NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC
September 27, 2007
Lindsey Wright
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Thanks for joining us after your round.  You're the leader in the clubhouse and you finished with 5-under for the day.  Talk about your round and how it felt to put at that together.   
 LINDSEY WRIGHT:  Yeah, it was great.  I played very, very solid in the front 9.  I birdied 3 and 4 and 6 and 8, so I was 4-under in the front 9.  Any time you start a tournament 4-under the start of the week it's great.  I'm pleased, because usually I've been the opposite.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  You were talking about your birdies.  Can we go over your scorecard?  Describe the birdies.   
 LINDSEY WRIGHT:  Okay.  I have trouble with this.  I pretty much -- the closest putt I holed for birdie would have been on 6, and that was probably ten feet.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  How far out were you?   
 LINDSEY WRIGHT:  I'm struggling with this.  That's hard.  I'd need my yardage book, and I don't have it with me.  Can I just have a look at that?  That kind of helps.   
 I played pretty solid, like I parred 1.  I had just a normal tee putt.  Actually, the first two holes.  So I had probably a 40-footer the first and a 35-footer on the 3rd in regulation, so I made two really good putts.  In birdying 3 it was probably 15 feet.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  What club did you use?   
 LINDSEY WRIGHT:  Maybe with a 7-iron.  I need my caddie.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Okay, 4.   
 LINDSEY WRIGHT:  4, yeah, I'm really struggling.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  If you could bring your yardage book up to the media center we can go over it.   
 LINDSEY WRIGHT:  Yeah, okay.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Let's open it up to questions for Lindsay.   
  
  Q.  You said you're usually a slow starter.  What was the difference today?  Was to the Pro-Am yesterday.  You seemed really focused even then.   
 LINDSEY WRIGHT:  Yeah, it was great.  I always have fun in the Pro-Am.  I just played -- I've been working on my game the last two weeks.  I had two weeks off, which I needed it.  I've got a new caddie this week, so there's a lot of new things.  I was just really relaxed and no pressure.   
 This year I've kind of put a lot pressure on myself, and particularly -- I've started usually par, bogey, bogey, so I'm 2-over after three holes.  Where today I was 3-under after four and I could establish some momentum.  When you're 5-under it's less stress so it's easier to go for shots.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 LINDSEY WRIGHT:  Yeah, I find it hard not to go for the flag.   
  
  Q.  Your career looks like it's been a steady progression over the last three years or so. Talk about this year and, are you ready to take that extra step and win one now?   
 LINDSEY WRIGHT:  Yeah, I'd love to win for sure.  I think it's pretty slow, and I'm pretty slow at everything I do.  So whether it's this year or hopefully next, yeah, just to be in contention is something that I love.  It's great.  You've got the crowd and you're playing with good players.   
 Lorena is what, 5-under?  She'll probably finish 6-under.  She's awesome.  I'd love to play with her and obviously win this championship.  But being day one and how scoring -- it's great scoring out there.  I mean, got keep making birdies.   
  
  Q.  What was your reaction to seeing Lorena on the leaderboard?   
 LINDSEY WRIGHT:  The usual every week.  Oh, there she is.  She's a great girl, a great player, and that's what you expect.  No. 1.   
  
  Q.  Talk about the course.  Seemed like the front 9 was playing tougher than the back looking at the scoring average.  But you, like you say, got off to a really good start on the front.   
 LINDSEY WRIGHT:  Yeah, if I remember what clubs I hit in, but I know I had like -- I made probably three 30-foot putts for birdie.  I hit some great putts.  And the greens are fantastic.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 LINDSEY WRIGHT:  Yeah, they're just awesome and rolling really well, not bumpy.  They're fast.   
  
  Q.  What's the plan for tomorrow, next couple of days, now that you're in this position?   
 LINDSEY WRIGHT:  Just stay focused.  I'm in a really great position.  Probably practice some more putting and my short game and practice what I've been working on in the last few weeks in my swing.  Get up tomorrow and do the same thing I did today.  I'm pretty casual.   
  
  Q.  Why did you switch caddies, and who is the new one?   
 LINDSEY WRIGHT:  Danny Huber.  Well, Daniel Huber, but we all call him Danny.  H-u-b-e-r.  And my other caddie is back in Australia for a while.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 LINDSEY WRIGHT:  Coming from England.  Actually really good because I live in Dallas, Texas, and that's really hot.  The humidity really game up this morning.  It was more the bugs yesterday that were a pain.  Couple people were struggling, but it's not too bad.  Just more drinking lots of fluid.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 LINDSEY WRIGHT:  Yeah, yeah.  You really have to.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 LINDSEY WRIGHT:  Yes.  I played at Bergdall, yes.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 LINDSEY WRIGHT:  Yeah, that's a good comparison.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 LINDSEY WRIGHT:  Yes.  It is a good -- that's why I can't remember any of my shots today.  The course, the greens, it is very similar.  It's kind of got that very linksy feel.  If the wind gets up this week, sure, it's going to be playing a lot different.  If it doesn't, then it's going play short.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Okay.  Thanks for your time.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT