PURE SILK-BAHAMAS LPGA CLASSIC
May 25, 2013
Lindsey Wright
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   All right.   We're here with Lindsay Wright who is the clubhouse leader right now after 7‑under par on 12 holes in the second round.   How does it feel?  
LINDSEY WRIGHT:   It's still sinking in right now.   Yeah, I just played faultless golf really.   I didn't make any mistakes.   I made a ton of putts.  
I hit a lot of shots close.   I think I probably had ‑‑ I made one birdie ‑‑ two birdies outside of 15 feet.   The rest were inside of 15 feet.   So I putted some solid ‑‑ hit the ball really solid, you know.   It was a great round.   I liked it.  
   
 Q.   Kind of a strange week to mentally go into, you know, a 12‑hole round, some delays, some changes to the tournament.   Just talk about your mentality heading into yesterday and then into today.   
LINDSEY WRIGHT:   Yeah.   Look, the way I see it, it's the same for everyone.   There's always complaining.   I mean you just can't have a tournament without that.   
And I think, you know, I think it's a shame because the course ‑‑ I love the course on Monday, Tuesday, it was brilliant.   It's a shame we're playing 12 holes, but I think for the sponsors and for the Bahamas and for PureSilk, I mean it's the right thing to do.   There's no doubt.   I mean we're here to play golf.   We're not here to party.   Do that early on in the week.  
So yeah, I'm happy to be playing.   I've been enjoying my golf.   So it's an opportunity to play on this course.   There's some beautiful holes coming in, and you know, it is what it is.  
   
 Q.   Just talk to me about the state of your game this year, how are you feeling?  
LINDSEY WRIGHT:   It's been really frustrating because I've been hitting the ball so well, and my putting has just been horrendous.   
It's like one week my putting is great, and I've hit a few bad shots here and there.   I just haven't put it together.   I think today and yesterday I really put my rounds from tee to green, it was just, you know, perfect and then on the greens I ‑‑ it's just starting to come together which is nice.   You know, I was getting frustrated there for a bit, and been trying to stay patient, and it's really ‑‑ it's encouraging going into the next few events to kind of have a couple of days like today and yesterday.  
   
 Q.   Lindsay, thank you so much.   
LINDSEY WRIGHT:   Thanks.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT