HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2007
Lindsey Wright
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN:  Lindsey, first of all congratulations on your Sunday round victory over Annika, a 3 & 2 victory.  Take us through the day.  You must be pretty excited right now. 
 LINDSEY WRIGHT:  Yeah, I don't think it's really sunk in.  I just got off the course five minutes ago.  I played great today.  Probably one of the best rounds I've had in a while in terms of staying relaxed, my momentum is good.  I lost the first hole, and then on the second hole I made a nice 20-foot birdie putt and that kind of set me off early.  I was just comfortable on the greens. 

 Q.  Can you talk about the prospects of playing 36 holes and what kind of demands that entails? 
 LINDSEY WRIGHT:  On Sunday? 

 Q.  Tomorrow, too. 
 LINDSEY WRIGHT:  Oh, tomorrow.  Yeah, it's tiring, it is.  And it's a tough course to walk.  There's a lot of -- it's very hilly.  But that's why you prepare for a tournament like this.  You don't just come in to play the first round.  The Match Play is a pretty big week.  It's going to be tiring to win the trophy, it doesn't matter at the end of the day. 

 Q.  You put so well all day and then on that final hole, Annika almost saves herself by making a 50-footer.  What's going through your mind as you're lining that up? 
 LINDSEY WRIGHT:  Actually I'm stood there and I'm thinking, "She's going to make this.  This is Annika Sorenstam and she's going to make it."  And I was like, "Oh, man.  Knew it." 
 I had that two-foot putt for par.  Like I said, I had been putting well and the greens are fantastic.  They are rolling really true.  And had a straight two-foot putt, so I wasn't nervous.  I was just really relaxed and I think that's why I beat her today.  I just played my own game and was just relaxed. 

 Q.  Would you also talk about the sequence on 15, you both had sort of identical -- I think you had three feet to the pin on 15 and she obviously rolled hers.  Can you take us through the sequence? 
 LINDSEY WRIGHT:  I couldn't believe it.  I was actually relieved that my putt stopped three feet below the hole.  Because I couldn't believe it when hers rolled that far down the hill. 
 This is my first time playing this course, but they had the LPGA event here a few years ago and I heard a lot of horror stories about some of the holes out here.  So that was the first time I really saw it today. 

 Q.  Last night and then this morning thinking about this match, did you have to calm yourself that you're just playing another player, or was that hard for you to do, playing someone like Annika? 
 LINDSEY WRIGHT:  Yeah, to be honest, I'm actually staying with Meaghan Francella's family and they are just like this big Italian New York family; and "Lindsey, what are you doing, come on!"  So I've been really distracted this week.  I haven't really had a lot of time to sit down and think. 
 But really coming into today, I've played a lot of match play back home in Australia, a ton of it.  I know how it works.  It's different to playing stroke play, because you've got to try and play the golf course rather than the other person. 
 So looking at Annika today, it was awesome to be playing against her.  I was excited, because she has been the No. 1 player in the world, and to win and beat her is awesome.  But there's still plenty of matches to go. 

 Q.  When did you come to know Meaghan and her family and get an invitation to stay locally like that? 
 LINDSEY WRIGHT:  I've known Meaghan for a few years.  I played on the Duramed FUTURES Tour and Meaghan was on there.  I really got to know her this year.  I met her dad, and he's a character.  Her mom's great.  They have been really nice and supportive.  But, yeah, she's a good girl. 

 Q.  When you do face the prospect of playing 36 holes, is the challenge more mental or more physical? 
 LINDSEY WRIGHT:  I think we're all physically going to be buggered after 18 tomorrow and then coming down playing 36.  It's going to affect everybody.  So I think the challenge is mentally you've just got to stay in the moment and keep fighting.  You've just got to fight it out.  It's like tennis really, shot for shot kind of thing. 

 Q.  Had you played Annika before in a match-play scenario? 
 LINDSEY WRIGHT:  No, I've never played. 

 Q.  And are you the only one staying with Meaghan or a group of you? 
 LINDSEY WRIGHT:  Just me. 
 MIKE SCANLAN:  Thank you very much for coming in and good luck on the weekend. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT