KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 30, 2012
Lindsey Wright
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   All right.   We'd like to welcome Lindsey Wright into the interview room.   Congratulations, another solid round today, 1‑under par 71.   Still up near the top of the leaderboard.   Pretty exciting to be going into the weekend of a major, in contention again.   Can you take me through your day to day and what your thoughts were out there? 
LINDSEY WRIGHT:   Yep.   I played pretty consistent golf today.   Probably played as good as yesterday, and I just didn't make as many putts.   I hit a great shot.   8 straight pars, and then on nine, hit a great shot that went in the hole for an eagle.   That really kick started the day. 
On number 10, I hit about a 30‑foot putt in for birdie, which is a nice birdie, and 11, 12, 13, 14, pretty standard pars again.   On 15, I hit my shot right then hit a terrible recovery shot, which wasn't much of a recovery shot, so I had to hit another shot on to the green, and three‑putted for double bogey on 15. 
Parred 16, hit a great shot in on 17, and missed the birdie putt.   I think it was about 7 feet, and then 18 a par.   So all in all, it was a good day.
THE MODERATOR:   Take me through that eagle on 9.   We all watched it.   What were your emotions when you hit the shot?   Were you expecting it to turn out as well as it did? 
LINDSEY WRIGHT:   I was just hoping it would stay on the green.   Because coming out of the rough, if it lands on the front, you're kind of buggered.   It's just going to shoot through to the back.   I didn't want to play with the palm trees at the back of the green because I'd been there before. 
So I didn't see it go in.   I just heard the screaming from some spectators.   So, yeah, it was really cool.   It was good to hear everybody go crazy, and to hole out for an eagle is always a bonus in a major in any tournament. 
THE MODERATOR:   Yesterday we got into talking about the issues that you had with depression and anxiety, and it's gotten a lot of positive reaction from people supporting you and saying how nice it is to hear someone share their story.   What have you heard since yesterday?   Have you gotten a chance to hear anything from friends or family or other players out here about it? 
LINDSEY WRIGHT:   Yeah, I check my emails every day, and I had about six hours to spare this morning.   So I was checking some emails and Facebook.   It was really good positive responses from people.   It was encouraging.   A couple of people who I played golf with and I know from playing golf came out and said I feel the same way and I'm struggling right now.   It's encouraging to have somebody like yourself say something. 
Yeah, it's nice to know that it's going to help somebody else by saying how I felt and maybe come to terms with their own personal problems. 
THE MODERATOR:   As you head into the weekend, there is Yani once again at the top of the leaderboard.   What does it take?   We keep asking people is she beatable?   What does it take to challenge her? 
LINDSEY WRIGHT:   Yeah, she's a force to be reckoned with, to be honest.   She's an amazing golfer.   She's won 3 out of 5 events now.   But as history has shown us in majors, it really, unless she's got a 7 or 8 shot lead coming down the last nine holes, it's anyone's game.   I mean it's the pressure of a major.   If anything, there is probably more pressure on her than anyone else, because it is Yani, and we all expect her to win. 
I think it's great to have her up there again.   But it's also great to be able to challenge her and try to give her a run for her money.

Q.   When you teed off, did you know what Yani had done?   Had you paid any attention to that at all, of what her morning round was? 
LINDSEY WRIGHT:   Yeah, I could see on the leaderboard.

Q.   Does that necessarily put a little pressure on you or is it just Friday and you don't care about it? 
LINDSEY WRIGHT:   Not really, no.   I don't feel any pressure.   Because if I'm starting to feel pressure and it's only day two, I'm wasting my time.   At the end of the day everyone's going to keep going up the leaderboard.   If anything, people really start to panic and stress out on the last nine holes on Sunday.   But up until the last nine holes on Sunday, my intentions and every other players to try to make as many birdies as possible because we know that Yani is not going to start holding back and getting nervous. 

Q.   Yet you went out and tied her at 8‑under at one point.   The shot on 15 looked like you were trying to keep it low, and it really stayed low. 
LINDSEY WRIGHT:   Oh, it was a terrible shot.   It was a terrible shot.   I think I just lost concentration, and it just goes to show you can't lose concentration at this level at these tournaments, because two shots are just basically‑‑ or maybe one shot making a double bogey there was just unfortunate, you know? 

Q.   Did you get a little peak at the leaderboard when you were tied with Yani?   Did you see it?   Did you know that you had tied her? 
LINDSEY WRIGHT:   Yeah, I think so.   I think I had seen it.

Q.   What does that feel like to see a leaderboard in a major with your name on top? 
LINDSEY WRIGHT:   Oh, it's great.   At that point I thought I think I'm going to make the cut.   So I was like, yeah, this is good.

Q.   I know there are predictions of some wind tomorrow.   How does that suit your game?   Do you mind playing in the wind? 
LINDSEY WRIGHT:   I'm not‑‑ I don't like playing in wind, rain or snow.   I like days like this, to be honest with you.   But if I'm in the wind, then I'm pretty confident.   I'm hitting the ball well right now.   It's just a matter of controlling my attitude and the process of hitting shots and not getting quick.   Once you start getting fast with your routines, then you make mistakes.

Q.   There are people whose attitudes would have gone south after that double bogey.   How important was it that par on the next hole, and how did you composure self or overcome that bad hole? 
LINDSEY WRIGHT:   Yeah, it's not like I tried to miss a five‑foot putt, you know or wanted to hit it right.   So every shot I hit, I put a hundred percent in. 
Going into the last three holes in my mind there were three more birdie opportunities, 16, 17, and 18.   So the double was a little bit of a setback.   But in saying that, I had an eagle on the 9th hole.   I put no pressure on my game, so I didn't feel stressed out at all.   I just thought, okay, bugger it.   Just move on.

Q.   You have quite a character on your bag in Mardi.   How does she help relax you?   I know she has kind of the same mindset as you of this not being the be all, end all. 
LINDSEY WRIGHT:   She's exhausting.   She really is so funny.   I don't think I've stopped‑‑ I'm constantly laughing.   She's great.   I've known Mardi for a long, long time.   She's fun to work with.   She's a great caddie.   Really is.   We just have a laugh.   We get along really well. 
For me, I really start to focus when I pull the club out, do my routine, hit the shot, and then, okay, what are you doing for dinner or what happened last night.   I don't like to‑‑ I'm not always about golf.   That's why we work well together, because she's not either.   But once we're doing the job, we're doing it 110%.   So it's a really good balance with her.   But, yeah, she's constantly making me laugh. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT