SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC
June 3, 2011
Lindsey Wright
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   LINDSEY WRIGHT: From start to finish, but you'd expect that in these conditions. It's not an easy golf course.  
  
  Q. Are they drying the greens out faster?  
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: Yeah. On 17 the guys were coming out, hosing the greens off. So they were pretty nice, pretty fast.   
 So really nice this morning. And then obviously as the day goes on, it kind of goes on, slowed down a little bit, got a bit bumpy. But overall it was pretty good.  
  
  Q. Was it just club selection?   
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: I think it's just tough playing in the wind. And a lot of the girls haven't played in over a month. So it's just kind of coming back into tournament conditions, and a little bit more nervousness, and you take a little bit more time. But then you would expect it here with wind, tough conditions.  
  
  Q. (Off microphone)  
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: Yes, it's great. I'm really, really happy with it.   
  
  Q. What did you do -- was there a part of your game that was working today? What did you do well today? Because a lot of people are struggling out there.   
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: I putted well. I think 3-under after the first nine, which is a tough nine. I thought the back nine would play actually easier, but it actually played tough coming down the stretch.   
 I just kept the ball in play and made some really solid putts. Made four birdies today and I think I had, what, two bogeys.   
  
  Q. It's not just keeping it in play, but keeping it in --  
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: Yeah. Fortunately I didn't get into any trouble. Just trying to keep that same play the next few days.  
  
  Q. Are you normally a good player in the wind? Did you grow up in an area --  
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: It's hit and miss, to be honest. It's about your short game. If your short game is good in the because you're going to miss greens. That's inevitable. Short game, that's the big thing. It's something I've been working on. It's been really good.  
  
  Q. Any good saves today?   
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: I don't think so. I don't think -- no. Just had one 3-putt. And, I don't know, four birdies. I'm not good at remembering what happened five minutes ago. I made some really good 2-putts. So bogeyed 13 and 9.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT