U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 10, 2009
Lindsey Wright
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Low round today so far. You were right there. Are you happy with it?
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: Yeah. It was a great round. To be honest, I thought if I could have even or 1-over, keep it around even par today, I would be in good stead. And I hit a terrible shot on the 9th, hit the worst shot I've ever hit on a par-3 into the wood there and made an awesome bogey and nearly lost it and kept it going and was 1-over going into the back 9, and I'm really happy with the way I played today. It was good.

 Q. What is it about that 9th hole? Was that a bad shot for you?
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: That was a terrible shot. I should have really walked away and regrouped, but I didn't. It was a really tough hole anyway. It's about 194 yards to the front of the green, so you're hitting a 5-wood. Yeah, it was just a terrible shot for me.

 Q. You hit the pin on 17. 
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: I didn't see it. Someone said it was close. I hit a really good shot there. I hit a 7-iron.

 Q. The managers are bringing out the best in you. Can you talk about that?
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: Yeah. Just hitting the fairway and driving really well at the moment, and yesterday I wasn't driving so well. So I was a little edgy coming into today, because I know you've gotta hit the fairways here. 
 And as far as putting, it's really tough out there. The long putts just takes so much concentration. And I managed to make some really 25-footers today to birdie, and that really helps a lot, just trying to not make bogey and making pars. 

 Q. There seemed to be a lot of wind out there. What's the major defense for this course today and keeping this course from rolling and getting a few under?
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: You've gotta really leave it in the right part of the green. Like I was saying to my caddie, 16 and 17 are really tough today. 
 16 was very difficult. I hit -- if you miss the fairway, you really want to be below the hole. But then if you hit it up to the hole, it runs all the way back so you'll have a 40-foot putt with two tees to putt over, and that's what I had. And that hole was quite scarey today, and 17 you really have to aim right of the flag and there's only like four or five yards right of that green with a fly shot. And if you miss it like I did, I had a downhill kind of slider, so those are two tough holes.

 Q. Second place at McDonald's, does that make you more determined, more confident, more frustrated or all of those things?
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: I was disappointed. I wanted to win. I've been playing well there the last four years. And second, I was really happy with my results and how I played in the final round. And I didn't like lose the tournament. Anna played fantastic golf. And it was encouraging in the same way, by the same token, to be in that position. Anna just played really well, and that's what I'm hoping to do this week. I can draw upon the two Majors I've played well in this year and utilize that experience this week. 

 Q. What would it mean to win this tournament here, though?
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: What would it mean? It would be awesome. Yeah, it would be awesome.

 Q. Do you know those two girls that are in the crazy hats and Aussie outfits?
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: I don't. I probably should know them. I saw them yesterday. Someone said they were American. I'm like, oh, really.

 Q. Someone said Karrie Webb saw them. 
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: Yeah. I think I do know them. I saw them briefly. With all the makeup, I couldn't figure out who was who.

 Q. Lindsey, how great is the golf between the setups you play tournament to tournament, in saying coming here to the Open setup. Is it a huge gap or have the courses gotten tougher?
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: It's a massive gap. I was just saying to the girls, actually Suzann and I were talking, I'm like it's a shock when you come out here because you don't have time to take a mental break. 
 You've gotta be on the ball every shot. So it is a bit of a shock. The course is just phenomenal. It's long. You've gotta have every shot in the bag. Putting well, driving well. It's just -- that's how it should be. That's the U.S. Open.

 Q. Do you think it'll play the same this afternoon?
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: Yeah. I think so. I'm in a good position right now. Like I said, if I'm 3-over and I left some shots out there today, but I finished 1-under today and 2-under going into the weekend, that's a great position.

 Q. Three Aussies in the Top 12 or 13 now in the world right now, how big a deal is that?
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: I think it's awesome. It's great for Australia, women's golf in Australia. I think it's great.

 Q. Lindsey, a 14-year-old, Alexis, I think she's right there where you are. What does that say about her, to play that well?
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: I think it's pretty phenomenal, to be 14 and in the Top 10 of a major championship. I mean even if you're 18, regardless. She's not a professional golfer. It's pretty awesome. 

 Q. Do you have any thoughts on the exemption categories into this Open? There's been a bit of talk that maybe the Rolex ranking should be considered. Do you have any thoughts on that?
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: I haven't really thought about it. I couldn't really say. I'd have to look over it to make an opinion.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT