MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 14, 2009
Lindsey Wright
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   LINDSEY WRIGHT: Bogey on 7. I hit a 6-iron 35 feet short and 3-putted.   
 8, I hit an awesome 35-foot putt for birdie.   
 9, I hit a rescue in to 15 feet and made birdie.   
 12, I hit a 6-iron to about ten feet right of the flag and made birdie.   
 16, I hit a little sand wedge, knock-down shot, to about 17 feet for birdie.   
 17, I hit a 5-iron off the tee and it leapt over the green, chipped down and made bogey from about it ten feet.   
 JASON TAYLOR: Thanks for coming in, Lindsey. Nice week for you, finishing runner-up at the McDonald's LPGA Championship, second major of the year. If you would just tell us a little bit about the week.   
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: The week's been amazing. Just been a really great week. In terms of my golf, I played -- probably out of any tournament, this week it really came together. I played really consistent and held it together mentally and physically, which is something I've not been able to do as well in the past.   
 But I think with experience I've managed to follow on from Nabisco. I think I finished fourth there, and was in contention. So I learned a lot from that experience and coming into this week.  
 It's just awesome to contend in the back nine. I tried. I left it all out there really. I played really good golf today. A couple of shots didn't go as planned. I could have hit it a little closer. Like on 15, the par 5, I wish -- just a sloppy shot, really. Yeah, I had a good week, a really good week.   
  
  Q. How would you describe the way Anna played, especially under this kind of pressure first time around?   
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: I don't even think you can. It was amazing. I said to her, "That was bloody awesome." It really was. Under that amount of pressure, not being in that position before and in a major and being a rookie? You can't get any better than that. She's a phenomenal player, and then to hit that shot on 18, if that was me, I think probably would have wedged it around the green.   
 She was great. She really didn't falter today. She didn't show the nerves at all.   
 My caddie and I were talking, because it was almost like a little bit of a match-play event coming down the stretch. I thought she was really holding it together, and I thought, she's not giving this championship away; I have to go for it. Unbelievable golf. Really good golf.   
  
  Q. Did the environment feel any different because it was a major championship; it didn't seem to bother the two of you at all.   
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: No, not really. I feel the only thing that changes between a major and a normal tournament is the golf course; it's a lot tougher. You have to hit the shots. There's so many different shots you need to play under -- obviously the pressure is what you put on yourself; that's the way I look at it.   
 And I just love these -- I love really difficult golf courses, fast greens. I like where you've basically got to hit fairways and greens in major, and it's no different from any other week.   
  
  Q. I wonder when you got it down, the lead was down to one, what was going through your mind, and did you think at that point, maybe she is going to falter a little bit?   
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: Yeah, I can't even remember what hole it was. I really was focusing on staying calm myself. Because you get around -- I got to 13, and that putt from there was pretty clutch I thought, to make par, and she made bogey.   
 To be honest, I really wasn't thinking about her score and where she was at. I was thinking about how many holes I had left to play and how many birdies -- birdieing every hole. Because I mean, I don't think you can go into it saying, well, she's going to make mistakes. Otherwise you start hanging in there and you start playing defensive, and my game plan and something I'm working on is just to be aggressive and play my own game, which is aggressive.   
 JASON TAYLOR: Thank you, Lindsey.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT