MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 13, 2009
Lindsey Wright
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   LINDSEY WRIGHT: 9, I was just off the side of the green and chipped down to about ten feet and made bogey.   
 10, I hit a 9-iron to about ten feet.   
 11, I hit a 9-iron again to four feet.   
 13, I was in the green-side bunker and chipped out to about seven feet and missed the putt to make bogey.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: So today has been a long day, you're mentally tired and you're coming back tomorrow morning; how do you prepare?   
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: I've done it before but I can't remember the last time. Yeah, it just -- what time is it, 20 past eight? So I'll probably go back at eight and go to bed, to get up at 4:30 or 5:00 or whatever time. So it's kind of a -- yeah, I don't really have much to prepare, just kind of get ready for tomorrow. Hopefully it doesn't rain tomorrow.   
  
  Q. How did you occupy yourself during the delay?  
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: I left my I pod back at the house. I brought it every other day except today, I needed it.   
 I just sat there and talked to random people, not really doing anything. It kind of went quick.   
  
  Q. Were you looking out the window going, gee, it's not raining, why don't we play?  
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: I could have kept going. And then when we came in, and then I saw the rainy and thought, oh, this is -- it's not looking good. But the course is in good shape. When we went back out, it wasn't affected too much by the rain.  
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Is there some kind of advantage to just going out and playing tomorrow and not really having time to think about it?   
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: I think so, yeah. I mean, obviously there's a disadvantage not finishing today. But it just goes all day, so it's not like -- I mean, I would love to be sleeping in tomorrow. But the day, it's going to be a big day regardless. So I I've been waking up at 4:30 every morning, anyway, so just another day really.  
  
  Q. Did your experience at Kingsmill come into play at all during the course of the day?  
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: Yeah, it always does. Any time I have a good finish, I always draw upon what I've done in the past and what I've learned. I'm always learning. And it's just a matter of putting yourself in these positions really. Just going with it, and that's what I did today. I stayed patient and was fairly relaxed.   
 Even after the delay, like I've been pretty relaxed, because at the end of the day, you know, there's good players up there on the leaderboard, and it comes down to Sunday every week.   
 You know, it's a big one tomorrow.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Thank you, Lindsey, have a good rest of the night and good luck tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT