NHL ALL-STAR WEEKEND
January 25, 2008
Kris Letang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  I'm sure Kris Letang is pretty excited to be here as well.  From the Pittsburgh Penguins.  He played last night.  I'm sure a lot of these guys are feeling a little fatigued.  But at the same time, the adrenaline kicks in when you get to rub shoulders with the best.  How excited are you to be here? 
 KRIS LETANG:  I'm excited right now.  It's very nice to be here with all these stars and Young Stars right now.  But we're going to be with all these stars like Lecavalier and all these guys.  So it's pretty exciting. 

 Q.  Suffice to say Vinny was a favorite of yours as you were making your way to the NHL? 
 KRIS LETANG:  Yeah, yeah, for sure.  I mean I was a big fan of him.  I know him a little bit right now.  I'm talking to him during the summer and sometimes like that. 
 You learn some, like I've been practicing with him during the summer for like training and all this stuff.  And he learned me some stuff.  Kind of good for me. 

 Q.  I think it's appropriate that you're here, because I think your career really took off this year and gained notoriety by you being really good at the shootout.  And you know this All-Star Game is kind of -- all the talk is about the skills competition, and what it's going to be like when the shootout kind of adopts a slam dunk type contest atmosphere to it.  Are you looking forward to seeing that and wondering what these guys are going to be able to accomplish? 
 KRIS LETANG:  Yeah, I think it's always exciting to see shootouts. 

 Q.  How did you get so good at it? 
 KRIS LETANG:  I don't know.  I never really practiced.  I just go there and put a move in my head and I'm just going there with no idea except scoring a goal.  Just help the team to win.  But I don't know.  I try to take what the goalie gives to me.  Most of the time I put a move in my head and just do it.  I don't want to change my mind. 

 Q.  How do you feel your team's going to be able to cope without Crosby for the next little bit? 
 KRIS LETANG:  I think we have a lot to prove.  I know it's a big part of our team, but it's not only one player, it's a team.  And we're going to have to work hard and stick all together. 

 Q.  You have done so this year, and the Atlantic Division is still up for grabs.  As you know it's going to be a great finish.  Enjoy the weekend.  It will be a thrill for you, I'm sure.  Kris Letang of the Pittsburgh Penguins.  When he comes back, Brandon Dubinsky will join us. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT