NHL STANLEY CUP FINAL: SHARKS v PENGUINS
June 6, 2016
Kris Letang
Olli Maatta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Olli, I think it was late in the first period you looked to block a shot from Brent Burns, looked to be in some pain. Obviously you continued on and played. Did that have any effect on you and how are you right now?  
OLLI MAATTA: No, just a bruise. Obviously you take those. Fine. I feel fine and ready to go tonight.   
   
 Q. Kris, the fact that they're not calling a lot of penalties out there, how does that make you guys feel? Is that an advantage, a disadvantage, good thing, bad thing?  
KRIS LETANG: I mean, if it's fair for both teams, can't really control that. We only can control what we're about to do on the ice.   
If they call only one a game for each team, it's fair game. No, I don't think it give us any advantage to anyone.   
   
 Q. Kris, on the few power play chances you are getting, what needs to be better for the group moving forward?  
KRIS LETANG: I mean, I think we have to simplify. I don't think we got into the zone and executed plays, put the puck at the net, put them under pressure on their PK. I think once we get in, move the puck quick, make sure we simplify things.   
Obviously the ice is not the greatest either. Try to simplify things.   
   
 Q. Olli, Patrik Laine spoke earlier today, said you're an inspiration to a lot of Finns. What is it like for you to see so many Finns in the top prospects?  
OLLI MAATTA: Well, I haven't. First time meeting him. Seems like a great young guy coming up. It means a lot. It means we're doing the right things back home, developing young players. You can see, we're going to have a bright future. It's definitely inspiring to those guys coming up there and being ready to play on a big stage like this.   
   
 Q. Olli, had you played with Donskoi before? What are your impressions of him as a player?  
OLLI MAATTA: I played him briefly in Buffalo, juniors. Don't know him that well, know. Obviously he's a great player, really good with the puck. He has a great offensive instincts.   
   
 Q. (Question regarding playing the same game over a seven‑game series.)  
KRIS LETANG: I think we have to do different adjustments out there, especially after Game3. For sure our system and what we're built to be successful is about speed, about quickness, the transition, the tightness of our defense, unit of five.   
For sure we have to keep playing the same way, but obviously we have to make those little adjustments that's going to allow us to get to another level.   
   
 Q. Olli, I think the puck was bouncing on you guys a lot. It took a crazy hop. As defensemen, how do you adjust to that?  
OLLI MAATTA: I think it's just keeping it simple. Obviously there's a couple crazy bounces it took last game. But just and keep it simple.   
It's the same for both teams. I don't think it really matters that much that way. But just be aware of it. When you get the puck, just make that strong play. As I said many times, keep it simple.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT