NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BRUINS v PENGUINS
June 4, 2013
Kris Letang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Is there anything that (inaudible)?  
KRIS LETANG:   Yeah, of course.   Forget about that game, obviously.   All the guys see what was the result, so we don't need to talk about it, and we have to turn the page and make sure we get ready for Game 3.  
   
 Q.   Are you a guy that takes‑‑ when you're down 2‑0 for motivation or do you throw it away and start it like it's a game all on its own?   
KRIS LETANG:   Yeah, it should be like that.   Every game you play in the Playoffs it's a must‑win, so if you win the first one you always focus on winning the second one, and that's how you get four in a row.   But right now our main focus is winning the next game.   
   
 Q.   How much of it is what you guys are not doing well and how much of it is what they're doing well?   
KRIS LETANG:   I think it's more what we're not doing.   We're not doing anything good at all.   They're a patient team.   If I have to say something about their team, they're really patient.   Like we saw in the game, they only forecheck us, they're just waiting for us to make mistakes, and we actually gave them what they got, and we have to be better with the puck, without the puck, defensively, in all areas of the game.   I think we have to look at ourselves in the mirror and make sure we erase what happened and go from there.  
   
 Q.   Do you just feel like you have to attack Rask any differently, any more pucks on the net or anything?  
KRIS LETANG:   I don't think so.   We have many scoring chances in all games, it's just a question of you can't only like go one way and just try for a chance and after that it comes back your way.   You have to grind him down, make sure you play deep, you have a good cycle, you have good offensive shift and try to keep them there.   
   
 Q.   Against the Islanders and Senators I think there was only two periods you were behind, you were either in the lead or behind.   In this series you've been pretty much behind both games, so how much does that change your style of play?  
KRIS LETANG:   It shouldn't change.   They're waiting for mistakes.   That's what their team does.   We have to be aware of the way we manage the puck, the way we play offensively, making sure we don't have to come back with odd numbers, and go from there.   Like I said, there's nothing to change.   We didn't play good.   We don't deserve to win any of those games, so just have to go back to what we do well.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT