NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CAVALIERS v PISTONS
May 28, 2007
Drew Gooden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Analyze Game 3.  Obviously the headline in the paper says "It's a series now."  What do you have to do to even it up now and win Game 4?   
 DREW GOODEN:  I think bring the same intensity that we brought in Game 3.  I think that's what helped us come back in the series, and I think that intensity is only going to help us throughout the series.   
  
  Q.  It was a great effort, everything that LeBron showed through the Game 1, can he continue to do that?   
 DREW GOODEN:  Yes, he can.  Yes, he can.  If he stays mentally focused and ready out there, he's capable of doing anything.  We need those types of games out of him for us to advance.   
  
  Q.  It was a great spurt in the beginning, you've had those, but the third quarter seems to be causing problems for you.  Why?   
 DREW GOODEN:  I think that's been our Achilles' heel the last two years I've been here.  I don't know what it is.  Our third quarter, we give up a lot of third quarters and lose a lot of third quarters and end up making it up in the fourth quarter.   
  
  Q.  This has been such a great rebounding team, yet you personally have struggled the first couple of games, what's the key to rebounding?   
 DREW GOODEN:  Just having the passion to really do it.  I think me as an individual, it's tough getting down there for a rebound when you've got a guy that's shooting threes out on the perimeter like Rasheed.  We've got other guys having to go down there and mix it up sometimes.  So it's the passion.   
  
  Q.  When you got that big rebound at the end of Game 3, can you do that all the time?   
 DREW GOODEN:  Yeah, I can do that all the time, that's a piece of cake.  I just have to be in the right place at the right time but still alert that I'm guarding Rasheed Wallace and he's at that three-point line.   
  
  Q.  They're all good rebounders but that ball had your name on it.   
 DREW GOODEN:  Yeah, I needed it.  I needed it bad.  I wanted it.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT