SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
November 3, 2015
Jenna Bush Hager
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
An Interview With:   
JENNA BUSH HAGER   
 Q.  With Jenna Bush Hager here at the Sanderson Farms Championship.  First off, why was it important for you to be a part of this event?  
JENNA BUSH HAGER: Yes.  Well, first of all, it's the first time I've ever been part of an event where my husband said, take tons of pictures.  I was speaking to women today about the charity aspect of this tournament, which is really great.  Jackson, Mississippi is a community that gives back.  And so I'm thrilled to be here.  But I have a husband who watches golf all the time and a father that watch golf all the time, so they were just thrilled that I could be part of it.   
 Q.  And touching on the family connection, what impact has golf had on down the generations and now to you?  
JENNA BUSH HAGER: Well, I love to watch it.  It reminds me of being a little girl on Sundays and weekends, cuddling up with my dad with golf in the background.  I watched my grandfather and my father play it their whole lives.  And now I said earlier that most people do Fantasy Football, but my husband does Fantasy Golf, which maybe you know of because you work for the Golf Channel.   
 Q.  I was going to say, can you say golfchannel.com also?  
JENNA BUSH HAGER: Oh, golfchannel.com.  It is incessant because there is a tournament all the time, as you very well know.  So it's fun.  I think it's a great sport.  I think it's a sport that gives back.  My dad is part of the First Tee program, and I've watched some of those events, so I'm happy to be here.   
 Q.  And speaking of a little girl, you had an addition to the family a couple of months ago.  What's it been like for you?  
JENNA BUSH HAGER: Yeah.  I have a two-month-old poppy.  She's named after my grandpa.  He went by poppy as a little boy.  That was his nickname.  So we just wanted to honor him because we think he's a pretty great guy.   
I actually played golf when I was nine months pregnant with my husband.  It was not pretty.  It's hard to get your arms around that large buck.  But she's really terrific, and we're so happy.   
 Q.  Well, congratulations, and thanks for the time.  You were talking a little bit about -- a lot about education, and of, course with Mississippi being sometimes maligned as a state that lacks in education, what would you say is the most important thing that the teacher in the classroom can do to make a difference to her students?  
JENNA BUSH HAGER: Well, I think the first thing is -- and this is for any new mom or dad out there, that the first teachers are parents.  So we see this huge gap between kids whose parents read to them from the day they're born to the kids who don't get that.  And so I think if you're watching and you're a new parent, know how much you can do by being that first teacher, by reading to your kids, by showing them books.   
And then for teachers, you know, it's hard.  It's a hard job.  I think that's, again, I guess more for society, appreciate our teachers.  Know that it's not an easy thing that they're doing.  I taught for five years, and it was hard.  And I think our culture thinks -- I remember somebody said, oh, how cute; you teach.  But there's nothing cute about it.  It's hard and it's intellectually stimulating, and moments want to make you cry and then laugh.  It's one of the hardest jobs that our country has.  So I think as a country we should appreciate teachers more.   
 Q.  This event means a lot.  It raises a lot of money for a great cause.  Just kind of tell me what it means to you to be here.  
JENNA BUSH HAGER: I love being here in Jackson, and it does raise money for the great children's hospital you guys have in your area.  I get to go in a minute and meet some of the kids, which I can't wait.  And so I think that it's really fun for me to be in a community like Jackson, where women -- this is a women's lunch -- support the great institutions you have.  This is one of the best children's hospitals in your state.  And so I'm thrilled to be here.  And it's fun.  There's a little golf on the side.   
 Q.  What's your impression of Mississippi?  
JENNA BUSH HAGER: Mississippi is beautiful.  I've been here before.  I haven't been to Jackson, so right when we landed, I drove through your downtown because I wanted to look at all the old architecture, and it's a really pretty place.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT