ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE BASEBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 22, 2014
Danny Hall
Ben Parr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  Duke: 6  
Georgia Tech: 0  
  
THE MODERATOR:   Joining us is Georgia Tech, Coach Danny Hall, and Ben Parr.   Coach?   
COACH HALL:   Two words, Drew Van Orden.   Maybe that's three words I dont know, he pretty much had our number, we couldn't make adjustments at the plate and that's the story of the game.   We had a couple of chances early.   I thought not getting a bunt down when we had 1st and 2nd, nobody out early kinda hurt us, and then we bounced right into a double play and then late we had, you know, couple of guys on with some chances but didn't‑‑ couldn't solve him, so he was really the story of the game for me.  
I thought we pitched well, gave up a couple of home run balls but only gave up 2 runs and most of the time we're going to be in that ballgame if our starter only gives up a cup of runs.   Gotta tip your cap to Drew Van Orden.   
   
 Q.   Coach, how much did Drew have to do with playing three important games in three days for you?   
COACH HALL:   I don't want to say that was the reason.   We didn't have a lot of energy today, so, you know, maybe that was a factor.   That's probably my fault.   
Hopefully we can rest tonight, have some energy and play well tomorrow against Clemson.   
   
 Q.   Danny, what did he throw?   
COACH HALL:   Breaking balls.   He got very few outs on his fast ball, most of his outs were on is breaking ball.   We were chasing balls that were not strikes.   I told our team, it's tough enough as it is if your trying hit strikes and when you start chasing as many balls out of the zone as we did, it's extremely hard to hit.   I thought their shortstop made all the good plays, and, you know, that's their credit.   Arden Pabst probably hit two of the hardest balls we had hit and one was to the deepest part of the park and the center fielder ran it down, and then he hit another line drive right to the center fielder his last at‑bat, but other than that we didn't too many balls hard off him.   
   
 Q.   The home run ball, especially the one to the right, did you notice if the wind was helping?   
BEN PARR:   He put a good swing on the change‑up, I was behind in the count.   He's a strong kid and looked like the wind was blowing out and it just managed to get over.   
   
 Q.   With the wind blowing like that, do you change your approach on the mound at all?   
BEN PARR:   Not really.   I kind of trust what Coach Howell calls for me and it's on his pitch calls so I knew I had faith in him and I made the pitches he called for.   Really didn't change the pitches up.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, guys.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT