ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE BASEBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2017
Danny Hall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Miami - 6, Georgia Tech - 5   
DANNY HALL: If you told us -- only gave up one run, so we would take that.  On the flip side of that, their bullpen did the same thing, and I thought -- I may say his name wrong, but Cabezas, was outstanding, and we really couldn't do anything with him.  Six innings, ten strikeouts two, walks, no hits.  He's got really good slider and he had a fastball that was kind of going both sides and has a lot of movement, and we just -- we couldn't generate anything against him.   
So you tip your cap to him.  But proud of the way our bullpen threw.  It's a shame Zac Ryan comes out of there with a loss but you know, somebody had to win the game.   
 Q.  What's your thoughts on the format --  
DANNY HALL: Yeah, we knew that.  I don't know, I mean, we talked about it long and hard in our coaches' meeting.  There's very little -- probably once you get from six to 12, 14, there's very little separation sometimes between those teams.   
So to give two more teams the chance to get into post-season play was kind of the thought, and maybe, we'll just bring it up since North Carolina last year finished 11th, didn't get in the ACC Tournament, had a great RPI, so that kind of eliminated them from post-season play.  Even though they were very close to being ten.  So probably a lot of that discussion.   
Probably the negatives on it, for the teams that are going to play next week, potentially you could only throw two of your starters, so your third starter is not even getting a chance to pitch, and I'm not sure that's the best way to prepare.   
Our league's an outstanding league.  The teams particularly at the top are all in my opinion capable of winning the National Championship.  But that was the thought process.   
It's kind of a long answer but we talked about it long and hard, and you know, I've been in that play-in game.  We wanted to eliminate play-in games, as well.  So in fairness to teams and try to eliminate a play-in game, this is what we came up with.   
It will make the Miami/Wake game, it's going to be just like this one; the winner is moving into the championship.   
 Q.  What do you think about the ACC Tournament being here in Louisville this year?  
DANNY HALL: I think it's great.  It's a great ballpark, and I think there's great baseball fans here in Louisville.  Weather was beautiful today.  So in my opinion, I think our guys were excited to play in a different park, and so I have nothing but good things to say.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT