GREEN BAY PACKERS MEDIA CONFERENCE
January 16, 2008
Mike McCarthy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q.  How have you worked with Brett Favre to play a more controlled game and how would you access his season overall? 
 MIKE McCARTHY:  I think he had a great season.  I thought he played extremely well against Seattle.  I just think he's doing a great job of running the offense.  We've asked him to do some things.  We've asked him to do more of things that he hasn't -- that had to do a lot of in the past.  I'm talking more spread offense and taking advantage of at the line of scrimmage situation. 
 So he's done a very good job managing that and you have to give a lot of credit to Tom Clements in the quarterback room and the way they operate, and a lot of credit to the teammates. 
 I think we're better in the offense, everybody has a better understanding and leads a lot more production. 

 Q.  What do you give to the way you guys played against the Bears and the bad weather and the forecast for this weekend?  What is it you try and tell your players they have to do better? 
 MIKE McCARTHY:  I thought the problem we had in Chicago was clearly focus, and our fundamentals were very poor.  And you could apply some of that to the focus.  That's been addressed.  We've hit it again in a small sense this morning. 
 I thought wind factored very much in that game.  And hopefully it won't factor this week. 

 Q.  Do you think you lost focus because of the conditions? 
 MIKE McCARTHY:  We didn't play well fundamentally.  I can't get inside everybody's brain.  We looked like a team that was very cold and the Chicago Bears did not look like they were very cold and that's something that we definitely need to learn from. 

 Q.  You said the other night you wouldn't game plan based on weather.  So do you have a plan B or what happens if you show up on Sunday and all of a sudden -- 
 MIKE McCARTHY:  I think what I said, part of the weather is part of your plan.  I know people have, quote, bad weather plans on their call sheets.  In my experience, that's more for a lot of rain, wind is something that factors in your decisions there, factor in the way we called the game in Chicago because there's only certain things you can do in the wind, just to look at the way the game went when they played on defense.  They just squatted down at 5 or 10.  Those are things -- wind and rain will affect more than just cold, from our experience. 
 But that's all part of your base plan.  So, I mean, we're ready for the weather, to answer your question. 

 Q.  You seemed to enjoy playing in the snow on Saturday.  It wasn't windy.  Is it a confidence boost? 
 MIKE McCARTHY:  Yes, we'll take it as a confidence boost.  Saturday was a winter wonderland, 30 degrees, no wind 30 degrees, snow.  That's a nice day in Green Bay, Wisconsin.  That's what it's supposed to be.  As you remember, as a kid playing in the backyard when it's zero degrees, windy, it's different.  It's a totally different atmosphere, and that's what we have to prepare for. 

 Q.  As a head coach in this situation for the first time, leading a young group of players, how reassuring is it to know that the quarterback has been through this situation many times even though not so much in the recent past? 
 MIKE McCARTHY:  Very reassuring.  I think the playoffs is a lot about your quarterback, the quarterback's performance.  If you look at the performance just this past week and other quarterbacks, it has a lot to do with the success of the football team.  I've always felt that.  It will continue as you move through the Super Bowl.  If you look at the Super Bowl winners, you can almost directly draw a parallel to the quarterbacks waiting for that particular game. 
 So quarterback play is huge in playoff football.  And it's big when we play in this type of environment at Lambeau, and we're blessed to have a quarterback that's played 17 years here. 

 Q.  Last week it was kind of new for your players, all with the media and podium and stuff.  How did they handle it; how did you handle it?  And now it only ramps up this week, how do you think it will go this week? 
 MIKE McCARTHY:  All the feedback I've received and from what I notice, I thought they handled it very well.  We talked about it again as a football team today.  We have many topics we talk about every Wednesday.  More this week than last week.  They continue to grow as you move forward, as we're aware of. 
 They're a focused group.  They illustrated that today at practice.  We had a good practice.  We have some things we need to clean up.  But every indication is we're focused on the game and that's all that matters in our professional life right now. 

 Q.  What enabled you to stay in front of the team or begin talking Super Bowl as a goal this year, you didn't do it last year?  What enabled you -- what gave you the confidence and the belief they were ready to hear that kind of message and believe it? 
 MIKE McCARTHY:  I've been talking about the Super Bowl since the day -- since the first day I stood up here.  So the first overlay I ever put up in front of our team was to win the Super Bowl and the toughest challenge we'll have as a team is the hymn of success.  And that's something I put in front of them as a reminder every so often when it needs to be addressed. 
 This is always the goal.  It will always be the goal as long as I'm the coach here.  It's part of coaching the Green Bay Packers.  The standard has been in set.  The history is in place.  And it's our responsibility to make sure we get that done. 

 Q.  When you first got here and looked at the landscape of this franchise, I guess when you try to prioritize what had to happen first to get from that point to this point, what exactly is at the top of that list? 
 MIKE McCARTHY:  You have to create the culture that you feel gives you the best chance to win.  And it's a positive environment.  It's an environment that involves communication.  Accountability is at a premium.  The importance of availability from your players. 
 Those are all key factors that we've stressed here since day one.  And I think we're doing a very good job of that.  And I think the culture has been created and we need to continue to manage that culture as we move forward. 

 Q.  Obviously you're going to be the quarterback in Green Bay you have to have some success being a cold weather quarterback.  Brett Favre has been phenomenal when you look at those games.  What physical characteristics does he possess that allows that or what is his approach that enables him to perform under those conditions? 
 MIKE McCARTHY:  That's something I've always looked at quarterbacks just from their measurable standpoint.  Long levers, big hands.  Brett has the hands, so does Aaron.  Their measurables are very similar, so that enables them to potentially handle the ball better.  I'm not saying that's the key reason why he's a very good player in bad weather, because I'm sure there's players that have played in this environment that don't have those measurables, but I think it definitely helps them. 

 Q.  This is the first time that Brett has been in this environment in a decade.  Do you sense any change in him?  Any difference in him? 
 MIKE McCARTHY:  Not at all.  I mean, he's extremely focused.  He spends a lot of time here, a lot of extra time.  His truck's here at all hours of the day or night.  I thought he was diving in big time last week, and this week I anticipate the same thing. 

 Q.  When you started talking championship, when did you sense from him that he got it?  Did he believe it?  Did he ever express any doubt that he could get to this point with you? 
 MIKE McCARTHY:  Brett Favre is a champion.  He's already stood at the top of the mountain.  So I never was really concerned about him believing that he could win a championship.  I'm sure not everybody totally bought into me when I said it the first time I stood up there, and as we move forward I'm sure it became more of a reality.  But I've never been concerned about him wanting to win a championship.  Because he's done it and he's in the position to do it again. 

 Q.  A few weeks ago, before the open game, you talked about the attitude of the team expecting to win every week.  Has that been the case at the beginning of the year or was there a turning point somewhere along the way where you had the expectation to win every time? 
 MIKE McCARTHY:  I thought we had a big taste of it finishing the way we finished last year.  I thought we were playing at a very high level at the end of last season.  We played our best football of the season. 
 We used the momentum.  We referred to it a lot through our off-season and through the training camp and then everything was recreated through your training camp process.  And we found ways to win some games that were tough games early in the season, and the confidence continued to build.  But I would like to think that our football team expects to win every week.  That's the way they're coached and that's the way their head coach is and I think they exhibit that every time they step on the field. 

 Q.  When they talk about you becoming a head coach, they both talked about -- Mike Nolan talked about your last season in San Francisco.  He said he felt like you were a little held back (indiscernible) talked about some of the things you went through in New Orleans, and they both talked about how he sort of shaped you, prepared you to be a head coach.  Do you look back on those situations?  Anything that sticks out in your mind as you look back on those and think they really prepped you? 
 MIKE McCARTHY:  I can't say enough about my past.  I can't thank the Jim Hasletts, the Mike Nolans, the Marty Schottenheimers, Paul Hackett.  I've been so blessed if you look at the background of the coaches I've been able to coach with. 
 Go back to my first job at the University of Pittsburgh stuff.  Marvin Lewis, John Gruden, John Fox just left.  I think most of our staff at the University of Pittsburgh at that time has either coached in the NFL or still is coaching.  So I've been around a lot of very good football coaches, very good players that I was able to learn from different situations like you've already stated. 
 So I think we're all a product of our past, and I've been very fortunate to be around those type of people and to go through those experiences. 

 Q.  How many guys would you see (indiscernible) did you want them here yesterday on their day off or did you want them to -- 
 MIKE McCARTHY:  It's the normal flow.  Our guys do a great job of coming in, extra weight room work or the training room is something that has a constant flow. 
 You walk down the hall, the doors are closed so they're in there watching film.  Probably a little more than what you see.  But it's part of the way we operate here.  I think it all goes back to the environment that you create.  It's a place where if our players want to come in and do extra work it's not a place of "I'm not going to go in there" type of attitude. 
 So that's a credit to them and it's a credit to the Green Bay Packers organization, because our facilities are phenomenal.  And it's just a great culture to work in. 

 Q.  We talk so much about, quote/unquote, youngest team in the league.  Do you have the veterans in place and in the right places to keep this success?  Whether it's the corners or Favre, I mean, you think you've got not only the right veterans but the right veterans in the right positions kind of shepherded this young team to where it is? 
 MIKE McCARTHY:  I agree with you from experience standpoint.  If you look at the way we like to play, the quarterback position has a lot to do with the way we game plan and the things that we do both in running protection.  So that's a benefit.  A stress point of our defense is good corner play.  So the veteran corner backs definitely benefit there.  You never have enough good corners and pass rushers, I don't care what defensive scheme you're running. 
 I agree with your point, but everybody wants to talk about veterans.  They think it equates to leadership.  I think leadership is something that everybody in our locker room has.  It's just at what level or what style, and just because you're young doesn't mean you can't lead. 
 It's just a great group of players that are accountable.  They're available.  This is the healthiest we've been and it's a good situation to be in. 

 Q.  How do you see that leadership manifest itself?  Seems like when we talk about Favre we always talk about how he leads by example.  What guys in your locker room are those types, what guys in your locker room are more the guys you would count on to lead vocally?  How do you see that dynamic? 
 MIKE McCARTHY:  We have key players that are vocal leaders.  If you look at Rob Davis and some of our older guys.  But I think every player has some avenue that he takes in a leadership role, the way they practice or what they do as far as being good teammates, the chemistry in our locker room is very good.  Winning has a lot to do with it, I'm sure, can't be naive to that. 

 Q.  Did Wells just feel something in practice? 
 MIKE McCARTHY:  Just felt something in practice.  So just being safe.  Being sore, being safe with him. 

 Q.  When he interviewed you for (indiscernible) he actually interviewed you every single day for a week, and he felt it was a particularly grueling process for any candidate to go through.  Do you remember that being particularly grueling, that experience? 
 MIKE McCARTHY:  Every time I drive down Oneida Street I drive by the Kinko's, it reminds me of the Jim Haslett interview, because that's where I was about three nights before I went to New Orleans.  And I can remember leaving here, it was 25 below zero and when I got to playing it was 75 degrees.  We went to the office the first day and then every night about 10:00, 11:00, Jim Haslett and Rick Venturi, we would just start talking about football, different situations, different circumstances.  And after about five days it was -- I mean, it got to be monotonous.  It was like, You asked me that question three times already. 
 So it was a great experience and we were at dinner with Jeff Blake.  We just signed Jeff Blake with a free agent contract.  And Jim said, You need to talk to him about what you're going to do on offense.  I said, Well, I don't even know where we are, because I was technically the quarterback coach.  He goes, Oh, hell, you got the job, you knew that, didn't you?  That's how I found out I had it.  Good experience. 

 Q.  He said -- 
 MIKE McCARTHY:  It's the way to do it now.  I mean, I'll tell you, it's a good situation to be in.  If you have someone on your staff that you're able to interview and make sure he's the right guy, because everybody assumes that Jim and I are from Pittsburgh that we knew each other.  We really didn't have relationship. 
 So I definitely now sitting in this chair now I think it was a great way to go about it.  It was a good experience for me, too, because the thing with staffs that I've learned it's more about fit.  There's a lot of good coaches out there.  It's fitting those coaches together.  And he did a good job of doing it. 

 Q.  He said he thought after the fourth or fifth day he was waiting for you to just snap after continually doing this over and over.  Were you ever close to just saying, Jim, are you going to give me the job or not? 
 MIKE McCARTHY:  I guess I was -- my focus and patience prevailed.  (Laughter.)  But I guess Jim wanted me to snap -- because it was a good experience.  It was.  It was a heck of an interview, I'll say. 

 Q.  What were you making copies of three days in a row of? 
 MIKE McCARTHY:  I've never really had to interview for a job.  I interviewed here in Green Bay in '99, and it puts you on the board.  But I've never had to put together an outline or anything.  And sitting up here without a job in '99, didn't have a lot to do, I thought maybe I put together an outline.  Kinko's just opened up.  I wasn't going to do the typing.  I went down there and it worked out. 

 Q.  Will Blackmon, spoke to him? 
 MIKE McCARTHY:  Good.  I talked to Will at practice.  How he feels tomorrow will be key.  He felt a little sore as he went through it, but he was able to work today so we'll see how he is tomorrow. 

 Q.  Did you get the sense he can contribute like on defense? 
 MIKE McCARTHY:  He needs to go through the whole week before we make that call.  I'm not comfortable just putting him out there based on this important game.  I want to see him do it in practice. 

 Q.  Mike, did you have any particular message for Ryan Grant this week? 
 MIKE McCARTHY:  We haven't talked to Ryan one-on-one yet.  But during the course of the week, it won't be a big conversation.  I like the way Ryan goes about his business.  He's focused.  He's a hard worker.  He's always asking the details about the game plan in the blitz drill and things like that. 
 So I think he'll be fine.  I don't think he'll be one of those guys that will be so revved up that he'll go the other way.  I know this is a big opportunity for him.  But he's a focused young man. 

 Q.  Is he as even keeled behind closed doors as he seems to be with us?  He doesn't seem like the kind of guy that will get revved up? 
 MIKE McCARTHY:  We're all the same guy when we get up here.  No, I think he is.  He's pretty even, very, very level-headed. 

 Q.  Mike, with the success you guys have been having with other teams out there interested in your coordinators or coaches on your staff -- 
 MIKE McCARTHY:  I have not been notified. 

 Q.  What happened on Jennings -- the first Jennings touchdown?  Brett Favre looks like he gives him some sort of signal, and it looks like -- correct me if I'm wrong, looks like the offensive line did a run blocking on it.  Can you take me through what happened there? 
 MIKE McCARTHY:  I don't want to get into specifics about how we do things.  I mean, it's a scheme that we use over and over again all year.  And based upon what Brett and Greg did on that particular play is on film.  But it's a run/pass option that we've done, we do a lot of. 

 Q.  I guess I was going for on a greater level what does that say about where those two are at in terms of their ability to connect? 
 MIKE McCARTHY:  Brett does a great job of that.  And Greg is -- he's a lot better than he was this time last year.  No doubt about it.  It's really the whole receiver group.  And in my view Brett could have given a signal to any of those receivers.  That group is definitely on the same page. 

 Q.  I think you told the story on your show, in addition to the show last night, about him getting in front of the team, talking about his -- you know how he can be sometimes.  What were you thinking when he approached you and how did that presentation go? 
 MIKE McCARTHY:  I thought it was a great message.  And he did a great job.  We just put him on a time frame.  He was going to have three to five minutes.  And he did a good job staying within that. 
 But have you seen the movie? 

 Q.  I have not. 
 MIKE McCARTHY:  Yes, it's a great clip.  It's a great message. 

 Q.  When he first came to you, did you think it was a good idea right away, or did he have to sell you? 
 MIKE McCARTHY:  I watched it before. 

 Q.  Had you heard of it before? 
 MIKE McCARTHY:  I heard of the movie, but I've never seen it.  It's a great scene.  Good message. 

 Q.  More bounce coming off a game when you go down, moving the way you did (indiscernible)? 
 MIKE McCARTHY:  That's a good question.  I guess my inexperience, I can't answer that question.  We feel good about where we are.  We made the mistakes early, which I think was a benefit to us because we played at an extremely high level after that.  We went through the grades with the football team this morning, just the overall grades, and we pretty much have pluses across the board.  We lost the turnover ratio was the only negative. 
 So I don't know if it gives you more bounce, but to play at that level is something that we can point to, draw from, as we move into this week. 

 Q.  Was there notice going on the sidelines or was it just the way you play, down 14, and what was the mood on the sidelines? 
 MIKE McCARTHY:  I'm not going to sit here and say everybody said, hey, don't worry about it, we're going to be okay.  That wasn't the case. 
 It was frustrating.  But I think everybody handled it very well.  There's conversation that went on.  It was so early in the game that there was no -- in my view it ended up working out, was no reason to get away from what we were doing. 

 Q.  I know you don't worry about our opinions and outside opinions, but you're usually aware of them.  What did you think when people kind of reacted the way they did to your hiring two years ago?  People are writing stories about you. 
 MIKE McCARTHY:  I was excited to get the job, and I was focused on the job at hand.  I mean, I can't -- I knew I wasn't going to win the opening press conference.  So I didn't concern myself with it.  I got up here that day and told everybody how I felt and about the opportunity and what I planned on doing with the opportunity.  I felt that was the best way to approach the job and thankfully it's worked out. 

 Q.  Do you think you lack the ability to judge people? 
 MIKE McCARTHY:  I must because Jason asks me this stuff all the time. 

 Q.  Really, some coaches along the way pick up the ability to manipulate the situations, the media, the players.  A lot of coaches who have coached with you say you don't have that ability, that you just -- for whatever reason you've never learned how to lie? 
 MIKE McCARTHY:  BS.  I'll take it as a compliment.  That's all I gotta say about it.  I'm not going to comment on other coaches and their ability to talk to manipulate.  I will take it as a compliment. 

 Q.  You feel you don't have any reason to do that? 
 MIKE McCARTHY:  God, I hope not.  I don't view our business that way.  I don't agree with that opinion.  I think it's a people business.  I think it's about fit.  I think you need to fit with -- I think the general manager, the head coach fit is critical.  I think you see it over and over again in our business.  I'm comfortable in my own skin.  I think it's how groups, people are successful. 

 Q.  At the beginning of the year as you're struggling to run the football, people are saying running in December and January, if you put it across Ryan Grant or if he wouldn't have turned out to be as good as he was, do you think he would still be standing here talking about the championship game? 
 MIKE McCARTHY:  I'm not good about BS'ing or the what-ifs.  I can tell you that.  We had a run game that wasn't being very productive, and Ryan earned the opportunity to be that guy, because I felt the running back by committee that we were using wasn't working because we were so young at the position, that we were spreading these guys out trying to get them ready to play a certain segment but also covering ourselves if injury occurred. 
 I used running back by committee in the past but there were veterans involved.  So at that point we need to go with one guy.  And we actually decided to go with the DeShawn Wynn for the Denver game.  He was injured early in that game, and Ryan Grant was the number two player.  And then we haven't looked back.  So that's the reality of what happened.  So the what-ifs, I never even thought about it. 

 Q.  You get Grant involved in your second drive on Saturday, is that by design, the first run, giving him a chance to settle himself? 
 MIKE McCARTHY:  The second drive? 

 Q.  Second drive (indiscernible) I don't know if he made any touches on the first one? 
 MIKE McCARTHY:  The ball was thrown to him, the first ball of the game and he fumbled it. 

 Q.  After his rough start, your first touchdown, he wasn't very much involved.  The second drive was when he got involved.  Was that by design? 
 MIKE McCARTHY:  It was by design to have him involved at the beginning of the game even after the fumbles.  As I recall, I went right back to him after the second fumble.  I know I came out and threw it the first play, the triple post X cross.  But we went right back to him.  Because, like I said before, he's a big part of the way we approach that game and I felt it was important to give him the ball. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT