U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 2017
Garrick Higgo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So another solid morning of play.
GARRICK HIGGO: Yeah, yeah.
Q. What did you do well?
GARRICK HIGGO: Again, just played solid, consistent, made one bogey, which luckily I halved the hole and made an eagle and a few birdies.
Q. Tell me about the eagle at 6.
GARRICK HIGGO: I hit driver.  I've been hitting a knock-down driver there every day, and I got a lucky bounce.  I pitched it in the fringe, which stopped it a little bit, and it rolled to like 30 foot, and then made the putt.
Q. How much of a break was on that putt?
GARRICK HIGGO: About two balls left and then just straight downhill.
Q. And then 10, you made a birdie, you hit a knock-down 9-iron?
GARRICK HIGGO: Yeah, I should have hit wedge.  It's on the number for wedge, but I hit knock-down just because I was so far in the lead, and you don't want to give holes away when you're in the lead, so I was trying to play it just past the hole and pulled it a little bit, left myself with like a 40-, 50-foot putt and then made that.
Q. You made a lot of pars early to win holes.  Were you surprised that he was not forcing the action a little bit more than he was?
GARRICK HIGGO: Yeah, I was very surprised, yeah.
Q. And then when you got the big lead, were you just trying to hit the middles of of greens?  Were you more conservative in the way you were playing or were you still aggressive?
GARRICK HIGGO: In between.  Some flags that were gettable I would go for it.  Others that weren't, I'd just play middle green.
Q. I asked you yesterday about how happy you were to make the quarterfinals.  Now how happy are you to make the semifinals?
GARRICK HIGGO: Probably the same, yeah.  Just extremely excited.
Q. What would it mean to you to get to the final knowing that the U.S. Amateur is one of your goals?
GARRICK HIGGO: That would be great.  I mean, I missed out by one shot in the qualifying for U.S. Am, so I'm an alternate, but it would be great to get to the final.
Q. What did you learn about yourself last year when you made the U.S. Amateur at Oakland Hills?  Did you realize at that point, hey, I belong here and I can compete with these guys?
GARRICK HIGGO: Yeah, yeah, I did, because we went over there -- we came over here just for the U.S. Junior and sort of saw the U.S. Am qualifier not as something that -- not that I wouldn't achieve it, but something too big, and when I made it, I knew I was in good stead.
Q. You've been in the United States probably since May?
GARRICK HIGGO: No, no, not in the U.S. since May.
Q. But traveling, away from home since May?
GARRICK HIGGO: Yeah.
Q. How tough is that on you being away from home that long, or are you used to it?
GARRICK HIGGO: I wouldn't say I'm used to it, but I mean, it's nice.  It's nice to experience different countries and different cultures, and it's nice to play golf all over the world.
Q. With all that knowledge of how other countries are, has that changed how you view things worldwide?
GARRICK HIGGO: Yeah, yeah.
Q. What's probably changed, one or two things that maybe you didn't know?
GARRICK HIGGO: Just the different golf courses and the different shots you need to play, the different grasses.  I've probably played on every single type of grass.  And then it gives you so much experience.  So when you're in a situation, you can always say, well, I've done this before, you know.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT