U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 2017
Garrick Higgo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I'm sure it's a disappointing defeat.  Kind of describe your emotions right now.  
GARRICK HIGGO: Feeling obviously disappointed, but yeah, it's weird, I mean, I could have won.  I had the opportunity, but didn't play well, and Matt played well, so I'm happy for him.   
 Q.  Just talk a little bit about Matt.  I don't know if you've played him before in a match.  What are your thoughts on his game after seeing him play?  
GARRICK HIGGO: Yeah, I haven't seen him play before.  I've seen him hit balls, I've seen him in tournaments, and it's a strong show.  He hits it well, putts well.  Very consistent.   
 Q.  Pretty strong player, seems like he hits it a pretty long way.  
GARRICK HIGGO: Yeah, I mean, gives me a go, and I feel like I hit it pretty long, and he's definitely longer, yeah.   
 Q.  So what happened between 11 and 12?  What was the situation that got you in trouble with the cart?  
GARRICK HIGGO: I went to the bathroom, and a volunteer was in the bathroom, as well, and he asked me if I wanted a lift, and in the moment, I mean -- you should think if someone asks you for a lift that they would know that it's the right thing, that they wouldn't ask it and then know that it's not right.  I feel like everyone that works here, USGA should tell everyone that has a cart that they shouldn't give lifts.   
 Q.  Did you know the rule?  
GARRICK HIGGO: I did, yeah, but I mean, if someone that works here asks you --   
 Q.  Yeah, you just assume --  
GARRICK HIGGO: I assume there was some kind of change, you know, especially with now it's match play.  Yeah, I don't know, and it just changes the whole game plan from being all square through 11, I was 1-down, now I have to come back.   
 Q.  How did you -- your mindset then when you get on the 12th tee after you're told that.  You hit a great drive.  
GARRICK HIGGO: Yeah, yeah, I was fine.  I sort of just laughed at it and said it's one of those things that always happens at USGA events, like things with the Open --   
 Q.  Obviously you had some chances, too, coming down.  You had a couple of putts --  
GARRICK HIGGO: Yeah, I didn't play well.  Honestly, Matt deserves it.  He played well.  That doesn't change anything.  I would have lost in any case.   
 Q.  Would you have liked to have had a couple of those -- you had a couple of good opportunities to win holes with par putts.  
GARRICK HIGGO: 15, yeah, and then I had a lob wedge in on 13 and I hit it to 40 feet, lob wedge in on 16, hit it to -- hit it over the green.   
 Q.  Just misclub or did the wind kind of get you?  
GARRICK HIGGO: I think, yeah, it was sort of just not a good feel, you know.  I wasn't in sync.   
 Q.  And then obviously on 17, it looked like you just kind of missed your yardage by a couple of yards.  
GARRICK HIGGO: Yeah, so that's where I said, you know, like if I didn't lose 11, I would have been 1-down playing 17 and 18.  I might have not gone for the flag.  But yeah, I hit it well, just sort of ballooned on me.   
 Q.  The wind just kind of confused you a little bit or gusted up at the time you hit it?  
GARRICK HIGGO: I think I just hit it a bit too soft.  I took a knock-down 7 and just -- I hit it good but just too soft.   
 Q.  It looked like on the tracer it was right at the flag.  
GARRICK HIGGO: It was literally right at the flag.  I thought it was going to be good.   
 Q.  Obviously a great week.  You go on to the Western?  
GARRICK HIGGO: Western Amateur in two weeks' time.   
 Q.  And then hopefully maybe get the amateur -- I know one more win would have got you to the final.  Noah got to the final, so somebody is going to -- that's an alternate is going to get his spot because he's already in.  He's already into the amateur and he got into the final, so one spot is available.  I don't know where you are on the allotment list.  There's 100 qualifying sites, so you never know.  Great playing this week.  
GARRICK HIGGO: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT