THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 15, 2018
Alexander Peya
Nicole Melichar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PEYA-MELICHAR/Murray-Azarenka
7-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Can you tell us how does it feel to be Wimbledon champion?
NICOLE MELICHAR: Can't really describe it.  You dream about winning Wimbledon as a kid, then realize how difficult tennis actually is.  It's a dream just to play here.  But to win here, it's amazing.
ALEXANDER PEYA: I mean, same thing.  I grew up idolizing Boris Becker and his battles with Edberg and those guys.
I mean, Wimbledon was always a cornerstone for me, playing in the garden with my brother.  So to sit here now and be Wimbledon champion, it definitely feels amazing.
Q. Reflecting on the match itself, at first it was tight, but you seemed to control the second set.  Did you feel that way yourself once you got the early break?
ALEXANDER PEYA: Yeah, I mean, I felt like we served very well the first set.  I think they hardly won points on our serve.  Once we got the break, I felt pretty confident.  Even though we had, like, one or two struggles on our serves in the second set, but that's to be expected over the course of two or three sets.
But I think we managed well in our service games.
Q. What about your characteristics, what do you think Nicole brings to your game and vice versa?  Why have you clicked so well during this tournament?
ALEXANDER PEYA: Nicole, she serves very good.  I think we've played now seven mixed matches, including French Open.  She hasn't gotten broken.
NICOLE MELICHAR: I have a good partner at the net.
ALEXANDER PEYA: Her serving and me at the net, it's a very good combination.  Overall, we're having fun on the court.  We're enjoying it.  I think that reflects in our game.
Q. What is it about your teamwork that's made you so successful this tournament?
NICOLE MELICHAR: I think we're both just very positive.  We're laughing a lot.  I joked with him before the tournament that mixed doubles is my happy place, so...  I call us Team happy Place.
We have fun out there, we support each other.  We don't get upset with each other.  We just give it our best.
Q. How special was it to be on Centre Court, as well, final game of this year's Championships?
NICOLE MELICHAR: I didn't get to play there yesterday, which I was a bit disappointed.  Unfortunately with the scheduling, it wasn't possible.  But I was a little bit relieved knowing that we would play there today.
It's an unbelievable court.  The atmosphere was great.  Just having our whole support team there.  It's an honor to play there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT