U.S. SENIOR OPEN
June 30, 2019
Chris DiMarco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Made it through the tough stretch on the front nine with a couple of birdies.
CHRIS DiMARCO: I did.
Q. What were you thinking at that point?  Were you thinking you could try to do something?
CHRIS DiMARCO: You know, you're never going to catch Strick.  I mean, he's 19 -- I looked up after I got through that stretch, he was 19-under, 13 back.  For me, just kind of -- it started to play like a U.S. Open golf course.  The greens got firm, the fairways were firmer, the rough was actually a little thicker, and it was more about making sure you just didn't make any big numbers and just kind of hung in there, gave yourself chances.
These greens are small, but there's a lot of undulations in them.  So if you don't get it on the right level, you have tough little putts up and over hills.  I was fortunate down the stretch, hit a lot of really good iron shots.
Q. That kind of makes it tough when it's more like a U.S. Open course and you've got to try to be aggressive and the guys keep -- he keeps distancing himself?
CHRIS DiMARCO: Well, one thing you know for sure is Stricker ain't going backwards.  Starting today, 13 shots back, realistically I didn't think I had a 57 in me.  For me, it was about just going out and just playing good golf and knowing the conditions were tough and just kind of -- really my only obstacle today was myself, just trying to get out of my own way and just let myself hit good golf shots.
Q. Top 10 finish has got to be pleasing?
CHRIS DiMARCO: First top 10 ever on the Champions Tour for me, so a long time coming.  I know it's been in there.  I've been telling people it's been getting close, and putter worked really well this week.  I drove it good this week.  My iron play was good.  I missed it in the right spots, my short game.  Everything kind of clicked this week.  I could have made a couple more putts out there coming down the stretch, but I certainly made a lot of putts to make up for it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT