SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 15, 2011
Chris DiMarco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about your round.   
 CHRIS DiMARCO: You know, I played really good out there, got off to a good -- I mean, the first few holes on this course are pretty tough, and I had two really good up-and-downs on 1 and 2 and was able to birdie 3 and 5 and actually had some good chances. Missed on 9 from about five feet and had a three-putt on the back nine.   
 I'm playing good. I'm hitting the ball where I'm aiming it and driving it good and I'm putting good, so that's a good combination.  
  
  Q. What did you think coming into the season? What were your expectations, if any?  
 CHRIS DiMARCO: Well, my expectations were high. I think I made the last 15 cuts in a row last year to end the year. I wasn't finishing where I wanted to finish as far as -- I was always finishing around 40th, and obviously you need to throw a few top 10s in there, but kept giving myself opportunities. So I was feeling good about this year. Obviously I played good at the Shark Shootout; me and Anthony, we finished third there.   
 So you know, this is the kind of golf course -- there's not many now that if you're not overly long that you can still get on, and this is one of them, so I felt very good about coming here.  
  
  Q. Do you feel like some guys come here with a little bit of rust so if you can come in with some type of --  
 CHRIS DiMARCO: No, I've been playing a lot at home. I took a good couple weeks off, but I played all the way up until the Shark Shootout which ended on the 15th or 14th, so I only had a couple weeks off before I got back into it. I certainly went in -- came into this -- obviously this year taking my top 50 career money, knowing this is a year that I need to pretty much dedicate everything to it. It's hard.   
 Sometimes this game you have to be selfish, and when you have a family it's hard to be that. I dedicated myself to playing hard this year and getting back to where we need to be.   
  
  Q. You talked about making 14 straight cuts off of last year. That's obviously a positive. You can look at it as a negative, as you said, you didn't get those top 10s, but you turned it into a positive.   
 CHRIS DiMARCO: It is a positive. If you're not playing the weekend, there's nothing positive about that. So at least if you're playing the weekend, you're working on your game, you're working on the things that you want to work on. This is the kind of golf course where patience is certainly -- it used to be you needed to shoot 22-, 23-, 24-under par. That's not here anymore.   
 Tomorrow is going to be a long day, 36 holes in one day, but if there's ever a golf course to walk 36, this is it, very flat, and right there in front of you. It shouldn't be too windy, it's supposed to be nice, and we'll see what happens.   
  
  Q. When you have that kind of day when you're playing 36 holes, does that change any kind of strategy at all? Do you have to pace yourself?   
 CHRIS DiMARCO: No, you realize that it's going to be a long day. You think it's Sunday and there's only one round left, but there's actually 36 holes left. The bottom line is you want to give yourself a chance going into the last nine holes on the 63rd through 72nd hole. That's what my goal is, is to kind of have a chance when I make the turn for my last round and have a chance on the back nine to win the tournament.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT