THE RYDER CUP MATCHES
September 17, 2004
Chris DiMarco
Jay Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  You worked so hard to make your way onto this team, how are you feeling?
JAY HAAS:  I don't know, I've been kind of letting Chris down here last few holes, I just said, the hell with it, go with what you've got, and just happened to pull one off at the right time.  He's a great partner.  We had a great day.
Q.  Were you aware what was going on behind you and how important this point would be for the Americans?

CHRIS DiMARCO:  Absolutely.  I tell what you, we fought hard today.  It was a tough-fought battle.  I tell you what, this man right here has got some game.  I tell you what, I'm glad he's my partner.
Q.  Put into words for me what it feels like to win your first Ryder Cup point?

CHRIS DiMARCO:  I'm glad, it was my first try, too.  You know what, it's pretty awesome.  I tell you what, Thomas and Miguel played pretty good, too.  It was just, we made some putts.  We finally made some putts.  Me and him hit it pretty solid all day and just happened to be on top.
Q.  This must go a long way to help erase the memory of Oak Hill?
JAY HAAS:  A little bit.  Honestly I never thought once about that all week other than when people brought it up.  Just to hit a shot under intense pressure pressure is a lot of fun.  It's a great day for this team right here.
Q.  You seemed to be trying to get them going.

CHRIS DiMARCO:  They need to hear, I want to see this point posted so they can see it and give them some momentum.  If we can get two points or two and a half points out of the afternoon somehow.
Q.  What did Captain Sutton say between matches?
JAY HAAS:  I didn't see him.  He was out watching that last match when we got to the first tee and he had a big grin on his face.  He seemed pretty relaxed.  He gave us the feeling of confidence and to go out, he wanted to see some red on the right side of the leaderboard.

We got off to a little slow start but got that red up there and keep it.  Hopefully we can do this again tomorrow afternoon.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT