WGC NEC INVITATIONAL
August 21, 2004
Chris DiMarco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.   Talk about the keys to the round today for you today.
CHRIS DIMARCO:  Putting and hitting the ball in the fairway obviously.  The rough is extremely thick out here.  I was able to birdie three of the par 3s, and that's usually going to help you.  Three 2s on the card usually is pretty good.

And again, I made some really good par savers.  I think I made three bogeys and three of them in three putts, so my short game has been pretty good.
Q.   The week after a major is usually a mellow week.  This is a big one.  Is it hard to get the momentum back after such a strenuous week last week?
CHRIS DIMARCO:  It's not so much momentum.  I was playing so well last week.  Even at International I played so well.  I had just a brain freeze on the weekend.  When you're playing well, you're really not thinking that much anyway.  I'm just trying to stay in the moment and not get ahead of myself.  I'm so excited to get home next week and have a couple weeks off.

So one more good round of golf tomorrow, you never know what can happen.  I put myself in position again, and that's all you can ask for out here is to give yourself a chance on Sunday.
Q.   Do you like the way this course is with the wind skipping up or did you like it the first two days?
CHRIS DIMARCO:  What was hard and fast out there?  There's no way it can get hard and fast.  It was hard and fast on Wednesday, and it actually played a lot harder, hard and fast.  A lot of these fairways have mounds and it's hard to keep it in the fairway, but with it being so soft, it's plugging.
Q.   Did you say that you'll be taking two weeks off prior to Ryder Cup?
CHRIS DIMARCO:  No, I'm taking two weeks off and then playing Canadian Open and then playing Ryder Cup.  This is four in a row.  This is like 12 of 14 for me or something or 12 of 15.
Q.   It's not that draining because you're playing well; is that what you're thinking?
CHRIS DIMARCO:  I'm definitely tired, there's no doubt about it, but again, if you can't get up contending for a World Golf Championship, then I should just go home today.  I'm certainly excited about that.  I'm certainly excited about the position I'm in.  I'm going to definitely go out and give it my all tomorrow and be ready for it for sure.
Q.   As a Ryder Cup team member, it must be interesting to see the captain's choice vindicated.
CHRIS DIMARCO:  It doesn't matter how he plays.  It's vindicated before that.  Stewart Cink has had a phenomenal year, Jay Haas has had a phenomenal year.  Stewart finished 13th or 14th.  Stewart Cink is a well proven player.  He played Ryder Cup before and had a great record, so I think that     I like Hal's picks.  I know there's a couple other guys that were disappointed, but unfortunately Hal had to pick two of three or four guys.
Q.   This is your second time at Firestone?
CHRIS DIMARCO:  This is my second time, yeah.  Last year I don't think I played particularly well.  I was not hitting the ball good last year coming in, and obviously I'm hitting the ball good this week, and that makes a difference.
Q.   How did the course kind of fit your game and your style?
CHRIS DIMARCO:  I'm a good iron player, so again, I birdied three of the par 3s out here, so if you can do that out here you can score.  I think I played the par 5s 1 over this week to tell you the truth, I know I have.  The par 5s are like     No.  16 is a par 6 almost, and 2, I just haven't been able to birdie it yet.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT