THE INTERNATIONAL
August 5, 2004
Chris DiMarco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TODD BUDNICK:   We are suspended for the day.  Welcome back tomorrow at 7:00 am.  Second round will start at 9:30.

From the players' perspective, something you are very used here, 10th year in a row the first round has been delayed at some point, just talk about that.
CHRIS DiMARCO:   Well, I knew it was going to be bad today.  Just a matter of     right on the button, 6:15 they ended up blowing, and you could see it really looking bad out there.  But, you know, thankful that I was able to get six points through eight holes.
Q.  How does this affect how you approach tomorrow knowing you have so many holes left?
CHRIS DiMARCO:  This is really not the easiest course we have to walk.  I'm not looking forward to walking it twice tomorrow.  Basically, you just have to     it's going to be a very long day.  9:30 I think is the first tee time in the afternoon, so I'll be close to getting done in case we have rain again.  So hopefully I can get all of my round in tomorrow.
Q.  How was the course today after the weather yesterday?
CHRIS DiMARCO:   For as much as rain they had, it was in good shape.  The greens were a little bit slower than yesterday.  Yesterday morning, they were perfect.  They were really fast.  Today they were definitely a lot slower.
Q.  For the regulars like yourself that come here, do you just accept it and gear yourself up and not get upset?
CHRIS DiMARCO:  Yeah, there's nothing that you can do about it, obviously.  Being on the 18th tee, I'm okay with that.  There's a lot of tee balls that are kind of tough out here.  At least one of the ones it's right there in front of you and you can see and then have to go right up to No. 1 and play the front side.

Obviously I'm looking forward to playing tomorrow and getting some more birdies in, and obviously getting off to a good start is a good way to get the tournament going.
Q.  How many events have you played in this year?
CHRIS DiMARCO:   This is my 20th.
Q.  How many of those have you had delays?
CHRIS DiMARCO:   I don't even know.  I'd say three or four.
Q.  Is that all?
CHRIS DiMARCO:   I don't know.  You'd know better than I.  How many have we been delayed?
TODD BUDNICK:  This is the 15th tournament that's been affected.
CHRIS DiMARCO:   I don't know how many I've played in.  It's quite a few.  This is probably my 100th in the years I've been out here.
Q.  There's a lot of great international players, where do the Australians rank for you as a group and the depth of that field?
CHRIS DiMARCO:   Well, obviously, you know, Stuart Appleby and Robert Allenby, and Paul Gow who I played with at the British Open, he's playing good.  There's a bunch of good guys, not necessarily Australians.  There's so many good international players, it's unbelievable now.
Q.  Just going back to the weather a little bit, are you a mudder?  Are you one of those people, "can we play as much as we can"?
CHRIS DiMARCO:   I think what's going to happen is we are probably going to finish our round, and they are probably going to    my guess is they might go to lift, clean and place tomorrow just in case there is more rain because I think we probably could have gone out there tonight and played more golf.

You know, actually, it's still raining and 15 degrees colder out there.  So I would rather wait till tomorrow personally.  I would like to think that every one of us is in good enough shape to have to play 28 or 30 holes tomorrow.  I'll be tired tomorrow afternoon, but I'll be done, hopefully.
TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you, Chris.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT