FBR OPEN
February 1, 2004
Chris DiMarco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CHRIS DiMARCO: Yeah, I played absolutely miserable the first nine, 2-over, and then I kind of got hot on the back nine, six birdies in a row.  16, on the tee box there, you can't tell what it's doing.  I hit a 9-iron as pure as I can hit it and it comes up short and goes in the bunker on the downslope.  The best you can do is knock it 30 feet there. 

Then 17, I've got to hit driver.  I wasn't even thinking about putting it in the middle of the green.  I was thinking about hitting it right like I did.  The other day when it was back there, I hit it down short and I was able to chip it up perfect, and I hit it too far, and from there you're just dead.  I was trying to hit it 30 feet and I hit it off the green and tried to make my chip and knocked it five feet by and then watched him putt it five feet by.  My putt broke a lot and I missed it.  One of those days where I had it going. 


Q.  He answered you on three occasions. 

CHRIS DiMARCO:  Every time.  He made that great birdie on 12.  He made a great putt on 13, made a great putt on 14, made a great putt on 15.  We were kind of drawing at each other.  It was fun out there. 

He had the benefit of watching me hit what I did on No. 16.  He hit 9-iron, too, and I don't think he would have hit it that hard if my ball would have gotten there.  Who knows, the tables could have turned on that hole, but he played great.  He deserves it.  He certainly went out and beat me.


Q.  (Inaudible). 

CHRIS DiMARCO: They're just inebriated out there.  Nothing bothered me, nothing at all.  I heard about 10 or 12 Noonans that I heard from years past, and it's fine.  I'll just say this:  I'd love to go get a six pack of beer, find out where these guys work, go in their office, sit on my chair and go yell at them while they're making sales calls.  I really would.  It's a little disappointing that they don't show more respect, but it goes with the hole.  That's the way it works.  You would have thought since I won here, and being a past champion, maybe they'd show a little more respect, but it just goes to show what alcohol does for you.


Q.  Did it get to you?

CHRIS DiMARCO:  No, not at all.  I hit a 9-iron right at the hole and it came up short.  Like I said, the only thing I could do was hit it 30 feet from the hole.  I had no shot at all.  I was trying to bump it into the hill and I missed the hill and it went 30 feet by. 

And then on 17, I hit my drive perfect.  I picked up my tee, thought I would have a nice chip right to the back of the hole, and it went 340 yards.  I haven't hit one 340 all week.  So bad bounces.  When you win, those bounces don't happen like that.  Unfortunately, they did today.


Q.  If you were tied, would you have not had to go with the driver on 17?

CHRIS DiMARCO:  I've always hit driver on 17 and I would have hit driver again.  I'm not going to second-guess it.  I never in a million years thought I could hit the ball that far.  It went a lot further than I thought it was going to go. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT