BUICK OPEN
July 30, 2009
Chris DiMarco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Peter, thank you very much. We're here with Chris DiMarco, posted a nice 66 today on a course that's giving away some birdies. And you like these aggressive-style golf courses, right?
 CHRIS DiMARCO: Right. You know, the course is playing firm, which I like. The greens aren't real firm, but the ball's chasing a little bit, so I'm getting a lot on my driver. When you hit it in the fairway, it goes an extra 30 yards, which is good. 

 Q. We have not seen you play here in years past, but you seem to have a few flashes of brilliance here and there. What are the things that you're working on right now?
 CHRIS DiMARCO: You know, I'm just trying to stay in the moment, keep the pedal down and keep going. 
 I think I've gotten tentative over the years, the last couple years. I think you have injuries and all of a sudden you start questioning your confidence, and I think that today I kind of stayed confident out there. I kept hitting really good quality golf shots and kept hitting aggressive shots, smart but aggressive shots. 

 Q. You posted 66 for the afternoon and now you're going out in the morning where the greens will be even more receptive. Does this give you confidence heading into tomorrow and possibly into the weekend?
 CHRIS DiMARCO: Yeah. Sure. Absolutely you go out and play a good round today, you want to keep it going and tomorrow morning get out and play a nice round. 
 The greens got a little bumpy at the end, but the greens are perfect, they're rolling good. It's just going to get nothing but perfect the rest of the week, so it's actually playing well. Hopefully the rains will stay away and the course can firm up and then really go low. 

 Q. Chris, you're known to always have an opinion. What's your opinion on that 66 today?
 CHRIS DiMARCO: You know, it was nice. It was kind of easy. I made a couple good par putts, but for the most part it was pretty easy out there. I'm driving it good. I'm hitting my irons really solid. 
 I switched to those new Ping i15 the last couple weeks, and they're really solid, so my air play was really good today, and I putted good. I made some good holes today. I made a couple 30-footers, which I hadn't been making. And a couple 30-footers turns into a 66 pretty easy. 

 Q. I know that you can only control your own game, not everybody else's, but when you go out and you see a 9-under par and an 8-under par before you ever hit a shot, does that put pressure on you to try to force birdies early or the rest of the field?
 CHRIS DiMARCO: You know, you do. If you don't make a couple early, you feel like you're waiting on it and then you feel like maybe you need to push, you need to be aggressive. 
 The main thing is just staying in the moment, and you know, trying to just realize you're going to have a bunch of birdie putts out there. And you know, you get a few. You can just chip away, chip away, chip away. And the way I look at it, we have 36 holes to get ahead of that 9-under. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT