KEMPER INSURANCE OPEN
May 30, 2002
Chris DiMarco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 TODD BUDNICK:  Welcome Chris DiMarco back to the press room.  5-under, 66, one shot off the lead in the first rounds. 
You started on the front side today, no bogeys but birdies on 6 and 7.  Can you walk us through it.
CHRIS DiMARCO:  6, I just hit a driver and a 2-iron up there actually about 12 feet and hit a good putt that slid by, so I 2-putted for birdie. 
The next hole I hit a good drive down the right side, 6-iron about six, seven feet and a good birdie.  That's one of the better holes in the course.
1, I hit a 9-iron about 10 feet behind the hole and made that. 
And then 13 I hit a driver, 3-wood up there about 15 feet and tapped that in. 
And next hole I hit driver off the tee and hit it on the front fringe, putted it up about five feet and made that.
Lipped out on 9, lipped out on 1.  Good chance on 18, left it short for about 15 feet. 
TODD BUDNICK:  You told us yesterday the course was in good shape.
CHRIS DiMARCO:  I hit a lot of fairways.  The greens are tough to putt.  There are a lot of poa annua on them, and they're bumpy.  It's hard to get a true roll on it.  I didn't really make that many putts today.  I made a couple of good par saves early in the round, and 8 -, 10-footer on No. 3, and 8 -, 10-footer on No. 4 for par, which kept me going positive.  And then I was able to make a couple of birdies. 

Q.   Chris, you're, as you know, I understand from earlier this week, you're the highest ranked player here in the world.  In your own mind are there different expectations or do you treat it like any other golf event?
CHRIS DiMARCO:  Any other golf event.  That's just a number.  It matters more to you guys than it does to me.  I don't carry on about that.  I like the money list numbers.  That's the one I'm looking for.  That goes along with playing good.  I don't really look at that too much.  It's a nice thing, but it's not that high up in my priority list.

Q.   You mentioned the money list and all of that.  What's your sense that it's going to take to elevate you there?  Maybe a major or something like that?
CHRIS DiMARCO:  Well, I feel like I've kind of gotten there.  I'm kind of getting in there.  I did really good on the West Coast, got a win out of the way out there early.  And I'm trying to put myself in position to win as many tournaments as I can.  And I know it's an old cliche, just trying to get yourself in position on Sunday on the back 9 and go from there. 

Q.   This is one of those rounds and unfortunately I didn't get to watch you play, but you played the course the way you would -- you did well on the holes where there were birdie chances and you parred just about everything else.  How would you characterize that as a round?
CHRIS DiMARCO:  I hit some great shots.  On No. 12 I hit a driver and 5-iron in there about 12 feet and didn't make that.  I was hitting shots -- I was hitting good shots.  I was playing conservative in a way, but I was also trying to make a lot of birdie drives.  It's hard to make putts on the green; they're bumpy.  I made a good par save on 15.  Made about a good 5-footer there.  It's tough to make putts out here.  Normally the greens are a lot less poa annua and a lot faster.  They're slower and a lot of poa annua in them and tough to make putts. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT