THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY DYNEGY
October 30, 2001
Chris DiMarco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CHRIS DiMARCO: It has been pretty consistent, really.  I think I only missed three cuts all year.  Obviously, I got to play in THE TOUR Championship and in the Mercedes Championship last year and then Mercedes this year, and those were two huge goals starting the year again.  It's fun playing these 30-man fields, and that's it.  And same thing with the Mercedes.  So those are two important goals.  Even if I hadn't won last year, last week, I think I still would have been pretty satisfied with the year, but it was kind of icing on the cake winning it up there, enough to win a few times this year.  And it's hard to win.  I am glad I was able to pull through last week.  
 
Q.  With the advent of the ProV1 ball and some other equipment this year, has the pack on the PGA TOUR closed the gap on Tiger Woods this year?  The records would seem to indicate so because he didn't have quite the year he had before.
 
CHRIS DiMARCO: I don't know how he could have the same year he had the year before.  I mean   --- 
 
Q.  Right.
 
CHRIS DiMARCO: Ridiculous.  He won nine times, three majors, I mean that's just hard to do.  I think that everybody -- when he first came out and started winning and started beating everybody, I think everybody was -- not necessarily gave up, but everybody maybe was a little bit intimidated by him.  I think that intimidation factor is gone a little bit.  I think people know that he can be beat and know that he is human, still a great player but know he's human and that  if you are playing better that week you can beat him.  I think that has a lot to do with it.  
 
Q.  What is your schedule after this week and up until the Mercedes Championship?
 
CHRIS DiMARCO: I got a Gator game in South Carolina; Gator game in Gainesville, and a Gator game in Gainesville, the SEC championship Game and then Hawaii.  (Laughs) Nothing.  I am doing nothing.  Just football, actually, and family.  Family and football, just take some time and spend some time at home. 
 
Q.  And the Rose Bowl?
 
CHRIS DiMARCO: I will be in Kapalua.   Unfortunately it's the Thursday or Friday of Kapalua.  So I think I will -- as much as I love the Gators I will be in Kapalua.  (Laughs). 
 
Q.  Can you talk a little bit about the importance of this event?  You talked about it being a goal of yours this year, just what it is like to be able to play in it?
 
CHRIS DiMARCO: It's just kind of like the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow really.  You play all year, you know, it's a bonus.  It's kinds of a nice present at the end of the year to come here and have a limited field and it's just -- I mean it just shows you how good you played all year.  It's just a bonus at the end of the year. 
 
CHRIS DiMARCO: Yeah, it does.  Obviously winning in a field like that  - I got to play with Davis and Vijay on Saturday, everybody that was supposed to be playing good was playing good.  So it was fun.  It's fun being out there on Sunday competing at the end.  You just want to be there on  -- I know it's cliche to say but you want to be there on the back nine on Sunday with a chance to win.  There were a bunch of guys that could have won the tournament five, six, seven guys that were all either tied for the lead or were around the lead with four, five holes to go.  David kind of pulled ahead and I was fortunate to make a few birdies coming in to tie him.  Very fortunate to win the playoff. 
 
Q.  There have been a lot of storylines on TOUR this year.  Looking back on 01, is the story of the year of this TOUR people related or is it the ball that I mentioned earlier?
 
CHRIS DiMARCO: I don't think  -- I think the ball has made a little difference but I don't think it's made as a big of impact as you think.  I know that it's meant a little bit more driver distance but I know the further you hit the ball the further it goes off-line too.  So that part of it you are seeing.  Other than that I think that the unfortunate thing of the year is what happened September 11th, tell you the truth.  I think that put everything into perspective. 
 
Q.  With that said, how much with what has happened yesterday and the day before about the warning, does that concern you guys? You are out there in a big spot with a lot of people....
 
CHRIS DiMARCO: I mean, it does concern me a little bit but I think that with what these idiots are targeting, I don't really think they are worried about golf too much.  I think they are worried about the U.S. in general.  I don't think they are too worried about golf or I don't think baseball games are in jeopardy.  I think that they are  -- with this anthrax stuff going on I think they are doing little stuff.  I don't think that you can put golf up there in the perspective with what is going on. 
 
Q.  What did the win last week mean to you differently than from your win last year?  I know you haven't had much time to let it set in, but personally as far as what they mean to you, how are they different?
 
CHRIS DiMARCO: The first one is the hard one.  That one is hard and they are totally two totally complete wins.  There was a lot of great players when I won last year too.  But I won by 6.  So coming down the stretch I really didn't have that under-the-gun type of feeling where you know, just kind of coasted in, had a 5-shot lead with 4, 5 to play and turned out to (inaudible) myself.  Last week it was right down to the last putt that I had to make.  That's what you are practicing for on the putting green when you are ten years old.  This is the putt to beat Jack Nicklaus back then and now it is David Duval, one of greatest players now.  These kids are practicing 10-footers to beat David Duval.  I had that opportunity on Saturday and came through.  What can I say.  It kind of makes what I have done all the years pay off. 
 
Q.  In some way is it a more satisfying win that way as opposed to beating an entire field by 6?
 
CHRIS DiMARCO: I  think it is a little bit of both.  It's more -- it's satisfying to whip everybody by 6 for sure.  Then it's also satisfying to get your second win and not just be kind of a one-hit-type wonder like everybody likes to say.  So they are both extremely satisfying.  I mean obviously winning the first one was you know, the monkey off my back.  This kind of also is the same thing, just kind of knowing that I can do it again with a better field on top of it.  
 
Q.  The claw obviously has worked for you.  Having closed the door, closed one out, make any more validation that yes, it works; that's the way I have to do it?
 
CHRIS DiMARCO: I just think you can -- I mean if you look at where I finished last year and where I am at this year at the money list I think that validates the putting grip personally.  I have heard a lot less about it in the last year and a half. 
 
Q.  You started thinking about goals for next year or have you started thinking anything about what you want to accomplish next year?
 
CHRIS DiMARCO: My goals are pretty much the same as this year.  I try to  -- obviously this year I contended in some majors, I was up there.  That's certainly a goal next year to try to put myself in position to maybe win one of those.  You know, winning tournaments getting back here, you know, being a fixture in the top-30 and getting in the Mercedes Championship every year is two extremely high goals on my list. 
 
Q.  Does it bother you that you can win the Grand Slam next year or another player could and not make the Ryder Cup team, because the team is frozen?
 
CHRIS DiMARCO: Yeah, but I mean, these  -- the 12 guys that are going, unfortunate things happened and they deserve to be going.  It's just an unfortunate thing.  I will be on The Presidents Cup if I do that.  
 
Q.  Have a big lead in the next Ryder Cup as well.
 
CHRIS DiMARCO: And I will have a big lead in the next Ryder Cup too.  I think that is going to be a tough thing because there's going to be guys that potentially aren't going to be playing their best going into that.  It is going to be kind of a funky type deal. 
 
Q.  As I recall earlier this year you really got recognition at the Masters for your play there.  Was there any feeling after you won in Georgia last week, maybe I got one in Georgia, that I should have got one before, anything like that?
 
CHRIS DiMARCO: Actually Georgia was a great state for me this year.  I finished 6th in Atlanta, 10th at Augusta, 16th at PGA and won at the Buick so my record there was pretty good.  That was my first time at Augusta.  I don't think too many rookies go in there and win - not thinking I couldn't win.  Going in the last day I was two shots back.  Certainly I believed in myself.  But I have got to grasp on what everything is like now there, and you know, really I didn't feel like too much of a rookie.  I have been watching The Masters for 20 years  and you hear the announcers on No. 12 say:   He hit it in the middle of the bunker.  Everybody aims over the middle of the bunker.  I knew that from watching it for the last 20 years on TV.  So you know, I know they made some changes this year.  The course is going to play longer next year, I am sure that's going to make a big difference.  
 
Q.  Is that the only time you have ever said anything good about Georgia?
 
CHRIS DiMARCO: No, I like Georgia.  In fact my kids can go to Georgia.  They just can't go to Florida State or Tennessee. 
 
Q.  Times must change.  I could remember when nobody would Florida  (inaudible) --
 
CHRIS DiMARCO: When you win, what is it, 11 of the last 12 games, the contingent of Georgia fans has calmed down a little bit. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT