MARCONI PENNSYLVANIA CLASSIC
September 19, 2001
Chris DiMarco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CHRIS DiMARCO:   The course is great.  This is an unbelievable test, just like last year at Waynesborough.  The greens are hard.  They are fast.  The rough is tough.  You've got to work it different ways off the tees.  If the wind and the conditions stay the same, it's going to be single digits winning.  That's what personally I think it will be at. 
 
Q.  What's the mindset for this week? 
 
CHRIS DiMARCO:   I don't know.  I've never done this before.  Luckily, I get to play with Furyk and Dudley Hart; he's a teammate of mine.  I've played golf with him the last four years of college.  So it's going to be relaxing out there.  I'm just going to keep playing good.  I've been playing good, so I'm just going to keep doing it. 
 
Q.  What about in terms of playing after being in St.  Louis last week, being shut down and everything is fairly fresh?
 
CHRIS DiMARCO:   I don't think anybody can dismiss thoughts of last week.  I think, obviously, it was probably the biggest tragedy to happen, in my lifetime, to America.  My prayers still go to them and my thoughts still go to them.  But if I'm thinking about that while I'm trying to play  -- obviously, I can make forget about it for five hours while I play golf, and then it's still right there when I'm done.  So I'm just going to go out and try to focus and play golf.  
 
Q.  You talked last week and several others about going out on the range and essentially going through the motions.  Is that any different this week?  Are you sensing a little bit more focus of what you are doing?
 
CHRIS DiMARCO:   There's a little bit more sense of normalcy happening now than there was last week.  I think last week, it was just such a shock.  I think everybody was kind of shocked.  It was such surreal pictures that you were seeing.  I don't think anybody thought it was really happening.  And once the shock of it; that it was real and you got over it, you know, you have to just go through the types of emotions.  First you are shocked, and then by the end of the week you are angry and then you want some retribution.  You know, thankfully, I don't have to make any of those decisions.  That's our President's and that's why we elected him, and I'm going to stand behind him, whatever he does. 
 
Q.  If the decision had been made to go to the Ryder Cup and you would have been on the team, how would you have reacted? 
 
CHRIS DiMARCO:   I'm sure I would have been a little scared, for sure.  I know that Tim (Finchem) would have taken all of the security precautions that would have been necessary to deal with it.  Obviously, I would have went over, but I would probably have been a little worried, for sure.  
 
Q.  How weird is to defend your title on a different golf course, different part of the state?
 
CHRIS DiMARCO:   It's really weird, though, the courses remind me a lot of each other.  A little tricky with the greens, a lot of undulations and they are fast.  A lot of good driving holes; you've got to work it one way or the other.  It is a little, obviously  -- I'd like to go back to Waynesborough.  I have a lot of good memories there, but hopefully we'll make some new memories this year. 
 
Q.  In the wake of this thing, will you change the way you do business in terms of playing, in terms of your own precautions?  What's going to change for you? 
 
CHRIS DiMARCO:   I am.  Myself, I've talked to a lot of guys; we are trying to look into one of these jet programs that would be the most feasible for us.  Not so worried about myself as I am flying my family.  You know, it would be devastating if anything ever happened to them and if I put them in harm's way because they were coming out to go watch me play.  But it is our way of life, so they do have to come out.  So, you know, safety measures, I don't think you'll ever see anything happen like it happened.  I think that we have hopefully smartened up and made some changes and anything like that won't ever happen again.  But I am definitely looking into the jet programs. 
 
Q.  A lot of other guys are? 
 
CHRIS DiMARCO:   A lot of other guys are. 
 
Q.  Drive home from St.  Louis?
 
CHRIS DiMARCO:   Drove home from St.  Louis.  14 hours.  
 
Q.  Do you get a sense of the mood of the other guys out here?  Everybody has their own feelings, but do you get a sense that they really do want to play this week and get back to the real world? 
 
CHRIS DiMARCO:   Yeah.  I think everybody is ready to play.  I mean, obviously, like I said, I think we are all still thinking about that up there.  I mean, obviously, it's going to take a long time for that  -- it will never probably be erased from any of our memories.  And so for that reason alone, you've got to move on, because, I mean, I know that that image of that plane hitting that building is going to be with me forever.  So I've just got to go on with it.  Life must move on.  Obviously, we are still thinking and hoping and praying that there's more people that are still alive somewhere.  But, know, I think everybody is ready to play.  
 
Q.  Are you early tomorrow?
 
CHRIS DiMARCO:   Yes,  8:15.  
 
Q.  I don't mean to make this trivial by any means, but when they have that moment or remembrance at noon, are you going to have to a pay tension to where you are time-wise when the siren goes off?
 
CHRIS DiMARCO:   I think the officials will be running around telling us probably five minutes beforehand that we are getting ready to do that.  I think it's a great thing we are doing.  It's good.  I like the flags on the pins.  I think the U.S. flags on them, I think that's great.  I think that you've seen, just from me, just from my own opinion, I think I've seen the country unite just so much in this last week.  It's unbelievable.  All of these trivial problems we are having within our own country I have seen vanish and we have all kind of united and we are about the same thing.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT