INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY QWEST
August 3, 2001
Chris DiMarco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CHRIS DiMARCO:   You know, starting on 10 is brutal.  So I hit two really good shots.  I hit a driver and a 6-iron to about 12 feet.  Hit a good putt.  Didn't go in.  Hit an 8-iron right over the top of the flag at 11 that went about  -- I had to putt through about eight feet of fringe and I ended up knocking it by about three feet.  Even though I started out par, bogey, I felt really good because I hit a lot of good shots.  And I hit two good shots on 13 and made an easy birdie.  And made about a 5-footer on 14.  Hit it about two feet on 16. And chipped it to about a foot on 17.  So that got me going really well.  Made about an 8-footer on 2.  Made a good downhill 15-footer on 6.  Broke about two different ways.  Then I hit a good chip on 8 to about four or five feet past the hole, and that green was really fast.  I made a good putt.  9, I had a 6- or 7-footer up the hill, right-to-left, so it was really solid.  
 
Q.  Talk about your year so far.  I know you had like six Top-10s and contending at the Masters.  Take us through your year and how you've been playing?
 
CHRIS DiMARCO:   I've been playing really solid.  I feel like  -- I think it is my 19th out of 22 cuts so I've been making a lot of cuts.  I know I've had a bunch of Top-20s.  So I put myself in good position a lot, and I've been a lot more consistent this year.  You know, today is just Friday.  We have two more days.  You know, there's a lot of points out there to be had.  Just, luckily, I played well the last two days and was able to make a lot of birdies today.  The putts fell today.  I didn't really make too many yesterday.  I birdied two of my last four to kind of make a good round out of it.  
 
Q.  You played 22 events; are you fatigued, weary, running out of steam?
 
CHRIS DiMARCO:   Man, no.  We're athletes.  Really, I've played 22, but I just  -- I've only played one in the last five weeks, because I played the British.  I Chicago, Milwaukee, B.C. and then Quad Cities off, so this is only my second tournament. 
 
Q.  Do you have steel plates on your shoes?
 
CHRIS DiMARCO:   I just put them in at the British because I slipped a little bit.  I used them forever, and the last year and a half I went back to soft and I went back to spikes this week.  
 
Q.  So do you feel like this was a pivotal here for you like you said?  You've been consistent; does this feel like an important year? 
 
CHRIS DiMARCO:   Not really.  I mean, other than the fact that, you know, I'm playing well.  I've played really well last year.  I finished 19th on the Money List last year, so I had a good year last year.  It's good, because the expectations are there, to do that again, and the way I played this year, I put myself in position to do that, so that feels good, certainly.  You know, my goal is to win one, maybe one of these next three and get in the Ryder Cup.  I know I'm not that far behind.  I think I'm like 20th or something.  
 
Q.  Do you have to block that out when you are playing?  You're this close, to things like the Ryder Cup  --
 
CHRIS DiMARCO:   Yeah, you've got to.  This game is hard enough if you start putting other things in your mind.  These greens are really fast.  Got a lot of tough tee balls, got a lot of tough second shots out here.  You put other stuff in your mind, you are really going to be in trouble.  I think, obviously, that's a maturity thing and growing up, and I think I've done that in the last two or three years where I'm able to play golf and let the circumstances of how I play  -- not worry about what I'm doing about about on the course and then worry about it afterwards.  
 
Q.  How long have you been using that putting grip? 
 
CHRIS DiMARCO:   About six years.  
 
Q.  Six years? 
 
CHRIS DiMARCO:   Six years.  Calcavecchia learned it from me.  (Laughs). 
 
Q.  Where did you learn it? 
 
CHRIS DiMARCO:   Skip Kendall showed me that.  Basically, it's a long putter grip with a short putter.  Just takes my right hand out and let's me put with my left side and helps me stroke the ball.   He putts with the right hand.  That was my problem hand.  That's what I'm trying to get out.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT