CANON GREATER HARTFORD OPEN
June 29, 2001
Chris DiMarco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CHRIS DIMARCO:   Really?  Yeah, I saw that bunched out there the whole day.  It was a tougher day today, I thought.  The wind totally changed directions and a lot of the holes, like No. 1, I hit driver sand wedge into yesterday, and it was a driver 5-iron today.  It played a lot tougher, I thought.  Even like 10 and 12 was even a lot longer hole.  This is a tougher wind when it blows like this.  I started on the back.  I made a good up-and-down on 10.  I hit it right of the bunker and chipped it like a foot.  Made a real great good par.  2 putted 11. Hit in the right bunker on 12.  Hit it about two feet and made a good putt.  Then I laid up L-wedge to about an inch.  I don't know how it didn't go in, curled down and just missed.  Parred the next hole.  Missed a 5-footer on the short par 5 for birdie. Got up-and-down on 16.  17, I hit a 7-iron about 20 feet and made that for birdie.  18, I hit it in the right side bunker.  Hit it in the green-side bunker, I don't know how, but it plugged.  The bunkers are really good.  Plugged; left it in the bunker and I made about a 10-footer for bogey which was nice.  12, missed the fairway.  Hit it on the green and made  -- really hard putt.  Slow putt, about five feet, and made that for par.  Parred 2. Hit a 7-iron in there about 12 feet on No. 3.  Made that for birdie.  Made a really good up-and-down on 4.  Drove it right.  Had to lay up and L-wedged it to about eight feet behind the hole and a really good down-the-hill putt there.  Good up-and-down on the next hole out of the right bunker chipped it out about three or four inches.  Hit a driver, 3-wood and a little sand wedge into No.  6 to about four feet behind the hole and made that for birdie.   Parred 7.  8, I hit a 5-iron and it landed about five feet right of the hole and just trickled over the back of the green.  I had two sprinklers in my way so I had to putt and chipped it by about eight feet and missed it.  
 

Q.  Was the wind solely responsible for the way the scoring just seemed to take an about-face from yesterday or is it just playing out-and-out hard to go low here two days in a row?
 
CHRIS DIMARCO:  No, totally it was a lot harder today.  You're looking at holes like 12, usually driver, sand iron and it's driver,  5-, 6-iron.  13 is not reachable for most people  -- for a few people, it is.  14 played harder.  All the holes, that if the wind is blowing the other way, if it's driver, wedge, you're now hitting driver, 4-iron, 5-iron, 6-iron.  When the wind is in your face I think the fairways are a lot harder to hit.  I know I missed six fairways.  Luckily, I hit it in five bunkers.  You can play out of the bunkers.  You can't play out of the rough. 
 

Q.  Is that maybe why nobody was able to run away or open a gap here or anything?
 
CHRIS DIMARCO:   I guess.  I can't really explain it.  I felt like I played a really good round of golf today and shot 3-under.  I made two bogeys.  I've only made two bogeys all week.  So, you know, it's a hard golf course.  I mean, just because the scores are low here every year, it's a hard golf course.  There's only two par 5s.  
 

Q.  When is the last time you remember so many guys bunched up after 36 holes? 
 
CHRIS DIMARCO:   I have no idea.  I have no clue.  I don't really  -- 36 holes, I try not to worry about.  I just try to put myself in a position.  Even 54, try to get in position, and try to get in position on the last nine on Sunday.  That's all really you can do is give yourself a chance at it.  I would like to go out and shoot 62 tomorrow and then shoot 30 and have like a ten-shot lead on the back nine.  But I'll just try to keep doing what I'm doing.  I'm putting and chipping really good.  My short game is really good. It's just a matter of hitting a few more fairways and making it not so hard on me out there.  I think I only hit like ten greens today and shot 3-under, so I had a lot of good up-and-downs. 
 

Q.  Is that a good or bad sign that you are starting to miss fairways and greens?
 
CHRIS DIMARCO:   You know, actually I hit a lot of good shots that just either trickled over a green.  It's a good sign.  If you are chipping and putting good, that's a good thing.  The long game, you can always fix.  It's just, you know, I hit  -- it was just tougher driving today.  The course played harder.  Some of these holes don't really set up good when the wind is blowing a certain direction, for me.  Just a matter of hitting straight and hitting on the green and making putts.  I guess that's the old saying, isn't it?  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT