KEMPER INSURANCE OPEN
May 24, 2001
Chris DiMarco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CHRIS DiMARCO:  Thank you.  
 
CHRIS DiMARCO:  It's drying out there, which is nice.  It's still kind of wet.  Got off to kind of a poor start.  I 3-putted No. 2 for bogey.  And I 3-putted No. 5 for bogey, was 2 over par through 5.  And hit a good shot on 6, about 20 feet and made birdie, 2-putted for birdie.  I had a good shot on 7, about four feet and made birdie there, driver, 6-iron.  8, I lipped out, a driver, 4-iron.  9, I hit a little 9-iron about 20 feet left and made that for birdie.  10, I 2-putted for par.  11, I hit a 9-iron about 15 feet, made that for birdie.  12, I missed about an 8-footer for birdie.  13, I hit driver, 2-iron just short of the green, chipped it up a foot and made birdie.  The next one I hit a 3-wood about 60 yards from the hole, hit an L-wedge about 40 feet, and made a birdie there.  Hit driver 8-iron the next hole, about 15 feet behind the hole and made birdie.  Driver, 9-iron about 10 feet and made birdie on 16.  Hit a good putt on 17, didn't go in, caught the right lip.  And hit 2 good shots on 18 and left it a little short the last hole. 
 

Q.  When you were sitting there 2 over after 5 holes, what were you thinking?
 
CHRIS DiMARCO:  I was thinking five-day weekend, looking good (laughter.)  Five days before I have to play again.  But, no, in all actuality I was.  But I knew I was playing good.  I hadn't hit a bad shot, a couple of bad putts.  The course was there, if you can hit it in the fairway, and that's what I do.  I hit 14 fairways out of 14 today.  You put the ball in there 14 times, you're going to hit some good shots, and I did. 
 

Q.  Chris, could you talk a little bit about the weekend at the Masters, and the difference that might have made to you in your career, and just in your whole mental outlook?
 
CHRIS DiMARCO:  That was fun.  It was a lot bigger press room than this (laughter.)  It was neat.  It was so -- I guess I had never really saw the whole ramifications of how big it really was, and I was kind of playing in the moment.  Looking back, people I'm talking to and see that they watched it that don't even watch golf, that part of it is pretty big.  It's a golf tournament, just like any other golf tournament.  We play these 35 times a year, so my goal is to win every one.  And today you can just put yourself in the position to do that, and you're just trying to not shoot yourself out of the tournament.  A lot of golf left, I can promise you that. 
 

Q.  Did it do anything for you confidence-wise in terms of --?
 
CHRIS DiMARCO:  Sure, in the biggest spectacle there is, with the world watching, I proved that I can play under that type of pressure, so as far as that goes, it meant a lot for me.  If you can perform there, you think you can perform anywhere. 
 

Q.  Just looking back at that weekend, are there certain shots you play over in your mind?  Is there some scenario that you've constructed where I could have won that thing?
 
CHRIS DiMARCO:  You know, that tournament, yeah, obviously every tournament that you don't win you go back and do that to.  But I'm a lot more concerned about this week right now, to tell you the truth.  I'm more concerned about the next three days and getting myself in position to win again. 
 

Q.  This course is known for catching off streaks of birdies.  Does it feel like that and does it suit your game?
 
CHRIS DiMARCO:  With the fairways being as soft as they are, you don't have to hit -- I did drive it really well today.  I didn't miss too many middle of the fairways, which was nice.  You can get away with some drives that are off line because they're so soft and not rolling that much.  But if you do that and you've got lift clean and place, the fairways are perfect, and the greens are receptive, so it's a matter of getting it on line. 
 

Q.  How long did it take you to come down to earth after Augusta?  And if right away, and if it was just a matter of next day back to work --?
 
CHRIS DiMARCO:  No, I took a week off.  I got to go home and relax.  It was a pretty big mental strain that week for sure.  But I teed it up on Thursday at Houston.  That was over with and there was another tournament to go on. 
 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
CHRIS DiMARCO:  It was another tournament, I wasn't tough at all.  I finished 10th at the Masters.  I felt good going into the next tournament, for sure. 
 

Q.  Today when you saw yourself up at the top of the leaderboard, I know you won last year, does it feel any more natural having seen it up there so recently at the Masters?
 
CHRIS DiMARCO:  Today?  
 

Q.  Yes. 
 
CHRIS DiMARCO:  Obviously, the last time wasn't the first time it happened.  It's nice to look up there and see nobody above your name, for sure.  I remember somebody last year asked me in Pennsylvania the day before I won on Saturday, saying, "Would you rather be in the position where you're at or be a couple of shots back?"  I said, "I'd rather be a couple of shots ahead.  Let people try to catch me."  I hope I stay there the whole week. 
 

Q.  Just looking over your record this year from tournament to tournament, it seems like you've shot 5, 6-under par quite a few times this year.  Is that the norm for you or is that something that shows improvement in your game?
 
CHRIS DiMARCO:  You know, I think ever since the last tournament in '99, I think I've elevated my game to a new level for sure.  I finished 2nd there.  And then I had two other seconds last year before I finally won.  It's just experience.  It's just getting there and knowing how you react under that kind of stuff.  And sometimes you react really good, and you're going to have bad days and good days.  
 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
CHRIS DiMARCO:  I was in Jackson.  
 

Q.  Looks like from your shot by shot that you made 6 putts in a pretty decent length between 18 and 20 feet.  To give the person that's not a pro, how good a round of putting is that to make 6 pretty difficult putts?
 
CHRIS DiMARCO:  I think I had 29 putts with two 3-putts.  You take away the first five holes and it was a good putting round.  I think I had nine 1-putts in the last 14 holes.  It was pretty solid.  The greens were tough, too, they were bouncy and they were spongy, so it was -- they just went in.  Some days they go in.  I just made sure I got them to the hole, if I was hitting there they went in, so I was making sure I got them there. 
 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
CHRIS DiMARCO:  What about it?  
 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
CHRIS DiMARCO:  It's just the way I putt.  It's basically a long putter grip with a short putter.  I use it to try to take my right hand out, I try to use my left side. 
 

Q.  Who taught it to you?
 
CHRIS DiMARCO:  Skip Kendall showed it to me.  I kind of looked at him like he was crazy when he first showed it to me, but I'm kind of glad he did it now. 
 

Q.  What kind of recognition have you gotten since The Masters in terms of people knowing who you are?  Is it just on the golf course?  Is it off the golf course?
 
CHRIS DiMARCO:  Yeah, it's nothing major, I don't think.  A few more people notice me here and there.  I don't think it's anything overwhelming, for sure, which is nice to tell you the truth. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT