SEI PENNSYLVANIA CLASSIC
September 15, 2000
Chris DiMarco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 CHRIS DiMARCO: Actually, 10, I made a par on 10, but it was a really good par that hole
is really, really playing tough. I hooked it in the left rough and I hit a 2-iron over in
the bunker and I chipped it out about four feet, and that just kind of relaxed me, making
that putt and going on. And then the first birdie was on No. 14, the par 3. I hit a 6-iron
about 15 feet behind the hole, had a pretty straight putt and made it. Bogeyed 16. I hit a
good shot. My second shot went long over the green and I actually chipped it up about
seven feet and missed it for par. Then I hit a really good 3-iron next hole right at 17 to
seven feet. Then on 18 I hit driver 3-wood about 18 feet short, putted up an inch, made
birdie there. Then 5, the par 5, I hit driver, 3-wood just left of the green. Chipped it
up about four feet and made birdie. 8, I hit 3-wood and little pitching wedge about eight,
10 feet short and made that one and that was it.  
 
Q. How did the wind affect play today?
 
 CHRIS DiMARCO: Luckily, I got to play in the Pro-Am and the Pro-Am was the same exact
wind. So it was very similar to that; so it was nice. The greens are really soft. And for
as fast as they are, it's really hard to get the ball close because you're just spinning
the ball everywhere. I hit 6-irons that are backing up 20 feet. So it's really hard to
play that, especially some of the back pins where you know long is absolutely dead. 
 
Q. Did the course play much longer today? 
 
 CHRIS DiMARCO: It was weird because yesterday it was almost a little different wind.
The holes that played long yesterday played shorter today and the holes that played
shorter today played longer today. So, it's a good course. A lot of long holes on it. So
you're going to have some 6-, 4- , 5-irons into some greens, and I'm hitting those pretty
good this week. So that's a good thing. 
 
Q. How long did your round take? 
 
 CHRIS DiMARCO: How long did it take? I don't know, four hours -- no, more than that.
Five hours. 
 
Q. Did you get the grinding feeling? 
 
 CHRIS DiMARCO: Not really. We waited a little bit. It's about normal out here; four and
a half to five hours. That's like nothing out of the ordinary. There's way too much slow
play out here, so it's -- it's there. But, you know, this is a long course. We played
lift, clean and place, and the greens are real big and undulating; it's going to take a
long time to play. It's not like you're putting 20-footers to six inches. You're going to
have a lot and 3- and 4-footers, and with the greens being as fast as they are, you have
to take your time on those. 
 
Q. How would you describe your season to this point? 
 
 CHRIS DiMARCO: I've played really well. You know, obviously my goal is Top-30, and
right now I think I'm like 40. Trying to get to a number. Obviously, winning would help
quite a bit. So, you know, it's been a good season. I had a couple seconds. I've been
close. Put myself into position to win. Hopefully I've learned from those and I'll go out
and keep playing good.  
 
Q. Is the run at the Top-30 the primary reason you're here this week?
 
 CHRIS DiMARCO: Not really. I mean, I like northeastern-type courses. So, you know,
coming here, knowing that nobody has played here, you know, that's always a good thing.
Nobody has an advantage over you because they have played here 15 times or whatever.
Nobody knows the greens. It's a first time for everybody; so that's partly why I came.  
 
Q. Do you have to fight that goal, that Top-30, from creeping into your mind? 
 
 CHRIS DiMARCO: Yeah. You know, it's easy for everybody -- you guys, to have that
number, the bubble guys and all that, but, you know, if you think about it, you're in
trouble. So, you know, I try not to let myself think about it. I mean, you're just trying,
you know, you do the best you can, and hopefully at the end, you know, you finish in the
Top-30. 
 
Q. Where did you develop your putting grip? 
 
 CHRIS DiMARCO: Yeah, it is a little awkward, isn't it? Skip Kendall, we played in 1995
in a mini-tournament after the season, and I was putting terribly and he said, "Try
this." And I looked at him and I said, "You've got to be crazy." The next
day I went out and played I had one of these putts I just know I've been having trouble
with and I tried it and, boy, I just stroked it right in the middle -- wow. So that was
five years ago. Basically it's like a long putter grip with a short putter. Takes my right
hand out and I just putt with my left side. Calcavecchia is doing it right now. He saw me
doing it and now he's doing it and he's having a whole bunch of Top-5's. 
 
Q. Any residual checks? 
 
 CHRIS DiMARCO: I told him I want 10 percent but I haven't seen one yet. 
 
Q. Who do you like in that 3:30 kickoff tomorrow? 
 
 CHRIS DiMARCO: Well, I guess I'm going to have to say I like Florida. I don't know,
there's something going on. If we're favored by three, in that stadium, then they must not
be too good this year. So hopefully we can prove that right.  
 
Q. Do you still have your -- was it a van, a bus?
 
 CHRIS DiMARCO: I traded the van in. I had a Gator van. I did. I traded it in last year.
 
 
Q. Why did you trade it in? 
 
 CHRIS DiMARCO: Because I had to drive in the off-season, and if you lose to Georgia --
in Florida State, it's a pain to drive that thing around.  
 
Q. Has there been any reaction in the locker room to the news about Tiger's $100
million contract? 
 
 CHRIS DiMARCO: You know what, I heard about it last night at like 11:30 on ESPN.
Somebody said something about it on the range. He's worth it, that's for sure.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT