BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
March 14, 2008
Chris DiMarco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Good score today and you're right up there. 
 CHRIS DiMARCO:  Yeah, it was tough out there today. 
 You know, the thing I've done real well is I've hit a lot of greens.  I think I've it hit 32 of 36 greens the past two days.  Not putting much pressure on myself, just hitting good shots and driving it well and hitting really solid shots even in this wind. 

 Q.  Is that something you've not been doing? 
 CHRIS DiMARCO:  You know what, it's funny.  My wife in the Pro-Am on Wednesday said, she said, "You used to kind of like stick your butt out like you were wearing a dress."  And I've been having a lot of trouble trying to square up and it's amazing the simplicity of her comment, and sure enough, that just kind of kicked everything right into gear, and I have just hit so many solid shots all week. 

Q.  It's amazing how you find the solution sometimes? 
 CHRIS DiMARCO:  It's been very good actually.  Just kind of stuck it out a little bit, yeah, to get my back straighter and my hips get square and it just gets me in a good position to start out with and then swinging nice and smooth and it's going. 

 Q.  You must truly love that woman? 

 CHRIS DiMARCO:  I know she likes looking at my butt, but when she notices it in my golf swing, then it's something good. 

 Q.  So now you're in the mode to go try to win the tournament which hasn't been there? 
 CHRIS DiMARCO:  Yeah, absolutely, let's go win it now, put myself in good position.  Anthony is playing really good, too.  I think we only had one bogey in our group today.  In this kind of wind, it's pretty good. 

 Q.  Feel good to be back up there? 
 CHRIS DiMARCO:  It does.  It feels good to have a chance, and it feels good to be hitting solid shots and having it go where I want to go and not having that odd shot.  For me when I'm not playing well, I have a little shot that goes left, and that's what I've been fighting a little bit, and I haven't hit one this week like that. 
 So when I don't hit them like that, it's not my mind and while I'm thinking about it, I can swing a lot more aggressively. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT