BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
March 13, 2008
Chris DiMarco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Thoughts on your round?   
 CHRIS DiMARCO:  I hit the ball fantastic today.  The last hole, this rough out here, the ball sits up so high and I went up underneath it and got a little heavy and out to the right.  Other than that, I played pretty good golf; two 3-putts were my only bogeys.   
 70 around here is all right.  It was windy early and then it calmed down and looks like hopefully tomorrow it will hold off and be nice.   
  
  Q.  A step in the right direction?   
 CHRIS DiMARCO:  Yeah, a good step in the right direction, yeah.  First round of golf I've played in a long time where I had one swing thought the whole day and that was about it and didn't think about anything else.  That tends to be a good thing.  I played the par 3s fantastic, birdied three of the four and missed about a 6-footer on the other one.  I'm looking forward to tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  Good to have uncluttered thoughts and not thinking about all sorts of erroneous things?   
 CHRIS DiMARCO:  Yeah, solid shots, that's the key.  Like I said, the last hole was probably the only unsolid shot I hit the whole day.  My second shot I hit a 3-iron off the downslope trying  to get it over that stuff, and maybe a little too much in my mind instead of just hitting the golf shot and came up a little short.   
  
  Q.  Is this the kind of course that you've got to learn your way around it?   
 CHRIS DiMARCO:  You know, I think so.  It's pretty wide open off the tee but you still have to get it in position.  You know you have to take care of the par 5s.  I only birdied one of them today, and I had a chance to get to two of the other ones and didn't get there.   
 The whole thing is just playing consistent golf and giving yourself chances for birdies.   
  
  Q.  Presumably it was windier when you started to when you finished.   
 CHRIS DiMARCO:  It was, it was really windy but I birdied three of the first five, so it was good.  Obviously made a good putt the first hole, and then two I hit in there pretty close and made two.   
 Like I said today is the first day, try to putt yourself in position.  Tomorrow hopefully the weather will hold off and we'll have a nice round of golf and we'll see what happens for the weekend.   
  
  Q.  Hold off; not gale force winds for the weekend?   
 CHRIS DiMARCO:  Gale force for the weekend, is that what they are calling for?   
  
  Q.  Since you birdied the opening holes in the wind.   
 CHRIS DiMARCO:  No, I'm good.  I'd rather play in calm conditions to tell you the truth.   
  
  Q.  You seemed to be frustrated around the turn when your group was told to speed up a bit.   
 CHRIS DiMARCO:  I was fine.  I know that it happened.  We had a big ruling on No. 7 that took probably about 20 minutes, and that got us behind and we never really kind of caught up.  Felt like we were running out there to tell you the truth.  I'm a pretty fast player and I felt like even I was trying to hit it pretty quick.   
 You know, I like it.  I actually like playing fast.  I think it was a good thing and we didn't really wait at all.   
  
  Q.  Course set up like Abu Dhabi, isn't it?   
 CHRIS DiMARCO:  Yeah, it's just a different golf course, Abu Dhabi.  Today there was some very accessible pins.  I don't know if they are expecting more winds than they got, but you know, it's just one of those courses where if you hit it in play, you're going to have a lot of chances for birdie and you are not hitting too many long irons in.  The 18th hole is really the only long par 4 out there.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT