WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 5, 2007
Chris DiMarco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Pretty good week.  You've got to be happy about getting back to obviously playing Chris DiMarco golf again.   
 CHRIS DiMARCO:  Yeah, it was good, solid rounds out there the whole week, not too many bogeys.  Made one double on No. 9 was my only double of the week, missed about a three-footer.  Other than that, it was just good, solid play.  I scrambled real well and I got back to feeling comfortable out there, and I think that's the key.   
  
  Q.  When you see how Tiger is playing and you see how he's separating himself --   
 CHRIS DiMARCO:  You know, I had other demons out there that I was trying to worry about.  I wasn't worried about Tiger, to tell you the truth.  Once I saw that he was 8 up with four to go, I thought let's just bring this thing home for me.   
  
  Q.  How big is this for you?  You have the PGA coming up, Presidents Cup coming up?   
 CHRIS DiMARCO:  Hopefully Mr. Nicklaus is watching and seeing my game is coming around.  I'm on the right track.  I had a good British Open, had a good chance there, finished poorly:  Bogey, double.  I desperately want to be on that team.  I haven't really voiced that because I haven't had anything to prove it.  But my game has been really consistent.  Obviously near and dear to me after what happened last time, and hopefully this moved me up close to where he looks at me now.  It certainly would be an honor to play for him again.   
  
  Q.  Do you think he might remember who made the last putt last time?   
 CHRIS DiMARCO:  I'm hoping he remembers that really well.  I'm hoping he's thinking about that every night.  That was a total team effort, I just happened to be the one to make the putt.  Like I said, team sports is team golf, which we don't get to do much.  That is my favorite thing we get to do.  I would ultimately love to be on that team and be part of that.   
  
  Q.  Was the physical turnaround just getting healthy?   
 CHRIS DiMARCO:  I think so.  Certainly I was unhealthy last year.  The start of this year I wasn't healthy and wasn't really playing that well.  Not playing good golf kind of breeds lack of confidence, and the last 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 weeks I've really started to turn it around and play a lot better golf.  I've thrown so much money around on Sunday, on the weekend, on the last four or five holes this year.  If I could go back and play all the holes even par coming in, I'd be like 5 on the Money List probably.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT