WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 3, 2007
Chris DiMarco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Florida Gator, good playing today, Chris, not bad.  You're even par on the day, 1-under for the tournament, good position.  You gave yourself a lot of opportunities out there. 
 CHRIS DiMARCO:  I did.  I had some good ones on 6 and 7 and didn't make those, but made a great par on No. 9.  The course is really difficult.  You miss a fairway out here, you're just scrambling trying not to make a big number.  My goal this week was to try not to hit two balls out of the rough.  If you can do that -- I feel like my wedge game is good enough to where I'm going to give myself a good putt at it every time.  I've been able to get up-and-down from 60 to 80 yards about five or six times the last two days, so that's huge out here. 

 Q.  73 yards there on No. 9.  I was impressed with that up-and-down for par because that tee shot put you in a little bit of trouble. 
 CHRIS DiMARCO:  That tee, I think I could stand on that tee, give me 100 balls and I don't know if I could ever hit that fairway.  I was trying to swing as hard as I could and hopefully maybe carry that left bunker and get a good kick, and I just kind of double-crossed it.  Like I said, I took an 8-iron out and put it to a good number, I wanted it somewhere between 70 and 80 yards and I hit it up there and was able to hit a good L-wedge in there and make a good putt. 
 My wedge game is great.  I've just got to get some more fairways.  If I can get some more fairways I'll be right where I need to be. 

 Q.  How hard is this golf course getting this afternoon? 
 CHRIS DiMARCO:  It was tough.  The wind is up.  You just know that the fairways are only 20, 25 yards wide, and if you miss it you're just struggling.  It's hard on the tees to get up there and make yourself hit good, solid golf shots, but if you can put it in the fairway you can score. 

 Q.  You're in good position at -1, there's still two days left.  Stay patient, that's the key, play well this weekend. 
 CHRIS DiMARCO:  It is.  Walk slow down the fairways and be patient.  The ball is not -- just because you get there quicker it's not going to get a better lie.  It's going to be there no matter how long it takes to get there. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT