THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2007
Chris DiMarco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Talk about your round today.   
 CHRIS DiMARCO:  I played very solidly today.  A 69 around this golf course is very good.  I was able to drive it in the fairway a lot, hit a lot of greens.  I hit lot of really good putts out there that didn't fall.  I feel like I'm doing a lot of good out there and looking forward to tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  Seems like a lot of guys are coming in with the under-par numbers.  Are you figuring out the course changes?   
 CHRIS DiMARCO:  I don't think the wind blew as hard as it did the first few days.  The green speed is not overly fast, and I think that's why you're seeing some low scores.  Guys are able to be aggressive on first putts.  You're not having to worry about the greens being 13, 14 like they normally are out here.  They're slower than that.  I think it gives guys more aggression on the greens.   
  
  Q.  Are you looking at a number to shoot out there tomorrow?   
 CHRIS DiMARCO:  I'm not going to get ahead of myself.  I'm going to think about the first hole and after that move on from there.  Obviously try to put a good number up on the front and get myself in contention on the back, and play good, solid golf on the back nine.   
  
  Q.  Regardless of whether or not you win tomorrow, what has this done for your confidence?   
 CHRIS DiMARCO:  It's been great for my confidence.  Obviously it's the first week I really feel like I haven't been bothered by my injury.  And I've been able to go out and play golf and not worry about it and just put it behind me.  If I'm able to do that, then good things can happen.   
 My swing feels great.  I'm hitting the ball as good as I've hit it in a long time.  That's the key to why I'm up there is because I'm hitting the ball solid.   
  
  Q.  You're going to have a big crowd watching tomorrow?   
 CHRIS DiMARCO:  There's a lot of Gators out there.  That's a good thing.  It's great to have all those "Go Gators" between every hole.  My dad is up here, my wife will be here tomorrow, my son will be here and a lot of other family.  It's going to be a fun day.   
  
  Q.  What's your routine going to be like until then?   
 CHRIS DiMARCO:  Same routine I did today.  I laid around in bed until about noon and got up and took a shower.  These 2:00 tee times are killers, but they're good.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT