U.S. SENIOR OPEN
June 27, 2019
Chris DiMarco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Nice scorecard; lots of birdies?  
CHRIS DiMARCO: Yeah, I hit it just a little right on No. 1 and was in a -- not a bad lie, and I hit a wedge, it just flew everything, it was 15, 18 yards over the green.  I was scratching my head going, What do I do from here?   
Didn't want to leave it short, chipped it over the green.  I made a good 15-footer for bogey on No. 1, which kind of -- took a deep breath, birdied No. 2, which got me back where I needed to be.   
Next stretch of 3, 4, 5, and 6 is brutal.  I knew that only being 1-over through that, I was okay, and then I started hitting the ball exactly where I was looking.  Hit it -- hit a beautiful 5-iron on 8, made birdie.  Hit a beautiful shot on 9 that spun back, good par.  10, I hit it in there about five feet, made birdie.  11 and 12 I had two good looks inside 15 feet.   
Birdied 13, lipped out on 14, birdied 15, hit a great shot on 16 to about four and a half, five feet, thought I made it dead center, it snapped at the end.   
Good up-and-down on 17 out of the bunker, and a good up-and-down on 18.  Just a good, solid round of golf.  I missed it in all the right spots, which was good.   
 Q.  So it wasn't just good putting, it was good striking and all?  
CHRIS DiMARCO: I drove the ball really well.  I think I only missed maybe three or four fairways, and the good thing about it out here is if you do miss fairways, they give you an opportunity to get to the green.  So I just made sure that when I missed the fairway, I missed it in the right spot for my next shot.   
And my chipping has been good.  I've been working hard on it.  My putting has been good and been working hard on that.  So just a matter of getting up there and doing my thing and just kind of staying within myself, slowing down, and kind of enjoying the moment.   
 Q.  Mentally, what goes into bouncing back from bogeying two of your first four?  How do you go about that?  
CHRIS DiMARCO: Well, thankfully I had a birdie in there.  And again, like I said earlier, that stretch of 3, 4, 5 and 6 is brutal.  You're going to make bogeys.  It's just going to happen.  So you don't want to compound them by making bigger numbers.   
Once I got past 6, I knew that the next four or five holes was downwind, and I was going to have a good chance -- good look at some birdies and was able to roll some putts in.  I putted really good today.  I think that was the key.  I pretty much hit every line I looked at, and when you can do that and the speed was right and you make some putts out here, it's going to add up to a low number.   
 Q.  Were you surprised to see the amount of low numbers today, or did the course lend itself to scoring low like that?  
CHRIS DiMARCO: I think that rain last night kind of lended it to.  I think yesterday afternoon I played, it was getting firmer, the greens especially.  I think it made the greens a lot more receptive.   
And, you know, like I said, these guys are good.  You give David Toms soft greens and greens that are about 10 -- not necessarily so fast you have to worry about it, he's going to make a lot of putts.  Same with Steve Stricker and Jerry Kelly and the guys that are up there.   
The conditions are perfect for scoring.  The rough is playable.  The holes -- there's four or five holes that are long that you get by and you make your pars on, and if you can do that, you're going to have a lot of opportunities for birdies.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT