THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2007
Chris DiMarco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Just start with some comments about your round.   
 CHRIS DiMARCO:  Yeah, it was a good, solid round.  I've been looking for that pretty much all year.  It's one of those rounds where I was in control.  I made some good key par putts to keep the round going, to keep the momentum going.   
 That seems to be what's been missing this year for me is that I just haven't been scoring well.  I've been feeling like I've been playing well but have been shooting about as high as I can shoot.  And today was one of those rounds where it might have been one or two better but it could have been two or three worse.  So I definitely grinded out a round out there.   
  
  Q.  Even with all the changes, is experience on this course still a big part of it?   
 CHRIS DiMARCO:  I hope not.  I don't think I've ever finished better than 43rd here, so I like the changes.   
  
  Q.  Does the golf course still identify the guy who's playing best through his bag, or does it favor a precise iron player?   
 CHRIS DiMARCO:  You know, I think what it gives you is it gives you now an opportunity to hit greens if you miss fairways that you normally wouldn't hit.  I think the guy who stays patient and doesn't try to do too much -- I know when I did miss a fairway, I just aimed for middle of greens or I tried to put it somewhere where I could have a chip and a putt to make par because pars are good around here.   
  
  Q.  Does it surprise you that you were able to do what you did and yet a lot of other guys aren't so far?   
 CHRIS DiMARCO:  You know, no.  I mean, the only thing being because of the way I've played this year, but I really felt it coming together last week.  I hit a lot of great shots down the stretch at Wachovia, even though I didn't score real well, but I definitely saw some real good things coming.  And I worked on my game pretty hard this week.   
 Like I said, momentum putts is what it's all about.  I made some good, key momentum putts to keep the round going.  If I made a bogey, I usually came right back with a birdie, and that's what you've got to do around here to keep the momentum going.   
  
  Q.  As of an hour ago there were 20 balls in the water at 17.   
 CHRIS DiMARCO:  That's a scary shot.  You know what, you have to take a deep breath there.  When I got up over it, we had all three had different winds.  Cliff hit a great shot in there 25 feet past the hole with an 8-iron, and Chris Couch hits it a club longer than me and hits 8-iron in the water short.  So now I'm on the tee.  You have to be real precise and pick your shot and hit a good, solid golf shot.   
  
  Q.  What are saying to yourself?   
 CHRIS DiMARCO:  I'm saying, hit a solid shot.  Obviously it was good to see what their balls did, just aim it and hit a solid shot.  As long as you hit it solid there, it's pretty good.  For me, I just put it in the back of my stance, hit 8-iron and just tried to hit it to the back part of the green.   
  
  Q.  You hit 8?   
 CHRIS DiMARCO:  Uh-huh.   
  
  Q.  If the wind dies down, how is this course going to play?   
 CHRIS DiMARCO:  I don't know.  I think what you're saying is because the wind is blowing, guys aren't expecting much and then shooting pretty good scores.  It's out there.  There's certain holes that are difficult.   
 I know I hit a great shot into 16 today.  I hit a 3-iron that landed short of the green and ran all the way through the green and went in the water.  That kind of stuff happens.   
 There's a good situation where three weeks ago I might have gone, geez, there I go, look at that, another bad break.  That's the way it is.  I dropped it, almost made birdie and walked away with a par.   
 The course, as long as you stay patient and don't get ahead of yourself and don't let it get the best of you, even par is a great score around here.  I'm extremely happy at 4-under.   
  
  Q.  Did I overhear in your right shoulder is still --   
 CHRIS DiMARCO:  My left shoulder, yeah.  I've had a couple cortisone shots.  It doesn't hurt anymore, but it's popping at the top of my swing.  You know, when you're playing well -- I guess I didn't really feel it much out there today, so that's a good thing.  You know, I'm going to probably in the off-season have to have some arthroscopic surgery on it, but right now I'm going to play through it.  I haven't played with injuries too much in my career and the last year has been pretty much injury-riddled for me.   
 I'm feeling like I'm back.  I really feel like I'm over that hump, I feel like I've gotten a good round in today, got a lot of rhythm out there.  I really felt like I belonged where I was up there, and that's basically what I haven't been believing.  Belief in yourself is a big thing out here, and my confidence is pretty high right now.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT