FUNAI CLASSIC AT THE WALT DISNEY WORLD RESORT
October 19, 2006
Chris DiMarco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Chris, for joining us for a few minutes here in the media center.  5 under, good start to the week.  Talk about what you did well out there today.
CHRIS DiMARCO:  Well, I got off to a good start, which was nice.  I played the par 5s real well.  Obviously being 5 under through 10 I was expecting it to be a little better than that.  But I played a lot of really good shots out there, drove it well.  If you don't hit it in the fairways out here it's tough to get close because the rough is just long enough to where you can't control your distance.  I'm hoping to hit a lot of fairways tomorrow, get off to a good start and make a bunch of birdies.
Q.  What are your thoughts on just the Tour schedule changing next year and what it might do to tournaments like Disney?
CHRIS DiMARCO:  I think it's unfortunate, so to speak.  I think obviously they're looking for a change, some type of thing to match up against NFL football a little better, thinking that a Super Bowl for us would do it.  I understand the philosophy, but it's unfortunate for the tournaments that have been with us forever, such as this, that are not maybe going to get the top tier players.  They're still going to get a good field and they're still going to get a good show.
Q.  Is a low score on the Mag truly the leader in the clubhouse today given the discrepancy of the scores because you don't just look at the raw numbers but you look at the reality and the difficulty?
CHRIS DiMARCO:  Absolutely the Mag is the tougher of the two for sure, probably at least a shot, maybe two.  Although I think it's playing firmer over at the Mag, whereas the Palm has got some holes that are still kind of soft.  The Mag is still rolling out real well, but the Palm you've got all four par 5s that are reachable and you don't have that at the Mag.

Obviously what they did to 15, 16, 17, 18    14, 15, 16, 17 and 18, there's probably 2,000 yards in those holes at least.
Q.  I know you watch golf a lot on TV.  Is the Golf Channel going to be able to pull this off next year as the primary focal point for the sport for all people watching it?  Do you think they're ready for prime time or do you have any concerns about that, or personnel, because it's going to reflect on the Tour, as well, and ultimately maybe sponsorship issues, and if they're not drawing numbers your wallet gets thin?
CHRIS DiMARCO:  The only thing I'm concerned about is the fact that we are not going to be on ESPN anymore.  That's the only thing I'm concerned about.  I mean, ESPN is obviously the worldwide leader in sports, and for us not to be part of that anymore is the only thing that I was    I ever questioned about the new deal.

Golf Channel, I think it's going to be great for them.  I think for people that really, truly like golf you're going to see the subscribers go up and watch it because they're not going to want to miss a shot.  It's not like they're going to go off the air at 6:00, they're going to stay on until the tournament is over.  In that instance it's good because you're going to get bonus coverage.
Q.  But you're not going to get the sidewalk guys and it's not going to grow the sport?
CHRIS DiMARCO:  Not necessarily, but I think the fact that more golf on TV is going to be good, people coming home from work at 6:00, 6:30, they can turn on the TV and watch the finishers finish.  Last week they went off the air with the leaders with five or six holes left, and they don't have to worry about that anymore.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT