PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 19, 2006
Chris DiMarco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
A little disappointed after you put up such a great front nine that you weren't able to score more on the back?
CHRIS DiMARCO:  Not really.  This course, to me, the front side is a lot easier than the back side, at least for me at least.  It seems like you can score a little bit better.  Both par 5s are you a little bit easier.  The back side you've got some tough holes with 13 and 17, really holes you're just trying to make pars on.  12 is the same thing, 11 is a really tough hole.  The back nine to me is a lot harder than the front side.
Q.  When you put up a number like that that early, do you think it puts a charge into the rest of the field that they at least know a number like that is out there?
CHRIS DiMARCO:  Yeah, I guess you could tell.  Really we've been very fortunate without much wind this week, and then the rain last night really softened up the greens a lot and they can't get them to the speed they want them.  The greens are relatively slow, not slow overall but slower than you would see on Saturday normally.

You can be aggressive with your putts, and if you keep the ball below the hole and give yourself good chances, you can be aggressive.
Q.  What do you think will win it tomorrow?
CHRIS DiMARCO:  I don't know.  These guys have got nine holes left and they don't look like they're stopping.  You know, it depends.  It looks like right now probably 14 is going to be leading after today.  It could get close to 16 , 18 under par.
Q.  Do you like that at a major?
CHRIS DiMARCO:  I like it better than watching guys make double bogeys.  I can promise you to that much.  PGA of America does a great job setting up the course.  They can't control the weather.  The rain really softened up the course.  The course was just starting to get its teeth into it and then the rain came and really softened it up.  It's not about watching us hit it in the rough and hit it out 50 yards.  You can actually play out of this stuff, and it's good.  You're seeing some scores out of it.  There's not nine holes over 480.

It's a great venue and a great golf course and PGA of America does a great job.
Q.  Did you see your game coming around this week?
CHRIS DiMARCO:  My game has been good since the British Open.  I didn't realize that for some reason my putter had gotten bent, the grip had got bent over, the top half, about 30 degrees, so I was missing everything to the right.  I found it out on Tuesday here, and then once I got my putter fixed, it all clicked back in.  I've been putting great this week and obviously made a lot of good shots.  Made a lot of birdies this week.
Q.  How did you find that out?
CHRIS DiMARCO:  I just was out here trying to figure everything out.  I looked down my putter and saw my grip aimed to the left, and there you go.  We got it fixed, and it was immediate.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
CHRIS DiMARCO:  Well, I can promise you it wasn't like that at the British Open because I putted pretty good there.  I would think it could have been on the plane flight back, could have been somewhere in the middle, but the last two weeks I have not putted    I've been missing a lot of putts to the right, starting right.  I feel like I put good strokes on them and I look up and they're starting right.  I would say it's been at least two weeks.
Q.  How are you mentally?
CHRIS DiMARCO:  Mentally I'm good, I really am.  I've had a lot of rest this year, unfortunately.  So I feel I'm ready for tomorrow.  I love this atmosphere, just the back nine at a major on Sunday is just the greatest thing in the world.  Hopefully we can get a good roll going tomorrow morning early and get ourselves back into the mix.
Q.  Do you feel like you could have gone a little bit lower?
CHRIS DiMARCO:  Yeah, I hit a lot of really good putts.  I think my speed was just a little off.  The greens are just a tad slower than they were the first day because of the extra rain.  I left a couple out there yesterday just because my speed was off a little bit.  I feel like if I could have hit it six inches harder I would have made six or seven more putts in the last two days.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT