THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 23, 2006
Chris DiMarco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BERNIE McGUIRE:  Chris DiMarco, thanks so much for coming in.  Congratulations on a great performance today.  Give us your talks thoughts about the final round.
CHRIS DiMARCO:  He's a hard guy to catch, I tell you that.  Playing with Ernie was great.  Ernie is such a great, great guy, and I've always been very at ease playing with him, and also with Retief the day before.

Tiger is great to play with, too, but what goes on with him is hard.  I was happy to play with the group in front.  I know Sergio had to deal with that today.

The course was harder today, literally, and just in toughness.  A lot more wind and I didn't get off to obviously the greatest start.  But still have parred 2 and 3, which was two hard holes and only being 1 over there, and made the great birdie on 6.  Actually played the last 17 5 under, I played great.
Q.  This is the second time now in the last three majors that    with Tiger that you've really pushed him.  No one else has seemed able to do that over the years.  What do you think that is?
CHRIS DiMARCO:  I don't know.  I don't think it was not because they weren't trying.  I think it just happened to be me.  It was    you know, he's got an uncanny ability to, when somebody gets close to him, to just turn it up another level.  And I made a great putt on 14 for par, which really pumped me up, and he turns around and birdies 14, 15, 16, only one shot lead.  Playing 14, 14 was brutal, I hit a 3 wood.  He made a great birdie.  15, the same thing.

So it's just    it's hard to catch him.  And you've got to give it your all.  Obviously you've got to go out there and do it.  I had a lot on the line today.  I was trying to win, obviously.  I'm trying to get major points for Ryder Cup from way back in September.  I feel like finally I've gotten over my injury and over the hump.
Q.  A very emotional day for both you and for Tiger, with some very touching sentiments out there.  What are your feelings out there?  You've had a few minutes to cool down.
CHRIS DiMARCO:  I know my mom would be very proud of me right now.  One, for playing well; but two, just because that's how she was.  I miss her and I love her and I have great memories of her and that's the hardest part and that I know I'll never see her again.  But I know if I close my eyes I see her.  She is and was a wonderful woman.

I know my dad is going through a hard time right now, too, but there is a lot of family support.  This doesn't change anything, it just makes it a little more therapeutic.  It just helps knowing that she was a big part out there today, and I know I'll have her with me the rest of my life.
Q.  Chris, do you thrive on going up against Tiger?
CHRIS DiMARCO:  No, I don't want to go up against him, I don't want to do that.
Q.  It just seems like it really brings out the best in you.
CHRIS DiMARCO:  If you can't get up playing the best player in the world in a major, I don't know what else there is.  I mean, absolutely.  It pumps me up.  I know Tiger said one of the greatest things ever, I don't know how many years ago he said it, that being in contention in a major or in any tournament is like a drug.  And it is.  It is our drug.  It is so awesome to be playing well and performing well when everything is on the line.  As a player it's the best thing in the world.  He does it the best in the world that's why he's No. 1 in the world.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT