TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 21, 2012
Chris DiMarco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Chris, 3‑under on the day.   This is your 13th start here.   You have made ten consecutive cuts on this course?  
CHRIS DiMARCO:   Gees.   There's a 97 percent free‑throw shooter in the first group.  
   
 Q.   What is it about this course that makes you so consistent here?  
CHRIS DiMARCO:   No.   You know, I was saying last night, I was doing a dinner, and it's courses for courses.   You know, if you look a couple years ago at the playoff, you had Bubba Watson, Scott Verplank and Corey Pavin.   So it just shows you the different varieties of how long you have to be out here, and really length isn't a factor.   So it's just one of those golf courses that suits my eye.   I get up on the tee and it's the same strategy every year.   I know exactly what to do.   So I hit the ball very good today and putted very well.   So that usually helps.  
   
 Q.   It's hot out there this week.   Record‑breaking heat.   It's going to be 100 degrees in round two.   What are you going to do to really stay focused out there with the heat and how does that change the course conditions?  
CHRIS DiMARCO:   I think you just have to drink a lot of fluids, and really when it's that hot, the ball just goes that much further.   So you just have to be careful about your ball taking off on you because with it that hot out, the ball is going to travel a lot further than normal.  
   
 Q.   Good luck.   Best of luck the rest of the week.   Chris, just comment on the round for us.  
CHRIS DiMARCO:   Got off to a great start.   I hit it a little right on No. 1, but had to drop it up on top of the thing and hit an 8‑iron to about a foot.   So it's always nice to get off to a really good start.   
Then got on a really good run in the middle of the round, birdied 9 and then birdied 11, 12 and 13.   So those are the holes downwind that you can really take advantage of, and I was able to do that today.   And 15 I made a really good birdie there.   In other years past I hadn't been making too many birdies on that hole and was able to get one there.   
It's playing tough out there.   There's enough wind out there to make you think.   The rough is about as high as I've seen it ever out here.   It's almost a pitch‑out if you get it in there.   So really, the main thing is hitting fairways and making putts and staying cool and staying refreshed and drink lots of fluids.  
   
 Q.   Is this hot by your standards?  
CHRIS DiMARCO:   No.   
   
 Q.   I was going to say, how does this one rank?  
CHRIS DiMARCO:   This is the morning in Orlando right now, so this is perfect.   This is like 7 a.m.  
It's fine for me.   I've always said I'd much rather play in real hot weather than anything cold or rainy or anything like that.   I'd rather play in hot weather.   You can drink enough.   You can put an umbrella over you or whatever you want to do.   
But when it's cold, you just have to keep putting layers on, and for me I never get loose.   So out here I don't even have to hit about five balls and I'm loose.   So it's nice for the old bones.  
   
 Q.   What keeps you grinding?   What keeps you thinking that you can win out there?  
CHRIS DiMARCO:   Money (laughs).   
   
 Q.   Besides that.   
CHRIS DiMARCO:   You know, I mean I think the desire to compete.   I mean I think that that never goes away.   I think that, you know, is there other things in my life that are more important than golf right now?   Absolutely.   I have three kids that are growing up.   They're doing a lot of things.   But as far as the competitive side of golf at this level I don't think too many people can say that they've competed on this level.   And that's why we do it.   We do it for the competition.   We do it to know and be able to say that we're still one of the best.   And that's what it's about.  
   
 Q.   What makes you believe that you can still win?  
CHRIS DiMARCO:   I just think that once you've done it, you always know it's in there.   So you never give up on that, that's for sure.   You always keep grinding and keep trying and hopefully the putts will go one week.   And I'm starting to do a lot of good things, and I'm excited.  
   
 Q.   When you play for a long time like you have, how do you work on getting better and what are the things you work onto improve on?   Is there anything?  
CHRIS DiMARCO:   I don't think it's really getting better.   I think it's just staying consistent.   I think every one of us would love to have mirrored Bruce Lietzke's type of deal where he'd only played 15, 18 tournaments a year, finish top 40 on the Money List and go take three months off.   I mean I think that's what everybody would love to do.   Unfortunately he was pretty gifted at being able to do that.   Not all of us can do that.   
Certainly playing a lot of tournaments and being away from my family is certainly not what I want to do, but when I'm out here, I'm giving it all I got, and certainly if I'm here I'm going to give it my best effort.  
   
 Q.   Guys coming off the U. S. Open, they're kind of all over the place scoring a lot.   What's kind of the mind burnout?  
CHRIS DiMARCO:   I think it's frustration.   It's patience.   After last week, your focus had to be so strong and you had to be so patient that this week you're thinking this golf course has gotta be so easy compared to last week and if you don't get off to a good start, you kind of press.   Unfortunately it's still golf.   You still gotta get the ball in the hole.   The holes weren't any smaller last week.   It was the same size.   It just was a matter of getting it in there.   You're seeing guys, I know for me at Memphis I was out of it.   Physically I was fine, but mentally it was nine weeks in a row, I was done.   So it was great for me to go home last week and kind of recharge the batteries and want to come back out.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT