TRANSITIONS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 16, 2012
Chris DiMarco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You lit it up today. 
CHRIS DiMARCO:   I played about as solid as I could play out there.   It's a tough golf course.   You just have to hit it in play.   I don't even know if I missed a fairway today. 
You know,   I hit for the most part, hit all my irons where I was aiming and I putted very good today.   It's one of my best putting rounds probably of the year as far as feeling good over it.   So I can take nothing away from it but good things.

Q.   The alignment thing straightened out that you were talking about?
CHRIS DiMARCO:   Other than the last hole, hit it perfect down the middle to take it sideways and hit a really good cut 8‑iron that hits this side of the lip and goes 30 yards back up against the other side of the lip.   And hit a great third shot to get it to within 20 feet and 2‑putted. 
Other than that last hole, finishing like that, it was still good.   I think I missed four cuts in a row, so for me it was a great start to the year, and then I played okay, didn't make cuts‑‑ so you know what, any time you start missing cuts, it gets into your mind.   So it's nice for me to go into the weekend on a good, positive note.   Obviously I'm hitting the ball good and putting good, so I expect good things on the weekend. 
I missed four cuts, Puerto Rico the first round was really the only bad round of golf I played this year.   And you know, other than that, I think the other three cuts I missed by a shot; and Puerto Rico, I missed by a shot. 
I've been putting myself in position but have not been pulling it off, and today was nice to go out and hit a lot of nice quality shots. 

Q.   What did you say was the alignment issue on the putting? 
CHRIS DiMARCO:   I was aiming left and my ball position was way back and had not realized it. 

Q.   How did you figure that out?
CHRIS DiMARCO:   I just did it myself believe it or not‑‑ I chipped in yesterday on 9 to shoot even and went to No. 10 and I just was having trouble getting the putter back. 
And I'm wondering I didn't was having trouble, because my ball position was so far back that I could not take the putter back and really freed me up to hit the putts. 
Back on track and it feels great.   Haven't felt like this, and the thing I like about this is when I've putted my best, I hit the ball in the middle on the upswing and that's what it's doing. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT