ABU DHABI GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 21, 2006
Chris DiMarco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
How about that run of 8 under par through seven holes?

CHRIS DiMARCO:  Yeah, I was telling my wife, I was saying this is where my normal caddie just is normal and quiet and just keeps up and walks and gets out of my way.  That's what Amy does anyway, because she doesn't have too much insight into what I'm doing.  Other than if I make double on the first hole, she says, okay, it's over and let's just go from there.  I was just going out and continue hitting great shots which I was able to do.  I had two good chips on 17 and 18 and didn't really come through on those.  As great as it was    obviously the way I started, I'm very excited with what I shot, but definitely felt like I felt a shot out there coming in the last two holes.
Q.  When you have a run like that, are you laughing inside to an extent?  Stenson started with five straight birdies and he was chuckling because he had not had that start before?

CHRIS DiMARCO:  At some point you've got to go, okay, obviously I'm hitting it good, so you have to just try to continue hit it great.  One thing you see most pros do, you get 7 , 8 under par, but 9 , 10 under par, we don't get there much.  It's out of our comfort zone sometimes, too.  So you just have to tell yourself there's a reason I'm 7  or 8 under par is because I'm playing good golf and just try to stay aggressive and get to 9  or 10 under.
Q.  Having your wife is on the bag, how is that?

CHRIS DiMARCO:  It's great.  This is the first trip we've had together just the two of us with no kids, other family members or friends so it's been absolutely wonderful.  We've had nice dinners and a great time.  Obviously spending a lot of time on the course.  It's been a while, she has not really seen me    inaudible    at the level of play I've had in the last six years on the golf course.  So it's been good for her, for her to be there every shot and see everything and see how my thinking is out there, I think that she understands it a little bit more now.

I hit a perfect drive on 1, pretty much where I thought I needed to hit it.  Just ended up in the bunker, had a bad lie.  Hit it in another bunker, another bad lie, hit it over the green and made double.

2, I actually hit a perfect drive and landed six inches from flying in the bunker, hopped out in the rough, terrible shot.  Got lucky in the first cut and was able to hit a wedge from 126 to about three feet and made birdie there.

On 4, I hit a 5 iron in there eight feet right of the hole and made that.

8, two good shots and a sand wedge that spun off the green and I used a 3 wood from the fringe and chipped that in.

9, I hit a beautiful shot.  Good drive, cut a 4 iron in eight feet behind the hole and made that for birdie.

10, I hit it left in the sand, in the desert, and a 3 wood just on the front and had a long putt up over a ridge and made it, lucky.

Then made a great shot, driver, 8 iron to seven, eight feet right of the hole and made that.

12, I hit 7 iron to a foot.

13, I hit a driver and 9 iron to about 15 feet.  Made a really good putt, downhill left to righter, probably cups of break and made that.

Next hole, I hit a good drive again.  6 iron from 192 to about five feet and made that.  That was where the run ended.  Fortunately I made birdie there. Next hole, hit it 30 feet and almost that.

Then I hit a drive left, actually in the rough, up and over the ridge and made that.

Had two good chances on 17, 18.  Missed about a 10 footer on 17 and 3 putted 18 from 120 feet.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT