HUMANA CHALLENGE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CLINTON FOUNDATION
January 20, 2012
Chris DiMarco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CHRIS DIMARCO:   I hung in there yesterday and then today I ‑‑ the par‑5s are all reachable, I think I birdied all four par‑5s.   That's going to help.   Then I threw a couple extra in there too.   
So you got to have one of these rounds to contend here.   You have to have an 8‑ or 9‑under and you got an 8‑under today to put myself in position at least to see the leaders for the next couple days.   
   
 Q.   You had a pretty good week last week.   
CHRIS DIMARCO:   I did.   This is the first year I've been healthy in a while.   So I've come in pretty excited about my game.   I played quite a bit over the off season getting myself ready and everything seems to be working pretty good.   So now it's just a matter of‑‑ I made a caddie change and we have worked really well the first six rounds together and hopefully we can continue forward and do some good things.   
   
 Q.   Tell me about the injuries a little bit.   
CHRIS DIMARCO:   In 2007 I had shoulder surgery and then in 2008 I had or 2009 I had some wrist issues and basically am just kind of getting back.   
The problem with golf is you have to play through them.   So you tend to work yourself into some bad habits and what you're used to seeing isn't happening as much, so you're confidence goes a little bit.   
So as far as confidence goes, my confidence is really coming back, I'm hitting the ball as good as I've hit it in a long long time.   For me, when the ball, when I'm not seeing anything go left, that's when I'm playing really good and that's what I'm seeing right now.   
So I've got ‑‑ I'm able to be real aggressive and I'm hitting the shot, I'm looking up, and the ball's going where I want it to go and that's always a good thing.  
   
 Q.   And in 2008 through 2010 did you get discouraged?  
CHRIS DIMARCO:   Absolutely.   You always get discouraged.   My whole deal is, I've got three kids at home, and for me being away from them is tough and if you're playing poor golf it's hard to justify being away from them.   So at least if you're playing good golf you can justify why you're out here.   
So for me it's definitely, would I rather be with my kids?   Absolutely.   But as long as I'm playing good golf and I'm still competitive out here, this is where you want to be.   Not a bad gig to be out here.   
So obviously when I'm playing the level I'm used to playing ‑‑ and I'm getting back there, I really am, I'm starting to get the confidence and the feel and feeling like I should be there and I think that's the most important thing.   You lose it for a couple years and you don't know if you're ever going to get it back and I'm starting to feel that again.  
   
 Q.   Is that game, is the game we saw a couple years ago where you almost won the Masters, is there some of that feeling back?  
CHRIS DIMARCO:   Absolutely.   Without a doubt.   I think that's been the hardest thing for me is if you go back you'll those great years I had, my irons were always top‑20 on TOUR and I think that's been what the difference has been the last three, four years is my iron play hasn't been the same.   
And I've really hit my irons great the first part of this year and really at the end of last year.   So I'm excited about this.   You go to places that you know you play well, this is one of them, Sony last week was another one, and you hopefully take advantage of those weeks you can.   
   
 Q.   Nice to have your entire family there with you?  
CHRIS DIMARCO:   Yeah, absolutely.   That's great.   It's always nice to have them all there.  
   
 Q.   What did you do besides play golf?  
CHRIS DIMARCO:   Laid on the beach and watched the kids swim.   That's about it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT