THE PRESIDENTS CUP
September 24, 2005
Chris DiMarco
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PHIL MICKELSON:  Chris really played well and I've enjoyed playing with him.  We've been able to kind of feed off each other and it's really been a good, fun, couple of days.
Q.  Is it nice being on this stage?

CHRIS DiMARCO:  See that sign sitting there?  Oh, my gosh, we both had a ball these last two days.  It was nice looking across the fairway and seeing him there.
Q.  Where did this one rank?

CHRIS DiMARCO:  I told my caddie walking down, I picked a good day to have my game today.  We both had a lot of lucky golf shots today and were able to feed off each other.  Phil made a great birdie and kept us 4 up to be able win.
PHIL MICKELSON:  I would say that there's a pretty good chance that Captain Lehman will put us together.  We really gel well as a team, and it's hard not to gel well as a team when you have somebody here rolling in every single putt and hitting the ball fabulously.

I've learned a lot this week, the last couple of days.  I certainly enjoyed myself, and this is a lot of fun.

We had a good couple of days and I thoroughly enjoyed playing with Chris.  I love the way he played.  I learned a lot from some of the shots he's hit this week and it's been a really fun couple of days.
Q.  Is this a team that we can expect to see at future Presidents Cups together?

CHRIS DiMARCO:  I hope so.  We both fed off each other.  We both play the same time of game.  Obviously he's longer than me, but we both like to get it up on the greens as close as possible and we both get along and that's the key.
Q.  Is this a friendship that started on the 18th green on Augusta National last year when he gave you the line?
PHIL MICKELSON:  We knew each other back in college in '90 when I was at Arizona and he was at Florida State.  It started a long time ago.  I'm just really proud that it's developed into what it has and we've played so well together as a team.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT