BELL CANADIAN OPEN
September 7, 2005
Chris DiMarco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Any opportunities on the par 3s?
CHRIS DiMARCO:  Not really.  I don't know where you see it.  Most of the par 3 greens are pretty undulating.  So, you know, again, if you put it in the right spot out here, you can make birdies.  There's a lot of really tough holes.  I know the front side with 1, 5,9 is a really good hole, and you have 10 and 11 right back to back are great holes.

If you start on the front, if you can get anywhere even par through ten holes and 11 holes, then you can score.
Q.  Inaudible?
CHRIS DiMARCO:  Mr. Palmer, Mr. Player, Mr. Nicklaus, you can go back to obviously Sarazen and Hogan and Byron Nelson and those guys, but as far as bringing it to a new level with TV and marketing and all that part, I think that you have to go to those three guys.  They are certainly the ones that pioneered it to the level that we're at right now, and Tiger came and brought it to a whole new level.
Q.  Did you know big about this course before you came out in May?
CHRIS DiMARCO:  No.  When we played the Canadian Tour, we didn't get too many sites like this.  We played good courses but they weren't like this.
Q.  Did you play Mayfield Lakes?
CHRIS DiMARCO:  Maybe.  15 years ago, I can't remember what happened last night.
Q.  When you see the commercial of Tiger's putt rolling in on 16    inaudible?
CHRIS DiMARCO:  You know, I don't have any cold sweats if that's what you're saying.  Obviously, on TV, they show it every time    what are you going to do?  It's Tiger and he's going to do stuff like that and he did it.
Q.  Did they ask you to do a commercial on the chip that lipped out on 18?
CHRIS DiMARCO:  Wish that would have got in because the commercial would have been the other way for Titleist.
Q.  When guys come in here the priority is to make money and have a god living, but when you have enough, does winning    inaudible?
CHRIS DiMARCO:  I don't think there's ever enough.  I mean, you want to do well.  I have three kids I want to be able to have them live their lives in a good way, too.  It's certainly not the money that motivates me for sure.

But it's wins without a doubt, I only have three wins and I say only because I feel like I should have more won more than that.  A little disappointed I haven't, but if my career ended tomorrow and I couldn't play again, I would say I did okay.  A couple Presidents Cups, a Ryder Cup, three wins and contention at some other tournaments, some majors I was up there, lost in two playoffs in majors.  I've done some things to win.  It just hasn't been my time.
Q.  Being so close so often has it got to the point that it's in your mind?
CHRIS DiMARCO:  No, I don't think so.  I think you still try to play golf.  I played well enough down the stretch at NEC a couple of weeks ago.  Believe it or not I thought I was going to win.  There was one guy tied with me, and 16, 17 and 18, those holes were playing brutally and Tiger made a birdie on 6 from 212 yards with a sand iron to a pin tucked behind the water, so you kind of take your hat off to him.  I'm sitting there, I'm thinking that he's going to make a bogey    if I'm hoping that he makes a bogey to get into a playoff, then I haven't done my job on the course.

You go on and hope that the next week it will happen.  Look what happened to Olin Browne last week and look what happened to Faxon the week before.  It's there.  Hopefully my time is coming.
Q.  Do you take solace in the fact that you played well enough to get yourself in that position fairly often?
CHRIS DiMARCO:  Yeah, it's hard to win out here.  Look at the guys I lost to this year when I had a chance to win:  Tiger Woods twice and David Toms.  All of these guys can play, arguably the best he's ever hit his ball in life.  He was making shots from the fairway.  I think he made two or three shots from the fairway that week.  You just have to take your hat off though those guys.
Q.  Do you marvel at the schedule Vijay keeps, knowing the way he grinds it out week in and week out?
CHRIS DiMARCO:  I think Vijay just loves golf so much that when he goes home, he plays golf anyway.  So his feeling is, I know that I'm going to finish Top 10 every week, so why not go play and make anywhere from 150,000 to $1 million a week instead of sitting home doing nothing.  I think that's the way he looks at it.  I mean, the guy is    is arguably, between him and Tiger, it's a coin flip who is the best in the world right now.  I think both of them, nobody rivals their work ethic.  I think both of those players have the greatest work ethic out here.
Q.  Is there part of your game that you think is sort of key, guys always talk about, putting, but when you look at your game
CHRIS DiMARCO:  If there's anything I could do I would like to get maybe 15 more yards off the tee.  If I could get ten, 15 more yards off the tee, I would be fine.  I think that's the only thing that hurts me sometimes is the fact that I just need to be a little bit longer.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
CHRIS DiMARCO:  Absolutely, they are.  They are.  I don't know what their thoughts are, but all they are doing is making the Tiger Woods' and the Vijay Singhs' and those guys, just making it too much easier for them.  Making it that much longer, these greens are not made to have 3  and 4 irons into them and that's what it's becoming for me


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT