BUICK OPEN
July 30, 2005
Chris DiMarco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Chris, great round today, talk a little about your round.
CHRIS DiMARCO:  I got off to a great start and then I kind of lulled my way around the rest of the nine at 1 over in the last seven to get in at 1 under.  I just told my caddie, I said, "We need to get something going, let's try to get it to 15 under for the tournament," and I was able to do that.

Any time you're    what would I be now, any time you're seven back of Vijay and you've still got four holes left, on this golf course, it's not looking good, put it that way.  He's such a great front runner and on this golf course, it's going to be tough to catch him.

You still go out and compete and do what you can do.  Obviously they are paying second place money as much as third place money, so you have to play as well as you can.  I know there's some Ryder Cup points out there.  So I'm going to go to try to play as good as I can tomorrow and hopefully get another good round tomorrow and hopefully care it over for the next couple of weeks.

This week, I always try to come here.  The course, it's pretty demanding off the tee.  If you want to shoot 5 , 6 , 7 under, you have to hit it in the fairway here.  Obviously it's good shooting 5 , 6 , 7 unders, it carries over for the next couple of weeks.  And next week, same thing.  It's about making birdies.  And the PGA out of all the majors, with Augusta, it's one that you can make birdies at the PGA.  So it's a good little stepping stone.
Q.  How was the crowd?
CHRIS DiMARCO:  It's fun everywhere but 17.  You know, that hole you can make birdie, but like I say every year, there's 5,000 people around that green and 4,996 of them are great and there's four idiots every time.  They go out have a little bit too much to drink, have a little bit too much fun, go crazy and say things and yell and scream, that's fine.  That's what it's all about.

But I do love this place.  I always play well here, I like this course.  You know, it's just a great, great golf course.  I mean, 17 brings back great memories.  I made a hole this one there a couple of years ago and won a car.  It's a good overall golf course.  It's a shame that a few people have to take away from it because the rest of the week is top notch.
Q.  With Vijay playing how he is, the momentum    inaudible?
CHRIS DiMARCO:  Absolutely.  Any time you're 15 under through three rounds is good.  You know, it just so happens you're playing Vijay when he's pretty hot, 22 under, so that's pretty good.  All I can do is go out and play my game tomorrow.  I'm not going to hit driver, 3 iron on the par 5s.  That's not the way I play.  I just have to keep the putter solid, which it's been all week, and hopefully hit a lot of fairways.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT