WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 26, 2005
Chris DiMarco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
Moving on?
CHRIS DiMARCO:  Yeah, I'm hitting the ball down the middle and putting the ball on the green.  I made a very good putt on 15 and a good chip on 14 to keep me up.  And to keep it going on 15, I hit it in the rough and made a great shot to get it out.  It plugged in the front bunker, and I was able to get it out to about 12 feet.  I made a good 12 footer to stay 2 up.

I had a chance to win on 16 but didn't make the putt.  But 2 up and two to go is not a bad thing to be.
Q.  Talk about the chip on 14.
CHRIS DiMARCO:  He hit it right of the green, and I hit it just left of the green and he chipped it.  He had about a 20 footer for par.  I was just trying to get it up there and it went in.  Who knows if he would have made that putt or not.  But it was nice to get 2 up with three to go.
Q.  It's one of those big match play shots?
CHRIS DiMARCO:  It was if he was up to three feet, but like I said, he had a 20 footer.  On these greens 20 feet is like 40 feet everywhere else.  It was a close match.

He made a great birdie on 12, and then I had a good six , seven footer on the next hole I didn't make.  It was nice to make that putt on 15.  And obviously on that last hole I would have liked to have putted a little closer, but we got it in.
Q.  How did you play?
CHRIS DiMARCO:  I'm hitting the ball great.  I'm hitting the ball right down the middle.  I'm hitting my irons where I'm aiming, and that's all you've got to do out here.  If you can get the honors out here and you can put the ball in the fairway, it puts a little bit extra pressure on the guy you're playing.
Q.  Do you have any experience with Retief?
CHRIS DiMARCO:  Presidents Cup I played against him, me and Jerry Kelly played against him and Vijay.  They beat us, but it was a close match.  Retief is one of those guys, he's going to play long.  And obviously he's a pretty darned good player.  I'm going to have to play my best this afternoon.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT