SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 14, 2021
Harry Higgs
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. 65, quite a round.  Get your comments on sort of a roller coaster?
 HARRY HIGGS:   Yeah, I damn near made every putt I looked at.  I turned to my brother on 15, I guess it would be the tee of our sixth hole and I said, "I haven't even made a par yet."  I happened to par that hole, and didn't par anymore until the front nine.
 But the front nine was a little bit calmer.  I think it was just three birdies and no bogeys fortunately.  I don't know that I hit many good shots nor many bad shots, but just had some from the rough kind of go squirrely on me and go different directions opposite what the wind was doing.  So left myself in some spot that weren't lovely but just made bogey and move on.
 Q. Always pleased with a 65 to start, though.
 HARRY HIGGS:   I'm not going to complain.  I would like to kind of get a better understanding, basically more of where my ball is starting.  Made some good swings and then all of a sudden I see the thing starting too far right, starting too far left and then just need to hit a few more fairways.
 I didn't hit a ton of fairways today but I didn't hit it in spots that you didn't have a chance to get it to the green.  That's kind of the thing.  The fairways are narrow but if you keep it one side versus the other, usually give yourself a better chance.  I was able to do that today and made some birdies out of the rough, too.
 Q. How were the conditions and the weather?
 HARRY HIGGS:   It's better on all accounts than last year.  I know that it rained a lot and it was even windier last year, and the golf course was good last year.  But it is phenomenal condition-wise now and it was nice.
 It's tough for me starting first off when the sun is barely getting up; I don't know when to put my sunglasses on.  But it was certainly nice to have a little bit less wind early.  It's a little hard for me to see and it's a little dark for me.  But the wind picked up a little bit.  And I guess we're going to get some different winds for the rest of the week, so that will be kind of cool.  See if I can hit more fairways and keep making every putt I look at.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT