THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 22, 2020
Harry Higgs
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Your first FedExCup Playoffs, you're in the mix on the weekend.  That has to feel pretty good.
 HARRY HIGGS:   Yeah, for how poorly I played the last few weeks, it's nice to make some birdies, make some putts, and I guess maybe remotely have a chance to win.  I might have to shoot one of those 59s tomorrow, but still a lot to play for obviously with it being the Playoffs and the end of the year.
 Q. Right now, you're in the top 40, setting you up for BMW.  Is it one round at a time, a hole at a time?
 HARRY HIGGS:   As cliché as cliché gets:  One shot, one hole, one round.  That's not to say that I haven't being looked at projections or even scoreboards are so high-tech these days.  It will tell you where you're at, where you're projected to be.
 There's still a lot of golf to be played, and with a bit of rain there's going to be a few more birdies again tomorrow.  The goal is to make as many as possible and hopefully adds up to being enough in advancing.  It's kind of survive and advance this time of year for sure.
 Q. You haven't played as well as you wanted to lately; is it different this week?
 HARRY HIGGS:   I got a little better -- putting the ball better, which I haven't done.  Got off to a good start, birdied the first hole on Thursday, good putt on the second, kind of a bad break on the third hole, 12, very hard hole.  Almost laid it up to the front edge of the green.
 And then went through about four different scenarios of how I wanted to hit it in my head and it was like an "A-ha" moment for me, like this cannot happen anymore.  If I want to keep playing how I was playing, which is poorly, I can keep hitting shots with three or four different scenarios.  Be direct, be concise, stick to it and hit it, and if I hit bad shot which we're all going to do, I'm going to do.  I don't know where the 12th hole, my third hole of the day, finally it clicked, because I've been doing it for four weeks in a row now.
 But just that was an "A-ha" moment for me.  I'm done with doing this stuff.  This is not out I play golf.  This is not how anybody plays successful golf.  So it was kind of a kick in the rear and we were off and running after that.
 Q. Sounds like be direct and take your chances the rest of the way?
 HARRY HIGGS:   Absolutely.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT