AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 7, 2020
Harry Higgs
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  After a couple of rounds in the 60s to get things going. You just told me not only your tournament debut, you had never been to Pebble Beach before. What are you first impressions?  
HARRY HIGGS: It's pretty incredible. I mean, it's probably the greatest piece of land that I've ever -- greatest piece of land to have a golf course on that I've ever seen. We had a lot of fun, great group. Obviously, Pebble Beach is incredible. Had some decent play, which is nice as well. Makes things a little better.   
 Q.  How would you describe your rookie season. You had a top-10 finish a few weeks ago at Farmers. Where's the comfort level?  
HARRY HIGGS: For me it was always just a steady progression from the 2018 season PGA TOUR Latin America to then the Korn Ferry TOUR last year to see basically how, the stuff that I do, see if it stacks up, see if it's good enough. Obviously, make improvements here and there. But, yeah, for me to get off to a good start, I had a couple chances to win. I finished second in Bermuda when Brendon Todd just blacked out and beat everybody. Yeah, so now I keep doing what I do and then get better here and there at little things and I definitely feel like my game's plenty good enough to compete and win out here for sure.   
 Q.  You addressed where things stack up. Where do you believe are some of the areas that you do need to fine tune and improve on?  
HARRY HIGGS: Oh, usually my approach play is a lot better than it's been the last couple weeks, so that would be A-1. But I've done a good job. Today was kind of, honestly, kind of garbage. I didn't pay enough attention to where the ball needed to land and how to get balls closer to flags. And I was probably playing too conservative to some and -- I had a nice run on the back nine, which helps out. But today was more kind of strategy and the mental side of it. I, quite honestly, was terrible. So we'll get another run around here Sunday and have a better idea of where to get balls, where to land balls and get them close to the hole instead of these 20-, 25-footers that break like 8 feet and are lightning fast, those are no fun. But that's what I've been having the last couple weeks and fortunately I've holed a few.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT