MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 13, 2018
Celine Herbin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So you had a great round today.  Looks like maybe one of your best rounds of the season.  Tell us how you played out there today.
CELINE HERBIN: Yeah, I had a nice day.  It was very steady.  I missed one drive, one or two drives at the beginning of the round that made me to make a slow start, but then when I got my rhythm running, I was feeling very well and feeling very comfortable.  I took a lot of greens in regulation, so it was nice.  I had a really sweet time.  66 or 67 is pretty good.
Q. Tell us your thoughts on the golf course.  We've been hearing good things about it.
CELINE HERBIN: Yeah, I enjoy it a lot.  It's one of my favorite for sure since the first time that I'm here.  It was my first LPGA tournament four years ago here, so it's a special place for me, and the course conditions are perfect.  The greens are rolling really pure.  I'm all ready to make a nice run.
Q. You said it's one of your favorite courses.  I remember last year or two years ago we were talking to you again after a good round.  What is it that you really like about this place other than it being your favorite?
CELINE HERBIN: I mean, it definitely looks like more European golf courses with those small greens.  I feel very comfortable with small greens.  Definitely the strongest spot of my game is the long game, so being on the green, you have an easier birdie putt let's say.  Yeah, I like some trees.  I feel very comfortable.  Kind of the grass is the same that I usually practice on in Spain, so everything is looking great to my eyes.
Q. You're getting ready for World Cup on Sunday?
CELINE HERBIN: Yes, Sunday at 11:00 a.m., so I'd better play very good tomorrow so I have a later starting time.  I hope to be able to watch it.
Q. A lot of pressure to play well tomorrow just to be able to watch the World Cup on Sunday.  That's a good plan.
CELINE HERBIN: That's a good motivation definitely to try to play good tomorrow so that I can watch it.  I've watched all the games of France so far, so I'm really hoping I can watch it, at least the first half.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT