ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
February 27, 2015
Michael Clarke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Michael, finally you can talk about playing your game rather than that hamstring that we have been talking about for months now.  Excited?MICHAEL CLARKE: Don't look out the window then.  I'm not going to talk about playing right now because I hate to look at these raindrops.  But I think the forecast is pretty good for tomorrow. Yeah, I think everybody is sick of talking and rooting about my injury, my old injury, I should say.  But it feels really good.  I've worked exceptionally hard and yeah, all the boys are really excited about tomorrow's game.  It's obviously a big game, a packed house, New Zealand are always a tough opposition. We had a team meeting yesterday and I spoke to the boys and made it very clear that through my career, I don't remember too many -- or I can't remember an easy game against New Zealand, whether you played them in Australia or play them over here.  They are a really tough opposition.  It's a local derby for Australia, New Zealand, and that rivalry that I know both teams really enjoy this all sports. I think both teams have the utmost respect for each other, as well, and hopefully we can put on a really good, entertaining show tomorrow for the full house that comes out and the people that are watching back in Australia.THE MODERATOR: Naturally, are there a few nerves.MICHAEL CLARKE: I think generally, before any World Cup game, I think teams will certainly have nerves.  I think that's a big part of the tournament. For me personally, it's more about excitement than nerves to be honest.  It's been a lot of work over the last nine and a half weeks come tomorrow, and I'm really excited to get back out on the field and lead Australia again.Q. Do you believe there's a similarity in style with Australia and New Zealand in how they play the one-day game at the moment?MICHAEL CLARKE: I don't think it would be fair for me to judge to be honest.  I haven't watched enough of New Zealand play one-day cricket. I know Brendon pretty well, though, and I think he has certainly that attacking, positive style, as you see in his own performance but I think you see that in his captaincy style as well. Like I say, knowing Brendon, there's a lot of similarities there but I don't think it would be fair for me to judge because I haven't seen enough of -- I've looked at footage of strengths and weaknesses but I haven't actually sat and watched enough of New Zealand play the full 50-overs or a 100-overs with a game of cricket.Q. With the aggressive attacking approach that's taken, there's also an element of risk, is there?MICHAEL CLARKE: Well, I think with the brand that we play there's always risk.  I think every team we walk out on to the field, you risk losing to try and win.  I think that's probably been my style since I've taken over the captaincy. I've made pretty clear that I've never been scared of losing.  The goal is to try and win the game but there's also the respect that unfortunately in the game of cricket, someone is going to win, someone is going to lose.  So you try and win as many games as you possibly can, and you respect how tough the game is and accept the times that you get outplayed and you get beaten. So yeah, look, I think our mantra has been the same my whole career.  That's the way I grew up as a young player, walking into the Australian team, the boys train exceptionally hard and do everything they could in their power to help themselves win or give themselves every chance but what comes of that is the other side.  Sometimes you can lose.Q. How important is this game to get momentum back into the campaign now after two weeks?MICHAEL CLARKE: I don't think -- there's been a bit of talk about the two weeks.  I don't think it's made any difference.  Boys have had a long summer.  We've played a lot of cricket.  Everybody's ready to play.  We were ready to play against Bangladesh; that got washed out.  We are ready to play here.  If this game was to get washed out, we would be ready for the next game in Perth. I think the amount of cricket that Australia has played, testing and ODI cricket, I think everybody is as well prepared as they can be.  The advantage of coming here early was to allow ourselves to get used to the different conditions from preparing for the game at The Gabba on a completely different surface to what we are going to face here tomorrow. We have been lucky enough, rain has not affected any training sessions of yet and we have been able to that in the build up.  Players are ready to play.Q. The extra wait, the deadline was last week but has the extra wait helped you in your body and your fitness in being top shape?MICHAEL CLARKE: I'll never know because I didn't play last week.  I think the decision that was made for me not to play against England allowed me that extra week to prepare and to get myself 100 per cent right against Bangladesh, and like I say, I feel really good. The work I've put in has given me a chance to get back out in the park and be able to play at a 100 per cent run and don't be restricted where I field, bat, ball and that was our goal.  It doesn't guarantee I'm not going to get injured again. I think the confidence I have in my mind and my body at moment has been because of the work I've put in over the last nine weeks, so when I can walk out on to the field tomorrow and go at a hundred miles an hour, and if I get injured, I get injured. I'm like every other player, and I'm back -- I feel like I'm as fit and as healthy as I've been in at least five years.  The strength that I've put into my back and hamstrings I think holds me in good stead for the future moving forward.  So I'm ready to go.Q. And just on Eden Park, as a captain, how challenging is it and how much do you need to talk to particularly the young, quicks like a Josh Hazlewood if he plays, that if you get smacked around, don't get down on yourself?MICHAEL CLARKE: Yeah, it not a big ground.  I think it's really exciting.  I think it's a great opportunity for a lot of players that have not played at Eden Park and even in New Zealand.  This is a fantastic country.  I love coming here and playing cricket.  I've been here many times holidaying, as well.  It's a great part of the world. So I think it's really important that the boys that have not had the experience to spend time in New Zealand over the last week to enjoy that, and I've been lucky enough to plain on the ground yesterday.  It's no different to New Zealand coming to Australia.  Like I say it's that local derby; there's that rivalry where all the New Zealanders want to see great entertaining cricket but they want their team to win.  Australians are the same. When New Zealanders come to Australia we want to see exactly the same.  I'm sure we are going to get heckled from the crowd but I think that's a really good part from playing away from home and experiencing that. I've been fortunate to play for a new years now and experience it all around the world, and I know the guys are excited about a full house tomorrow and experiencing the New Zealand crowds.Q. Trent Boult has not played a one-dayer against you guys, and it's been some time since Tim Southee, but you've played against the -- (indiscernible) -- is there a sense of the unknown?MICHAEL CLARKE: I don't think so.  I think we've looked at a lot of footage and they are bowling really well. As an attack, I think they complement each other really well.  They have a right-armer who can swing it away, a left-hander who can swing it in -- this is to a right-handed batsman.  Their first change is young and aggressive.  He is young and bowls a good pace, and they have a good experience with Dan Vetorri with some medium pacers, all arounders, as well. I think they have got a really strong attack and I think we are going to have to be at our best with the bat.  But we have looked at plenty of footage.  We know our opposition really well.  It's going to be a great challenge, there's no doubt about it.  Like I say, New Zealand are always a tough team to beat.  I'm sure tomorrow is going to be no different.Q. And Steve Waugh suggested early why early that Shane's comments about Darren Lehmann could have unsettling impact on the squad.  Do you have any concern that they would have any impact on the squad?MICHAEL CLARKE: At the moment the team is really focused on tomorrow's game, and we have been all week.  So it's been our preparation.  It's been the most important thing, and like I say, whether we get to train today or not, we are ready to play.Q. Given expectations for both teams heading into this tournament, which team has more to lose tomorrow do you think?MICHAEL CLARKE: Who cares.  Both teams want to win.  It's as simple as that.  I never read into the who is favourites.  New Zealand playing in their own pack yard, Australia are playing in their own backyard for the rest of the competition, it's about having success no matter where you play, no matter who you play against. To win the World Cup, you've got to beat the best oppositions.  This is going to be a great challenge for us tomorrow.  We are excited by that.  Yeah, I don't read too much into the other stuff.Q. What chance do you think we are going to witness a preview of next month's final tomorrow?MICHAEL CLARKE: I have absolutely no idea.  I'll worry about tomorrow first.  I hope I'm worrying about the final in a month's time.Q. Is this a pretty friendly rivalry?  Brendon was in here just before saying how impressed he was with how you carried yourself in the wake of Phil Hughes' tragedy, and I imagine there's the same feeling for the way New Zealand conducted themselves during the test match they were playing at the time.  Seems to be a fair bit of mutual respect, compared to other rivalries, I'm not sure.MICHAEL CLARKE: I think you've just hit it on the head to be honest.  I think it's the respect.  I think both teams will compete hard on the field.  I think we always have against each other but I think there's that mutual respect.  I think we get on really well off the field. Like I say, I've got a great relationship with Brendon and I've obviously played a lot of cricket against him -- over both our careers and I obviously have the utmost respect for the people of New Zealand and the way -- especially Brendon and his team, the way they showed that extra respect to Phillip and Phillip's family when he passed. Yeah, I think the respect's always been there.  I just think probably because of my relationship with Phillip, it's probably, like I say, I have the utmost respect for the whole country and the way they shared the grief that everybody was feeling and that respect to his family.Q. I know you're not a selector but I'm going to push on, anyway.  When they have name the squad --MICHAEL CLARKE: Like that deep voice (laughter).Q. When they named the squad for this tournament, Xavier Doherty was pencilled in for maybe a game here, maybe Sydney.  Was there any thought of playing a spinner on this or does short boundaries rule that out?MICHAEL CLARKE: I don't know the answer to -- if they get, what, 11 they go in to pick?  I think spin will still play a part on this week.  I know the boundaries are small, but that brings in risk, as well, if you're trying to take the spinner to a short boundary.  Sometimes premeditating or looking to do that early in your innings can create, can get you a wicket. I've always been a big fan of spin bowling in any format of the game.  I think it's a big part of any team.  I guess the luxury we have is we have Glenn Maxwell in, Xavier Doherty, as well.  So the selectors obviously think about what they feel is the best 11 and the best attack for the conditions we are going to play on.  I don't think the wicket will spin too much.  But sometimes it's nota spin, as well.  Sometimes it's about pace variation.  You know, just changing the pace of the game and spin does that very well whether the wicket is turning or not.  Doesn't answer your question, does it.Q. Assuming Shane Watson does play, much has been made of his form or lack of it.  Is this crunch time for him?MICHAEL CLARKE: Look, I think he's been a wonderful player for Australia over a long period of time.  I think Watto has certainly acknowledged that he would like to make runs as much as anybody.  I've watched his preparation since coming back in this World Cup campaign and he's training the house down.  He's hitting the ball well.  He seems fit and healthy. So I personally, I don't think he's far away from a big score, and I think in this big game, I wouldn't be surprised if you see him walk out there and make an important hundred for us.  Yeah, there's no doubt, he would like to score some runs, especially batting at three, it's a crucial position in our team, and I'd love to see him walk out there and play the way he plays best.  But just looking at the way he's trained since I've come back into the team, he's not far away, that's for sure.  I'm really confident it's around the corner.Q. You spoke before about the respect you have for New Zealand and its people.  Does that mean we should expect the sledging will be toned down tomorrow?MICHAEL CLARKE: Again, sledging, well, my God, I'm sick of talking about it.  For me personally, it's never impacted my game.  So me saying something to somebody else or somebody saying something to me has never helped me have success or hinder many he have success. So I'm not a big believer in it to be honest.  I think it really comes down to the individual player; if they feel it helps their game, then you know, go for it.  I've played against a lot of teams that have sledged me and I've played in teams that have sledged a lot of players. So I'm not too concerned about the banter.  I think it's always been a part of the game that I've grown up playing.  I think everybody in the team knows there's a limit, there's a line.  And I know that both teams, once they walk out onto that field, it's about having success. It's about doing whatever you can to help your team get over the line and win.  But also respecting that there's, like I say, there's a line that you shouldn't cross.  We talk about it regularly as a team because we understand and respect the fact that we set a standard for the people watching at home, young boys and girls that want to play the great game of cricket.  That example is really important, so everybody is aware of where the line is and not to overstep the mark. But I certainly wouldn't expect Australia and New Zealand to walk out onto that field tomorrow and be best of mates on the park.  I think that respect will always be there but I think we'll certainly play hard, and I'm sure Brendon and the New Zealand team will be exactly the same. And that's why I think players, media, public, are so excited about the challenge that both teams face tomorrow.  You've got two tough teams that have had success of late.  We are going to play a tough brand of cricket but it's going to be entertaining.  So like I say, I hope this rain stays away because I think it's going to be a great game for the people that turn the TV on or come out and watch.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT