ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
March 28, 2015
Michael Clarke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MICHAEL CLARKE: Just so everyone is aware, I just want everyone to know that tomorrow will be my last ODI game for Australia.  I've just spoken to my teammates and spoke to James Sutherland and Rod Marsh and Darren Lehmann and informed them that tomorrow will be my last ODI for Australia. I'm extremely grateful and thankful.  I just found out that tomorrow will be my 245th One Day game for Australia.  It's certainly been an honour and a privilege to represent my country in One Day cricket for that amount of games, and I'm grateful to every single player I've been lucky enough to play with, and this team is certainly no exception to that.  I think it's the right time for me and the Australian cricket team.  Like I say, I was very fortunate four years ago to get the opportunity to captain this One Day team, and I think that was really good preparation for me leading up to this World Cup, and I think the next Australian captain deserves the same opportunity.  I don't think it's realistic that I'll be here, I'll be fit and healthy for the next -- and available to play the next World Cup, so I believe it's the right time. I think I leave the game, the One Day game for the Australian team in a better place than when I took over the captaincy, and I think the last World Cup we were knocked out in the quarterfinal, and this World Cup we've been able to make the final, and hopefully we can go on and have success in that final. So two finals and one quarterfinal for my time in World Cups, and I'm hopeful that it'll prolong my test career, as well, and that's obviously a priority for me, to continue to be successful in the Test format, and I think by walking away from One Day cricket it probably gives me my best opportunity.Q. When was this decision taken and when was this conveyed to the team, and what was their reaction?  You seem quite emotional even now.MICHAEL CLARKE: No, I'm fine, I'm completely fine.  I'm very happy, like I say.  I've said from day one that the game owes me nothing, I owe the game everything, and I've been really fortunate in my life to be where I am today because of the game of cricket, and One Day cricket has been a huge part of that.  No, look, I know I've made the right decision.  I told my teammates 10 minutes ago.  I told the selectors and James Sutherland about an hour ago.  So really the only people I spoke to were my family over the course of the last 24 hours, and obviously like I said, I've thought over the last few weeks about if I was -- if there was a chance I was going to be able to make it to the next World Cup, and as soon as I answered that question in my own head, I think my decision was made.  I think, like I say, it really helped me having that preparation to captain the team, that four years of being able to build my own team and set my own style up as a captain.  I think that's given me my best chance to captain the team in this tournament.  I would like the next captain to have that same opportunity.Q. Given what you just said, tomorrow is the World Cup final.  This sort of decision, I know you will always say it's not about you but it's about Australia, but does this add to the occasion?MICHAEL CLARKE: I don't think so.  It's a special game, no doubt about it, but it needs to be about the team and I want it to be about the team.  I just said it to my teammates then.  And I've been the one to come out and say, it's not emotion, it's skill that helps you win major games and major tournaments, and tomorrow will be no different.  It's a wonderful opportunity for every single player in that change room to walk out onto the MCG in a World Cup final.  It's a very special event.  But yeah, it's no more special because it's my last game.  It's about timing for me, and like I say, I think now is the right time to walk away from the One Day game.Q. Why as a captain you are doing injustice to one of the best batsmen in your team by sending him in at No. 6?MICHAEL CLARKE: Who are we talking about?  Oh, that guy.  Again, I thought it was the best decision for the team.  I think through my career, and I think if it was about me, I think I would have batted at No. 3 a hell of a lot more than I have throughout my career.  But I think Ricky told me at a very young age that he thought I was just suited to the middle order in the One Day game especially, to go and face spin bowling and make sure I bat through those middle overs to help our power game at the end, and I guess I've probably continued on in the same way.  I think the other night and in Perth, I think those two opportunities, being one down in the 30th over, I thought it was the right thing for the team to send some power hitters out in front of me. You know, yeah, it's not about the individual performance or the individual success.  It's about the team winning, and fortunately on both occasions I've made that decision we've gone on to win the game.  Tomorrow will be no different.  If I feel it's best for me to walk out at No. 4, then I walk out at No. 4.  If it's best for me to not bat in the game, then I don't bat in the game.Q. Early in your career you were a part of one of the finest teams that we've ever seen.  Three of you guys were a part of the 2007 World Cup when you won that World Cup, yourself, Shane Watson, Mitchell Johnson, so this team is quite young, and this will be the first final for most of them.  What would be your message to them from your experience, and on handling the pressure and the big stage?MICHAEL CLARKE: I think the team has shown that they can handle pressure.  I think we've had the expectation put on us from the first ball this tournament, being in our home country, as I'm sure New Zealand have, as well.  Look, it'll be about playing with freedom.  I think that's probably the lesson I learned at a very young age that that's why you go to training every day.  That's why you work so hard at your preparation, so when you walk onto that big stage under pressure, you just go out and play with freedom.  I couldn't be happier with the way the guys have prepared throughout this tournament.  The fact that the whole team is here again today at an optional training session shows the dedication, shows where the team is at mentally.  I don't think I have to say too much to be honest.  I think the guys are ready to play.  Like I said after the last game, mentally we are ready for this final.  Physically we've got another day to recover or try and get what you need to be right for tomorrow, but I think the team is ready.Q. It's only a few weeks ago that you actually said you weren't sure if this would be your last World Cup, so when was the moment when the clarity hit you that it would be?MICHAEL CLARKE: About 48 hours ago.  Like I said, through this period, through this World Cup, I think in the back of my mind I've been thinking am I a chance of playing in the next World Cup, and I think about 48 hours ago I made the decision that I don't think I will be, and that answered a lot of questions for me.  Then it was about obviously speaking to my family, yeah, and working out what I think, again, is best for the team.  I think there's no doubt I could keep playing for the next couple of years, but I think the team and the next captain deserves the time that I certainly got as captain in preparation for a major event like the World Cup.Q. Do you remember what you were doing 48 hours ago?MICHAEL CLARKE: When I made the decision?  I think when I left the Sydney Cricket Ground, I think I got back to my house at about 12:30, and I think Kyly was in bed, and I think that's when I spoke to her about it, so it was at that time.Q. You've announced your One Day retirement after the World Cup.  There's a few other blokes on the team who are your age:  Mitch Johnson, Shane Watson.  I know you won't talk for them, but do you feel like it might be a bit of a changing of the guard for the One Day team, and if not tomorrow, then definitely the next year or so?MICHAEL CLARKE: I have no idea how long a lot of the guys are going to continue to play for.  I think that's the greatest thing about this team, being a team sport.  The individual has the opportunity to assess how they feel, how they see things and make that decision.  I think everybody in that room has a lot more cricket left in their body.  That's for sure.  If the desire is still there and they're playing for the right reasons, then I don't see any reason why they would stop.  I haven't spoken to any of them about their individual decisions, how they feel, what they're going to do.  My main focus has been making sure everyone is fit and healthy and feeling good about this tournament. So I don't know where the individual is at to be honest.  But they're all playing so well, so if they want to continue, I think it'll be left up to them.Q. It's been a pretty eventful few months for you, a lot of scrutiny over your fitness and things like that.  Putting all that aside, how special is it going to be to lead those boys out in the final tomorrow one last time in ODIs?MICHAEL CLARKE: As special as it's been my whole captaincy career, to be honest.  I always dreamt of playing cricket for Australia and for New South Wales.  I never dreamt of captaining Australia, and to have this opportunity and privilege has been better than I could have imagined.  And I've been very fortunate.  I've played with some amazing players, some of the all-time greats of the game, and I've learned a lot from those guys, and I hope that I've been able to pass a lot of that on to the younger generation, as well, to a lot of the players that I play with now. You know, tomorrow will be exactly the same as it's been every single time I've walked out onto the field to play cricket for Australia.  Extremely special.Q. Your routine for tomorrow, is it unchanged, and if so, is that stability helpful?MICHAEL CLARKE: I just spoke to Rod briefly on the way out, but I didn't get enough time to confirm what we're doing with the team, so I don't want to speak out of school.  I'll wait and see.  I think Rod is obviously here, and Buf will have another look at the wicket, and then we'll announce at the toss tomorrow.  But again, we've got all 15 players to choose from, which is a great feeling.  I think the pitch looks fantastic.  I just had a look half an hour ago.  It looks wonderful.  The outfield is in amazing condition.  The people at the MCG, I don't know how they continue to do it, to make the ground immaculate.  I think we're in for a great game.  No matter what 11 are selected, the guys are ready to go.  I'll let you know tomorrow.Q. You spoke before the India win on how you and the Australia team have been successful by treating every game like any other, but there's no getting away from the fact -- how do you get away from the fact that this is a once-in-a-lifetime chance for you to captain Australia to World Cup glory on home soil?MICHAEL CLARKE: I don't think it matters -- as I said last game, I don't think it matters what I say.  People are going to write that there is a difference to me just thinking it's another game.  My opinion hasn't changed from the semifinal.  I will train no harder today, I will study New Zealand no harder than I did last time we played them.  I will sleep no worse tonight than I ever do.  I'll be no less nervous before I walk out to bat.  The feeling is exactly the same.  It is special, and I've been fortunate enough to play in two previous World Cups and win one of those.  So I know what the feeling is like.  But again, even when I think back to 2007, there was such a buildup about the World Cup final, but the emotion and the adrenaline and the feeling didn't hit me until after the game when we were celebrating together as a team because you're so focused on making sure you're as well prepared as you can be, making sure you're ready to go out and have the confidence to play with that freedom that I talk about, and for me, today is exactly about that.  I'll go and train and prepare so tomorrow I can walk out and play with that confidence and freedom. Of course it's a special event, and I'm not trying to hide away from that at all, and I don't want the team to hide away.  I think we've got to go the other way.  We spoke about the semifinal against India and even after that game we spoke about getting on a plane and flying to Melbourne.  It's about embracing all the great things that come with making a World Cup final.  No matter what happens tomorrow, this team has achieved a lot under pressure, a lot of expectation.  To be able to make a World Cup final is very special, and if we can win, that would be icing on the cake.  But the way you do that is by making sure you're prepared, you're ready, and skill over emotion.Q. You had a short conversation with Brendon McCullum at the photo op.  Could you share with us --MICHAEL CLARKE: I think I'll keep that between Brendon and I, but the main message from both of us was we wish each other all the best.  I have a great relationship with Brendon.  I'll always be grateful for the way him and his team respected the Hughes tragedy and respected Phillip's family, so that's probably brought us closer together.  But it was more about wishing each other all the best.  Yeah, there wasn't much more to it, to be honest.Q. Given the way that the game is going, you've seen it, I've seen it, did it cross your mind at all to give up Test cricket to prolong your One Day career?MICHAEL CLARKE: Never.  No, I've never hid behind the fact that I find Test cricket to be the pinnacle of our sport.Q. Just in terms of public interest, the perception is that the limited overs game is where the future is.MICHAEL CLARKE: Yeah, again, I've never really probably -- yeah, I've never probably gone down that road anyway in regards to what is the best thing to do for the public interest, as I'm sure you would have seen through my career.  I've copped my fair share of smacks in the mouth.  But I am who I am and it's about being true to myself, and I don't feel bad about saying that I believe Test cricket is the toughest part of our game.  I love that challenge.  I find it extremely difficult every test match I play.  I do see it as the pinnacle.  I love T20 cricket and I love One Day cricket and I will continue to support and watch a lot of that.  But yeah, I still think I've got a lot to offer the team as captain of the Australian Test team, and I want to make sure I continue to have success in that format.Q. And you're optimistic about the future of Test cricket, given the great success of this tournament?MICHAEL CLARKE: I certainly am.  I think if you ask the players, their opinions aren't too different to mine.  A lot of the players I speak to.  And I think they love T20 cricket and One Day cricket, as well.  I think Test cricket is the ultimate for an Australian sportsman.  Long may that continue.  It mightn't be that way, but my hope and goal is that Test cricket continues to grow.  I think we've seen over the past few years some really hard-fought Test cricket, and I think that's brought a lot of people, a lot of new people to our game.  I think there's room for all three formats.  I've always said that.  I'd like to see that continue.Q. You've been installed as favourites for the final tomorrow.  Do you believe you're favourites, and what makes you the favourites do you think?MICHAEL CLARKE: I believe if we play our best, we can beat New Zealand tomorrow.  I don't buy into the favourites or not favourites.  New Zealand have been the form team of the competition.  New Zealand have beaten us once in this tournament.  But I'm confident if we play our best, we can beat them tomorrow.Q. Not quite a fill in the blanks of World Cup winning captains, but looking back, but humility aside, how do you define your legacy as ODI captain of the Australian team, given that you're going off on a last hurrah tomorrow?MICHAEL CLARKE: Oh, look, I think it's hard for me to -- I think your legacy is dictated by what your teammates think of you to be honest.  I think I've shown through my career in any format that I've always put the team first.  I think a lot of my legacy will be based around what happened recently off the field with my little brother.Q. As an extension of that, from a very tragic incident to the career-threatening injuries to where you are leading the team to the final, is it a culmination of all those for you, that you're probably emotionally drained, something had to let go?MICHAEL CLARKE: No, not at all.  I don't think that's the case.  I've just explained the reasons why I think it's the right time for me.  Like I say, a lot of it is about giving the next captain the opportunity and the team the opportunity to prepare, and the selectors, as well, to work out what they feel is their best squad for the next World Cup.  I leave the One Day team in a better place than when I took over the captaincy, and it gives me my best chance of prolonging my test career.  They're the three main reasons of why I've decided to walk away from One Day cricket.Q. You had mentioned earlier about the No. 3 batsman, and your best man now is Steve Smith and he's easily amongst one of the two, three best batsmen in the world right now.  Could you talk about his growth as cricketer, batsman, person, and possibly future leader of Australia in all formats, from the nervous kid in 2010 to what we see is one of the best batsmen in the world?MICHAEL CLARKE: Yeah, look, I think Smitty has certainly matured as a player and as a person, there's no doubt about it.  I think his form is because of his hard work.  I said that the other night in the press conference, and I'm not surprised that he's scoring as many runs as he is because he's training extremely hard.  He's worked hard on his game.  He's learnt a lot about his game.  I don't think it would be fair for me to go into who's going to be the next captain.  That's not my place.  That's up to the selectors.  Obviously Smitty is somebody that will certainly be spoken about, but I don't think it's fair for me to do that. I think there's a reason he bats No. 3 for Australia.  He's earned that right, and he's grabbing that with both hands in the One Day format, and like I said, if he gets an opportunity to bat 3 in Test matches, I'm really confident he'll grab that with both hands, as well.  He's playing a big role in helping us have success.  I'd love to see another hundred from him tomorrow.  That's if Finchy and David Warner decide to give him a bat.  But yeah, look, I'm extremely proud of the whole team.  I think every single one of the 15 players in this squad has played a part, a huge part in us reaching the final.  And every one of them deserves the same amount of credit, even the guys that haven't spent much time on the field.  Without their help, without their support, without them putting the team first, we wouldn't sit where we are today, and it would be extra special for whatever 11 players take the field tomorrow, if we manage to get over the line and beat New Zealand, then it'll be all 15 that win that game, not just the 11.Q. You said that you spoke to the team, your friends, also.  Can you tell us which moment or if something was said that really touched you amongst the teammates, if you would share that with us?MICHAEL CLARKE: I don't really understand.  In regards to me talking to the team?Q. Did they say something to you after you told them?MICHAEL CLARKE: Oh, they come and obviously shook my hand and congratulated me on a wonderful career.  But I only really sort of told them before I walked in here, so I haven't had an opportunity to spend much time with them.  But yeah, obviously I think a few of them were shocked, but they were all obviously very kind in congratulating me.  Yeah.  I couldn't ask for a better team, to be honest.  I've got a wonderful group of talented and gifted players, but more importantly, I've got a team of 15 guys that have an amazing attitude and want to have success.  That's what drives you every day to get out of bed and try and become better.  I hope we can train well today and then go and get that reward we're after tomorrow.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT