ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
March 13, 2015
Michael Clarke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Any changes to the team?MICHAEL CLARKE: There will be one change coming in for Doherty.Q. What was the thinking behind putting him down there?MICHAEL CLARKE: I know the team correct.  I was down about five last week, and we made the change during the game, and sent Maxwell in early.  Obviously Steve's got his opportunity at both ends a couple games ago.  I think the order will be a little different tomorrow because we need guys that hit in preparation for our quarterfinal.Q. I guess, what was the main thing that pushed Pat Cummins ahead of Josh Hazelwood for that last spot?MICHAEL CLARKE: Yeah, I think that's probably a question for the selectors to be honest.  I think they've both performed really well with their opportunities, both bowling as well as I've seen, and both offer the team different strengths.  So that's probably a question for the selectors.Q. Are you fit?MICHAEL CLARKE: I certainly am.  Are you?Q. You were restricted to laps yesterday in warm-ups.  What was the issue?MICHAEL CLARKE: No, just part of my recovery since coming back from my injury.  Just looked at my schedule going forward.  I'm into West Indies to be honest, so a lot of things were put into place to make sure I recover as well as I can, not only for this game but getting ready for the quarterfinal.Q. Would you like to be able to take the same 11 from this game through to the quarterfinal and hopefully just for that stability and continuity going forward?MICHAEL CLARKE: It doesn't bother me.  I've said it before, it's going to take all 15 squad members to win this World Cup.  And I've said before that I like the fact that selectors are picking players for conditions and opposition.  I think we'd be silly to pick your team today for the World Cup quarterfinal without winning games out in Australia.  We don't know what the wicket's going to be like.  We still don't know who we're playing against.  So, yeah, I think we assess that next week.Q. Where will you bat tomorrow?MICHAEL CLARKE: I'm not sure yet.  I'll have to think about it overnight.  Obviously I need another hit.  I think Shane Watson needs another hit, and James Faulkner hasn't had a bat in this tournament.  So there are probably three players that are certainly in need to bat, so I'll assess tonight and make a plan and speak to a few of the guys.  I've spoken to them the last few days about it, and we'll come up with a plan.Q. I know you can get through the rest of the World Cup, but you mentioned before you're playing towards the West Indies.  After the tournament's finished, what happens then in terms of what you'll be looking to do?MICHAEL CLARKE: I hope we're celebrating a World Cup victory, so I'm going to give myself a little bit of time off.  But I'll probably spend a good two to three weeks at the NCC continuing my strength program, working on my cricket in the lead-up to West Indies.Q. Are you confident you can get what you need out of a match against someone like Scotland as the last match going into the quarters?MICHAEL CLARKE: If we win, then we've got everything we need.  I think that's our priority.  (Indiscernible) throughout the other games.  Our goal doesn't change.  We want to win the match.  However we do that, I'll be happy.  So, like I said, it would be great for a few guys to get a hit, but it's about winning first and foremost.  That's our priority.  The forecast is rain tomorrow afternoon, so we'll have to assess that at the start of the game.Q. You said your feet.  Have you been sore over the last few days leading in?MICHAEL CLARKE: I've been a hundred percent fine.Q. You mentioned the possibility of a bit of rain.  Given if it's a washout you'd actually finish third because of the number of wins.  Does that potentially affect whether you'll bat or bowl first and try to get it over with quicker?MICHAEL CLARKE: Well, the key is to win, and whatever we feel the best way is of winning, that will be our goal tomorrow.  We'll assess.  Obviously we have plenty of people that can look at the forecast and speak to the curators.  But whatever we feel is going to give us the best chance of winning, that will be the goal tomorrow.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT