NASCAR MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 17, 2017
Walter Czarnecki
Joe Garone
Joe Gibbs
Tony Stewart
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


  THE MODERATOR: We're talking about the weekend and your teams, specifically how they've prepared to come into the championship. Assuming they're all ready to roll, we expect a great race on Sunday night. Please just let us know how your teams have prepared. 
We'll start with Walt. 
WALT CZARNECKI: I hope that's the same result on Sunday. 
First of all, I want to congratulate Joe, Tony and Joe on a wonderful, great season. It's wonderful to be up here with these three men, the teams they represent. 
In terms of preparation, we're doing everything we can to be able to come somewhat close to these guys on Sunday afternoon. 
Having said that, clearly like these other teams, the focus at Team Penske has been to getting to this point. We've had the season as you all know of some ups and downs, I won't belabor the point. 
But we're here, we're prepared. We think we made some real gains particularly over the last three, four weeks. I think you'll find that the Miller Lite Ford and Brad are going to be competitive on Sunday afternoon. 
THE MODERATOR: Coach, same question. 
JOE GIBBS: First of all, we're really excited I think about the year and the way everything went for us in general with NASCAR. Our TV numbers and stuff look like they're going to be good. I think this is going to be a great race. 
It's a thrill for me and our race team, from J.D., everybody down on the Gibbs side, to get a chance to go every weekend and compete against the kind of teams that we have, the best people in the world racing cars. It's a thrill for us to be here. 
Each and every year it's a tough, tough deal, as everybody here knows. You got those three‑race Playoffs. I think NASCAR and everybody did a great job with the segment racing. I think that really added to our sport. 
Just on a sidenote, if you told me 12 years ago I was going to be sitting up here with Tony Stewart... He kept me in the hauler, NASCAR hauler, every other week for the entire time I was with him. 
TONY STEWART: You're welcome (laughter). 
JOE GIBBS: I guess 33 wins and two championships is worth it. I can be bought (laughter). 
Congratulations to Tony, Joe, Walt, everybody, and their race teams. It's a thrill for us to be a part of this. We're thrilled to be here. 
THE MODERATOR: Joe, the 78 team. 
JOE GARONE: Well, Joe just said it. The series overall with the Playoffs, the format, has been big. I know out in the market we're in, out in Colorado, a lot of the fans we meet, the new people we've seen, we've got a lot of new NASCAR fans in the last few years. We've seen a big swell out there, a build, just because of the excitement that's going on right now. 
To come into the Playoffs right now for us, the guys are just focusing on doing what they've been doing all year. In particular on the mile‑and‑a‑half's it's been pretty good. It's going to be exciting to see what we can pull off, racing against some good competition here, that's for sure. 
THE MODERATOR: And Tony. 
TONY STEWART: We're excited. Obviously it was a big undertaking over the winter to switch to Ford, to start our own chassis department. So to go out the first race of the year and win the Daytona 500 with Kurt and Ford was a great kickoff. Obviously the goal for the year is to get here to Homestead and have a car, if not multiple cars, in the Chase, in the final round here. 
Excited to have Kevin here obviously. Feel like two weeks ago at Texas, that team really set the tone for what's going to happen this weekend I feel like. It's the last mile‑and‑a‑half we run before we come here. Feel like everybody at our shop was excited and encouraged the way those guys ran the last two or three mile‑and‑a‑half's. We've had a lot of speed. 
Feel like there's been a gain at the right time of the year for our team, gained a lot of momentum. The last two weeks in particular, getting this Homestead car ready, I've been excited to hear all the guys at the shop that work on that 4 car, they feel like it's one of the best cars we've had all year if not the best car we've had all year. That's exactly what I want to hear as a car owner coming to Homestead, is we have the best piece, the best bullet in the chamber. 
I feel like probably for all four of us, at least on my side, the heavy lifting is done at this point. It's a matter of going out and executing the plan this weekend, doing what we know we're capable of doing. 
It's a tough season. It's hard for everybody. It's hard for all the car owners no matter whether they made the championship round or not. It's extremely a tough season for everybody involved. To be up here, we're honored to be up here. I know Gene is excited, I'm excited. Greg Zipadelli, our competition director, everybody through our whole system is really excited to be here, especially after all the changes that we went through over the winter. We feel like it's a great validation for why we made the change. 
Excited to try to bring a championship home for Ford this weekend. 
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, gentlemen. 
We'll open it up for questions. 

Q. Joe, how much involvement is Barney having this weekend as far as talking to you? 
JOE GARONE: Well, we'll see. It's pretty early right now. Really, for the last couple weekends, I am linked together with text messages with him. He's certainly paying attention to everything that's going on. 
But, I mean, it's a tough operation. It's going to take a little bit of time for him to get where he can move around, actually get out to the track. 

Q. Joe, can you briefly explain to us late into 2013, you knew you'd be needing a new driver, what went into the process of getting Martin? Walk us through how he was the guy to replace Kurt Busch. 
JOE GARONE: Well, it was somewhat fate, if you go back and look at what took place with our team, then with what he went through. It kind of brought us together, without a whole lot of involvement from either one of us. 
I remember when we first started talking about it, it was evident that we both needed something from each other. The more we spent time together, the more it felt like, Hey, this might should happen anyway. Whether it was meant to be or not, we're obviously grateful we were able to get it put together. 

Q. Joe, will he watch the race this weekend? Where will he be? Is his doctor saying that he doesn't need to put himself under that kind of stress?
JOE GARONE: That's a good question. He'll be at home. I don't think he's left his house yet. I'm sure he'll be in front of his TV. Honestly, I can't tell you what he's going to do. 
I know I am connected to him text messaging the whole race long. I'm giving him what is going on on top of the box that he's not getting on the radio, keeping him engaged. 
I don't know how much stress he'll actually go through, to be honest. He's a pretty calm guy, anybody that knows him. We'll see. It's going to be interesting. 

Q. Tony, for so many years you've not been up here as an owner. What has this year been like for you? Big relief, weight off your shoulders? Have you missed it?
TONY STEWART: No, I haven't missed it. I mean, like I've said all along, I feel like I've been able to have the best of both worlds. I get to go race the dirt cars that I love racing, and still get to be here participating as an owner on the weekends. 
I laughed at what Joe said earlier. It's because of Joe that I even tried to do something like this and be a car owner. I always respected Joe. We've got a great relationship obviously, as you can tell. I remember the day that he was ready to strangle me, the day I walked in and said I was going to be leaving Joe Gibbs Racing. The moment he stopped trying to strangle me is when I said, I have the opportunity to be like you. That's when he let go of my neck. Kind of hard to argue with that when you say you're trying to be like one of your heroes (smiling). 

Q. Have you missed it?
TONY STEWART: I've enjoyed this year. There was one person over the course of the winter that told me this was going to be a lot harder than I thought it would be. I looked at them when they told me last fall, I said, you're crazy, I already feel the weight off my shoulders. 
As the year has gone on, they're right. A lot bigger challenge than what I thought it would be. I've been busier than I've been in the last five years. It's been nice being busy doing stuff I want to do versus things I have to do. A big difference there. 
I love coming to the track. I love seeing all the people. I get to spend time with Joe and these guys walking up and down pit road, in the garage area. That's stuff that during a regular weekend as a driver, you just don't have that luxury without people chasing you around everywhere. 
It's nice to be here. I'm enjoying my role. I enjoy working with our drivers and the crew chiefs and seeing all the crew guys during the weekend, just kind of keeping tabs of what's going on, going from car to car, trying to find a common denominator of things we can work on. 
The longer the years went, the more I find stuff to keep me occupied and busy and more productive. Feel like I'm having a good time doing it. 

Q. For the entire panel, Brian France said last month that NASCAR is working with teams to control some expenses in a way that hasn't been done in motorsports before. My question is, what kind of adjustments can teams make or be put on the table, and with that in mind there's been discussion about the TV money, how teams get 25%, whether that is something that should be adjusted to provide more for you guys. How do you look at that? 
JOE GIBBS: Yeah, I think we have the RTA. It's been a big deal for us. I think we all discuss different things with the sport. I think that's what everybody is interested in. I think just the fact that the changes we made, NASCAR has done an unbelievable job of stepping up, making some big decisions with the Playoffs, the segment racing, all the things they've done. 
I think we're also focused on what's best for the sport going forward. We know it's expensive. Everybody kind of has had open discussions about what is the best thing that we can do to try to reduce the money. You'd like to have other people coming into the sport. 
So I think our groups really, it's been the best where we've actually been together, having discussions, trying to point ourselves forward to what's best for the sport both financially and from a race standpoint. 
So I'm excited about that. I think the other guys can speak, but we're all kind of‑‑ we don't agree always, but I think we are moving forward in a number of areas, and one of them is the financial part of it, what it takes to run these cars. 
WALT CZARNECKI: First of all, the first part of your question, on the revenue side, I think we all agree as business people (indiscernible), and it's called business management style. I think there's been a recognition on the part of NASCAR, I really commend them for working with the owners particularly over these past 24 months, understanding our issues as business people as well as being competitors, being able to make sure that we're good financial stewards of our own companies, while still being able to provide a great competitive product for NASCAR fans. 
I think NASCAR has really done a great job, I feel, in working with us to organize those kinds of things. They recognize, like everyone else, that the cost of doing business goes up. The old maxim in our business that speed costs money and how fast do you want to go. I think that's fine to a certain point. Then we have to be responsible, as I said earlier, responsible stewards towards that end. 

Q. Mr. Stewart, you've been on both ends of this. You've been a driver who has won a championship, and you've been an owner and sat up on that stage. There's a possibility you'll be doing that again Sunday night. What is more satisfying, being the owner champion or the driver champion, or is it just different?
TONY STEWART: It's the same. You're not going to be a driver all your life. When you're not a driver, I mean, people don't know about me, I've won over 20 championships as a car owner, not necessarily just in NASCAR. It's not something we're new to. It's something I take a lot of pride in. 
They're evenly as tough. It's just as tense, probably more tense, when you're not in the car, to be honest, than when you are in the car. When you're in the racecar, you're in control of what's going on. When you're not in the racecar, this will be the first time I haven't been in the racecar when we ran for a championship, so... 
I know the races, it's a little more stressful when you know all the scenarios, you know everything that's going on, versus being in the car and you only know a piece of the information of the big picture. 
It will be probably tougher to watch it on Sunday from a pit box versus being in the car. But at the end of the day, if you're up there hoisting a trophy, no matter whether you're the winning owner or the winning driver, the feeling is the same but for different reasons. 

Q. Walt, Roger told Brad at Texas, Let's just go out and have a good blue‑collar day. He probably had a good blue‑collar day all the way to the Championship 4. He hasn't won races, led laps, that kind of thing. Team Penske isn't used to coming in as the underdog. What do you tell Brad, how do you get that team pumped up going into Sunday?
WALT CZARNECKI: First of all, I don't view our position as underdog. The fact that we are here does not make any of us underdogs. I think the level of the playing field is pretty level. 
I made a comment about how I've seen Brad mature as a driver and as a person, being able to handle the vagaries of this sport, the ups and downs of this sport. He certainly had his share this year with a sense of equanimity. 
He's going to do his job on Sunday. We as a team are obliged to give him a piece to be able to do that job effectively. 
I think we've had a pretty good year. I just wanted to mention a minor point. This is the winningest season in the history of Team Penske. We won 31 races this year, IndyCar championship, runner‑up for an owner championship in the XFINITY Series tomorrow. Clearly we're in the hunt for the Monster Energy Cup. In Australia we've had a great season, won 11 races, we're 20 points out in the championship there with two races to go. 
I think the reason I say that is because it's really developed a sense of confidence and enthusiasm in whether it's happening in Bathurst or Texas or Sonoma. We have all (indiscernible) on that success this year. I think Brad has been part of that. 
I will say this. I have seen him probably more focused in the second half of the season than in the several years he's been with this on this very weekend. 

Q. Joe, can you tell us something about Martin Truex Jr. that we don't know because he's so subdued, keeps to himself a lot? Is there something about him particularly that just resonates with you?
JOE GARONE: Well, because you identified how he is, I feel the same as you. He's difficult. He's very laid back, easygoing. I saw an interview with him the other day about his approach into this weekend. It was really profound how relaxed he was, how he said he feels like he's already a winner. 
He's just really in a good place in his life right now which I think brings a calmness that you'll see out there during the race that we can benefit from. 
I think everybody knows Martin enough, it's hard to bring something new other than that. We may see something new Sunday afternoon. That's what I'm looking for. 

Q. We've seen drivers being pushed out of rides because of costs. How as owners do you see the sport can help push itself to more relevance in the United States as we see useless controversy kind of overtake the racing in the sport? 
JOE GIBBS: Go ahead, have fun (laughter). 
WALT CZARNECKI: When you talk about the sport, are you speaking specifically of the NASCAR sport or motorsports in general? 

Q. (No microphone.)
WALT CZARNECKI: First of all, I think (indiscernible) is cultural in the world of today. Secondly, again, I think working with the teams, personal opinion, I think NASCAR has done a great job again reaching out to those new constituencies that perhaps have not had an interest. 
I don't think there's any question that children today don't have the affinity to cars. I think we have beat that subject to death. I think there's a real push on the part of NASCAR and our teams and sponsors to help build new fans. 
Having said that, I think the Playoffs this year, the stage racing, has really created a level of excitement I haven't seen before. Echo what was said a couple minutes ago. It's been terrific.
JOE GIBBS: I would say, too, just from our sponsorship standpoint, we're so excited about it. I think going forward, we got our best years in front of us. We currently have four big new sponsors. They're coming onboard. We'll announce two more coming up here pretty quick. 
I think in corporate America, Procter & Gamble is good example, that was all millennials. They came down, took a look at it, wanted to do one race at Darlington. They came back, they're doing more. 
I'm excited about our sport and what we can offer to sponsors. If you think about it, what sport has 38 weekends where we can deliver roughly 100,000 average attendance, 4.5 million on TV, social media. What other sport can do that? It's a marketing platform. 
But the other thing you've got is the B to B opportunities are unbelievable in this sport. For all those reasons, I'm just pointing out going forward with our sponsors, for us on this car, Mars, Interstate, NOS and Stanley are all on there, big companies. 
It's exciting for us to have a platform where we get a chance to race in front of hundreds of thousands and millions of people on Sunday. It's a big deal for us. I'm excited about where we're going. 
WALT CZARNECKI: You reminded me, Joe. I think you are aware that we've announced 12 sponsor renewals this year. No one has walked away. They've extended. Not only for Team Penske, but the sport, these big companies are willing to put their resources in place for years to come. 
THE MODERATOR: Gentlemen, we appreciate the time. We wish you the best of luck Sunday evening. We look forward to seeing you as a championship member of your team here on Sunday evening. 
JOE GIBBS: I didn't mention Toyota either as our sponsor. Make sure I get that in there. 
TONY STEWART: You're getting old, it's easy for you to forget things (laughter). 
JOE GIBBS: I knew you would encourage me some, Tony (laughter). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT