DAVIS CUP - NETHERLANDS vs USA
April 6, 1997
Stanley Franker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q  You know, Stanley, yesterday you used the phrase deja vu in predicting what might happen today.  You experienced deja vu; except the wrong one. 
 
CAPTAIN FRANKER:  Well, this was also deja vu because we lost to the United States after being 2-Love down on the first day and also today.  But I have to say, for two sets Jan believed that he could pull a big upset today. 
 

Q  Then what happened?
 
CAPTAIN FRANKER:  Well, that is Andre Agassi.  I mean former No. 1 in the world and tough warrior when he plays for his country.  The guy just pulled himself by his shoe laces and came out smokin. 
 

Q  What was he smoking?
 
CAPTAIN FRANKER:  Came out smoking. 
 

Q  I know, but what was he smoking?
 
CAPTAIN FRANKER:  His forehands and his returns.  That is as far as I know.  I know they had a doping control afterwards and I didn't hear anything, so... 
 

Q  How confident were you when Jan assumed that two sets to none lead?
 
CAPTAIN FRANKER:  I thought definitely that is going to win the match no matter what because Andre didn't play a lot of tennis lately, so I didn't think he was in the physical shape to sustain the level he was playing for five sets.  So, it is amazing that the guy even played better the third, fourth and fifth set.  It was incredible.  He was motivated.  He was loaded.  I mean, he was jogging from one side of the court to his chair to sit down telling himself when he was changing sides, "Break him."  He was really after Jan. 
 

Q  What about when Tony Trabert became the coach, the first thing that Fleming and McEnroe told him was that they didn't want to be coached.  Do you have any problem with that with your guys?   Can you coach?   Do they accept it freely from the bench?
 
CAPTAIN FRANKER:  Yeah.  It is no problem because I think my advantage with these guys is I have known them since they were in the juniors and my first job in Holland was with Jacco and Jan, I took them to the Phillipines to Manila to play a junior tournament, so I have known them for a long time. And, the way I coach, I only say something when I think think it is necessary to say it.  It is not my show.  It is the guy's match.  He has been playing matches all his life without me.  I think I am not diplomatic about it, but I don't say things just to say something - I don't care whether there is a camera on me, I wouldn't say anything. 
 

Q  You have done an incredible job.  We are sorry to see you leave. 
 
CAPTAIN FRANKER:  Well, I am not leaving Holland.  I am leaving the captaincy.  I will miss those guys because they are extremely nice people.  Very nice guys. 
 

Q  Jan said today that the difference in the match was that at the key point Andre was able to lift his game and he could not?
 
CAPTAIN FRANKER:  He could not.  What Andre did also was just as Courier did, he stopped hitting first serves.  He hit a serve 80% speed with a lot of spin deep to the service line, Jan couldn't chip and come in.  The occasions when he had a chance on second serve, he came in, but Andre was teeing off, hitting passing shots crosscourt in the beginning and later in the match, down the line, so he threw Jan off and the topspin lobs that he came up with. 
 

Q  So that element of lifting their game, is that true, of Jim's match the other day too?
 
CAPTAIN FRANKER:  Yes.  But that is -- they are in a different class than Jan.  They have this deja vu.  They have played big matches before.  They can go their next level. 
 

Q  Is that a matter of experience and skill level?
 
CAPTAIN FRANKER:  It is talent.  Talent and, you know, knowing what you can --  I mean, self esteem, these guys, they have been champs.  They have won Grand Slams.  You don't win Grand Slams by being lucky.  You have to do it. 
 

Q  Who do you think will win the Davis Cup?
 
CAPTAIN FRANKER:  It depends on who is going to play. I mean, if United States plays with its best players, they should be able to win it in the coming years; not just next year. 
 

Q  What do you think about Krajicek not playing for his country?
 
CAPTAIN FRANKER:  Well, you know, he had plausible reasons and you shouldn't forget that his Davis Cup record is not that great.  So, actually, you know, he won one big match that is when he beat Sampras, when we lost against the States, he got killed by Courier in straight sets.  So, if he was a Becker who has been helping Germany winning the Cup for years it would have hurt us more, but -- you know -- 
 

Q  So, got to be kind of hard to go back and talk to the Dutch women after losing today.  How are you going to handle that?
 
CAPTAIN FRANKER:  I am going to tell them I made a big mistake not to take them along with me and sit in the box.  I have to be gracious in that.  I mean, the captain of the Fed Cup is going to talk to me.  He is going to ask me how you didn't beat the United States. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT