NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 16, 2012
Cam Simaz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Cam.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the last takedown.   
CAM SIMAZ:   Well, you know, after he got the first takedown so easy, then I kind of got in my head, I didn't keep going.   My whole success, off my style is go, go, go, go, score as many points as I can, and hopefully I have more at the end.   
I don't know.   Semifinals, got a little conservative.   I don't want to wrestle like that in the finals.   
   
 Q.   What do you know about Honeycutt?   
CAM SIMAZ:   That's a match everybody wants to see at 197.   Hopefully it turns out to be exciting.   I said that about the Kilgore match last year and ended up losing.   Hopefully that doesn't happen again.   
But as far as Honeycutt goes, two totally different wrestlers.   He's all jacked up and I'm string bean.   Hopefully the 'String Bean' can pull one out for the little guys.   We'll see what happens tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   I don't know the history of Cornell.   Talk about being a four‑timer for that program.   
CAM SIMAZ:   You see Kyle Dake, he's going to be a four‑time national champ.   It's easy to stay humble when you have Kyle Dake standings next to you.   
I know Dustin Nadi (phonetic), Troy Nickerson, everyone knows who he is, four‑timer.   Just happy to be in their company.   
   
 Q.   Could you talk about the team second going into the semis.   What kind of pride has Cornell taken in the level of excellence it's been able to maintain?  
CAM SIMAZ:   Well, a few years back, we took second the first time.   Everybody was ecstatic.   It's the best we'd ever done in history.   The following year we took second again.   I think that kind of shows where our program has gone and where it continues to go.   
This year, we were supposed to be terrible.   Not terrible, but relatively.   We're top five again.   Rebuilding year, that's good.   People say that we were an overnight sensation a few years back.   But I think we've proved that we have some staying power.   Hopefully we stay with the powerhouses like Iowa, Oklahoma State, Minnesota.   We wrestled with them the last few years.   I don't see any reason why we can't continue.   
THE MODERATOR:   Cam, thanks so much.   
CAM SIMAZ:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT