NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v BLACKHAWKS
May 20, 2014
Andrew Shaw
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Andrew Shaw.   
   
 Q.   To be back out there with your teammates, how do you feel, how much are you ready to get back here?  
ANDREW SHAW:   I feel great.   It's good to be back.   It sucks being away from the guys.   We have such a tight‑knit group.   It's all smiles to be back out there with them.   I feel like it looks good, so I feel pretty good, too.  
   
 Q.   What was it like finally getting out there?   Talk about the injury, how that's progressing.   Will you play tomorrow night?  
ANDREW SHAW:   Yeah, no, I felt great.   Kitch and Jamie have had fun skating the past few days.   It's fun to have the rehab part.   The staff we have here is great.   
I feel like I'm ready to play, but that's not my decision to make.   I'm getting prepared like I'm going to play tomorrow, but like I say, it's not my final decision.  
   
 Q.   When it first happened, everybody thought you might only miss one game.   Was it worse than you thought, and how was it to have to sit out?  
ANDREW SHAW:   Horrible.   You want to be out there helping your team to win.   The guys did well.   We beat out a good Minnesota team.   We came out hard in the first game against the Kings.   
It sucks to sit back and watch.   I'd rather be 100% come back and be there for the long run.   
   
 Q.   Not only do you come back, but your shin pads come back as well.   We joke about that.   Part of your game is to be in front.   
ANDREW SHAW:   I think the shin pads are excited to get back out there, as well (laughter).   
My game, you know, it's the best when I'm around the net.   I like to live there, get a few lucky ones off me, as well.  
   
 Q.   Other players like Brandon Saad ask you for advice?  
ANDREW SHAW:   Saad is a smart kid.   He knows what it takes to score.   He's going to go to those dirty areas.   It was huge for him last game to get that power play goal.   Like he said, it went off his leg, as well.   
He's made fun of me in the past about it, but now he sees take any one you can get.  
   
 Q.   You've had a lot more success against Jonathan Quick than most teams.   Is it the ability to get in front of the net?  
ANDREW SHAW:   I think so.   He's a goalie that likes to stay low, tries to fight the trap, so we just try to get as many people in the net as we can and find those rebounds to put them behind him.   
   
 Q.   Some of your teammates are saying that the dressing room was very quiet while you were out.   
ANDREW SHAW:   I could see that.   
   
 Q.   Who did you take it out on then?  
ANDREW SHAW:   My girlfriend is probably upset.   Past two weeks I probably put her through hell.   
She's excited for me to be out there, as well (laughter).   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT