US OPEN
September 4, 2001
Daja Bedanova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  You played great against Monica.  I was wondering, what happened today?

DAJA BEDANOVA:  Monica was a really good match.  Today Martina played really good, solid tennis.  Wasn't on my best day.  I didn't play as I wish I would.  I wasn't on court with my mind.  I wanted too much from myself, I guess. 

Q.  Were you nervous when you got out there?

DAJA BEDANOVA:  When I first came on court, yeah, a little bit. 

Q.  How well do you think Monica was  -- Martina was playing today?

DAJA BEDANOVA:  I mean, she was playing well.  She played solid tennis, long tennis.  She didn't miss too much.  Well, it helped a little bit maybe.

Q.  You have beaten some of the world's top players in the past.  Was the atmosphere overwhelming for you?

DAJA BEDANOVA:  I mean, yeah, maybe a little.  I mean, I played really great matches in the last week.  I played some good tennis.  As I step on the court today, I didn't feel as well as I did in the past few days.  Let's try the next one again. 

Q.  Could you clarify when you first met Martina, how old you were?  I read stories that perhaps you played at her house, stayed at her house. 

DAJA BEDANOVA:  Yeah, I practiced few times with her at her home in Trubbach.  I was kind of 10 or 11 when I first met her.

Q.  How did that happen?

DAJA BEDANOVA:  My mom and my dad knew her mom.  We were at her house practicing.  We're friends, so it's nice. 

Q.  Did she teach you things when you stayed with her?

DAJA BEDANOVA:  If you practice with such a good player like Martina is and was, then of course you pick up some great things which you can use and learn when you practice at home then.

Q.  Do you feel you were intimidated in some way by Martina's tennis?

DAJA BEDANOVA:  What do you mean? 

Q.  Did you feel intimidated today, nervous because you've known her for so long maybe?

DAJA BEDANOVA:  Well, maybe was Martina.  The whole presence, I didn't feel so comfortable as I did the past few matches.  Nothing to say. 

Q.  As you look back, was it good to be out there with the No.  1 player in the world?

DAJA BEDANOVA:  I mean, yeah, for sure was good experience to play Martina, No.  1 player, in a Grand Slam, in a quarterfinal.  I mean, I for sure learned something for my next matches with her, with the top players in big tournaments.  Yeah, I have to take it like I learn something. 

Q.  The crowd whistled a few times at calls.  Did you think they were wrong calls?

DAJA BEDANOVA:  Well, the line judges decide that, the way they saw the ball.  I didn't think they did it on purpose.  Maybe I saw a few times different way than like they decided it.  Well, that's the game. 

Q.  Considering the goals you had coming into the tournament, do you come away feeling good looking back?

DAJA BEDANOVA:  I mean, yeah, I had a great tournament.  I played pretty good four matches.  Against Monica, I played really good tennis.  I served really well.  I mean, coming to this match, I just lost (two/too?) my serve.  I served pretty well.  I mean, was a great experience.  I take it as a good tournament although. 

Q.  And you made a little money. 

DAJA BEDANOVA:  Yeah, that too (smiling).

Q.  Did your serve let you down today?  What happened you had so much problems?

DAJA BEDANOVA:  I guess my whole game let a little bit down today.  I wasn't serving that well.  My arm was a little bit slow.  Well, I had not a good day.  But Martina played well.  She didn't give me anything, so...

Q.  What next?

DAJA BEDANOVA:  A little bit rest maybe.  Going home.  Then the whole tournaments indoor, European tournaments, starting with Leipzig. 

Q.  Any particular reason why you live in Germany?

DAJA BEDANOVA:  My dad was training there, so we moved because of his job to Germany.

Q.  What profession?

DAJA BEDANOVA:  Tennis trainer.

Q.  Tennis trainer?

DAJA BEDANOVA:  Yeah. 

Q.  How do you compare your performances on clay and hard? 

DAJA BEDANOVA:  What I prefer, hard or clay? 

Q.  Yes. 

DAJA BEDANOVA:  Yeah, it's I think hard.  I like to play on hard courts.  It's faster.  Can play better tennis, I think.  It's better for me.  I like it more. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT