US OPEN
September 2, 2001
Daja Bedanova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  How does it feel in a match of this magnitude to play so well, to be in the quarterfinals?
 
DAJA BEDANOVA:  I mean, it feels great.  Especially if I play a good tennis, I serve real well, to beat Monica, she's a great player.  I mean, it feels great.  I played such a good tennis.  Monica is a great player.  She won it twice here, she played so well in California.  Maybe wasn't her best day, but I played so well.  I served well, so I'm really proud. 
 
Q.  Can you talk about your serve.  What did you do on the breakpoints?
 
DAJA BEDANOVA: I placed it well.  I mean, she didn't get to the ball as well as she would like.  I mean, I lost one serve to her and I lost one serve to Meghann.  That's it for the tournament.  My serve has really helped me out here. 
 
Q.  The third set I thought you were patient in the rallies.  What was going through your mind? 
 
DAJA BEDANOVA:  I mean, I figured out that if I keep the ball in as long as I can, I have a big chance to win the point because I'm not as strong as Monica.  It would be hard for me to overpower her.  But I think I did a good job in what I did.  
 
Q.  Were there periods during the match that you were very nervous?
 
DAJA BEDANOVA:  When I first stepped on the court, I wasn't feeling that well (smiling).  I tried to stay calm.  Yeah, it went well. 
 
Q.  Monica said you practiced with her in Florida.  How often?  What did that do for you, if anything, for this match? 
 
DAJA BEDANOVA:  I hit with her before I even played my first tournament in Philadelphia.  It was a really great experience.  Monica is a great person.  I mean, really, she's really nice.  Then we practiced a couple more times with her.  Once with her home.  Yeah, it was really nice to practice with her.  It was a really good experience which, of course, helped me a little bit today. 
 
Q.  Tell us a little bit about that first practice.  Whose idea was it?  Were you nervous meeting her for the first time?
 
DAJA BEDANOVA:  It was, I think, Nick's idea.  I was heading to my first big tournament.  There was Supreme Court on which she had practice.  I was kind of hoping to practice there, too.  Monica had to practice there.  They asked me if I wanted to practice with her.  So I was like a little bit nervous, but I liked it.  She's really nice, so... 
 
Q.  What did she say to you?
 
DAJA BEDANOVA:  We were just talking.  "Hi" first.  It was really nice. 
 
Q.  Do you think that helped you, instead of walking out there, in a big match, that you knew something about her, you were more at ease today?
 
DAJA BEDANOVA:  In the practice?  
 
Q.  The fact that you had practiced with her, do you think that helped you today, not being in awe of her?
 
DAJA BEDANOVA:  I mean, if you stand with her on the other side of the court, to know how fast it is before you actually play her in the match.  So maybe, yeah. 
 
Q.  Do you train in Florida?
 
DAJA BEDANOVA:  I was there twice, Bollettieri's, and over the winter.  It was last year and the year before. 
 
Q.  Did you have any expectations prior to this tournament?  Did you set any goals coming in?
 
DAJA BEDANOVA:  Well, last year I qualified here.  I lost in the first round.  Just came here, nothing to lose, had not too much to defend.  For sure, when I came here, I wanted to win the first round.  Then I want maybe the second.  Then I thought, "Being in the third round would be great."  Now here I am in the quarterfinals. 
 
Q.  Are you surprised at all at what you've done?
 
DAJA BEDANOVA:  I mean, for sure, a little bit.  Obviously, Monica is a great player.  To beat her is not easy.  I played so well, so yeah. 
 
Q.  Looking ahead to the next match, there would be two very different opponents.  How would you assess either one of those matches?
 
DAJA BEDANOVA:  I never played Martina before.  I used to watch her on TV when I was smaller and cheer for her.  I played Jelena a few times in Juniors, so I know her a little bit more, a little bit better.  But I never won against her, too.  I'm going to watch that match today evening.  I'll see how it goes on Tuesday.  
 
Q.  You broke her serve to begin the third.  How much of a momentum was that for you?
 
DAJA BEDANOVA:  It was really good to break her in the beginning so I could just  -- I was kind of trusting my serve so much.  It was nice for me to break in the beginning.  It was easier to hold my serve.  It was really great, this moment.  Surprised a little bit but, yeah, good. 
 
Q.  You seem like you cover the court very well, served well, your strokes are sound.  What do you think your strength is as a player?  Is developing an all-court game something you aspire to?
 
DAJA BEDANOVA:  In the past two games, it was for sure my serve.  My serve hold me of over the water in the first rounds, it helped with serve and forehand, which went pretty well.  I missed some of those in the last two rounds.  I hope I can better  -- play better in the next round again.  
 
Q.  What is your image of Monica?  You said you thought she was nice.  What goes into playing someone like her and beating her?
 
DAJA BEDANOVA:  After the match?  
 
Q.  Just maybe talk about your impressions of her. 
 
MODERATOR:  In general or during the match specifically?  
 
Q.  In general, before you played the match.  Seems like she's been a friend to you or mentor to you. 
 
DAJA BEDANOVA:  Yeah, actually I wanted to have her as a mentor when the WTA first told me I have one.  Unfortunately, for me she was still playing, so I get another one.  She's really nice.  She's greeting me.  It's really nice to have her around.  She's a great person.  
 
Q.  In a way, do you feel badly for having beaten her?
 
DAJA BEDANOVA:  Well, maybe for her, but I feel really well now (laughter).  I mean, it's bad luck for her.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about where your confidence level is now having beaten Meghann and Monica?
 
DAJA BEDANOVA:  For sure it's higher than it was four days ago.  When I came first to this tournament, I mean, I played really well in the Californian tournaments in the past two weeks, I beat some good players over there.  Actually, it was pretty well when I came here, but of course it raised after those wins. 
 
Q.  Does this win sort of make you believe more and more that you belong, you can play with all these girls?
 
DAJA BEDANOVA:  I mean, sure.  If you beat some good players, you believe more in yourself that you can beat them again and again.  I mean, if you don't beat them, it's kind of hard to believe in yourself.  If you just once do it, played really well, then all the time you step on the court you think that you have a chance against them.  
 
Q.  How did you start off?  Did your father start you?
 
DAJA BEDANOVA:  Yeah, pretty much my dad and my mom.  When I was small, I mean, they both played tennis, so I was hanging around the tennis courts.  Then later, first with my mom I started, then my dad took me later.  So I'm still in the family is everything. 
 
Q.  What was the immediate emotion when you won that last match point? 
 
DAJA BEDANOVA:  It felt great.  I mean, you can't really describe it, if you win such a big match in such a big tournament.  It feels really, really well.  I mean, it's so great to step  -- I mean, to go off the court with a win, it feels just amazing.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT