AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2001
Daja Bedanova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Your father said last week and during this week that your game was not at its best since a few days.  Was it tonight at your best?
 
DAJA BEDANOVA: Well, the first matches wasn't like I wanted them to be.  But I continued to be better match for match.  Second match was better than the first, today was much better like the second.  I still have to work on a lot of things which I didn't do so well, but it's getting better and better so hopefully next match is still better.  
 
Q.  How does it feel to beat Elena Dementieva in a Grand Slam?
 
DAJA BEDANOVA: I mean it's very nice.  I played really good match, with mistakes which I made.  But it's a great feeling.  
 
Q.  How were you feeling when you were 4-2 down in the tiebreak in the second set, almost going out?
 
DAJA BEDANOVA: I wasn't feeling well.  I wasn't feeling well.  I had a few set points which I didn't take in 6-5, and when you got a tiebreak after you have set points, it's not really good, very good feeling.  I was 2-4 down, I could turn it.  I'm happier. 
 
Q.  I'm wondering if you wear contact lenses? You always seem to be rubbing your eyes through your matches?
 
DAJA BEDANOVA: No, I don't wear contact lenses.  It's just the sweat is always coming through my eyes, I just try to put it out.  
 
Q.  Can you tell us a little bit about your story, which is a little bit special.  I think you live in Germany?
 
DAJA BEDANOVA: Yeah.  I'm Czech, I live since seven years in Germany, near Stuttgart and Leonberg.  Now over the winter, the second year, I'm staying at Bollettieri in Florida, in Bradenton, just six months, my second term, so I'm like all over. 
 
Q.  How do you see now your chances against Serena?
 
DAJA BEDANOVA: Well, I've played her once before in Tokyo.  I lost but I think I played a good match.  So I'll just be excited and do my best and then we'll see.  
 
Q.  Do you have, I guess you have a limited number of tournaments until you are 18?
 
DAJA BEDANOVA: Right.  Until Indian Wells where my birthday, I can just play 13 plus four Grand Slams so it's 17 tournaments.  So it's still not much but it's okay. 
 
Q.  So when you don't play in a tournament you practice a lot with your father only or you have some  --?
 
DAJA BEDANOVA: Yeah, my dad is my coach.  I practice just with him.  
 
Q.  You've been playing a lot of pro tournaments now.  How do you feel travelling around?
 
DAJA BEDANOVA: I like it.  I mean, it's every week almost different place, and I'm just since one year on the Tour.  I enjoy it, you know.  
 
Q.  Anything you don't like about it?
 
DAJA BEDANOVA: Not that I know. 
 
Q.  Just the luggage?
 
DAJA BEDANOVA: Yeah, maybe.  
 
Q.  You weren't intimidated at all at night on a grand stadium in a Grand Slam?
 
DAJA BEDANOVA: If I was what, sorry? 
 
Q.  Intimidated at all during this match, you played at night on a big stadium against the No. 9 seed. 
 
DAJA BEDANOVA: That was my first centre court in a Grand Slam, first night session.  I mean, I wasn't actually that nervous in the beginning of the game, set points in the second set and beginning of the third, but then it was pretty good and I felt really good out there.  So... 
 
Q.  Did your dad move to Bollettieris with you, or did he move to Florida with you?
 
DAJA BEDANOVA: Yeah, he's in Florida with me, practicing there. 
 
Q.  Why did you decide to go there and how much has it helped you being there?
 
DAJA BEDANOVA: I mean, I decide to go there because all the tournaments in the winter are mostly USA so you don't have to travel all the way back to Europe if you're there.  And, well, it's warmer.  You can do fitness better and everything is easier.  But it just help me.  I think I started the year when I came there, I was 600 or something.  After half a year of work there I jumped 200.  How much was it, 30 or something? And this year still, it's getting better.  So...It's helping I guess.  
 
Q.  Did you set any goals for yourself?
 
DAJA BEDANOVA: Yeah, just win some matches, do well in tournaments, Grand Slams, and move some spots. 
 
Q.  Move some spots, no definite like you want to get into a certain ranking?
 
DAJA BEDANOVA: Yes, but it's in me.  I won't tell.  
 
Q.  If you live in Germany but you're from the Czech Republic, the heroes you had, the players you admire, are they German, are they Czech, are they others?
 
DAJA BEDANOVA: Well, good players, players which I admire all over the world.  It doesn't depend which nationality they have, so it's nothing special. 
 
Q.  Is it true that your family or your father or you had some contact with Ivan Lendl, something like that?
 
DAJA BEDANOVA: I was born in Ostrava, he's from Ostrava, too.  So I think my dad knew him pretty good, too. 
 
Q.  You think; you're not sure?
 
DAJA BEDANOVA: I think.  I'm pretty sure. 
 
Q.  You have never met him?
 
DAJA BEDANOVA: Yeah, I saw him.  But it's longer time ago.  
 
Q.  Does your father play tennis against Ivan?
 
DAJA BEDANOVA: I don't know.  I don't know.  
 
Q.  What was going through your mind as you stepped up to serve on matchpoint?
 
DAJA BEDANOVA: I still one point to win, which is really difficult.  It's Elena.  But I won it, I was really relieved and I felt really good afterwards. 
 
Q.  Serving an ace on a matchpoint, it's rare. 
 
DAJA BEDANOVA: It's easier to finish the point like this.  (Laughter.) 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT