MLB WINTER MEETINGS
December 7, 2005
Jerry Narron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Who is your opening day first baseman?   
 JERRY NARRON:  I don't know.  Depends how the physicals go.  How about that?   
   Q.  Are you confident Dunn can do it?  
 JERRY NARRON:  There's no doubt in my mind that he can do the job, if that's what he really wants to do and he really works at it, no question.  I have not talked with -- I called him and I think he was working out.  He was on the elliptical or something or jogging.  I don't know which. 
 I haven't talked to him but I know last year at the end of the season, he did a decent job over there and he had no problem with moving over to first base even if it was once a month last year.  So there's no question he can do it. 
 Q.  What do you like about William? 
 JERRY NARRON:  Very solid left-handed Major League pitcher.  They won 67, 68 games.  He won ten of them.  He's a solid, solid, Big League pitcher. 
 Q.  Just from obviously you guys made the trade but history of arm problems and stuff like that.  How much of that concerns you going in?  What calmed your fears about that? 
 JERRY NARRON:  We'll see what happens from there and Dr. Kremchek seen him some time soon.  Probably shouldn't be talking about it until he passes the physicals. 
 Q.  Hypothetically if Sean Casey were to leave the Reds for Pittsburgh, what does that do to the clubhouse and just the atmosphere around the team? 
 JERRY NARRON:  Everybody is going to miss him.  I'm going to miss him.  He's a manager's dream.  I mean his quality as a person and outstanding character.  You guys know him.  It's off the charts.  That part is going to definitely be missed. 
 As for the leadership part of it, last year, I'll tell you this:  I talked with Lopez, Dunn, Kearns, Wily Mo and Encarnacion, five young guys, all under 26 this year. 
 We talked about not if but when we win all of them are a part of it and going to be a big part of it and on their part of being leaders, you come into the clubhouse, you've got Sean Casey.  It's tough to be assertive with those type of guys and this is going to give all five of these guys plus the other guys there a chance to really step up and be assertive in a very positive way. 
 There's no question these guys can all be leaders.  That part of it -- as much as I like Casey, as great as a leader in the clubhouse I'm really not worried about it because I really believe in those other guys and I believe they'll step up and be positive influences. 
 That doesn't go just for those five guys.  We've got Paul Goza.  I mean it gives these guys a chance to grow up. 
 Q.  What would you like to accomplish before Spring Training?  What spots do you want to fill? 
 JERRY NARRON:  Oh, shoot.  I'd like to fill in -- either fill in or make sure the pitching spots we have now will get better.  I don't think there's any secret we need our pitching to improve. 
 On the field we've got to make sure about second base.  That might be a tough spot.  Just basically on the bench, our position players are pretty much set. 
 I know with Freel, we all know that he's a great utility guy.  He can go all over the field and give you energy all over the field.  He did a pretty good job for us.  One thing that we'll see if he's going to come to second base and play.  But probably just utility guy, make sure we got a guy that can play shortstop and a little infield, proven pitching.  Just the overall bench. 
 Q.  The team stays the same, Casey gone and Dunn at first base, is Pena left fielder? 
 JERRY NARRON:  Unless something changes, Hal, it gives Wily Mow a chance to play.  Gives Ryan Freel a chance to play.  They're not looking over their shoulder and worrying about who is going to be in the lineup.  It's a great opportunity for both of them.  I'm saying that as if that's -- Sean Casey was not there. 
 Q.  When you have such a young group, can there be an advantage -- first of all, you're playing the last two National League Champions almost a quarter of your schedule. 
But they also know the young players what the bar is in the National League.  Is there an advantage to having those two teams in your advantage? 
 JERRY NARRON:  Not only those two clubs but our entire division.  Talk about the Cubs and the Brewers have improved and the Pirates have improved. 
 I think it's the most competitive division in baseball right now from top to bottom.  There's not an easy night in your own division. 
 You're going to see a good pitcher almost every night.  It's a very, very difficult and very challenging division to play in. 
 Q.  You think just give him rest down the line maybe putting Griffey at first occasionally? 
 JERRY NARRON:  I haven't talked with him at all about it.  Until I talk with him, I don't know, John.  If he comes in or he wants to play first base, he's really got a fashion for it, we're going to take a look at it.  To make that change, right now, I'm pretty happy with the way he played center field. 
 If Griff moved it would be just to make sure the physical part of the game might be easier but I'm not sure it would be. 
 Q.  You've talked at length about defense and wanting to improve that aspect.  You're losing a first baseman who knows what he's doing over there. If he's not a Gold Glover, moving a guy that who hasn't played there, moving a guy who needs a lot of improvement in the outfield everyday. 
 Are there a lot of other ways to improve this?  How does this affect your defensive game? 
 JERRY NARRON:  I think one thing that hurt Wily Mo last year is Wily Mo wanted to play center field.  He's played more center and right. 
 He's not played a lot of left field and we put him out there but Wily Mo is just getting the time in everyday play out there.  I think Wily Mo can definitely improve.  I've seen Wily Mo make some great plays.  We've seen him miss some easy plays, too.  You have to be consistent.  
 At first base, Dunn's range will be fine.  Adam's a very good outfield.  This guy is solid.  If that's what we do, it will just be a matter of how much time and effort and work you want to put into it.  It's how good he can be. 
 Q.  Do you think he's a good enough athlete, would actually practicing there full-time he would take off pretty fast? 
 JERRY NARRON:  I think he would.  I think that's where he played a great deal in high school.  I might be wrong about that but he probably played more at first than he did in the outfield. 
 Q.  Would you prefer to have Freel at second base or would you like to move Freel around? 
 JERRY NARRON:  It depends on who that would be, Hal.  Freel has a lot of value all through baseball, because everybody knows he can go all over the field and play:  That really helps us. 
 Q.  Thank you. 
 JERRY NARRON:  Thank you. 
 Q.  Are you hoping to have a second baseman, Rich Aurilia? 
 JERRY NARRON:  I like Rich Aurilia.  One thing about Richie, really respect the way Richie plays the game.  I respect his knowledge and the instincts he brings to a club.  I like baseball players and Richie Aurilia as a baseball player. 
 I'm just not sure with Richie contract-wise, today is a big day or something.  I don't know exactly how it all is going to work. 
 Q.  You guys have signed up a few non-roster guys so far.  You always saw some younger guys when you went to the organizational meetings.  Any younger guys sort of off the radar people that you've heard good things about you think might be able to come in and contribute? 
 JERRY NARRON:  Probably the first guy would be Chris Denorfia you saw at the end of the year last year.  Being out in Arizona, everybody I talk with out there, scouts and people from other organizations were very impressed with him. 
 I think one of the biggest reasons is he just plays the game all out and plays it the right way.  I don't know what that says about the state of our game right now when a guy stands out by doing what you're supposed to do but he does.  He does fundamentally pretty solid and plays it. 
 There's some younger guys I saw in the Instructional League.  I was really impressed with the guys in the Instructional League the way they went about their business on the field, how hard those guys were working. 
 I kind of wanted to sneak in one day when nobody would know I was there and see if they did the same thing when nobody was work.  They were pretty impressive. 
 I know all guys that were instructors down there, Bobby Missick had a lot to do with the way the Instructional League was run but I was very impressed with everything that went on down there.  Bobby "Missick" especially did it good. 
 Got so see Jay Bruce really for the first time.  He's a guy that's going to be a player.  That's the first time I really seen Homer Bailey.  He was pretty impressive. 
 But we've got some good young players.  It's just going to be a matter of a couple years.  But our last two number one picks are were pretty solid picks. 
 Q.  Coming off the year he had last year, what are your expectations for Milton? 
 JERRY NARRON:  I just knowing Eric, I know he's going to be prepared.  I know he's going to work extremely hard this winter and he has shown that he can be one of the better major League pitchers.  I'm looking for him to do that. 
 Q.  Talk at all maybe adding a pitcher, anything changing any of his mechanics in order to better suit him for that ballpark since it's a fly ball? 
 JERRY NARRON:  That, I don't know.  You better talk to Vern there about the -- but -- he has a history of giving up home runs.  I don't think that's really going to change.  I'm sure he'll bring that total down. 
 By how much, I don't know but he gave us some very good games last year.  The main thing is be consistent.  But you know he wants to do well.  I know that.  He competes. 
 Q.  Adding the guy, do you see Hudson, Hancock maybe being more bullpen roles? 
 JERRY NARRON:  I don't know, John.  We'll really wait in the spring and see.  I know that there's going to be a lot of competition for a couple spots in that bullpen if we don't add anybody else. 
 We've got a few guys that are out of options for one thing.  We'll have to make decisions on them.  Big things for those guys to come in ready and really pitch well from the very first day.  
 Q.  Jerry, I was curious, your thoughts on what Michael Young at this year, if could have ever envisioned that when you were in Texas? 
 JERRY NARRON:  I'm as happy for Mike Young as if my own son would have got it.  Seeing a young guy come to the major league really for the first time with the Rangers and just having a pretty good idea that he was going to be an outstanding player and seeing him really doing, seeing him accomplish it. 
 I had no idea he would ever win a batting title.  I knew he was going to be a pretty good hitter.  I know he was going to be an outstanding defensive player, I knew he was going to be a player you could win with but for me, a young guy like that and having a little bit to do with giving him a chance to play, it's special for me. 
 Q.  What has helped him to go from where he was when he came up, first reached the major league to winning a batting title in just a few years? 
 JERRY NARRON:  He's got a lot of ability for one thing.  He's very talented but he's got a lot of intangible.  Lot of heart, lot of character.  Not afraid of hard work.  He was always wanting to learn.  I love it because there were a lot of doubters and he showed them he could do it, huh, Jeff? 
 Q.  Yeah, he did, big time.  Big question. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT