THE SOLHEIM CUP
September 16, 2007
Linda Wessberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Hi Linda.  Your Solheim point.   
 LINDA WESSBERG:  Well, you know, I tried to do what I could do for the team, and, you know, it's tough, though.  The U.S. has a great team, you know, and I'm sure the girls did everything they could today and this afternoon.  So it's really tough.   
  
  Q.  Slightly disappointed, obviously.   
 LINDA WESSBERG:  Well, you know, it's on home soil, and, of course, everyone wants to win this one but --   
  
  Q.  Especially Sweden.   
 LINDA WESSBERG:  Of course.  I've had a great week, and it's great experience for me.  I probably, you know, going to come out a better player out of this week than I was before I came here.  So, you know, it's tough.  It's a team effort, but, you know, I'm pretty happy with what I did.   
  
  Q.  Do you feel like you could have done more for the team if you had been given more of a chance playing?   
 LINDA WESSBERG:  It's really easy to say afterwards.  I'm totally supporting Helen in her decision, what she did with the team and the players she played.  So, you know, she probably had a reason for why she did the way she was doing, and so, you know, it's easy to say afterwards.   
 I felt great.  I played well coming into this week.  I've been playing well all year.  Maybe she didn't want me to.  I don't know.   
  
  Q.  Do you feel like you practiced okay and stuff before playing?   
 LINDA WESSBERG:  Yeah.  Yeah.  I felt great.  It's really hard.  I came in from the U.S. on Monday night, and it takes a few days the adjust and all that stuff so -- but, yeah.   
  
  Q.  Your caddie, were you happy with him?   
 LINDA WESSBERG:  He's done a great job.  He's pretty much running all over the place.  He's a little bit energetic.   
  
  Q.  What happened with his hair?   
 LINDA WESSBERG:  I had plenty to do.  To get away sometimes, I have to look for him.   
  
  Q. Thanks, Linda.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT