BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 26, 2019
John Chin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Just some thoughts on your round today?  It must have been disappointing not to birdie the last.  The caddie said you had a 6-iron on the last hole.  
JOHN CHIN: A little disappointing.  That's how the format is, you want to make as many birdies as you can.  But overall, a pretty good day, pretty solid.  Hit the ball pretty good and made a couple of putts, so, I'm satisfied.   
 Q.  How do you like this format?  
JOHN CHIN: It's fun.  It's kind of a go-for-broke.  But you've still got to plod your way around and hit good tee shots, hit good shots into greens.  Obviously you can't just go for everything, but it's just different, but it's a lot of fun.   
 Q.  Rookie year on tour, what have you been learning the most?  
JOHN CHIN: I've had a crappy year so far.   
 Q.  And why is that?  
JOHN CHIN: Well, I mean, playing from the Korn Ferry Tour, it's a little bit different -- obviously the crowds, the course, the way it's playing, the conditions, everything.  It's a lot tougher out here.  It's definitely (indiscernible).  You've really got to golf your ball.  And I was able to do that the first rounds and hopefully keep do it.   
 Q.  I know you've missed a lot of cuts, but you made a handful.  That was an important cut to make last week at Barbasol.  I know you made a lot of birdies at the end of that second round.  Looking back, how important do you think that would be?  
JOHN CHIN: Any round I could take positive into the next one.  Obviously the season's almost over, and I'd like to do as well as I can.  But I took a lot of positives last week even though I finished right around 40th.  But I felt good into this week.  So I'm just riding along.   
 Q.  And have you had much experience being in the mix, like going into the weekend on the Korn Ferry Tour? (Indiscernible).  
JOHN CHIN: Yeah, finished second twice last year, right in contention and finished second actually at the last one to get my card.  So just draw off the positives from that, and hopefully go into the weekend.   
 Q.  When it rains off and on like this, does it play with your mental state a little bit?  
JOHN CHIN: No, not really.  I'm a Cali boy, so pretty close to the West Coast.  I don't know what rain is.  It's freaking me out.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT