NCAA WOMEN'S FINAL FOUR
March 26, 1999
Nicole Erickson
Gail Goestenkors
Georgia Schweitzer
Michele Vangorp
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








COACH GAIL GOESTENKORS: Georgia is an excellent team.  They made some great runs, and I thought we withstood the runs and really showed a lot of poise down the stretch.  And I  just can't be any prouder of this team.  We played with confidence.  And I also thought we played very relaxed, which I thought was very important, and just with kind of a championship mentality that we've shown all year long.  I thought our defense in the second half really stepped up.  And just excited and ready to play.


Q.  Michele only had I think two points in the first 14-and-a-half minutes, and then she had 8 points in the last five minutes of the first half.  Did you change anything to help that out?

COACH GAIL GOESTENKORS: Not much.  We changed one of our quick hitters just to give it a little different look just because they were doubling her. And it made it more difficult for them to double her with the change that we made.  But I think she just demanded the ball a little more. The defense loosened up a little bit.  And we got her the ball, which is always helpful in scoring.  She was fading away a little bit early on, and we wanted to go right at their post players.  We thought we could get them in foul trouble.  She started really attacking the basket, and I thought that was really big.


Q.  Nicole, the work that you and Howard were able to do in the backcourt taking care of the ball, was that the poise that your coach mentioned?

NICOLE ERICKSON:  I think it is poise.  And I think it has to do with being seniors and playing against this kind of competition all year long.  I think that's basically it.  And I think we feel confident in giving the ball to each other.  We have three people that can really bring the ball up, you know, and that helps a lot.


Q.  Your team probably has less physical talent than any other team here.  Within the last nine days you've beaten a Top-10 team and now you're in a national championship game.  How do you explain that?

COACH GAIL GOESTENKORS: Great players.  Just great players.  I don't think you have to be athletic to be a great player.  Very smart players.  And they do a great job.  We give them a game plan and they stick to the game plan; and they know personnel very, very well.  They are very, very focused; so if someone has got a weakness, we take advantage of it.


Q.  Gail, I noticed since Monday in your game against Tennessee, and this is for the whole team, I notice that when you guys came out in the second half, about midway through the second half you all looked at each other and really started believing that you could  beat Tennessee. Ever since then it seems that you guys have been on a level where you actually believe that you could win the national championship.

COACH GAIL GOESTENKORS: Actually, we believed that from day one.  So, we always thought we were going to beat Tennessee.  I don't think any of our players questioned that.  We always -- from day one we talked about winning the national championship.  We visualized it.  We're not surprised.  And it's nothing new for us.


Q.  Nicole, could you explain a little bit about the defense you guys played on the Millers, and also how you offset their pressure defense.

NICOLE ERICKSON:  We know they like to go left, shoot a couple dribbles, shoot a jumper; make the 3.  So, we wanted to force them to go right and just try to knock balls as much as we could and just kind of follow them around a little bit and it worked.


Q.  Was there any kind of emotional letdown from the Tennessee game or did you have one -- was there any emotional letdown from the Tennessee game that you could see?  And were you more worried about that?  Or I don't think --

COACH GAIL GOESTENKORS: I don't think we had an emotional letdown at all.  I think the players were ready to play. Tennessee was a very emotional game for us.  We were exhausted the next day.  If we had a letdown, it was the next day.  Fortunately, we don't have to play.  And after the players got a good night's sleep and the players had a long talk, we were very focused.  I didn't feel worried, and I feel like we're ready to play.


Q.  Girls?

GEORGIA SCHWEITZER:  I feel like what she said, maybe that night when we first got back to school. It was pretty exciting.  But we got our feet back on the ground, ready to play again.


Q.  Nicole, can you please talk a little bit about the situation, how you transferred from Purdue -- (Inaudible) -- to Duke, which is obviously progressed to the Final Two?

NICOLE ERICKSON:  Right now we're just focusing on the people we have to play.  We haven't really been focusing on Purdue too much.  It's good for them that they are here.  But that's not really our focus.  They are just going to be somebody that we have to beat, possibly to win the national championship.


Q.  I'm wondering if you paid any special attention to Kelly or were you trying to concentrate on any of the players?

NICOLE ERICKSON:  We knew that we were going to focus on the twins.  We know that they take about 30 of the team's 47 shots.  So hopefully if we can stop  them, that's a lot on their offense.


Q.  Michele, I'm wondering if you could talk a little bit about your matchup with Tawana McDonald.  It looked like it was tougher than maybe we would have anticipated, given in your experience versus her.  But what was it like playing against her?  And was her height a factor for you?

MICHELE VANGORP:  I don't know.  It's just like playing anyone else.  You just take what you can get.  I don't even really consider it a big deal.


Q.  Coach, if you can address -- Georgia really seems to thrive off of transition baskets, and every time they had a small spurt you came back with an answer.  What did you do to contain their fast break easy baskets?  And was it something that you specifically designed for your defense?

COACH GAIL GOESTENKORS: It wasn't anything specific.  They got some early transition buckets on us.  We switched our match-ups a little bit to put Nicole on Coco.  We started with Georgia on Coco, but we wanted Georgia to go to the boards a little bit more.  She was penetrating.  It helped us because we had Nicole, and she could get back a little quicker. Nicole does a great job of getting back quick.  And obviously Hilary Howard was also back.  It's hard for them to run when you score, and we were very patient on offense.  When you take care of the ball, which we did, and we score your baskets, it takes away the transition game.


Q.  Nicole, could you just talk about the 3-point shooting? You guys were just executing that perfectly; and especially you in the second half.  What got you free?

NICOLE ERICKSON:  Basically penetrating, skipping, stealing.  I had wide-open looks and today they were falling.


Q.  Michele, you had a solid second half.  You had a three-pointer -- (Inaudible).  Can you tell me why you took that shot?

MICHELE VANGORP: I don't take a whole lot of them.  I'm really probably a lot more effective in the baskets.  But, like I said, they were open -- pretty much were smothering me when I got on the block.  My open shots were pretty much jumpers.  To be honest, I didn't know where my feet were.  I just knew I felt comfortable taking that shot from there; so, I just put it up.


Q.  Your outside shooting game for today was really the 3-pointer.  What about Peppi Browne, did she step up today?

COACH GAIL GOESTENKORS: Peppi played an excellent game.  One of her best of the season. Especially early on in the game.  With her penetration  got them in some foul trouble, their post players in some foul trouble.  They had a tough time defending her.  She also did a great job on the boards.  I think this is one of her best overall games.


Q.  Can you talk about you guys made a couple huge shots, and Lauren had not been shooting particularly well and hit that three-pointer.  And Michele hit that shot at the shot clock.  What did those clutch shots mean to you?

COACH GAIL GOESTENKORS: Those were huge.  And I was so proud of Lauren, in particular, just because she was missing her little jumper that she nails all the time.  And when you do that, you start second-guessing yourself.  So I was very proud of the way she came back.  She can hit the 3-point shot, and has been hitting pretty well lately for us.  It seems like our last three games she's hit a big three.  Fortunately, this one didn't bang in like the other ones.  She knows when we need her.  She is going to take the shot.  And she has great focus.  Nicole also hit a couple of big baskets for us.  And she's been doing that all year long.  So it feels good to -- I think that the team gives each other confidence.  When someone is not on their game, just say keep on shooting, we believe in you, and I think that makes all the difference in the world.


Q.  Nicole, Georgia made like three runs at you in the second half.  Can you talk about keeping your poise during that time in.

NICOLE ERICKSON:  Every great team is going to make their runs.  And especially like the Tennessee game.  We made -- we withstood their runs, and we're comfortable with it.  We know that other teams are going to do it, and we take care of business.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT