CHAMP CAR MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 18, 2006
Steve Johnson
Paul Stoddart
Keith Wiggins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 STEVE JOHNSON: Thank you and good morning to everybody. This is another big day for the Champ Car  World Series as we welcome a man that is respected around the world for his  accomplishments in business as well as in motorsports. Paul Stoddart will bring a new perspective to  the Champ Car World Series having guided the fortunes of the Minardi F1 team  for five seasons, and we look forward to many years of racing with him here at  Champ Car.   
 Today's announcement also speaks  volumes for what the new Minardi Team USA was able to accomplish as CTE  Racing - HVM in 2006. Rebounding after a  trying season in 2005, the team grew into a consistent threat in 2006 winning  with Nelson Philippe in Australia, taking the Rookie of the Year  fight to the last race of the season with Dan Clarke, and setting a new team  standard by finishing fourth in the final standings with Nelson.   
 This will be a great partnership for  Champ Car, for the fans and for the team and I'm very pleased to welcome Paul  Stoddart to our Champ Car family.   
 PAUL STODDART: Thank you, Steve and good morning and good  evening to everybody. First of all, may  I say the very professional way that Champ Car goes about running this series,  we looked long and hard before making this series. That's one of the key reasons for us joining  Champ Car ranks.   
 We look forward to an exciting time  and some really close racing, particularly with the new Panoz DP01 car. And I think it's already been said by Steve  that a fantastic job was done by Keith and his really quality team of engineers  and mechanics and to finish fourth in the championship, particularly given  their budget was a really, really serious effort.   
 Minardi Team USA, we are looking to  actually extend and build on the good work that Keith and his people have done,  and we'll bring a few interesting aspects to the team and I'm looking forward  to a really, really solid 2007.   
  
 KEITH WIGGINS: Well, I think, you know, the team's history,  and since the beginning we've been through a few changes that for me, the  beginning point of 2001, I think the team has had some very resourceful -- with  all credit to Enrique and when we started the team as a program, and a few  hiccups happens along the way as always happens with motor racing, and you  continue to strive and build on that. That's  always the challenge of motor racing.   
 Last year we had a year where we  were able to go out and fight, as we said, somewhat restricted. But, you know, it's all about building good  people. We had a good team spirit, and  you always work toward, you know, the next stage coming along and I think the  team has been well informed. The guys  know what was going on, but they knew that this was something that we were  working on and it's no secret that every team needs stability, the ability to  challenge strongly. You need to know a  bit more than year-to-year where your future lies.  
 I think Paul brings a very exciting  mix, because, you know, I think we've hit it off in the beginning, which is  very important. But secondly, you know,  he brings a great deal of resources and talents. He's been in the business. A lot of people come into a company and  there's an education process. I mean,  obviously you hit the ground running in this relationship. And Paul has got a lot of good resources and  a lot of exciting things to bring, and I think for the team, everybody is  obviously very energized. It's  confirmation of what they believed was going to happen, and it just let's us  think now on it another level of rather than, okay, how do we get through to  next year.   
 Now it's a question of, okay, this  is how we're going to attack next year, and we even mention, you know, how  we're attacking the year after, which is a bit of a refreshing thing to have a  discussion after a couple of years.   
 So it just brings stability,  excitement, good, strong resources and talents that adds to what we have and  gives us the ability to now with the new car say, you know, how can we really  get up to the next level.   
  
  
  Q.  First of all I wanted to ask, in the press release it says that you'll  be running a multi-car team. How exact  can you be, are we talking three cars, four cars? What's the situation?   
 PAUL STODDART: It's two cars, two cars confirmed, and we  have not discounted a third car. We are  obviously talking to people at the moment that would make that happen or not as  the case may be.  
  
  Q.  Is there a chance Katherine Legge could be part of your lineup?  
 PAUL STODDART: There is a chance that Katherine, together  with several other drivers, could be a part of our lineup.   
 I think the only hint I've given on  that so far is to say that there's somebody who has driven a Minardi likely in  the lineup at some point next year.   
 KEITH WIGGINS: And I think our lineup, we're discussing with  a number of drivers as Paul said, so that will come out later on.   
 PAUL STODDART: It will be in the new year I suspect.   
  
  Q.  I understand that there will be some Dutch investments because Dutch  millionaire and entrepreneur Harry Muermans is probably involved and the second  question is, there are talks that Jos Verstappen might join Champ Car, and why  should he be driving for the Team USA since he has also driven in F1?   
 PAUL STODDART: First of all, to your first question, Harry  Muermans is not only a business associate but he's also a good friend, as well  and yes, you are correct that there will be some involvement from Harry Muermans. The exact nature of that involvement is not  yet finalized. I was with Harry  yesterday in Rotterdam, and again, that will be an announcement made  in the new year, but yes, there will be some involvement.  
 As for Jos Verstappen, Jos and I go  back a long ways. He drove for me in  2003, but I go back as far as '97 with Jos and we have a good working  relationship. I think he would be an  asset to the series. I think he would be  an asset to Team Minardi USA and yes, there is negotiations going on, but  again, there will be no announcements this side of the new year.   
  
  Q.  And your thoughts on another Dutchman, Robert Doornbos?   
 PAUL STODDART: Robert, another ex-Minardi driver, a driver  I've worked with and a driver I thought did incredibly well in the second half  of '05, and obviously had another chance to do the last three races of the  Formula 1 2006 season. Again Robert is  someone we are talking to.  
 I think as you guys, particularly  the Holland media know, I myself personally and  indeed through Minardi have had a tremendous relationship with Holland over the years and long may it  continue. So expect some exciting  announcements in the new year.   
  
  Q.  When you talked to us in Australia, we asked if you were just bored,  what really drove you, did you want to get back to Formula 1. In the final analysis, what was the one thing  that made you want to come to Champ Car; the fact that you didn't have to race  $300 million, or the fact that you just missed racing or can you be more  specific?   
 PAUL STODDART: First of all, I think it was the fact that I  found a team that I could identify with.  Keith touched on it very briefly in the opening address when he said  that him and I gelled and got on really from the first minute we met, and that  is true. You do have a warm feeling when  you meet people, whether they are people you can work with and think  like-mindedly to yourself and you think you can go forward with them.  
 With Keith and his team, I found a  team of real professionals that made it probably a little bit more funding, a  little bit more encouragement to actually got the job done. My first visit with HVM made me more than  curious and that was just after I'd seen you in Australia.   
 And, of course, further negotiations  led to today's announcement. And I feel  very confident that our investment is -- it is as it was in the Minardi. Our investment is in the people and I think  we have a good team of people and I'm looking forward to good results. So that's the main motivation. And just to correct you on one other thing, I  never did raise $300 million.   
  
  Q.  I remember you telling me once when you left Grand Prix your budget was  like 58 million and you were only 250 behind McClarren or somebody.   
 KEITH WIGGINS: It was 45 more than I ever managed in 45.   
  
  Q.  The only thing we keep hearing is that you're helping with the second  European race; that they are trying to get you involved with your contacts over  in Europe as far as trying to help be the promoter over there; any truth to  that?   
 PAUL STODDART: Not in the '07 season. I have already stated that in future years, I  would be more than happy to assist with colleagues and contacts, but no, I can  confirm not for the '07 season.   
  
  Q.  Paul can you talk about your thoughts in pretty much introducing the  Minardi brand in the American market?  
 PAUL STODDART: I think Minardi has been traditionally known  over the years as a team that tries to punch above its weight. As was joking said in the last question, was  the fact that we had struggled year after year to attain budgets that weren't  good enough to fight in F1 and the figure of 50 million was mentioned, and  that's a pretty accurate figure.  
 As you know budgets far less than  that can do a lot more in Champ Car, and that's one of the attractions of  coming to this series. It's very  affordable racing in a professional and well-organized way that gives everyone  a reasonable chance without going into the stratosphere to find budget. Certainly bringing our ability to find a  necessary level of money, which in Champ Car could give us a little bit more  than what perhaps it did in F1.  
 And the other thing I think we  probably bring is the Minardi never-say-die attitude; that when you need to  achieve is not necessarily, you know, miracles we used to joke and say  miracles, they take a little bit longer but the impossible we did straightaway.   
  
  Q.  Enjoyed knowing Cindric the entertainer, will he have any continued  involvement with the team?  
 PAUL STODDART: Certainly hope so. We've kept the door open for Cindric and we  think there's a lot of work and effort into that relationship. Keith is probably a little better qualified  to answer that than I am at the moment. But  I certainly from a personal point of view think he's had a lot to add and it  will dovetail nicely into another program we have heading into Champ Car for  '07 and beyond.   
 So, yeah, I hope he stays involved.  
 KEITH WIGGINS: Cindric's name will still be there. We still have the marketing relationship and  we'll be with him tomorrow. Again, it  just brings all of these elements together to make it just a stronger unit.   
  
  Q.  Paul, welcome to the series. Look  forward very much to working with you, you're renowned for a man who is  somewhat of an, in quotation marks, a character, someone who has never afraid  to speak his mind and say exactly what he thinks. I would imagine that legacy would continue  with Champ Car; would I be accurate?   
 PAUL STODDART: I'm hoping that it won't have to in the way  that it did in Formula 1. I hope that I  won't need to ever get as political and as boisterous as I needed to do there.  
 No, I have a great relationship with  Kevin Kalkhoven as well, and that dates back a few years now. So I really do think that working with all of  the guys is going to be a refreshing period as against some of the stress that  was there in Formula 1, particularly the last few years, and sure as hell  continued without me.   
  
  Q.  Can you give us a time line on when you take delivery of the new Panoz  DP01 and when you will start testing with it and when you hope to have it wound  up and ready for 2007?   
 KEITH WIGGINS: We'll try to keep it on the ground rather  than it fly, but you never know. We  receive the cars the same as everybody else, which is basically in about a  day's time, Wednesday, I believe it is. They  are all dressed up with bows for us.   
 And we have a plan which, again, is  exactly the same plan we've always had. Nothing  has changed. We just obviously can  breathe a sigh of relief that we can achieve all of those goals, which is the  cars will come here and they will be prepared.  Obviously we need to get to know them.  There are certain tests and various things we want to do with the cars,  and then they will be prepared and put in the liveries and we will go with everybody  else in Champ Car with the new regulations.   
 Tests starts on January 15 for three  days, and that's the organized -- the only times that you can test after those  three, which is January, February and March.  So we will go through those tests and various other forms of testing and  be ready with everybody else.   
 ERIC MAUK: Quick follow-up on what Keith said. All ten teams will be taking delivery of  their first Panoz at 10:00 a.m. on Wednesday morning from the Indianapolis headquarters, and as he alluded to,  the first Champ Car open test will take place at Sebring International Raceway  January 23 through 25.   
  
  Q.  Do you feel like with a brand new car that you guys are on more of an  equal footing with the other teams, especially when you're talking about the  first race in Las Vegas?   
 PAUL STODDART: Yes, I mean, that obviously is one of the  attractions that got me involved. It was  a good time to come in with the new car, and it was a leveling of the playing  field but also I equally do not underestimate the talent and ability that's  already out there. So, you know, we are  going to go in with high expectations, but with a dash of reality thrown in.   
 KEITH WIGGINS: And I think that the good teams will always  come to the top. And you know, I don't  think the orders will change so much, obviously it's more relying on  engineering and the drivers with a lot more restrictions, but a lot of teams  have time to develop, you know, to catch up with the other car, so I think it's  a question of who comes out of the box.   
 Of course, it's much more achievable  with the restrictions on what you can do to the cars. But as Paul said, we're realistic but I'm  also pretty optimistic that we had a lot of people and we had some of the best  cars out there over the years which I think was proven over periods of people  who watched the detail, and I'm very motivated that our guys will come out with  as good of cars as anybody out there.   
  
  Q.  Paul, obviously you talked about getting the money sponsorship on the  Formula 1 front, the difficulties there, what do you think the key selling  points are for Champ Car?   
 PAUL STODDART: I think first of all, the budget that you're  looking to attain is a sensible budget. And  I wouldn't say it's very achievable; if it was easy everybody would do it. But it is achievable, because you're getting  more bang for your buck. That's the only  easy way to put it. Champ Car represents  a tremendous investment.  
 And from a sponsor-payback point of  view, I think we've got a few ideas that perhaps are a little bit different to  those that have been tried in the past. And  I'm very, very confident that we will attain the budget that we set for this  year and as Keith alluded to, budgets we're already looking to for years 2008,  2009 and beyond. I think we will make  it.  
 I don't underestimate the fact that  people will say, you can't attain Formula 1-type budgets in any other form of  sport or in any other form of motorsport.  But I think there's a good, a good level playing field that will allow  teams to go out there and market successfully and get the type of sponsors into  the series and into the teams that will allow us to fund, fully fund, our  year-in, year-out programs, so I feel quite confident.   
  
  Q.  Not so much selling points, but what do you think the key strengths are  of Champ Car?  
 PAUL STODDART: First that, it's a well-organized, well-run,  well-disciplined series with participants that when the lights -- they race  from lights to flag, but it doesn't strike me as it's got anywhere near the  politics that you do get in some other forms of motorsport.   
 And secondly, I do feel that racing  on street circuits and on oval circuits give us a bit of an edge as well. I think it makes a tremendous spectator sport  from the aspect of, you know, whether it be corporate hospitality or whether it  be entertaining, sponsors, or just the general public at large. I think Champ Car has proven, particularly  with these three-day festivals, it is actually a fan-friendly series, and I  think that's incredibly important. Because  the day you forget the fans is the day you start to degrade your own business.   
  
  Q.  No comparison to Formula 1?  
 PAUL STODDART: No comparison, and that's something Minardi  tried to strive, and which is bringing it back to the people. And I think Champ Car has certainly already  achieved that and that's certainly one of the things that attracted me to Champ  Car.   
  
  Q.  The two of you sort of alluded to this in your previous comments, but as  two guys who kind of share a similar background in having been sort of the  leading lights, the leading forces in a couple of Formula 1 teams, to steal a  line from Paul, punched above their weight, I wonder if that is -- soft of  makeup in both of your characters is something that kind of helped this  relationship gel quickly, and if you could maybe both of you sort of comment on  that.   
 PAUL STODDART: I knew I was going to get that one  first. No, look there is certainly some  certain synergies there. Keith, we  actually joked about this because Keith left Formula 1 the year I came into  it. And I think, you know, Formula 1,  they call is the Piranna Club; certainly it doesn't take prisoners; comparisons  like it's a baptism of fire etc. They  have all been used over the years. But  it is a tough, no-holds-barred business, and it is business, unfortunately.   
 Unfortunately the sport side really  is somewhat overshadowed by the politics in the business, which is quite  sad. But it does actually get one ready  for just about anything else, and I think Keith and I have both been through  the mill at different times. We know  what it's like to have to fight and for what we believe, in and yes, I'm sure  that's part of what made us quick straightaway.   
 But nevertheless, both of us have  got our feet on the ground and we know that our challenge is to do a good job  in 2007 in Champ Car and beyond. And the  Formula 1 background can be interesting, but we forget all of that when the  lights go green in Vegas.   
 KEITH WIGGINS: I think it's been -- I'd like to think it's  as basic as wanting to achieve. Clearly,  Paul took on that challenge of Formula 1 and survived it a lot longer than I  did, proved that he was a fighter.   
 I'd like to refer that Pacific was  the only team in history that have won every championship below Formula 1 which  shows my attitude towards competition, which that's my priority before anything  else, money, anything else, is winning. And  Formula 1 is a desire, I was clearly out of my depth but was something you had  to do and a little bit probably more sensible these days; comes with age.   
 I think it's a fundamental and the  reason we gel is, again, having come up from the European ranks, you just try  and do everything as professional and as solid as you can without  compromise. And I think we probably have  in different walks, a similar attitude. I  think it's as simple as that. You know  someone wants to do the thing right. Sometimes  you've got to accept that, you know, there's not always total community in what  you want to do, but you're doing it for the right reasons. And with a lot of teams, sometimes there's a  bit more bullshit and you have to subserve to things that are a compromise  because of the other party bring the funding needs or something like that.   
 I think with us, okay, how can we  make a good team and that's the key is down to either the character or the  development.   
  
  Q.  Certainly you are two characters who have character, put it that way, in  my estimation. And I wondered and sort  of along the same lines, you have said to me in the past, I believe the quote  is, you're someone who doesn't necessarily function at his best if I could --  and I think the quote was, you don't do your best working for others. But obviously to some degree, there's going  to be a change in the way the team operates this year because of the new  arrangement, and I just wondered if the two of you could sort of, you know,  obviously not in specifics, but sort of in broad, general outlines explain what  your roles will be in the day-to-day operation of team Minardi USA.   
 KEITH WIGGINS: Paul, you go ahead.   
 PAUL STODDART: I think, look, there's no question, and we  said in the press statement that, Keith will be remaining in charge of the  day-to-day aspect and management of the team.   
 Certainly what I'll bring to it will  be resource, and also probably a little bit of street wisdom that I've acquired  over the years.   
 I think there is no issue with us  about the way the team is going forward.  I've already met all of the guys.  I was lucky enough to be at the Christmas party with them on Friday  evening, and that was a good chance to get around and meet everyone. They are a good, motivated bunch of guys and  we are obviously going to bring a new form and strengthen that team, and it is  just that; it's strengthening the team.   
 So as Keith already mentioned  before, we both have the same goal, which is to get up there and to win  races. And if we can't win them, to get  damn close in trying to win them. I  don't actually see too many conflicts, and if I did think that, then the  chances are that we would not have got into this deal in the first place.   
 And I don't see as Keith working for  me; I see it as us working together and there's a monumental difference there.  
 KEITH WIGGINS: Obviously Paul has other things he's working  on as well. We all know that other  people have tried it. But you know, you  can't live in a different country and you need someone.  
 So I think our goals, the day-to-day will  continue and I will continue to do all of the same things that I've done and  still continue to work with Cindric on the other programs and with the drivers  we've got. There's no real overlap. I mean, it's really filling a void that we  needed which was, you know, as Paul said, to develop the business and the  resource side.   
  
  Q.  Paul, when you were in Formula 1, it was sort of part of necessity, but  you had quite a history of bringing drivers into the series. There is a series called the Atlantic series,  is there any sort of possibility you might end up with Minardi there as well?   
 PAUL STODDART: At the moment, the answer is no, only because  we need to -- there is not a lot of time as has been previously mentioned. We take delivery of the new car on Wednesday  and the first tests are in January.   
 So there's not enough time now to  think seriously about Atlantics but it does seem to be a tremendous  formula. It certainly produces awfully  good people and I do think it's something we could be looking at seriously in  the future but not for '07.  
  
  Q.  I guess you saw the Atlantic this year and the new car and the new  format and everything else and the new cars coming in next year, can you talk a  little bit about how you feel things are going to work out next year with Champ  Car with the new car, the new rules and all of the like?   
 PAUL STODDART: Well, I think we've got some exciting new  races as well. I think that race in  Vegas is going to be memorable to say the least. I was privileged enough to go around the  circuit on Tuesday last, and I think it's going to be absolutely fantastic.  
 The new car is a level of the  playing field, as Keith mentioned. The  top teams will always get back up there.  But it gives a chance for a team like us that's coming in with a few new  ideas and perhaps a bit more funding just to use our engineering experience to  get an early advantage and perhaps do something a bit special. And I think also with Champ Car you've got  the ability that you can bring drivers on if the drivers are good, engineers'  championship, and I think we can have some exciting times ahead.   
 I really do think that it's the  right series for us. It's something that  as I said before, it brings the whole sport to the people to the fans, that's  important for me, some great racing, a new car.  It's certainly the right time for us.   
  
  Q.  Paul, curious even though if you live afar, will you personally plan on  being at all of the races next year?   
 PAUL STODDART: If I'm not at all, it will be near, when  people say to me where I live these days I say 37,000 feet because that's what  it feels like, I really do mean that. I  do a lot of traveling. I think having an  airline does help a little bit, but certainly it's my aim to be at not just  races, but at tests, as well.   
  
  Q.  Obviously Champ Car has had some great news the last couple of weeks,  great rebound from past couple tumultuous years, how do you feel with this  announcement and all of the announcements coming up before the holiday break?  
 STEVE JOHNSON: You feel good. You're never quite as far along as you want,  and we've got several other things that we just want to try to get finalized  before the holidays, don't know if it's a reality or not, but we're working on  a lot of good things.   
 You know, those things are not  happening by accident and it's a business plan that we're following. You know, it seems that the good news comes  in batches. So I would just say, stay  tuned. We have a couple others that  we're going to be announcing soon as well.  
  
  Q.  Paul, obviously you like the series, that's why you're joining, but how  do you feel about the good news coming OUT recently?  
 PAUL STODDART: It's fantastic and it's the decision that now  is the right time to do it. Champ Car  has a tremendously exciting future.   
 And as I said right at the start,  what brought me into it is it's well-organized and it's fan-friendly. If you add that to the fact that we have a  new car and a leveling of the playing field, I think it is something that is  right for us to do.   
  
  Q.  So you talk about how you find these people friendly and easy to work  with, are you going to find it that way when it's in the heat of competition,  as well?   
 PAUL STODDART: I've had a lot of experience with situations,  and I'd like to think, anyway, I mean, time will be a judge of this. But I'd like to think that I'm a reasonably  good judge of people, and certainly, you know, there was a real bonus being  able to get Friday night, because obviously I met Keith and I had met Kevin and  I had met various other people at that level.  But I had not had a lot of time to meet and greet the boys, and that was  a great opportunity Friday.   
 I came away at some ungodly hour  Saturday morning feeling very, very positive.  But the decision was right, the people were right. I made it very clear to them that we are only  going to strengthen, we are not looking to do anything else and that we also  are fully aware, that we come in with plates on at this stage, and we are going  to look listen and learn and strengthening and hope that it's a recipe for success.   
  
  Q.  I noticed that no one seems to be talking about American drivers. Can you talk about what Americans would need  to get to this level so that they would be prepared and ready to compete at  this level?   
 PAUL STODDART: I think you've got American drivers coming  on. I actually think that Atlantics and  other series will bring on Americans. It's  just that at this moment in time, I can see there does seem to be more  foreigners out there than there is home-grown talents. But I'm sure that over time that's going to  be addressed and some of the American drivers are actually not in America.  They are competing elsewhere.   
 You know, let's give it time. I think everyone is aware of the need to have  national heroes.   
 KEITH WIGGINS: And I think one of the core problems before  is that there has not been some really good, identified feeder series. There's been a lot of voids in the latter,  and Champ Car has helped address that with especially now the strength of the  Atlantic series.   
 There's one series in Europe GP2,  Formula 3, there's a whole run and really that's why some of the Americans have  gone over is to find that level of competition early on. You'll find that it can't happen overnight  obviously but gradually that void will fill with the talent.   
  
  Q.  Keith, we were talking the other day, if I can just put in a time frame  the last time you went into the holidays and the new year feeling secure about  the next season, and be honest about it, go all the way back to Enrique and  talk about what it usually is like this time of the year for you.   
 KEITH WIGGINS: Well, I'm not sure, funny enough you don't  come to work on a Monday morning and say, 'okay, I'm secure' because it's just  not in your makeup. You're starting to  think about what the next problems are.   
 Obviously our focus is on the  drivers and make sure that we have a competitive team, but it's fairly true to  say, I mean, I'm not -- maybe I'm not the smartest guy in the world because  I've spent a lot of my years even in the earlier days obviously Formula 1 over  two Christmases was probably enough to -- I can't remember what my head was  doing at that time.   
 But you know, the only reason I came  over in the beginning, you know, I said I wasn't going to be involved in teams  after sort of 16 or 18 years. I said the  only reason I did the deal was we got together with Enrique. And when I said when you provide a solid  platform, I'll put the team together and that seemed to me like a perfect  mix. And you know, again, I have a great  loyalty and affection for that period of time.   
 Again, no one planned, but four  years with any program is a pretty good run, and then suddenly I ended up sort  of my shoulders got a bit wider and there was this situation with a team that  you just could not let it die because of what we've built.   
 And so, yeah, there's a couple of  years on, Christmases generally are not a very fun time, I must admit, because  you're usually up against it. I mean,  how do I get the next year; certainly not the best business you take to the  bank, plan for years ahead. Yeah, they  are difficult. It's always probably the  worst time of the year when you have a team, you're used to doing that and I  don't think you should lose sight of that or become complacent.   
 It is a nice feeling, and I don't  think it's really sunk in yet to be honest that we don't have to worry, because  we still have to worry. We still have to  put the budget together. We still have  to get the drivers, and there's less excuses now of course to move up.   
 But I guess, yeah, now that you've  actually mentioned it, there's a little less nail-biting and probably get drunk  more this Christmas.   
  
  Q.  Quick question, Paul, you sort of alluded to maybe doing some things to  bring in a few people to sort of strengthen -- to further strengthen what was  already a pretty good team last year. This  comes at a time when other teams seem to kind of be adding with engineering and  other capabilities, and with the new car, at least for 2007, the amount of  development work that you're allowed to do on the car is going to be very  restrictive. I wondered if perhaps and  you Keith can both address kind of how the team is going to prepare and maybe  attack the 2007 car differently than it has over the past couple of years with  what was effectively the spec Lola, but was -- but which you could,  comparatively more free to develop?   
 PAUL STODDART: Obviously the Lola, let's go back five  years. There was so much development  that spending $20 or $25 million was a possibility to develop the car. I think rules have tightened down on the car  and I think because the car stayed somewhat stable, it's allowed a lot of the  others teams -- you know, it's no secret, migration, plenty of engineers have  disappeared, a lot of hours have been poached over time and information  spreads.   
 So the car does become a bit more  spec in the sense that most people know a lot of the development that the other  people have done. You know, with USB  these days, it's pretty easy for people, information. It's still there and we still manage, I think  even last year we showed that we found some more development in the car  ourselves.  
 But I think the new car, we have a  plan for the new car and nothing is going to change and it's just a different  mentality. And we've done it in other  series, if it's a spec, then what are the areas, you've got to find out what  the differences are between that car and this car. And if you've got good engineering, good  analysis, then the real key is comparison.  And then finding out where the weak areas are and finding the little  things that you can do rather than the big things, like going back to the  Formula Ford days. Devil is in the  detail and I think that's where we will go.   
 Again, this was alluded to the last  question, there's been many years when we've sat here and said, oh, this is  what I'd like to do, if only we had the budget to do it. And sometimes it can be a bit grating when  you have to take -- put some drivers that are not talented into cars which you  know are good and try and do development and keep the motivation with engineers  to do development. Because, you know,  you want the front runners and you want to know that it's put to good use.   
 Again, one of the good things here  is that we've looked at a plan of how to develop a car and looked at that small  stuff. This situation now gives us the  ability to know that we can carry through all those ideas and know that we've  got resources, and you know, a couple of people here and there that we've been  talking to, we can go ahead and secure them and carry through, follow through,  shall we say.   
  
  Q.  Paul, in the beginning you alluded to two drivers being confirmed, with  a possibility of more. Can you talk  about if the drivers from last year, Nelson Philippe and Dan Clarke, are in the  mix or not? And the second part of the  question is, you mentioned the possibility of a third car, is there any  possibility of a fourth car or is three your absolute maximum?   
 PAUL STODDART: It was actually two cars that were confirmed  with a possibility of a third. In terms  of drivers, yes, for sure, both Nelson and Dan are still in the picture. And in addition to that there are at least  two other drivers that we are talking very seriously to and one or two that we  are in earlier stages of negotiations with.   
 So it would be wrong for us to go  into that today other than to say that we are actively talking to four and  more. And a fourth car, I think that  would be a bit much for next year. I  think a third car is what we're aiming for and if we can see that we've got  three drivers that will complement each other, complement the information and  data feedback to the team, you know, then it's a possibility.   
  
  Q.  Is your goal to have all two or three drivers before the first test in  January?  
 PAUL STODDART: That's what we're hoping for. We've self imposed a date of January 15 as  the day that we would like to know who our two drivers are for sure, and we  will probably still be negotiating with the third.   
  
  Q.  In Australia, we talked about the possibility of the Minardi two-seater  cars maybe being used; is that still in the mix for this next year?   
 PAUL STODDART: Certainly is and I think you know that's  something again that will be discussed in more detail in the new year. But yeah, I think it's fair it say that  you'll certainly see them at some point.   
  
  Q.  Paul with your arrival from the Formula 1 community and now with the  Champ Car World Series, is it realistic to think -- and maybe it's fantasy on  my part, I don't know, that there are others in the F1 community that are like  you, going to look at the Champ Car World Series as something that they may  also want to do?   
 PAUL STODDART: I think it's early days to say that. But what I would probably do is just turn  that around a little bit and say that Champ Car is viewed as being very  credible, very respectable and very well managed, so you could not discount  that possibility.   
 I think I'm the only one that's  publically said it but I know privately there's at least one other formula team  owner who is quietly thinking at this point in time.   
  
  Q.  And Steve, quick question for you, is there such an animal as an ideal  car count in terms of the total number of cars?  You're not going to turn anybody down because you saw, wow that's too  many or there's too few; is there such an animal as an ideal number for you do  you have a number in mind? Is it 24  cars? How would you describe that?   
 STEVE JOHNSON: I think 22 to 24 cars would be a healthy  grid. I think it would be a lot of  excitement but really comes down to quality of drivers as well. What you don't want is 24 or 26 cars when  half your lap is under yellow or half your race is under yellow. That's not part of the goal.   
 So to answer your question, yeah,  22, 24 would be a great number.   
  
   
  End  of FastScripts…  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT