SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 2, 2016
Matt Insell
Bretta Hart
Shandricka Sessom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Vanderbilt - 74   
Ole Miss - 59   
THE MODERATOR: We are joined by Ole Miss.   
Coach, your thoughts on today's game against Vanderbilt.   
COACH INSELL: It's just kind of who we are offensively.  We've been this way all year where we've got to do a lot of soul searching on figuring out why our shooting percentages have been so bad.  It kind of hits you in the first quarter, you can't get a shot to go.   
True credit to Vanderbilt, they had a great game plan, played really well.  Took us out of things we were successful with them the first time.   
Once they got up, we had to play a little wild, start trapping, force turnovers.  That's what you got to do when you get down.   
All credit to Vanderbilt.  All in all for us this year, young basketball team.  We obviously didn't meet our own expectations on what we thought we could be.  We'll go back to work next week and get better on that.   
THE MODERATOR: We'll take questions.   
 Q.  Coach, is the consolation there was still a lot of fight left in this team in the second half?  
COACH INSELL: That's kind of who we are this year.  We play real hard.  As I told them at halftime, obviously I care a lot about winning and losing, but no matter what, you better keep playing.  They did that in the second half.  I was real proud of them.   
I think we got it to 13 at one time midway through the third quarter or so.  Had a chance, but couldn't get the stops we needed to get.   
Real proud of how hard they kept playing.  The players that played in the second half played with a lot of energy, played with a lot of enthusiasm, played with a lot of pride.   
We'll go back and figure out what happened here and we'll get better.   
 Q.  Coach, talk about going back to the first quarter, Christa Reed from Vanderbilt put up 14 points.  Why was she so difficult to cover?  
COACH INSELL: We didn't get matched up.  I don't really want to talk about why we didn't get matched up.   
We had four players matched up and one player not matched up.  For some reason, it was Christa Reed that we didn't get matched up on.  I don't understand how that happened.  We'll have to go back and watch the film, figure that out.   
Christa is a great player.  We recruited her real hard to get her to Ole Miss.  She went to Vanderbilt.  She's a great player, great family, played high school ball with Bretta.  Obviously she was motivated because she got beat by Ole Miss last time.  She wanted to get a win.  She played a great game.   
She got them going.  That's what a great player does, get them going offensively.  They fed off of her energy and shooting ability.   
 Q.  Can you talk about the adjustments Jonell Williams had to make as a freshman and what she needs to do going forward?  
COACH INSELL: Her biggest adjustment is she worked really hard this summer on changing her body a little bit, getting stronger.  She's done a good job of that.  The biggest thing for her is she's got to continue working at the little things in the game.  She's made a lot of strides with her ability of playing the game in terms of her footwork, her moves around the basket.   
The one thing we'll focus on as we move forward is to continue to help her skill.  She's got to continue to learn how to play in the low block.  In high school she drifted out, shot shots around the perimeter, things like that.  We're working really hard every day working on her skill around the basket.   
She moves exceptionally well for her size.  She has a chance to be really good.  She played at a high school that's obviously kind of a smaller school, now you're playing in the SEC.  It becomes pretty tough.  That happens with freshmen.   
Shandricka averaged 16, 17 points a game this year and only played 13 minutes a game last year.  She got in the gym and worked really hard at it.  That's what I expect from Jonell, continue to work, continue to get herself in great condition, shape, work on her skill, she'll be fine.   
Great kid, though.  Really, really good kid.  Great family.   
 Q.  For the players, what is the difference between Vanderbilt today and the Vanderbilt team you beat?  
UNIDENTIFIEDSPEAKER: They came out more aggressive this time.  The first time we was able to get in them.  This time was totally different.   
UNIDENTIFIEDSPEAKER: I think being that we beat them last time they really came out motivated and ready for us this time, so...  I think that's what it was.   
 Q.  Are they doing anything better right now than they might have then?  
UNIDENTIFIEDSPEAKER: Christa Reed was a real game changer.  She got off on us last game, but she was really on it this time.  Their shooting was better than it was the first game, too.   
COACH INSELL: They were executing a lot better.  The first time we played them, we were able to disrupt them a lot defensively.  They did not handle pressure well back in January.   
I've watched a lot of film on them over the last month.  We're getting ready to play this game, they're starting to handle pressure a lot better.  I think Melanie has figured her team out a little more.  She's playing some different combinations.  She's putting Batey up there running the point, playing her at the four.  Initiating the offense which relieves a lot of pressure off their guards, because they struggled at the point guard position in terms of handling ball pressure.   
They've done a great job of execution, getting in their offenses.  That's a big reason why they've played better as of late.   
I don't know much more about it than that, but I think they're executing a lot better.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT