U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2016
Dylan Meyer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DYLAN MEYER: We had a good time at the Western, and I think it's nice.  It's going to be fun.  You know, I saw he played fairly well and I played good, too, so I think it'll be a fun one.
Q. Sam got up early last week, maybe won the first two holes or two of the first three.  How were you able to rally back, and I don't think he lost a hole after like the seventh hole or something like that?
DYLAN MEYER: Just playing the strategy.  Just keep playing the way I play, fairways and greens.  Let him make the mistakes, and I shouldn't have to force anything.  If I have 20-footers, I'm bound to make one or two in the round, so if I just keep lag putting my golf ball like I did at the Western, I think this afternoon is going to go my way.
Q. How did you play today?
DYLAN MEYER: I played fairly well.  I wish I would strike it a little better.  This entire week I haven't been hitting the ball good like I did at the Western.  It was just short game everywhere.  On this golf course I've putted good, but my striking is coming along, and it's going to get better and better as each day goes by.
Q. Tell us about the eagle at 2.  Was that conceded?
DYLAN MEYER: No.  I hit a driver in the fairway and then I hit 3-wood onto the front of the green and I made about a 45-footer.
Q. How long was your 3-wood?  What was your distance?
DYLAN MEYER: Probably about 245 flag.
Q. And then you made birdies at 3 and 5 and you jumped on him?
DYLAN MEYER: Yeah, I did.  It was good to get on that head start and that good feeling that I had going.  I was just rolling my putter really good and just sticking to my game plan.  Like I said, that's just all I can do.
Q. Do you feel like this course gives you -- obviously you beat Sam last week, but do you feel like this course is worse or better for you against a player like Sam compared to the Western?
DYLAN MEYER: You know, I don't think any course gives you an advantage or a disadvantage.  I mean, if you have the right strategy and you know your golf game, I don't think any course is going to give you a problem, because this is like one of the longest courses we would play.  If we get a short course and the long course strategy stays the same, just keep picking it apart.
Q. How much do you hit it off the tee?
DYLAN MEYER: About 290, 280, somewhere in there.
Q. And Sam is about how much?
DYLAN MEYER: He probably hits it about 310, 315, right around there probably.
Q. Do you like being able to hit that second shot first and put the pressure on?
DYLAN MEYER: Yeah, yeah, it's definitely an advantage.  I hit my long irons fairly well.  I hit my hybrids pretty good.  I can put it to about 20 feet and then give myself a good two-putt.  But he hits a lot of good shots.  I mean, he's the No. 1 player in the country for a reason, unless he's the second.  I guess Maverick is No. 1.  But he's playing like the No. 1 recently.  Like I said, you've just got to stick with strategy and make him make the birdies.
Q. How big was playing Wise?
DYLAN MEYER: It was the semis.
Q. How much did that do for your confidence, being on TV, being able to chip in like that?  Obviously you didn't get to finish the match because the thing was over, but how big was that for you?
DYLAN MEYER: You know, previously I didn't play match play very well.  I just didn't stick to strategy and always tried to do too much.  Afterward Coach said, just trust me, stick to the strategy and just play the way we picked it out, and I did that, and I ended up being 1-up going into 18.  It was crazy that he was right.  He's always right.  It was a big boost of confidence knowing that I can pick apart a golf course and frustrate these guys I'm playing against because I hit it 290 and then hit a 3-iron to 20 feet.
Q. With the overnight rain how was it playing this morning?
DYLAN MEYER: It was playing fairly long.  They moved a couple of the par-3s up, which kind of sucks.  I wanted them to be a little longer.  That sounds kind of weird.  Everyone else wants it to be shorter, but I'd rather see them push it back to that 250 number and make it really interesting for this afternoon.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT