U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2016
Dylan Meyer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  19 holes it took to win over Sam Horsfield.  You did it with par after par.  You hit fairway after fairway with all the pressure today, how did you stay so consistent?  
DYLAN MEYER: You know, I just stuck to strategy.  That's what we work on at school up at Illinois.  Coach Small preaches upon that, if you just stick to your strategy, you know your game, you're going to do pretty well.   
 Q.  We were really impressed with your strategy on the greens today, just your ability to make putts when they counted, especially on 18 to extend the match.  What was going through your head?  
DYLAN MEYER: I own eight-footers and own 10-footers.  I mean, that's what we do.  We had to extend the match.  I'm not ready to go home yet.  I want to stay here until Sunday.   
 Q.  In the heat of competition on hole No. 17 you and Sam were talking with each other, laughing with each other.  What could you possibly be saying at this point with all this pressure?  
DYLAN MEYER: Oh, we were just talking.  Me and him are pretty good buddies.  Me and him casually talked back and forth.  It's always fun to play with him.  He's such a good guy.  He's a great golfer, so it's always good for me to be in that competition at that level.   
 Q.  Your father Darren is on the bag.  He's standing next to our interview tent and has a smile on his face that is 10 miles long right now.  How are you getting along out there?  
DYLAN MEYER: Oh, he's not on the bag.  I have my buddy from home Nate Phelps on the bag.  I know how he is whenever I'm getting ready to make a putt or have a putt to extend the match or win a match.  He's always nervous.  He's always happy, and especially my grandpa, too.   
 Q.  You hit it a little bit shorter than other players, and this was a question I wanted to ask just for everybody up in the booth.  What are some of the irons or the hybrids that you have most into the greens this week?  It's a longer course.  
DYLAN MEYER: You know, I have 4-iron, 3 hybrid, 2-hybrid.  I've grown up playing that, so it's just kind of standard for me.  Whenever I get on a short course, I'm actually kind of excited and don't know what to do, so I have to plan a new strategy.  But come out here to golf courses like this, Olympia Fields, Medinah, and these long golf courses that U.S. Opens are at, it's nice and it fits my game, which seems kind of backwards for how short I hit it.   
 Q.  What's the strategy for tomorrow?  
DYLAN MEYER: Keep doing what I'm doing and keep making putts.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT