U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2018
Dylan Meyer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You are here for the weekend.  Talk about today's round.
DYLAN MEYER: I knew it had to be a fight.  I was pretty pleased with what I did.  I kept it in front of me.  Yesterday I wasn't mentally strong and today I needed to be mentally strong, confident swings, no matter what the result was and I executed that plan and now I am going into the weekend.
Q. The pressure of the U.S. Open is enough to rattle the veterans.  You have seen a lot of the top players in the world go home.  You are here this weekend.  Talk about that what means to you.  Has it sunk in?
DYLAN MEYER: It means a lot.  It shows that I can play with the best in the world.  I'm ready to be here and compete.  It's not going to be a tough transition time.  I can play good golf and I exhibited that today in one of the toughest conditions, toughest possible tournaments that professional golf has to offer.
Q. The early guys had rain, they had wind.  You get out this afternoon, conditions were better.  How important was that to what you were able to accomplish today?
DYLAN MEYER: It was pretty important.  Those guys started to fall back.  They had some bad conditions, like you said.  They were making some bogeys.
This afternoon it got sunny and I was able to hit the shots I wanted to hit.  The players can come back in the morning as much as they want, but you have to be able to produce the score at the end of the day.
Q. The weekend awaits.  What strategy do you have in mind?  What do you want to do to move up the leaderboard?
DYLAN MEYER: Just keep playing well, keep playing confident and solid golf.  Stick to a game plan and don't be mentally weak.  If you are mentally weak, this place is going to hurt you a lot.  Today I played strong confident golf, like I said.
Q. What are the keys to doing that here at Shinnecock?
DYLAN MEYER: Just taking one shot at a time.  You can't get too far ahead of yourself.  Every hole is its own challenge.  Every shot is its own challenge.  You have to take each and every one on their own and you can't get too far ahead of yourself.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT