U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 19, 2016
Dylan Meyer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Through nine holes of your match today against Nick Carlson, how do you stay patient now?
DYLAN MEYER: You just sit there and you watch the weather, see what it's going to do and kind of de express and get refocused when we go back out there.  You can't stay focused during this entire rain delay, because it's going to be about five hours, six hours of straight focus, so you have to find something to regroup yourself and get back after it.
Q. What is that; you said you have to find something to regroup with.  How do you stay focused for six hours?  To us, you're still a kid, staying focused for six hours is difficult?
DYLAN MEYER: Being a college student, we kind of have to do that.  We have to focus all the time in school and class, and definitely being a student athlete, we take a lot of time and there's a lot of time management we have to do.  I think focusing on the classroom and going to practice and focusing, qualifying, and everything, is just a constant focus state with us.
During this time, like I said, I'm just not going to focus on anything.  Just sit and enjoy myself.
Q. Mike Small, your coach, at Illinois would be very proud of that statement you just made.  Two weeks ago, you said you really weren't a great match-play player until you won the Western Amateur, which is one of the biggest amateur events of the season.  This is the other one.  What has changed in two weeks?
DYLAN MEYER: I just took a different mind-set.  I decided to tell myself, I'm not a mad match-play player.  I just went in there with a different attitude, stuck to my strategy and tried not to overpower a golf course because I can't.  I just knew that I have to chip-and-putt my golf ball around the golf course.
Q. Today you're playing Nick Carlson from the University of Michigan, a home crowd kid.  His family and friends are out here watching him.  The cheers, when he makes birdie are a little bit or a lot louder than for you today.  How do you deal with that?
DYLAN MEYER: That's okay.  I dealt with that in Oregon, and the NCAAs.  Those or he gone fans were unbelievable.  It was like a football crowd rather than a golf crowd.  I'm used to it.  I feed off that.  I think it's cool.  It's kind of a Big Ten rivalry between us and Michigan.  There's definitely some school backing to this.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT