ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
March 2, 2020
Shashikala Siriwardene
Chamari Athapaththu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Sri Lanka - 92/1, Bangladesh - 91/8   
 Q.  How do you assess the tournament as a whole I suppose now that it's done?  
CHAMARI ATHAPATHTHU: Actually I'm really happy about our performance today. Unfortunately we lost three games, two close games, especially the New Zealand game and the Australia game. We had a good chance to win the games, but unfortunately we dropped a couple of catches. That's why we lost those two games.   
We learned a lot of things in this T20 World Cup. We learned a lot of positive things, so we carry those positives in future games.   
 Q.  Is there a sense of frustration that how close you were in both those games? This could very easily could be very different discussion; you could be on your way to the semifinals?  
CHAMARI ATHAPATHTHU: Yeah, definitely, if you drop a couple of catches, that's why we lost the two games. Otherwise if we had taken those catches we could go to the semifinals. We had come in with a lot of hopes. We try our best. We back up with our skills and we played good positive cricket, but unfortunately we dropped a lot of catches. That's why we missed the semifinals.   
 Q.  Is that something going forward that is going to be real focus on improving, that fielding?  
CHAMARI ATHAPATHTHU: Actually the ground fielding is good but the big thing is catches. Main thing I've seen a lot of teams drop a lot of catches, in the World Cup under the lights. As a team we have to improve in that area.   
 Q.  What does it mean to go out of the tournament on a high on what is an emotional day?  
SHASHIKALA SIRIWARDENE: It's very hard. From the beginning of the day, I knew that I'm playing the last match. And also it's very important for us to qualify for the next World Cup and to mark a victory. We can't go without a win as we came here we all had hopes with the skill that we have the potential that we should be the top four.   
So with those things it was really frustrating but we can't take emotions to the field when we play. So, just kept the nerve and asked the girls to play for the country and make sure that we win today. So, we talked with each other, we had some meetings. We became positive and hopefully, I think we did well.   
CHAMARI ATHAPATHTHU: Yeah, and definitely, especially Shashikala is the number one all-rounder in our team and in the world. So she knows how to handle the pressure. We know that it's a big match for us, but she helped me a lot for my cricket carry and today also. Especially she took a lot of advantage for the youngsters and me, myself also. She's brilliant, so she knows how to handle the pressure. So I know definitely we won this game. So, I trust my bowlers and batters and especially Shashikala.   
 Q.  Shashikala, how were you feeling before today's game? Were you sad, nervous, excited?  
SHASHIKALA SIRIWARDENE: I was kind of nervous, thoughts in my mind when I got up and thinking that I'm wearing national colours for the last time, representing my country. It was pretty emotional.   
But I was telling myself that this is not the time to get emotional. It's very important to win this match and my contribution is very important. So I left all the thoughts behind and just played that I'm not retiring. That's what I was thinking that until this match ends. I'm not thinking about my retirement. So that is how I could make my mind to play this game.   
 Q.  Congratulations on the career-best figures. Would you put that as one of the highlights of your career so far?  
SHASHIKALA SIRIWARDENE: Yes, I really love to perform, but when the team wins it's really important. It gives more satisfaction when I perform and the team is winning. That's the main thing for me and I know for everybody on the team.   
Yeah, it's a big highlight for me, finishing on a good note, finishing with a high note. And when the team needed, I'm truly satisfied that I think that I did something for the country every time when the team needs me.   
 Q.  Chamari, would you be able to describe the contribution your teammate has made over the last 17 years?  
CHAMARI ATHAPATHTHU: Actually, she's our big sister on my team. She helped a lot for me and especially our youngsters and seniors also. A very big loss for our team. Actually she's a legend. We call her the legend. And today she retired as a champion. So, I'm really proud of her, and I wish her all the best for her the rest of her life and her future.   
 Q.  Shashikala, I wish this wasn't a talking point but one of the realities is in Asia a lot of women don't get support for something like sport after marriage. And that's something that's part of your journey. Did you ever see yourself as someone who has to also put that kind of an example for women? And were those conversations you ever had within your family?  
SHASHIKALA SIRIWARDENE: Yeah, as any other Asian woman, I also thought that when I got married I had to stop cricket and get committed to family life. I didn't discuss about that when I got married in 2013. I just married and I just said to him that I think I should stop playing now after marriage.   
At that time we did well in the World Cup in 2013 in India. And he was saying that why would I want quit, why do you want to stop playing good cricket that you are playing, quality cricket you are playing now. Why you want to quit? So I was surprised.   
I don't know now, we're married now. I think I should stop. He said, no, every woman, every woman does not get this chance, this opportunity to represent the country and doing well. He just advised me -- he also has played cricket and he's a coach at the moment. So he told me just think that if you're performing well, if your country needs you and this is a big thing, big stage for a woman to be. So he said you know how hard to be in the national team and represent the country. So he just asked me just focus on your fitness and performance until you perform you can continue cricket. He never pressured me for anything.   
This decision is purely taken by me. I played eight years after marriage. I think every woman needs that kind of encouragement from their families especially after marriage. And women can complete their dreams too.   
 Q.  Much of your career has been beyond the media coverage. Is that something that pains you looking back at how Sri Lanka cricket has changed over the years? And what are the changes that you personally would love to see come about in the near future so that young talents, whom you've named in the recent past could do well for the country, get the opportunities that you did not get in all these 17 years?  
SHASHIKALA SIRIWARDENE: When we started playing cricket, we only had four clubs. Few players were involved this. At that time seniors developed some commitment and they had the passion for playing for their country, without gaining anything. The seniors just wanted to represent the country, wear the jersey.   
So those are the points and the things I saw when I came to the national team. But in 2006, after engaging with Sri Lanka cricket, the women's cricket and ICC, lots of improvement happened. Financial security was there and especially with the concept of the ICC Women's Championship, it really helped us to play against very good teams.   
Otherwise we were playing like No. 8, 7, 9, 10. So it didn't help us to improve ourselves at all. So after the concept of playing matches with each and every team it helped to know where we stand and how to improve. It helped us play well at this moment. I think we've been competitive in other tournaments.   
So it's a fact that it's always good to play with good countries to improve. I think that is what should happen in the future. Also all the teams should get the chance of playing more and more matches with good quality teams.   
 Q.  You spoke about how your team has supported you through your multiple injuries. Could you talk about the timeline of those injuries and what have been the major setbacks through these 17 years?  
SHASHIKALA SIRIWARDENE: I had minor injuries, like any other sports person, like finger and muscle pains and all. But majorly, in 2015 I had an operation in my finger, between my fingers. It's a bone operation. And then in 2016 I had separation of hamstring in T20 World Cup warm-up matches. It was disattached totally.   
When I recovered from that I met with an accident. I had to do reconstruction of my right knee, ACL. Then it was infected. For 45 to 50 days I had to be in the hospital. They couldn't find the name of the bacteria or the germ. So I had to come to India.   
Then from that Dr. Pardiwala helped me to recovery with both operations. And because of him I think I could play again for the country.   
With all these things, my physio -- I had lots of physios in the team and outside, but especially (indiscernible), she was the one who was motivating me, because there were times I wanted to stop because these are all happening one after one. So it wasn't easy.   
But she was always believing that if I become committed, I can play again. So that's what I've been doing with the help of physios, doctors, trainers. And with that I must say coaches and captain -- I have played matches without being full, 100 percent fit. Because of my experience and knowledge they always gave me a chance. They just asked my team players to let me field where I'm comfortable, without any hardworking places. They really helped me, all the players. Like if there's a hard position to field, they never keep me there. They help me to be behind the crease. They've been helping me since 2015, '16.   
And it really encouraged me that I felt that they need me even when I'm injured sometimes, that's the most important thing which helped me motivate myself to practise, do rehabilitation, go to the gym.   
I think recently, it's more than batting and bowling, I've done rehabilitations and gym sessions, running sessions. So it's not that easy doing those things without doing skill work. But they always believed me, if I be fit with those things I will perform in the middle.   
So it really helped me, the team players and officials and the coaches, captain; they've been keep supporting me with these injuries.   
 Q.  What is the one thing you won't miss?  
SHASHIKALA SIRIWARDENE: What is the one thing that I will not miss? Are you asking what will I miss or --   
 Q.  What will you miss and what will you not miss.  
SHASHIKALA SIRIWARDENE: Definitely I'll miss being with these girls. It's almost 17 years that I've been with them more than my family. It's a fact that I have spent my life, 70 percent, 75 percent with these girls and the team. So I will not get that time again.   
So that's the most sad part of my retirement and representing the countries, we couldn't compare it to anything else. So those two things are definitely remembered forever for me.   
 Q.  What will you not miss?  
SHASHIKALA SIRIWARDENE: I think I will not miss cricket -- I mean, I'll be involved because I can't stay away from this. And somehow I'll be involved with cricket.   
 Q.  Both of you, what happened in the dressing room? We saw outside there was a very emotional moment before leaving the field, came into the dressing room, I'm sure something like that would have happened. Please tell us about that.  
CHAMARI ATHAPATHTHU: I think we will miss this time. So as a captain, it's a big loss in the team. So a lot of youngsters, they will miss their big sister. Hopefully she will join the team, maybe like a mentor. That's very good for us. Hopefully she will join again our team.   
 Q.  Talk about three of your most memorable moments of your career.  
SHASHIKALA SIRIWARDENE: One is that tournament we played in 2013 in India, the first time we could beat England and India. As a player, as a captain, it's a huge moment for us. It really changed the way the people see where the people think of women's cricket in Sri Lanka.   
I think it's the best memorable moment for me. And also I had a dream of playing in Lord's. When I was a kid I always wanted to play there. And the dream came true in 2014 when I represent the World XI, the hundredth anniversary of Lord's Cricket Grounds. At that time and being number one T20 all-rounder for Sri Lanka, that's the first time that a Sri Lanka women's cricket has been in the first number one position in any kind of world rankings in cricket. So those three moments I will definitely cherish my entire life in my future.   
 Q.  The Indian captain gave you her jersey. And some players were there to present you with the jersey. What does this tell you about the camaraderie you've shared with so many opponents over the years and your message to cricket, not just women's cricket, as far as the way you've carried yourself out is concerned, the way you've conducted yourself through these 17 years?  
SHASHIKALA SIRIWARDENE: I was really surprised when I saw three of them in front of my door in the hotel room. Very nice players -- Mandhana, Jamie Rand, Shikah Pandey. I was really surprised. And it was a lovely surprise. And I invited them, and they just said they were waiting in the lobby, that when I come there, that they can present it in front of the team.   
But I had no plans to go down for breakfast. So they just came and they just congratulated for my country. And they said that they want to present the jersey to me. And it was written something that they always appreciate my work and all that.   
So it was a best moment in my life in my career that we have played lots of matches with each other, we've been really competitive on the field. But starting from Mithali Raj, all Asian teams, especially Asian teams, we've been sharing our knowledge. Even though we're competitive in the middle of the field, we are really good friends.   
And that spirit is a very good thing for sports. So that is what has been happening. And lots of players and fans have been messaging me through lots of, like, Facebook Messenger, WhatsApp, Instagram. I must thank them also at this moment, especially international players, they always have been with me and very friendly with me. So I think I'm really happy to have those kinds of friendships with all those players.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT