ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
November 3, 2018
Chamari Athapaththu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How does it feel to be back at the standalone Women's Twenty20?  
CHAMARI ATHAPATHTHU: I think it is really good because the last couple of years, a couple of times we played double headers, so this time playing only Women's T20 World Cup is a good opportunity for the women's cricketers, so worldwide people can see our talents.  So I think it's a good opportunity for female cricketers and for women's cricket, really good.   
 Q.  The last couple of years (indiscernible) do you think now women's cricket is the most competitive it's ever been?  
CHAMARI ATHAPATHTHU: Definitely because a couple of years ago, we played only bottom teams.   Now we're playing the top teams because of the ICC championships, so now cricket has become top level, and now we're playing against Australia and New Zealand and England, top countries.  So last time India came to the finals, and West Indies won, which is good for women's cricket.  Also I think the ICC is doing a good job for women's cricket.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) what have you learned from those series?  
CHAMARI ATHAPATHTHU: We know India is a good team in women's cricket.  They played competitive cricket last time against us.  We won the series and we learned a lot of things.  We know they are a good team, but we're playing our best cricket in our home conditions.   
So actually I'm really happy about our batting lineup now, new coach, doing a really good job for our team, and a couple of youngsters playing really good, and senior players also doing good.   
I think this is a good opportunity for our team to come with the best ranking this time, so I think our team is definitely doing good in T20.   
 Q.  We saw a lot of sixes being hit by batters.  Is power hitting something that you practice?  
CHAMARI ATHAPATHTHU: Yeah, we practice more probably in these areas.  I think the main thing is our coach, he's doing really good job for our team.  We practice the power hitting areas.   
 Q.  Talk about the conditions.  
CHAMARI ATHAPATHTHU: Yeah, actually I think we have good spinners, so this condition is good for spin.  So I think this condition is really good and similar to our home conditions.   
 Q.  You've had the opportunity to take part in (indiscernible) what have you taken from that, and how does that make you a better player, and what have you told your team about playing around the world?  
CHAMARI ATHAPATHTHU: After the '15 World Cup I played two championships, KSL and one time in Big Bash, so I learned a lot of things because I'm playing with the good players.  I get good experience for me, and I keep my experience for our teammates.  Let's see what we can do this World Cup.   
 Q.  You got a 100 in the '15 World Cup.  Have you had any thoughts of a 100 in a T20 world championship?  
CHAMARI ATHAPATHTHU: Yeah, actually I really like the T20 format, but I score 117, 50 overs.  I try to play my normal game in this -- I have a lot of big targets, but just play my normal game, and if it's going to 100, let's see what we can do.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
CHAMARI ATHAPATHTHU: Oh, it's really nice.  A few times I sing that song, it's really good.  I really like that song.   
 Q.  I know Sri Lanka has been to the West Indies a few times.  You know a few things about the conditions here.  What are you thinking in terms of the pitches here and the overall tournament?  
CHAMARI ATHAPATHTHU: Oh, it was back in the T20, I played -- scored like 120, 130 is a good score, but now we're playing like Big Bash, Kia Super League, so I think 150, 160 is the score for winning.   
 Q.  Have you been preparing to use the DRS system?  
CHAMARI ATHAPATHTHU: Yeah, definitely.  We're prepared for the DRS, and that is good for -- sometimes we see in the men's game they're using that, but the first time we are using the DRS system.  So I think it's really good for the women's game and a step up to put us parallel to men's cricket.   
 Q.  What is one thing that you're looking forward to most to doing or seeing here in the West Indies?  
CHAMARI ATHAPATHTHU: Yeah, actually I like this country's people.  They always enjoy their life.  That's the main thing I've seen.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT