VIVENDI CUP 2010
September 24, 2010
Julien Guerrier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. A good second round on the back of that fine round on the first day. 
 JULIEN GUERRIER: Yeah, it's a good second round. At this stage, that's good. Now I'm really happy about this day, and now I hope I will do a good weekend.

 Q. Standing here sheltering from the rain, I take it that made a big difference, the heavy overnight rain that we had?
 JULIEN GUERRIER: If it's still like this, yes. But I think it's a bit shower, and I hope that it's going to be fair for everybody. 

 Q. For you going into the second round going after all of the rain overnight, that made the courses play that much harder today?
 JULIEN GUERRIER: Yeah, it was a little bit harder because the course was a bit wet, so the ball was spinning a lot and that makes a difference.

 Q. But you were on a different course; could you tell that much difference in club selection and what you were having to choose and how fast the putts were and that sort of thing? 
 JULIEN GUERRIER: Yeah, yeah, because we have some slope sometimes with the pin positions and we have to be careful of the spin and sometimes like on 14, I make a birdie because I took a 52 from 75 metres and normally it's 58. My caddie, he told me, just put a wedge to the green and I did, and I hit a good shot. 

 Q. Over these first two days, it's been relatively quiet here, but are you enjoying the support as the man at home?
 JULIEN GUERRIER: Yeah, it's really nice to play here. It's my first time on the course but it's a good dimension because we don't have a lot of Pro-Am, and the access is not like in the French Open but it's still good seeing more and more events here on The European Tour.

 Q. Do you feel a difference when you're playing an event in Portugal or Italy or someplace else? 
 JULIEN GUERRIER: It's different because you have all your friends here and you know a lot of people, and you want to focus. You just want to be friendly and not a bad person, so I just have to be polite but stay and focus on your game. That's difficult to do. 

 Q. The focus has to be there at the weekend, but presumably there will be a lot more people anticipating something good from you? 
 JULIEN GUERRIER: Mm-hmm, I don't know, but I hope I will do a good weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT