MLS CUP: FC DALLAS v COLORADO
November 21, 2010
Schellas Hyndman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   COACH SCHELLAS HYNDMAN: If it wasn't for the characters like Daniel Hernandez.  
  
  Q. For most of the season you guys have been known as a positive-attacking team and something seemed different tonight do you mostly attribute that to what the Rapids put on you? Was it nerves?   
 COACH SCHELLAS HYNDMAN: No, I don't think it was nerves, I think both teams settled in 10 minutes into the game and I don't think it was pressure; it was physical play and the thing with physical play is it's disruptive, so how often do you connect passes and if that was their game plan, it was perfect. If it wasn't their game plan, I would rather play like the way we play.   
  
  Q. What's next for the club?   
 COACH SCHELLAS HYNDMAN: Next for the club, as you know, there are two teams coming in with the expansion draft and the teams who do very well who get to this stage by tomorrow. I think by 1:00 we have to give our protective lists. So we've been working on that, and I mean it's disheartening right now.   
 We can't enjoy this event; we've got to go back out and protect 11 players, so the timing -- it's a double-edged sword. You want to be here but you would like to give it more time than we have. We will put our lists out, and we'll have talks with players about their futures, and then we will then take a break and during that break we'll try to recover and maybe at some point in time celebrate the great season we've had.   
  
  Q. Coach, both of you talked about how big a championship would be for Dallas and the soccer scene there. Is this enough to move things in the right direction?   
 COACH SCHELLAS HYNDMAN: I don't think it's ever enough till you win, for Dallas. Dallas is a win-win city. I think we've come a long way, and it's -- it's the owners who have invested into the team, and stuck with the team, it's the coaching staff, it's the players, but it's our fans, but, you know, it's interesting, because I said to my wife as I walked out the door to the game, I said "We're going to win this game for Dallas," that was my first thought, because I think Dallas deserves this.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you to our guests and congratulations on a great season.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT