NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BRUINS v PENGUINS
June 4, 2013
Jarome Iginla
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Is there anything at all to build on from the first two games?   I guess Game 1 wasn't as bad as Game 2.   
JAROME IGINLA:   No, I mean, Game 1, it was probably our last‑‑ I said yesterday, our last four periods were just not‑‑ out of the style we want to play and out of our‑‑ we didn't look‑‑ we weren't moving as well as we could or making decisions, the right decisions.   In stretches we've played like this before.   Everybody has that game.   It's just right now it's not the time, right, so we need to just get our focus back on the right things, and we have some different things that we're going to focus on and just all of us to a man know that we do need to be better and find a way just to win one game, just to get that spark and that momentum going back in our direction, and we'll start with one.   
   
 Q.   How did you gauge the mood in the room today?   It seemed kind of subdued on the ice, but what was it like in here?  
JAROME IGINLA:   Oh, yeah, I mean, nobody is happy with where we're at or the way we played last night, so there's‑‑ we came in and it's back to work.   Nobody here‑‑ everybody believes that we can win this series and get better.   But that's‑‑ now it's just starting with the one game and winning that next game, and like I say, getting that momentum back and getting a spark and going in the right direction and guys‑‑ everybody‑‑ there's no question that we all need to play better.  
   
 Q.   When you looked at the tape, what did you guys look at and focus on in video study today that you want to change going into tomorrow?   
JAROME IGINLA:   Well, I think we got just away from a lot of our game.   We got‑‑ we got out‑competed.   There's no question that especially last game we weren't very good, and you name the area, we weren't very good.   It's not any one thing, it's just getting‑‑ we have some different things we want to focus on and improve on, but really it's just about getting that first period, just coming out and finding a way at all costs to win that next game.   
   
 Q.   Is it difficult when you get down in the first 30 seconds of the game?   I know Tomas said it shouldn't but it kind of did.   
JAROME IGINLA:   Yeah, it really shouldn't.   We at different times in the year, we've come back from those type of situations, and that's not‑‑ there's so much time left in the game to have that not be a difference.   I think it's more that we just weren't on our game for the whole game, and they've played well, they played well yesterday, and we didn't counter that.   Whether that was the first 30, whether it was five minutes in, 10 minutes in, we weren't good enough yesterday.   
Our goal is and our‑‑ we're back at it today.   We have some different things to go over, and we know all the things we go over, the biggest thing we do need to bring is we need to find a way to bring our competition level up and that fire and confidence that we have.   We do believe that we're going to find a way to win the series, but it's all about the next game.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel you've become too individual, that there's so much talent (inaudible) got away from you?  
JAROME IGINLA:   I think that's probably fair to say.   I think every part of our game last game just wasn't where it needs to be.   I mean, every team remaining right now is a very good team.   We did get off of what we want to do, but now it's, like I said, we came today, nobody feels good about the way we played or where we're at, but we do feel we can get out of it, and it's back to work.   We do need to be quicker, work harder, compete.   Everyone wants to play very hard, and we do, too, we just unfortunately we didn't play at the same level last night.   
   
 Q.   There's always pressure on the top six guys, but how much pressure is there on you guys scoring in this series?  
JAROME IGINLA:   Well, that's something that whenever, I guess, we've gotten, what, one goal in two games, but that's not our focus, and really for the whole year, but since I've been here, the focus hasn't been about scoring goals and stuff.   That will come naturally when we do the other things.   We have a lot of talent in here, and it's really the whole year we've talked about that, is that the focus is different things and trying to do other things right and not think about the goals.   We'll find them and we have, we've been a very high‑scoring team, and we'll find a way to do that, but it's the things leading up to it first.  
   
 Q.   How do you counter the frustration of not being able to play the game that you guys are naturally great at?  
JAROME IGINLA:   I think we can play the game, we just haven't.   Give some credit to Boston, they've played well, and they're up 2‑0.   But it's that same line where it's‑‑ we haven't played the same.   We haven't played with making the same execution and the same speed, and part of that is Boston playing very well, but part of that, we know we look at ourselves that we can be better, and they haven't seen our best yet.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT