NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: FLAMES v LIGHTNING
June 5, 2004
Jarome Iginla
Steve Montador
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  What is the feeling tonight now, Steve? 
 STEVE MONTADOR: It's one game to win the Stanley Cup.  We would have accepted at any point during the season so we're going to go down there, prepare to win a hockey game. 
 Q.  Did you get a look at the goal that Gelinas  -- 
 STEVE MONTADOR: No, I didn't. 
 Q.  What is it like one game for all the marbles? 
 STEVE MONTADOR: It's hockey at it best, I think.  It's just like overtime in the Playoffs.  I think it's awesome.  I think it's great. 
 Q.  Is it easier going  -- obviously you didn't want to lose this game, but is it easier going in there having lost in overtime say being blown out 5-1 or something like that? 
 STEVE MONTADOR: No it's just one game to win the Stanley Cup I said.  I don't think it's any different how this game  -- it's over, it's done.  Nothing we can do.  Now we're going to go and win Game 7. 
 Q.  (Inaudible)? 
 STEVE MONTADOR: It's very obvious, all throughout the Playoffs we have lost games.  We haven't had a perfect record, nobody has, and to my knowledge anyway, yeah, it's just another game that we have to win.  That's our goal. 
 Q.  What emotional ride? 
 STEVE MONTADOR: Yeah, sure, it's fun.  It's very exciting.  You can't dwell on any downs, there's no time, too fine of a line winning and losing to dwell on anything.  So like I said what we're going to prepare for is going down there to win Game 7 
 Q.  (Inaudible)? 
 JAROME IGINLA: I didn't see it.  It went pretty quick. 
 Q.  It looked like a goal to me? 
 JAROME IGINLA: I didn't see it.  That would be unfortunate if that was the case.  From our point of view we have been in this situation before and now it's about next time and next game. 
 Q.  You guys looked like you had your chances.  What was the difference? 
 JAROME IGINLA: There was chances both ways.  There was a lot of lines really going, and Clarkey and Nieminen and Saprykin seemed like they had a chance every shift with Nilson.  Unfortunately it didn't go in, but there were chances both ways and Kipper played great.  It's something that we look at it and it's tough. 
 We wanted to obviously win the Stanley Cup tonight.  That's not the case.  Now we regroup.  We learned from past situations haven't made it easy on ourselves all year.  You got to give Tampa credit; they found a way to win a close one tonight.  Now we go in Game 7. 
 Q.  It's not easy to win Cup? 
 JAROME IGINLA:  No, it's not easy and it's not supposed to be easy.  This is tough stuff.  It's emotional and it's exciting.  It's Game 7 and a lot of us have played Game 7s in our mind growing up all the way in the Stanley Cup Final and now we get a chance to play it for real. 
 Q.  How do you like your chances? 
 JAROME IGINLA: We have been in this situation before.  I think we tied -- at least tied a road record:  We have been the best road team in the Playoffs so far, so it's going to be another good challenge for us. 
 We believe in ourselves in this room.  We have been up had a lot of tough games this season, this Playoffs.  Some tough losses.  We found a way to regroup and bounce back and we plan on doing that now. 
 Q.  A goal may have been scored in the third period; would that be disappointing? 
 JAROME IGINLA: I would be lying to say I won't be disappointed if that goal went in.  What can we do.  If that's the case it's unfortunate it got missed.  But from our point of view our mindset is totally on next game, getting some rest.  Regrouping and giving it absolutely everything we have in Game 7. 
 Q.  Talk about the overtime goal? 
 JAROME IGINLA: It was a little bit of a broken play.  It came up the wall.  I was trying to hold it there.  Si came by, grabbed it, looked like it would be all right, and he tripped up, looked like a pretty a shot from the point but we should  -- myself, should have helped get that out, but that wasn't the case.  It wasn't a pretty goal, but a lot of them aren't in OT, and we should have found a way  -- our line needs to be better.  There was a -- every other forward line was really going.  It was great to see.  They were flying; Oleg Saprykin, Nieminen, Nilson, Yelle, go right through the list, they were really going, and unfortunately our line wasn't as good alongside of them, but as a team, and as a line, we plan on regrouping. 
 Q.  You only had a couple of shots tonight.  Richards had a couple of goals.  Do you feel like their top guys have  -- 
 JAROME IGINLA: I don't know.  Their higher scores beat our higher scores.  I don't know if you call it top guys.  You look all the way through our lines and every line was going for us.  What a game Oleg Saprykin, Chuckie was battling, Nieminen.  What a play.  Chris Clark, Nilson they were going, and unfortunately our line wasn't as good as alongside of them.  We got outplayed by  -- in the OT the goal was against our line.  But that's past now in our mind.  It is.  We have been in this situation.  We haven't made it easy on ourselves as a group.  We have been a great road team this year.  It will be fitting to go in.  Unfortunately we wished it was tonight.  Now we're going to get ready and win a record game on the road. 
 Q.  Have you guys talked at all about that play mid-way through the third period where  -- looked like it might have been a goal; have you seen the replay? 
 JAROME IGINLA: Haven't seen the replay.  A lot of guys aren't really talking about it.  That would be unfortunate if that were the case.  That would be  -- but it's too bad if that was the case it was in.  Our mindset now is next game.  It really is.  Haven't made it easy on ourselves any time yet.  We have had this position.  We have won and lost games like this.  It was tough one.  Now we'll find a way to win another one. 
 Q.  Vancouver series comes to mind? 
 JAROME IGINLA: That was a very tough game on us.  To come back from 4-nothing then tie it up and losing in OT, we found way to win Game 7 there.  We're going to draw on that.  We have had tough games all year, some great wins, some tough losses, and that is one game.  This is Game 7 of the Stanley Cup Finals.  It's not supposed to be easy.  It's going to be very exciting. 
 Q.  Did you ask for a review by the way on that play? 
 JAROME IGINLA: No, to be honest, didn't.  It happened pretty quick and personally, even on the bench we didn't see that it was that close unfortunately. 
 Q.  You didn't even know if they went upstairs? 
 JAROME IGINLA: No idea. 
 Q.  Road record? 
 JAROME IGINLA: We're going to draw on everything positive.  I think we tied a record last game with that road win.  Now we have a chance to set a record and win a Stanley Cup.  We still believe in ourselves.  It been hard all year and it should be.  It's for quite a prize, so we're going to draw on everything positive and we believe we can go and win this game. 
 Q.  One game, it is what you dream about? 
 JAROME IGINLA: It's exciting, 7th game Stanley Cup Finals.  We have played a lot of these as kids growing up in the street, hockey in the outdoor rinks.  Now we're going to finally get to play in one, a lot of us for the first time. 
 Q.  (Inaudible)? 
 JAROME IGINLA: It was a broken play.  I, myself, and Si, we had it on the wall and unfortunately it didn't get out.  He made the most of it.  Pretty innocent-looking play.  He made the most of it.  He scored some big goals for them already in the Playoffs and some OT goals.  But it was broken play, a lot of the big goals aren't pretty.  He played well and obviously Richards played very well tonight too. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT