NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: FLAMES v LIGHTNING
May 26, 2004
Jarome Iginla
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Marty said last night, I believe you probably alluded it to a little bit, that Tampa sort of gave you a different look in the third.  A lot more speed, put a lot more pressure on you.  Do you guys feel, at least Martin was saying, that they might give you a different look? 
 JAROME IGINLA:  We were very aware of their speed.  We haven't seen a lot of them, only on TV and one game earlier in the year.  They can create a lot of offense.  They are a fast group.  They buzz around in the neutral zone and they make a lot of plays, a lot of nifty plays and get you back on your heels and the defensemen are always coming.  I think in the third period it was -- we also got ourselves in the power play trouble and they have a great power play.  And when they are on the skill that they have and them feeling good with the puck and stuff, if they are on the power play they are going to put us on our heels and they started to take some of that momentum.  So it's important we stay out of the box.  But we're aware of how fast they are and the chances that they can create and trying to shut them down. 
 Q.  Darryl just talked about how you have made a transformation this year from just a face of the team to the leader of the team and how you have embraced the captain C where a lot of people just wear a C; they are not really the captain.  Can you talk about that and what you have gone through. 
 JAROME IGINLA:  I mean it's been a big honor to be captain of the Calgary Flames and of a great organization like them.  And not only that, but of the group we have in our room.  I was asked earlier, you know, how has it been?  How has the transition been?  Has it been tough?  Have I felt more pressure?  No, it's been an exciting year.  It's been something that, thankfully, it's been up.  We have been in the Playoff spot pretty much the whole year.  You look at leaders that we have in our room, I mean Martin Gelinas, Dave Lowry, Craig Conroy, Rhett Warrener, been to the Finals.  This is his third time and knows about it.  There's so many guys that have helped me out in that area.  I ask them a lot.  I ask  -- you know, I don't  -- there's a lot to learn and these guys we also get a long very well.  There hasn't been any -- most teams do get a long well and most that I have been on, but I think this is exceptional.  You know, all the guys are pulling for each other trying to win, so it's been exciting to be captain of this group but also because of the group it's been, I think probably a lot easier than maybe it could have been. 
 Q.  You have taken Game 1 on the road before in the Playoffs.  How has the home team responded in Game 2 in a general sense, and how do you think the Lightning are going to respond as well? 
 JAROME IGINLA:  I think previous ones in Game 2 and as we expect it's going to be tougher.  The teams get more desperate.  Every game in the series as it goes on is even more important.  This is a huge game.  I mean, a chance to go up two and take two and for them, they realize the importance to have trying to make it 1-1.  We expect it to be a harder game.  For them to come out flying even more so than they did in the first, and we got to match their intensity and their desperation.  We got up 2-0 against San Jose and we didn't match their desperation when we came back home.  So that's going to be very important for us in this game coming up. 
 Q.  Your line has been great since the start of the playoffs.  Can you talk a little lit about Gelinas and Conroy, the chemistry among you? 
 JAROME IGINLA:  They are awesome to play with, but Conroy is one of the best two-way centers in the game.  He's always gives the chance, we don't have to play a lot in our own zone.  He's been up for the Selke award I think a few times and you know, maybe should have won it, and it's great to play with him because yeah, we don't spend a lot of time in our zone because of that and he works very hard.  And as a winger he's a great passer and Martin Gelinas, he's such a dedicated hockey player.  We all want to be good professionals, but he's a true professional.  Night in and night out, you know exactly what you are getting.  He goes as hard as he can and he gives absolutely everything he's got.  And you know he's going to be -- there's never any doubt if you are trying to get to the puck who is first to the puck.  He's always going, and they are great to play with.  We have gotten some good bounces and yeah, I think there is some chemistry, I think anybody who plays with whoever are on those guys' line, they develop chemistry quickly. 
 Q.  Talk about how your game has evolved since, say, going into 2002, where you were then, where you are now not just on the ice but off the ice in terms of situations like this and dealing with us. 
 JAROME IGINLA:  I think each year in the league it's gone by quick.  This had been my eighth year.  And just trying to learn more, feel more comfortable on and off the ice.  I can't believe how quick it's gone, though, it's been an awesome experience, but when I was younger and people tell you that it's going to go quick you don't believe  -- I know it's going to go quick but it's gone way quicker than I expected.  But it's been everything that I have expected.  As far as on the ice, I think I try to be a power forward and I have always ever since pretty much since junior, been trying to work with that bounce.  I always looked up to guy like Shanahan, how he balanced the finesse and the physical sides and try to find balance.  I'm still working on that but with Darryl and some of the other coaches that I have had in the NHL.  I think each year some games trying to be more physical and sometimes I am over the ears and still now I try to be too physical and it takes away from the offense and vice versa.  As far as that, I'm still trying to find that balance and feeling more comfortable, but obviously I still have more to try and improve and be like Tkachuk and Shanahan and things like that. 
 Q.  Off the ice? 
 JAROME IGINLA:  Off the ice, I think there's so much, you know, to feeling more comfortable and preparing, preparing for games and trying to figure out what  -- how I feel the best and as far as sleep and things like that.  I used to love sleeping.  I don't sleep as much, but you guys don't want to hear about that anyway.  But yeah, just it's hard to put into words, but there is -- also watching guys like Martin Gelinas and how he is such a professional and how you work out on and off the ice trying to keep yourself in shape, when to try and get your rest, how you treat your body is very important.  This takes a lot of energy out on the ice.  Over the years trying to learn those things from ... 
 Q.  You seem so much more comfortable. 
 JAROME IGINLA:  Thanks.  I mean, I've done a few interviews and I hope it's been all right.  But yeah, I remember the first time when the camera would go on and the lights and how nervous and kind of like a deer caught in headlights.  I still get nervous and still say too many "ums," but it's fun.  It's all part of it and it's what I have dreamt about doing, watching my heroes when I was young doing interviews and things like that.  It's been a great experience. 
 Q.  Going back to the third period last night, did it have the feeling of a game that was still in doubt or was it more of setting the tone for Game 2 for you guys and their side? 
 JAROME IGINLA:  I don't think we are taking anything for granted.  We were down 4-0 earlier in the Playoffs this year and we found a way to force overtime and the Lightning are  -- they are probably the most offensive team in the league.  They are the most dangerous.  This time of year, with how close, how important every game is, no, I don't mean we are taking it for granted.  But at the same time, we knew that the Lightning would have a big push and not give up and believe that they can score goals.  It started to turn when they started to get a little bit momentum when we took those penalties and  -- but no, we're trying to stay focused but at 3-0 and as the game goes on, we also want to, as it gets closer to the end and it does look like, you know, well, it's 3-1 but when they took those penalties, we want to finish off strong to try to get a carryover into the next game and feel confident. 
 Q.  Do you feel that being named captain made you a better player? 
 JAROME IGINLA:  I don't know.  I think for a few years I have been in a leadership role as an assistant and felt some responsibility in that area and I don't know if it did or not.  But I think each year has been  -- I have been more in a leadership role and trying to help lead and help prepare with the guys and I think that's helped.  I think over the years, feeling more confident and being kind of in that leadership role.  I think it's been a progression over the years that's helped the confidence, also preparation and trying to prepare and be consistent.  But I don't know if it was  -- I don't know.  (Laughs).  Sorry. 
 Q.  A short-handed goal for yourself a couple of shorthanded chances for the team, was there something in Tampa's power play you saw that you felt you could exploit or take advantage have to create some of those chances? 
 JAROME IGINLA:  Not really.  I think that it's something that our power play, we always are on the  -- or the penalty kill, we're always on the lookout for a chance to put pressure on them.  They are a great power play, we know that.  We know what they have done in the Playoffs.  And they always have a forward back on D.  So it's something if you can get a chance to go, we want to go, but at the same time we don't want to take too many chances.  I mean, the power play  -- the penalty kill goal that I got, that was just a good break.  It bounced over a stick.  I think I could claim it was anticipation or seeing that, it just popped out there, they had gone up, they almost had a chance and it bounced and it turned out to be a good scoring chance for our team.  That was just probably a good break. 
 Q.  Your team has only given up four goals in 20 games so far in the Playoffs in the first period.  Talk about your first periods, not giving up the fast start to other teams as well as  -- well, that's good. 
 JAROME IGINLA:  Yeah, we have really tried to concentrate on the start.  We're an energy group.  We try to rev it up and try to get it going for the first period.  It's something that we have gotten some bounces in the first period, but also we have really, like I said, we have really tried to concentrate on it and that's  -- tried to go from there, and first periods have been pretty good for us this Playoffs and we have all kind of fed off of that, but hopefully we can continue that. 
 Q.  You have the terrible reputation of being a really nice guy.  Is it something your colleagues rib you over?  It is a difficult cross to bear and where does it come from? 
 JAROME IGINLA:  No, they don't rib me.  I think they give it to me, I don't think they think I am a nice guy, so it's something that, no, you just  -- thanks.  You know, I just know that I am thankful to be in the NHL.  This has been something that I have dreamt about since seven years old.  This is the time of my life.  It really is.  As far as a group, we have a group of good guys in our dressing room that enjoy playing together.  We have fun together.  And that's it.  I don't know.  (Laughs). 
 Q.  Each series it has so many ups and downs, the ebbs and the flows, as the captain of this team, how do you embellish the role of trying to keep and match the intensity of what you think perhaps the Tampa Bay Lightning would bring to Game 2?  What can you do with your persona as captain of this team to rise to that intensity? 
 JAROME IGINLA:  I think that  -- I mean, we try to rev it up in our dressing room before the game, in between games, on days off, all Playoffs, we try to relax a little bit but we're excited.  This is a great time.  It's what we worked for.  But yeah, before the games we start to try to build it up and know the importance, make sure everybody, just get the atmosphere in the room going and then when the game comes, it's kind of everybody's first shift.  It's all of our first shift.  We all try to lead and go out there, we're a team that we like to call ourselves an energy team and get some bangs, get in the other team's face, try to get hard on the defensemen early.  We try to make it our responsibility.  Personally we try to have all of us as individuals and lines to concentrate on our first shifts going out and, you know, if we don't have that momentum right from the first shift starting it, if we do have it, it's the next line's job responsibility to carry that on.  It's really about each line taking that leadership to be in their first shift. 
 Q.  What do you do in the room?  Give us an idea, how do you get revved up? 
 JAROME IGINLA:  The yelling and the (laughs)  -- 
 Q.  Yeah. 
 JAROME IGINLA:  It is just kind of a telling, you know, some games over the course of a year, I mean there's a lot of games and some  might feel a little flatter than others in the room, but it's not really  -- it's kind of we all take that  -- Rhett is a great guy.  He's a pretty loud guy.  He gets it going a little bit.  Dave Lowry has a loud, burly voice when he's going a bit.  It is a feeling.  It's hard to say exactly what it is.  But sometimes it might feel flatter than others, and we  -- I think we kind of as a group know what works.  Sometimes you can feel the nervousness and then we try to loosen it up with maybe some guy will say a joke or something.  Just give a guy a rib or something.  It is kind of just feeling it and getting comfortable and kind of knowing our group, and I think we have done a better job as it's gone on in preparing and trying to get those starts going.  Darryl also comes in.  I think he can sense it and gives the kick once in a while if he doesn't feel it's right. 
 Q.  You partially answered my question there, but some captains lead by example on the ice and some captains have to dress down their fellows in the dressing room.  What kind of captain are you? 
 JAROME IGINLA:  I try to lead, I think, more by example.  I am not very loud.  I mean, I shouldn't say I am not very loud because my teammates would say I talk too much a lot.  Very opinionated or whatever.  But it's something  -- you know, I try to lead by example.  Try to go out and, I think our whole team is, as I said, I think we're  -- we have enjoyed trying to be an energy team, trying to be an in-your-face team, and personally I try to be like that, and but it's  -- it's something that we have always taken pride in.  I wear the C as the captain, but we all, there's a lot of leaders in that room and when we go on the ice, whether it's a youngest guy, a Chuck Kobasew or whatever it's kind of just trying to take pride and leading, however old we are in that style of game. 
 Q.  How special has this Playoff run been for you after missing the Playoffs, all these years and also who are some of your heroes when you were growing up? 
 JAROME IGINLA:  This Playoff run has been so special.  I probably appreciate it more, I mean I would have loved to be in the Playoffs every year, but it wasn't the case.  We have been rebuilding as a group and to actually turn the corner this year and make the Playoffs first of all, was an awesome feeling.  It was.  And to win the first series felt like a mini Stanley Cup, you know, just for a day or two, just to be a part of it and to be a part of a first series success and the second felt even better and the third and now being one series away and the way the fans  -- the fans have also made it so fun in Calgary to have them enjoying it with us and cheering along and really getting excited. 
 And some of the players that I have looked up to, being a young, I was the only black player on my team, and I mean, I grew up in Saint Albert, just outside of Edmonton.  Loved the Oilers, so I loved Wayne Gretzky.  Everybody loved him.  Mark Messier, loved his leadership, his intensity.  Grant Fuhr and being a minority player, and I also followed other minority players black players in Claude Vilgrain in New Jersey, Tony McKegney.  It was something that because being the only black player on my team growing up, I  -- you know, I dreamt just like everybody else to be in the NHL.  When I would say, that some other kids, not trying to be mean, saying, well, there are not that many black players in the NHL.  What are the chances?  I know what it meant to me.  It was nice to be able to say, look at Grant Fuhr winning his Stanley Cups and Claude Vilgrain scoring 30 goals and Tony McKegney 40, there weren't that many, but it was a lot easier to being able to say that and then other kids going oh, yeah, I guess there are.  Also for seeing that it was possible. 
 Q.  Would it take some pride if black kids followed your lead and said, I want to play in the NHL and I want to be like Jarome Iginla, and do you think about that or do you just feel that if I leave my game on the ice people will respond? 
 JAROME IGINLA:  Absolutely.  I take pride in it and I do think about it.  It's something as I just said, I know what it meant to me.  It's hard to put in words, but it made me feel it was possible and I really tried  -- I remember watching Dale Craigwell and Fred Braithwaite when they were playing with Eric Lindros and Oshawa winning the Memorial Cup and seeing other young black players coming up and getting excited about that.  So yeah, knowing what it meant to me and thinking that maybe there is other young black kids who want to play, and in the same situation that I was and wanting to follow that dream, but there's more.  There's so many more black players for young minorities to look up to in all different positions; great goalies, defensemen, tough guys, scorers, offensive players, but I would definitely  -- it's a neat feeling to think maybe there are some kids in that same situation. 
 Q.  On one of the telecasts last night you were referred to as having become the world's greatest hockey player.  What are your thoughts about that?  Do you think you are?  Do you aspire to be that? 
 JAROME IGINLA:  That's very flattering.  That's a nice compliment, but that's hard to believe that that would be said.  No, it's something that this Playoff run has been exciting for our team and we all get more coverage and personally I want to be -- I have always wanted to be an elite player in the league and a star in the league and I want to get better.  I look at some of the best players in the league, Sakic and Forsberg, you know.  Those guys I really look up to, their intensity and their winning, I have always loved Brendan Shanahan's game and playing with Sakic at the Olympics and seeing what kind of player and how dedicated he is and what kind of person he is, it was a great experience.  Looking to them how they do it year in and year out.  If we tried to shut down Sakic, you know, and you can't.  He finds a way to be consistent.  So I would like to get better and I feel I am going to work at it and try to get better, but that's a huge compliment. 
 Q.  Two things that go against the grain, one is you and what is your team, not many big-time scorers are willing to drop the gloves and mix it up.  Number 2, you guys have done so well on the road and having explain those two dichotomies? 
 JAROME IGINLA:  I don't really drop the gloves too often, but it's an intense sport.  It's a battle out there and it's fun to compete, and fighting is part of the game.  I don't really look for fights and I don't really try to avoid them, it's just part of it.  I think our whole team style is, we try to be aggressive and we try to be intense and we enjoy trying to be in your face and competing, and as a result it's going to happen.  There is a time and place for it.  But all of it is a fun part of the game.  What was the second part? 
 Q.  The home/road thing. 
 JAROME IGINLA:  We have tried to play the same way home or away.  We try to have a great start.  We like playing at home.  Our atmosphere at home is probably the best atmosphere in the league right now.  The crowd has been unbelievable, all the red, the noise, we like it.  It's hard to explain why we haven't had that the same success, but on the road also, we have really just tried to concentrate on the first periods.  And when you talk about a road game, the first period is very important to try, you know, you have heard it a lot "tied or better" on the road.  We have found a way to get that done on the road and hopefully it will continue. 
 Q.  A lot of buzz about you that you could be the quote, unquote crossover type of player in this league, they could market you  -- I hate to bring up Tiger Woods or race, but you could do for hockey what he did for golf that kind of thing.  Would you be comfortable having that kind of role, that if the league came to you said we're going to market this whole league around you, would you be comfortable being that kind of quote, unquote face of hockey; take it to the next level, that they haven't had since maybe Gretzky was here? 
 JAROME IGINLA:  I'd be comfortable in trying to help, as with other players and trying to help grow the game.  I mean, it's a great game.  I think you look at kids who get involved and I have a hockey school and young ones who are five or six, once they get involved, they just love the game, the speed, the equipment, being able to go and crash around.  Once they taste it, I think kids fall in love with the game.  Yeah, I think if, I don't obviously know at that level, (laughs) that it could be done but if there's anyway as part of it, anyway to help promote the game as being a player in the NHL, it's a great game, I'd love to do that with  -- but I think the game has very young exciting players coming up that are going to be great to watch.  You look at teams like Tampa Bay, Ottawa, the game is shifting I think to the style of game, so I think there's a lot of positive about it, but I would embrace, as I am sure a lot of players would, anything to try to promote. 
 Thank you guys. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT