ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
March 2, 2020
Salma Khatun
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Sri Lanka - 92/1, Bangladesh - 91/8
Q. So what are the learnings you take away from this tournament?
SALMA KHATUN: This was the first time we've played in these conditions, and it's very different than ours. Usually we have the series, more series in Asia.
So this experience will help us to go forward. The most important thing that we learned from here is about power cricket and the level of fitness. That is the thing, and another important thing is how quickly you can learn. So that will definitely help us in future.
Q. How do you go about improving those things?
SALMA KHATUN: The first thing that will help us to improve our skill and performance, I believe it's the level of fitness. And the second most crucial thing is we need to play regularly with the top-ranked teams. And we should have a chance to exchange tools between top-ranked teams and us. So the more we'll play with them, the more we'll improve. So that is the key for us.
Q. What about fielding? How much of a focus will that be, do you think, going forward for the team? Had a few missed fields that cost you.
SALMA KHATUN: Yes, in the match, any one match we batted well. In one match we bowled well. But the fielding, that is really a big concern for us, definitely. We took our notes on it and after going back to our home with this experience, we'll set our strategy and set our planning how we can improve our field for other series for future. Definitely we'll work on it.
Q. You touched on the fitness. How would you go about improving your fitness? What sort of things do you need to do there?
SALMA KHATUN: The strength we'll emphasise on, to increase the strength. So that will be the key, to increase our fitness. And in case our strength of shoulder and both legs, that could be worked properly for us and definitely we'll look into that.
Q. This is your first trip to Australia. What have you enjoyed most about being down here?
SALMA KHATUN: We really enjoyed our time over here and wherever we went. But the most important thing, the local people; they were so cooperative. They were so lovely. And they always gave us the encouragement. So that is the one thing that we really loved from here. And of course the opportunity playing up here, playing with the big teams, that is also a good part of this tour.
Q. Which of your young players really impressed you with their performances, and which of them do you think will really keep going on from this experience to be good players in the future?
SALMA KHATUN: I believe that among young players Murshida Khatun will be a future star in women's cricket. And the more she'll play, the more she'll improve.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT