ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
November 12, 2018
Salma Khatun
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
England - 64/3 (9.3)-DLS, Bangladesh - 76/9   
 Q.  You really gave England a scare out there, taking those two early wickets, and it looked like you could cause a big upset.  How did that feel?  
SALMA KHATUN: A fast wicket I feel is really good.  I think it lead to three, two wickets.  We fielded well with two catches and a close stumping, but I think two, three wickets, we could have put them under more pressure and the match I think actually finished closer than it looked.   
 Q.  This is the second match where your batters have failed to post a competitive score and have sort of let you down.  What's the reason -- what would you say was the underlying reason?  Are they having problems adjusting to the conditions?  Are the pitches difficult?  Have they been finding the pitches difficult to bat on?  
SALMA KHATUN: I think first match, West Indies, we batted very poorly.  Second match today, I think we a little bit better - I think shot choice was not good, the batter is losing wickets cheaply.   
 Q.  You've played two matches, and even though you've lost, your players seem to be very happy.  They seem to be having fun playing the game and enjoying everything that's happening.  How much fun have you guys had since you've arrived here in the Caribbean?  Are you genuinely enjoying playing cricket?  
SALMA KHATUN: Yes, generally enjoying cricket, but I think we can play better cricket, smarter cricket.  I think the wicket here is good and hopefully we can do better.   
 Q.  Any message for the grounds staff who did such a great job of getting the match with so much rain?  You turn up here today and get a full match.  
SALMA KHATUN: Yes, today so much rain, and today sunshine.  We are very lucky to have played a game and I want to thank the groundsmen so much.   
 Q.  Two more matches to go.  What do you think you can achieve?  I know you'll definitely be looking for a win.  You're Asia Cup champions.  Do you definitely think you can topple Sri Lanka, for example?  
SALMA KHATUN: Yeah, last two matches was not our best, and I think we need to make a really good batting improvement for the matches against Sri Lanka and South Africa match.  I hope we can play really good cricket.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT