NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 7, 2014
Rashard Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Is LeBron prepared for the next game? 
    RASHARD LEWIS:   Yeah, he's obviously prepared, drinking lots of water, staying hydrated and I'm sure he will be prepared and ready to go for Game 2. 

Q.   How do you avoid a situation like last game? 
    RASHARD LEWIS:   Just a tough situation, the AC wasn't working and it was just really hot, but I don't think both teams were thinking about it too much.   We were just out there trying to compete and win a ballgame.   At the same time it was just, you know, the conditions wasn't very good and the calories were burning up, but you can't make excuses because they was playing in the game gym we was. 

Q.   Does the Sonics‑Spurs playoff that you played in seem like a long time ago? 
    RASHARD LEWIS:   Yeah, it does, especially with me and Ray playing against those guys.   We was all young.   Tim Duncan was young, Manu Ginobili, we was all young and now we're old veterans. 
    Still the same team, same organization that executed and if you make mistakes, they're going to beat you off your mistakes, and I thought we made mistakes in that fourth quarter. 

Q.   How have you changed over those years?   What's the biggest change? 
    RASHARD LEWIS:   Well, back when I played them I was obviously one of the main guys on the offensive end.   This time around I'm more of a role player, trying to defend.   I knock down open shots when I get them.   But I feel like it's going to be tough.   It's always tough playing against the Spurs, and we do have a chance to beat them, Game 2, but at the same time we have to come out and execute. 

Q.   Do you remember being overwhelmed in that series? 
    RASHARD LEWIS:   Yeah, I was overwhelmed and even back there when I was with the Sonics, I remember winning Game 2 on their home court.   So it can be done but you have to go in and take it.   It's not going to be given to you because this is a great team.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT