NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 6, 2014
Rashard Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. (Inaudible).
    RASHARD LEWIS:   I think they played well in the last six minutes and we made some turnovers at crucial points and didn't execute on the offensive end.   And they ran out and got easy baskets and layups and wide‑open three‑pointers.   And we just lost focus the last five, six minutes of the game. 

Q.   What was it like trying to cool down?   Was it different from a regular game as far as after the game what you did? 
    RASHARD LEWIS:   Yeah, it was screaming hot in the locker room, as well, kept sweating even when I put my clothes on.   I don't think I cooled off until I got on the bus.   The bus had some AC and that's when I finally started to cool off. 
    But it's just something that happened.   The Spurs played in the same conditions, and I thought they executed late in the game. 

Q.   Ever cramped when you couldn't play? 
    RASHARD LEWIS:   Most definitely, yeah, I had to sit down, especially until my hamstring‑‑ anywhere in your legs there is no way you can run up and down, every time you run or jump, it locks right back up. 

Q.   To the common fan who says well, I've run when I've had cramps before, what does it feel like? 
    RASHARD LEWIS:   I mean, you know, everybody has their opinion, but it was extremely hot in the gym.   When you cramp up and you try to go out there and force yourself to play, all you can do is injure yourself from there.   So I thought our guys made a smart decision. 

Q.   Rashard, you've known Ray Allen for quite some time now.   The dunk, what was your reaction? 
    RASHARD LEWIS:   It was Ray Allen time.   You know, he went down the middle and finished strong.   When Ray is playing like that when he is going to the basket and finishing layups and knocking down his three‑point ball, he's very tough to guard. 

Q.   What does it say about his conditioning that in those circumstances where everyone was kinda feeling it, he was still able to‑‑
    RASHARD LEWIS:   He takes care of his body.   I can honestly say since I've been playing with him in Seattle, he takes care of his body very well and he's always hydrating himself.   And he's probably one of the healthiest guys in the NBA. 

Q.   In your Seattle days do you remember a play like that where you were like, oh, okay, Ray? 
    RASHARD LEWIS:   All the time.   He may not dunk for 50 straight games and then out of the blue, he will come and do it like he does it all the time.   I remember when I was playing for Orlando, he was at Boston and he's a three‑point shooter, and he went to the basket and I went to block the shot and he turned it over on me, and I'm like, you know!   So he will surprise you.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT