NBA FINALS: MAGIC v LAKERS
June 10, 2009
Rashard Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. There's a lot of people who think a team can't go all the way to a championship by being a team that beats you over the top, a lot of outside shooting. The numbers you guys put up in some of the playoff games in the regular season being top 3 in three-pointers made, do you think it's more a myth or do you think there's something to that, that eventually that well runs dry? Or is it a matter of a team is going to make a breakthrough and show, hey, we can string together four really hot shooting games in one series?
 RASHARD LEWIS: I think you can string together hot shooting games and win the series. We've done it. We got ourselves to The Finals by doing it, and we've done it all season long, one of the best teams in the NBA. We don't want to take that away from our team, and when we're not successful doing it, I think we can go away from it and try to play a different way. We might not be as successful as we are now. So I think by getting to The Finals, as far as getting the ball inside to Dwight, we've got to go with it until we get eliminated. 

 Q. All those years with the Suns, they had Amaré, sort of like Dwight, a lot of three-pointers, the same style. A lot of people around the league said that's not going to work, that's eventually not going to do it. Did you look at the Suns back then and say, if they make a few more it'll work?
 RASHARD LEWIS: They were a great offensive team, and they got them as far as it got them, but we're pretty much the same style of team, shoot a lot of threes as well as get the ball inside to Dwight. 
 I think we're a better defensive team than they were at that time. We're one of the best defensive teams in the league, and I think that's a combination of us being a pretty good defensive team as well as a great offensive teams, it definitely helps us win a lot more games. 

 Q. Game 3 was a better game offensivelyF, a complete game. Would you agree with that?
 RASHARD LEWIS: I think we both definitely had a great offensive night, but I think they also shot 51 percent from the field, and we have to most definitely pick it up on the defensive end of the floor. If we can put a complete defensive game together as well as shoot a record breaking 60-something percent, then we most definitely have a better chance of winning the ballgame. But I think it all starts on the defensive end of the floor. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT