NBA FINALS: MAGIC v LAKERS
June 9, 2009
Rashard Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Los Angeles Lakers - 104
  Orlando Magic - 108 
   
  Q. Can you put into perspective the Magic winning the first Finals game in this franchise history. And also what were you thinking when you had that little delay there after Kobe fouled you?   
 RASHARD LEWIS: I mean, this is good for this franchise to obviously get the first win in the NBA Finals, but we're still down 2-1. We're excited about being at home, playing at home. We think our crowd really does give us extra energy. The game is never over until that last second runs off the clock. Kobe is liable to do anything, hit a big three, get open, get to the basket, and we've got to keep the defensive pressure on. Coach was mad for us not getting that rebound at the end of the game. They're a tough team. They fight for wins.   
  
  Q. How shocking was it the first two games that you guys struggled to shoot the ball, something you've done well all season, and to break through tonight, what was that like?  
 RASHARD LEWIS: It was good that we were able to start knocking down shots. We knocked down shots all season long, but there's always a game here and there where we don't shoot the ball well, and it happened during the season. It happened during the playoffs, as well. Eventually the shots will start falling.   
 I thought we moved the ball around a lot, made a defensive move from side to side, and we were knocking down shots.   
  
  Q. What has been the key for you offensively for this series? You've had some pretty good games and been pretty consistent for the most part.   
 RASHARD LEWIS: I think obviously with Gasol in the game, he likes to stay around the paint. But I give a lot of credit to Dwight Howard. When you run a pick-and-roll, two guys have to pick him up, they have to play close to him, and it's leaving me wide open to shoot some threes. Lamar will try to go to the basket, get easy baskets.   
 But a lot of that credit goes to Dwight. When we pass low to him, he gets crowded, he gets double-teamed and he's making good passes out of the double-team.  
  
  Q. Also, a lot of people might look at your contract and make some criticism, but talk about your play and how you use that as motivation right now to show them that that's something not to talk about anymore?   
 RASHARD LEWIS: I mean, the contract situation always comes up, but to me it's not really a big deal. I just go out there to play basketball. Obviously playing well in the playoffs, 20, 21 points, I can do that during the season, but that's not my job. My job is to do what Stan wants me to go out there and do. Our No. 1 option offensively is Dwight Howard. We've got a great scorer in Hedo Turkoglu. I feel like I'm a third option and I'm still getting the job done. At the end of the day as long as we win ballgames, I could care less if I score five points. As long as we win the ballgame, I'm happy with that.   
  
  Q. Five players for the Orlando Magic with 18 or more. Talk about the balance for the Magic.   
 RASHARD LEWIS: Yeah, we had a balance attack going in. We've been doing that all season long, and that's another reason why you don't have to average 20 or more points on this team because we've got other guys that can really light it up on the offensive end, Pietrus started, Skip to My Lou got us started in that first quarter, so we all had like 18 or 20 points, and we have a balanced attack not only with the starters but guys coming off the bench.  
  
  Q. You got hammered in Game 1, lost a close one out there in LA. Obviously this was a must-win situation. I asked Rafer, but can you talk about the locker room and obviously the importance even on this next game?   
 RASHARD LEWIS: I mean, it most definitely was a must-win situation. We didn't want to be down 3-0 playing on our home court. They're a tough team to beat. It was a good game tonight. Locker room was excited about winning the ballgame, but at the same time, we know this game is over. Now we've got to focus on the next game, and this team is going to come even better with more of a defensive effort.   
 We shot the ball spectacular tonight, and I'm sure that's going to be the No. 1 stat they look at, our percentage, and they're going to come with a better defensive effort and it's going to be even tougher the next game.   
  
  Q. The team took 14 three-point attempts. That's probably the fewest that you've had in a playoff, and you had the record shooting percentage. Was that by design or was it something discussed?  
 RASHARD LEWIS: Credit goes to the Lakers' defense. Live and die by the three-point line. We get the ball to Dwight first, but they're closing out pretty hard. We have no choice but to put the ball down on the floor and try to get a mid-range jump shot or get to the basket. And those guys are doing a great defensive job of crowding Dwight and running us off the three-point line. You've got to take what the defense gives you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT