NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BRUINS v CANUCKS
May 31, 2011
Christian Ehrhoff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Christian Ehrhoff.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 CHRISTIAN EHRHOFF: I think a combination of both. You know, the way we are coached, we can adapt to any situation we face, like we had to do in the Nashville series, which was a total different game than we want to play or we used to play. But our personnel definitely gives us all the options.   
 We have great goaltenders that will stop the puck if we need to push a little more offense. And all our D's can make plays, and all our forwards can make plays, do a great job for us offensively.   
  
  Q. Teams usually have one or the other. Why do you think this team has been successful with offense and defense?   
 CHRISTIAN EHRHOFF: Like I said, we have guys that can adapt to everything, that are comfortable playing different roles or different systems. That definitely has helped us to reach this point.   
  
  Q. (Question regarding matchups.)   
 CHRISTIAN EHRHOFF: No, not really. That's something that is very positive for us. We don't really have to worry about that. We like to roll the way we want to roll, and other teams have to adapt to that.   
 We can be comfortable with our fourth line being out against the other team's top line.   
  
  Q. I know you've been battling injuries lately. Are you ready to go for the final?   
 CHRISTIAN EHRHOFF: Yes, I'm ready to go.   
  
  Q. You've had injuries all year. You never seem to dissipate defensively.   
 CHRISTIAN EHRHOFF: It's been huge for us. The last couple years, we've always been plagued with injuries on the back end. That's something that brings in a lot of guys. We have 10, 11 guys that all can play in the top six. So when a guy is missing a game due to injury, we don't miss a beat. We fill that spot right in.   
 We've done that all year. That's, yeah, definitely one of our great things that we have.   
  
  Q. Will you be able to carry your normal workload?  
 CHRISTIAN EHRHOFF: No, I'm ready to go. Whatever the coaches need me to do, I'm ready to go.   
  
  Q. Obviously, the Bruins have struggled on the power-play. Do you see that as an area where you can exploit them?   
 CHRISTIAN EHRHOFF: Yeah, we definitely want to keep going on our special teams. We've done a great job so far. We definitely need more of that.   
  
  Q. (Question regarding the power-play.)   
 CHRISTIAN EHRHOFF: I don't know. I think we just keep doing and having doing what we did all season long. You know, a couple games it doesn't work that well, but we stick to the process. We keep doing what we do out there, try to take advantage of what the other team's giving us. That has made us successful all season long.   
  
  Q. Do you watch film regarding the other team's power-play?   
 CHRISTIAN EHRHOFF: You still prepare and try to see what their tendencies are. You definitely get prepared for that.   
 But, yeah, they might throw a curve ball at you and you got to adjust to that quickly.   
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Kevin Bieksa.   
   
    
  
   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT