NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SHARKS v CANUCKS
May 18, 2011
Kevin Bieksa
Christian Ehrhoff
Dan Hamhuis
Roberto Luongo
Daniel Sedin
Henrik Sedin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
 COACH VIGNEAULT: I haven't got nothing to say. I've said it all. I'm sure there's no questions today (laughter). Anything in French (smiling)?   
  
  Q. What does it say about Ryan to not take the bait at the opening faceoff in Game 1? Would there have been a time in his career when he would have taken that bait?  
 COACH VIGNEAULT: Hockey is an emotional game. I'm not going to get into every little thing that happens on the ice.   
 It's two players that want to win.   
  
  Q. How important do you think speed will be in determining the winner of this series?   
 COACH VIGNEAULT: Well, I think both teams have a tremendous amount of speed and like to play fast. Both teams have a good rush game where, you know, D joins the attack.   
 I think the one that's going to be able to execute at the highest level is going to give themselves the best chance.   
  
  Q. You're certainly looking for as much speed in the lineup as you can. Is that fair to say?  
 COACH VIGNEAULT: I think it's an element of our game that when we have played north/south, gone up the ice real quickly, we've been real effective. It's probably one of the things we'd like to do.   
  
  Q. Game 1 maybe didn't get the fourth line guys the minutes you might have expected to start the series. Is that a goal for you to get them into the action a little bit earlier on tonight?  
 COACH VIGNEAULT: Yeah, we had a lot of time in between for us, in between games, like we do now, in between games. Sometimes you play your top-end players a little bit more.   
 Obviously, you know, you'd like to be able to throw that fourth line and give them their seven, eight minutes because that enables us to have a better pace on the ice.   
 We'll see what they do and figure it out after.   
  
  Q. Did you watch the game last night?   
 COACH VIGNEAULT: Yes.   
  
  Q. What is it like when an NHL coach watches a 6-5 fire wagon game?   
 COACH VIGNEAULT: I thought it was a pretty good game really. Maybe you saw some interesting moments from both teams. Boston giving up the goal in the first minute, the goal in the last minute. That's always challenging. That's momentum shifters, obviously.   
 Then they come out and they score great goals in the second period, get a 6-3 lead, then give them two goals.   
 It's momentum. It's playoff hockey. You could feel the tension on the ice. Great game for the fans.   
  
  Q. Would you be pleased to see a game like that in here tonight?   
 COACH VIGNEAULT: I just want to win. Doesn't matter how. We want to win. That's the bottom line.   
  
  Q. Alain, do you expect Samuelsson to go on the road with you this series?  
 COACH VIGNEAULT: No.   
  
  Q. Do you have an update?  
 COACH VIGNEAULT: No, not yet.   
  
  Q. They've talked about being much more physical in Game 2, especially on your D with their forecheck. What can your forwards do to help?  
 COACH VIGNEAULT: Come back quick. Get available so that we can get out of our end as quick as we can. That was one of the key ingredients for us in both our first series. It's obviously going to be a huge one in this series.   
 San Jose is a team that comes at you real hard. The quicker we're back, the quicker we're out of our end, spending our energy in their end.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT