PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 15, 2007
Nicole Vaidisova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Nicole, please.   
  
  Q.  Pretty close match out there today?   
 NICOLE VAIDISOVA:  Yeah, definitely, you know.  I think I lost my rhythm in the second set, played a great first set and, you know, a couple mistakes here and there and she was able to take advantage of it.   
  
  Q.  I had the feeling that was a match of exceptionally high quality.  What do you think?   
 NICOLE VAIDISOVA:  No, I think we both played some great tennis.  Definitely.  I mean it was a good match, you know, fortunately didn't end up the way I wanted it to be.   
 But I feel good with the way I play, how I hit the ball again.  It's good.  I had couple weeks off, so, you know, I'm happy that I'm getting back to where I want to be.   
  
  Q.  A couple days ago Martina Hingis, your match was the -- she felt you were the best player of the young generation, like upcoming players.  How do you feel?   
 NICOLE VAIDISOVA:  I don't know.  I mean, I don't really think about it like that.  I just try to win games, I try to win matches, whoever's on the other side.   
 So, it's very nice of her to say because she's such a great player, such a great champion.  But I, you know, have to really focus on myself and not really pay attention so much to what they say.   
  
  Q.  Do you look at that match in any way in your own mind as a missed opportunity?   
 NICOLE VAIDISOVA:  I mean, every match you lose, pretty much, I guess, kind of a missed opportunity, but not exceptionally today.  I mean, she picked it up very well in the second set.  You know, was able to use the fact that I, you know, slipped off for a game or two, and, you know, won the third set.   
  
  Q.  The first time you played her other than in a Grand Slam tournament.  Does that change the ambiance, so to speak, the environment of the match, that is?   
 NICOLE VAIDISOVA:  I think you still want to win badly, you know.  Of course, the atmosphere is a little bit different.  But, I mean, it's one of our biggest tournaments of the year, so I don't think I really treated it any other differently?   
  
  Q.  In one game you resisted three match points.  When you do that, do you kind of get the feeling that, maybe, well, this is going to be my day?   
 NICOLE VAIDISOVA:  I really don't have those thoughts when you play.  You don't have time for that.  But, I mean, of course you try to fight till the end.  You don't want to lose easily, so, you know, just trying till the end.   
  
  Q.  You had a rather unusual shot that was headed out and hit the net and bounced in for a win are.  Did that perk up your spirits at one point?   
 NICOLE VAIDISOVA:  Yeah, I mean, that was kind of a lucky shot.  Of course, if it would have gone wide and hit the net would give her 40-15, so, yeah, I got a little lucky there.   
  
  Q.  What kind of pressures do you feel, being so young and having people like, you know, other people say that you're the best player of the next generation.  When you stop and think about it, what --   
 NICOLE VAIDISOVA:  Like I said, I don't really think about it because it's, you know, I mean, people's opinion who don't even really know me as much.  I try to pay attention what my parents say, my coach, everybody I really have in my small circle.  It's nice, of course, to listen to it, but I think you have to kind of push it out of your head and just your own thing, still work hard and just focus on yourself.   
  
  Q.  Is there just tennis?  I know you have a clothing line, too, or who deals with that?  Do you ever have to think about that?   
 NICOLE VAIDISOVA:  Well, I have a manager who kind of helps me, you know, like with all this stuff.  So, you know, it's definitely there's more to tennis than just the actual tennis and hitting the ball, so...   
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT