US OPEN
August 31, 2006
Nicole Vaidisova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. Q. Could you describe the match in terms of the scores were very different in each set. What happened with the back and forth? NICOLE VAIDISOVA: You know, in general was not a great match from my point of view today, you know. Just struggling a little bit. But, you know, got through it, and that's important. So just get ready for my next match. Q. There was a little bit of commotion when you were playing over on the practice court. Agassi was practicing. Did you notice any of that with fans running up? NICOLE VAIDISOVA: I didn't know he was practicing. I try to play my match, you know, not really...Q. Can I go to a non match thing. I just want to get a sense from you, now that you've emerged in the upper echelon, talk about a few of the other players and who has which players stand out as really the next hurdle? I mean, who are the players that you look to and say, This is who I am going to have to beat now that I realistically can win a tournament like this?NICOLE VAIDISOVA: Well, anybody I'm facing next. That's important for me.Q. But of the world at large out there. As the tournament begins, as your career goes onward, you say, Okay, this is the upper echelon out there. This is who I have to get past or join if I'm going to be one of the best players in the world. NICOLE VAIDISOVA: Well, I'm No. 10 in the world so, you know, nine more players are in front of me I'm gonna have to be beating, you know. So, you know, I don't think there's one special player I'm thinking, Okay, I have to beat her now to be in the top, or her. You just have to win matches. If you want to be top 5, top 3, you have to be beating all those players, so there's not one particular player. Q. Do you feel like players like you and Ivanovic are going to be the next sensation on the circuit? NICOLE VAIDISOVA: I'm just trying to play my tennis, enjoy, you know, do my best. You know, I think it's great that there are new players coming up, you know, new faces, new names, new stories. I think it's very good for the tour. Hopefully, we'll get up there. FastScripts by ASAP Sports...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT