PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 12, 2005
Nicole Vaidisova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions.  
 
 
Q.  It was very hot watching out there.  How hot was it on court?
 
NICOLE VAIDISOVA:  Yeah, it was really hot.  But, you know, once you start playing, you don't really feel the heat that much till you finish.  I mean, so I know it was really hot, but till I finished I didn't pay attention to it.  
 
Q.  Talk about the third set.  She got back on you in the second.  Third set, she was making a lot of errors.  You seemed very much in control. 
 
NICOLE VAIDISOVA:  Yeah, I was in control the first set totally, then I, you know, lost it.  I made some stupid mistakes.  I didn't serve well through the whole match.  But I got it back together in the third set.  I didn't give her much chances in the third.  
 
Q.  Playing with someone like her, so hit-and-miss when she's not on her game, how do you approach that? 
 
NICOLE VAIDISOVA:  Yeah, I mean, she's definitely a tough player.  I mean, you know, she hits the ball very hard and moves well.  She's definitely a good player, so you have to be very professional with her, you have to go for every ball.  
 
Q.  You were trying to mix it up a little bit at times.  Is that part of the strategy?
 
NICOLE VAIDISOVA:  You know, I just try, you know, what works, see where she has a little weakness, see where she's better.  You know, just tried something else.  
 
Q.  Tier I tournament, couple rounds in.  How do you feel going into the rest of the week? 
 
NICOLE VAIDISOVA:  It's great.  I'm looking forward to it definitely.  Every match is great for me.  I'm looking forward for every one of them.  I'm definitely happy the way I'm playing.  
 
Q.  I think you're playing Pierce.  Should you play her, how is that going to be to play a two-time Grand Slam champion?  Somebody you watched or heard about when you were growing up?
 
NICOLE VAIDISOVA:  I heard about her definitely.  I saw Mary play many times on TV.  She's a great champion.  As I say, every match you're out there.  It's my second year on the tour.  I'm 15.  It's a great experience for me.  So I'm definitely looking forward to playing her.  
 
Q.  Is it more special when you're playing a player with Grand Slam titles?  Does it get you a little more excited?
 
NICOLE VAIDISOVA:  Yeah, a little.  I think it's a little more exciting because, you know, you're looking forward to competing seeing where your level is actually with those players, I guess.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT