AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2008
Nicole Vaidisova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  There were times in the match when you really were hanging there, seemed like, then got a little bit away from you.  What do you think happened and what was the difference? 
 NICOLE VAIDISOVA:  I just think Serena played better today.  I think I had my chances, especially in the second set.  Didn't chose the right shot, maybe went for too much.  She pushes you to do that.  That was the difference. 
 The points that were very important, she went out there and played a great point.  So, yeah, at these moments she was the better player. 

 Q.  How do you compare the way she's playing and moving, say, to last year when you played her here?  Do you remember? 
 NICOLE VAIDISOVA:  That's so hard to compare, last year.  I think it was a different game, a different match.  So it's -- I can't really look back and think of that. 

 Q.  What do you think it's going to take to beat her from you?  Is it going to take a lot more hard work or is it a mental thing, you think? 
 NICOLE VAIDISOVA:  I think a little bit of both.  I mean, a lot of it is the mental thing, for sure.  But, yeah, just try to improve a little bit on my game, obviously.  I have a couple of weeks till my next tournament, so I have time to work on that. 

 Q.  There were times when you were trying to change the pace on her a little bit.  Used a dropshot three or four times.  Were you confident just hitting with her, going toe to toe, you would be able... 
 NICOLE VAIDISOVA:  No, I don't think that was a smart thing to do, to try to outhit her.  I think I should have maybe played a little slower or maybe kept the ball in play a little longer.  I think that was a wrong tactic there. 

 Q.  What do you think her chances are this year, winning the tournament the way she's playing? 
 NICOLE VAIDISOVA:  Obviously she's got a, you know, tough, tough half - especially there's good players.  She seems, you know, in good shape, playing well.  I think she always has great chances.  She's a great player. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT