WIMBLEDON
July 5, 2007
Nicole Vaidisova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Nicole Vaidisova. 

 Q.  You're a pretty emotional player on court, very likely emotional off the court, too.  How are you going to put this nightmare behind you? 
 NICOLE VAIDISOVA:  Well, obviously I'm very disappointed right now.  There is nothing which you can think of it besides that right now. 
 But, you know, you'll sleep over it and try to forget about it. 

 Q.  Will Fed Cup help? 
 NICOLE VAIDISOVA:  No, I don't think so.  I think by that time, when that comes around, I'll be fine.  You know, two, three days, you're good. 

 Q.  You served strongly in the first set.  Towards the end, nerves presumably played quite a big part. 
 NICOLE VAIDISOVA:  I think you get also tired.  You serve three sets, of course nerves kick in as well.  I don't think I served bad really until the end.  I mean, last point, of course.  I don't think my serve was a problem. 

 Q.  Did you feel her getting stronger through the match?  How did you feel she played? 
 NICOLE VAIDISOVA:  Well, she's fighting.  She's a great player obviously.  She kept hanging on there. 
 I had my chances in the third set especially.  I didn't use 'em.  So that's what tennis is all about, you know, using your chances. 

 Q.  Notwithstanding that terrible backhand volley near the end, you have a very high percentage of conversion of balls near the net, something like 90%.  Can you be at the net more?  Can you push yourself to the net more than you are? 
 NICOLE VAIDISOVA:  I think eventually, yeah, it's something I'm working on always for Wimbledon, getting to the net.  As of now, I think I'm happy with how much I'll go to the net, how much I'll use those chances.  I'm happy with that. 

 Q.  You and Ana are part of this younger generation making a breakthrough.  You could be having games like that against each other for years to come.  You have great potential, the two of you, to be successful. 
 NICOLE VAIDISOVA:  Yeah, definitely.  I think it's good also for people to see younger players coming up, see new faces, new stories, new people around.  I think it's good that we're coming out having some great games. 

 Q.  There's two younger players and two more experienced players in the semifinal.  How do you see the matchups going there? 
 NICOLE VAIDISOVA:  Since I'm out, I'm never following and I really don't care what's going to happen now.  So I don't know. 

 Q.  Do you think because of what happened today you need to start working on the mental side of things? 
 NICOLE VAIDISOVA:  Definitely there's things I still could improve.  Sure, I mean, I'm a very emotional player and person.  I'll always be.  But of course there's a limit up to it.  Something you have to work on. 

 Q.  Does that mean working with a sports psychologist more? 
 NICOLE VAIDISOVA:  I don't think so. 

 Q.  No? 
 NICOLE VAIDISOVA:  No. 

 Q.  How do you improve it, start to control those nerves? 
 NICOLE VAIDISOVA:  I think also as you get older, I think you get better at that.  But also I have my family and people around me who can help me with that. 

 Q.  You're going deep into events, losing against people getting into semis and finals.  Is it hard to look at the light at the end of the tunnel in this regard, or do you take anything encouraging away? 
 NICOLE VAIDISOVA:  I think it's a good sign that you get as far to quarters, semis.  Of course, it's a positive thing. 
 Of course, I'm disappointed right now.  It's hard to see the positive things.  But I think when I wake up tomorrow or Saturday I'll see how, you know, how great my run was here. 

 Q.  Is this the toughest loss of your career? 
 NICOLE VAIDISOVA:  No. 

 Q.  What was? 
 NICOLE VAIDISOVA:  I don't think I have that really incredibly tough loss.  Of course I'm disappointed right now, but I'm not going to go and be all heartbroken about it.  It's tennis.  It's a sport. 

 Q.  Do you think your emotions are a strength of your play or not? 
 NICOLE VAIDISOVA:  I think it can go both ways.  I think it can be my strength but it also can be my weakness. 

 Q.  When you were at 40-15, 5-3 in the third set serving for the match, were you calm or a little anxious at that point? 
 NICOLE VAIDISOVA:  Of course you get a little nervous; you're so close.  But I think at that point she had a little luck.  She served great.  Everything kind of came together and decided it. 
 Yeah, I think there was a couple shots I could have made but, you know, didn't happen. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT