SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 9, 2006
Dennis Felton
Steve Newman
Channing Toney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 COACH DENNIS FELTON:  I thought Arkansas played extremely well today, and I was actually much more pleased with our effort as a team tonight than I was just less than a week ago when we played Arkansas the first time to close out the regular season.  One thing that hurt us is we could have taken much better care of ball.  Our turnovers hurt us, and then it just got to a point in the game where I think we struggled to keep up with their explosiveness. 
 I thought the quality of shots that the teams got weren't quite as different.  Arkansas definitely got a little better quality shot than we did, but we certainly got enough high quality shots also to keep up, but we just struggled to make them and we struggled to slow them down and stop them, especially off the dribble.  They were very, very good off the dribble against us, which we knew was a big part of their strength and challenge for us, and so we struggled to slow them down as much as we'd like to.  So then it became a matter of keeping up with them, and they were just more explosive than we were today. 


 STEVE NEWMAN:  I just thought the biggest difference was our turnovers.  We were pretty, even in the first half, until we had a spurt of about three, four turnovers in a row which lead to fastbreak points and the same thing in the second half. 
 We had a stretch in the middle of the second half where that's where they really pushed the lead outs.  We turned the ball over a few times in a row. 
 If we would have just taken better care of ball, we would have had a better chance at the end of the game. 

 CHANNING TONEY:  I think turnovers was a big factor, also.  We competed well with the rebounding.  We played together as a team offensively and it just came down to turnover the ball. 
 They got good fast break opportunities and we just tried to come back and, you know, play aggressive and I think that was the main fact was the turnover part and we competed well with them. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT