FRANKLIN AMERICAN MORTGAGE MUSIC CITY BOWL: KENTUCKY VS NORTHWESTERN
December 28, 2017
Mike Hankwitz
Mick McCall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We'll hear from Mick McCall and Mike Hankwitz.  Coaches.
MICK McCALL: We're excited to be here.  It's going to be a tremendous challenge.  The people have been great.  Facilities to prepare in have been outstanding.  We're just very excited, looking forward to a great game against a great opponent.
MIKE HANKWITZ: I will back that up with any time you come to any bowl game, there's some uniqueness to it, whatnot.  Our kids have kind of embraced that, had a great time in a bunch of the events.
Also just our preparation, the way our guys do things, it's been really, really enjoyable to be able to do that with them right here in Nashville.
THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. Could you talk a little bit about defending against a team and a runningback like Benny Snell.
MICK McCALL: He's an outstanding runningback.  What adds to it is the quarterback Stephen Johnson, his ability to run.  They do some great things with unique formations, putting him in the wildcat, Benny in the wildcat.  We have tremendous respect for them.  It's going to be a great challenge.
We have seen some good runningbacks in the Big Ten.  But every offense is a little different, gives unique problems.  Kentucky gives us some unique things that we've had to deal with.
Our players, they know it's going to be a tremendous challenge to keep him under control.
Q. Mick, as you watch the tape on this defense, what did you see as far as their strengths?
MICK McCALL: I think the biggest thing is they're very athletic, long in the secondary.  They've got really, really good twitch off the edge.  Probably the best position are their linebackers.  They fly to the football.  They really trigger fast downhill.  It's going to be a real, real good challenge for us to be able to move the ball, be consistent with the offense.
They do a good job, especially with their linebackers.
Q. Mick, one of the things that Mark Stoops has said about your team is you don't beat yourselves.  Speak to that.  I'm sure having a veteran quarterback means a lot to you.
MICK McCALL: Sure, not everybody wants to hear 'to manage the game' at the quarterback position, but that is truly what it is about.  You watch the bowl games across the country, the teams with the least amount of turnovers win the football game, it seems like.  That's an important part of us, taking care of the football, doing the things we need to do.
Having a veteran quarterback, that helps tremendously to be able to do that.  That's one of our goals every week, is to have great ball security.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, coaches.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT