INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 10, 2016
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
E. BOUCHARD/J. Jankovic   
6-4, 2-6, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Tough match, but were you happier with your level today compared to last week in Madrid?  
JELENA JANKOVIC: Yeah, it's much better than last week, that's for sure.  But I think I will need more time to get back and to improve my game and to get at match toughness.   
I played well on several occasions, and I think I did pretty well in that second set.  I think mentally and as well physically I went down in that third set.  I could not -- I was getting physically tired and then mentally, as well, because I haven't been playing matches, and as well I lost a little bit of strength and just being on the court for a while.   
It's only my second match since Indian Wells, so it's been a while since I have been competing on a daily basis and just being out there.   
Like I said, it was a tough match, and, you know, I fought hard.  I played the best that I could.  But there is of course a lot of things that I can improve, I can get better at.  It's a big improvement from last week, so I just gotta keep on doing training and get better.   
 Q.  You have done it so many times in your career, coming back after injury, coming back after bad results.  Is it easier because you know you can, or is it harder because you're tired of having to come back like that?  
JELENA JANKOVIC: I mean, it's both.  I have been there.  I have been in these situations before, and I know what it takes to come back, but at the same time it's not easy because you have to start basically from zero and just, you know, go on the court and have to change certain things.  You need time in order for them to improve and get to the normal stage and then to the strength I used to have.   
So basically a month ago I could not lift my arm up.  I could not wash my hair with the right hand.  Now I'm able to serve.  And, you know, last week I served twice as less powerful than I did today, which is much better but of course I need more time.   
Like I said, a lot of practice, a lot of repetition, a lot of work in the training room, as well.  I will get back.  It's not easy, but it's doable.   
 Q.  Can you talk about you working with Ricardo Sanchez in Madrid and here?  Is that just a temporary thing or...  
JELENA JANKOVIC: Yeah, he's just coming to help me out in a couple of tournaments.  Then we'll see.   
 Q.  How did that dress come about, the kit you're wearing today?  
JELENA JANKOVIC: It's Marion Bartoli's, actually, design.  Marion Bartoli's.  It's going to be her -- you know, there is a couple of dresses that I have, and they are all kind of those prints.   
It's pretty out there, pretty colorful, pretty interesting dresses.  A little bit different to others.  I'm wearing them.   
What do you guys think?   
 Q.  Different.  
JELENA JANKOVIC: Different.  (Laughter.)   
I'm happy to wear something that's different, you know.  You can also go out of the comfort zone and the classic ones.  I like the classic, you know, as well.  But it's also nice to sometimes have a changeup and just wear something that's not really typical print for a tennis dress.   
 Q.  Just to go back on Ricardo, same thing as coming back, you have practiced with him, worked with him so many times in your career.  Why is it stopping?  Why is it starting again?  Is it in your comfort zone somehow?  
JELENA JANKOVIC: I have known him for so long.  He's basically like my father.  He knows me.  He knows my game very well.   
It's just nice to see him and have him, you know, around.  We'll see, you know.  For now it's a temporary thing.  Like I said, I have been injured, and I need, you know, quite a lot of work in order to get back.  I want to get as much help as I can as fast as possible in order to get to the shape I want to be in and the game I want to play.   
Like I said, it's a big improvement from last week.  I couldn't even play a point and I was going all over the place.  And now I'm -- it's much better, but, you know, I have a lot of ups and downs.  It's not easy when you have not competed for a while.  And I am a player who needs -- the more I play, the better I get, the more matches I play.  It's not easy.  Opponents are tough and you don't really have a chance.  Now I'm just doing step by step.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT