WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP WOMEN'S OPEN
August 14, 2009
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. JANKOVIC/S. Bammer
  6-0, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. I guess you couldn't have expected such a lopsided first set, especially after she had upset Serena yesterday. 
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Yeah, she did defeat a lot of good players in this tournament. For sure she was playing well. 
 But I had a good score against her coming into this match. I knew how to play against her, and for me it was important to start strong and to, you know, put my game out there, not let her play what she likes the best. 

 Q. What is it that she likes to do best? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC: She's a good athlete, and she can rally and she can play. She likes to play all those long points and wear you out completely. I didn't let her do that. 
 I tried to move her around and tried to dictate the points as much as I could, and that's what I did. 

 Q. How much the match tomorrow? You get Elena. What do you expect tomorrow?
 JELENA JANKOVIC: It will be for sure a difficult match. She has been playing very well this year. We had, you know, tough matches in the past. I think I won the last I don't know how many times. 
 It will be difficult for sure, but I just have to just go out there and try to play the best that I can, and we will see how things will go for me. 

 Q. What did you do well tonight? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I was very solid from the beginning. I didn't make so many errors and didn't give her anything. I was very focused, you know, just from the start. I knew that she likes to play the long points. If I get into that it can get very difficult out there. 
 I didn't want to do that. I just tried to move her and not to give her the balls where she likes to hit them. She likes to block your balls. The harder you hit, the harder she likes to bring those balls back. She can be very dangerous. 
 I'm very happy I was able to get through this match.

 End of FastScripts 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT