INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA (WOMEN)
May 7, 2009
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. KUZNETSOVA/J. Jankovic
  6-1, 7-6 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. In your words, what happened out there? Was she just playing too well?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: What was the question?   
  
  Q. In your words, in your mind, what happened out there? Was she just playing too well?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Yes, she was playing very good tennis out there. She was hitting the ball very, very well with a lot of power and deep. She, you know, didn't allow me to play my game, and especially that was the case in the first set.   
 And then I started to a little bit change the way, you know, I was playing and my tactics a little bit in the second set, but it was a little bit too late. I had some chances. I had two set points in the second and didn't take them, and then everything went her way.  
 But I didn't play from the beginning tactically well. I played what she liked, and, of course, she has more power than me. Today was her day. She was the better player. She deserved to win.   
  
  Q. In terms of build-up for the French Open, how has this week gone for you, and what do you still need to do to be ready?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I think it's great, because I got play some matches on clay. I won the tournament in Marbella and won two matches in Spain for Fed Cup and then played some matches as well in Stuttgart and here. I think I'm doing well for the preparation for the French Open, which is my main goal.   
 But really, I wanted to win here for three times in a row , and unfortunately didn't happen for me. But it's not the end of world. All I care is to enjoy my tennis and to be happy. This is the way it goes. Somebody has to lose, and today it was me.   
  
  Q. Where do you go from here now before the French?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Madrid, then a week in between for training and preparation, and then Roland Garros.   
  
  Q. What did you buy yesterday?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I bought things, you know, and I don't -- now if I start telling you the things -- I bought quite a few things, and I think I will go again today.   
 Because when you lose a match, you're not, you know, so, so happy. Nobody likes to lose. It's better to do something else and try to forget about it and make yourself happy, buy some more things.  
 The only problem is that I will maybe not be able to close my bags before I travel. It will be difficult, but I will try my best.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT