INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA (WOMEN)
May 3, 2009
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Did you have a problem with your hotel?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: No. No problem with the hotel. I'm just happy to be here. I've been staying in the same hotel for the last few years. It's good to be back.   
  
  Q. (Through translation.) Could you mention three players that you like in the draw for this tournament?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: In the men's?   
  
  Q. In the women's.   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I don't know, maybe Williams.  
  
  Q. Which one?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Both. Just depends which one is in form and which one is playing well in the moment. On clay especially, they haven't been playing much.   
 Then, I don't know. I mean, it's hard to say. When the tournaments starts, you begin to play and you see how players -- which players are in form and which players are playing well. But anything can happen.   
  
  Q. Which is your favorite player in the man draw?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Of woman?   
  
  Q. No, no. On man draw, your favorite player.   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: On clay, I mean, for me the favorite is always Nadal. You cannot go wrong with that. He wins ever tournament on clay, so he's the best one out there and a guy who's great to watch for me.   
  
  Q. He won for three times here. You can make the same?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Yeah, I will try to do that. I won it two years in a row, and I really love this place a lot. Rome is my favorite city, so I'm happy to be here.   
 I will try my best to win it for three years in a row. It would be a great result, a great achievement for me.   
  
  Q. Safina is now No. 1. But a lot of people don't consider her the real No. 1 because she never won a Grand Slam title. What do you think about the critics before of you and now of Safina?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: You know, the ranking didn't fall from the sky. She earned that ranking. She really deserves to be there, because she was playing well and had great results. The rankings don't lie.   
 She played the same as the other girls played and competed, and she is now in the moment No. 1. Nobody can take that away from here. It will always say in her biography that she -- even for a day you become No. 1 in the world, you can say, I was the No. 1 player in the world. Not many people can say that.   
 So I think it's a great achievement and a dream come true for any player. She achieve that, so big congratulations to her. With a Grand Slam or without, it's huge.  
 I think the other people, because there is always things that people are gonna talk about, You didn't win a Grand Slam, or you won. There are players who have won a Grand Slam and never came even close to being No. 1.   
 So always things about every player that you can find something bad to say. You just have to be strong and believe in yourself. At the end of the day the day, you play tennis because you like to play and have your own goals. You don't have to prove anything to anybody except yourself.   
  
  Q. Your things with your family and mother everything is better now?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Yes, things are going much better. My mother was not feeling well, and it was very hard for me to compete, you know, the last few months because I'm very emotional and very sensitive person. At the end of the day, the most important thing is health: health of myself and health of the closest ones in my family is the most important thing in life.  
 Then I don't really think about tennis. I don't think about the game. I don't think about winning and everything that goes around. I just hope and pray everything will be okay with my mother and she will be healthy.   
 Now she's here with me and she's feeling much, much better. I'm very happy about that. Then when you go on the court you can go with a smile on your face. Before that I as not the same player. I wasn't really even practicing and I don't have the motivation and my game was not the same. I was not playing good tennis. It was very difficult period for me.   
 But now everything is okay and I'm coming back. I won the tournament in Marbella, and then I won nine matches in a row and then lost just two days ago against Pennetta 6-4 in the third with a tough match.   
 So I think I'm doing much, much better and I'm improving each day and playing better tennis, and that is something that I'm really happy about.   
  
  Q. You have played against Flavia. What do you think of the final of Fed Cup? The Italian team will play here in Italy against the U.S. against the Williams sisters.   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: The Williams sisters will play?   
  
  Q. It's possible for Italy to win?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Think in the Fed Cup anything can happen, because it's a very specific competition. It's different type of pressure and everything that goes around. Some people play very, very well in the Fed Cup competition. Some people cannot cope with the pressure and bring their best game out there when they play for their country.   
 So I think Italy has been doing really great, and it shows that they're in the finals. So I think anything can happen, and the best one will win.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT