XXIX OLYMPIC GAMES
August 15, 2008
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  D. SAFINA/J. Jankovic  
6-2, 5-7, 6-3  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Jelena.   
  
  Q. Does Safin have possibilities and skills to be No. 1 in the world one day?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: You know, she's been playing great tennis the last couple of months. She's in great form in the moment. And she has won like a few tournaments. So the results show she's really playing well and she deserves to be in the top of the woman's game in this moment, because a lot of us are injured and not playing very well, not in a great form. So she has a chance to become No. 1 or very close to No. 1.   
 That's all I can say about her. But it's not a question of becoming No. 1 now. The year is quite long and we still have a lot of tournaments to play until the end of the year. So it will be a battle.   
  
  Q. The match went back and forth. Your comments on the match tonight.   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: It was a tough match for me because I really tried my best, you know, what I could do today. I have to be realistic. I'm not -- obviously I'm not in the greatest form. I'm suffering with injuries. I gave everything I had, you know, today.   
 She's obviously a lot stronger than me. She has a lot more endurance. It's a big difference in this moment. But it gives me a lot of motivation to start working harder, to improve my physical condition and overall my tennis game. So it's a good learning experience. Of course, it's tough to lose, but you have to learn from it, analyze what I've done wrong and keep going forward.   
  
  Q. Can you explain how disappointed you are with the result?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Yeah, I'm disappointed. Nobody likes to lose. But it's sometimes very tough to expect from yourself, you know, to go over your limit. You cannot expect miracles to happen when you have some problem. I've been taking injections before I went on court just to be able to perform, otherwise I couldn't play. When I train, I cannot move back and forth, you know, left and right because I have a lot of pain. When I go to play a match, I take an injection so I don't feel the pain.   
 For me, just being able to go even this far, it's great. But, you know, obviously I want to get healthy so that I can start to work on my game and on my physical condition to become a better player overall.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT