XXIX OLYMPIC GAMES
August 13, 2008
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  J. JANKOVIC/D. Cibulkova  
7-5, 6-1  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How did you feel you played and how is the calf holding up?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: It was a tough match for sure overall for me because I was playing against an opponent who is really not easy to play. She doesn't give you any free points. So everything that you do, you really have to earn it.   
 I think I started pretty well. You know, I was hitting the ball quite solid. But I think she liked that style of play. And then I kind of changed my game a little bit, you know, my tactics. I added some variety in my game. And I think it helped. I'm glad to win in two sets. It's a good win for me, despite injury.   
 And the calf is doing much better. I received, you know, some treatment and I did something before the match, you know, so I feel less pain during the match. So I was able to play without so much pain. So it's good for me.  
  
  Q. This tournament is at a very high level, but you play every day. Is it something difficult for you to play every day against tough players?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Yes, it's part of the job. That's how the tournament is and our schedule. We have to be in the best shape as possible to play day to day and be in the best form. That's why we try to train as hard as possible to be able to play day in, day out, and be able to produce your good tennis and be in good form.   
 I feel good at the moment. I only have the injury. So that is my only worry. But I'm not tired. I feel quite fresh. So I still have some, you know, fuel left for the rest of the tournament.   
  
  Q. The crowds here are pretty lively. They make noise if a rally gets going. You seemed to be a little bit upset about that yesterday. What do you think about the crowds here?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: No, the crowd is quite enthusiastic. They love tennis. You know, sometimes they get quite excited during the point, which is quite distracting for us, you know, for me and for my opponent. But it's very difficult to explain to them in Chinese or I don't know how to do it. During the point, we are really fighting hard, you know, to play each ball, and you hear such a loud applause during, and you kind of get confused, which is not usual to what we are used to. But what we can do? You have to try to stay as focused as possible during those times.   
 Are a lot of players complaining about that?   
  
  Q. Hewitt thought it was great. Roger liked it, too. They get very excited with when first serves go into the net.   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: They go, Ooh. They're quite sad you didn't make the ball over the net.   
  
  Q. Overall do you like the enthusiasm?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: No, I think it's much better to have some kind of atmosphere. It's better than have quiet fans that don't even applaud. So it's great to see the people that are quite alive and quite out there. They like the tennis. They like to watch us all compete.   
 But only this part, you know, for me sometimes it's a little bit distracting. But other than that, it's fine.   
  
  Q. Look ahead to your next match, your thoughts on that one.   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Who am I playing?   
  
  Q. I think you've got Dinara.   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I don't look too far ahead, especially with my injury (laughter). I don't know if I'm going to be on court, what I'm gonna do.   
 Safina, she has been in great form the last few months. She's playing some great tennis. I lost to her a couple weeks ago when I just came back from my knee injury. So I really have to play my best tennis if I want to win against her because she's quite strong at the moment.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT