XXIX OLYMPIC GAMES
August 11, 2008
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  J. JANKOVIC/C. Black
6-3, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. How does the calf feel? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC: It was quite swollen during the match and I tried my best out there. You know, it was my first match of this event. It's quite special to be playing, you know, first day as the No. 1 officially. So I was quite excited about that. 
 But I had some problems, but I managed to finish the match. So this is the most important thing. I will see. You know, I will see what the doctors and receive some treatment and see how I will feel for tomorrow. 

 Q. Is it easy for you to be concentrated only on the next match and not to think about the No. 1 or anything else? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC: No, I'm just thinking about myself. You know, I'm excited to be surrounded by, you know, the best athletes in the world. But also I'm here to play my tournament. So when it comes to, you know, my matches, I'm only focused on that. I'm here to play; I'm not here to be a tourist. 
 But, of course, when I have some free time, I like to go and cheer for my teammates, you know, how can I call them. We will see. It's nice to be here and play the Olympic Games. 

 Q. The situation with the calf is the same as it was before; you're just going to wait and see and make a decision later if you're going to play or not? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Yes, I will see overnight. I will now receive some treatment and see with the doctors what is the plan, what I need to do. 
 It's hard, you know, when you have some pain and when you're thinking about the calf, you cannot really a hundred percent be focused on the match. That is now my biggest opponent, my biggest problem. And, you know, what can I do? Injuries are a part of the sport. You know, we try our best to recover as much as we can, if it's possible. 
 But, anyway, we will see how everything is going on tomorrow. 

 Q. Does your red dress have a special meaning?
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Yeah, that dress, actually I was involved in the designing process. It was kind of my idea. Did you see the flowers here? It was inspired by, you know, when you receive the medal, you have this on your head. How do you call that? 

 Q. A wreath. 
 JELENA JANKOVIC: When you receive it, you put it there. I thought it's a cool idea. It's a special dress for the Olympics. So it's quite cool. I received a lot of compliments from the girls and from the people around here. 
 I like it. It's a little bit different to what I used to wear. But it's only like you get so wet from sweating. This is not so nice (smiling). Too much humidity. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT