DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 15, 2015
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. JANKOVIC/T. Babos
  6‑3, 4‑6, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Is this a late Valentine's Day gift?  
JELENA JANKOVIC:   Valentine's?   I don't have a Valentine.   You know, my Prince racquet is my Valentine.   
I'm very happy to get a win under my belt.   It's my first win of the season, and it's nice to kind of get that monkey off my back.   
You know, like I said in the interview, I have been suffering with my back injury, and, you know, it has been, you know, a process overall just getting back in form and just starting to practice, and, you know, losing some weight.   I was kind of overweight in Australia.   I didn't have enough time to prepare, and I'm fighting hard, you know.   
I need my confidence back and just overall playing my game, you know.   I train very well, but then playing the match is different.  
I was fighting hard today, and there was times, you know, where, you know, here and there I could play well, but then there are a lot of things I have to improve and get better.  
   
 Q.   How long do you think till you reach your...   
JELENA JANKOVIC:   It depends, you know.   I just have to stay positive and just keep working.   You know, I think, you know, that my main goal is to get as many matches as possible.  
The more I compete, the better I start feeling out there, you know, the more confident.   Then I don't have to think as much.   When you don't play so many matches you are overthinking or you don't know what to do at certain times.   You overthink, you overanalyze.   You just become too analytical, and it's against your favor.   It doesn't do any justice.   
So I just have to go out there and play freely and go after my shots and believe in myself.   That's what I have to do on the court.  
   
 Q.   Tenth appearance in Dubai.   
JELENA JANKOVIC:   I love playing in Dubai. Playing Dubai is one of my favorite places to play at, and I have done very well here in the past, and, you know, I have my residence here.   I come, you know, quite often during the year.   
I love it here.   I love the weather.   I love, you know, pretty much everything about it.  
You know, what can I say?   Hopefully I can do well at this tournament.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT