INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA (WOMEN)
May 17, 2008
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions.

 Q. When did you know that Sharapova wasn't going to play?
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Well, I arrived around, I don't know, 1:00, and I was getting ready to practice, to warm up for the match, and the supervisor told me that she called and said that she has some injury and she's not able to play the match. 

 Q. What was your reaction? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I wanted to play. I was ready to play the match, and I was ready for another challenge, another tough match for me. 
 But unfortunately she has some injury and she's not able to go on the court. And it happens, because we have really tough matches, very intense matches. 
 Our bodies cannot take it sometimes. She just has to recover and hopefully feel better for the French Open. It's disappointing for me. I wanted to play her, for sure. 

 Q. (From Italian) What about your preparation for tomorrow's match apart from your training today? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I will -- I practiced for one hour. I will just rest, because I'm also very tired from yesterday's match, and just try to be ready for tomorrow. 
 I will not do much. Have a massage now after the press conference and eat well and relax. 

 Q. (From Italian) Are you planning on training tomorrow before the match?
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Yeah, I will do the same routine like I did the other days: Warm up before my match and play the match. 

 Q. Is this the first time in your career that you reach the final without playing in the semis?
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I think yes. I didn't have much of these retirements in my career. I usually played all the semifinals. I don't remember that I -- somebody retired to me in the semifinals. It's very rare that this happens. 

 Q. Which player do you prefer to play in the final: The young French one or the more experienced Russian?
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Doesn't matter. I will concentrate on myself, on what I have to do. I been playing quite well. I only have been sick, so that was my only problem. 
 I will just enjoy it. I'm really happy to be in the final and I have another chance, a big opportunity to win, to defend my title, so I'm happy for that. I will try to play my best tennis. 

 Q. Are you going to watch it on Nole?
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Yeah, I'm watching it. I will watch. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT