INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA (WOMEN)
May 16, 2008
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  J. JANKOVIC/V. Williams
5-7, 6-2, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. What did your coach say to you after the second set? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC: My coach told me that I need to hit my first serve in, to try to keep hitting the first serve, because in the first set I was really struggling with Group my serve. I had a really low percentage, and she took advantage of that. 
 I wasn't really holding any service games in the first set, and then that changed in the second. I tried to go for it a little bit more, and I tried to play a little bit more aggressive, and it paid off. 

 Q. In the beginning of the third set did you have a feeling that she was tired? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I don't -- I didn't know how she felt physically, because I wasn't thinking about her. I just was thinking about my game, how I'm feeling, what I have to do in order to win. 
 She was up 2-Love in the third and I never gave up. I just wanted to play one point at a time and just be strong out there, and I did it somehow. 

 Q. This afternoon you play against Venus, and tomorrow probably Sharapova. Do you think there is too much difference between two parts of the draw? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Sometimes this can happen. It's the luck of the draw. You cannot choose which side you're going to go. 
 Obviously the lower -- the bottom half is much tougher than the top, but sometimes it happens. I mean, I just have to try to play my best. I have really great players to play, so I will try my best. Hopefully I can do it. 

 Q. (From Italian) What do you think you did technically that made you beat Venus today? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Technically? First of all, I've beaten her many, many times. Now I think it's, I don't know how many times, maybe four times before. I know how to play against her, and I know that I always have to give my best if I want to beat her. 
 She's really strong, and I wanted to attack her as much as possible, put pressure on her, and do the right things. I got some advice from my coach what to do, but I don't really have to talk about it. 

 Q. How much are you surprised about the Serena retirement?
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Yes, that was -- today was the biggest problem, because we didn't have much time to get ready for the match. We were all in a hurry, in a panic. I didn't have time to eat before my match, so I took only a few bites and I was running to put my clothes and get ready for the match. 
 That's why the first set I was really stressed a little bit, and then as the time went on I felt better. Because all of a sudden Serena said that she's not going on court, that she has some injury, and we didn't know what was happening. 
 They told us we have to be ready for a 4:00 match. It's a surprise, but she has some problem, and what can we do? 

 Q. Do you feel that Italian public wanted you to win? There was many applause when win a point. 
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I don't know, but I really had great support from the Italian crowd. The atmosphere is really great, and the fans get involved in the match. You can see it gets quite noisy. So I really enjoyed the whole experience, and I look forward to playing again tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT