INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA (WOMEN)
May 14, 2008
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  J. JANKOVIC/F. Pennetta
6-1, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. How was the start?
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I thought I played quite well in the first set. I was playing very aggressive and was dominating most of the points. 
 But then around 1-All in the second set I had problems with my health. I had problems breathing and I couldn't get enough oxygen and I didn't feel good on the court. 
 But then after the games went and I started to a little bit feel better, and at the end of the second set I started to come back a little bit, you know, to play my game and finished the match in two sets, which was good for me, because I didn't want to be there for three sets. 

 Q. You spent Saturday and Sunday in hospital?
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Yes. I got sick in Berlin, and I went back home because I wasn't feeling well. I was in the hospital like I said. I was getting I have and I didn't feel good at all. I had no energy and I couldn't get up. 
 But, you know, I'm now starting to feel better. I'm still on antibiotics and I'm taking medicine. I just want to be healthy and I want to enjoy the matches and not thinking about health. 
 I want to play my game and have fun on the court, and like this it's very difficult for me. But did my best today, and I'm happy with the win.

 Q. Could we have your opinion about Henin retires? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Yes. I heard that in the news today on CNN and Sky News, and I was very surprised by her retirement because she's doing very well and she's still young. She's great for the game. 
 We will, you know, miss her. She achieve so much in her career. She was a great champion, and that was her decision. I just wish her the best of luck in the future in her life.

 Q. Do you think she could be annoyed by tennis, or there is a time when a player could be annoyed?
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Maybe. It's very difficult to comment on that because it's all individual. Maybe she lost her motivation and she was not hungry anymore to do well to win matches, Grand Slams, big tournaments. 
 Maybe it can be sometimes very difficult, you know, many years to be playing and traveling around the world. Being there, being at the top level, it can be very difficult. 
 She has done very well so far, and I was very surprised that all of a sudden she announced her retirement. 

 Q. (From Italian) Your Serbian colleague lost today. This maybe will upset the draw a little bit. How do you think it will affect it? Will to give you more of a chance, and the other good players, to have success in the tournament?
 JELENA JANKOVIC: She was in the top and I'm in the bottom half, so if I could play her it would be in the final. There are so many great players in the draw, I'm just focused on myself. I will play one match at a time and we will see. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT