PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 18, 2008
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  What are you sick with? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  I got a cold and I think my mom had it for a couple of days and I think I picked it up from her. 

 Q.  Oh, really? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  So my nose is a little bit runny and my eyes are a little bit, kind of watery, and this morning I had sore throat.  So I'm not feeling that great.  But tomorrow I have a day off so I can at least recover as much as I can and be ready for my quarterfinal. 

 Q.  Didn't seem it affect you on the court today, or did it? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  I didn't want it show it, but I felt a little bit slow on the court.  I didn't feel that strong.  I felt a bit weak out there.  I was trying my best and I was trying to get through this match so that I can just feel better in the next few days.  That will help. 

 Q.  Did you feel the cold and all that coming on over the last couple days? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  Yeah, I did feel it coming on the last couple of days.  I was feeling a little bit cold, and I was feeling like I'm going to get a fever.  But I didn't, and then this morning, I woke up, I could barely speak. 
 You can see my voice is a bit strange.  It's not as usual.  But it's not that bad.  I mean, I have to just keep -- I will rest a little bit tomorrow and just have a light hit, and then I will feel better. 
 It's just a cold.  It's nothing.  My mom had it for three or four days.  She's now finished with it, and I just started, so... 

 Q.  Sounds sexier. 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  Sounds sexier?  No.  I want it recover.  I don't want to sound sexy.  I just want to feel heathy. 
 No, I don't know.  Maybe that's true.  Actually, I've been getting a lot of guys lately.  A lot of them are coming.  I don't know why.  I guess it's my voice. 

 Q.  Let me ask you real quick, at this tournament you kind of struggled before this year.  I think the record was, like, 3-5. 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  Yeah.  I never played so well here in the desert, for some reason.  I would play so well the week before, in Dubai.  I would play semis and finals in Dubai, and then I would come here and couldn't get my rhythm.  It's the desert and balls fly. 
 I don't know.  I just never had a good result here, but hopefully this year will change.  I already did better than I did all the years I played here. 
 It's one of my worst tournament results.  Even from last year, this was the tournament I did -- I lost in the round of 16.  All the other tournaments was semis, finals, and so it's just here. 
 So I have to -- I'm improving.  So I'm in the quarterfinal.  I made a record here but don't want to stop.  I want to continue. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT