AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 16, 2008
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions? 

 Q.  Second match you still couldn't find your rhythm.  Was it wind problem today? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  Yeah, the conditions were quite tough today.  It was very windy and very difficult to place the balls where you want them.  But I tried my best, and I was a little bit tired after the first set. 
 I got a little bit stiff, but I managed to get through this match and win it.  So that's the most important.  For me, it's most important just to try to get my rhythm and lift up my game each match, so that's very important. 

 Q.  What was the problem?  You called in the trainer. 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  I hurt.  Little bit of shoulder stiffness.  I don't know, for some reason this year I had so many injuries and so many parts of my body are hurting.  I don't know why is that, but I'm trying to get back in shape, so hopefully it will go away. 

 Q.  Razzano, the next opponent, what do you think? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  I played her in Toronto last year and I beat her I think in two sets, but it will be a tough match.  I have to play I think for sure better than in my first two matches. 
 I have to lift up the level of my tennis, and we'll see how -- I'll try my best. 

 Q.  What do you think of the Romanian girl? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  I have never played against her.  I didn't know how she plays, and it obviously can be very difficult sometimes.  She's a very crafty player.  She hits -- gives a lot of jerk on the ball and doesn't give you much pace. 
 Especially playing a lot of slices in this wind it's not easy, but I tried to stay focused and to do the best that I can out there. 

 Q.  Do you feel better now? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  I feel very tired, for some reason, you know.  I feel very, very exhausted, but I'm trying to just stay relaxed.  Most important thing is to be healthy.  I have been having problems with my body, so I'll try to feel the best as possible, and to recover, have many treatments, massages, and be ready for my upcoming match. 

 Q.  Looks like injury in Perth is gone now completely? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  It's gone completely, but other parts of my body are suffering.  Maybe everything else is compensating because of that muscle, so it still -- you know, I've been having sore muscles all over my body.  Especially playing the first match three hours doesn't help, so it's not easy.  But we all go through this. 

 Q.  What were you complaining to the referee?  What was the problem?  We couldn't hear it. 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  It can be very kind of difficult at times when we don't have a challenge and there's some close calls and then the umpire doesn't really see the balls and just goes along with the linespeople.  So it can be difficult, because that point, that certain point, can make a huge difference.  But you have to forget about it and just keep playing and focus on the next points. 

 Q.  Good luck with the next match. 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  Thank you. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT