U.S. OPEN
August 31, 2007
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions.   
  
  Q.  Were you worried during the match?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  Yeah, I was a little bit worried.  Especially in the beginning, I came to the court like I was going to a picnic.  I was so careless.  I thought that I will have -- I underestimated my opponent because I thought she was a junior, I thought I will have an easy job.  That was a big mistake for me.   
 I think that my opponent was playing unbelievably today.  She was very solid.  I was very surprised the way she was moving and getting all these balls back.  She gave me a really hard time, but I managed to somehow stay positive out there and managed to win in three sets.   
  
  Q.  How long did it take you to sort of get yourself going the way you wanted to be?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  I was very frustrated with myself, especially after I lost the first set.  I was thinking, What's happening with me?  I need to, you know, get myself together, gather my thoughts and start from the beginning, forget what happened and just keep going forward and stay positive.   
 I knew that the girl will let down at some point because she cannot play the whole match without making any mistakes and running from side to side, making some unbelievable shots.  I don't think she can do that for three sets in a row.   
 So I was hanging there.  I'm obviously the player with the more experience, but she gave me a really hard time and I was really surprised how well she played.  But very lucky to get through, for sure.  Gave me a scare (smiling).   
  
  Q.  Your next opponent, you have a very good record against her, 5-1.   
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  Yeah, we played I think in the last two tournaments, in California, that I played.  Last time was in Toronto.  Before that we played in L.A., so two weeks in a row.   
 I played her a lot of times, so I know how to play against her.  She's left-handed.  She can be very tricky.  It's always very different when you have to play a left-handed player.  But at least I know her game.  The last two rounds, I didn't know my opponents.  That was a lot more difficult because when you go to the court, I'm already down Love-3, already I lost some games, and I'm trying to figure out how I have to play because I don't know my opponents.   
 The next round will be a different story.  I know the girl I'm playing against.  I know what I'm supposed to do.   
  
  Q.  Did you see any of Novak's match?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  I saw a little bit when I was in the gym waiting for my match.  Great comeback for him.  I'm very proud that he won.  We both survived today.  We had a tough challenge.  We got through.   
  
  Q.  This is big news in Serbia.  Ana was saying people at home were watching from day to night.  Are you getting any feedback from home?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  Yeah, it's not now they're watching; they've been watching for a year now or more.  They follow our matches whenever we play, day or night.  It's amazing, people wake up at 3 in the morning, they watch our matches.  This is what happened before when they had soccer games or basketball games, and now it's become tennis matches that people like to watch and support us.   
 It means a lot to us when we know that people back at home are really supporting us and want the best for us.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT