ROGERS CUP PRESENTED BY AMERICAN EXPRESS
August 18, 2007
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions please. 

 Q.  Three days ago I asked you if you were ready to go to the final, and you are in the final now? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  Yeah.  You asked me, yeah, a long time ago, and I said I have a lot of hard work to do before I get there.  And I don't really like to look too far ahead.  But I'm really happy, and I made it to the final. 
 Tomorrow, I have a great match against No. 1 player in the world, and it will be very exciting for me. 

 Q.  You talked outside about your record against her, head-to-head and how difficult it's been.  What has been the difference in your opinion in those matches? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  Well, I really don't know.  I've lost so many times against her.  I never beat her.  So maybe I can do it tomorrow, some day in the future, who knows.  But I have nothing to lose. 
  We've had a lot of tough matches, except at the French Open, where she beat me two sets.  But the other times I always lost 6-4 in the third, and few points deciding here and there. 
 But I just tried to hanging there -- hang in there, play aggressive.  It will be very important for me to serve well.  Not like today, but I'm just enjoying the game, have fun. 

 Q.  On your match today in the first set you were leading it, then it fell apart a little.  What happened there? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  Yeah, it was the serve, that was the biggest problem, because I just didn't serve well at all.  And in that first set I had a lot of second serves which she took advantage of and also double faults. 
 I didn't feel confident with my serve at all.  I mean, it was not the greatest thing, and it was very, very frustrating for me to lose that set.  Because I felt everything was under control, I was controlling the points, dictating.  But then the serve completely let me down, and I just didn't hold anything.  And then she played some great games on her serve and the whole set went away. 
 But I tried to stay positive.  And it was very tough for me to accept that.  You know, I knew that I could have been in the locker room an hour ago, and I'm sitting there fighting and very hard and hanging in the match. 
 But it was very important for me just to forget about it, that set, and just keep playing.  Stay aggressive and try to improve a little bit on the serve.  Make a lot more first serves in the court so she cannot have a look at my second serve.  So that's what I did, and really happy with the win. 

 Q.  On the rallies, the last two sets were high caliber tennis.  I mean there were a lot of good rallies, so maybe a little comment on your play and also on her play? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  Yeah, I think she played a great match.  She was very solid and really moving well and controlling the points.  And I think that we both played very well from the back.  And you know, like quite precise and opening the court and a lot of great points.  Very exciting for the fans. 
 And I felt very, very comfortable from the back of the court.  But just the only problem with myself was my serve.  That was the only part of my game that I wasn't happy.  The rest was great and a lot of exciting tennis, and I think that the fans really enjoyed it.  It was a great match. 

 Q.  I guess for you, well, one week from the start of the US Open, to measure yourself tomorrow against the No. 1 player in the world, who is going to be the favorite, obviously, in New York.  Is that a good way to prepare to see where you are? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  Yeah, to see where I'm at.  And maybe I can wait for her at the US Open.  And just scare her a little bit now, and then we'll see (laughing).  No, I'm just kidding. 
 I just look forward to playing against her.  She's the better player, for sure.  She's No. 1, and there is nothing I could say, you know.  All the credit, all the compliments about her.  And I'll just try to play my best, and we'll see how I can go. 

 Q.  You think you want to -- like Novak won in Montreal? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  Maybe I can do that, you know.  I was little bit behind.  They won all these titles and I'm like oh, it's my turn now (laughing).  It would be nice.  They're already telling me, oh, you know, that I'm a little bit behind.  But I already won four titles, actually five with my Wimbledon mixed doubles.  But they're already if you don't win a title in two weeks already, oh, it's been a long time, you know?  What are you doing (laughing)? 
 So I'm like, no, it's just great to be in the final.  I'm just excited and just having a lot of fun. 

 Q.  Justine had a pretty short game today, you had a pretty long one.  So do you think she has an advantage going into tomorrow? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  I don't know.  I really don't know.  She has a lot of advantages (laughing).  But like I said, you know, I've never beaten her before, and I don't know how to do that, but I will just somehow during the match try to figure out a way.  And nothing is impossible, you know. 
 She is the one that I had the trouble with.  It's very difficult for me to play against her.  But I've been close a few times and we'll see, have fun, and maybe it can go my way. 

 Q.  I just want to ask you, is there any injury concern?  Because I saw that you were stretching and moving around the court.  Any injury concerns? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  No, no, except that I cut my knee a bit.  And it was like a little bit of blood, but other than that, I'm fine (laughing). 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT