ROGERS CUP PRESENTED BY AMERICAN EXPRESS
August 17, 2007
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  The point to go up 5-2 was like an incredible point.  What's it like to win a point like that?  Point of the tournament? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  Yeah, it was an amazing point.  I got some of the balls that I didn't expect, you know, to get them myself.  It was amazing.  And you know, I was just, you know, trying to -- I never give up, you know.  I think that if you don't try, you'll not make it. 
 So I tried and I was glad that I won that point, because it was very important to go up 5-2.  You know, with these windy conditions you never know what can happen. 

 Q.  And so the windy conditions, did that affect you a lot or more than her?  Or do you think you've handled it better than she did? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  I don't know.  I think it's tough for both of the players.  We were, you know, both struggling a little bit because with this kind of windy conditions, the balls are not going quite where you want them to go.  And especially in the serve, when you toss the ball, you have a little bit of difficulties. 
 But my main focus was on the movement, to really move my feet and try to get behind the ball the best as possible, and really be focused out there.  Watch the ball carefully because it's moving everywhere, so you really have to be focused.  And you cannot let your concentration go down. 

 Q.  How are you feeling from yesterday?  Your stomach - are you feeling better? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  Yeah, I took a medicine before I went on court and just for precaution, I didn't want to have the same like yesterday.  And it's not the best thing, but I felt fine during my match.  I didn't have any problems, and I just played the game. 

 Q.  And yesterday you played a rather late match.  And today the second match, so earlier than yesterday.  What do you do in between them?  Do you try to get as much sleep as possible, or do you workout? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  Yeah, I didn't really get much sleep, because I was -- we came back home last night very late, and then I woke up very early because I needed to come here.  It's a long drive from our hotel. 
 But I was -- I felt fine.  I didn't feel tired on the court.  I was just trying to play my game, I wasn't even thinking about that I had problems with my stomach yesterday or if I'm tired.  I just wanted -- you know, I think if you think in that way, Oh, I'm tired, you know, then your head starts to -- you start to even feel tired.  And if you stay positive out there, you say I can do this, I can win this match and just stay positive and enjoy the game, then you can do it. 

 Q.  You were talking about the wind earlier.  During the second set, you seemed frustrated because you made two double faults.  You could see it was on the wind and you were just trying to put your serve.  So my question is how difficult is it?  Is it getting like worse day by day, the wind factor? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  Today was the strongest, you know, that I have ever experienced.  Because I only played my matches at night, and in the nighttime it was not that bad.  It was windy, but not as bad as it was today. 
 And I was struggling with my serve because the wind was very strong.  And then I would toss it up and then it would go to the side or whatever.  And I was struggling to put it in the box, you know.  I made in a few games I made two double faults in a row, and that's not the best thing.  You know, I almost give her the whole game away with my double faults. 
 But I didn't let that -- I was a little bit frustrated, but I just tried somehow to stay positive and just come back and focus on the next point and just play the game. 

 Q.  A couple of words about tomorrow's match with the semifinal with Golovin.  Did you expect Golovin in the semifinal before? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  You never know.  This is tennis, and you cannot really expect somebody to win.  Especially with these conditions anything can happen. 
 Golovin has played some great tennis, and she's a great player.  It will be a tough match for me.  She has beaten good players this week and in the past.  So I just will have to come out strong and just try to play my game, play aggressive and go for it. 

 Q.  Yan Zi is the 169th ranked player in the world.  Just advanced to the semifinals.  I'm just wondering -- 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  Did she win that match? 

 Q.  Bartoli just withdrew. 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  Oh. 

 Q.  As a player is that kind of exciting to have an underdog like that in the semifinals? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  Yeah, it's always exciting to see some new faces some new personalities.  You know, it's nice, you know, to see the big names come through, but it's also nice to see, you know, some other girls, other players do well, too.  So people can see the game and can see many different players not like just in the men's always Federer, Federer, Federer winning everything.  Maybe let somebody else win some tournaments, too, would be fun. 
 But with the women's game, it's more close, and you cannot just pick one winner.  It's always a chance, you know, depending on the certain day who can perform better.  That's how it is. 

 Q.  Is it sometimes dangerous to play an opponent like that who has nothing to lose, and you don't really know too much about them? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  Yeah, it can be dangerous.  Because they just go out there without fear, without because they have nothing to lose.  Even if they lose 6-0, 6-0, it's all right for them.  For you, you can only lose.  If you win, you're suppose d to do that.  And if you lose, it's very, very bad loss for you. 
 But you're not thinking that way.  You just go out there and you want to play your game.  Doesn't matter who is on the other side of the net, and you don't care what the ranking of the girl is, you just want to focus and you want to beat everybody. 

 Q.  What do you think of the on-court coaching? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  On-court coaching, I think it's great.  But I really don't know why they are doing that.  If you cannot do that at the US Open, so why do you do it in this tournament before?  And then you go to play the Grand Slam and you cannot have this kind of help from the coach? 
 So why do you get used to something like that and then when you have to play the Grand Slam, you don't have?  And if you're getting used to it in this tournament and you tend to use your coach after every set or whenever you need it, then you'll be when you play the Grand Slam and you cannot get any help, you'll be maybe -- it will be more difficult. 
 But I haven't used my coach yet.  I'm just here with my sparring partner.  And I like it to do by myself and just try to find a way to win somehow. 

 Q.  So why do you think it's good, why do you like it? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  No, I think it's good for the other players.  I just watch them, and I have fun, you know, seeing the other players get some advice, you know (smiling).  I think it makes the game a lot better because I think when you are watching the game from a side, from the stands, you see the game a lot better than when you are playing in it. 
 So I think the coach can give some advice to a player.  The level of the game goes up, and it's better for the fans to see.  And they can also learn when the fans who are watching from on the TV, they can, you know, see some advices that the coaches are giving and learn more about the game. 

 Q.  Do you think there will come a time where there will be coaching at every event including Grand Slams? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  I really don't know.  You know, it's not my decision, you know, to make something like that.  The WTA's working really hard on this.  And we will see.  Now it's an experiment.  They're just using this to see if the players like it or not.  But I think it's a good thing. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT