ROGERS CUP PRESENTED BY AMERICAN EXPRESS
August 16, 2007
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









    THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Jelena, please. 

 Q.  You seem very strong, are you ready to play the finals? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  No, I'm not really looking at the finals yet.  I'm only in the quarterfinals, and I think I have a very tough opponent.  Is it Razzano? 
 THE MODERATOR:  Yes, Razzano. 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  Yeah, she's very tough.  And I just look forward to playing against her, and I hope, you know, that I can play at least better than I did today.  And hopefully, every match I can keep improving and feeling more confident. 

 Q.  Physically, you're still strong?  You're okay? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  Yeah, I'm okay.  Except in the middle of the second set I started to have pain in my stomach.  I had like knives, you know, like knives, like somebody putting knives in it.  And I was little bit struggling.  And it's quite bloated now, and I can be honest, I think, I could be getting like a woman's things.  I cannot lie.  So it's quite normal. 
 You know, I was lucky to finish the match quickly.  It helped me, because if I stayed longer on the court it would be difficult for me. 

 Q.  Is health sometimes a worry?  This is your 21st tournament of the year.  And a person like Justine Henin has played half that amount.  I'm just wondering is that a concern for you, and have you played this much in the past? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  No, it's my -- you know, I never played actually this many matches.  I think last year I won maybe 30 matches and the score was 30-something.  Now this year I played even half the year more than I, you know, I played in two years.  So it's been, you know, something different that I did. 
 Of course, I didn't expect to win so many matches and to play this match.  But I think I've done quite well, and it's been a great year so far for me. 
 I will play a lot less in the second half of the season.  I don't want to play like I did in the first half, because it has been too much.  And I don't think my body can hold up.  And I just want to try to play the best that I can in the biggest tournaments.  And of course, it's very important for me.  I would love to do well at the US Open. 

 Q.  Obviously, this tournament is a tune-up for the US Open for you and many other players.  Are you concerned that you might be fatigued going into the US Open?  Or do you enjoy having that, you feel like you're in a rhythm playing this much? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  No, I'm a player who likes to play as many matches as possible before coming into a big one, and it helps me with my confidence.  And of course, playing a lot of matches you get the right rhythm.  You get this fighting spirit, because I am not a player who likes to practice like for one month before going into a major.  That's not me.  And I don't play well when I do that. 
 But after I finish this tournament, I will go to New York, and I will have one week off before I start the Open.  So I'll practice and I'll prepare and do the right thing so I come out fresh and ready to play. 

 Q.  You said that you do wish that you played better.  What did you find it was your weakness on the court, and what would you like to improve for your next game? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  Yeah, I would like to improve on my serve.  Of course, it's one of the weakest parts of my game.  And it was little bit difficult today because of the wind.  And the balls were a little bit, especially when I'm against the wind, it's more tough.  And doesn't make me -- make my job easier playing against Bammer who is a left-hand player.  And she hits also kind of spins and doesn't really give me a lot of rhythm.  But I did the best that I could. 
 Of course, the win is the win, and I'm happy to win in two sets.  You know, you can always get better for sure.  You'll never play a perfect match, so I just look forward to keep improving and getting better and better. 

 Q.  Did the fireworks at the end surprise you a bit? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  Yeah, I was like are those for me (smiling).  It was nice, you know.  It's quiet out there, I was having like this pain in my stomach and then I saw it, and I felt a little bit better after (smiling).  But it was great.  It's nice to see something like that. 

 Q.  Did you feel support from the fans today?  Did that make a difference at all? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  Yeah, I always appreciate the support from fans.  It means a lot to me.  And playing these night matches are quite exciting.  Having a lot of people come out is always great.  You don't want to play a night match when there is few people watching.  That's no fun.  And when you have a lot of supporters, of course, on your side it's always great.  So I really appreciate that. 

 Q.  The last two days it looks as if you're finding it easy out there this week.  Do you feel as if you're in form and things are going for you? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  Yeah, I'm starting to practice, actually.  I'm here with my sparring partner.  I'm just, you know, before I came here a few days, I was working very hard and I actually got like sore muscles. 
 I'm just trying to get in the best shape as possible.  Of course, going into the US Open, it's very important.  And every match that I play, I try to improve on my game and just feel more comfortable out there. 
 It's little bit, like I said, it's difficult with the wind, because the balls kind of go all over the place, and you cannot sometimes hit it where you want it.  But I am trying my best.  It is the same for me, and for my opponent on the other side. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT