AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2007
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions in English?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  You of didn't seem to be quite with it today.  Was it your mistakes or did Serena but pressure on you.   
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  I think it was both.  I just think that I was quite slow today.  I wasn't moving as well.  Maybe because I'm tired from all these matches, but I think Serena played quite solid and she was not making any like many mistakes.   
 I tried my best, but it was just not my day today.  Not good enough.   
  
  Q.  Did you the rain delay upset your momentum at all?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  No.  But I just felt like from the beginning of the match I couldn't find my rhythm.  I wasn't a hitting a clean ball.  It was quite humid.  The balls were quite heavy and her shots were coming at a fast speed.  I just couldn't get used to it and get my timing.  Felt really slow on the court.  I just wasn't there, so...   
 But all the credit to her.  She did well and good luck in the next rounds.   
  
  Q.  Is she playing as good as you've seen her play?  How far is she off her top form do you think?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  I don't know, but she played really well today.  She was serving well.  Whenever she needed points she served to save the breakpoints and all that.   
 But she was solid hitting some pretty hard shots, and -- but I just didn't do what I was supposed to do, and I made it easier for her.   
  
  Q.  What were you supposed to do?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  Sorry?   
  
  Q.  What were you supposed to do?  What was the plan?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  I was not hitting it deep at all.  I was hitting quite short because I think I was late on the shot.  I think my timing was wrong.  It was also service not too good.   
 I mean everything was off today.  Nothing went my way, but I tried the best that I could.  I was fighting.  I tried to stay in the match but couldn't do it.   
  
  Q.  There were times out there, particularly after a long rally where she looks like she's breathing hard and she's doubled over.  What you do you think --   
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  But I was also the same.  That was the problem.  She's breathing hard at the other end, but I'm also on the opposite end breathing hard.  So it was tough.  There was some long points, but I was feeling tired.  I was not feeling fresh out there.  But I tried the best that I could, but not enough.   
  
  Q.  When she really gets to T off on a ball, does she still hit it as hard as anyone in the world?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  She hits it hard, but I like her hit.  But I just -- I just couldn't -- how to say?  I needed to play my game but I just couldn't play my game.   
 I just was -- she was maybe too good for me today and I couldn't find anything.  I was just not there on the court.  She was really -- I don't know how it explain, but...   
  
  Q.  Pre-match and during the hit up how did you feel then?  Did you feel confident?  Were you a bit tired before you started?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  When I came on the court it was really quite weird for me.  She was -- in the first few games she would hit a slow ball, I would hit it back, and then all of a sudden a 200-mile ball comes so fast.   
 And I was -- and I didn't know which kind of game was that.  She was just trying to get me off my game.  It was 3-Love in few minutes.  It was just I didn't even turn around and it was 3-Love.  I just didn't put one ball on the court.   
 It was really a bad start.  Then I went off the court after the rain delay and I tried to come back to feel better on the court, but it was just not good enough.  I didn't feel too good out there with my shots and nothing was working.  But I was trying, but -- next time.   
  
  Q.  You played Kim Clijsters last week --   
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  Yes.   
  
  Q.  Out of those three or four best chances for the tournament, who do you think might win?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  It's tough to say.  I think the favorites right now, Mauresmo is out.  Lots of seeds went out:  Kuznetsova, Mauresmo, maybe Clijsters Serena or Sharapova for me.   
  
  Q.  Is it disappointing when you saw the other results today?  Did you think that there was a real opportunity on this side of the draw given the other seeded players that went out today?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  No.  I think every round is tough.  I was not disappointed -- I'm disappointed I lost today, but like I said before, I never look too far in the draw.   
 Today I had a tough opponent and I knew that needed to play really well.  But I just didn't come out strong, and -- but I think Serena can take this now, take my lead, my draw and go far.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT