AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 19, 2007
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions.   
  
  Q.  A long two-set match.  How did you assess the match?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  It was a difficult match for me.  Especially we had to stop after 2-All because of the rain.  It's always difficult to go off the court and come back.   
 I tried to stay focused.  My opponent hits the ball pretty hard.  It's a different game.  But I think I was mentally strong when I needed to.  I was quite solid.  I'm happy to get through.   
  
  Q.  A good match today if you're to progress further in the tournament?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  Yes, of course.  This was a good match to get under my belt.  I played an opponent who doesn't have anything to lose.  She has no pressure.  It's always good to win like that.   
 Next match I have quite tough, which is Serena Williams.  I've beaten her before, but I expect a tough match and hope to do well.   
  
  Q.  Would you have guessed you were going to play Serena?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  No, no, no, I never.  I was concentrating on my match.  I wasn't thinking who I play the next round because it doesn't matter if I was going to play Serena and I lost today.  So I just concentrated on my match.   
 I'm looking forward to playing Serena.  She's playing well.  I will try to give my best and we'll see how it will go.   
  
  Q.  Do you enjoy playing in matches where you're the favorite, the player expected to win?  Is that pressure you enjoy?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  I enjoy.  No, doesn't matter if I'm the favorite or not.  I always enjoy the challenge.  I try to play the best that I can.  Every time I step on the court, I try to give my maximum.  Of course, I go to win the match.   
  
  Q.  Having seen Serena play so well today, what can you expect when you play her?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  Playing Serena, it's always tough.  Doesn't matter if she just came from an injury or she didn't play, she always a great champion.  I've beaten her twice before.  My score against her is 2-1, so I know how to play against her.  I'll try my best.  We'll see.  It will be a good match for sure.   
  
  Q.  Do you think it says more about women's tennis or more about her that she can come back after such a long time, really not playing much, and succeed like she seems to succeed?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  She's a great athlete.  She's strong.  I think she has the experience.  She won so many Grand Slams.  It's different when you already been in this kind of situation.  She knows how it feels.   
 "Okay, she had a knee injury, didn't play.  She's not in good form."  You always have to expect she can come out and she can play unbelievable tennis.   
  
  Q.  Have you ever been intimidated by a reputation of an opponent?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  No, not at all.  I don't think so.  I respect every player.  But when I go on court, I want to win.   
  
  Q.  Do you think other girls do?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  Maybe they get intimidated by some of the stronger players.  For me, no, I don't get intimidated at all because I know I have the quality to beat them as well.  I just go out there and play my game, that's all.  I'm not thinking if she's No. 1 in the world or whoever she is.   
  
  Q.  You're the fourth favorite to win this tournament.  Do you think you can get it?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  It's just tough to say.  I mean, I'm just in the fourth round right now.  I'm really not thinking about that.  I'm just concentrating.  I have a tough round against Serena next.  I just want to concentrate on that and we'll see.  Just want to enjoy and play the best that I can.   
  
  Q.  You lost to Azarenka before when life was not so good.  What does it mean?  Does it show you how far you've come?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  I lost when I was in the bad period when I was losing so many matches.  But I knew that today I am a different Jelena.  I am not the Jelena playing last year in the beginning of the year.  I knew that I can come out today strong, as different player.  I felt more confident.  I knew I could do well.  It showed with my kind of attitude on court, I was mentally quite strong.  I was focused the whole time.  Even though sometimes I felt quite tired, it was hot, long points, I did well, came through the match.   
  
  Q.  How is the fatigue?  You've played probably more than anyone this year.   
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  I think I won 12 matches out of 13, which is a lot in the beginning of the year.  I came out quite strong in the beginning of the year, which is good for me.  I feel quite confident.  I really am enjoying the game.   
 Of course, I'm a little bit tired.  I don't think about that.  I'm just happy to play.  I hope to get as many matches as possible.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT