MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 11, 2007
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  I suppose the biggest question is will the body hold together for the final? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  I hope so.  After I finish this press conference I will go to the physio room and I will have so many treatments, with my feet, with my back, with my groin.  I have so many things that are really hurting me at the moment, and I will have a massage, so I hope that I can recover for tomorrow's match. 

 Q.  What did you do immediately after the match?  Did you have an ice bath to get your temperature down? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  I went for a little jog.  I was running for 10 or 15 minutes just to cool off a little bit, even though it was very, very difficult.  I was struggling to run, but my trainer made me do that, and then I had a cold shower and I stretched, and after this I will have a massage and all these treatments to recover well. 

 Q.  A lot of players this week who have felt small injuries have retired during the tournament.  Why are you keeping going at this point? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  Because I'm this kind of a player.  I don't like to give up.  It doesn't matter which tournament we are at.  I try always to give my best and to fight until the end, and today I had a problem with my back, but the trainer came out and she really helped me a lot.  She loosened me up, and I was able to finish the match and actually win, which I didn't believe at some moments. 

 Q.  After that second set when you had the trainer come out twice, did you think you wouldn't be able to push through for the third set? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  I was really struggling, especially with the heat and everything, but it's my ninth match today and I didn't have any rest, so it's really, really difficult for me, but I was just telling to myself I have to hang in there and fight until the end, and that's what I did.  Especially the fans, you know, when it was the most difficult, when I really thought that I have no energy left, they kind of motivated me and pushed me to my limits. 

 Q.  You've never beaten Kim Clijsters. 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  And I've never beaten Mauresmo before, but I gave her revenge (laughter). 

 Q.  She was saying that you look more confident out on the court. 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  Yes, I feel more confident.  The last couple of matches that we had were really, really tough.  I lost in three sets.  It was a few points here and there, then I made a mistake. 
 I think I have a good chance, and if I play like I've been playing, I think I can do it.  I won the tournament last week, I won one title, so I'm really confident, and maybe I can go for the second one.  It would be nice. 

 Q.  What's been the most pleasing thing; is it your fitness, your stroke play?  What's the most satisfying thing coming through Auckland and now Sydney? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  I don't know, I think I'm just fighting.  When I can set up, I can play my game, I can play really aggressively and I can -- I don't know, I like to dictate the play, and that's what -- especially my backhand is working really well, especially down the line. 
 I like to have an all-court game, kind of every shot I want to have in my repertoire, or how you say it. 

 Q.  How are the blisters on your feet? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  They're getting better.  I'm getting treatments every day.  Yesterday I thought I was having surgery in the training room.  They were all with the scalpel, the knife, and they were having a lot of fun.  And me, I'm there, I'm sweating, I'm so scared, but I survived (laughter). 

 Q.  Do you think that continuing to play matches -- you've played obviously perhaps much more than you expected to play in these two weeks; as preparation for the Australian Open, is this better preparation, or would resting at this point be a little bit better for you? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  I will have two days off rest.  Tomorrow is the final and then Saturday I will not practise, I will just rest.  Maybe depending on if I play on Monday or Tuesday, I will see what I have to do on Sunday. 
 I think it was good for me to have this -- so many matches, especially against the top players.  It gave me a lot of confidence, and I feel really prepared for Melbourne because I think it wouldn't be so nice if I just went to Melbourne with just one match or no matches at all.  You lose first round and you don't feel so confident when you're going for the Grand Slam. 

 Q.  Would you request a late start on Tuesday, later start? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  I don't think I can request a late start at the Grand Slam.  It's depending on which half you are, bottom or top, so they put you -- if I have luck, I would like to play on Tuesday to have as many days of rest as possible. 
 What is my ranking now? 

 Q.  12, I think.  You'll go a little higher.  They say you will be world No. 10 if you win. 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  If I win the whole tournament.  And now? 

 Q.  I think it's 11 if you get into the final. 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  Well, who is 11 because Vaidisova is defending points here, but she didn't get any points. 

 Q.  So you will go ahead of her. 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  But Safina, how many she has? 

 Q.  It's like chess, isn't it? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC:  I'm asking you so I can write it down for my newspaper (laughter). 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT