DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 16, 2016
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. JANKOVIC/B. Bencic
4-6, 7-5, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. That was a big fight.  And she kept saving so many break points.  How did you hang in there?
JELENA JANKOVIC: Yeah, it was really difficult match.  You know, Belinda is playing very well, and she's in form and she's coming from a final in St. Petersburg.  Of course she was coming with confidence here.
I came into this tournament with not a lot of matches.  You know, I'm just getting my rhythm and kind of basically starting the season.
You know, I just fought hard.  I was hanging in there every point.  You know, even though I had a lot of break points, it was a little bit disappointing, you know, a couple of those occasions where I couldn't convert.
And I stood strong when I was serving, so I was holding my serve.  Then again, you know, I was up Love-30, 15-40, and it was never happening.  Now, at the end, I was able to do it and win the match.
So overall, you know, it was ups and downs.  There was some good tennis but there was also, you know, tough times for me during the match.  But the most important thing is that I won at the end.
Q. What did the points tell you?
JELENA JANKOVIC: You know, a few tactical changes.  You know, I think, as well, you know, playing at night, it's a little bit different than playing during the day.  I felt, you know, when I started the match my ball was going really short.  I was kind of not going off the racquet.  So I started to hit a little more, change directions.  I went up the line a little more, so that helped.
You know, I think I served much better, you know, after I lost the first set.  Second set and third I was able to hold my serve and, you know, wait for my chances to break.  I did at the end.
Q. JJ, you joked on the court that you're 12 years older than her.
JELENA JANKOVIC: Yeah, basically, she's 18.  Six years away, she was born...  (Laughter.)
No, but this is the way it is.  You know, there are young players coming up.  My advantage is the experience and a lot of years on tour and, you know, playing in this event for so many years.  I have been a finalist in 2005.  Someone told me the other day when I was doing the interview, and I was like, Oh, my God, that's a long time ago.
So that shows my appreciation for this tournament and the amount of years I have been coming back and competing at these events.  That's amazing.
Q. What is it you like about this tournament?
JELENA JANKOVIC: You know, first of all, I have the residence here.  I enjoy spending time in Dubai.  I love Dubai, especially during this time of year when it's not too hot.  I like the people, the city, pretty much everything.  I like to spend my time here.  I love shopping (laughter) and spending some money.
But I have to play well to do that, as well (laughter).
Q. Andrea tomorrow.
JELENA JANKOVIC: When am I playing?
THE MODERATOR: Fourth after 2:00.
JELENA JANKOVIC: When is that?  Is there a "not before"?
THE MODERATOR: Fourth match after 2:00.
JELENA JANKOVIC: Which court?
THE MODERATOR: Court 1.
JELENA JANKOVIC: I'm downgraded, huh?  No challenge.
Q. It's a bit faster on the outside ones, right?
JELENA JANKOVIC: Yeah.  It's okay.  Another tough match.  You know, I know Andy pretty well.  She's a good friend of mine.  We train with each other.  It's going to be another difficult match.  There are no secrets to our games.  The best one will win.  I will try my best to play some good tennis.
Q. Will you try and make the party?
JELENA JANKOVIC: What time is it?
THE MODERATOR: 10:00.
JELENA JANKOVIC: It's way past my bedtime.  No, I have to do my recovery.  You know, when you reach a certain age you have to focus a little more on the body rather than, you know, things like this.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT