ROLAND GARROS
May 27, 2014
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. JANKOVIC/S. Fichman
      5‑7, 6‑1, 6‑3 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please.   
   
 Q.   Did you underestimate her?   
    JELENA JANKOVIC:   No.   No, I didn't underestimate her; I underestimated the weather, those matches that were going on before us, and especially yesterday.   
    I think overall it was so tough to, you know, stay calm and positive and wait for, you know, those matches to be done.  
    We didn't know when we were going to be on, and then finally 8:00 we went on after waiting for like ten hours in the club.   It's not easy to be so active and so focused.  
    I had that problem last night especially.   She started off so well.   She was hitting the ball so great and played an unbelievable match.  
    I played against her in Toronto last year, and it was as well a tough match.   Today and yesterday as well it was very tough.   She was hitting the ball so hard and did not make many mistakes.   
    I was able to somehow manage to get through.  
   
 Q.   Does she have the best dropshot in the world?  
    JELENA JANKOVIC:   She did some really good dropshots.   You know, I'm quite fast.   I was not able to get them, so they were pretty good.  
   
 Q.   With you back in the top 10 and Ana Ivanovic now knocking on the door, is that motivating to see how well she's doing?  
    JELENA JANKOVIC:   I focus on myself and my results.   I don't look at other players, what they do.   It's nice that the Serbian players are doing well and that we can be in the top again.   
    As far as is comes for me, I'm focused on myself.   I never compare myself to anyone.   I try to do my best and be the best player I can be.   
   
 Q.   Do you have memories of the 2008 semifinal against her and playing against her?   I think you did a photo shoot with the Serbian flag in front of the Eiffel Tower.   
    JELENA JANKOVIC:   Maybe we could do it again.   That would be cool.   That would be cool.   2008 was a good year for both of us:   I finished No. 1 in the world; she won the French Open.   
    So that was really good for both of us.   Hopefully we can do it again this year and go far.   That would be really awesome.   
   
 Q.   You are going to play Kurumi in the next round; it's going to be three slams in a row.   
    JELENA JANKOVIC:   Yeah, three slams I'm playing against her.   
   
 Q.   How did you see that matchup?  
    JELENA JANKOVIC:   Yeah, she's a very solid player; she gets a lot of balls back.  
    I have to play my tennis, my game, and we'll see how it goes.   
   
 Q.   Last two times you played on hard court against her, and this time it's going to be ‑‑  
    JELENA JANKOVIC:   ‑‑ the first time on clay, yes.  
   
 Q.   Yes.   So how do you think it affects the match and the game plan?  
    JELENA JANKOVIC:   I love playing on clay, so it suits my game.   I don't know what's her favorite surface.   
    I enjoy playing on it.   It will be our first match against each other on this surface, so different conditions, different courts.   
    Like I said, I will just go out there and try to play my tennis hopefully better than in the first round and just overall improve everything and be more relaxed and positive and have better focus.  
    We'll see.   Hopefully it will go well.  
   
 Q.   Two things:   First thing is what were the people doing in the corner of the court last night that was getting you so aggravated?   You went over to yell at them.   What were they doing?   
    JELENA JANKOVIC:   I yell all the time, so...  
    I yell all the time.   I cannot concentrate and just I just pick one thing that bothered me.   There were quite a lot of things that were going on over there.  
    No, I was losing, and when things don't go well you're always looking for something that bothers you.   You don't feel good in your skin overall.  
    No, but there is nothing wrong.   Basically it's my mistake.   It's the time that I'm not playing well and being ahead in the match that's bothering me the most.  
    Everything else, the peripheral side, doesn't matter.   It's all up to me.   I do not blame anyone else.   It's all me.  
   
 Q.   The second question is do you think because the weather and the circumstances that you were never going to get to reveal your new dress that had been talked about since Indian Wells?  
    JELENA JANKOVIC:   I did; I took it off.   
   
 Q.   Finally you did, yeah.   
    JELENA JANKOVIC:   It's so cold here and I started to sweat quite a lot.   I said, Okay, I'm going to take it off.  
    But I could not focus very well with all the things going on, waiting around for so long yesterday, for quite the whole day.   We went on court at 8:00 in the dark.   
    Really, to be honest.   I had a problem just staying awake.   I had quite a lot of coffees, and my eyes‑‑ I needed to be alert and just ready to go, quite active; I could not make that happen.   
    My opponent was way more kind of hyper and playing so well.   She was all over the place.   I was like in slow motion.  
    So today was a little bit better, but still I was not able to sleep well.   I was a little bit nervous.  
    I needed to start off very well today and hopefully win that third set, so overall quite a lot of things going on in my mind.  
    It's not easy first round of a Grand Slam and playing an opponent that was playing so well.   She was just striking the ball amazingly.   She didn't have anything to lose, and it was tough for me.   
   
 Q.   What happened at 3‑All?   Seemed the match ended very quickly.   It was so close and then...  
    JELENA JANKOVIC:   Yeah, 3‑All was I down a break point?   I think I was.   I was down a break point and I came up with finally some good serves.  
    I wasn't able to hold my serve after winning the first game of the third set.   I was always being broken and broken and broken.   
    Finally 3‑All I was down a break point and I came up with some great serves, the best ones today, and I was able to hold and finally finish that match off.  
    So that was a good game for me.   Otherwise being down 4‑3, she's serving, the momentum is changing, and that wouldn't be a good situation.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT