QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 14, 2014
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. JANKOVIC/P. Kvitova
  6‑1, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Congratulations.   Can you talk a little bit about the game and how do you feel right now?  
JELENA JANKOVIC:   I feel pretty good with my game in this tournament.   So far, so good.   I have been playing I think tennis on a high level, especially today.   
It was very important that, you know, I start well and I keep, you know, keep that solid game from the beginning till the end.  
I think I made my shots pretty well out there.   I was focused.   I performed, you know, on a high level, which is important, especially against those top players.  
Pretty happy with my performance.   You know, I couldn't ask for more.  
   
 Q.   Did it perhaps go a bit faster than you expected going into the match?  
JELENA JANKOVIC:   Yeah.   I think Petra is such a tough opponent, and, you know, we have had some pretty tight matches in the past, and, you know, I didn't know what to expect.   I expected a really tough match.  
It's the first time I have beaten her in two sets.   Last time we played against each other was a tight three‑setter, and this time I was able to win in two sets.  
It's never easy playing against her.   She hits the ball so hard and is a very aggressive player.   I was able to take control, and I did pretty well.   So I'm really pleased with the way I played today.   
   
 Q.   And the last game, she kind of came up with shots that she wasn't able to do throughout the whole two sets, right?  
JELENA JANKOVIC:   Yeah.   I think I kind of, in those last couple of points, I was waiting, you know, for her to do something instead of me doing, you know, finishing the match off.  
That was a little mistake that I made, but then, you know, I focused on my serve, made that ace, and finally made up my mind I have to take control in my hands and finish the match off.   Otherwise I'm going to be in trouble.  
So, you know, I was able to stay strong in that last game and then win the match, but it was difficult I think mentally more than physically.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the semifinal against Angelique.   You have never been to the final here.   How do you feel about your chances, and how do you feel about that matchup?  
JELENA JANKOVIC:   Yeah, it would be nice to make the finals here for the first time.   I have been so many times semifinalist.   Actually when the tournament was the Championships here.   That would be a step forward.   
I played against Angelique just a month ago in Brisbane.   I was able to win that match, but as well she's not giving any free points.   She's a great fighter out there.   I have to play really high‑level tennis to go forward.  
So we will see how it goes.  
   
 Q.   I wanted to ask you a question about being coached by your brother.   What are the advantages and disadvantages of being coached by your brother?  
JELENA JANKOVIC:   The advantage is that he knows my personality, my character, the best and knows what I need, especially on the court, knows my weaknesses.  
You know, we work on improving, you know, my strengths, too.   All this, just working on improving, you know, little things here and there.  
And the disadvantage is that, you know, he's my brother.   He can tell me whatever he wants, and I can tell him whatever (laughter).  
That's why sometimes, you know, I start yelling over there and I don't mean it.   You know, it's just kind of the frustration I let out, you know, during the matches.   
But off the court I think we get along very well, and on the court, as well.   You know, it's just brother and sister, you know, it's that relationship that's very close.   We love each other, and we are in general very close to ‑‑ I'm very close to my family, and we just support each other and take care of each other.  
   
 Q.   You said a few words to the camera.   I think it was for your mother?  
JELENA JANKOVIC:   Yeah, I was sending regards to my mom, too, all the people back at home that are watching, so that was funny.   They were joking, like, Hey, send regards when you play today.   
I'm like, Yeah, will do.   
And then the last thing, I said, Oh, now I have a chance.   Okay.   (Laughter).   
It was funny.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT