QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 10, 2014
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Can you tell us a little bit again about how you got yourself back into the world's top 10, which is a great revival, and without giving away secrets, some of the things you did. 
JELENA JANKOVIC:   There is no secret, actually.   It's a lot of hard work and determination.   I tore my muscle last year in Melbourne, in my stomach, after that, basically like I had another offseason. 
And after that, I really, you know, made up my mind, you know, that I want to come back, I want to give myself an opportunity, you know, to do well in big tournaments and play with top players. 
In order to do that, you have to ‑‑ first of all, you have to be healthy, and in order to be healthy you have to put in hard work to prevent injuries.   So I started to work hard, and I just put in a lot of work on the tennis court and in the gym, as well. 
You know, with all that said, it gave me a lot of confidence, you know, and I saw that I was improving and that motivated me and inspired me to continue to do what I do best, which is, you know, playing tennis.   I enjoyed that process, which was a lot of fun for me. 
You know, sometimes you don't enjoy spending so many hours on the tennis court, but I did enjoy that work.   It was fun for me, and that's why I think I made it and came back to the top.

Q.   You say that you had to make up your mind.   Does this mean that you had to think about it and decide whether you really wanted to do it or not?
JELENA JANKOVIC:   No, because the two years ‑‑ I think I spent five years in the top 10 with a lot of good finishes, like the No. 1 finish, and then 3, and I think 7 or 8.
But then the last two years, I think 2011 and 2012 I finished outside of the top 10.   I finished in the top 20.   So there was a time when I said, you know, I have to do something different.   You know, I have to change a few things, you know, with my training.   With what I did, obviously it didn't work.
That's why I said I had to make some changes in order to come back.

Q.   You didn't think of stopping?
JELENA JANKOVIC:   No.   I think there is no way or there is no reason for me to stop if I still enjoy what I do.
But there is of course, you know, during your career that you have ups and downs.   It's a matter of time or, you know, finding key to come back where you belong, where you had been, but you have to do the right things.   You have to find those keys to play well again, to be, you know, to be competing against those top players week in, week out.
So that was basically it.   You know, I think once you have been there, once you have done all those things, you can do it again. 
So I was not really fortunate the last couple of years, not saying the last year, but those years when I was not doing well.   I had a lot of injuries where I broke my muscle in my quad and my stomach.   So that obviously sets you back, and you cannot train properly.   You have to, you know, rest and then do the rehab.   Then when you start practicing and you're not practicing 100%, that doesn't work. 
So all these things have to be in place.   I had to, you know, analyze what I have done wrong in order to not make the same mistakes, and I think I have learned a lot, you know, those times when you're not doing so well.   And, you know, it's not like I was, you know, 1000 in the world.   I was outside of the top 10.   I was a top‑20 player.   But in my opinion, you know, I thought I should be doing much better.
I want to do much better.   You know, last year I made up my mind, and I was very motivated to make that push and make that step forward, which I did, and I'm proud of myself and my team that we were able to do that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT