BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 3, 2014
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. AZARENKA/J. Jankovic
  1‑6, 6‑3, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You came out playing really unbelievably well the first set.   Do you think just that first game of the second set changed the momentum? 
JELENA JANKOVIC:   Yeah, I had these break points at Love‑40 and that easy backhand, and just was, I don't know, went the wrong way.   She read me and she passed me.
Since then, I don't know why, I been getting more tired.   I slowed down and I stopped moving and lost this intensity, which she took advantage of.
You know, I came back.   She was up 4‑1 and then 4‑3, and then some games when I put myself into opportunity to level, you know, in the second set, I didn't.   I didn't play well.
So I didn't serve well when I needed to.   I didn't have high percentage on my first serves and gave her a look at my second serve too often.   I should have done better at that.   For some reason ‑ I don't know why, I had tough matches or it's hot ‑ but I lost the intensity that needed to be there.
As the match went on she was going on top of me and I was going down.   Overall it was a tough match, and I think we both battled.   It was close until the end.   Even the third set.   5‑1 down and I came back 5‑4 and missed a couple bad returns.   I didn't move my feet.   I was just stuck.   I don't know why. 
Unfortunately I lost that game and lost the match.   But that's the sport.   You know, it's first tournament of the year.   It takes time a little bit to, you know, get in shape, get match tough, which is very important, and keep the focus for a little bit longer. 
I kept it for the first set, but at times there was some ups and downs which I need to clean up a bit in my next tournament.
But so far, you know, so good.   I think I played a good tournament.   You never know what that expect from yourself after such a long break.   You know, two months of not competing and then you come here and it's really not easy to play in the hot conditions.   These courts are really fast, and especially against the top players it's tough work. 
But I think I did pretty well.   Hopefully I can keep improving and learn from my mistakes, especially today.

Q.   As soon as that point happened and she guessed right, were we were thinking that may be a turning point. 
JELENA JANKOVIC:   No, I thought I was going to win that game, but then she had a let, so, you know, I guess it was meant it be, you know.
I hit a great return on my other advantage.   I hit a really aggressive return and she was late, the ball was going to the net, and just passed over.   She took that game.   What can you do?   Couple points here and there change the whole, you know, situation. 
Okay, she held the serve, and then I was serving on the other side.   I had 30‑Love on my serve.   Then I think I got bitten by some bug.

Q.   Yeah, what happened there?
JELENA JANKOVIC:   I don't know, some bug.   I felt something crawling on my shoulder and I touched it and I felt like something bit me.   Like stung.   I don't know what it was.
Then I lost a bit of focus there.   Made a double fault.   I don't know what I did.   Love‑2.   So it was a little bit unfortunate some games that, you know, could have gone my way, too.
But they didn't, so I mean, that's the sport.   If I made better decision on that backhand, if she didn't hit a let‑‑ but if she would.   If, if, if.   There are so many ifs.   That's the sport.   That's the beauty of the sport.   Sometimes it goes your way; sometimes it doesn't. 
I just have to stay positive, and like I said, learn from my mistakes, what I have done well and what I have not done well, and try to clean up some things and improve for my next tournament. 

Q.   She's No. 2 in the world.   Is that a good indicator of where you are against the top girls? 
JELENA JANKOVIC:   Yeah, I think when I play my game and if I stay focused and disciplined to what I have to do‑‑ in the first set when I was on top and dictating and had everything in my control, and it was all up to me what's going to happen.
If I'm hitting the ball clean and solid and putting pressure and serving well and playing aggressive returns, you know, I was really doing well on the court. 
But then after that second set, in the middle of the second set, I started to let her play and I backed up a bit.   I was hitting the ball shorter.   I didn't make many first serves in.   I didn't put as much pressure when she was serving.
She took advantage of that.   You have to go out and you have to execute.   You have to go after your shots if you're going to win.   As the match was going, you know, longer, I was slowing down and lost that intensity.   I didn't move my feet.   I slowed down my arm.   Those things, you know, shouldn't happen. 
But, you know, I'm disappointed from my part.   There are things that you can control and there are things you cannot control.   But for some reason I just lost that intensity, I don't know, of the heat, of whatever.   It's a tough tournament and every match is tough.   Today was like 37 degrees and very humid, so who knows.
But I don't want to make excuses.   You know, I should have done better.   But I just to have move on and stay positive. 

Q.   Do you have another tournament to play before Melbourne? 
JELENA JANKOVIC:   Sydney probably, yes. 

Q.   You said probably.   So you're not sure?   You got a lot of matches in here. 
JELENA JANKOVIC:   Yeah, so we'll see.   I don't know when that starts.   I probably have to start soon, huh?   Sunday or Monday?   Monday is the last day I could play?

Q.   I'm not sure.   I don't know if you get a bye there yet. 
JELENA JANKOVIC:   Probably not.   I'm not Top 4.   I'm 8 in the world. 

Q.   So is Marko going to be with you?
JELENA JANKOVIC:   Yeah, he's going to come to Sydney and Melbourne.

Q.   How is it not having him here this week?
JELENA JANKOVIC:   It was a little bit different.

Q.   Who were you with?
JELENA JANKOVIC:   Another coach and hitting partner that were here with me.   You know, it was a little bit different, to be honest, when I was playing, especially in the first few matches, not having‑‑ hearing his voice on the court.
But, you know, he's going to come in Sydney.   It's going to be the same.   But here I think I still did well with my other team.   We work very hard together.   I try to improve.   I try to improve certain shots in my game tactic‑wise, try to make some improvements.
But in this level it's very important to have the focus.   As soon as you lose the focus, the games go by so fast.   Sometimes it's tough to come back, especially when you're playing against No. 2 or 1 in the world or those top players.   You got to be up there from the beginning until the end.   You cannot have a lot of ups and downs, because they take advantage of the little chances that they get.
So, you know, few mistakes here and there make a big difference. 

Q.   Did you expect to have the crowd on her side playing her today? 
JELENA JANKOVIC:   They were on my side?   Really? 

Q.   Yeah.   Definitely. 
JELENA JANKOVIC:   I don't know. 

Q.   You didn't notice that? 
JELENA JANKOVIC:   I was so in my zone just trying to focus on what I have to do and how I got to construct my points.
But it's nice.   Wherever you go around the world you have fans and people cheering for you, supporting you.   That means a lot to me.   I really appreciate that. 
It's nice to see.   It helps me a lot on the court, and I try always to give my best. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT