HUAJIN SECURITIES WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
November 3, 2015
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. JANKOVIC/S. Errani
  6‑4, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

Q. That looked like an exhausting match. 
JELENA JANKOVIC: Yeah.

Q. So can you talk about how you were able to get through it, especially at the end each set. Just a lot of long games that you guys had to play out there. 
JELENA JANKOVIC: Yeah, it was a really tough match, you know, a lot running, a lot of long rallies and fighting. 
You know, I thought I played well. In certain games I was playing aggressive and was dictating play, but then at certain periods in the match I got tired. I didn't have the energy to hit enough, hit through the shots. And especially at the end of this second set, I thought at some point I was going to ‑‑ I was not going to make it because I was breathing really hard.
I was really tired. You know, I really pushed myself and I really tried to stay tough there, and I did. I pulled that game off, down 15‑40 on my serve. 
And then on the other side I was able to break her and I really stood tough. I stood mentally tough when I needed, even when times were really, really difficult out there.
She's a tough cookie, a big fighter, and she does not give you any free points. I really had to earn it. I'm glad I was able to beat her tonight. 

Q. You said you were tired at certain points in the match. How much of that fatigue is because it's the last tournament of the season? How much of it is because the actual match or training before? How do you break it down?
JELENA JANKOVIC: I think it's a little bit of both. Of course it's end of the season. I think all of the players are tired mentally and physically.
You know, I'm here to compete one more week. Last week of the season for us, so I really want to give my best and finish strong, finish the year in a good way.
In the last month or so I won two tournaments; I played a lot of matches; I've been traveling from Asia to Europe, from Europe to Asia. 
It's really not easy on the body to handle the jet lag and the time differences and weather conditions.
But I'm here, and I'm really, like I said, trying to do my best. I don't want to complain. We're all in the same condition, so we're all trying. 

Q. (Through translation.) I would like to propose a question that Zhuhai WTA is a very new tournament. For you as the first time coming here, what's your impression of the facilities and the courts, and also the condition of the courts? 
JELENA JANKOVIC: Yes, I'm very impressed with the facilities here in Zhuhai. I think the organization has done a great job, a tremendous job. The stadium is so beautiful. The courts, the organization, our hotel, everything I think I'm really impressed. I think all of the players are more than satisfied and very happy to be here. 

Q. Tomorrow you got an aggressive and fast player, Pliskova. What is the strategy for her? Different than today?
JELENA JANKOVIC: Yes, the points will be a lot shorter than today, that's for sure. She has a big serve and aggressive game. We played against each other in Cincinnati and it was a tough match.
I will have to play a little bit differently than tonight, but I will try to play my tennis and hopefully try to win and pass my group. 

Q. J.J., what is your reaction to Aga winning the Finals? Also, what do you think it says maybe a little bit about the 2015 season? 
JELENA JANKOVIC: What does that mean? 

Q. What was your reaction to Aga winning?
JELENA JANKOVIC: I mean, anyone can win. The competition is so tough these days that anyone can win on a certain day. Those players are playing so well that it's just a matter of, you know, here and there little bits that make a difference.
Maybe Maria and Garbine were a little bit tired because they won three matches in a row. Maybe they were a little bit exhausted or they gave up a little bit. I'm not sure what it is. Aga deserved to win.
It's not easy playing as well the semis and winning the Finals and beating‑‑ who did she beat? Garbine and then Petra. She deserved to win. There is nothing you can say. Only congrats. 
Like I said, all of those players deserved to be in the Championships, and the better one won at the end. That's the fun part about our game. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT