CHINA OPEN
October 5, 2013
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. JANKOVIC/P. Kvitova
  6‑7, 6‑1, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please.   
   
 Q.   I guess congratulations first.   
JELENA JANKOVIC:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   First big final since Indian Wells 2010.   How do you feel about that?  
JELENA JANKOVIC:   Yes, I feel great to be here in the finals of China Open.   Been in the finals here when I won in 2008, so it feels unbelievable to be back and to be playing at a high level and be playing against the top players and just performing on the, you know, center courts.  
I think it's great feeling.   So I'm very thrilled that I was able to beat Kvitova today.   I lost to her the last two times.   She always gave me a lot of trouble and didn't allow me to play my game.   Even today in the first set she was controlling the points and who played better.  
I was still there, but I didn't feel comfortable.   Then in the two other sets I felt like I went on top of her and took control.   Then I think as the match went on she got tired, and then it was pretty much I think I had everything in my hands.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned you had some success before.   You won the title here in 2008.   What do you think is the reason that you are the force to be reckoned with in Beijing?   You must have some magic here.   You always play great in Beijing.   
JELENA JANKOVIC:   I love China.   I love my Chinese fans.   They support me a lot.   I feel great here.   I've enjoyed coming back here every year.   I have a lot of fun.  
Like I said, I have great memories.   I played Olympic Games here and I became No. 1 in the world when I played Olympic Games and winning the title in 2008.   I think I was a finalist in 2007, and now again in 2013.  
It's a tournament which I love.   I love performing here.   I'm grateful that I have success.   I hope it continues.   
   
 Q.   Talk a little bit about how you're going to prepare for either Williams or Radwanska who you'll be playing tomorrow?  
JELENA JANKOVIC:   You know, to be honest, I just finished a tough match against a player which I didn't beat before.   You know, I'll see who will win and which tactics I have to play tomorrow.  
But it's going to be ‑‑ either way it's going to be another difficult match.   It's a finals.   I think, you know, you're one step away from the title and you really want to give your best, more than your maximum, and try to play at my highest level to play my best tennis if I want to have chance to win.  
Especially if it's going to be against Serena.   She's the best player in the world right now.   She's in unbelievable form.   And even though I have beaten her in the past, I think I have five, six wins against her, but I think she's the most difficult player to play against.  
So we'll see how it goes.   Hopefully I can just play the best that I can so that I can have a chance.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned Serena is the most difficult player to play against.   I want to know, what makes Serena the unique player to play, that she's the most difficult player to play with?  
JELENA JANKOVIC:   I think first of all, she has a lot of experience.   She has won a lot titles, played pretty much‑‑ won pretty much everything there is to win.  
As well, she's physically so strong, I think stronger than 99% of the players.   You know, I think she has all the shots.   She's so strong and she can, you know, play any ball, you know, and very fast.  
So, you know, when she's on top of her game it's very difficult to beat her.   So you have to try to break that up and try to not let her play her game and try to kind of take control on your own and try to, you know, play your tennis so that she cannot play hers.  
If you're able to do that, then you might have a chance to win.   
   
 Q.   It's the tenth anniversary of the China Open.   You are one of three WTA players who have been here every single year.   Talk a little bit about that.   
JELENA JANKOVIC:   Yes, I didn't know you know I played this many years.   That's the fact that I been hearing every time I step on the court, it's my tenth time to play this tournament.  
So it's nice to be able to support such a prestigious event.   Like I said, I enjoy coming back here.   I think as well, when you have success, I think that's as well what pushes you, you know, to come pretty much every year if I'm healthy.  
You know, I hope to be coming, you know, in the next years as long as I play.   And I think my nails showed the love for the China Open, too.   (Laughter.)  
   
 Q.   One more question:   I found that you have very pretty dress for though court, and I love it.   Can you talk a little bit about your dress.   
JELENA JANKOVIC:   Thank you.   I appreciate that.   My sponsor is Fila, and I think they have done a great job designing the dress and designing the outfit.  
It's very comfortable and great material.   I play well in it, and that's the most important thing.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel like 2013 is reborn year for you?   You're now back on top; almost certain to play the Championships.   We're really excited to see you're doing so good again and shining again.   That must be really feel good for you right now.   
JELENA JANKOVIC:   Yes, it feels great to be, you know, first of all back in the top 10.   You know, I've worked very hard.   I think in the beginning of the year I was close to 30 in the world, and I've come a long way.  
I worked very hard and I really gave the best on my training sessions and in my matches just to get my confidence back and that belief that I can be the top player again and do well again.  
So I think this year was a great year for me as far as coming back and making that step forward.   And as well, you know, I think I'm almost close to making the Championships, which in the beginning of the year I thought it wasn't even my goal.   I didn't think I could make it.   
But now I'm probably so close to it.   And probably, you know, I hope that, you know, I will, you know, be in the top 8 so I can compete there, which is a great achievement for me this year.  
Gives me great motivation for next year to do even better and work even harder and come back to the top where I've been before in the previous years.   
So far so good.   
In the beginning of the tournament when I talked to you guys I said that I have to do so well here in order to have a chance to play the Championships, and I'm in good hands right now.  
I'm pretty pleased about that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT