WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 16, 2013
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. JANKOVIC/R. Vinci
  6‑0, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   Jelena, what is it about Cincinnati?   You seem to just play some of your best tennis here. 
JELENA JANKOVIC:   Actually, in the early rounds I was struggling a bit, especially in those first sets.   I didn't really feel my game. 
But today was very different.   I started aggressive and I felt the ball great.   I felt good on the court.   I'm really pleased with my performance today, so that's important. 
I mean, I love playing here in Cincinnati because I have great results in the past.   So that always helps.   I mean, I was a finalist and a champion before, so you always love coming back to places where you can win. 
I just was able to fight throughout the previous matches to stay strong in the important moments and get through.   So today was a bit different story, but I played a lot better at a high level.

Q.   Jelena, you've been playing well in doubles as well.   How much is that helping your singles results? 
JELENA JANKOVIC:   Yeah, I started playing doubles this year, and I reached my career high of 25 in the doubles, won the tournament last week in Toronto, which was amazing. 
The reason I started playing doubles is because I want to improve my singles game and I really want to try to come in a lot, and that showed today. 
Against Vinci, I was coming in a lot to the net, pretty much every other point, or every point.   As much as I could, I tried to approach the shots and finish the balls at the net. 
So I think I played very well tactically I executed my shots.   Of course, playing the doubles helps me feel more comfortable at the net and positioning.   I'm still learning.   I'm still learning how to play that game, but it's, I think, improved a lot. 
So I will try to keep on playing.

Q.   So you thought you played really well today.   In the first set, obviously, you dominated.   Do you feel a light come on after struggling in the other matches, like, I've got it back now? 
JELENA JANKOVIC:   Yeah, because in the previous matches I played really bad in the first set.   With Stephens yesterday I made a lot of errors and I was not hitting the ball clean.   Then after, in the second set, I started feeling much better and then fought hard. 
Today was different.   I came out strong.   I was really confident with my game, and it was different.   I felt like a top player.   In the previous matches, I was just a little bit insecure and not feeling my shots and worked my way through the match. 
You know, the most important thing is I was able to figure out my way and win.   Even when the times got tough and I didn't play my best tennis, I was strong mentally and got through those matches.

Q.   Playing so well today, how does that help you moving forward now? 
JELENA JANKOVIC:   It obviously helps when you play a great match.   Vinci's a really tough opponent.   It gives me a lot of confidence because I was able to perform at the high level, and I didn't really allow my opponent to play her tennis. 
Vinci is very dangerous when you let her play, and she mixed up those shots.   She has great touch.   She has a lot of variety in her game.   I didn't really let her do that. 
So I'm pleased with how I handled the situation.

Q.   She had, I think, six breakpoints at one point in the second set, and you won them all.   That must help your confidence too; that really hurt hers. 
JELENA JANKOVIC:   That was another thing.   I think yesterday we had 18 breaks of serve, and that doesn't help.   But today, I think in the first set I had 80% first serve in.   And they were hit pretty flat.   They were not just to get them in. 
So that part I improved on today, and that helped me as well.   When I was down a couple breakpoints I was able to serve some good serves.   And as well, I came up with some great second serves when it mattered. 
So I'm really pleased with that.   So hopefully I can just keep on improving and getting better. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT