DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 28, 2015
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
   
 Q. The first two sets are very tough. You played very well in the third set, especially in the last game. Would you talk about it.   
JELENA JANKOVIC: You know, it was a very difficult match for me. First of all, I game from Guangzhou, so I didn't have a lot of time to recover. We were all beginning the match, getting the energy. The conditions are a little bit different here in Wuhan. It took me some time to adjust. As well, it was my first time playing against Heather.   
I think she played really well. Especially she was serving well, and I could not read in that first set. I had difficulties. In the second set, as well. I think she played very well.   
I was very strong in that third set. I think I started to play more aggressive. I started to hit the ball cleaner and had more energy. I felt better on the court. I served very well, as well, in that third, which I think made a difference.   
   
 Q. We know that you took the high‑speed railway from Guangzhou to Wuhan. What is your feeling?  
JELENA JANKOVIC: My first time to go with such a train like this here in China. Was a really good experience. I really had a good seat. I really enjoyed that kind of transportation, going by train. It was a fast train.   
I really did not feel tired. I had a really good, nice bed, you know, that chair you can spread. I think it was a nice way to travel without really wasting a lot of energy. I think it was a good decision.   
I enjoyed it much more than the plane ride. As well, I got to see a little bit of the different parts of China along the way. I had a nice little short sleep. I don't think I could ask for more.   
   
 Q. What do you think about the way the court is playing, the speed and the bounce? Also, is the leg an injury or is it just sore?  
JELENA JANKOVIC: Yeah, I think the court is a little bit different to Guangzhou, last week what I played in. I played with Babolat balls. Here I'm playing with Wilson balls. It's a little bit different. As well in Guangzhou it was very humid and very hot. Here is a lot cooler and a lot dryer. There's a lot of differences.   
Of course, I just came yesterday, so I only had a hit, the warmup. I did not really have a lot of time to adjust. I was like, okay, I have to do everything in the match and feel it. But I think I did pretty well to stay strong and to stay solid in the important moments in the match.   
My leg I think was getting tired. I'm not sure what I did. We'll see after when I go to the physios. But I just tried to stay focused in the match, not really think about the problem. I continued to play my tennis.   
   
 Q. You're facing Kerber next. Great battle coming.   
JELENA JANKOVIC: Yes, I'm having difficult opponents. Every match is tough and it's getting tougher and tougher, tougher tasks. I have to play really good tennis again if I want to win. So I'll try my best. Hopefully I'll be in good shape.   
   
 Q. It seems like the fans in China are really into your game, your personality. Do you feel like you're more liked here than other parts of the world?  
JELENA JANKOVIC: I think I have fans in many places around the world. I have been competing for about 15 years professionally around the world. I think I have quite a lot of fans here. I have a lot of support.   
I think because I did quite well in the past in China Open, winning the China Open, doing well in many places in China. I've been coming to China for many years.   
It's nice to see that support. They come out with the posters. They're cheering. I really appreciate that. Hopefully I will be coming for many more years, use that support and that love to my advantage. I really love that, yeah.   
   
 Q. I want to ask you, the next year, Brazil Olympic Games, I wish you can play on behalf of Serbia, play Olympic Games.   
JELENA JANKOVIC: I hope I can play Olympic Games and represent my country. Hopefully, you know, we will get some medals.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT