CHINA OPEN
September 30, 2012
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. JANKOVIC/A. Petkovic
  6‑2, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Chinese, please.   
   
 Q.   (Off microphone.)   
JELENA JANKOVIC:   Yes, first of all, it's unfortunate that we had to play against each other in the first round, and as well we are playing doubles with each other.  
She's a good friend of mine.   She's coming back from an injury, and she's a great player.   I'm sure she will be playing great soon.   You know, she will be having great results soon.  
I just wish her the best of luck, and like I said, it's unfortunate that we had to play against each other in the first round.  
   
 Q.   (Off microphone.)  
JELENA JANKOVIC:   Yes, we had a lot of fun playing doubles yesterday.   We had a good match.   I thought that we played really good tennis.  
After the match, we made a funny picture.   We did some poses, like Chinese school for whatever you want to call it.  
Just funny, you know.   For us, like I said, we enjoyed our match.   After that we were happy and we just took a funny picture.   That's the story behind it.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please.   
   
 Q.   Talk a little about the dynamic about playing against your doubles partner in singles.   Is there incentive to win?   She obviously seemed pretty frustrated.   
JELENA JANKOVIC:   Yeah, I mean, like I said, it's not fun playing your doubles partner, especially in the first round.  
It would be much better if we played in the semis or finals, but those are the things we cannot control.   I mean, we didn't choose to play each other and it was the draw.   
Like I said, she's a good friend of mine and we are playing doubles with each other this week.   What can I say?   It's just unfortunate.   One of us had to win, and today it was me.   So there's nothing I can say, you know.   These are things that you just cannot control.   Like I say, it's really unfortunate.   
I wish I could have played someone else in the first round, not her, but that's the way it is.   
   
 Q.   What are your impressions of the match?   
JELENA JANKOVIC:   I think I played pretty well in the first set and I was in control.   I was, you know, hitting the ball very solid.   
In the second set, my serve was not as good.   She was able to take‑‑ you know, she had a lot of opportunities, and she was able to, you know, get some strikes and opportunities to attack.   
But I was able to stay strong and hang in there in those tough moments and win the second set.   So overall, I'm happy with the win.   It's never easy playing your friend, your doubles partner, and as well, first rounds are always very tough just, you know, feeling the court, you know, playing in Diamond Center Court.   It's very big.   It's different.   The balls are different for us.   
Overall getting through the different conditions, it's not easy, but, you know, I'm happy I was able to get through this round.  
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts on your second‑round matchup?  
JELENA JANKOVIC:   Who am I playing?   Niculescu?   
I played against her I think last year in Miami.   She's a tricky opponent.   She has a different style of game from the other girls.  
She plays a lot of slices and dropshots, and it's going to be, you know, a tough match.   I want to focus on my tennis and play as aggressive as I can and focus on what I do, what I do best, and go for my shots and control the points.  
So we will see how it goes.   I don't think I'm playing tomorrow, so I get a day to train and just work on my game, and then I'll be ready for my next round.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT