WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 13, 2012
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







P. SHUAI/J. Jankovic
  5‑7, 7‑5, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Talk about your frustration today having five chances to close out the match in the tiebreak. 
JELENA JANKOVIC:   Yeah, it's really frustrating, you know, to end the match in this way.   I had a of lot chances, and somehow I couldn't finish the match off. 
That was, you know, really tough and disappointing.   So there is nothing you can do right now, but that's something that I'm now in this moment because I have‑‑ it's a lack of confidence, and you know when I come to the finish line I'm just not able to finish in a good way and really execute my shots and do what I'm supposed to do.
Because I had everything under control and I fought well and I was staying in the match.   I came so close, and I just needed one point to put it away.   There was some shots that I could have, you know, done, you know, a lot better, but I didn't.
So she took the advantage and won. 

Q.   You took a 2‑0 lead in the third set and then the rain hit just when you looked like you were getting it together and building momentum.   Did that affect you at all?
JELENA JANKOVIC:   You know, yeah, it's difficult to say now when I just lost.   You know, obviously I started very well in the third set and took the lead 2‑Love.   You know, it's difficult to say, you know, if the rain affected me or not. 
But I was still fine.   After the rain delay I came back and I had 4‑2 lead, and then somehow I was able to ‑‑ I didn't hold my serve when I needed to because I was serving inconsistent.   There was like a lot ups and downs with my serve. 
When my first serve was going in, you know, I had a high percentage of winning the points.   And I had, I don't know, maybe nine aces; but at the same time I had nine or ten double faults, which didn't help.   She had only two. 
So from my part, that gave her a lot of gifts.   Those are the things that are in my control.   When you come up to the service line and you serve, it's all up to you to do a good motion and hit a good serve, first or second.
At times when I needed, I didn't.   I wasn't able to make the first serve.   Then a lot of double faults were coming up.   She took those opportunities and I didn't have a high winning percentage on my second serve.
So the first one was very important for me to get a lot of those in.   But when I needed them, they didn't go my way.

Q.   The double faults, were they something tactical?   Were you tired?   Was it nerves?
JELENA JANKOVIC:   No, it's just a matter of accelerating and just executing the shots.   It's all in my control.   Nobody is rushing me; it's all up to me to do it.
So I got to train more and I got to get confidence in that shot.

Q.   So after a match like this, how much do you go back and re‑watch things, or is it all about forward?
JELENA JANKOVIC:   Yeah, it's difficult.   You know, when you lose a match like this, it's really frustrating because if I didn't fight, if I wasn't trying really hard and if I wasn't‑‑ if I played really awful then I would be okay.   I had no chance and the girl was really better and the match was completely in her control. 
But I came so close and I did everything I could to put myself in the position to win the match.   I just couldn't win the last point, so it hurts. 
I just got to learn from it and try to move on.   That's what I can do, because obviously US Open is coming up and I got to stay mentally, you know, strong and just continue to work hard and to believe in myself and we'll see how it goes. 

Q.   What are the things you did well today, do you think? 
JELENA JANKOVIC:   My first serve at times, when it was going well I was able to, you know, win a lot games, you know, with just the first serve and.   You know, those aces that I made, they were pretty good.
You know, I moved pretty well, which I wasn't able to do that in the last couple of months.   I didn't feel like I was moving well.   You know, I was playing pretty good tennis.   I was controlling the points, the game, and waiting for my chance to pull the trigger.
But it's like a lot of, you know, ups and downs.   And I tend to somehow ‑‑ like in this match I was playing very well when I was behind, but when I went up the lead I wasn't able to play as well.
So that's something that I got to work on and improve. 

Q.   How often do you read Serbian media when you're on the road, or do you at all?   Do expectations from fans at home affect you?
JELENA JANKOVIC:   To be honest, I don't really read, you know, newspapers about myself.   I read about different things, articles about whatever is going on in the world.
But I don't like to read articles about myself, because if they are good or bad, I don't like to just put things in my mind.   If they're saying good things then I will just think so highly of myself, which sometimes is not true. 
Then when they put me down, it's also not good for my confidence, myself esteem and all that.
So I prefer to stay away from those kind of things.   It's better for my mind I feel.   I like to read about other people or other things, but about myself I prefer to stay out of it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT