ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 9, 2012
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. WOZNIAK/J. Jankovic
  6‑2, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How bad was your back today?   Was it your back?
JELENA JANKOVIC:   Yeah, I had, you know, a little bit of a problem, but it's okay.   I still was able to stay in the court and, you know, play the match.

Q.   What were your thoughts on the match?
JELENA JANKOVIC:   Wozniak played, you know, pretty well.   She was solid.   I was, you know, not in the top of my game, and I didn't‑‑ you know, I feel like I was struggling on my side of the net.   You know, there was a lot of things I could have done a lot better. 
I didn't serve well, I got broken so many times, I made a lot of double faults, and, you know, there was a lot of things that were in my control that I didn't do and, you know, she took advantage of that.   She took her opportunities, and, you know, obviously won the match.   So it was, you know, difficult. 
You know, I was trying to find a way.   You know, during, you know, those days when you don't feel so well, you don't feel the ball well and your game is not there, those are the times when you have to somehow find a way to get through these kind of matches.
But I wasn't able to do that.   She was the better one.

Q.   Is she improving?
JELENA JANKOVIC:   To be honest, I don't know, you know, because I didn't play against her for a long time.   I don't know how she played before that, if she's improving or not.
So probably she can tell you that better.   She's in her own skin, and she plays her tennis.   I can only talk on my behalf.

Q.   I was going to ask about the same question.   It was your fifth game against Wozniak.   Would you say you saw a better or different Wozniak today?
JELENA JANKOVIC:   Our fifth match? 

Q.   You played four times against her before today. 
JELENA JANKOVIC:   Yeah, I won them all, but to be honest, I played against her two years ago.

Q.   Wimbledon. 
JELENA JANKOVIC:   So it's difficult to say.   So much goes on.   You know, we play so many matches in between, and a lot of things change and we obviously get older and more experience.
So there's a lot of things that, you know, are better that improve, but, you know, she's playing ‑‑I cannot tell, you know, if she's better or not.   This is difficult.   I'm also not the coach.   Who am I to comment on that? 
But, you know, all I can comment is on her performance today, that she played very well and she was very solid.   She did what she had to do to win the match.   That's what matters.

Q.   Just wondering how you feel about yourself, your game, your health and everything from now into the US Open. 
JELENA JANKOVIC:   I have been training really hard, and I felt really good on the practice court.   I was really executing my shots and, you know, I felt great.
Then for some reason when I came inside, you know, the match court, I wasn't, you know, doing the same things.   You know, a lot of my shots broke down, and it wasn't the same. 
So I wasn't able to find the key.   You know, first of all when it comes just to my side of the net, the things that, you know, like the serve, nobody can rush me and nobody can, you know, do something to get that shot worse.   It's just everything is in my control.   And if I can serve well in practice and I go and play the match and I make so many double faults and I don't make a lot of first serves in and I'm pretty much playing the whole match with a second serve, it's not the greatest scenario.
So like I said, it was not easy to be there, and I tried to stay as positive as I could, you know, to fight, and I was fighting at the end.   It maybe could have been a different story if I won that game at 5‑3, because it was very close, and I had the feeling that if I win that game to be break 5‑4 and I'm serving, maybe I can turn the match around and, you know, we can maybe get into a third.   But it was my illusions and, you know, something that I was, you know, thinking about when I was playing, but unfortunately I wasn't able to do that.   That's it.
You know, but that's tennis as a sport.   You're going to have good days and bad days, but in those bad days, you know, the best ones are able to find a way to win and get through.   So I wasn't able to do that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT