DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN
February 20, 2012
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. JANKOVIC/P. Cetkovska
  6‑2, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Nice way to start the week.   
JELENA JANKOVIC:   Yeah, nice way to start the week.   You know, I'm happy to be even on the court.   I had an injury that I got in the Fed Cup.   I didn't know how long it would take.   It was pretty speedy recovery for me.   I'm glad, you know, I even got to be on the court.   
I was able to move well, and, you know, play some good tennis, even though the conditions were tough.   The wind was swirling and the balls were really moving all over the court.   I just focused well and won the match.  
She's been playing pretty well in, I don't know, the last year or so.   She's a tough opponent, so I'm glad I got a win over her.  
   
 Q.   Is the secret of having a good year staying healthy and fit for you?  
JELENA JANKOVIC:   Yeah, I wish.   You know, that's my biggest wish, to stay healthy.   But sometimes some things you cannot control, like, you know, like that.   In Fed Cup I almost tore a muscle.   I had a 5.5 centimeter tear.   Right now I still have maybe one centimeter, but that's good.   For me it's good.   
So I'm able to go on court and play, and just hopefully be better and better.   
   
 Q.   Safe to play with it like that?  
JELENA JANKOVIC:   Yeah, I have tape.   I have tape that restricts it.   Obviously it's not the same as if I was playing without, but I don't complain.   I'm just happy I can go on court and perform.   
I love playing here in Dubai.   It's one of my favorite places to play.   
   
 Q.   Was it a concern that it's quite cold at night with the injury?   
JELENA JANKOVIC:   Yeah, obviously it's better when it's warmer.   That's obviously healthier for all of us.   Tonight was pretty cold for a place like this.   In Dubai it's usually warmer.   
But, you know, it was the way it is.   It was windy, it was cold, and I tried to move my feet and make little steps and always tried to be on the ball, even though sometimes you set up and the ball just swirls.   
I just tried overall to play smart tennis and not to go for too much, and when I had the balls accelerate a little bit.  
And as well I served pretty well compared to the wind.   You know, sometimes I toss it and it doesn't go where you want it.   
Overall it was a good match.  
   
 Q.   You own a place here, don't you?  
JELENA JANKOVIC:   (Smiling.)  
   
 Q.   Do you stay there?   
JELENA JANKOVIC:   I don't ‑‑ these are private questions.   
   
 Q.   Does it help your tennis?  
JELENA JANKOVIC:   Obviously helps your tennis when you are playing in places you spend time and you love being at and you feel very welcome and the people are nice.   You feel comfortable.  
   
 Q.   Is it good for training?  
JELENA JANKOVIC:   It's very good for training.   Weather is great and you can prepare well, and as well enjoy some time off the court as well.  
   
 Q.   Because Roger Federer has a place here, and he prefers to stay at a hotel because if he stays at home he feels like he's kind of semi on vacation.   Just wondered if you feel the same way?  
JELENA JANKOVIC:   No, I feel like I'm at the tournament.   I am here to compete for right now.   There are times when you can enjoy, but I am here to play and I am here to compete.  
   
 Q.   You know the city very well.   Do you have a few favorite spots here?   What do you enjoy doing here most?  
JELENA JANKOVIC:   Actually I wanted to go shopping with my mother but I didn't have time yet.   I was scheduled tonight.   I really enjoy that.   
Just spending time outdoors as well.   It's been crazy dust the last couple of days.   I think I have eaten a kilo of dust the other day when I was training.   (Smiling.)  
But that's the way it is here in the desert.  
   
 Q.   Did it taste good?  
JELENA JANKOVIC:   It was kind of like, how do you say, like not the same as some of the deserts, but...  
   
 Q.   How aware are you of the match beforehand?   And does seeing a great player like Sveta lose sort of play on your mind as you go out on the court, or do you try and block that out?  
JELENA JANKOVIC:   You know, it's tough to think about the other players.   Every match is different.   Sveta lost, but it was a good match.   They played both pretty well.   Sveta played very well, you know.   
But, you know, that's tennis.   Sometimes you win; sometimes you lose.   You know, we've been‑‑ we've learned over the years to deal with that.   You know, that's sport.   
In the tournament, there is only one winner at the end of the week, so you try to stay as long is a possible and you hope that at the end you will be the one.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT