AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2012
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/J. Jankovic
  6‑0, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   Was there anything about Caroline's game tonight that surprised you?   
JELENA JANKOVIC:   No, nothing really surprised me.   I knew what to expect.   I mean, she was very solid off the baseline.   You know, she was, you know, not giving me anything, and, you know, especially in the first set I was just making errors and errors.   
I just couldn't, you know, play those long, long rallies, and I was always the first one to kind of, you know, give up on the balls and kind of make the mistakes.  
You know, I saw the statistics, you know, after the match.   I had like 50 unforced errors and she had like 15.   That's a huge difference.   Here and there, you know, as well in the first set I had lots of games like 40‑15, and I was too, you know, erratic at times.   Just I couldn't, you know, play consistent, you know, a few points well and keep it under control.  
Then in the second set, you know, I started playing more aggressively and I started going for my shots a lot more.   But, you know, little unlucky here and there.   I went for too much for those drop volleys and made a mistake.   It didn't happen for me.   I lost 7‑5.   
But I think overall, playing the night match, the court was a lot slower.   So I think it really suited her.   The ball wasn't really flying throughout air, so really the points were really long and there was just a lot of hitting.   
Against a player like that who doesn't really give you anything, and especially with my cold, it was so hard for me to breathe.   At times when I had to run, you know, those balls were like 20 rallies.  
It was really difficult for me.   But I really tried my best.   It didn't happen, and obviously I have to do certain things a lot better, you know, against those kind of players that they make every ball in and don't really give you many gifts.   
   
 Q.   I have seen you had tissues at a lot of your matches here.   Is this something that just started recently or it's been going on?   
JELENA JANKOVIC:   Yeah, it's been already for a week or 10 days.   Since I came here in Melbourne.   It's really bothering me.   I really don't know what to do.   
Especially when you're playing top players, you really have to be 100% ready and every little thing counts.   Obviously this cold doesn't help, especially playing Wozniacki, who ‑‑ you know, she's‑‑ when you play her, you've got to be in the court for many balls.   
I mean, she's the player that retrieves; the best defensive player out there; really gets every ball in.   I mean, she rarely makes any mistakes.  
It was difficult for me.   I wish we maybe played, you know, during the day where the ball would, you know, fly faster through the air so the points would be a little bit shorter, but unfortunately it didn't happen.  
   
 Q.   Now you have some time to focus on winning a second mixed doubles Grand Slam title.   
JELENA JANKOVIC:   When are we on?   Do you know?   
   
 Q.   I don't know.   I haven't looked.   
JELENA JANKOVIC:   Yeah, it's gonna be fun.   Like a little consolation.   We're both out of singles.  
   
 Q.   Have you already made up your mind about next week, Fed Cup in Belgium?   Are you gonna play?   
JELENA JANKOVIC:   I just lost, you know, the match.   You know, I really haven't thought about that.   I'm still fresh from losing, you know, tonight.   
So, yeah, obviously Fed Cup is nice, and it's nice to play for your country.   So just in a little bit when I just come down, you know, I will be thinking about, you know, the future, you know, events.  
   
 Q.   How about your win of the mixed doubles?   
JELENA JANKOVIC:   I don't know if that's gonna happen.   (Smiling.)  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT