U.S. OPEN
September 1, 2011
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. JANKOVIC/J. Dokic
  6-3, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Seems like you said your ankle was good. When you get to the US Open your back hurts. Is this a hard court thing for you?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I don't know. You know, today I felt a little stiff in my back, and, you know, there was a little problem there.  
 But I tried to just think about my game and focus on every point, and I was able to win that match which is the most important thing.  
  
  Q. You've had a lot of treatment on court for your back at this tournament, have you not?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: No, just this match.  
  
  Q. Just this match?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Yeah, just this match. I haven't had any treatment before that.  
  
  Q. What are your thoughts going forward? Will it hurt your chances going forward, or is this...   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I have a day off tomorrow, and, you know, I will just try to receive some treatment and feel the, you know, the best as possible for my next match.  
 I think I will be okay.  
  
  Q. When did this happen?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: It happened in the first set, in the beginning of the first set. You know, I felt a little restricted when I was hitting my serves, and especially when I had to bend down for the returns when I was waiting to return her serves.  
 So it gave me some trouble, but like I said, I tried to play the tennis and I didn't really think about, you know, the problem that I had. I just wanted to continue, and I gave my best.  
  
  Q. So you woke up today fine?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Yes, I woke up today fine. It happened, you know, suddenly in the match.  
  
  Q. How do you feel now?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I feel okay now. You know, I just received some treatment. I think I will be fine to play, you know, my next round.  
  
  Q. What treatment beyond massage? Electric stimulation?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I don't know. That's like the physio stuff to do. Okay, guys, I'm gonna tell you all these things. Oh, the massage with this they do that, pull my finger. (Laughter.)  
 I don't know. That's their job to do. I'm a tennis player, and I play my -- I do my job and the physios do theirs.  
  
  Q. What's it like to play a player whose serve just unravels? Dokic said that off the ground she felt she played better than you, but her serve killed her.   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: That's what she said? She played better than me off the ground?   
  
  Q. Yes, she did.   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Okay. I think her serve was, you know, very inconsistent. You know, she would give me a lot of free points on that stroke.  
 So I really, you know, felt comfortable, you know, on the ground playing my shots. When I was able to dictate, especially when I kind of lift up my level of play up, I would kind of be on a roll and kind of control the whole game.  
 But then like I said, you know, I had some problems, and then I was kind of -- I would kind of stop and I wouldn't move as much. Then my serve, I started double faults as well because I couldn't push off.  
 As far as for the game, you know, I felt, you know, good. I didn't feel that -- I felt comfortable and in control, even though at times I was down 3-1 and 4-2 in the second. It was just a matter of me, you know, focusing a little more and kind of lifting a little, you know, my game of play.  
 Because especially in the beginning of the first set I thought I made a lot of mistakes and I kind of gave it to her, you know, and she took the lead.  
 As soon as I started playing more solid and started dictating the points a lot more, then it was all me out there.   
 So I'm happy with my win, and I look forward to my next round.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT