BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 13, 2011
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. JANKOVIC/J. Goerges
  6-2, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Your level was pretty good.  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Pretty much happy with the way I'm playing in this moment. My tennis is improving. I had a tough opponent. She hits the ball pretty big and serves very well. I was happy hold my ground and play my shots, play my tennis.   
 So, you know, I'm happy to be in the fourth round, and look forward to playing again on Monday.   
  
  Q. Your confidence level looks up on the big shots and important moments. You're going for what you need to.   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Yeah, I feel like my confidence is rising. I still, you know, feel that I can play much better, but I'm on the right track. You know, my tennis is getting better and better, and that is a positive thing.   
 So I can just continue to work hard, and, you know, believe in myself and work on certain things in my game. I'll probably be going even higher.  
  
  Q. You want to talk about playing Ana?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: You know, it's just gonna be another match, you know. I just want to continue to play my tennis and really focus on my game and not really, you know, worry about, you know, my opponent who is across the, you know, the other side of the net.   
 Like I said, it's gonna be another match, and I just want to play, you know. I want to enjoy my tennis like I've been doing.  
  
  Q. How do you do that? You guys have a long history.   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: You know, we been getting older. You know, it's...   
  
  Q. Last time you played her, it was somewhat controversial, too.   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: No, I don't really think about that. I don't want to comment on that. Like I said, it's gonna be another match, and I just want to play my tennis. I don't really -- you know, I have been working very hard, I have been training, you know, and, this is a tournament, you know, I really want to play well in.   
 I have a tough opponent ahead of me, and I just want to try to play the best that I can. I will see how things will go.  
  
  Q. What do you mean you have been getting older?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Yeah, I mean, it's just another match, you know. It's like we have been playing so many times against each other, so I don't think -- you know, maybe in the beginning we were like, Okay, we come from the same country, but now it's -- you know, you kind of get experienced and you look at it in different way.   
 I guess that's my kind of philosophy.  
  
  Q. You can look at her just as a regular player? I mean, you were No. 1, she was No. 1. I mean, it's not like she's your standard...   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Why not? There is other players who have been No. 1 who have been, you know, opponents, you know, that I've played against. So it's -- like I said, she's gonna be a tough opponent, and I want to play my tennis.   
 You know, we'll see how things will go. I just want to be focused on my game.  
  
  Q. Compared to winning the Championships last year, do you feel different compared to where you're playing now and when you won last year? How are you feeling?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I feel good. I'm healthy. I enjoy my tennis. Like I said, I have been working very hard on my game, you know, in order to come back. My confidence is rising, and it's different, you know. It's tough to compare, you know, from last year.   
 You know, I think I feel more mature. I feel more experienced than last year. I kind of know what I have to go through in order to win, you know, these kind of events. So it's gonna be really tough.   
 You know, I have a tough -- you know, I just want to go one match at a time. I don't really want to think too far ahead, and we will see how it will go.   
  
  Q. Last year with Chip Brooks as your coach you did excellently from here all the way to French; with Andrei, is it still a trial basis?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: We started working with each other just a little bit before Australia, so there was actually not enough. And then we really work hard after Australia for about a month before my events in Dubai and Doha.   
 So, you know, I really started, you know, to see the, you know, the improvement in my game, because I have been really focusing on some things, and, you know, I have been really moving well and trying to, you know, get my game on track again, and my confidence as well is rising.   
 So, you know, with the hard work I have put in, you know, it helps me when I get into the match. I know that I have done a lot of work prior to my matches, you know, to hit my shots, and, you know, believe in myself that I can make those, especially in the important points.  
  
  Q. You're currently Orbitz ambassador, and you have been the face of several fashion campaigns and stuff. How do you find mixing tennis and fashion?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: It's, you know, to do something different. I'm a girl, and I enjoy that kind of stuff. It's nice to, you know, dress up, and, you know, experiment your looks, and, you know, do some shoots and stuff like that. It's a lot of fun.   
 You know, it's different, you know, to tennis. Obviously my tennis is my No. 1 priority. Tennis is what I do best. But there is other things that I kind of enjoy, as well. So there's nothing wrong with it.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT