DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN
February 17, 2011
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. JANKOVIC/K. Kanepi
  2-6, 6-3, 7-5 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Could you go through the match for us? You had a very interesting match.   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Yeah, overall it was very interesting, and I'm thrilled to win this kind of a battle. She was leading a set, and I don't know what the score was, but I managed to win the second set.  
 But then it was 5-3 in the third and she served for the match. She was up 30-15, and I just kept fighting and fighting. I tried to stay positive and really, you know, dig deep out there. That's what I did.   
 To be honest, I'm just happy that I was able to get out today as a winner, because I've lost to her quite a few times and been injured and been struggling. This win helps me a lot. I'm just so happy.   
 Hopefully I can just continue.   
  
  Q. Was there a change in temperature today?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: The temperature was quite nice actually. I remember the day we had a players' party it was quite cool out there, so we were freezing. But today was pretty nice and we didn't have to wear anything over the dress.  
  
  Q. Quite a few of the games today have gone three sets, obviously because of the caliber of the field. I think there are 13 of the 16 seeds. So do you reckon that's the quality you're going to need going forward in the quarters, the semis, the final?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: You know, it's tough to judge on that, you know, if it's three sets, you know, that's making the difference. But overall, I think the most important thing is hanging in there and being mentally tough and just, you know, going after your shots and not really having doubts.  
 No matter what, you're going to have days where you're going to play really well and days where you don't really feel your ball. Those are the times you really have to stay strong and just play one point at a time and try to get through. That's what I did.   
 My opponent played is well, especially -- I think she played so well throughout the whole match. She really gave me a hard time. She's really a tough opponent. That shows. I lost the last couple of times against her, so she is really dangerous.   
 So I just tried my best out there today, and really happy to win.   
  
  Q. She's a bit of a heavy hitter.   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Yeah.  
  
  Q. She hits a true ball, so you had to do a fair amount of cracking down and running. You must have been happy with the defense. You're aching now, but you must have been happy.   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Yeah, because she hits the ball really hard. She really can get on top of the ball and really, you know, smack those. It gives me obviously a hard time.   
 Like I said, I tried to really absorb her power and move my feet out there as much as I could. You know, I tried to adjust my game compared to hers as much as, you know, I could.   
 Somehow I did it in the third set. I think I was a little bit stronger than her in the important points at the end, and that helped me win.  
  
  Q. Have you ever experienced a point where the ball goes through the net?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: That was so strange. I thought the ball went under the net, and then the umpire said it was her point. She was fair enough to say the ball went underneath the net.   
  
  Q. Was that after you asked her?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I asked her, you know, Did the ball go -- because maybe when we play the players see it better than the umpire, because he looks left and right. We see it straight, you know.  
 I asked her, you know, Do you think the ball went under the net? And she said, Yes, it did. So it was really fair play from her side. I'm glad about that.   
  
  Q. So it went under or through the net?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I think through or underneath, and then somehow -- I have no idea, but it wasn't a let like a typical let. That's what I thought, or I guess she wouldn't have admitted if it wasn't. I don't know if there was a slow motion, like a replay or something.  
  
  Q. It went through the net.   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Through the net? Under the net?   
  
  Q. Through the top of the tape.   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: It was strange, because if she didn't agree the umpire would have given her the point.  
  
  Q. Good sportsmanship.   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Yeah, good sportsmanship from her.  
  
  Q. In a tight match as well some competitors could have overlooked that.   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I think you would have looked bad because there is slow motion. And if you don't admit it I don't think it's nice. Even though we battle out there, I think it's important to have a fair match.   
 If the ball went underneath, it went underneath. What can you do?   
  
  Q. This isn't Wimbledon, but you had a pretty big smile on your face out there. This is even mid-tournament. Sounds like this victory meant more than normal.   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Yeah, because I haven't played much. Like I said, I've been struggling with injuries and haven't been able to play and go, you know, far in the tournaments. So I been training really hard, and I feel really healthy. I think this match gives me a lot of confidence.   
 Yesterday I was talking about going far in the tournaments and beating the good players. I've lost to her quite a few times. So for me to beat her, it's a great win. I think it will give me a lot more confidence for the future. So I hope to keep going and stay positive out there and keep fighting.   
  
  Q. Tomorrow you're playing Stosur. How do you look at that match?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: She's a tough opponent. She has a strong serve and she has a pretty, you know, big game. But I have to try to play my tennis and focus on my game and what I have to do, and just go out there with a smile on my face.  
 I just want to try my best.  
  
  Q. Are we seeing the preinjury game or a different game than you would play a year or two ago?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I think I'm building on it. I still feel like I can improve a lot more. I think that as well with confidence. The more I play, the more wins I get, the more dangerous I get. Then I feel that, you know, nobody can stop me.   
 That's how I kind of get into that zone. Wins are the most important thing. No matter how good you practice and how well you hit the ball in the practice, it cannot compare to playing the match and being under those intense situations and playing those crucial points of the match and really playing those well and coping with the pressure.  
 So, you know, I'm really working on this. I really -- I was able to kind of outperform myself. Really it's a struggle for me mentally, you know, to be, you know, tough and hang in there, stay positive even though I'm down and then come out and win the match.   
 So things look pretty good for me.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT