AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2011
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. PENG/J. Jankovic
  7-6, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. After a good start, it developed into a fight. How did it get away from you in the end?
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Yeah, I was leading I think 4-1 and had everything under my control. I was playing pretty well. But then I just had some, you know, loose errors and she played as well some good points. And little by little, you know, she was getting her momentum, and I started, you know, completely going down. 
 Especially in that tiebreaker, I had chances as well at 5-4. I was 15-30, then missed an easy shot to go 15-40, two breakpoints. Then in the tiebreaker I just made some bad errors at the wrong times. When you add those up, you know, that doesn't give me good. You know, it was a bad day for me. 
 But the good thing for me is that I'm healthy. That's really important for me now, that I'm healthy, that I can really compete, I can be out there. I just have to now continue to work hard and work on my game and really build on my confidence. 
 Hopefully I will get more matches in the future and just keep getting better. 

 Q. You had a difficult second half to last season; this season is a slow start. How discouraging is that?
 JELENA JANKOVIC: No, but last year, especially the last six months of last year, had really a lot of injuries. You know, I twisted my ankle and really couldn't move. Then I had an eye surgery in the off-season. So overall I had a lot of things that kind of took me off the game and didn't allow me to practice and work as well on my fitness, really work on myself. 
 But now that's the past. Now I really feel good physically. I'm healthy. You know, I can really be on the court and enjoy myself out there. You know, it's the beginning of the season, only my third match of the year. I'm still rusty. I just have to get match tough again and play right, you know, in the important times of the match. 
 That was the case today. I just, you know, played some wrong shots, had a wrong selection of shots at important, you know, moments of the match, and that cost me. At the end, my opponent, you know, took her opportunities and was the better one. 

 Q. Is it a matter of fitness when you say you're missing shots you should have made?
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I don't think it's a matter of fitness. You know, I have a bad selection of shots at the wrong times. I couldn't afford to make, you know, the errors that I made, especially at crucial times of the match. 
 I mean, as a top player - I've been No. 1 in the world - it's tough to, you know, sometimes accept those mistakes. Really at times I couldn't believe I can do that, why am I doing that. 
 You know, it's tennis; it's sport. You just have to stay positive. You just have to, you know, learn and keep working hard and hopefully come back. 

 Q. You've played her seven times with six wins. Have you seen any notable improvement in her today?
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I have to be honest, you know, it's hard to remember the last time. 
 But I think she plays, you know, more or less the same game. She plays those flat shots. I was doing fine against her, you know, until I really let her get in the match. Then, you know, she got her confidence and started making a lot more shots in the court, got her momentum going. 
 But, like I said, you know, she was the better one today. I had a bad day. You know, there's nothing I can do now. I just have to go forward. 

 Q. Serbian and Croatian fans were prevented from taking their national flags into Hisense Arena last night. How does that make you feel? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I really don't know what to comment on that. 

 Q. Is it important for you to see a Serbian flag flying in the crowd?
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Well, it's always nice to see. You know, I come from Serbia. It's always nice to see, you know, the fans, those supporters that come out, especially with the flags, and they really cheer us on. I think it's nice to see. 
 It's always nice to see fair play and nice supporters that just keep rooting their players, their favorite players. So that's, you know, what I am about. 

 Q. Could you make a comment about the Chinese player and her performance today?
 JELENA JANKOVIC: She played pretty solid. You know, she hit those flat shots and she really, you know, stayed within herself. After I had the lead, she just started playing more consistently. She wasn't giving me much, and then I kind of went down. I just couldn't find myself anymore. And she continued in that direction. 
 You know, she was the better player today. That's what mattered. She's the one who goes through. 

 Q. Do you think Peng can be a better player with a higher ranking compared with her 50 ranking?
 JELENA JANKOVIC: You have to ask her what she believes, if she can go up there. You know, it's tough to say and comment on one match. Especially for me, you know, after not playing for a long time and it's only my third match of the season. I haven't played. It's not like we're in the middle of the season where I played against a lot of the players and I know how everybody's playing more or less. 
 Now it's just the third match of the season, so I don't know where I'm at, where she's at. I'm just really thinking about myself, what I can do to become, you know, stronger and to become a better player. 

 Q. But are you surprised at all with the level she showed today with some really good tennis?
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Not surprised. I think she can come up with that game. You know, you always have to be alert. Especially, you know, she can come up with some really good shots, with really flat shots. You always have to be careful, you know, that anything can happen out there. 

 Q. You mentioned some injuries last year. Are you worried that you won't be able to regain the game that you had in 2007/2008?
 JELENA JANKOVIC: No. I always believe in myself. The most important thing is that I'm healthy because I can just work on my game and really work on my fitness. Then the more I play, the better I get. I think I will be able to come back and even be a stronger and a better player. 
 I think I can do it. It's just a matter of really believing in myself and going out on the court and, you know, just keep working hard. I mean, without work it's difficult to do it. But now I'm able to do it because I'm healthy. 
 So there is no excuses for me. Just have to continue to go forward. I mean, when things get tough... It's just the beginning of the season. It's not the end of the world. It's not really a big deal. You still have a long way to go. It's many tournaments to play. 
 I will be there. I'm not giving up. I know I can be good and I can beat those players and I can come back to the top. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT