CHINA OPEN
October 4, 2010
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 B. JOVANOVSKI/J. Jankovic
  4-6, 6-2, 6-2 
  
 THE INTERPRETER: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. I just want to know what do you think about this match? Seemed like a very tough game for you. You win the first set, but in the second and third, it seems you have no chance to break her serve. What do you think about her game?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Yeah, it was a tough game. My opponent played really well. She was very solid off of the baseline, and she really gave me a hard time. She kept returning my shots, and I felt that the court was quite slow, so you had to really play long points.  
 In many of those rallies she was the better player because she just could stay in the point longer and run those balls down.  
 I had trouble with my serve. I didn't have a good percentage with my serve, so that as well didn't give me any good.  
 But I just -- you know, since I got injured in Portoroz, since I twisted my ankle, I haven't found my form, and I'm still trying, you know, to get back to the tennis I would like to play, but I'm still not there, and I just have to work hard and get back to the level I want to be.   
  
  Q. Bora Milutinovic, do you have good friendship with him?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I know him since I believe 2007. That was the first time when he came to watch me, and I think he's a big fan of tennis. He loves to come and watch, and especially my matches, and I'm grateful that he can come and watch and support me.   
  
  Q. (Through translation.) In 2003 you came to play in China in Shanghai, and the following year you came to play the China Open. What do you think the difference there is between now the Chinese tennis with that in past few years and what do you think the difference is between the current Jelena and the Jelena a couple years ago?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Between, you know, the China Open now and before, you mean? That was the first question?   
  
  Q. Yes.   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: You know, obviously we have a bigger, you know, tennis center here, and we have many courts. I think we have better facilities than before. But I as well like the old one, and I played well in the old one.   
 As far as the old Jelena and now, it's tough to say. You know, I was -- a couple years ago I was younger. I had a little more energy, and I maybe played better at times, but now I'm more experienced. But in this particular moment here with my tennis, I'm not in good form, and I'm not playing the tennis I would like to play.  
 But I still just can keep my head up high and just continue to work, and I believe I can win China Open again in the future.   
  
  Q. You and your opponent played together in Fed Cup. Talk something about your opponent.   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: My opponent is very young Serbian player, and I think she's doing very well and she's improving. You know, I'm happy for her that, you know, she's doing well and she's improving in the rankings.   
 I know how it feels when you're young and you're moving up, and it's very exciting. You know, every match you win it gives you confidence and motivation to work even harder and be better.  
 So I just wish her the best of luck in the future and as well in this tournament.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT