CHINA OPEN
October 2, 2010
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. JANKOVIC/K. Zakopalova
  7-5, 7-5

 THE INTERPRETER: Questions, please.

 Q. Could you give us a few comments about how you played today, what the conditions were like? It seemed pretty windy out there. 
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Yeah, it was a tough match. First match is always tough, and obviously you cannot expect yourself to play your best tennis, but I just hung in there and I just tried to make as many balls as possible in the court. 
 It was pretty windy, and the rain started a bit, you know, at the end. I was just lucky to finish, you know, and get through this first match. I just look to improve and get better. 

 Q. So what do you think about that you didn't play quite well before the US Open? You didn't play quite also in the US Open. You were expecting that you could actually go farther than last year but you didn't play as well as before. So what do you think about that?
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Yes, after Wimbledon I twisted my ankle, so it took me quite a while to recover and get better. 
 You know, it's not easy after you get injured, especially twisting an ankle. It's difficult injury. It takes time for, you know, to feel comfortable in the court, to run and move as I was moving before, and as well feeling confident and finding my game and finding, you know, the rhythm and to play tennis at a high level, which I can play.
 So, you know, unfortunately, you know, these kind of things happen and you just have to stay positive and work hard to get better. 

 Q. Later into the second set you were growing visibly frustrated with hitting the ball into the net repeatedly, but you still powered through the rest of the match and still won. I was wondering, what was going through your head at that moment to keep yourself motivated?
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Yes, there are times in the match when you feel a little frustrated with the game, with your game. I started making, you know, some errors, but I just tried to hang in there. I just forget what happened, and I just wanted to keep moving, keep going after my shots.
 I wanted to try to make as many balls as possible in the court. I managed to come back. Especially I was down 4-2, then came back and won that set.
 I just stayed strong mentally, and no matter -- you know, if, at times, my game doesn't work, I'm making some errors, but I just keep going, and, you know, I believe that I can get through, which I did. 

 Q. How do you assess eventually reaching the WTA championship in Doha?
 JELENA JANKOVIC: There is still a couple tournaments to play, and playing here at the China Open is very important, so I just want to give my best. We will see how things will go for me. 
 I just want to play my tennis. I don't really put any pressure on myself, and I just want to enjoy it. Hopefully everything will be okay and I will be able to play over there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT