U.S. OPEN
September 4, 2010
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. JANKOVIC/K. Kanepi
  6-2, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. How bad was the wind and how did you try to manage playing into the wind when you were against the wind?
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Oh, the wind was really tough. The conditions were really, really tough, you know, to play. I had a really hard time, you know, hitting the balls. You know, obviously they were going all over the place. The wind was really strong, and she handled these kind of conditions a lot better than I did. 
 You know, that was the case today. It was really tough to play tennis, because, I mean, it's tough to serve, tough to hit the balls. The balls move all over the place, and I had a really hard time over there. Unfortunately, I lost.

 Q. How close to unplayable was it?
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I don't know, but it's, you know, to be honest, you can't -- you know, I had a hard time serving. You toss the ball, and it was all over the place.
 And then you hit the ball one direction, it goes another. You're just getting ready to hit the ball and just moves away from you.
 So it was really hard out there. But like I said, she handled the wind a lot better than I did. She was the better player today. Congrats to her.

 Q. Seems like we always talk about conditions when we talk about the US Open. Is there anything that you think could be done to change things, or is it just the nature of this tournament?
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I don't know. But, you know, I think on Arthur Ashe Stadium the wind is really strong, and you really feel the wind a lot. For me, you know, I don't know how it is for the other players, but it's very hard when the wind is like this. When it's strong, it's very hard to play the game. 
 You know, sometimes you need as well a little bit of luck in there and really try your best to make, you know, as many balls as you can in the court. 
 Unfortunately, I couldn't do that today.

 Q. Coming into this tournament, the women's field just seems so wide open obviously with Serena not being here. When you took a look at your draw, did you say, Okay, this is my chance? I know you've been a finalist, but this is my chance to do this this year. 
 JELENA JANKOVIC: To be honest, I didn't really look too far in the draw. I just wanted to play one match at a time. And especially because I haven't played many matches on hardcourt after Wimbledon, I just wanted to win one match at a time, and then little by little gain my confidence.
 But, you know, today it was really difficult to play, and just, you know, I didn't have a chance, you know, to play good tennis in these kind of conditions. Unfortunately I'm out of the tournament.

 Q. It was your ankle that's been bothering you?
 JELENA JANKOVIC: No, my ankle is not bothering me anymore. I feel good. Just that I still have to improve on my movement. I'm still not moving, you know, as fast as I can move, but I'm working on it. I'll just continue to work hard.

 Q. When there is so much wind, it's more a matter of mental because you get frustrated and nervous, or is it technical also issue?
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I think it's both. You get frustrated with the wind because you want to hit balls, you know, in certain direction, and they go, you know, everywhere except where you want them to go. And then as well it's physical because you have to move your feet a lot more. You have to be alert. 
 You have to really focus, because the ball is moving, you know, everywhere, and, you know, you're just about to hit it and it goes, you know, away from you.
 It's difficult. Like I said, you know, I think my opponent handled the wind a lot better, and she made a lot more balls than I did in the court. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT