U.S. OPEN
September 2, 2010
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. JANKOVIC/M. Lucic
  6-4, 3-6, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. You've had two really good fights. You've come through both. Do you look at matches like this as they can help you get stronger or would you rather get in and out?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Well, yeah, it's tough to say. I'm just glad I was able to get through, and it was another tough match for me today. I had a really tough opponent. She played really well and she was hitting those balls really hard. Really gave me a hard time.   
 So either way, I'm just happy that I was able to win. That's the most important thing. You know, I give myself another chance.  
  
  Q. Are you satisfied with your level or do you have to pick it up?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I have to pick it up. I would like to, with every match, keep improving and picking up the level of my tennis. And I'm working on it.   
 You know, it's a step forward from the first round. I think I played much better than in the first round, so I'm happy with that.   
  
  Q. Not the first time you've had to dig yourself out here early, huh?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Yes, I had many matches in the past where you're down and your opponent plays really well. Sometimes, you know, the conditions are really tough, it's windy, it's hot out there. You just have to give your best, fight for every point and stay positive, just try to get yourself through.   
  
  Q. What is your enjoyment level out there? In the first match, didn't seem like there was a lot of joy. Are you having fun?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Sometimes it's tough to enjoy when it's hot out there, your opponent is playing so well.   
 But still at the time, you know, at certain times of the match I was able to stay positive and I was able to smile at times. You know, I think when I do that, I think I play better and I play more relaxed.   
 You know, I wish I can be more kind of happy out there and kind of with an even more positive attitude. But I'm working on it. Especially when it's a tough match, things are not sometimes going the way you want them to, you have to try your best.   
 But the most important thing is to be able to win.   
  
  Q. The top seed here, Wozniacki, she's never won a major before. You've tried yourself to be a top seed without a major under your belt. What is it like to be a top seed with those expectations not having won a slam?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: What does that matter?   
  
  Q. I don't know. You tell me.   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Well, I'm just here to play, and I'm really give my best. You know, I always believe in myself. I would like to win a Grand Slam. You know, there is no difference if you won a Grand Slam or you didn't win a Grand Slam. You're here to play.   
 It's just the beginning of the tournament. So you have many more rounds to play and anything can happen.   
  
  Q. What did you think of her level of play? Were you surprised by the quality of play from her?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: She played really well. I knew that she hits the ball so hard. But she really gave me a hard time out there. She really kept hitting those balls. At times when they were going in, it was really difficult for me.   
 I just tried to pick those balls up, you know, tried to stay down and hold my ground as much as I could. It was difficult time for me out there, to be honest. But I was just able to, you know, stay strong, especially that third set, and finish the match in my favor. So I'm pleased with that.   
  
  Q. We, in the media, are always judging the performances of all the players. Let's switch that around. What kind of job do you think the media does? Do you think we do a great, fabulous job telling your story or do we piss you off? What do you think?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: You piss me off (laughter).   
 I think you guys do a great job, you know, sharing the stories, you know, what we have to say, what we have done, different kind of things, interesting things. And I believe that you're always looking for some interesting stories to write. You're not looking for boring stuff. You're always trying to get some things that you can write that are going to sell the papers.  
  
  Q. Do you think you do a good job in supplying us with the stories?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Who, me?   
  
  Q. Yes.   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: You tell me if I do a good job giving you stories (laughter).   
  
  Q. Tell us more about your house in San Diego.   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I'm here to play (laughter). I'm at the US Open. We're in New York. I'm just excited to be here. I'm really not thinking in this moment about any other things except playing my matches and really giving my best.   
  
  Q. (Question regarding Ana Ivanovic.)  
JELENA JANKOVIC: It's great for Serbian tennis. I'm happy she's doing well. I hope we can continue like this. It's been quite a while since we've all been quite far in the tournament. I think it's been two years.   
 There were times when there were three of us in the semifinals, finals. It would be good so that we can go into tournaments and do really good again.  
  
  Q. Did you watch Janko's match?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I thought he played really well. It was an amazing match. Really, congratulations to him. He was just really on his game last night. He was really impressive.   
 Really happy for him that he was able to win. It was a really good win for him. Is not easy playing Andy Roddick here on a night match, American crowd. It was really tough. But I think Janko handled it very well. He did a great job, so congrats to him.   
  
  Q. How much do you know about his game?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Can I please talk about myself? We go to ATP tennis, San Diego house. Guys, I'm tired. I just played a three-hour match.   
  
  Q. A couple of wins into a slam, is it tempting for you to look deeper into your quarter to see what potentially could be waiting for you?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: To be honest, I'm just looking, you know, my next round. I'm not really looking too far ahead. I just want to go one match at a time and focus on what I have to do.   
 Tomorrow I have a day off, so I will work on my game, try to clean up some things in my game and try to play a better match the next day, Sunday. That is my goal.   
 I hope to be lifting my game, to keep improving every time. That is what I strive to do. Hopefully I will be able to do that.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT