WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP WOMEN'S OPEN
August 12, 2010
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. AMANMURADOVA/J. Jankovic
  7-6, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. The match didn't end the way you wanted it to. Can you talk about that and what you felt you were struggling with today. 
 JELENA JANKOVIC: You know, it was a tough match, especially physically. It was very hot out there. You know, it was really hard to be on the court and to, you know, really keep the focus. 
 Especially I thought that my opponent played really well. She served very well. I thought that that was the key actually, because I didn't really have much chance when I was returning. 
 And then at times when I was serving I would have some, you know, bad errors and she would -- you know, it was a few points here and there, and that ended up in a negative result for me. 
 So unfortunately I lost today, and it's okay. It's part of the sport. 

 Q. Did her serving surprise you a little bit? Was it more effective than she had been previously?
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I don't know, I never played against her. Like I said, the key to today's match was I really didn't return well and her serves were really accurate. I didn't really have much chance. When I had the chances I didn't really take them, especially when I had -- when I was able to hit the return, I would make mistakes.
 So unfortunately I didn't do what I was supposed to do. She was a better player today. 

 Q. Where does her serving rank compared to some of the other matches played? The stats show 12 aces and 0 double faults. 
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Yeah, I mean, she serves pretty well. It's just that, you know, maybe she is pretty tall, so, you know, when the ball hits it bounces a little higher. So it has a bigger how you call it arc so it doesn't come as low or it comes more... 
 So I don't know how to really explain it. Her serve is pretty good. She's a tall girl, and I think her serve is her best stroke. She did that well today. I didn't return well and I had some, you know, bad errors and bad service games myself, some double faults. 
 Unfortunately wasn't able to stay in the match. 

 Q. Because she's such a big powerful girl, she seems to have a variety of drop shots. Because she's so big and powerful, did it surprise you more than usual when she hit dropshots?
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Yeah, she hit a couple dropshots, but I thought when I was able to just stay in the point, you know, I had -- I was able to win most of the points. But most of the time I just made errors from the return or she served really well.
 So there wasn't really much playing going on there. It was more or less one or two strokes. 

 Q. With how well she played today, are you surprised she's not in the top 100?
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I don't know how she plays during the year, throughout the year. It was my first time to play against her. I didn't, you know, play, you know, well myself, so it was hard to say, you know, compared to her.

 Q. Do you feel like you're still getting over the injury in the layoff? Does that play a role?
 JELENA JANKOVIC: No, my injury is doing good. I'm healthy now in this moment. It's just a matter of getting matches and playing -- being in this kind of situations, you know, challenging myself. 
 Hopefully I will do better in my next tournament. That will be my last preparation tournament before the US Open, so hopefully I can do better over there.

 Q. Have you thought ahead to the US Open? 
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Not really. Not yet. You know, I was -- you know, I really love to do well here, but unfortunately I didn't. 
 But, you know, just gonna work and hopefully be better in my next tournament.

 Q. I believe six of top seven seeds have now fallen. Does that speak to the competitiveness of the field, or is there anything else that links why there was an early exit for so many top-seeded players?
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I don't know. It's tough to say. We all have our own things. Somebody is coming from injury; somebody is maybe tired. We all have our own things that, you know, we're dealing with. It's hard to say why like six out of seven fell out.
 Also I think the conditions here are quite tough. So if it's -- you know, just playing it's okay. But also, you know, the heat plays a huge factor as well, and the humidity. So you have to be able to survive out there and do your best in these kind of conditions. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT