WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2010
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. JANKOVIC/A. Bondarenko
  6-0, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. The injury, it's above the knee?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: No, it's fine. You know, I had some pain during the match after first set, but hopefully it will be, you know, all right.   
 I have maybe two days to rest and get some treatment. Hopefully everything will be okay.  
  
  Q. Obviously you were world No. 1, and then you went on some sort of fitness program in order to try and get stronger, did you, and that didn't quite have the results that you wanted?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Yeah, but that was the past. You know, that's, you know, a good learning experience. You always try to do something in order to get better. You're always seeking for new things to add to your game, to, you know, get stronger physically, to be faster, and all of those things.  
 But, um, you know, now in this moment I'm doing well. I'm not really thinking about any of those things. I'm back to my normal training routine. I'm happy with how I'm playing.   
 Today was a good performance for me, so I'm just happy to get through this round. I look forward to playing in the next.  
  
  Q. But because you're now playing well, do you regret sort of experimenting with that side?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Yeah, but you always do things thinking that it's gonna do good for you. You never go into a process thinking that's gonna be bad for and you have a negative effect.   
 You're always trying to, like I said, become better as a tennis player. I think each year the game is improving, and so you have to always try to improve as well. If not, you're gonna be left behind. But, you know, I don't really regret anything. It's just, you know, sometimes things work out; sometimes they don't.   
 But I'm back on track, and that's the most important thing. I'm doing well in this moment. I'm No. 3 in the world, which is really not bad.   
  
  Q. It seems like you're very happy on court with the way that you're playing.   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Yeah, I'm happy with the way that I'm playing in this moment. Especially today, in that first set I played really well. That's the game I would like to play. That's the real me.   
 That's something that, you know, I was working for a while: trying to play more aggressively, serving well, and playing go very well in the returning games and coming to the net. So I think I did overall pretty well today. I hope I can continue like that.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT