BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 21, 2010
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. JANKOVIC/C. Wozniacki
  6-2, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Are you going to carry it on?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I think they're going to ship it.  
  
  Q. Now you have something new to put in the living room in San Diego.   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Yeah, I have something new to put in my trophy room. That will be great. I think it's beautiful, and I'm happy to add it to my collection.  
  
  Q. So do you feel like you're back now as an elite player?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Sorry?   
  
  Q. Do you feel like you're back as a top-level player after this tournament?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Yeah, I don't think you can win this tournament and not play well or, you know, if you don't do something right.  
 I mean, this is the fifth biggest tournament that we have on the tour, so I must have done something right here, I guess.   
  
  Q. It seemed like when you went on the court you knew exactly what you had to do, you had beaten her three times. The match was pretty much in your hands and she really couldn't hurt you.   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Yeah, I think I was ready from the start. I really went out there knowing my game plan, what I needed to do. I wanted to be really aggressive, but at the same time patient and not really go for too much or, you know, go over the limit with some balls.  
 But I waited for my opportunities, and when I had them, I took them. That was what I did.   
 I've seen, you know, the last couple of matches that she has played, so I kind of knew what I needed to do. You know, I think that I have done a great job today.  
  
  Q. So what's the deal? You're a world-class athlete, been on the tour a long time, and can go for hours on court. Couldn't lift the trophy. What happened?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I know. It's amazing. You know, I haven't been working out in the gym lately. I think that's the deal, you know. I've been, you know, working on my footwork, on my strokes, but I haven't been lifting weights.  
 I think Caroline could have done a better job. She should have helped.   
  
  Q. Was that a real setback to your self-image not to be able to lift it in front of...   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I don't think -- for tennis, when you are a tennis player, I don't think you have to be -- you know, you don't have to lift heavy weights.   
 When I do my workouts I do with light weights, you know. I try to be explosive. I don't want to be, you know, bulky. You know, I don't play well when I look like that.  
 So that that's just me. There are other players that are different, and that is just the way I train. I couldn't lift that, so I guess, you know, it's okay.   
 You know, it's nothing to be embarrassed about. (laughter.)  
  
  Q. It is a little ironic that you went through that period where you were really trying to bulk up and it didn't really work for you.   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: You know, if you kind of analyze, you know, I'm one of the smallest ones. Now maybe Henin will be probably again in the top 10, but I'm one of the smallest ones in the top 10.   
 All the girls are so strong. They work so hard in the gym. I tried to do the same, you know, to be bigger, to be stronger.   
 But it didn't really -- I couldn't move. I lost my speed, and, you know, it didn't really help me.  
 So I learned my lesson. I know what I don't need to do. I just stick to my old training. I think that's what gives me results.  
  
  Q. You came into the tournament not in the greatest mood. You had the tough loss in Monterrey. What happened in the last two weeks to make you happy again to find your game again?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I've been working on my game. You know, in the practice court, you know, I felt really well. I was, you know, feeling my ball and I was really moving my feet and getting better and better, and my goal was to transfer that to the matches. You know, it's not the same, practicing and playing the matches.  
 Then I had really a wakeup call against Errani. I think that was my toughest match here. I was two points away from losing the match. I fought really hard in that one.   
 I really stayed strong mentally and was able to get through that one. And then I said, you know, I was making some mistakes, you know, and I realize that. Then I really learned my lesson, what I shouldn't do in my next, you know, match. Then I kept going on and on.  
 But then, you know, I really cut down those errors and those things that I wasn't doing right. You know, I was talking to my coaches, to the team, and I think I cleaned up some of the things in my game, and overall was getting more and more confident with each match, and, you know, took the title.   
 I guess that's what happened here.  
  
  Q. $700,000, that has to be an immense help on the home in San Diego.   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Yeah, unbelievable.  
  
  Q. Are you building it or are you buying it?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Yeah, I'm building it. It's amazing. It's a huge check I'm getting. I worked really hard for that, so I'm really, really happy.  
  
  Q. What stage is the home at?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Getting close to putting a roof on.   
  
  Q. You also decided to play doubles this week. How did that partnership happen, and do you plan to play more doubles in the future?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I would like to play some more doubles in the future. I think that helps my game. I've been trying to play more aggressive, and, you know, come in when I had time, when I had opportunities to come in. That's what I'm looking to improve and getting better at.  
 I think doubles, it's also great way to do that. You practice your volleys, your returns, your serves, and you -- I think it's great. So I will try to play, you know, when I can.   
 I don't have a ranking. I have only two tournaments. I need three to get on the board. We will see, you know.  
  
  Q. How did you choose Tathiana to play with?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: She asked me to play. I said, Why not? She's a really nice girl and can play doubles, and that's what happened.  
  
  Q. Which of the majors do you think you have the best chance of winning?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I don't know. I think if I continue to play like that, I have a chance. I like to play on clay courts, I like to play on hardcourts. I don't know. We'll see what will happen.   
 I just want to continue to work hard and to keep building, you know, my game, and I think I'm getting better and better.  
  
  Q. Does it matter to you if you're a top 5 player?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I don't think, you know, for me at this moment -- the ranking doesn't really matter to me. I'm looking to playing some good tennis and really doing the right things out there.   
 And if I'm doing that, you know, I'll be winning big titles and ranking will come on its own.  
 I'm looking to do well in the big events. That is my goal now, and that's something I want to do. I will try my best to achieve that and not really think about ranking or whatever, just think about my game and what I can do to get better as a player.   
  
  Q. You won in Cincinnati last year. Your father was architect of that strategy. Did you get any advice from your mother today?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: My mom is very supportive. You know, I cannot say she's the coach because she doesn't really get involved so much when it comes to the tennis game.  
 But she's very, very positive woman, always gives me positive energy and always is there even when I'm down, when I'm winning. She always gives me words of encouragement and is always there for me.  
 So I really appreciate, you know, her help. It means a lot to me to have her in my box.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT