BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 19, 2010
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. JANKOVIC/S. Stosur
  6-2, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How you feeling? Finals.   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I'm feeling good, and I'm happy to be in the finals. You know, it's my first time to be in the finals here.  
 Looking forward to playing on Sunday.  
  
  Q. You said yesterday that with each match that went by you were gaining more and more confidence. I imagine you're very confident going into the finals now?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Yes, I'm feeling good, you know, going to the finals. You know, I had some tough matches here and some good wins. So, yeah, I'm just gonna try my best, and we'll see what happens.   
 Maybe I can win another title.  
  
  Q. You're going to be playing either Caroline or Agnieszka. Can you talk a little bit about what it's like to play them?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I played both of them. Caroline I played last time in Doha, and I won in two sets. I think I never lost to Caroline before.  
 Radwanska I played maybe only once, you know, also. I don't know, maybe three years ago or something in French Open, and I also won.   
 They're two young players, and they're really good players, as well. They're, you know, hitting the ball very solid, and it's not going to be an easy match whoever it is.   
 But I'm just gonna go out there and play my tennis. I know I can -- you know, I can do well. I just have to stay focused and do what I do best.  
  
  Q. She said after she lost that long game in the fifth game of the first set she started feeling frustrated. Did you sense she was getting frustrated out there?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Who, Stosur?   
  
  Q. Sam, yeah.   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: You know, I don't know. I don't know how she was feeling because I was not really looking at her, you know, what she was doing.  
 I was really focusing on myself and on my game. I thought the keys to today's match was my return. Samantha has an unbelievable serve, one of the best serves in women's game, and I was able to, you know, return a lot of her first serves.   
 I was putting a lot of pressure on her second serve. So I think that was the key, because I was able to break her quite a few times. And then, you know, it made everything easier for me.   
 I think she felt uncomfortable, because she really relies on that shot. That's her best weapon.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT