AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2010
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. BONDARENKO/J. Jankovic
  6-2, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Can you explain where everything went wrong. 
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Well, it was a tough match overall. You know, I think for me it was a big challenge. Kind of an uphill battle for me. I made a lot of errors, especially in the beginning. I thought especially in the beginning of the first I thought I had some opportunities, and she came up with some good shots from the defense. 
 Then, you know, the momentum went in her way in the beginning, which, you know, allowed her to get some confidence. Especially coming into this match I think I had 8-0 or something against her. 
 But overall I struggled. I didn't serve well, and my opponent played really well. But I didn't raise my level of play and couldn't really find my rhythm in my game today. So overall struggled. 
 You know, I fought. I tried to come back. But, unfortunately, it didn't happen for me. 

 Q. Are you down on confidence?
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Not really, no. It's just beginning of the year. It's no big deal. It's, you know, only my second tournament of the year. 
 And, you know, I'm a player who likes to play a lot of matches. The more I play, the better I get, and the more dangerous I get. 
 I just have to stay positive, keep my head up high. Just, you know, I know what I have to work on. I feel like my game is improving, and I feel like I really can raise my level and be up there. And my goal is to come back to the top again. 
 But unfortunately today really wasn't my day. You know, I was hitting some balls short, and then some balls I went for maybe a little bit too much. I made a lot of errors that I shouldn't have made. 
 And then when I was in the point, the girl, you know, came up with some good shots, you know, from the run. And when you sum all that up, it was in a negative effect on my side. 
 But, you know, that's part of the game. You know, sometimes you win, sometimes you lose. You just have to keep going. 

 Q. Are you physically fit? You sound a little croaky. 
 JELENA JANKOVIC: You know, since I came here, I don't know if it is the air-conditioning or something. You know, I'm a little bit clogged up. I have some problems with the, you know, breathing. But that's basically it. 
 Every little thing, you know, helps. But, you know, it's not really an excuse. Today was a bad game of tennis from me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT