MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 11, 2010
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. SZAVAY/J. Jankovic
  5-7, 6-1, 7-5 
   
  Q. You played well here before. What was happening today? What were you struggling with?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: It was my first match of the season, and, you know, I was a little bit nervous, especially not playing for long time, two months, not competing.   
 It was a little bit different because I was just preparing and, you know, playing practice matches. Not really the same as playing a really match. So it was a tough match for me, you know. A little bit windy today and different conditions, but I tried my best.  
 I just want to stay positive, and I hope that, you know, I will be ready for Melbourne.  
  
  Q. What positives can you draw out of today's loss?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: No, I really tried my best. You know, I wasn't playing well. I was not hitting the ball as I wanted to and not serving well either.   
 But I had some chances, especially in that third set to come back and win it, I was serving for the match at 5-4, and managed to come back after being down 4-2. Then I made some really easy unforced errors. A lot unforced errors from my side.  
 Just have to clean up some things in my game and do better next time.  
  
  Q. Why has this been your first tournament? You didn't enter Brisbane.   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: You know, that was just my schedule. You know, I wanted to play here, and I love playing here. I had some great matches in the past. You know, I was really excited playing this tournament and hopefully doing well, but unfortunately it didn't happen. You know, that's part of the sport. What can I do?   
  
  Q. Is there a gamble just going into a Grand Slam with only one tournament when I guess something like this can happen?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: It's no problem. You know, I have a week to train and to do somethings. You know, everything playing one match, just feeling that atmosphere and the crowd, the court, and playing in this kind of conditions, it's, you know, it still gives me, you know, some experience. I will bring that to Melbourne.  
  
  Q. What did you in your off-season? Did you do anything different?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Just training and preparing. I feel good. I feel I'm ready to play. Unfortunately, today I just didn't bring the tennis I wanted to bring out. That was the case.   
 So unfortunately I didn't feel the ball. I was making too many unforced errors. Sometimes it happens.   
  
  Q. Where did you go? I guess you did some hot weather training.   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I trained in Florida, but it wasn't hot. It was unusual, and it was quite cold. So when I arrived here, it was a big change.   
  
  Q. How many days have you had to get used to the conditions?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I arrived here on Thursday, so three days.   
  
  Q. Any changes to your coaching staff or group? Who will be with you in Melbourne?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Not for now. I just had some -- when I was in the off-season, I had some help from Jim Arias, and Nick Bollettieri. They were helping me when I was training, but here when I'm traveling, it's impossible.   
 But I like to get help from different experienced even players or coaches who can help me improve my game. That's what I'm always trying to do: improve and get better as a player.  
  
  Q. When you look at your season last year, what do you feel that you have to do to improve this year in order to be more successful?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I think I could improve on everything. There is always things that can be, you know, better in my game. Nothing will ever be perfect, especially on my serve. I'm working on improving that shot. I change a little bit my technique, so I'm still not quite adapted to that stroke. So that gave me a lot trouble today, and I had trouble holding my serve.   
 But hopefully, you know, as the time goes on, I will feel more and more comfortable with that stroke and I can get some free points and do better on my serve.  
  
  Q. What are you trying to achieve by changing the technique?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I want to get some more power and get some pore precision. You know, make my life on the court a lot easier.   
  
  Q. Which surface do you think is your best chance of breaking through for a Grand Slam?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I like playing hardcourts. You know, playing on hardcourts is where I grew up. And I also like playing on clay. So doesn't matter. The least that I like is grass.  
 But as long as you're playing well and in good form and you're healthy, you can do -- you can make a good result anywhere.  
  
  Q. How do you feel your chances are now for the Australian Open?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: No, I just go out there and play my tennis. I go out there and just try to play the best that I can. We'll see how far I go.  
  
  Q. You got the junior title. So you want to...  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: I got the junior title, and not last year but the year before I was a semifinalist. So we'll see. You know, hopefully I will have a good time. That is my goal.  
  
  Q. Your voice sounds a little croaky. Are you well, or is it just a long, hot match?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: You know, also air conditioning everywhere, you know, hot and cold, so I get sore throat. My nose is a little bit stuffy, but it's okay. No problem.  
  
  Q. Not too bad?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Not too bad.  
  
  Q. You were a top seed in Melbourne last year. Do you think not being a top seed might sort of ease of pressure on you in Melbourne?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: You know, doesn't really matter if you're a top seed or not. Just every match counts. You don't underestimate any opponent. You go out there and try to play your best tennis in each match.  
 I will be, I don't know, 8 seed or something like that. So doesn't really matter what kind of seed you are. What matters is how well you're playing and how good your form is coming into the tournament, and of course being healthy and not having any problems so you can go out there and enjoy it and give it a shot.   
  
  Q. You held the No. 1 ranking. Do you feel as though you need a Grand Slam to get vindication, I suppose?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Doesn't matter. You know, being No. 1 in the world is something that every player dreams of achieving. And when I will retire and when I will be a grandmother, I can always say I was the best player in the world. Nobody can take that away from me with or without the Grand Slam.  
 I'm only 24 years old, so I still have many years to play. Hopefully I will one day win a Grand Slam. That is my goal: to win big tournaments and to be up there with the top players.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT