SONY ERICSSON CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 28, 2009
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. JANKOVIC/D. Safina
  1-1 (ret.)

 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Jelena, please. 

 Q. Do you feel lucky today because you won the match with less effort?
 JELENA JANKOVIC: To be honest, you know, I was looking forward to this match. I wanted to play better than I did yesterday. And especially I have won against her in Cincinnati in the final this year, so I was expecting really a tough match. And I just wanted to try to play my better tennis than I did yesterday because I was really disappointed after yesterday's play and I wanted to come out in a better image. 
 But unfortunately Dinara got injured. I know how it feels. You know, I just came off an injury, as well. It's really unfortunate. We play. We always give our best and try our best on the court. And sometimes you cannot control those injuries. 
 So I wish her, you know, the best for recovery and to be healthy soon. 

 Q. Wozniacki showed great tennis tonight with Azarenka. What do you think about your game with her?
 JELENA JANKOVIC: No, I played her couple times. Until now, I have never lost against her. So I hope to keep that record. 
 But I just, you know, have to -- hopefully I can just keep getting better and better. Anything can happen in this competition. My goal is to try to win that match and to get into the semis. But, you know, just I have to focus on my tennis. 
 Even though I played a few games, I came out much better than I did yesterday. Yesterday I couldn't make more than two balls in the court. But today I felt a little better. Hopefully I can do well in the match on Friday. 

 Q. Obviously the big story today in tennis is Andre Agassi. Were you surprised to hear about his drug test and what is your reaction to that?
 JELENA JANKOVIC: You know, I don't want to comment on that because, you know, I'm more of -- I take it more -- I appreciate fair play and players giving their effort, how good they can be, and being clean. You can be hundred in the world, but as long as you're clean, I appreciate that. 
 I really don't want to comment on that because I really don't think about that. I just want to be healthy and I want to live a long life. I was 1 in the world, I'm clean, and I enjoy the fair play. That's all I can say. What he did, I really don't want to comment. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT