SONY ERICSSON CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 27, 2009
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. AZARENKA/J. Jankovic
  6-2, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. You look very sad. Do you have any regrets about the game at 4-3 for her where it could have been 4-All?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Yeah, overall, was a tough match for me. I struggled throughout the whole match. I made a lot of unforced errors. I had trouble to get in the point, you know, stay in the point. I was always the one who was making the error.   
 I basically gave her everything. I beat myself. That was really unfortunately the case. My game was completely off. But I tried my best. I tried to come back into the match. I had some chances in the second set. But, unfortunately, you know, again, some errors and a lot of double-faults, a lot of things that I shouldn't have done.   
 But that's part of sport.   
  
  Q. The early break in the first set put you off straightaway?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Not really. But, you know, of course it's nice to start in a good way, you know, get a lead. But I was down the whole match. Like I said already, I just was trying to get in the match, get my rhythm. But, unfortunately, never happened. I would hit one or two balls and then the third one would go everywhere except in the court. It was really a shadow of myself.   
 But that's part of the game. Sometimes you want to play your best, but it doesn't happen.   
  
  Q. You lost, but you are still in the competition. How do you think you are going to do?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Yes, it's a little bit different to other tournaments where when you lose you're out of the competition. And here, even though I lost, I still have a chance.   
 I just have to try to clean my game. I need to get back to, you know, playing good points, hitting the ball, being aggressive, really cutting down all the errors, serve much better, return much better. I had a really low percentage on second serve returns, which was, you know, really disappointing for me. I was really getting frustrated with myself the whole time. I kept pushing myself to start to play better and I wanted to play better, but I just couldn't get into the match.   
 So I just hope that tomorrow I can play better. But, you know, I will try my best in this whole competition. We will see, you know, how things will go for me. But I will have to do a lot of work in the off-season, you know, to get back to my level and get to the top. That's all I know. There is really a lot of, lot of work to be done.   
  
  Q. Where will you do that work, and who will you do it with?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: You know, after I finish here, I will take some time off, two weeks, just to rest and recover, leave the tennis alone, leave my racquet alone, then I will start to train probably in the States, in Florida, because it's warm weather. I have an apartment there.   
 As far as from coaches, these kind of things, we will see what will happen in that case. But I know that I have to make some changes and I have to improve my game and get to the top again because what you have seen today, really I gave the match away. Just too many errors, too many things I shouldn't have done out there.   
  
  Q. When you see players like Azarenka and Wozniacki coming through, does it kind of remind you of yourself a few years ago coming onto the scene, playing without any inhibitions?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Yeah, they are playing, they have no pressure. At the same time, if you are out there, you show your game, you start playing good tennis, I think it's a different story. But when you play like I did today, anybody has a chance.   
 So basically it was all in my head because I have beaten her many, many times, and I know how to play against her, and I know her shots. You know, what can I say? It's disappointing that I didn't put on a good performance.   
  
  Q. Talking about the weather, did that affect your performance?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Yeah, but also I came from Moscow, so I didn't really have much time to adjust. I played in indoor. It was really cold. As you can see, I'm really white. I didn't have a chance for a long time to play outdoor and play in the sun, play in the heat. Here, it's very humid. It's warm. And it's outdoors.   
 Probably it has also something maybe to do with my game, with my playing. But I don't want to make excuses. I just have to stay as positive as I can and try to play better tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT