U.S. OPEN
September 3, 2009
Jelena Jankovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Y. SHVEDOVA/J. Jankovic
  6-3, 6-7, 7-6 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Did her aggressiveness give you a hard time today or did it catch you off guard?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: To be honest, you know, when you are playing a player like that, I've seen her play a few times before, and I played her once before two years ago, and they play totally different game. And then they play against a top seed and they're serving 120 miles per hour, they're hitting every shot. They're really not thinking out there. They're just playing freely because they have nothing to lose. And that was the case today with her.   
 As for my part, you know, I wasn't really on the court because, you know, I had something else, you know, happened. My grandmother died, and I was very close to her. You know, I was very sad and emotionally I was really not on court. I really tried, you know, my best to be there and to try to play, but it was really hard.   
 You could see I was not happy on the court. I was really suffering. I tried to think about my tennis, but, you know, I felt like I was so late and so slow. You know, I couldn't even watch the ball. That was my problem.   
 So there are more important things in life than tennis. When you think about it, this is just a small event compared to somebody in your family who dies. My mom was here with me, and she flew yesterday in the afternoon. She went back to Serbia, you know, to try to help. But she died last night, so...   
 It's very difficult situation. My mom, as well, is recovering from her surgery. We are all down. You know, it was my only grandmother. I was very, very close to her. Unfortunately, she passed away.   
  
  Q. And when your mom went home, was she able to see your grandmother before she passed away?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: You know, I couldn't really speak. I was just, you know, crying. I couldn't even ask for details because, you know, it's really hard.   
  
  Q. Did you find out before the match or after the match?  
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Before. I found out before. I was really down. It's normal because I'm an emotional person, so it's not easy.  
  
  Q. You found out last night or this morning?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Doesn't matter. But the most important thing is she passed away. And, you know, I will go back home tomorrow and try to stay by my mother, you know, my family, and we'll see.   
  
  Q. You had a rubber glove at one point and you were rubbing something on your leg. Are you dealing with an injury?   
 JELENA JANKOVIC: Yeah, really, you know, I was really tired and tight. I guess, as well, I moved really badly today. And I guess that's all -- when you are mentally affected by this kind of thing, I guess that all goes together. When you are sad, when you are down, you're not the same person. You don't move as well. You don't hit the ball as well. My head wasn't really there. I just was so -- it was like a shadow of myself.   
 But, you know, what can you do? Like I said, life goes on and I have to try to stay, you know, hopefully positive as much as I can, get through this.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT