ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
February 23, 2020
Mignon du Preez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








South Africa - 127/4, England - 123/8
Q. Mig, in the last T20 World Cup, you had a nightmare against England. Also looking back at the 2017 World Cup semifinal, you had some disappointment. You must have a particularly great feeling to get revenge today?
MIGNON DU PREEZ: I must say, you can see the smile on my face. It's nice to finally be able to beat them in an ICC tournament. And it's the seventh one I've played in and we haven't even gotten close. Like you said, there's been a few like this in the past. But to finally be able to put it behind us and to move forward is really exciting.
Q. How significant was that particular game in South Africa's development, do you think?
MIGNON DU PREEZ: I think it was -- it's definitely crucial for us. I think we've always known how strong we are and we know within the team we've got match winners. And we know we've got one of the best bowling attacks in the world. But sometimes at these events we haven't really shown what we're capable of.
To finally do that, I think it's one of those things, we had a monkey on the back. We've not done the best. And I think this will give us the boost we need to know we can go -- because we said this year we want to go one step further than the semifinals and take a World Cup trophy home.
Q. You talked about the monkey on your back that you had. How have you approached that? Have you talked about that as a team?
MIGNON DU PREEZ: I think for us this time around it's one of those things you don't need to touch base on it. We know that reality. But I think for this year around we just decided that we want to spend a lot more focus on us and what we can do well, what we can do as a group because it's something we can control we can't always control what their position will do.
I think this is maybe different this time around. We just decided we know we're good enough. We just have to play and have fun and enjoy.
And it's a wonderful opportunity. I think it's the biggest women's World Cup there has been so far. And to be part of it is such an honour. So I think for us it's just a time to use our talents and enjoy it.
Q. Talk us through the emotions and tactics in that final over. What was going through your mind?
MIGNON DU PREEZ: As I said, there was a lot of nerves. I think definitely carried it pretty well in the 19th over, too, when she hit the six I think that really took the pressure off.
And just before she went out, she said kind of she doesn't want to actually us to leave too much runs for the last over. I also said to her hit one and make sure you're on strike for the next over.
But she went out with a bang. And I just thought, like for me, I just had to breathe. Take some time. And I just needed to tell myself, I know I'm good enough. It's my game. I've played enough games in my career to actually be able to step up in crucial moments. And I think to finally do that and contribute to the team is really special.
Q. When that six went over the rope, what was going through your mind?
MIGNON DU PREEZ: There was a time when I thought it actually just went up and I kind of held my breath for a while, and blow, like just keep going.
But I think, yeah, I saw the fielder went up, her eyes lit up. And I saw it kept going. I think that really took a lot of pressure off, knowing that we basically just needed the one of three deliveries. And with the field up, I knew, like, I'm just actually -- if it's a good ball, I can still respect it. If it's going to be another two to go, worst case scenario we run on the last ball.
But I think for us, it was good to keep calm and just know that we've got what it takes to win a game.
Q. Last time we spoke, we spoke exactly about this, that your six hitting has really improved in the last couple of years. But over the last six months seemed to be again a little bit of patchy form for you. Coming back to this game, being able to finish it with an aspect of the game that isn't normally associated with Mignon du Preez for so many years, how exciting is that?
MIGNON DU PREEZ: I think that's reality with T20 cricket. You're going to have some brilliant games and brilliant days where the balls just fly. And other days, it's not always as easy. I think once you realize you'll probably have more bad days than good, you need to enjoy the good ones.
And for me I think we need something, we've had a discussion, I know I've worked on it and I know I can back myself in situations like that. It hasn't always come off. I think sometimes in the moment we tend to overthink or make some stupid decision while we're out there. But for me to know it, I think it's all good.
And I'm really fortunate. I think the experience probably from being one of the most experienced players, playing in these events, paid off tonight.
Q. Just before that last ball you saw, you just go down on one knee, seemed to be taking a breath. What were you saying to yourself? What was going through your mind?
MIGNON DU PREEZ: I think for me -- everybody probably that knows me knows that religion is very important for me. So before I usually go out to bat I say, God give me this glory and he died on the cross and now I play for me. And in that moment I said please be with me and thank you for being with me before when I hit the six, because that's probably the hard part. But now just stay with me to make sure that I can finish it off for the team.
Q. You spoke about going down on one knee. I would ask you about that huddle. Seemed as though it was going on forever after England's innings came to an end. What was the talk around that point? Did you see this as a for sure or it needed a certain degree of responsibility and maturity, especially on the part of the senior players like you?
MIGNON DU PREEZ: I think like the charge from the captain and saying -- sorry, just to double-check, are you speaking about halfway, the half? Or at the end?
Q. At the halfway.
MIGNON DU PREEZ: At the halfway. Yeah, I think at that time it was more just Dane just saying I think we've done really well; the bowlers have bowled brilliantly. And for once we've actually been outstanding in the field. That was one of the areas that stood out in the past. But she said she wants every batter that walks into the crease tonight to bat themselves and know they've got a job to do and they can finish it off.
And I think the way she and Kappy set the example, the brilliant partnership in the middle, that definitely got us close to what we needed. We know we've got batting depth. I think for them it's important for them to take it as deep as possible. And every batter that walked into the crease just know that you have the ability and you can win a game for your country.
Q. And just on Kappy, since the last T20 World Cup she's been coming in at 3, a pretty big moment to make a big change in the batting order, the decision. And to back her continuously in this course have constantly improved since then. What was the thinking at the time? And how have you seen her evolve?
MIGNON DU PREEZ: That's probably a question more for the selectors, captains or coach. But from a teammate's point of view I just think we know what quality batter she is. We've seen her in the past and we know what she's capable of. And she's really worked hard. She's probably one of the people who spends most time in the nets working on her game.
It's not a lack of worth ethic, but I think for her we know she's pretty good at both. She hits quite straight, which is really important, especially when the ball is still moving around.
So for us I just think it's one of those things, like with the batting lineup, we don't always want to yo-yo around with her too much. I think for her, knowing that she's going to walk in and bat a three is quite important, and that she now knows exactly how to plan a game around it, when in the past it's been coming in early batting later. I think now she really understands what's needed for her in this very moment in time.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT