NCAA MEN'S FROZEN FOUR
April 7, 2018
Jeff Jackson
Jake Evans
Andrew Oglevie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Minnesota Duluth - 2, Notre Dame - 1
MODERATOR: We're joined by Notre Dame.  Coach, your general thoughts on the game before we get to the players.
COACH JACKSON: Congratulations to Duluth and Scott.  They played a hell of a game.  And obviously when they made the tournament, they became that team of destiny that you're always hoping to be at the end of the year.  So hats off to them.  Extremely proud of our guys, especially our senior class that led us to a great season.
MODERATOR: Questions for the players.
Q. Andrew, what was the message after the first period, and how did the fact that you were killing penalties right away to start the second change what you could do?
ANDREW OGLEVIE: I think we knew we just had to kill that one off and try and get some momentum going our way.  And I thought we did a good job killing that one off and trying to get our feet moving and get pucks deep.
Q. It really seemed like they made you work for everything on offense.  How were they kind of able to shut you guys down?
JAKE EVANS: Yeah, like Coach said, they're working well together right now.  And they're doing all the little things right.  And they got some quick D and really good gaps.  If you're not chipping pucks by them and you're turning the pucks over, bad things are going to happen as a result of one goal.  And they're just a really good team, and they did a really good job.
Q. Did the atmosphere have any effect, do you think, on the team?  And what was the message heading out into the third period?  And what kind of went wrong there?
ANDREW OGLEVIE: No, the atmosphere did not affect us.  I think they did a good job in the neutral zone eliminating our speed.
JAKE EVANS: We've been a good road team the whole year, and I think we just -- I don't know, that's it.
MODERATOR: Thank you.  Questions for Coach.
Q. Those two penalties that you had to kill in the beginning of the second period when you were already down 2-0, when you killed those off did you feel that that was really the foothold to getting back into the game?
COACH JACKSON: Yeah.  Yeah, you know, I thought in the second we played a much better period.  We needed to try and tie the game in the second, because once you get to the third period, they're a shut-down team.  They shut you down and don't allow much through the neutral zone.
And we had at least some juice in the second period, especially after we scored that goal.  I think that we needed to try and tie it in the second.  Third period was just a shut-down period.  They didn't give us much.
Q. Just talk about Duluth had 21 blocked shots tonight.  Talk about how that kind of affected what you guys were trying to do on offense and how -- and do you think that was maybe part -- that's part of their system or did the stat just kind of work out like that?
COACH JACKSON: That's becoming more common across all of hockey now, with teams playing zones.  We actually prepared a little bit for that in preparation for Michigan.  But we didn't execute as well tonight as -- plus they do a really good job of putting pressure on you.  So even your shots are contested.
So they're defensemen, they front you, they get body position on you and it's hard to get pucks through.  We really needed to try to do more to make the ice longer.  We shortened the ice way too much with turnovers and some of that was from blocked shots.
Q. It's tough at this moment, but how proud are you of this team and what it accomplished this season, and how much are you going to miss some of the leadership that you had?
COACH JACKSON: Well, you know, this group was unbelievable.  I mean, they were relentless.  They were resilient.  We had great leadership.  And I feel awful for our seniors.  They did a heck of a job all season long.
We still walked away with two trophies and played in the national championship game.  So there's a lot to be said for what they accomplished this year.  They had a 16-game winning streak.  We had a great year in the Big Ten.  And we ran into a better team tonight.  So we have to respect that.
Q. Seems like they made zone entries next to impossible almost all night.  Were there some things you changed to try to get the puck in deeper?
COACH JACKSON: Yeah, my biggest thing was I thought we had too much separation between our defensemen and our forwards.  And they do a really good job with their gaps.  We needed to put more pucks in behind their defense and we didn't get that done.  We had too many plays where the puck wouldn't get even below the tops of the circles, and -- because you're not going to generate anything if you're chasing.  And unfortunately we were forced to chase too much because of turnovers.
Q. Coach, could you talk about how Cale grew into the game and what's the next step for you guys after two straight Frozen Fours?
COACH JACKSON: Well, we'll get back at 'er.  Take some time to reflect, got a big senior class to replace, and a big freshman class coming in.  It'll certainly be a different look in our team, but we've got a lot of good players and fairly good group of leadership coming back.
So we'll get started all over again.  It's a continuous cycle for us as coaches.  It's just sometimes it's different people.  But I'm not going to look that far in the future right now.  I want to embrace these kids that we have here and what they accomplished.
MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT