ST. JUDE CLASSIC PRESENTED BY FEDEX
June 12, 2009
Guy Boros
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PHIL STAMBAUGH: Okay, Guy Boros, 66 and you're right in the thick of it. I noticed your next to last guy in this field and you're taking advantage of your opportunity. Just maybe a couple general thoughts about your round today, and then we'll go through your birdies and bogies.  
 GUY BOROS: Yeah, I've been playing a little bit better. I was kind of looking forward to play. I enjoy the golf course here, so it's in great shape and, you know, you make a few putts, sure does help your score.  
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Okay. You just want -- course play any differently for you today than yesterday? Awfully hot out there?  
 GUY BOROS: I was actually hoping for a little bit of breeze to cool it off. It was pretty dead still. The golf course is not going to play much easier than it is today. It's still a good test of course.  
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: You want to run through your round?  
 GUY BOROS: I can't see to good at my age anymore.  
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Birdie at No. 6.  
 GUY BOROS: 6, hit it in there -- thank you.   
 I got my Dollar Store glasses all over the place except here.   
 6 I hit it about 6 feet and made a good putt there, so that sure helped.  
 Got around to 10, hit it short of the green and lucky enough to clip in. Hit a good shot on 11. I might have lipped out pretty close to going from about 6 feet, made that one.  
 1 I made the longest putt I made all week, probably 20, 25 feet. That helped.  
 Then 16, I slipped off the tee, hit a tree off the tee there, only went about 100 yards, hit 3-wood and wedge to about probably 10 feet and made that one.  
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Okay. You haven't gotten in many events. Have you done anything to keep your game pretty sharp?  
 GUY BOROS: I've played the Nationwide. So, you know, like I said, I've started to play a little bit better, so it makes the game a lot if, you know, funner again. Actually feel like I can compete.   
  
  Q. What part of your game did you feel like needed to get better? Was it the whole thing or one particular thing?  
 GUY BOROS: Every part of my game. I just -- you know, things don't go very well for a year or so and kind of snowballed and got worse and worse, and it was no fun to even go play. It was a real struggle.  
  
  Q. How did you get your mindset back into wanting to play then?  
 GUY BOROS: Well, I took -- actually, I took a couple lessons from my brother, and a good friend of mine, John Scaff (phonetic), at home. It sure helped. Got me a little closer to the ball, changed my takeaway a little bit.   
 Like I said, you make a few putts and it sure helps. I got some good breaks. It's nice to have it go -- to break even I will be happy instead of everything go back, and now everything is going better.  
  
  Q. When did you have that lesson, recently?  
 GUY BOROS: I had early this year, the one -- a pro down in South Florida. He just changed my ball flight a lot. I'm not playing a big hook as much anymore, so I'm hitting the ball straighter.  
  
  Q. When did you find out you were in here? Did you know before you got here?  
 GUY BOROS: Tuesday. I was pretty sure I was going to get in. I thought I would have got in by a couple more. My sister drove my kids up from Gainesville. They didn't get into Knoxville until Tuesday night. We drove over here Wednesday morning.  
  
  Q. What's that uncertainty like?  
 GUY BOROS: Sucks. It's nice to be fully exempt out here, but I got into the finals in Tour School last year. At least I have a place to play. Nationwide. It's a tough row to hoe, but it's better than a lot of other places. So, you know, I'd much rather be out here, you know, so -- it helps my confidence a little bit. Even if I -- whatever happens this weekend, at least I know I can still play.  
  
  Q. How do you feel about it?  
 GUY BOROS: Well, lot of uncertainties if I should even still be playing. My scores haven't been very good. My game hasn't been very good. I played pretty good for two days. Like I'm getting better. I'm tied for second, whatever, might be Top-10 the end of the week or the by the end of the day. So, you know, it will give me a little confidence.  
  
  Q. Did you ever come close to giving it up?  
 GUY BOROS: Pretty close, yeah.  
  
  Q. When?  
 GUY BOROS: I don't know to do anything else.  
  
  Q. When was that time?  
 GUY BOROS: Year, two ago. So I mean, like I said, it's been tough. It's no fun when you're playing bad. There are signs of me playing good but for two, three days. The game is getting funner and funner. It was fun to play again.  
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Anybody else? Good luck the rest of the week.  
 GUY BOROS: Thank you, guys.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT