NHL ENTRY DRAFT
June 22, 1996
Remi Royer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
REMI ROYER:  The important thing is to be drafted by a team and just make -- I have to do a professional camp in September and that is the important thing, I think professional camp.  Chicago is a great organization.  My brother is with them and I think we are going to do a training camp together in September. 
 

Q.  Where does your brother play?
 
REMI ROYER:  He played for Shirbruck (ph) at the beginning of the season and then he was traded like me. 
 

Q.  How old is your brother?
 
REMI ROYER:  20. 
 

Q.  You guys are pretty close in age?
 
REMI ROYER:  Yeah. 
 

Q.  What were you thinking when you kind of stayed on the board there for a little bit when you didn't go as high as you thought?  Were you getting worried?
 
REMI ROYER:  Not really, no. 
 

Q.  Had you talked to Chicago? 
 
REMI ROYER:  Yeah, I met them yesterday with all the organization, and I don't know how to say it, well -- 
 

Q.  What are your strengths?  What kind of defenseman are you?
 
REMI ROYER:  I am an offensive defenseman for -- I like to play in the powerplay.  I like the hard game, you know, the tough game, I like to play the physical game and that is for sure, I am an offensive defenseman and I hope that is going to be my job in the NHL if ever I go there. 
 

Q.  Looking forward to going to training camp with Chelios and --
 
REMI ROYER:  Yeah, I am.  I like Chelios.  That is my style and I would like to copy him later in the future.  He is the greatest defenseman I think in the NHL with Ray Bourque. 
 

Q.  What kind of things do you think you are going to need to improve in the defensive end?
 
REMI ROYER:  I have to improve defense in my zone and I know it and I will try to improve that next season.  What is going to be more, how do you say, concentrate -- I have to be more concentrate in my zone, but it is good points and bad points. 
 

Q.  Strength and weaknesses.
 
REMI ROYER:  Yeah, when you are a player you have weaknesses, you have good things, but I have to improve my defense and I know it.  I am going to work on it.  
 

Q.  Do you think that will be your biggest adjustment coming out of the major juniors?
 
REMI ROYER:  Yeah, it is not the same thing as NHL. You have to improve everything, your body, your skating, your checking, your execution, you have to improve all of that and I hope I am going to do that. 
 
Thanks a lot. 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT