U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 29, 1994
Chi Chi Rodriguez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CHI CHI RODRIGUEZ:  I played a little bit better than all of them  today.  I played 36 holes here and I haven't missed one  fairway.  I am playing the best golf of my life.  J.C.  Snead gave me a golf lesson last Saturday and my game is  back.  So it is all a matter of putting.  I love this  kind of golf course because this is a traditional golf  course and there is a lot of tradition behind Pinehurst.  It is a very fair course and it is really set up very  nicely for the seniors.  In about a year and a half I am  going to be a super senior, so I am almost 59 and I love  it.  I love this golf course.  


Q.  What do you mean very nice for the seniors?  

CHI CHI RODRIGUEZ:  The rough is really not like the U.S. Open  rough.  I saw Arnold went in the rough in one hole at the  U.S. Open there and I heard his caddy lost his bag  looking for the ball.  That was high rough, but they have  it very fair for us.  


Q.  With the big greens here and you say it is all  a matter of putting, how do you feel about your chances  playing so well with the big greens?  

CHI CHI RODRIGUEZ:  It doesn't make any difference where we play  anymore.  The best players win.  Our two premier players  on the senior tour right now are David Stockton and Lee  Trevino, so they are going to be the guys to beat.  Of  course Raymond Floyd is the other one, and you can't  count the Bear out.  So those four guys will be the four  guys to beat.  Of course Jim Dent is playing good too, so  he is very strong so you got to watch him.  


Q.  How are you playing?  

CHI CHI RODRIGUEZ:  I am playing good enough to win.  Last two  weeks, no, but this week I am ready.  


Q.  What lesson was it that J.C. Snead gave you?  

CHI CHI RODRIGUEZ:  If I tell it, you are going to write it; then  the other pros are going to know it.  He told me that my hips were too open, so  he had me square my hips up and that made my backswing a  little bit longer.  And I am driving the ball with Jack  and Larry Gilbert today.  

CHI CHI RODRIGUEZ:  In my dreams, yeah.  The little mouse can  never pass the big Bear.  


Q.  How much has all the rain softened up these  greens, and how big a factor is that going to be?  

CHI CHI RODRIGUEZ:  I think rain normally makes golf courses play  easier and, you know, it is a shame that we don't have  records for dry greens and wet greens like they do in  horse tracks because -- well, you can see what happened  at the U.S. Open, the regular U.S. Open.  When it rained,  the guys burned up the golf course.  When it was dry,  they couldn't do it.  So I think it will make it easier.  

CHI CHI RODRIGUEZ:  I think it is a wonderful idea because a lot  of guys, they play slow because that is their pace, but  there are other guys, when the wind is gusty and there is  a gust that lasts 30, 40 seconds, they will stop, take  their glove up, tie up their shoe; your clothes go out of  style waiting for them to hit.  You have got to have good  breaks and bad breaks in golf.  You can't have all good  breaks.  I think it was a good idea.  I was watching The  Masters.  I can't believe some of the time that some of  those guys took to hit a golf shot; took them 60 minutes  to -- I mean, two hours to watch 60 minutes.  

CHI CHI RODRIGUEZ:  Oh, I thought the greens used to be smaller  here.  I don't -- I don't remember them being this big.  But I don't think I have played well here, no.  If I  didn't play well, I don't remember because I only  remember the times that I play well.  


Q.  That is a perception, Chi Chi, because you  played with a fringe a couple of times and they don't  have a fringe?  

CHI CHI RODRIGUEZ:  Oh, that is what it is?  Yeah.  

CHI CHI RODRIGUEZ:  It all depends, if you don't have anything on  front, you better off -- because most of the slopes, what  happens here is the Bermuda grass grows to where the  water goes, so if you are going into the grain and you  use a wedge, chances are you can chip at the ball.  You  are better off putting most of those.  If there is not a  trap in front of you, you are better off putting it.  


Q.  Can you talk about the dominance of Stockton  Floyd and Trevino?  It seems like the Senior Tour has  always had a dominant player.  You were one a few years  back.  Is that good for the game, do you think?  

CHI CHI RODRIGUEZ:  Yeah, I think it is good because in the other  tour nobody dominates.  I don't even remember the name of  the kid that won the U.S. Open, so I remember Greg  Norman's name and Fuzzy Zoeller, John Daly, I guess it is  Els.  

CHI CHI RODRIGUEZ:  Else.  But on this tour everybody is an  established player, so it is good when somebody  dominates.  And I will be there soon, don't worry about  it.  


Q.  With all the qualifiers and the amateurs  playing here, do you think there is any chance of any  no-name player or not a big name player winning on this  course?  

CHI CHI RODRIGUEZ:  Well, no, think I you can get lucky for 36  holes.  It is like -- to me, a great player is somebody  that wins three times or more because you can get lucky  and win once and get lucky and wins twice, but you can't  get lucky and win three times.  Now, as far as regular  tournament, a long shot can win a regular tournament but  this is the U.S. Open.  This has got high rough.  You  have to hit the ball straight.  You have to think well.  You have to be patient.  You have to hit a lot of  greens.  So there is no fluke going to win this one.  


Q.  Do you ever think back two years ago when you  played Nicklaus what might have been the playoff?  

CHI CHI RODRIGUEZ:  No.  I think that Jack is such a great man and  great father and a great husband, you know, and a great  friend and a man of golf, I think when he won, I don't  think that I lost.  I think that golf won.  So I would  have loved to win but I was just as happy for him winning  as I would have been for myself, so. . .  And only fools  live in the past.  


Q.  How did Jack play?  

CHI CHI RODRIGUEZ:  It is a practice round, so I never played with  Jack in a practice round when he really played well.  So  I think he will be ready tomorrow.  


Q.  Lee Trevino was in here earlier and talked  about he will only do five or six corporate outings a  year because he rather focus on his game.  Where he said  you might do 150 or 160.  How many actually do you do and  how does it impact--  

CHI CHI RODRIGUEZ:  This year I will probably do about 80  corporate outings.  See, when a man goes home, his wife  gets twice as much husband and half as much money; it  doesn't work.  A man belongs working, so golf is what I  do for my livelihood, but it is fun and Sam Snead told me  one time when I was a young man he says if you never want  to burn out just play all the time; play, play, play  because as you get older, to be a golfer is like a  horse.  If you have a young horse, you race him and you  rest him.  When he gets old you got to race him all the  time because if you put him to his hay, he don't want to  run no more.  And if you have a horse, you shouldn't --  have to make sure you cut his tail off because if he has  no tail, when the flies bite him, he has got to come up  and shake, then he can't eat.  But if he got a tail, he  knocks those flies off and keep eating, so he breaks  you.  

CHI CHI RODRIGUEZ:  You know the problem with the horses is that  they eat like horses and when I was a kid I was a farmer  and I used to watch the horses and the grass grow, you  know, vegetables and everything else, a golf course if  you put your money in a golf course, you spend money in  chemicals, water, fertilizer to make the grass grow good  so you can cut it.  It don't make sense.  And a horse is  the same way.  A horse, when he has a tail, he is always  eating.  When he has a tail, the flies bite him; he knock  the flies off with his tail; he keep eating.  But if he  don't have a tail, he has got to come up and shake.  So  he can't eat then.  So you save some money.  


Q.  You are saying all you guys should have your  tails cut off?  

CHI CHI RODRIGUEZ:  That is right.  


Q.  Will heat be a factor?  

CHI CHI RODRIGUEZ:  No.  This is perfect.  And I think I am very  proud to be a part of this tournament, guys, because I  think the United States Golf Association like our PGA  Tour and you people with the communication system are the  people that have made the game of golf what it is, which  is the greatest sport in the world.  It's an honorable  sport where we don't have any scandals and the kids can  look up to any golf pro and make him his role model and  knowing that he has never betrayed him.  I have never  heard of any golf pro being part of a scandal.  So I am  very proud to be a part of the PGA Tour, proud that the  United States Golf Association has invited me to play  here, and proud that all of you people when my game has  gone down, you have never left me.  My game has left me,  but you people have never left me and I really appreciate  that and may God bless you and I hope that Sunday I can  give you a very good story.  God bless you.   


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT