MLB WORLD SERIES: ASTROS v WHITE SOX
October 22, 2005
Neal Cotts
Bobby Jenks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  You guys came out like you were pitching with a purpose after being out and idle for so long.  Did you feel like you had a statement to make tonight? 
 
NEAL COTTS:  I don't think we had a statement.  We felt ready and we're prepared for whatever they need us for.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about facing Bagwell?  Obviously you just kept giving him fastball, fastball, fastball; was that your plan going into it? 
 
BOBBY JENKS:  If you'd seen me warming up, you'd see I didn't throw nothing but a fastball, I couldn't find anything else.  Going off the scouting report and 0-2 counts, he chases fastballs up above the zone; sticking to what I was doing best, going against my strengths and his weaknesses. 
 
Q.  Against Bagwell, you hit 100 a number of times on the radar.  How much was the crowd firing you up, the circumstance and just finally getting in after a couple of weeks? 
 
BOBBY JENKS:  It's everything all together.  One, pitching in the World Series, Game 1, and just that opportunity alone just will fire anybody up. 
 
Q.  Talk about you starting the season off in Double-A and coming into the World Series in the 8th inning, first and third, and Ozzie calls on you.  Talk about the difference in that; any nerves, what was your mindset?
 
BOBBY JENKS:  It's a completely different mindset.  You need a lot more control, especially over your emotions in a situation like this.  And spend enough time in the Minor Leagues you learn how to do those things.  And I got a taste of it early on against the Red Sox, so I knew what I was coming up against emotionally and mentally.  So I thought I handled it pretty well.  
 
Q.  After you gave up the single, you got a break with the runner on third.  How did you parlay that into the next couple of outs? 
 
NEAL COTTS:  With no outs you're just trying to minimize damage on the first and third.  Once I got the first strikeout then I was going for a ground ball, just trying to get out of the inning, and I ended up having a strikeout and Bobby came in and did the rest? 
 
Q.  What did it mean to you that Ozzie kept you in the game and didn't pull you earlier for Bobby? 
 
NEAL COTTS:  It meant a lot.  I faced righties and lefties, I think, probably equally as well this year.  And so he stuck with me and I was fortunate enough to get the strikeout.  
 
Q.  What did you -- how would you describe Ozzie's way of calling you into the game?
 
BOBBY JENKS:  I think it's all right.  I think it's pretty funny calling the big guy in.  I know he does a lot of things out of humor, he doesn't mean anything by it.  I'm taking the smile with it. 
 
Q.  Can you take us through coming into your first ever World Series game from a mental standpoint, how you handled everything tonight? 
 
NEAL COTTS:  I don't know, you really don't think about it too much until they call you in, the crowd is going crazy, because Contreras pitched so well.  You get a little hyped up there.  And then you try just to take it as a normal game.  It's a little different situation, but just try to pitch the same and go after the hitters the same way.  And another big difference is you've never faced this team at all, so it's a little different facing some of the hitters.  You feel accustomed or comfortable with some of the other guys you face all year long.  
 
Q.  How did you stay sharp with so little work really the last couple of weeks?  What did you do in between appearances? 
 
BOBBY JENKS:  We just threw bullpens, simulated games.  Played a lot of catch.  We stayed mentally ready was the harder thing to do.  
 
NEAL COTTS:  Definitely.  The games were so tight against Anaheim, both of us were up probably all three games.  And you're mentally getting ready to go into the game all three of those games, so that keeps you sharper than sitting around the whole time. 
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT