DAVIS CUP - RUSSIA vs USA
April 6, 1998
Shamil Tarpischev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAGE CROSLAND:  We'll begin the questions in English. 
   

Q.  What in the world happened to you today?  You played a hundred times better than the previous two days.
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Because there was not too many media people from Russia's side (laughter). 
   

Q.  Congratulations on a great match.  In the second set at 4-1, you seemed to be totally in control, dominating play.  Courier went to a slice backhand.  Did that seem to cause you a lot of problems?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Courier changed his tactics.  I was not ready for it.  Actually, I lost my concentration. 
   

Q.  How big a match was that for you?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  It's pretty difficult for me, all my muscles hurt.  But it was great.  I really enjoyed it.  I  didn't want to win so quickly; that's what I was doing, trying to extend my play (laughter). 
   

Q.  What was the difference in the match?  Why did you lose?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Just I'm not so experienced as Courier. 
   

Q.  Did you maybe only start to really play a little nervously in the fifth set?  Was that about the only time it got to you, the pressure today?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I think I was playing at the same level all the sets; just I lost my serve in the fifth set. That was kind of the problem for me.  I lost my concentration.  I was tired. 
   

Q.  What is your favorite surface?  Do you enjoy hard court or clay?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Clay. 
   

Q.  Is that because you train in Spain?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yeah, I guess so.  It's almost four years I am playing on the clay courts in Spain.  And in Moscow, it's pretty close to Spain, same courts.  But I did like the clay court today, I really did (laughter). 
   

Q.  You fell in I think the fourth set, seem to have hurt your hand.  Did you hurt your hand?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Nothing broke.  I just lost half of  my finger, but that's okay (laughter). 
 
CAPTAIN TARPICHEV:  I would like to congratulate the American team for such a great victory.  You deserved it.  Thanks a lot for the warmest reception that you provided to us. 
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Thank you, very much, the Russian fans who attended this event today. 
   

Q.  What do you think was your main disadvantage in today's game?  What did you miss today?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I just needed to be a little bit successful.  I missed my success today.  I lost my concentration, and I lost my serve in the fifth set.  If I could win the second set, I would really have a great chance to win the game.  I think if I could win the second set, it would be much easier for me to play further. 
   

Q.  Have you been nervous compared to the previous game?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  It cannot get worse (laughter).  And, plus, as I said, there were no Russian media people here, which is kind of helped me.  Only two of you, but that's okay (laughter).  I haven't seen Russian TV here probably.  That also helped me.  Now I realize that one representative from the Russian broadcasting company is here. 
   

Q.  Where did you watch the match with Kafelnikov versus Agassi, here on the site or the hotel?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  At the second set I realized that Kafelnikov was going to win, and I just went for lunch (laughter). 
   

Q.  Who was accompanying you right before the game, before you went to the court?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  I was with Mr. Tarpichev's son. 
   

Q.  And your plans for the nearest future tournaments, events?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Tonight I am flying to Napoli, Italy, and I'm going to play Challenger.  Next week I'm going to play in Barcelona. 
   

Q.  Are you going to play the tournament in France?
 
MARAT SAFIN:  Yes, I will be playing. 
   

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT