DAVIS CUP - RUSSIA vs USA
April 3, 1998
Shamil Tarpischev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAGE CROSLAND:  We're going to have an interpretation.  Address your questions in English and they will be answered in English.
  

Q.  How much does this concern him?  Obviously now Yevgeny is slated to play two matches tomorrow.  That puts a big burden on Yevgeny.  How much does that concern him?

SHAMIL TARPICHEV:  It doesn't matter.  I don't want to say that he will play two matches tomorrow, because we will decide tomorrow if we're going to play doubles after the singles.  We might play only singles tomorrow.  It all will be depending on the singles games.
  

Q.  Did you say when it was going to start?
  

Q.  Can you ask how he would prefer it, how he would like to do the schedule the rest of the way now that today has been canceled, what his preference is? 

SHAMIL TARPICHEV:  It's already done.  Kafelnikov plays at 10 a.m.  Afterward, Safin is playing.


(Pause).
  

Q.  Can he talk about the schedule?  Will two singles and a doubles be held tomorrow?

SHAMIL TARPICHEV:  As we agreed with Mr. Miles (sic), we'll play two singles matches tomorrow, and doubles, we'll play that on Sunday.
  

Q.  I was just following up.  Do they know the Sunday schedule yet?
  

Q.  Is he saying doubles on Sunday, and then what about the other two singles matches?

SHAMIL TARPICHEV:  That might happen, that we'll play two singles on Sunday.  But we'll agree on this tomorrow, after we'll play the singles.  It's very obvious that the American team has an  advantage in all this, because we have one player who is involved on three matches.  You have your players to be like only in two matches.
  

Q.  But do they have an advantage?  After all, it is just two matches.  Yevgeny is pretty good at playing a lot of tennis in big tournaments.  Do the Americans really have an advantage?  Maybe might it work good for y'all?

SHAMIL TARPICHEV:  I think it's too early to say anything about advantages and disadvantages.  So we'll see tomorrow after the first singles game.  We'll see how many games Kafelnikov will play.  I think we'll be ready to give you an answer.
  

Q.  Where will the team go now?  Do you plan on practicing later this afternoon somewhere?  Where would that be?

SHAMIL TARPICHEV:  Kafelnikov will have a rest today.  Safin went to practice.  It's like half an hour from here.  I don't know exactly where is that.
  

Q.  If they decide to play the doubles and two singles on Sunday, is there a chance he'd pull Kafelnikov from the doubles?

SHAMIL TARPICHEV:  It's all dependent on the result of both singles matches.
  

Q.  And after both singles matches are completed  tomorrow, will you ask Yevgeny if he wants to play or is it based totally on what the score is?

SHAMIL TARPICHEV:  Of course, I will ask Yevgeny if he want to play on Sunday.  But I will be able to realize if he's able to play or not on Sunday.
  

Q.  Will he comment on the game plan of Kafelnikov and Safin tomorrow against Courier and Agassi?

SHAMIL TARPICHEV:  Maybe you can specify what you would like to hear.
  

Q.  The strategy, basic strategy of Kafelnikov versus Courier and Safin versus Agassi.

SHAMIL TARPICHEV:  I don't think it's right to say anything about the strategy at this moment.  I think that both matches will be hard for both teams.  But let's say in a game, Kafelnikov against Courier, Kafelnikov has 60 percent advantage.  In the game Safin against Agassi, definitely Agassi has an advantage in this game.  It's kind of equal.
  

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT