FEDCUP FINALS: CZECH REPUBLIC v RUSSIA
November 4, 2011
Maria Kirilenko
Svetlana Kuznetsova
Shamil Tarpischev
Elena Vesnina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: We'll start our press conference. Any questions for the team?
 (The following through translation.) 

 Q. When did you find out that Vera would not be able to play? And why did you pick up Elena Vesnina? Because we had a deep bench. Ekaterina Makarova could be playing or anyone else, so could you explain your choice?
 CAPTAIN TARPISCHEV: It's nice to hear we have a deep bench. I would call it a tactical choice. I don't want to diminish the merits of our players, but that's my choice. 

 Q. Two questions, actually. One: At the predraw conference, it was said that Vera Zvonareva can play. Yes, she was having some problems with her shoulder but it was said she still could be playing. Whatever happened within this time, I mean, during this 36 or 24 hours? And second question: Why do you choose Maria Kirilenko and not Pavlyuchenkova to play singles? And a question for Maria Kirilenko, how does she feel now?
 CAPTAIN TARPISCHEV: Well, I think it was pretty clear that with her type of injury and with the pain she was feeling, she would become actually the weakest player on the team, because all girls are really fit and they are playing really well now. I think it was a well-pondered, well-justified decision.
 I would call it also a tactical choice, because the second day will be pretty tough. We will be having three rubbers, two singles and one doubles. 
 I don't like to elaborate now on the specific reasons behind this tactical choice. Ask me that question tomorrow. 
 MARIA KIRILENKO: And with respect to Maria Kirilenko, she says she feeling really well right now. 

 Q. Elena, how do you feel? You were the last to leave the premises of Olimpiysky Center last night. You were training hard, I guess, with Svetlana Kuznetsova. So if you would comment on that. 
 ELENA VESNINA: Well, actually, I have been training with the team all week long and I feel really well. I was one of the last to leave the premises of Olimpiysky, because such was the practicing session schedule.

 Q. Svetlana, you participated in the Kremlin Cup, played here in Moscow. And you also stayed after the tournament here, so it was a long stay in Moscow. Do you think it will give you an edge in the upcoming tie against the Czech Republic?
 SVETLANA KUZNETSOVA: Well, I was training and practicing not only at the Olimpiysky but also in other places in Moscow. But it's just good to feel home. I feel really well right now. That's the most important thing.

 Q. Who is helping the team other than the coaches? I have seen some Russian players from the men's team. Maybe they could become hitting partners for the women's team?
 CAPTAIN TARPISCHEV: I would like to thank all the team who are helping us: Elena Likhovtseva, Anastasia Myskina, and the personal coaches who are all here, including Larisa Savchenko. But not only them. I'd like to thank all our team, like the masseur, Mr. Glebov, and also we have some hitting partners. 
 And then we made a point to make sure there are lefties, because we have two lefties on the Czech team. So we have Shalva Dzhanashiya, a young, up-and-coming men's player. He's a lefty. And we have Ekaterina Makarova, also a lefty hitting with the girls. 

 Q. For the girls, with respect to this lefty factor, do you think you'll be able to play against these lefties? 
 ELENA VESNINA: That will be fine playing lefties. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT