DAVIS CUP FINALS: RUSSIA v U.S.A.
December 2, 2007
Shamil Tarpischev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Captain Tarpischev. 

 Q.  Overall, how do you feel about your team's performance in the final? 
 SHAMIL TARPISCHEV:  I think that everything went in accordance with our expectations.  This is how we had everything lined up, and everything was basically how we thought it would turn out to be. 

 Q.  Overall, can you find a silver lining to the weekend?  And for next year, do you see the makeup of your team changing? 
 SHAMIL TARPISCHEV:  As to what happened during this weekend, I wouldn't have changed anything.  I would have done the same. 
 Realistically, on this type of surface, on this type of court, the United States team played the way they were supposed to play.  As to the strengthening of our team, we have a player, Safin.  He is preparing for the next season now.  We have five equally strong players, and they're preparing to play on different types of surfaces.  This is our strong point. 
 The only real area where we do have problems is in the doubles. 

 Q.  If you did find a doubles team like the Americans have in the Bryans, would you consider switching to that strategy with a set doubles team and two singles players? 
 SHAMIL TARPISCHEV:  We have a very good doubles duo, Safin and Tursunov.  They, of course, are not totally matched to the Bryan brothers.  When we played in Moscow it worked out well. 
 As to the doubles, it would be a big plus for us if we had a strong doubles team.  Then we would be more versatile on all kinds of surfaces.  Certain types of surfaces we would then be more -- things would be more powerful in terms of our singles and other types of surfaces with our doubles. 

 Q.  The Americans keep talking about disenchantment with the format of the Davis Cup, wanting to change it in some way.  Are you perfectly happy with the format?  How would you feel about a potential change? 
 SHAMIL TARPISCHEV:  If there is one thing that I can say I'm not quite happy about is the timing.  If the players arrive from overseas, they are under the influence of jetlag.  So it's more this factor than the format itself that makes it difficult to prepare the players, given there's four days to prepare them for the matches. 
 As far as the format is concerned, it's probably a question of tradition.  Before we even need to raise the issue of whether we want to change the format, we first need to figure out whether we want to step away from the tradition or whether we want to stick with the tradition. 
 In other words, tradition is history.  So are we trying to change history or not? 

 Q.  Do you want to change history or not? 
 SHAMIL TARPISCHEV:  I've been happy with it so far. 

 Q.  As president of the Russian tennis Federation, also the head of the Davis Cup and the Fed Cup team, do you find all those responsibilities taxing on you, or are all those different charges something you want to continue doing? 
 SHAMIL TARPISCHEV:  Well, to tell you the truth, at times I've found it kind of hard to combine all those positions.  Several times I tried to leave.  But honestly there hasn't been a candidate who would be happy to step in and take my place in one of those electrical chairs. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT