NASCAR SPRINT CUP SERIES: LIFELOCK.COM 400
July 11, 2009
Todd Davis
Donna Musgrave
Richard Musgrave
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   KERRY THARP: If I can have your attention, we have a special announcement we'd like to make. Thanks to LifeLock, they had a Lock in to Win sweepstakes they sponsored this season. LifeLock.com gave the opportunity for fans to register and pick the top two finishers for the June 14 LifeLock 400 race at Michigan International Speedway. Fans could pick two drivers to finish 1-2 or 2-1, and those with the winning picks will then be part of a drawing for a trip for two to Chicago for today's race. If the selected drivers again finished 1-2 or 2-1 in the LifeLock.com 400, the contest winner wins $1 million. And that happened because Mark Martin and Jeff Gordon finished 1-2 at Michigan, Mark Martin and Jeff Gordon finished 1-2 here tonight at Chicagoland. 
 So congratulations to Donna and Richard Musgrave from Newcastle, Colorado. We also have with us Todd Davis, CEO from LifeLock. They're the people that made this thing happen. 
 First of all, I'm going to ask the lucky winners here, Donna, how does it feel to be the beneficiary and win $1 million through LifeLock? 
 DONNA MUSGRAVE: I don't have any words. I've got so many butterflies in my stomach. What a great company, what a great contest. I was having such a great time this weekend to get a chance to do things we don't normally get to do when we come to a track. This is just a bonus. I love you guys. 
 KERRY THARP: Richard. 
 RICHARD MUSGRAVE: Well, I look at it from a little different aspect. I look at it from the people that we've been associating with for the past two, three days here, what a wonderful group of people they are. To win this bonus is just unreal. It's beyond belief. We came here trying to have a little bit of fun and enjoy it and do things we haven't done before. We're walking away with a million bucks. It's all on account of this guy and my bride, who is just so good at picking things. 
 DONNA MUSGRAVE: And him. 
 RICHARD MUSGRAVE: She not only picked 1-2 at Michigan, she had 3-4 also. 
 KERRY THARP: Have to take her to Vegas with us. 
 DONNA MUSGRAVE: That's where we go to the track. 
 KERRY THARP: Todd Davis, CEO of LifeLock, tell us a little bit about this promotion. As I was saying to you, not only do you protect people's identity, you have now increased these people's identity. 
 TODD DAVIS: In fact, we're going to have to have a meeting on Monday in the office, we may have to change the name of the company to from LifeLock to LifeChangers. 
 We are honored. NASCAR fans are some of the great fans of any sport in the world. When you see Donna and Richard, they represent it. They followed the sport forever. They worked hard through the years. We got to know them extremely well over the weekend. Tried to give 'em a great experience. You really do have two great people here, they weren't coming out just looking for the win. That was great idea, but they wanted to come out and have a great time with us. To watch the change, you guys know it, look what Jeff Gordon did at the very end of that race to get up into second place. I can assure you for the last 18 laps that we were together, the tears were flowing from everybody at LifeLock, from Donna and Richard. We are so proud to be able to provide them this life-changing moment. 
 Certainly for us makes the sponsorship that much more special. Couldn't be happier for them. So congratulations to both Donna and Richard. Couldn't happen to a better couple. Thanks so much. 

 Q. Both you guys work? Do you plan to continue to do that? 
 DONNA MUSGRAVE: Yes, we do work. He'd drive me crazy at home, so he has to go to work. 

 Q. What do you do? 
 DONNA MUSGRAVE: I'll tell you where I work. I'm just a food service manager at a convenience store chain in the small town of Silt, Colorado. This last week happened to be our 40th wedding anniversary. Today is my son's 32nd birthday. 

 Q. What do you do? 
 RICHARD MUSGRAVE: I work for Master Petroleum, also in the little town of Silt. I'm actually working for two owners, trying to catch them up on things they never have time to do. That's what I've been doing. I've been retired four times and I can't stand it, I keep going back to work. Maybe I'll change my mind a little bit. Haven't been fishing this year yet. 

 Q. Who is going to win in Indy? 
 DONNA MUSGRAVE: It will cost you (laughter). 
 KERRY THARP: Thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT