TOSTITOS FIESTA BOWL: CONNECTICUT v OKLAHOMA
December 29, 2010
Travis Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Do you have a favorite team? 
 TRAVIS LEWIS: Dallas Cowboys. I'm from Texas. If you are not a Dallas Cowboy fan, you are not a football fan. Don't give me that Houston Texan nonsense.

 Q. You had a decision between Nebraska and -- what ultimately made you come to OU?
 TRAVIS LEWIS: It was big time. Both of those schools present the same options. Their fans are both insane, great tradition, great coaching, everything. So it was little things that separated -- I guess I felt a little bit more home like at Oklahoma. It was a little closer to home. Further enough away I could get out of state but close enough I could drive back because my family is big-time to me. They mean the world. The closer I can be to them the better. 
 Ifs a little warmer down in Oklahoma than it is in Nebraska in the wintertime. That was a little bit of it. It was just little things. I could have gone either way. I would have been happy playing there just like playing here because I would have been able to play with some great players that have come out of Nebraska. But fortunately to play with great players out of Oklahoma.

 Q. After the Texas A&M game a lot of people wrote you out, you will not win the Big 12 Championship. Why were you confident that this team would get it done? 
 TRAVIS LEWIS: Because we don't listen to anybody except the guys in that meeting room. We don't care what people say. Coach Stoops after that game was like: We are going to win it, we are going to win it. We are going to go down and we are going to make an incredible win. We are going to win the Big 12 Championship. 
 We never stopped believing. We believe in each other. We believe in our coaches. And we believe in the game plans.
 We felt like we beat ourselves in those two games. If we stopped beating ourselves and play the kind of football we do at home, we are going to win. And so we went down to Baylor and did exactly that. And I think that shocked a lot of people because we really shut a good offense out in Baylor and then we won a tight game versus an incredible team.
 We never stopped believing. We never stopped giving up on ourselves, and the results paid off.

 Q. How would you compare this defense this year to previous years? 
 TRAVIS LEWIS: This is a little bit younger defense. They got some veteran guys, but it is a little younger guys that haven't played as much. We make a little bit more mistakes. You make plays when you need to. We have a don't-back-down mentality. We are excited. We are excited when we get out there. 
 It is a good mix. I don't think statistically it is as strong as we have been the past two years, but we're right up there. And people can look at the stats and whatever and say we are going to score a lot of points. They get out there with us, and they're in for some trouble. You can look at it both ways. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT