U.S. WOMEN'S MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 18, 2019
Ina Kim-Schaad
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So this week, you've played a lot of great players. In the round of 16, you played our defending champion, and then you played a semifinalist from last year, and today you defeated a four-time Mid-Amateur champion. So what was it like playing with all of them? Were you intimidated or excited at all?
INA KIM-SCHAAD: You know, if I had let myself think about it for a nanosecond, I would have been absolutely intimidated. But I just tried to play my own game and not worry about what the other person was doing or who they were or what they shot or who they beat or how they did last year. It's just way too much. So I literally was just in my own bubble. Honestly, I think I won two of the matches, maybe even three, three matches this week, and I had no idea I had won on that hole because I was doing my own thing. I had no idea.
Q. So talk to me a little bit about overall this week so far. You've definitely got your putting down it seems like?
INA KIM-SCHAAD: Yes, I found my putter.
Q. Do you feel like there's comfort there a little bit?
INA KIM-SCHAAD: Absolutely, yeah. It's funny how you can just train yourself. It's a new thing for me, but just to be able to kind of channel a certain feeling in competition with the nerves and all, and I've been able to do that for multiple days now, so it's been just a life changer from the stroke play where I just kind of buckled down and I kind of kicked myself in the butt and got a grip on my putting.
Q. Overall today, would you say that's something that really clicked and has gotten better?
INA KIM-SCHAAD: Yeah, I mean, my putting was still solid today. It wasn't amazing. Yesterday was amazing. Today was just solid. You know, I just think overall, my game is pretty tidy right now. I'm not missing a lot of greens and I'm getting quite a few close enough where I'm not too worried about the birdie putt. So it's been fun. It's been kind of like a stress-free -- most of my rounds have been pretty stress-free and I hope I can keep it that way. I don't like stress.
Q. So tomorrow, you will be competing against a fellow New Yorker. Do you know her at all?
INA KIM-SCHAAD: No, I actually don't. So she actually joined us for our practice round for like a hole or two because I guess the other two in her group dropped out. But we were kind of four, playing like one or two holes in the wind, kind of late and discombobulated so I didn't get to chat with her much. I'm sure it will be nice to play with a fellow New Yorker and chat about all the things we do in the city.
Q. Who is your roommate this week?
INA KIM-SCHAAD: Meghan Stasi is my roommate this week. Meghan and I and our husbands, we all stayed together along with Annie Dulman and her mom. We had a blast. We all have fun together. We are also international fourball partners out of Florida.
Q. So what are you thinking going into tomorrow? How are you feeling?
INA KIM-SCHAAD: I just want to sleep. I just want to sleep.
Q. Are you going to be keeping the same routine you've had the past few nights?
INA KIM-SCHAAD: Pretty much. I don't know if all golfers are this way. I'm pretty convinced all my friends that I know are pretty much this way, but we're all kind of creatures of habit in this tournament and you have to stick to what you do and that's pretty much my plan.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT