U.S. WOMEN'S MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 17, 2019
Ina Kim-Schaad
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Two fantastic rounds today. This morning, you really finished early.
INA KIM-SCHAAD: Yeah, it was a really great match. I mean, we ended up halving two holes with birdies, and I just found my putter, I guess, and I think I made, what, six birdies in '13 holes.
So it just was one of those days where I just felt really confident over the ball, hitting, chipping, putting, whatever it was, and she was a great competitor. Her ball-striking was great, too. It was just fun. We had a good back and forth, I feel like.
The afternoon was the same. Shannon is such a phenomenal player. Obviously she's defending champion, so that was humbling for me. It was fun to watch her. I don't think she missed a single drive. She hit it so beautifully today. She gave me a few putts, which was great. A few putts got a way from her and I was able to seize those opportunities. Hopefully I can keep going strong tomorrow.
Q. At this point, you mentioned that you do feel a comfort level with the course. It was a lot of golf today. Are you tired?
INA KIM-SCHAAD: I feel okay so far, but it's probably just the adrenaline talking. I'm sure as soon as I walk into the apartment and shower, I'll conk out. I feel okay for now.
Q. Has it been an adjustment? I know you're from New York; dealing with the altitude.
INA KIM-SCHAAD: It's not that bad. We ran some numbers when we were practicing, and it's been pretty consistent for the most part. It's just the wind that you have to deal with. It was really tough today with the wind. It didn't swirl too much but it just was so strong. I would say consistently 15 to 20 today, right. It was just more dealing with the wind than the altitude.
Q. So what is the thought process going into the quarterfinals tomorrow.
INA KIM-SCHAAD: Same as today, take it hole-by-hole, shot-by-shot, and play my game, really, and do the best that I can do. It's all you can do, right.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT