UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 30, 2015
Matthias Farley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
An Interview With:   
MATTHIAS FARLEY   
 Q.  Just wondering you've played obviously as many big games in the country starting 2012.  Who was the best college quarterback you played against?  
MATTHIAS FARLEY: Probably Jameis Winston.  I mean he was unbelievable, making incredible throws, extending plays, getting hit and delivering, you know, an incredible ball that can only be caught by his receivers.  So I think he's got a great presence about him.   
 Q.  Obviously far different, but what have you seen from Deshaun Watson that will challenge a defense something you probably haven't seen yet this season?  
MATTHIAS FARLEY: He's a true dual-threat quarterback.  He plays with his seat.  He has a great arm, accurate passes.  Putts the ball where his receivers can get to it and gives his receivers opportunities to go make plays.  And then also, he will stand in the pocket.  It's not like he's going to look to run and just get out of there at the first sign of pressure.  He's going to stay poised, and he's a very calm quarterback, which I think, you know, manifests itself in the way he plays and also the way his teammates respond to him.   
 Q.  And when you're in these unique situations like Notre Dame going somewhere rare like Clemson, and it's been ten years since Florida State.  Do you see environment now most of the team having played at Florida State and a few of the guys played in challenging environments.  There's not many of you who have played in Oklahoma?  
MATTHIAS FARLEY: Yeah.  Anytime we go on the road it's a challenging environment, a hostile environment.  Being a night game it just adds to the environment and hoopla around the game as far as the same is concerned.   
 Q.  Maybe for the offense trying to get in, having to go games and stuff like, it's actually more entertaining?  
MATTHIAS FARLEY: More fun.   
 Q.  Once you've played in these situations it's not an intimidation factor.  It actually probably helps you a little bit?  
MATTHIAS FARLEY: Yeah, absolutely.  You feed off the energy.  A night game people usually get there early.  The stadium is going to be full for warmup.  You can find of feed off that energy in the stadium.   
 Q.  And following up on that Matthias, how do you learn to deal with that?  There's has to be an occasional process the first time, second time you deal with going into a crowd like that.  
MATTHIAS FARLEY: Well, I mean something that helps I think is you don't really have a choice, because you're there and you have to really focus because it is loud.  It is a hostile environment.  The fans don't like you, as they shouldn't.  So I think it's definitely an adjustment maybe going through warmups, maybe the first play for some guys who have never been in that situation.  But at the end of the day it really focuses on doing your job and you really key into that and you kind of put the noise out.   
 Q.  Does there have to be a learning curve?  I mean when you're young the first time that you experience it, is every young player taken aback by it?  
MATTHIAS FARLEY: I don't think so.  I think there's a lot of guys who are real poised.  And that's why you come to Notre Dame, to play in games like that and environments like that.   
 Q.  What's the first memory that you have of going into a situation like that at Notre Dame, with Notre Dame?  
MATTHIAS FARLEY: I'd say Michigan state, 2012.  I mean that place was rocking.  From the time we even pulled in on the bus before we even got in the stadium, the tailgate and the fans were getting after us.  It just adds to the excitement.  And everyone is always excited to play a game.  That's what we work for, but anytime you go into a hostile environment, you just feed off that energy.   
 Q.  Have you ever a 62-yard touchdown run in the first quarter.  Do you need like that big play when you go into a road environment to quiet the crowd early and kind of establish yourselves early?  
MATTHIAS FARLEY: I don't know if we need T I mean it definitely helps.  You know, anytime you can have a run like that, I remember running on the sideline and the whole place went quiet, which you know, is obviously big being in a hostile environment, kind of taking the momentum and taking the crowd out of it is huge.  It definitely helps, but you know, I can't say it's the most important thing.  You just have to play a very solid game in all three stages.   
 Q.  I mean is it harder to almost like come back on the road when the opposing team has momentum, the crowd is pretty raucous.  Does that make it harder to come back in that situation?  
MATTHIAS FARLEY: I don't think it makes it harder to come back.  I think it causes you to really gel together even that much more as a team and guys call each other out if someone is not playing that well or whatever it may be.  And we really look to each other to stay together in those situations and do come back.   
 Q.  Coach Kelly said yesterday he likes you guys to have enthusiasm but not emotion because emotion could be draining.  How do you kind of temper that enthusiasm or energy you get throughout the week?  
MATTHIAS FARLEY: We just treat it like every other week, you know.  It's the biggest game on our schedule because it's the next game on our schedule, and to not get way up or way down for a team or an opponent, to focus same way you do each and every week, prepare the same way and not listen to the hoopla and all the noise surrounding the game.   
 Q.  And over the years they reference Michigan state, Oklahoma.  How have you gotten better personally when you go into those environments at staying calm, staying controlled, focusing just on your job?  
MATTHIAS FARLEY: Well, Michigan State that was the first time I played because that's when Jim Morris got hurt and I really didn't have a choice.  You have to walk in and be -- there can't be any dropoff if you come in, or if you are a starter and you are in, you can't have any -- you can't let the crowd affect you.  You have to do your job.  So myself personally, you know, I got thrust into a weird situation, which maybe probably acclimatized to it may be a little faster just because I really didn't have a choice or there wasn't really a grace period for me to figure it out.  Just you had to do it.   
 Q.  You just got tossed in there as opposed to thinking about it all week?  
MATTHIAS FARLEY: Yeah.  I mean I don't think guys think about it all week.  Guys are focused on doing their job and not how loud the crowd is going to be.   
 Q.  I know you say you want to treat it like another game, but I mean in all reality it's not.  There's been some talk back and forth from both sides.  Do you pay attention to that?  Does that like add anything to it at all?  
MATTHIAS FARLEY: I mean I'm being 100 percent honest when I say it's another game.  I mean it's a big game.  All our games are big.  But you know, I don't think anybody looks at it as bigger than last or bigger than next.  It's the most important because it's the one we're about to play.   
 Q.  And then Deshaun Watson, he's had some inconsistencies throughout his career.  How important is it to show him some different looks and kind of confuse him early on?  
MATTHIAS FARLEY: I think that's important in any situation, with any quarterback.  You know, Deshaun is a great quarterback, and he's very, very poised.  So you know, it's going to be big for us to try to do that early, but you know, at the end of the day we have to be doing our job each and every play.   
 Q.  Matthias, before the tech game b k talked a little bit about being the underdog and kind of motivating you that way.  Last week was more about how favored you guys are and be weary against that.  Does this team get a lot of juice out of both those things, you know, in terms of being a motivating factor?  
MATTHIAS FARLEY: I don't know if it's a big motivating factor.  I think it's more of just being aware of it.  Coach Kelly does a great job of making sure you're aware of whatever could be the potential down fall.  No one wants to be said to be the underdog at home.  That would add for a home environment.  And then obviously a game like last week, you have to keep your foot on the gas.  So Coach Kelly did a great job all week of reminding us that, you know, UMass can beat you if you don't come to work if you don't come and prepare the right way all week.  I don't know if it's an up-and-down thing as far as the emotion and feelings, go, but it's the constant reminders that we get from the coaches that you have to prepare the same way no matter who you're playing.   
 Q.  Is that sort of a universal theme since you've been here?  Like do different teams have different personalities?  This team may be motivated by that whereas in 2012 maybe you guys didn't care whether you were underdogs or favorite?  
MATTHIAS FARLEY: I don't think guys care, you know.  Because I mean everybody wants to beat us.  I mean we could beat the No. 1 team in the country and be the underdog the next week.  So I think it's just being aware that that's the case and preparing each and every week the same way and not letting any dropoff happen throughout the season.   
THE MODERATOR: Any other questions for Matthias?  Thank you very much, Matthias.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT