UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 6, 2008
Morgan Trent
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Morgan Trent. 

 Q. What were some of the issues with some of the key plays on Saturday? What happened and what went wrong? 
 MORGAN TRENT: Miscommunications, missed assignments, really. They had a great scheme going in the game, honestly. They ran a few thing that's we hadn't seen before so we had to adjust to it. Honestly, I don't think we adjusted well enough and quick enough to handle some of them. 

 Q. Coach said you're going to see some of those same screen passes from Toledo's offense. I guess having seen it are you more confident that you're more prepared for it? 
 MORGAN TRENT: I would say so. It's something we've got to go through practice and really get the handle on it. The defense missed a lot. So some of those passes are a way to counter that. 
 So we'll have to learn how to play that better and get off the blocks and make some tackles.

 Q. With Donovan now being out last week, are you guys trying to compensate anyway in your play out there? 
 MORGAN TRENT: Not really. If it he's out there, we think he can go. But we've got confidence that he'll be all right. So, not really. We'll see how it goes this weekend and see what's going on for Saturday.

 Q. Coach talked about the wideouts being a tough match, 6'4", 6' 5", how tough is it to have a match-up like that? 
 MORGAN TRENT: Of course, it's obviously tough to cover when it comes to throwing the high balls. I don't know much about them, so I don't know what they're like. I heard they're great receivers and they've got great talent. So it will be fun and a great match-up.

 Q. Is it kind of dangerous, an underdog team coming into the big town, they're going to have a chip on their shoulder?
 MORGAN TRENT: Definitely. Underdog, I guess. I've heard they have a great team this year. Like I said, I haven't watched too much film. But it's not going to be a cake walk, you know. We can't not play our best game and expect to win.

 Q. (Asking about How the defense is playing)?
 MORGAN TRENT: I don't think we're playing bad. We didn't play our best last game, obviously. We just played up to our expectations and the level that we could. 
 But all together we're not playing bad defense. We came up with a great win last week, and that's great, you know, but we've just got to follow it up. Really just follow it up. 

 Q. Coming off that week, what do you expect? 
 MORGAN TRENT: To have a great performance like we did in the second half. To really stumble the way we did in the last game, it's disappointing.

 Q. As a fifth-year senior, what can you do to make sure something like that doesn't happen again? 
 MORGAN TRENT: Just continue to lead and play hard. We've got enough guys on defense. Enough seniors and leaders to be able to get it together and understand what we did on Saturday wasn't acceptable. 

 Q. There were some plays where guys were soft at times on Saturday. How hard was it to hear that? 
 MORGAN TRENT: No, to answer your question. It is very tough. That's something you never want to hear on defense. That is a word that you hope never comes up, so, of course we're disappointed to hear that. 
 We've just got to continue to get better. You should never be soft. That is something that we can control, you know all the time. That shouldn't come up again. 

 Q. Were you able to see it on film when you guys watched the tape? 
 MORGAN TRENT: The film never lies. That's one thing. The film gives an honest testament of what's going on. The film shows you where you're at and how good you really are. So it's blatant on the film to see who's doing what and who is not doing what.

 Q. In the film, what did you see from Mike Williams getting the timeout there in that situation? 
 MORGAN TRENT: Mike played well at times. He's capable of making big plays. He's a hard hitter and a tough guy. Some plays are more mental with him - knowing his scheme, and knowing what to do when he's playing. So we've just got to continue to work with him, and he'll be fine. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT