NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: KINGS v DEVILS
June 8, 2012
David Clarkson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for David Clarkson. 

Q.   Is the spirit out there, We're home, let's get another one?
DAVID CLARKSON:   We're taking it one game at a time.   With things down in L.A., we know we've got to do better.   We're going to give everything we have.   We're having fun out there.   This time of the season you have to have fun.   That's what's going on.   We're enjoying ourselves. 

Q.   We all know the 0‑3 hole is supposed to be insurmountable.   We've seen it happen lately.   Does that add a little more to this, to know it can be done?
DAVID CLARKSON:   Yeah, we believe it can be done.   If we didn't believe, we wouldn't be showing up every night.   We always believe in here.   We have a lot of heart and character.   We're going to give everything we have every shift and every play.   That's all we can do right now.

Q.   How much does it mean to get back on home ice?
DAVID CLARKSON:   It's great to be able to come home.   It was a nice flight home when you know you're coming home.   Like I said, we still have to take this game by game, playbyplay.   We're having fun.   It's ahead of us.   We're going to give it everything we have. 

Q.   Pete talked about, after Game3 as a coaching staff, it was imperative for them to stay positive.   Is it easier for players to believe in that when there's a tangible result like Wednesday night?
DAVID CLARKSON:   Yeah, you know, if you watched all three of those early games, we're doing good things.   We're getting on the forecheck, we're creating offense.   We finally found a way last game to get a couple by 'em.   At the end of the day, that's what we have to do, is get around the net, get in front of them, make plays. 
You have to be positive right now.   You can't really look at too many down things at this time of the season.   We just got to keep pushing.

Q.   In years past, this building wasn't friendly to you in the playoffs.   This year has been different.   Why? 
DAVID CLARKSON:   I don't know.   I think you go through ups and downs as an organization or a team, I think.   We're back where we belong.   These fans have been great.   It's nice we're playing good again back at home. 
This is my first time making it this far, too.   It's been a fun ride.   The fans have been supportive and great for us.

Q.   I saw you and Pete having a long conversation before practice ended.   What were you talking about?
DAVID CLARKSON:   No, just something about the power play.   Wasn't really a talk about anything.   Just more a spot on the power play.   There really wasn't anything.   It was just a little position thing. 
It was a fun practice.   If you saw it, we were enjoying ourselves, getting ready for tomorrow.

Q.   You're in a hole, but it seems like you guys are generally enjoying yourself. 
DAVID CLARKSON:   Yeah, we are.   You know, we know what's ahead of us.   All we can do every night is come out, stick to your system, play our best.   Every game this series, as the series has gone on, we've done little things better and better.   Hopefully they do keep getting better. 
We have to be ready for tomorrow and push.   At this time of the year, like I said earlier, you have to enjoy yourselves and find a way to win. 

Q.   'Redemption' is a word we use sometimes in hockey. 
DAVID CLARKSON:   I said after the game, when you go in the box, you feel like you're in the doghouse a bit, feel like you've done something pretty bad.   Give a pass across, Henrique making the play, the score, was probably the best feeling I've had in a long time. 
That's the way this team has played all season.   When guys get penalties, things happen, we find a way to battle back, kill it off.   We have to find a way to continue to do it.

Q.   What is it about the rapport or the relationship that you've developed with the coaches that have helped you here?
DAVID CLARKSON:   I believe he's a big part of the reason of why I'm here today.   As a kid, he believed in me, pushed me. 
You know what you're getting.   He knows what he's getting, as well.   I think just believing.   He's given me an opportunity.   He's given me the biggest opportunity I've had in my career so far.   It's been fun.   It's been the funnest season I have.   I guess it has to do with making it this far, as well. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT