NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: KINGS v DEVILS
June 5, 2012
David Clarkson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for David Clarkson.   
   
 Q.   Are you flabbergasted that you find yourselves down 3‑0 at this point?  
DAVID CLARKSON:   Yeah, I think we've played some good hockey and bounces haven't gone our way.   This is part of the way things go.   This is playoffs.   Bounces go your way or don't.   We're not going to give up.   We have a great group of guys.   
I think last game we did a lot of good things.   I don't think the score showed for how well we played at certain times.   We have to find a way to get it by them, but at the same time we're doing good things.  
   
 Q.   You got to find a way to win.   What do you have to do differently?   Pucks aren't going in.   
DAVID CLARKSON:   I think we've got to find a way to create more traffic, bear down on the chances we're getting.   We've got a lot of heart in that locker room.   We're going to continue to push.   This has been a lot of fun for us.   It's not over.   We're going to come out next game and hopefully get one in there early and keep pushing.  
   
 Q.   Can something as simple as getting the first goal turn the tide for you guys?  
DAVID CLARKSON:   That would be nice if we get one by and roll with it.   He's a great goalie.   He's played outstanding for them.   They're a good hockey team.   
It's going to be a lot of hard work.   I think we can do it.   We have the guys in there, for sure.   
   
 Q.   Is it key just to look at one game, one win, go from there?  
DAVID CLARKSON:   That's kind of what we have to do.   We have to go shift by shift, play by play, game by game.   We played for each other.   We've gone through a lot of ups and downs.   This is one of the those things I think we can battle back from.   We have to continue to believe in ourselves, in our system, find a way to get one by them, like we've all been saying.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT