NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: KINGS v DEVILS
June 4, 2012
David Clarkson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for David Clarkson. 

Q.   Coach says he thinks you're ready to break out.   Do you feel like that?   How do you feel like it's gone for you so far in the finals? 
DAVID CLARKSON:   Yeah, I think as a team, we're right there.   I think we did a lot of good things last game.   I think we were on the forecheck.   Obviously, you'd like things to go a bit different.   Marty made big saves for us.   We were good in our zone and pressing a bit in their zone. 
Personally, I would have liked to have had a couple of those back in Game1.   This is a time of the season where you don't get too many of those chances. 
Hopefully they keep coming, bear down a bit more.   But, yeah, I think with just working hard, hopefully everything comes together. 

Q.   Is that what Quick does to shooters?   You know he's having such an unbelievable playoff.   Not a lot of holes there.   You're almost rushing to fire, not let him get set in his supposed weak spots. 
DAVID CLARKSON:   Yeah, he's a good goalie.   I'm sure guys think of the same way when they're coming down to our end. 
The first one I let get away from me, was trying to go high.   I thought maybe he was going to go down, I tried to go up high, missing that one.   There was so much excitement when I saw the open net, I don't know if I hit the guy's skate or what happened. 
But, yeah, he's a goalie that definitely makes you think.   You can't do that.   This time of the season, we have to put it on net, get back to doing what made us successful and got us here today. 

Q.   David, do you like the idea of mixing it up, having traveled west?   Do you embrace this kind of change at this stage given that you're in a bit of a hole?
DAVID CLARKSON:   Yeah, you know, it's nice to still be playing right now.   We're all excited.   We believe in that locker room.   We've got a great group of guys.   It was nice when we got on that plane as a team, flew together, joked around a little bit, getting ready for what's ahead of us. 
We never stopped believing.   I think we've got to play well tonight.   We've got to do a lot of good things. 
Yeah, it's nice to be here.   You come in yesterday, it's sunny.   You get in here and land.   At the end of the day, our jobs are today to go out there and get a win. 

Q.   Are you feeling any pressure?   Are you able to enjoy this? 
DAVID CLARKSON:   Enjoy it?   I don't feel like I'm trying to do too much or too much pressure.   This is the time of the season where you have to have fun. 
When you get those chances, do you want to put it in?   Yeah.   It's something you obviously got to do.   At the end of the day, to be here, to be playing, you know, you've got to find a way to enjoy it. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, David. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT