NHL ALL-STAR WEEKEND
January 25, 2008
David Clarkson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  The only member of the New Jersey Devils that's here is David Clarkson.  How does this all feel to you? 
 DAVID CLARKSON:  It's an honor.  When I found out I was coming I was pretty excited and still in awe.  I'm a little bit nervous, but I'm ready and I'm happy to be here. 

 Q.  Who are you looking forward to meeting? 
 DAVID CLARKSON:  To be honest, everybody.  When I was a kid I used to watch.  And some of these guys I watched growing up and just to be here is an honor.  It's like being in my own locker room with Marty Brodeur. 
 You're sometimes in awe just sitting across from him.  So it's an honor to be here and sitting in the same locker room as all these guys.  To see Gomez again and all the guys, it will be pretty nice. 

 Q.  As I look at you I see the stitches above the left eye.  I read something recently about how you were saying you were brought up, your dad brought you up to never back down from anybody or anything.  That's the way you play.  How has it been this year on a regular basis for you? 
 DAVID CLARKSON:  It's been good.  I enjoy doing that.  It's not the fact of backing down.  I've learned a lot about the right time and the right place.  But the big thing is sticking up for my teammates when the team needs a spark.  But the stitches came recently.  I've just got to keep working hard.  I've learned a ton from my coaching staff.  I've learned more this year than I have in a long time.  It's really helped me out in my season. 

 Q.  As you grew up playing pee-wee hockey and all that, was there a player or players that you tried to model your game after? 
 DAVID CLARKSON:  Wendell Clarke.  Wendell Clarke is a guy I've looked up to since I was a kid.  If I met him today I'd be nervous to shake his hand because that's how much I idolized him.  I used to run around pretending I was him when I was a kid.  So I looked up to him a lot.  I've had the opportunity to almost meet him once, I just missed him.  But I'm sure I'd be nervous just to meet him because I idolize him that much. 

 Q.  All the best and continued success.  Have fun this weekend? 
 DAVID CLARKSON:  I will.  Thank you very much. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT