ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 28, 2019
Calum Hill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Thoughts on your third round?  
CALUM HILL: That's the second time I've played Carnoustie. One practice round. I think it's brilliant. I really had a good time around there. It's tricky and you can get yourself in trouble quick.   
Relatively happy with the day. Under-par round. Quite happy.   
 Q.  People say it's the greatest test that there is in golf but you coped through admirably out there?  
CALUM HILL: It was okay. I managed to save myself a couple times. I didn't put it in the perfect spot all the way around but managed to save myself a couple times.   
 Q.  How special is it playing as a Scottish golfer on a famous links and doing well?  
CALUM HILL: Yeah, like my time at The Scottish Open, it's nice to be home playing in front of family and friends. It's a good feeling.   
 Q.  Is it going to keep the pressure on with people watching you or does it relax you?  
CALUM HILL: I don't really mind either way but I seem to play quite well when people are watching, so that seems to be a helping factor. Hopefully that continues.   
 Q.  And this is a fairly unique and special tournament, isn't it, with the amateur format, as well, and obviously your individual event and obviously you've got the three different courses. Is it to your liking?  
CALUM HILL: Yeah, I do enjoy it. It's nice meeting different people each day. I've had -- my amateur partner, John, is brilliant and the three amateurs I've joined up with over the last three days have been nice, as well. It's been fun.   
 Q.  Did you feel good coming into this? Did you think you had any special rounds in you?  
CALUM HILL: It's been for a couple months now, I've been playing really nicely. I had one bad tournament before I took a break and went to America for a few days. But since coming back, first tournament back and I'm back into the form I was prior to that. It's been going well and hopefully it continues.   
 Q.  How does it feel as a Scot, very much in contention, for a tournament, a big tournament like this on Scottish soil?  
CALUM HILL: It's brilliant. It will be really nice probably think tomorrow playing the Old Course with a chance, and all I can hope for is to have a shot at the title coming the last two holes, three, four holes.   
 Q.  What do you do now, do you go and hit the practice range, putting green, or do you try and switch off a little bit? What do you do to prepare for the final round tomorrow?  
CALUM HILL: I will most likely get some food and hit a few balls and a few putts and call it a day because everything is going quite nicely.   
 Q.  Confidence up for tomorrow?  
CALUM HILL: Yeah, feeling good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT