ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 12, 2019
Calum Hill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Calum, looked like you were enjoying yourself?
CALUM HILL: Yeah, I had a nice time.  Was hitting a lot of nice golf shots so was pretty stress-free with regard to having to save pars or do things that would put a bit of stress on your game.  It was good.  I had a nice time.
Q. What was the secret to such a strong round for you?
CALUM HILL: It was probably ball-striking wise, really.  Hit a lot of good golf shots, a lot of mid, long irons close, which you don't do every day.  A lot of really strong iron shots set up a few birdies for me.
Q. You seem very cool, calm and collected.  Is that the secret to having a successful couple rounds of golf?
CALUM HILL: I think so.  If you just ease your way around, you're probably having a nicer time than if your heart is racing or stressed out I would imagine in.
Q. So just enjoy your golf?
CALUM HILL: Yeah, most of the time, I guess so.
Q. Do you feel you've come in under the radar?
CALUM HILL: Obviously not having a main European Tour card and not being in events like this every week, week-in, week-out, I would imagine that I wouldn't be expected to perform or challenge for the lead.  But everybody sets their own goals, don't they.
Q. 10-under par, seven birdies, absolutely fantastic.  How much does that exceed your expectations that you had going into this event?
CALUM HILL: I didn't really set any goals, but obviously I wouldn't be playing if I didn't expect myself to play well and contend to the best of my ability.  So I would say that I'm on par with where I'd like to be and as long as I keep pushing forward, I'll be quite happy end of the week.
Q. What are your expectations or targets for the final two rounds?
CALUM HILL: I think I'll just repeat days one and two and see where that ends up.  Obviously in the back of your mind, you're wanting a spot for next week and that would be the best outcome.  We'll just see in a couple days.
Q. That's the important thing, isn't it, use the Open place as a great incentive rather than something that over shadows your game?
CALUM HILL: Yeah, it's just a bonus; if that happens to be the outcome at the end of the week, it's a bonus, but it's nothing that you're worrying about.
Q. And to do so well in The Scottish Open finally, and in front of the Scottish crowd, how exciting, how special is that?
CALUM HILL: It's just nice to have another week where my family is able to come out.  My mom and dad obviously watch me play golf every so often, but other family members, uncles and cousins who may not see me play golf and may not know what I do on an extended level, it's just nice to have them out and watch.
Q. And to be at the top of the Scots at the halfway stage, does that make it a wee bit more special?
CALUM HILL: I mean, it's nice.  It is a very nice little bonus.  Obviously there's still people ahead of me, so can't be satisfied with that.
Q. So don't get carried away; just stay cool, calm and selected?
CALUM HILL: Yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT