U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2018
Karl Vilips
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Want to ask you about surviving and advancing.  That's the name of the game now.
KARL VILIPS: Yeah.
Q. Did you survive today or was it more that he played well?
KARL VILIPS: I think we both played well.  I shot 1-under and he shot even or something like that.
You know, I think I definitely need to improve my game.  It was my worst ball striking day of the week so far.
I was kind of grinding.  It went 1-up, 1-down, all square, and all that stuff, but I think I survived in the end to pull through making the long putt on the last.
Q. I don't know if you watch the NCAA basketball tournament much when it's in March, but it's kind of the same format where you've got to win six in a row.  They always say there is that one game where you don't play but you still win.
KARL VILIPS: Yeah, that was probably one of the days like today.  You shoot 1-under out here, play against someone that's really good, that's not (indiscernible.)
I think I got a little bit lucky in that sense, but I definitely earned it.
Q. Yeah.  Tell me about the birdie through the trees on 12.
KARL VILIPS: Oh, yeah.  Hit my drive and it was only off the fairway by about two yards.  Hit the very left side of the tree and kicks 30, 40 yards into the woods.  I saw my lie; it wasn't bad.  I had to hit it high over a really tall tree.
Had a good number, 136, but it was only a good number because I had to hit it high.  So it was a good 9-iron.  Saw it barely get over the trees.  I said, Go and it went, and it was like six feet, and then lipped in the putt.
So it was a really good birdie, great momentum maker, and pretty much set the pace.
Q. That gave you the confidence...
KARL VILIPS: Yes, uh-huh.
Q. Yeah.  And then obviously you went 2-up at 15.  He comes out with a conceded eagle at 17.  Then you get into this situation at 18.  What are you thinking when your second shot goes over the green?
KARL VILIPS: I'm thinking it's not bad over there.  I thought I hit the right club.  The wind was howling and switching directions everywhere on the last hole.  It ended up just blowing it straight right.
At that point I'm thinking, You, know par, just get up and down.  He has one shot for birdies.  Chances of making it are pretty slim.
It was all about hitting that chip within about ten feet, because my putting inside of that distance has been pretty good this week.
Q. Looked like you got over it and it just rolled perfectly.  Hit it where you wanted to.
KARL VILIPS: Yeah.  All those right-to-left putts inside of ten feet I'm very confident with, and that one especially I knew was going to go in.
Q. How do you feel right now?  Now you're heading into where you're going to be playing twice a day.
KARL VILIPS: Uh-huh.  Feels good.  Feels like I've conserved my energy pretty well this week.  I've just come off a couple 36-hole events, and I think the way I maintain my nutrition and hydration during the day is going to be key.
I think I do a very good job of that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT