NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v SPURS
May 24, 2014
Thabo Sefolosha
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What are these couple of days off good for?   
THABO SEFOLOSHA:   Yeah, just clearing my mind.   I think that's the thing, just thinking about something else a little bit, going on the court and having fun, just playing basketball and refocusing slowly into it.   
   
 Q.   With Serge, if he does come back, do you guys focus on that, how you play with him, or if he does play it'll just be like it has been?   
THABO SEFOLOSHA:   We had I don't know games with him this season, so it's nothing new.   We hope he'll be back, but we haven't practiced with him yet or anything like that.  
   
 Q.   How would you assess your personal defense after watching film?  
THABO SEFOLOSHA:   It's decent.   We've got to keep communicating.   We see things that we can do better as a team, and that's the main thing.   We know we've got another level that we can get to.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel like personally you've got to stay in front of your guy better?   
THABO SEFOLOSHA:   At times, but I think it's five men just playing defense.   When it works, it's five guys doing it right, and when it doesn't work, it's five guys that got to figure it out.  
   
 Q.   You guys have overcome a lot this Playoffs already against Memphis, against the Clippers.   What's allowed you to do that and what do you need in this scenario, as well?  
THABO SEFOLOSHA:   I think just sticking to one another, knowing what we're capable of, trusting the offense, trusting the defense, and playing basketball, not worry about what you guys write and think about and everything like this.   It's about us, it's about what basketball we play, and we know we're capable of doing it.   
   
 Q.   When you're not hitting shots, how do you (inaudible)?  
THABO SEFOLOSHA:   You just come out and practice hard and do it in practice.   You see some shots fall in and you feel confident again about it.   You can't think about it too much.  
   
 Q.   When the team's defense has broken down, how much of it has been communication and how much of it has been other fundamentals?   
THABO SEFOLOSHA:   I think a lot of it has been communication these past two games.   Even though I think at times we did a good job, but also they're a good team.   We've got to give them credit.   We're not the first team that they kind of broke down defensively, so we've got to see what has been working, what has not been working and focus on what has been working.  
   
 Q.   How important is making good decisions on screens because they set so many of them?  
THABO SEFOLOSHA:   Yeah, it's key.   We know what they like to do, set screens, get to the paint and then kick it out to shooters.   It's a tough task, but we're capable of doing it.   
   
 Q.   How much more of it is just doing better what you normally do, fixing things?  
THABO SEFOLOSHA:   It's a little bit of both, I think.   There's things that we looked at that we're probably going to change a little bit, but other than that it's just being prideful, going out there and playing hard.  
   
 Q.   Are they running you off your shot more than most teams?  
THABO SEFOLOSHA:   I think so.   Again, they've got a smart coach.   They know what they like to give up and what they don't want to give up.   They try to play to your strengths and weaknesses.   We've just got to, again, trust the offense and stay confident.   
   
 Q.   What kind of an emotional lift was it when you heard that it was possible that Serge could come back?   
THABO SEFOLOSHA:   It's big.   You know, obviously.   We know we want Serge to be back, but he's got to be healthy and come back.   If he can play, definitely he's going to help us a lot.  
   
 Q.   Have you talked to him about his injury?   How is his emotional state?  
THABO SEFOLOSHA:   Emotionally he's fine, but he's coming back into it slowly.   He don't want to rush anything.   I think day after day he's feeling a little bit better, so hopefully he'll be back tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Are you surprised that he may be able to come back so soon?  
THABO SEFOLOSHA:   A little bit, but I think it's different grades of injury when you injure your calf and a muscle like that.   I'm just happy of the news and hopefully he'll be back for the game.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT