NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v SPURS
May 20, 2014
Thabo Sefolosha
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Does it hurt or is it just that you can't put pressure on it?
THABO SEFOLOSHA:   Yeah, I told myself coming back, I wanted to make sure that it was fully recovered, and basically you can't think too much about it once you're back.   But definitely the weeks leading to me coming back, it's just a little frustrating.   It takes time, and I've just got to be real cautious. 
It's a tough injury because you never know exactly how much time (inaudible).

Q.   Does it hurt?   Is it lingering or do you just know‑‑
THABO SEFOLOSHA:   Yeah, it hurts a little bit. 

Q.   Last night you guys started 4 of 15 and I talked to Rex at halftime and he said it was the fact that you were getting open looks, they weren't falling, maybe playing a little too quick, actually set the table for some of your defensive problems.   Is he right about that, and how do you correct that tomorrow? 
THABO SEFOLOSHA:   Well, I think we played decent on both ends of the floor to start the game.   Obviously shots weren't falling, but I think we got some open looks, and other than that I think we've just got to communicate on the defensive end.   Made baskets, they're going to try to run initially, and we've just got to build a wall.   They've got some guys that can break the defense down and go straight to the basket.   We've got to throw that off by communicating and being on the same page. 

Q.   (Inaudible.) Is that a comfortable play for you or would you rather be able to take that three?
THABO SEFOLOSHA:   I mean, if the three is open, I definitely would rather take the three, but they did a decent job getting us off the line.   It's a comfortable shot for me.   It's been falling and (inaudible).

Q.   (Inaudible.)
THABO SEFOLOSHA:   I mean, it's good for the team.   It's good for myself.   I think we've got to (inaudible) keep taking those shots when they're open.

Q.   There were times last night where you guys defended the pick‑and‑roll really well.   Do you notice any differences in the times you were able to kind of close that off and shut down those driving runs?
THABO SEFOLOSHA:   A difference?   I don't know, but I think we did it at times and not enough.   Again, I think communication is key for us.   Us not having Serge out there is a little bit of an adjustment for all of us, and we run a lot of small lineups, and we've just going to keep working and figure it out.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT