U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2017
Frankie Capan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So you got up early.  How did you do that?  
FRANKIE CAPAN: So the first hole we halved with fives, and the second hole, hit a good tee shot on the fairway.  Then hit an okay pitching wedge.  I hit it a little harder than I wanted to, but it was fortunate to spin back and made about a 15, 20-footer above the cup to go 1-up.   
Then on 2, Cole was in a pretty good spot.  They shortened that hole, so I was actually able to hit a hybrid on the green.  I hit a hybrid on the green to about 40 feet, but it was a huge curler putt, and I had to play it way out left and hit a great putt.  Rolled it down there to about two feet under the hole.   
Cole actually hit a really good chip to about three-and-a-half feet, and I think he just shoved it a little bit.  I got 2-up there, and Cole made a clutch birdie on the next hole, made about a 40-foot-curler to get it back to one.   
I made a couple mistakes on the next hole, and he was able to get it back to All Square.  Kept staying patient.  Was fortunate to win 9 and 10, and then Cole kind of went on a little run there, and I was kind of in a lull.  Couldn't really get anything going.   
I actually I hit a lot of good shots coming in.  My distance control was off.  I was in between a lot of times and just took a little bit too much or just hit a little bit high and came up short a few times.  But that's how it goes sometimes.   
 Q.  Is there disappointment in having a couple of sizable leads and then it gets away from you?  
FRANKIE CAPAN: Yeah, definitely.  Whenever you're playing a great player like Cole, whenever you're up, you've got to capitalize.  I just wasn't able to do that.  I didn't give myself enough birdie chances to put any pressure on him when I was up.  Then he was able to make a couple runs and made a few clutch putts coming in.   
 Q.  What's that say about him that he's able to come over a couple of deficits in one match and still come out on top?  
FRANKIE CAPAN: Yeah, it shows he's a great player and he's clutch.  When he's down, he doesn't get too frustrated and doesn't try to force anything.  He just keeps playing his game and he's able to make some putts.  I feel like I'm like that --  I feel like we're kind of similar players, I just didn't have my stuff today.   
 Q.  Even when you were up, did you always feel like he was going to come back on you?  
FRANKIE CAPAN: No, I didn't feel like he was going to come back, but I knew he would hit good shots and I had to hold him off, and I'm supposed to be able to do that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT