U.S. AMATEUR FOUR-BALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 29, 2017
Frankie Capan
Shuai Ming Wong
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Congratulations on the win.  Was it 3-up, was that the final?  
SHUAI MING WONG: Four-three.   
 Q.  Okay.  Just walk me through the match a little bit?  
SHUAI MING WONG: Oh, so the match started off and we were pretty pumped going into the Match Play portion.  We were looking forward to it all night, all day after qualifying yesterday.  I guess we had a pretty steady start.  We tied a couple holes, and then Frankie made a good birdie on hole 3 which kind of got us going they played really well, had really good putts.  But they just didn't fall.   
I made a birdie on hole 5 to get us to two up, and then we got into a little bit of trouble with 7 and 8.  They made a good birdie on 7 and we had some trouble on 8.  So we got it back to all square, and hole 9, we halved hole 9, and then up-and-down.   
FRANKIE CAPAN: Ten, he made a good birdie, and then had a mishap on 11, and we won with a par there.  They actually made like a 50-foot par putt on the next hole to have it, and then on, what, 13?   
SHUAI MING WONG: Yeah, 13.   
FRANKIE CAPAN: I made a good putt to go 3-up, and at that point we were feeling pretty confident.  Then just made two pars and ended on 15, four-three.   
 Q.  I feel like the atmosphere today has completely shifted.  It's really fun and friendly over the last two days, and today it's all business.  So what's it like to keep your composure and try not to let the pressure get to you?  How do you guys feel about that?  
FRANKIE CAPAN: I honestly feel like there is almost less pressure now.  I don't know why.  Knowing I've been there he's been playing pretty well and making some putts.  But I'm a huge fan of the Match Play just overall.  I feel like it suits our games very well.  We can make a lot of birdies between the two of us and don't make a whole lot of mistakes.  I'm looking forward to tomorrow's match.   
SHUAI MING WONG: You're saying about the friendly atmosphere, totally agree.  The stroke play portion, we talked to the other partners and said great shot, great drive.  Today even when we hit good shots, we were just like all business, as you said.   
But I agree with Frankie, having just a partner there and knowing that someone's there to back you up at all times, you just kind of free swing and try to make birdies and try to go as low as possible.   
 Q.  How have you guys played four-ball together before?  
SHUAI MING WONG: We played last year.   
 Q.  How far did you make it last year?  
SHUAI MING WONG: We lost in the round of 16.   
 Q.  So you made it past today last year too?  
FRANKIE CAPAN: Yeah, yeah.   
 Q.  All right.  Good luck tomorrow.  I hope you get to play 36 holes and we'll talk to you again?  
FRANKIE CAPAN: Thank you, appreciate it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT