EASTERN WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 2, 2017
Mitch Fettig
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Texas Tech - 56, Eastern Washington - 10
Q. You faced a pretty good Texas Tech team.  You were in on a lot of tackles today, led the team in tackles with eight.  What was the thing that made it difficult today in terms of what Texas Tech did?
MITCH FETTIG: It comes down to execution.  I mean, given the calls, we've just got to make sure everyone, all are on the same page at the same time.  That's really what it comes down to.  We had some missed tackles in open field.  We had some missed assignments that shot us in the foot and led to big touchdowns, and our whole goal was to limit explosives, and we didn't do that today, and that's why that happened.  It was what it was.
Q. I thought they did a better job offensively of kind of spreading you from sideline to sideline, that kind of opened up the run, and then that set off some of the big plays, the explosive plays along those lines.  Are those things that you can clean up down the road?  Is that something you guys can improve on?
MITCH FETTIG: Oh, yeah.  Every mistake that was made today is things that can be improved on.  We're going to watch some film tonight watch the film tomorrow.  It's going to sting, let it sting tonight, and we'll make the adjustments moving forward.  It's just going to be a stepping-stone.  It's just a little turbulence in the road like coach best always said, so we've just got to move forward from there.
Q. North Dakota State coming in next week.  I know 2016 is in the past, but this is something that can kind of right the ship for Eastern Washington.  What do you need to do between now watching film and getting ready for next week against the Bison?
MITCH FETTIG: Just a lot of film, make sure we execute at the end of the day.  We have people in the right spots at the right times, we've just got to make the play, and that's what it's going to take against North Dakota State.  They're a very physical outfit.  It's going to be a fun game.  We've just got to be physical, out-physical them and watch some film, and we'll be okay.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT