CIMB CLASSIC
November 1, 2015
Ben Leong
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 6-under for you today.  Can you just sum up your day?
BEN LEONG: Yeah, it was a good day.  I made my fair share of putts today.  I hit it okay.  A lot better compared to the last three days and there you go, 66.
Unfortunately, I had two bogeys, but I made some long ones.  You make some, you miss some.  So, yeah, it's a good day, good finish, looking forward to my next tournament, definitely.
Q. You had six birdies in your second nine, just walk us through what was going there you your mind.
BEN LEONG: I was trying to hit fairways, trying to hit it as close as possible to the pin.  Just focused one shot at a time, and I was able to do it.
I putted really well today.  I made some really good five, 6-footers to keep the momentum going.  Yeah, I made some 12 footers, 15 footers.
And all in all, I wasn't really counting my birdies on how many under am I.  I guess I was in the zone today.  Just focusing on my pre-shot routine.  Focusing on my target and that's about it.
Q. Was it a struggle for you in the first three days?
BEN LEONG: I think it was.  I struggled in my long game a little bit.  I was a little bit quick on my transition.
Funny enough, I didn't go to the range to work it out.  I just did it at the golf course.  I just slowed down and don't try to go hard at it, just smooth.  Everything in my head was just keep it simple and smooth.  That's it.
Q. Finished as the best Malaysian in the tournament.  Are you happy with how you performed this week?
BEN LEONG: Definitely.  It is my first PGA TOUR event.  Nothing more I could ask for, especially finishing in red numbers, even though I'm like 20 shots behind the winner.
But, still, I've been playing on this golf course for quite awhile now, and I know I struggle a bit because I haven't really performed well on this golf course.
But, yeah, all in all, I'm learning my trade, I'm learning, yeah.
Q. It's been a turnaround a couple of months now.  The form has been back up there.  Just what are you doing right now, do you think?
BEN LEONG: I guess I'm just keeping it simple.  Nothing more, nothing less, as I said it before.  Just play three hours on the golf course, an hour on the gym and that's it.  I don't try to complicate things like I used to.
Yeah, I think that's my thing that I need to keep believing, keeping it simple, stick to my three hours on the golf course and one hour in the gym, and yeah.
Because before it was just like hitting golf balls at the range like searching, looking, I'm not owning what I'm having, I'm just borrowing it every day.
But now I'm more like stick to this one, just believe in it, and there you go.  Some of it could be bad, some of it could be good, but just keep doing it, because golf is such a funny game because sometimes you have it, sometimes you don't.  And the important thing is just to stay patient and not give up.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT