WNBA FINALS: STORM VS. ACES
October 4, 2020
Emma Cannon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Seattle Storm 104, Las Vegas Aces 91
Q. Emma, looks like you tied a career high with 17 points today.  Big game for you.  I know not the result you wanted for the team, but what's it like to be in this moment and have a game like that in this situation for you?
EMMA CANNON:   I mean, I'm really just trying to do whatever it takes for my team to get a W.  It really doesn't matter about points or stats or anything of that sort.  I'm just going out there and doing what I can in order to put my team in a better situation to get a win.
Q. You had impressive bench production in the regular season, your team did, but that production has been down in the playoffs, especially with Dearica out.  With your performance today, what else does your team need to do and get from the bench?
EMMA CANNON:   We just have to bring intensity.  With D being out, that was a blow for our whole entire team, but everybody just needs to pick it up a little bit more, so everybody that does come in from the bench just has to bring energy, has to be effective on defense and offense and just continue to play together.
Q. You're a new addition to this team this year.  What did Bill tell you your role would be, especially now with Hamby out?
EMMA CANNON:   To bring energy, to play defense, to get in there and set good screens and rebound, to be able to be effective when I do have the ball, make good decisions.  You know, just bring energy on both sides of the court.
Q. I would love to ask you a little bit about the team not getting to the line as they're accustomed to throughout the season.  Obviously that is something that -- part of it at least is not in your control as to what gets called and what does not, but does a game like this where maybe it's a little bit dry on the side of the whistles in your favor, does that impact how the team will move forward and how they're aggressive in the paint?
EMMA CANNON:   We've just got to continue to be aggressive.  I don't want to say too much about the officials and what they do and what they don't, so with that being said, as professional athletes we've just got to continue to be aggressive, period, and eventually those calls will come.  Eventually we will get to the line.  You know, it is what it is.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT