OKLAHOMA CITY THUNDER MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 24, 2018
Terrance Ferguson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What would you say is the biggest change do you think is going to be in your game from your rookie year?  
TERRANCE FERGUSON: Definitely my body, and that's how I spent my summer, just focusing on my body each and every day, and then also my decision making, making plays for myself, making plays for others, which I worked all summer on with Darko.   
 Q.  The Summer League was kind of an uncomfortable experience for you, you were playing in a role that was a little bit different.  Was that almost a learning experience for you?  Were you able to glean certain aspects from your experience?  It obviously wasn't comfortable, but were you able to take certain things and say, okay, I can take this into this next season in my more natural role?  
TERRANCE FERGUSON: Most definitely.  Like you said, it was definitely uncomfortable, and at times I was like, I don't want to do this, but I thought about it, and I felt like to be victorious, you've always got to fail.  People who fail a lot always come out on top, so I took that as a learning experience and I kept working, and I'm doing the same thing now, but I feel way more comfortable at it.   
 Q.  Just on a sort of personal side, how do you feel different?  You were a 19-year-old rookie this time last year.  Now you've got a full season behind you and some other young guys are now on the team.  On a personal level, how much more comfortable and confident do you feel?  
TERRANCE FERGUSON: You know, once you get a year under your belt, you always feel more comfortable.  Last year was definitely new to me, obviously playing my first year, but coming into this year, 20 years old, having a year under my belt, definitely feel more confident, more focused, changing my body up, changing my eating habits up, and I've got a little girl on the way, so that changing up my whole focus, as well.   
 Q.  Looking ahead to your game in Tulsa in a few weeks, being a Tulsa native, what's the excitement level there, and how has your fan base growing being from the area?  
TERRANCE FERGUSON: I'm always excited to go back home to Tulsa.  I was there not too long ago visiting the Gathering Place, and about that Tulsa trip, I'm going to need like 10 tickets.  I'm going to need like 10 -- probably 20.  I'm going to need a lot of tickets for that Tulsa trip.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT