OKLAHOMA CITY THUNDER MEDIA CONFERENCE
April 28, 2018
Terrance Ferguson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TERRANCE FERGUSON: I don't have to stand up.  I've got a chair.   
 Q.  You are so easily impressed?  
TERRANCE FERGUSON: I have a chair.  I don't have to stand up here.   
 Q.  It's worth the weight, right?  See.  
TERRANCE FERGUSON: You're the best, you're the best, you're the best.  I don't have a water or anything though.  No, no.   
 Q.  Hold on, hold on.  Can you get him a Gatorade, please?  
TERRANCE FERGUSON: I mean, it would be a really good thing if I had like a water right here next to me (laughing).  Or a Gatorade.   
 Q.  Can you do a reenactment of the commercial?  Yes, the commercial.  And look what else we have for you.  Oh, my God.  We had pizza, we ate it.  If you had been here earlier, you'd have had pizza?  
TERRANCE FERGUSON: Whoa.  Whoa (laughing).   
 Q.  You've got that line down?  
TERRANCE FERGUSON: Whoa.  I mean, it's pretty simple (laughing).  It didn't take much work.  Real smooth whoa, that's it.   
 Q.  That's also why you always say that, right?  
TERRANCE FERGUSON: Oh, yeah, why you always say that?  Simple.  I got it.   
 Q.  How often do people say those things to you?  
TERRANCE FERGUSON: Probably every day.  I get a snapshot of the same line every day.  I'm like, okay, guys, I've seen it.  All right.  That's enough.  That's enough (laughing).   
 Q.  What was the playoff experience like for you just being in that environment for the first time and feeling those moments on the bench there?  
TERRANCE FERGUSON: Just the atmosphere itself was crazy.  I mean, at some point my heart was just beating so hard, I think the game came back from 25.  I've never seen anything like that before.  I just was on the bench like sweating like I was playing.  I was sweating so hard, my heart was beating, it was going crazy, but I just enjoyed all of it.  It was amazing.   
 Q.  How do you look at this off-season in terms of what you want to get accomplished?  
TERRANCE FERGUSON: I just want to come back a totally different player.  Just working on my skill set, be more confident going into next year.  I've got a whole plan set out.  So I'm ready for it.   
 Q.  What does that plan entail?  Is there anything in particular you want to concentrate on?  
TERRANCE FERGUSON: I know Darko's probably right now at home writing up a couple stuff with a big old smile on his face, just ready for it to happen.   
 Q.  What was the biggest challenge for you this year?  
TERRANCE FERGUSON: The biggest challenge?  It was probably at the beginning of the season, just coming in, not playing a lot, and then having to go right into starting.  But, like I said, I was always ready at all times, staying focused throughout the season.  Came in every day with the same work ethic, and I think once my name was called for a starting job, I came in ready.   
 Q.  Do you feel like that resonated with some of your teammates when you got Hall of Fame guys that are talking about you after practices and shootarounds and just how they kind of appreciate what you brought?  
TERRANCE FERGUSON: Oh, yeah, definitely.  They gave me confidence every time I touched the floor.  Just the words they said to me, just encouraging words.  Every time I touch the floor, I'm always focused, always ready for the next play.  Just ready to play.   
 Q.  What was your favorite part about this season?  
TERRANCE FERGUSON: Favorite part about this season.   
 Q.  Or favorite moment?  
TERRANCE FERGUSON: It has to be the L.A. moment, my first start.  It had to be that.  Darko told me before the game, he actually told me I was going to have a big game.  I didn't really believe him.  I said I'll play my hardest, and whatever happens, happens, and that happened.  It definitely surprised me, but I knew I had it in me, and it came out and the world saw it, so it was good.   
 Q.  You got a lot of open looks, you shot a lot of threes.  You're a great athlete.  Do you want to work on getting your athleticism in the game a little more?  
TERRANCE FERGUSON: That's what me and Darko are going to work on in the off-season.  Doing more with the dribble, just expanding my game.  I had two great point guards to send me the ball, find open shots for me.  So I definitely thank them for that.  But this off-season I would definitely make my own shot.   
 Q.  Describe your life as a rookie, along with veteran players, as well as second-year players?  How was that like, and the overall life experience of a rookie?  
TERRANCE FERGUSON: I think I had the best rookie season.  I mean, I'm playing with three future Hall of Famers.  We have great players, Nick Collison, we have Steve, they were always in my ear each and every day just telling me what to do, giving me confidence.  Just learning the game from them, from Andre, just a lot of people around to help me with my game, so pretty successful.   
 Q.  Are you excited to not be the rookie anymore?  
TERRANCE FERGUSON: I mean, what rookie isn't excited to not be the rookie anymore (laughing)?  I don't have to do any rookie duties, go get food.  So, definitely.  I'm definitely excited not to be the rookie anymore.   
 Q.  You know you might still be the youngest guy on the team?  
TERRANCE FERGUSON: You don't have to tell me that.  I get it already, all right, I get it.   
 Q.  Do we see any future Gatorade commercials?  
TERRANCE FERGUSON: Future Gatorade?  Hey, real smooth (laughing).  Thank you, guys.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT