FEDCUP SEMIFINALS: RUSSIA v USA
July 15, 2007
Anna Chakvetadze
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  Anna, you showed a lot of determination coming back from 5-2 in the second set.  Can you talk about the comeback. 
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE:  Yeah, I started to play my tennis a little bit late, when score was -- when I was down a set and 2-5.  Against top player, if you're not playing from the beginning, if you're not showing your best tennis from the beginning, it's really tough to play. 
 Of course, it was very important game when it was 5-4 in the second and I had a breakpoint.  I didn't use it.  Of course, Venus, she has so many confident.  You know, she played better today than me.  That's it. 

 Q.  Your serve really let you down today.  Is this something new just this weekend or is this something you've been having trouble with? 
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE:  You know, yesterday I was serving pretty well, and today I didn't serve -- I serve so many double-faults.  I didn't felt confident during my service game.  It started from the second game in the first set. 
 I don't know what happened.  You know, I just didn't feel it today.  I don't know. 

 Q.  Were you having much trouble with Venus' first serves? 
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE:  Oh, she's a great server, definitely.  Yeah, she served pretty well.  Of course, I did have trouble.  I lost first set 6-1 (laughter). 

 Q.  You had a couple of breakpoints in the first game of the match.  Do you feel it could have been different if you were able to convert? 
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE:  Yeah, I think it could be different.  But still, if you're not playing good on your serve, you know, against such a great server like Venus, it's very tough to win. 

 Q.  Did you face anybody who hits as powerfully, as hard, as Venus? 
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE:  Well, Serena (laughter). 
 No, Maria, as well.  They all are tall girls, you know, and they serve pretty well, very hard, good.  They practice in America.  Maybe I should practice a little in America and I will serve better (laughter). 

 Q.  It appeared at some points in the match you were playing yourself as much as Venus.  How hard was it to try to keep your emotions level throughout the match? 
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE:  Well, I was upset.  I was upset that I losing so easy first set, you know.  I didn't even -- I lose all important balls in the first set.  I didn't serve well.  Of course, I was upset that, you know, I felt that I could play better, but I just didn't show it.  I don't know. 
 But, as I said, I started to play better too late.  Against top player, you know, it's too late. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT