FEDCUP SEMIFINALS: RUSSIA v USA
July 14, 2007
Anna Chakvetadze
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  With only having played a couple of Fed Cup matches, you seemed pretty relaxed out there today.  Are you enjoying playing for your country?   
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE:  Just today I told to myself, you know, I will stay concentrate, confident, and nothing going to happen, you know.  I just play for fun.   
 I mean, there is pressure always when you play for your country, but today I told myself that, you know, if you will play nervous and if you will have that pressure, it will be really difficult.   
  
  Q.  This is the first time you played on hard courts since early April in Miami.  Do you attribute that to the surface at all or do you see yourself as an all-court player; surfaces are sort irrelevant?   
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE:  I prefer hard court and grass court.  I didn't play that well at Wimbledon.  Hopefully I will play better at the US Open.   
  
  Q.  Up next for you tomorrow is Venus Williams.  She presents a very big challenge.  What are you going to have to do to stay in the match against her?   
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE:  Well, you know, I played against her just once.  It was two years ago on clay court.  I mean, she just won a Grand Slam.  Of course, she's in a great shape.  So it will be, as you say, a good challenge for me before single tournaments.   
 I will try to do my best and we'll see how it goes.  She's a hard-hitter, great serve, good strokes.  I mean, I'll just try to play and have fun and we'll see how it goes.   
  
  Q.  You spoke of being a little nervous at the beginning of the match.  Did getting a couple breaks right away help you relax a little bit?   
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE:  I wasn't nervous.  I was a little bit, you know, nervous when it was 5-2, when I lost that game.  Well, it wasn't the end.  I just thought to myself that I have to be focused until the end, until the last point is over.   
 But in the beginning, I felt pretty confident.   
  
  Q.  Among your career goals, where does winning a Fed Cup rank?   
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE:  Well, it's very important, you know.  But this is little bit different because, as I said, you play for your country and it's team matches.   
 Of course I would like to get a trophy for my country and to win in the semifinal or in the final.  That's important matches.  It's really big for me.   
  
  Q.  You mentioned a couple times how nice it is to be able to play for your country.  How nice was it to see some Russian flags flying in the crowd?   
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE:  You know, I'm actually surprised that it's so many Russian people, and they came to support us.  It helps a lot, you know, because the crowd, when you play not at home, especially Fed Cup matches, when crowd helps you, it's very important.   
  
  Q.  Did you take confidence out of the fact that your captain selected you as the top-nominated singles player for your country or did that not matter to you?   
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE:  Well, you know, I'm not playing doubles that good, that much.  Yeah, and Shamil, he knows what to do.  He has so many experience.  He won so many matches with men's, with women.  We have so many trophies.  He feel who going to play, he feels the shape of the player.  He knows what to do.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT