SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 29, 2007
Anna Chakvetadze
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  What was your strategy going into the match?   
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE:  When you play the way I played today, you know, it's not even the strategy to think if you can't hit more than three balls over the net.  It's your problem, so, yeah.   
  
  Q.  Why didn't you play that well today?   
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE:  Well, I think Justine played pretty solid today, but I don't know, I just felt very tired.  I felt I couldn't run.  You know, something wrong happened, and actually, I'm still pleased with the result because I had no confidence when I came here, after I played one of my worst matches this year, and I didn't have confidence at all.   
 And the goal for me was pass one round.  And when I passed it I just felt a little bit better.  Then second round, Golovin, also pretty easy, I was surprised.   
 Yeah, it's still a good result, but I'm just feeling that I'm not in a good shape right now.   
  
  Q.  It's strange, because you are coming into Top 10 and you turned around?   
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE:  Yeah, I know, that's strange.  If I would feel good then maybe I would be Top 5.  But no, the thing is that of course I got lucky with the draw.  It was very tough match for me against Na Li, she just didn't use her opportunities, that why I won.  It was very lucky, so yeah, I'm happy it was a semifinal.   
 But today in the match, Justine, she was controlling all games.  She just start to miss a little bit in the end of the second set, so I won a few more games.   
  
  Q.  You're not giving yourself much credit?   
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE:  No, not really, but I am telling the truth.   
  
  Q.  You always tell the truth?   
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE:  Well, I'm trying to.   
  
  Q.  Can you explain how you improved so much in one year?   
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE:  Well, I just got more confidence, you know, against top players.  I got confidence after I won my first tournament in China.  And then the next week I won a home tournament in Kremlin Cup in Moscow.  Yeah, I beat like three Top 10 players, and after that I just felt that I can play better and better.   
  
  Q.  You have no coach?   
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE:  No, my dad is with me here, and my hitting partner.   
  
  Q.  Why?  Don't you want to have a coach?   
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE:  I actually was practicing before Indian Wells with Robert Lansdorp in L.A., and I liked it a lot.  But he can't travel, so probably I'll go to see him later when I go play US Open series.   
  
  Q.  Did he teach something special to you?   
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE:  Well, I don't know, maybe.  Something special?  He had great players; he was coaching Sharapova, Myskina, and Sampras, I don't know.  He doesn't like to compare.  I liked it, you know, he's very nice guy, and we practice good together.   
  
  Q.  Did you feel flat from the very beginning of the match?  Like could you see that I'm just not feeling like I'm going to have my rhythm today?   
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE:  Yes, as I said, I don't know why I felt tired.  I didn't run, and I was not in the match today.  Yeah, but you know, sometimes this happens and I look forward to playing on clay courts.   
  
  Q.  Did you feel that in the warm-up before the match?   
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE:  I actually felt like today, yeah, I felt it actually yesterday that I'm a little bit tired.  I was a little bit dizzy in the evening, but I felt maybe I would get through that, but no.   
  
  Q.  What do you expect for the next tournament?   
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE:  Well, I'm going back home and I'm going --   
  
  Q.  In Russia?   
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE:  In Russia, yes, in Moscow.  I'm going to play Fed Cup and practice on clay, outdoors.  Then I play Warsaw Berlin, Rome, week off and then French Open.  We'll see how it goes.   
  
  Q.  Just a word about Justine.  She seems to be much less powerful than a lot of other players, and she's No. 1.  What has she got that the others maybe don't have?   
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE:  Well, she plays -- she sees the ball very good, you know.  She likes when someone hit flat against her.  Well, all girls mostly playing like that, that's how I played today as well, I don't know why.  It's not my style of the game.   
 Well, yeah, she's a great champion.  I don't know.  They look a little bit similar with -- no, she hit actually flatter than Mauresmo does.  But they both have one-hand backhand and serve pretty good, so yeah.   
 They don't play the same tennis as others play.  Because usually girls play very flat, and powerful, and Justine, she can mix her game.  That's why she's No. 1.   
  
  Q.  Do you think you can come in the Top 5 this year?   
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE:  Well, hopefully.  That's my goal, yeah.  I'll try to do my best this year.  Hopefully I will play better.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT