ROGERS CUP PRESENTED BY NATIONAL BANK
July 28, 2008
Anna Chakvetadze
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. A general question about the women's game. There are four women in contention for the top spot in the rankings right now. Things are in flux. Everybody is battling it out. Seems to me this particular Rogers Cup, generally a big deal leading up to the US Open, is a big battle because everybody wants to take over the No. 1 spot. Is that how you feel, too?  
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE: I know ranking can change every week. Of course, everyone want to be No. 1, all the top players. But, unfortunately, as you said, there are a lot of players, you know, who can be No. 1 after Henin retired.   
 Yeah, just who will took the opportunity? But it also depends, you know, to be No. 1 for a week or to be No. 1 like Henin was is a different thing.   
  
  Q. It seems there aren't women at the top of the game right now like Federer and Nadal are at the top of the men's pack. The women seem more evenly matched. The games seem similar and there aren't women pulling away from the pack. Why do you think that is?  
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE: I don't think game is similar, all woman game is similar. I mean, sometimes it happen, you know. We don't really have someone who plays another level right now on the top 10, you know. Everyone are beatable and everyone can have up and downs this year.   
 Nobody really play consistent. Whoever will play consistent may be No. 1 for a longer time.   
  
  Q. Why do you think it's been so difficult for anybody to grab that No. 1 ranking? Do you have aspirations to do that? What do you think you would have to do to get there?   
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE: Well, for me, for myself, I can say that I just trying to find my best tennis. You know, I'm just trying to play more consistent during the matches because I have a lot of up and downs during the matches, losing a lot of three-set matches where I feel like I'm playing a bit against myself, have a lot of unforced errors.   
 The goal for me is just to play consistent during all match. Well, you know, it's tough to be No. 1. Maybe it's easy to get there, you know, for a week. But then to be there, like I said, Henin was, it's really tough.   
  
  Q. Were you aware on Saturday Jankovic, if she had won that match against Safina, she would have been No. 1?  
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE: I didn't know that.   
  
  Q. That's happened quite a few times, French Open in particular. It seems like every time someone gets close, they don't make it.   
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE: Well, it will happen. I mean, it will always happen, you know. A new generation is always coming. You can't be No. 1 for 10 years, you know. It always will change. I just depends, as I said, who will take the opportunity and who will be more confident in themself.   
  
  Q. Is that what it is, confidence ultimately?  
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE: Yeah. Well, confidence is not something which you can get, you know, from the air. You just have to win matches. You have to win tournaments. Maybe you're confident in yourself but you just can't be there.   
  
  Q. What about hard courts for you? Are you looking to change your game at all from the way you played on grass?  
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE: Yes, it's completely different, hard court. I love it. I think it suits my game. Here I think it was my first practice day today, and I think courts are not that quick, not that fast. Bounce is a bit slower. So that's actually good for me. And I hope I'll take my opportunity this week.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT