WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2008
Anna Chakvetadze
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  A. CHAKVETADZE/E. Rodina  
6-4, 6-3  
   
  Q. How do you feel like you played?   
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE: Well, I feel pretty good. You know, I finally passed third round in Wimbledon, so it feels great, and I'm happy to be in the second week.  
  
  Q. Level-wise just talk about how you felt like you played today?  
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE: Well, I think I played much, much better than my previous rounds, you know, especially my first match was horrible.   
 And then match by match, you know, I feel better.   
  
  Q. You're okay that you got off to the fast start in the second set and then she came back, but at least you closed it out there at the end.   
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE: Yeah, I think it was okay for me. Because, you know, two points on her serve, I won that game pretty quickly. And then 5-Love up I lost concentration a little bit, but still was able to finish the match in two sets, and I'm really happy with my result.   
 You know, I had some tough time this year, and I think to be -- to play the fourth round, it's a good result already.  
  
  Q. You talked about some of the tough times you've had this year, and we all know the terrible ordeal that you went through. How long did it take you to really push that aside psychologically?   
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE: Well, I think, you know what, psychologically I was okay, you know, already at the Australian Open. I was ready to play. But the thing is that I didn't really have preparation because I had a reinjury.   
 Unfortunately I didn't have a preparation for the season, so probably that's why it's very tough, especially physically when you don't have a preparation, like your fitness work, your physical work before the season starts. It's really tough to play.   
  
  Q. So you're going to play Vaidisova who you've played twice. It's been two years, which probably seems like a long time to you.   
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE: Yeah, I think it's one of her best surfaces, the grass court. It will be a very tough match for me. You know, she serves quite well, and on return she's just hitting. She's just attacking all the time.   
 It will be a tough match, but I will try to play my best. I think it's already not a bad result that I made the fourth round already.  
  
  Q. As you say, you've psychologically recovered from it, but can you go around and look at a tournament the way you once did? Do you feel the same security you once had? Are there any problems at all left over from that incident, or none at all?   
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE: There's no problem. Completely I feel okay. Yeah, nothing bother me. I feel fine.  
  
  Q. Mentally, though, with some of the other things you've been going through this year with the coaching and the loss of confidence, you go into a match against Vaidisova who's also been struggling up until this tournament, do you feel like you can go out there and really play your game? Do you feel like you're in that good mental space again?  
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE: Well, yeah, I feel I'm ready. I had three straight wins, you know. Of course the level of the players is not the same as Nicole. As I said, I will try to play my best to -- I will try to stay tough on court.   
 It will be very important to hold my serve. I will have two days off, and that's the good thing.   
  
  Q. You have a style that we don't see that often anymore among the women, in that you're sort of flowing around the court a little bit more. Do you wish women's tennis was a little bit more like that overall instead of bashing the ball?  
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE: Well, I think it's more because of physical conditions, you know. Because if you can banging the ball, why not do that?   
  
  Q. So you would bash it if you could?  
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE: Yeah (laughter).  
  
  Q. Did you find today that you were trusting your shots when the big points were there?  
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE: Yeah, I felt actually the game was pretty on control, you know. But sometimes she got pretty lucky, you know, especially a few serves on the line, a few net balls.   
 But I was fighting till the end, I was playing till the end, and that's why I won.  
  
  Q. So this is the best you've felt since when?  
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE: It's tough to say, because every day is different. All the players are different. So I think this is probably one of my best matches on grass I can say.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT