INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA (WOMEN)
May 17, 2008
Anna Chakvetadze
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  A. CORNET/A. Chakvetadze
3-6, 6-4, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

 Q. How come you think the match ended the way it did?
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE: Well, I just made too much unforced errors, and this kind of things happen with me this season actually. I can't win in two sets. I always have three-set matches.
 And, well, it's tough when you have all the chances, all the opportunities in your hands and then you're losing them. It's very tough to come back in the third set. Especially I played three matches here and all three was in three sets, and she didn't play yesterday so she had some day off.
 Yeah, it was tough. I feel very tired, but I hope I will recover. And maybe it was a good preparation for French Open.

 Q. You had some problems with your shoulder yesterday. You're okay now?
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE: Well, it's still bothering me, but not that much. I mean, I still could play, and I even didn't call trainer during the match.
 Yeah, I think it's just because of too many matches. As I said, three sets each match. So, yeah, but now I will have a bit rest and hopefully I will recover.

 Q. We didn't have the first semis because Maria withdraw. Did you have any thoughts maybe with your physics maybe not to play today?
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE: Well, you know, I always like to play until the end, even if something really bother me a lot. So I anyway go on court and try to play, so that's what I did today.
 Yeah, I was a bit surprising, because I was already here and was already in my match clothes, and then they told me that I'm playing at 4:00. I had to go back to the hotel and like just watch TV and rest.
 Well, anyway I was ready to play at 1:00.

 Q. Are you satisfied that you reached semis this tournament?
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE: Well, of course I'm not satisfied until I win the tournament. Of course I was favorite today. I just was not prepared maybe.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT