INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA (WOMEN)
May 16, 2008
Anna Chakvetadze
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  A. CHAKVETADZE/T. Pironkova
6-2, 3-6, 6-1

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. What do you think about your next opponent, Alize? Serena withdraw, and she got to the semis without any problems. Had you seen her game against Svetlana? If not, maybe do you have any plans how to play her? 
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE: No, I didn't see her match against Svetlana because I was playing at that time. But, well, I think she is a good junior. Her best surface is definitely clay, because all her best results are on clay. 
 Well, bad luck for Serena. I feel bad for her that she retired. Of course, nobody expected to be Cornet in semifinals, so it's a bit unpredictable. 
 So, well, I have to motivate myself and stay motivate and positive. This year I had a couple good draws but I didn't use it and take my opportunities. 
 So I have to stay concentrate and, you know, and just, you know, believe in myself. 

 Q. (From Italian) What happened in the first part of the second set? 
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE: No, I was completely out of there. It was very tough match because it was up and down. It felt like I'm playing against myself a bit. 
 Well, second set I think I got cold when she was having medical timeout. I don't know, I had small injury with my shoulder. I saw the trainer and she said it's not that serious, so I hope I will recover for tomorrow and everything -- nothing will be bothering me. 

 Q. What do you think was the problem with Ivanovic? Tsvetana showed the same game today. How do you think why she defeated her?
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE: Well, because she play more consistent. And sometimes, you know, against players like Ivanovic they hit every ball so hard. Sometimes, you know, there are days when you just not playing your best. 
 And Pironkova, she play consistent and she doesn't make free mistakes and she's running very good. She's a tough opponent, especially on clay. Here balls are really heavy, so it's tough one.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT