U.S. WOMEN'S MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 18, 2019
Meghan Stasi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Did you feel like you were on this morning against Katy?
MEGHAN STASI: I did feel like I played well this morning. I feel like I've played pretty well all week. Ina got off to an incredible start. She had what -- three or four birdies on the front nine, and I did not. I was just trying to hang in there and I was trying to make par putts just to halve 6 and 7. She hit the ball just solid, which is nice out there. You have to, the wind is swirling, and it's mentally and physically driving range. She's just playing solid. I struggled a bit in the front.
Q. This can be a birdie golf course, but you also can't force the issue, right?
MEGHAN STASI: Yeah, I had got in the rough a couple times, and I'm like, it's going to come out a little heavy and next thing, it flies. So I miss clubbed a couple times today. Of course, I'm not happy for losing but she played well and just wish her the best for tomorrow.
Q. Did you take away you performed well this morning?
MEGHAN STASI: Yeah, I did. I felt good going into this afternoon. Had a good warmup, nice lunch.
Q. Hit the flagstick on 9 this morning?
MEGHAN STASI: Yeah, 9's been my nemesis. Birdied once and then I did that goofy thing today. I gave away a lot of shots this afternoon. I gave away a ton. She played solid, and I handed her a couple, too.
Q. Your record in this championship is like 53 and 10. What does this championship mean to you? Is this the biggest thing you play in every year?
MEGHAN STASI: It is. People always ask how many championships I've played in and you always hear, but I played in my 40th when I was 40 and this is my 41st and I'm 41.
So next year, I'll play, hopefully, fingers crossed with the fourball -- actually that will be before I'm 42. It's fun to have that. Obviously it's the best championship. I've always tried to qualify for the am and The Open, but this is the one that, you know, it's just the most solid and I absolutely love the camaraderie, the people. The golf courses are great. It's something I look forward to every year.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT