U.S. WOMEN'S MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 17, 2019
Meghan Stasi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  An amazing up-and-down for par on the 19th hole to keep yourself alive, after the smashing and banging and thrashing around behind you?  
MEGHAN STASI: Yeah, besides the first hole, I guess, I didn't have a great drive on 1 earlier, but that's really the only bad drive that I had, and then when that came, I was like, oh, man, this is not good, so how do I figure out how to make par. So that's what I did, and you know, she was playing great all day. It was a great match.   
 Q.  You almost made birdie on hole 20. That looked like it was going in?  
MEGHAN STASI: Yeah, I thought I had that, too. I had a few, you know, on 15 -- sorry, 16, 17, she made a bomb. I thought I made mine. But you know, it was just a great match. It was -- anyone who would have won, it would have been great.   
 Q.  You have to dodge some bullets, right, a little bit?  
MEGHAN STASI: Yeah, obviously I'm glad I came out on top. You know, if you're going to lose, you want to lose to birdies and she made a few, so it was a fun match.   
 Q.  What about just the day as a whole. The morning, you took care of business, obviously?  
MEGHAN STASI: Feel good. Feel great out there. Golf course is incredible. Probably a little better condition in the morning. A few less footprints, especially going out back on 19. In the sun with the shade, it's really hard to see the putts.   
 Q.  And the wind came up a lot?  
MEGHAN STASI: Yeah, that got me on 18. I was a little mad at myself because I've been hitting, you know, 7-iron from that yardage the entire couple days, and it was dead uphill, dead into the wind, so I grabbed the 6, and then the wind died. And I was all up -- all walking up the hill, I knew I should have hit the 7. But you don't know if the wind is going to lay down.   
 Q.  And it's really hard here, too. There's all these other matches, all the commotion going on around you. You just have to try to take care of your own business, right?  
MEGHAN STASI: Exactly. Talk about the wind. You could hear it from, I don't know how far away, but you know what's coming. So if you don't just back away from your ball, I mean --   
 Q.  It arrives?  
MEGHAN STASI: It does. It's pretty amazing. It was a fun day.   
I have no idea what time, who I'm playing tomorrow. We'll just have to get up and have another good dinner and do the same. Keep the same routine. Cooking at the house.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT