U.S. WOMEN'S MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 26, 2018
Meghan Stasi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. It was a struggle today, right?
MEGHAN STASI: You know, I didn't feel like I struggled, but the pace of the greens on the front nine absolutely killed me.  I think I had three three-putts and I missed a three-footer on 6 for birdie.  So I would have been 1-down on 6 if I would have made that.
So, you know, I mean, she just played solid.  She didn't make any mistakes.  So, yeah, unfortunately, I just got off to a bad start putting.  Other than that, it was fine.  I hit a couple shots here and there that weren't pretty, but what are you going to do.
Q. When you get off to a bad start like that, the doubt kind of creeps in, right?  You have doubt on every putt almost, right?
MEGHAN STASI: No, I don't.
Q. You didn't?  I didn't know if that affected you.
MEGHAN STASI: If you do, then you're really going to lose bad.  But, no, I hung in there.  I had two three-putts before I got to 6.  Never even thought for a minute I would miss that putt.
Q. Yeah.
MEGHAN STASI: It was a downhill slider, but still.  Yeah, I just never give up.
Q. Yeah, no, I just meant like --
MEGHAN STASI: It's not easy.  You know, she's not going to make any mistakes, so I just kind of -- if you don't get up, and they were a little firmer a little faster today, so...
I just didn't adjust enough right off the bat.
Q. So tell me a little bit about -- Kelsey's now 11-0 in this championship, I guess, after last year's debut.  And I know you've had similar type of runs in this championship.  What can you tell me?  This is the first time you've played with her, right?
MEGHAN STASI: Yeah, I didn't know really anything about her game.  So it's just like I said, she just played solid.  So I guess that is her game, so...
Q. Yeah, yeah.
MEGHAN STASI: When you don't make any -- you hit all the fairways and hit pretty much every green, the game's a lot easier.
Q. Yes, it is.
MEGHAN STASI: And her lag putting was incredible today.
Q. Was it?  Okay.
MEGHAN STASI: So everything looked like it was going to go in.  But I had my chances.  I just, even when I got to 3-down, I still had some chances and I just didn't make them.
Q. And that puts a lot of pressure on somebody when you kind of almost are sure they're going to make pars, right?
MEGHAN STASI: Yeah, I mean, I knew I was going to have to make some birdies.  I left 8 on the edge, you know, I had some really good chances.  Left 9 was pretty good.  10 there were a couple shots yesterday and today, so I'll have to work on that.  Had a little blocked shot out to the right.  I don't know what that was, but, you know it's tough.
Q. Can you say anything else about her, just demeanor-wise playing against her?
MEGHAN STASI: Oh, yeah, she's just solid, you know.  I think she's probably just based off today a little bit like me.  You don't know if you're 3-under or 3-over, you just have that demeanor, which is nice, especially in match play.  You don't want to get too excited or too low, you know.  So I think that's great for her.
Q. Yeah.
MEGHAN STASI: So last year was her first year?
Q. Yes.
MEGHAN STASI: So my first win was my first year, and then second win was back-to-back.  So, yeah, pretty exciting.  You always want whoever beats you to win.  So I'll be pulling for her.  I don't know who won the first two, but I'm sure she hung in there.
Q. Michelle won?
MEGHAN STASI: Who did Michelle beat?
Q. Michelle beat Lauren.  So it's Michelle and Shannon in the other semifinals, yes.
MEGHAN STASI: It's tough.  You've still got two more matches.  Shannon's been in the finals a couple times.  So it will be a fun couple matches to watch.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT