U.S. WOMEN'S MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 25, 2018
Meghan Stasi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How many times do you think the two of you have squared off in this championship?
MEGHAN STASI: I don't think but maybe one other time.  Maybe.  I don't even know if we have.
Q. I'm sure we can find out, but it's been a while --
MEGHAN STASI: Yeah, I don't get to see Corey enough because she's all the way on the other coast.  But she's -- one, she's a competitor, two, she's just an awesome person.  She's a great person.  So we had a great match.  Obviously I didn't want to make it to 18, but she -- it happens, and I'm just happy I had a good shot in.  I let a few go on the last few holes, but I hung in there, stuck it out.
Q. You were only, say, 1- or 2-over par through about 15 holes, I think, right?
MEGHAN STASI: Yeah, I mean, I lipped out -- she made a great birdie on 14, I think, and I lipped that out, and the par-5, had another chance, just missed that.  Missed on 16 again, and then on 17 unfortunately just crushed it, bombed it by, three-putted.  But I knew she had it going, so I knew I had to make birdie on the last hole to hang in there.
Q. How do you feel going in now to --
MEGHAN STASI: I'm going to take it easy tonight because I don't know, whoever is going to win is going to be a tough match.  I don't know what they're doing behind me, but I know either one is going to be a very difficult match.  Obviously they've both won before, so they know what it takes.
Q. It's a gauntlet of champions here; there's the four of you in that bracket.
MEGHAN STASI: Yeah, so it's great.  It's tough, and that's the way match play is sometimes, you just never know.
Q. When eight advanced from the round of 64, you knew they were going to be -- you folks would be putting heads, but I didn't expect it to be so quickly.
MEGHAN STASI: Yeah, round of 16, round of 8, so it's tough, but what are you going to do?  You just have to go back into each match and play it as it is.
Q. We were just looking back at the historical record, and this is your 13th championship.  You've won at least one match every year, you've got four wins, three semis --
MEGHAN STASI: You know more than me.
Q. What keeps you going in this championship?  What do you think is a key to surviving matches like this?
MEGHAN STASI: It really -- we all say it, it is one shot at a time, one hole at a time, one match at a time.  It truly is.  Anything can happen tomorrow.  Who knows what the weather is going to do.  It was absolutely gorgeous today, a little hotter than I expected, but it's beautiful.  It's absolutely a great golf course.  The greens are unbelievable.  The course is in great shape.  You really just have to hit good shots, and if you're putting well, then it's anyone's game.
Q. Shannon was talking about the precision required on this golf course, that it's really not just hit the green but really within a yard of where you want to be because of the severity of the greens.
MEGHAN STASI: Yeah, that is very true.  I have a great caddie.  He's a member here, good friend.
Q. What's his name?
MEGHAN STASI: John Sternberg.  So he's a good friend of my husband's.  I pretty much try to listen to him.  Everything he says, I am all ears.  It's been really, really good to have him on the bag.  I know it's a lot to ask, 36 holes, but I think he's having fun, too.  But yeah, you have to be in the fairway off the tee, and if not, the Bermuda is just gnarly.  It's tough.
Q. I've heard gnarly at least a half dozen times this week, so it is not an exaggeration.  With past champions and your last 2012, it's been five years --
MEGHAN STASI: Yeah, it has been five years.  I don't even think about it, honestly.  It feels like just yesterday even though it was 2012.  It doesn't bother me.  I just want to play and compete, and if it happens again, that's incredible, but I've got to get through tomorrow first.  It's another long day ahead.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT