ISPS HANDA WALES OPEN
September 19, 2014
Patrick Sjoland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  PATRICK SJOLAND:   I've been driving the ball well and putting well, so it's been two good days.

Q.   That back nine was pretty special for building the score, wasn't it. 
PATRICK SJOLAND:   Yeah, it was.   I hit a few really good ones.   You saw on the last hole, which was like three feet.   So I hit a few more like that, so I hit some good iron shots on the last few holes and one chip‑in, as well.   So that helps. 

Q.   That always helps.   Where was that? 
PATRICK SJOLAND:   It was on 15 off the back.   I chipped in.   It was for birdie.   I was in the front bunker at first.   So poor bunker shot and a good chip.

Q.   I presume that means you have good control of the ball flight in what can be tricky conditions here. 
PATRICK SJOLAND:   Today I thought it was pretty tricky because it was damp in the morning and the ball didn't fly.   It was a bit tough, but it's nice to finally be able to find some fairways and giving yourself some good chances of hitting good shots into to the green.

Q.   I take it reading between the lines, it has been a bit of a struggle and a look at the cards for this season, and it's not pretty, is it. 
PATRICK SJOLAND:   It's not very pretty at all, I must say.   Sometimes it felt really good, and sometimes you don't find it at all.   For some reason, it's been very much up‑and‑down this year.   Been playing all right a few days, and then when you make the cut, you play bad on one day of the weekend and that's not good enough out here. 

Q.   Usually frustrating, isn't it, because you spent a little while away from The European Tour, got your card back, presumably with so much optimism and hasn't quite worked out that way?
PATRICK SJOLAND:   I don't know why.   It felt like I've been playing pretty good at stages, but not having been able to get anything out of the game.   But this week so far has been good, so hopefully we'll keep up for the weekend. 

Q.   And you're a positive fellow and you know that there's other opportunities to come. 
PATRICK SJOLAND:   Oh, yes, 36 more here.   We'll see.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT