WGC ANDERSEN CONSULTING MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 24, 1999
Patrick Sjoland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PATRICK SJOLAND:  Definitely.  I played really good today.  I only missed one fairway.  That was on the second the hole I lost.  After that, I played really steadily and Jim had a pretty tough day on the greens.  But I played really solid and it is a great victory for me to beat Jim today.

PATRICK SJOLAND:  I think it might have been on the 9th green, actually.  I mean, we both hit our second shots to within like 30 yards; so, from the pin and we both played really poor chip shots.  Jim had a great putt that it is unbelievable how it could miss, and he putted from about 15 feet.  And I had a similar putt which I holed straight after; so I mean, if his putt would have gone in, I would only have been 1-up after 9.  Instead I was 3-up.

PATRICK SJOLAND:  Oh, definitely.  As a junior kid you always go out there and play Match Play with your buddies and enjoy it and you are putting some money there and it is great fun to play Match Play.


Q.  Will you just run through your birdies?

PATRICK SJOLAND:  I hit a 6-iron to about five feet on the third and birdied that one.  Then I -- Jim bogeyed 6 and 7, I think. , yeah, then I birdied 9.  And birdied 12.  That was it.  Then he bogeyed 15.


Q.  What did he do there?

PATRICK SJOLAND:  He bogeyed that one.


Q.  How?

PATRICK SJOLAND:  He hit his tee shot into the rough. Hit his second shot over the green and chipped it like seven feet by and missed the putt.

PATRICK SJOLAND:  Yeah, it was January 1992 I had a really bad car accident, and I was very close to losing my life there and spent about a month in the hospital and I was on a respirator for one week and I mean, I just started up, I think like five months after the accident to play golf again.  It was in Sweden.


Q.  Were you driving?

PATRICK SJOLAND:  Yes.


Q.  What happened?

PATRICK SJOLAND:  It was just icy roads and the car began to spin; so -- it was really nasty.

PATRICK SJOLAND:  Yeah, it is true.


Q.  You were unconscious?

PATRICK SJOLAND:  I don't know.  Must have been like five or ten minutes, then I woke up with my head like about a foot beside the road, and I was lying on grass and like this behind me was like stones and everything (indicating two inches).  It was like somebody just put me down there.


Q.  When did you play golf?

PATRICK SJOLAND:  Took about four or five months after that.


Q.  Were you alone in the car?

PATRICK SJOLAND:  No.  I had my sister and friend of hers as well.  We were driving up to the golf club to practice indoors, and we didn't get it that far; so, we had to go to the hospital instead.


Q.  How was everybody else?

PATRICK SJOLAND:  They were doing okay.  I mean, I was the only one who didn't wear a seatbelt.  I always do that now.


Q.  Talk about Jim's attitude today.  Obviously he was the favorite?

PATRICK SJOLAND:  He won the second, but I got it straight back at 3.  And, I mean, it made a couple of bogeys on 6 and 7, but his temperament was still pretty good.  I didn't see him -- I mean, he wasn't angry with himself or anything like that.  He was still in a pretty good mood, I think, at least that is what it looked like.


Q.  What did it for you today?

PATRICK SJOLAND:  I think it was my driving.  I put the  ball in the middle of the fairway all the time, and after I won the 3rd hole, I hit all the fairways and Jim missed a few.  I think that was the key to put myself in good position to hit a good shot into the green.


Q.  Did you come from Europe here last week?

PATRICK SJOLAND:  Yeah, I came in Sunday evening.

PATRICK SJOLAND:  Yeah, I shot 65 the last day there and that gave me good boost of confidence, and I have been struggling with my putting for like three or four tournaments for this year, and finally got it going last week in the last round; so, this was great.


Q.  Do you sense the momentum that people talk about in Match Play working today, things carrying over from one hole to another?

PATRICK SJOLAND:  Yeah, I think you need -- I think it is very important if you are first up on the tee to really hit the fairway and put as much pressure as you can on the -- on the guy that is next to hit and really to play one hole at a time and not play the golf course; play the guy you are playing with.


Q.  How surprised are you to come to the United States and beat one of the Americans' best players pretty handily?

PATRICK SJOLAND:  It is a great feeling.  It is only my third visit to the States for tournaments; so, it is great.


Q.  Were you expecting to win going in?  Was that your frame of mind?

PATRICK SJOLAND:  Yeah, I mean, I had nothing to lose. Jim was the favorite and, so I could play relaxed and play my own game and try to hit as many good shots as possible.


Q.  Do you plan on coming over here and playing on the TOUR?

PATRICK SJOLAND:  I hope so.  Maybe not full-time, but at least maybe like 10 or 12 events every year.  That would be great.  So hopefully I mean, I can play -- I am in into the U.S. Open and PGA.  Hopefully I can play myself into the top 50 in the world and get an invitation to The Masters as well.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT