OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 10, 2018
Jonathan Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Stanford - 48, Oregon State - 17
OREGON STATE INTERVIEW
COACH SMITH: Credit to those guys, well-coached football game.  Good players.  Pretty disappointing.  That locker room is pretty disappointed right now.  And that's where we're at.
Q. They had 400 yards total offense the first half.  Were you disappointed in the defensive effort?
COACH SMITH: I thought some of that was contested.  They did have some big plays, I think we were there contesting.  Some of that size matchup caught up to us.  Disappointed on a couple of plays, quarterback pulling the ball for the long run there.  We've got guys for him and we didn't get that executed.  You know, again, it's such a thing of momentum.  We got some opportunity.  End of the half we get the kick to get within a couple of scores.  And then have a long drive to start the half, don't finish it.  They turn around and score and so, yeah, we didn't make any plays to get us in the game in the second half.
Q. Did you feel like the effort was there throughout the game?
COACH SMITH: Defensively I felt really good about the effort in the second half.  It's tough; you have a rough first half like that, I do think we got some stops in the second half.  I still go back, score 17 points in this league, you'll have a tough time winning.
Q. Parkinson, what do you think of the tight end?
COACH SMITH: They've got some confidence in throwing the ball up to him.  He can make some plays.  Good-sized kid, great hands tracking the ball.  We knew that coming in, they've got multiple players that can make plays like that we didn't defend it well enough.
Q. You've been getting some momentum last few weeks.  And this one seemed like it was a bit of a setback.  Was there anything you can pinpoint as to why just it wasn't there?
COACH SMITH: I think it does.  I know it's a lot of pressure on our offense.  But when you're not scoring like you'd like to, you know our team is a little bit of momentum and when we're scoring points we get into a better groove and didn't get it tonight.
Q. You had Jake Luton in almost to the end.  What was your thinking there?
COACH SMITH: I wanted to get a little something going.  They possessed the ball enough.  It's not like we had a bunch of snaps.  Felt like overall the pass game could have been a lot better and just felt like keeping him out there.
Q. Did Stanford surprise you at all with anything?
COACH SMITH: I don't think so.  I really don't.  They play hard.  They're well-coached.  They're sound.  So that was not surprising.
Q. Were you surprised that -- Love's had a rough year (inaudible)?
COACH SMITH: Had some good carries.  He's a good player.  He's a tough player.  You can see it out there.  He likes to get out there and mix it up.  I know they've thrown it more this year than they've run it.  But they still can run the football.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT