BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
August 29, 2020
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. How was it out there today?
 ADAM SCOTT:   It was good for me today.  It was the best I've played this week.  I played fairly awful the first two days, and my putter saved me.  I putted well today, also, but just kind of kept running it by the edge of the hole for most of the day, but hit a lot more fairways and many more greens, so I was feeling a little more comfortable and a bit more stress-free.
 Q. How difficult was it out there?
 ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, it is just difficult.  Yesterday I think the greens were a little harder, as Thursday.  A couple of them looked like they held a bit of water today but then others didn't, so you had to be really paying attention to the color of the green and hopefully you pitched the ball in the right area, which was hard to know whether you were right or not.  Generally keeping it under the hole is very difficult, so then you're left with putts that break a lot and are very fast.  You can't expect to make them all.
 Q. What is your mindset going into tomorrow?
 ADAM SCOTT:   Just play a round of golf I think is my mindset.  If I just go out and play a round -- I've played good and bad this week, and I've had basically the same score every day.  I saw today, though, that if I hit it well, there's a chance to make a few putts.  One of this leading group will shoot 4-under tomorrow, 4- or 5-under I'm sure.
 Q. Anything in particular that's triggered your success on the greens this week?
 ADAM SCOTT:   I had been generally putting really well, and Saturday in Boston I had the worst putting of recent memory, and it really annoyed me, and I've been just determined to get refocused on the putting after that kind of off day and not let slip my confidence in everything I've kind of worked on with the putting because it's a lot nicer to play when you're putting good.
 Q. Have you changed anything about the technique or is it just --
 ADAM SCOTT:   No, I didn't.  I just got back into really focusing.  Even Sunday in Boston I didn't want -- I wanted to get right back on where I was feeling it was, and I made some nice putts on Sunday in Boston, and it carried over here.  But this kind of fast green is really what I like to putt on, with slope, as well, I think it's to my advantage I feel like.
 Q. What would it mean to you to make it to East Lake?
 ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, it would be a great achievement to reach East Lake.  I've played very well this year.  I had one really great week, but I've left myself a lot of work to kind of get in there.  Better late than never.  I've got a chance to do it tomorrow, so if I can play a really good round tomorrow, I'd be very proud to be there at East Lake and kind of roll the dice and see what happens there.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT