THE 145TH OPEN
July 14, 2016
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ADAM SCOTT: Considering I felt I wasn't on point today, just one mental error wasn't bad because I really could have compounded them into some bad scores.
Q. (Inaudible).
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, no, it's just a good feeling coming to The Open knowing that I can play Open Championship golf.  You know, I feel like I've done everything but win it over the last four years, and it's just the last little hurdle we've got to get over.  It's good to know you can contend and play.  I've been doing that for four years straight.
So, again, that's what I want to do the next two days.  Put myself in with a chance come Sunday.  It will be fun.
Q. (Inaudible) you kind of forget about it.
ADAM SCOTT: No, I just take confidence from it.  Of course I analyse what I think I did wrong coming down the stretch, but I do so much right to get to that point every time and keep doing that, and then I have to just get better at closing the golf tournament out and stop making those errors.  Maybe I'm just a slow learner.
Q. (Inaudible).
ADAM SCOTT: Possibly.  It's all weather-dependent.  It doesn't look good.  It's going to be tough if it's not good.  I think even though we saw everyone shoot lights out going out early this morning, it's not easy to get it in the clubhouse, and the scores probably weren't as good as everyone might have imagined even though there are a lot of good scores, but we couldn't get a better day for it than today.
So it's going to play tough if any wind or rain weather kicks up and patience is a big part of a major championship.  But I'd like to find my ball striking a little more crisp tomorrow.
Q. (Inaudible).
ADAM SCOTT: Well, it's just a good, strong hole.  There's no hiding there.  You've just got to hit a good tee shot and from there a good second.  It's no different than any other hole, except there's a lot of trouble off the fairway.  It's not overly tight, it's just a tough hole because you don't get a visual of what you're hitting at.
So, a big element of trust comes into it and hitting the shot.  We've played lots of holes like that over the years, but for some reason that extra couple of thoughts jump in your head sometimes when you're going to swing and that upsets your rhythm or whatever, and you'll hit the errant one because you know the penalty is severe.
Q. (Inaudible).
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, look, I think I'm a pretty good bad-weather player.  Generally favours the ball strikers and I'm also a generally a low hitter of the golf ball naturally.  That to me feels like the closer you are to the ground here, the more control you have over your golf ball.  So I feel very comfortable, even if they throw the kitchen sink at us the next few days that I can navigate my way around here.
I feel like I've learned the course well over the last week that I've been here.  Everything was good today, except I just couldn't get myself to calm down off the range and down the first five or six holes.  I was just jumpy and out of sync with the rhythm.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT