THE 145TH OPEN
July 15, 2016
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
ADAM SCOTT: I mean, not close enough.  I don't know if it's a case of not hitting it close enough or not holing any putts, it may be both.  But just being very patient, but never really created the opportunities I would have liked.  Never got that long one to drop and get anything going.  And then unfortunately hit a couple two poor 3-woods on the back nine, and got me in trouble on 11 and 13 and drop shots.   
You know, if I had shot even par I wouldn't be too disappointed, but to lose a couple wasn't really the plan.   
 Q.  What about tomorrow, do you just stay patient?  
ADAM SCOTT: You just see how the weather is.  I think I need to do better than parring the front nine again.  I haven't made a birdie in the first seven holes and it seems like the whole field has made about four each, so I think I need to maybe get it in there a little closer and jam a couple of putts in.   
 Q.  Does that take its toll mentally when you go through the front nine without a birdie?  Does it go into your mind on the back nine?  
ADAM SCOTT: Not really.  It's major championship golf, and like I said, if I got in and I shot even today, yeah, I'm 8 back but that's nothing at an Open.  It's pretty spread with Henrik and Mickelson up there, and then it drops off to 5-under pretty quick.   
Like I said, the patience was good, but unfortunately the execution wasn't quite spot on again today.   
 Q.  Do you take a more aggressive (inaudible)?  
ADAM SCOTT: Potentially, given conditions are fair enough to do that.  Yeah, maybe just get it out of the middle of the green a bit more and add a few more pins.  I'm going to have to probably to make up a couple.  Then if I can get off to a quick start tomorrow, then back on to trying to execute a major game plan and minimize the errors.   
 Q.  What would you like tomorrow?  
ADAM SCOTT: Some nice weather would be nice tomorrow.  I'd take that.  Well, I'll wish for it.   
 Q.  What preparation will you do tonight?  
ADAM SCOTT: Look, I think the first two rounds are in the bag and I'm obviously a fair way behind.  I think I've just got to relax and have some fun on the weekend and hopefully get some momentum going.  It's been a bit of a year for me in the majors, where I've just not got the momentum happening.  A hot front nine could change that tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT