BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
August 28, 2020
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. How would you characterize your round out there today?
 ADAM SCOTT:   It was just a grind.  Look, I'm not hitting it very good at all.  Fortunately I'm putting well, and that's keeping my score respectable.  I'm missing so many fairways, which makes it hard, and around here, you're going to pay the price eventually, and that's why both the first two rounds I've struggled to get it in the clubhouse.  I'm hanging, I'm hanging but I miss a couple fairways coming in on tough holes, and it's hard to avoid a bogey.
 Q. How hard is that mentally when you know you're struggling with your swing on a course as demanding as this, especially off the tee?
 ADAM SCOTT:   It's challenging because I'm just trying to kind of clear my head to hit a shot off the tee, and it's hard when you hit one left and then you hit the next one right and you're trying not to think about it too much.  I don't think it's far away, but I just haven't found the rhythm out there at all, and I struggled with that over the weekend in Boston a bit and again here.
 But I'm grinding.  I want to play next week.
 Q. Obviously right now you're only three back of the lead.  Does that give you hope for what could come over this weekend?
 ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, yeah.  I mean, I'm hopeful that it was a two-day grind and I feel a lot more comfortable on the weekend, that I find my kind of rhythm.  If I do that and I hit a few more fairways I'll hopefully hit a few more greens, and putting well, I think I can challenge.  But I really do think I've got to play a little better on the weekend if I'm going to hang around.
 Q. Usually this part of the season guys are near the finish, you're approaching a time where you're really going to shut it down.  Is there any value right now to having a challenge like this course given the challenge you're going to face in three weeks at Winged Foot?
 ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, I like it, honestly.  I think coming off Harding Park, which was tough, maybe not quite as tough as this, but it was still tough, and you had to play -- it's definitely setting you up for what Winged Foot is going to be because even if it's an easy setup there it's going to be tough.
 Q. Was it any different today having been through yesterday and knowing the grind, whereas some guys may have been caught by surprise with how tough the conditions were in the opening round?
 ADAM SCOTT:   I think the greens were probably just a bit firmer than in practice yesterday, and that little bit firmer made a big difference to getting comfortable out there.  For sure I was first group at 11:30 today, they were a little more receptive for the front nine, and I think the scoring maybe is a little bit better today.  It seemed like the greens were -- most of them were a little more receptive today.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT