U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 18, 2016
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You're done with a bit of a par through the tournament now?  
ADAM SCOTT: It's good.  I actually was -- when you play all right on those long days, it's quite good to just keep playing, and I was happy with that yesterday.  Got to be pretty pleased with three pars on those holes to finish the course.  It would have been nice to sneak a birdie in, but that doesn't always happen at U.S. Opens.   
I'm in good shape as long as there's no one like Westwood does anything crazy, but even if he does, it's going to play harder and harder over the weekend.  So if I can just hold my spot here for another day, then I think I'll be in with a shot tomorrow.   
 Q.  The harder it gets, it probably plays into your hands a bit, eh?  
ADAM SCOTT: It depends how good I play.  I think I can play a little bit better in all aspects of the game.  I mean, it's probably not going to firm up, which is quite good because it keeps me able to push it down there and keep it in the fairways, like I have been, which has worked well so far.   
The greens might firm up, but I'm going to have to be a little bit better into the green certainly to win a U.S. Open, you're going to have to make some putts.  Hopefully, they'll come on the weekend.   
 Q.  What's your gut feel about a score that might get the job done?  
ADAM SCOTT: It's going to be around even.  I think we're going to see -- maybe not this afternoon.  I mean, we'll see fast greens this afternoon, but we're going to see some crazy ones tomorrow.  I'm sure they're going to put it right to the limit tomorrow because they just haven't been probably exactly where they want them.  They'll be just a little bit firmer, and then I think they're really cutting them a lot at the moment, and they can go again tomorrow.  I think we'll see some crazy stuff tomorrow.   
 Q.  Does it pick up three to four feet between round 1 and 2?  
ADAM SCOTT: It's really hard to measure.  They were playable round 1.  They were tricky round 2, the severe greens.  The other greens were fine, like 1, 10 and 12, the pin spot on 12 was a (indiscernible) pin, but 1 and 10 were really fast.  The others were really fast too.  But those severe greens are the ones that play super fast.   
Look, I even had a very simple looking putt on 14 yesterday, the second time round from eight feet and hit it six feet by, and I didn't really think it would look like a putt that I just had to get rolling.  They're quick first up after cut and roll.   
 Q.  When you look back at, say, 15 yesterday, is that going to be critical?  That sort of moment when you're in potentially a little bit of trouble and you can hold your nerve?  
ADAM SCOTT: Huge moment.  That's what you have to do at these big events, especially at U.S. Opens because you often get in those kinds of situations.  You've got to find a way to just drop one and keep the momentum, if that even makes sense because it's really easy to make bogeys and really hard to make birdies at U.S. Opens.  Dropping one can keep your round together.  Dropping two in one hole, you might take 18 holes to find two more birdies to make that up.   
 Q.  Especially around now, your tee time could get later and later and later as the day goes on.  Having this hours of rest in between --  
ADAM SCOTT: Look, the whole tournament is going to be odd now from our first day, but it is what it is.  I can't control that.  Like I said, I was happy to play all those holes yesterday even though it was tiring.  I get a bit of a rest now and then try and play as many good ones as I can this afternoon.  I'll probably have to come back tomorrow morning maybe and finish.  It will be close.  I don't know if they'll finish.   
Then you've got Sunday of the U.S. Open.   
 Q.  Last night, it looks like you guys could have played at least one more.  
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, I think there was room for one more hole.  With me being -- I would have liked to tee it off the 7th last night, but I guess it comes down to the guys.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT