THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 15, 2016
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ADAM SCOTT: It could have been a different story for me over the weekend had I not done that, but that's one of 72 holes I have to play.  I hung in there and had a good finish down the stretch.  I go away from the week feeling like I'm playing some good golf.   
 Q.  How did you feel the greens were today overall?  
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, they were fine.  Obviously they're a little stressed, but speed-wise pretty fair, really, faster than Thursday and Friday but nothing like yesterday.  I think they did their best job overnight to get them back to a nice pace, and it's very hard probably once they're that far down the road to be perfectly consistent today, but I thought they did a good job of bringing them back to probably where you'd like to see them for Sunday's round.   
 Q.  If Jason goes on and does this, can you speak to how good a golf that is?  
ADAM SCOTT: Well, that's Tiger-esque, that kind of a run.  It's that thing I always try to explain how good you feel after one win, and I try to imagine how good Tiger felt just playing about five years into his pro career having won like 50 events, and imagine how you'd feel confidence-wise, and Jason must be kind of feeling something like that at the moment, and that's incredibly nice way to walk out on the golf course, and you can see it with Jason.  I played with him one day this week in practice.  You can see there's that calmness inside him, calm confidence, and the way he's walking around, he's got that kind of unbeatable look about him.   
 Q.  Have you seen that building over time a little bit as his results have come in?  
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, I think from that stretch last summer, he's been -- he's managed so far to keep that momentum going, and that's one of the hardest things to do when you are hot like that, to keep pushing, but he has a very strong desire to achieve so much, and I think probably his goals are changing throughout this period, and he's expecting more and more of himself.  He's got that ability to push himself and accomplish.   
 Q.  The two of you sit atop the FedEx rankings.  What's that say about Australian golf?  
ADAM SCOTT: Well, I think in fairness, Jason and myself have been top-15 ranked players in the world for the last five years solid.  You know, I think that's pretty exceptional for golf down there.  You know, other guys are in and out of that, and it's all cyclical like it always is.  But with a pretty dominant stretch from myself and Jason, Jason now is really good for the future of the game down there, I believe.  It keeps -- it'll keep -- Jason is going to be inspiring kids like he was inspired by Tiger.  That's really important for the overall makeup of the game down there.  It's nice to see.   
 Q.  The stretch that you're talking about is Jason's, it's also coincided with his adding a new family member.  Does that make it -- how big of a deal is it to do that in the context of adding -- you know what it's like to have a --  
ADAM SCOTT: Well, he already had one, so it was nothing -- not that big of a deal.  Yeah, it's nothing.  Nothing for him.   
No, I mean, it's obviously just a positive thing.  I'm sure that's the way he's seeing everything at the moment.  He's structured so well from what I can see, the little bits of insight that I get into his whole life, I think he's got a handle of everything very well.  He's matured as a person so much in the last four or five years, and I think that's showing in his golf game.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT