MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2016
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. You scrambled so hard, those last couple of bogeys were really burners?  
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, it's disappointing because I probably shot myself really out of wishful thinking for tomorrow. But it's so brutally difficult out there, there's no birdie opportunities and it's just a scramble all day. And I did a pretty good job of it, but I can't be too critical of my round today, it's probably going to be not bad in the big scheme of things.  
   
 Q. Well that's exactly right. I think anything around par today will be outstanding in these conditions.   
ADAM SCOTT: Absolutely. I don't know what the best score is yet, but it's certainly not going to be many under par out there today. The greens are so, so tough. They're so fast today. I mean, it's blustery conditions, it's just impossible to really control the ball.  
   
 Q. As I said, you hit that tee shot at 16, probably one of the best of the day and then standing over the putt and you can't stop it down the hill.   
ADAM SCOTT: Well, if it gets to the hole it's got to go in or it's going five feet by. And it went five feet by and, unfortunately, I missed it coming back. I made so many good putts today and it's a shame to miss that one, because if I pick the right line there, a birdie and back to four. And, like I said, I might be wishful thinking for tomorrow, but it's nice teeing off Sunday here thinking a great round and you never know what can happen.   
   
 Q. Can you put it into words just how tough it is when the wind blows here and the greens are in the state they are, it's, it must play with your mind, surely?  
ADAM SCOTT: It does. You just don't know what to do. Because you have to be slightly defensive because if you miss being aggressive, then you'll pay a severe price of double, but if you miss being defensive, it's hard to scramble for par.   
So, it's just, it just requires full commitment on every shot and really I mean you have to ball strike it perfectly to get around without any trouble here today.  
   
 Q. So do you go out aggressively tomorrow?  
ADAM SCOTT: You can't be aggressive here when the greens are like this. Although, it might not blow as much tomorrow, so it might be more normal Sunday conditions. And if that's the case, with the traditional Sunday hole locations, there's a chance that you can get some balls feeding back into the hole probably more like we saw on the first day.   
   
 Q. From the get‑go the course was just brutal, wasn't it?  
ADAM SCOTT: It was really tough. A bit cooler this morning and very windy, blustery. It was one of the toughest days I've ever seen out here in my time here. I played fairly well, I scrambled pretty good all day, but I just never had any real opportunities for birdie.   
   
 Q. So early on the pace you were holing good six and seven footers to save pars, which can be a momentum into the rest of your round, but the course just ate it all up from there, didn't it?  
ADAM SCOTT: Absolutely. I think it's going to do it to everyone. I would be surprised if guys are making more than three or four birdies in the day out there. If they are, it's going to be round of the day, probably. And it's just so very hard to judge the wind correctly, get the ball close, and then hole a putt. Because the greens are so fast and when the wind's whipping across it, it's just very hard to get it started on your line.   
   
 Q. So with that when the wind is blowing you around, how hard are the 4‑footers to hit?  
ADAM SCOTT: They're hard to hit because you got to hit it confidently to go down its line. If you miss it, then you miss the same thing again on the next one and I'm sure you've seen plenty that have this week. It's just an incredible test of golf out there. It requires full commitment on every shot. And still sometimes that's not enough.   
   
 Q. You know where the leaders sit. Do you think, where do you think that will be at the end of the day? You're probably coming up ‑‑ the wind's dropped a little bit since you played. You've been on the wrong side of the draw three days in a row?  
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, I feel like I've been beaten around a bit this week. It's very hard to get an indication of how you're even playing because some of the shots you have to play are not your usual stuff and it's very hard to find momentum. I believe the leaders can be maybe under par still at the end of the day. It's going to be very tough in that pressure situation to get it around here in under par today.   
   
 Q. 4‑iron in on the first, is that right?  
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, driver, 4‑iron. I mean it was just really quite cool and straight into maybe the, felt like our front nine was the windiest I felt it all day it was so difficult. It was carnage. Just looking at the board, it looked like everyone was just having issues on the front around the time I was out there.  
   
 Q. You're a veteran here now, is it the most difficult? You were here in 2007.   
ADAM SCOTT: 2007, Friday, was the most difficult day, from my memory. And a similar kind of feeling, on 16, it's funny, that pin was in the same spot Friday in 2007 and it's just glass around that hole. I hit a lovely shot in there and I certainly wasn't aggressive with my putt, but it goes five feet by when it misses and I missed it coming back.  
And I bogeyed two of the last three, it's just a shame, because if I shot 1‑over today I would be thinking that's really good. It's so hard to gauge whether you're playing good or not in these conditions. So I did a lot of things really well today, so I don't know that I can say today's round did me in, probably Thursday's did.  
   
 Q. It would be hard to even judge how you've been playing here?  
ADAM SCOTT: I don't have a great feel. I feel like I've played better each day, it doesn't, the score doesn't necessarily reflect that, but today was extremely difficult, I felt for most of my round.  
   
 Q. On the first today, you had one go into the crowd there on the second shot. What was the lie like in the right rough over there on the second shot?  
ADAM SCOTT: Well, it's a horrible thing to say, but I just, I was aiming up the right and tried to punch it hard and I just didn't turn it over. I just wanted to scuttle one down, because it's a good spot to be up the right far and unfortunately it just didn't come out on my line in the crowd. But, you kind of aim out that way.   
   
 Q. What was the club?  
ADAM SCOTT: It was a 4‑iron.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT