WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 5, 2016
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How would you rate your overall play?
ADAM SCOTT: It was a bit average today.  I didn't have my best stuff, that's for sure.  And just couldn't get a putt to go in.  They just wouldn't go today, one of those days, unfortunately.  And Rory played really good golf and got away from me a bit.  I've got my work cut out for me tomorrow now.
Q. What do you need to do tomorrow that maybe was different from today?
ADAM SCOTT: I think my rhythm and swing was just off.  It was one of those days, don't know why.  I just didn't feel as good as I have for the last couple weeks.  But hopefully I'll wake up on the right side of the bed tomorrow.
Q. Strategically, as we talk about tomorrow, does this force you to be a little more aggressive on a dangerous golf course tomorrow with Rory playing as well as he is?
ADAM SCOTT: I don't think so.  I thought I played pretty smart out there today.  I just didn't take advantage of any of my good shots unfortunately.  I'm going to have to do similar tomorrow.  I'm not long enough to really challenge the really long stuff out there.
I didn't take advantage of any of my good shots, and when I was scrambling, I dropped shots.  It was a grind but the course played tough today.  Rory played beautiful and shot 4-under.  He probably feels like he left a few out there, that's how good he played.  No one else could really get it going either.  This course is tough.  I'm going to have to make some putts tomorrow and hopefully today was just my off-day.
Q. Let me ask you about 14, the shot out of the fairway bunker.  That was one incredible shot.
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, I've hit two good fairway bunker shots in two weeks with a 9-iron.  But you know, you've got to be a little lucky.  That was just one where you swing as hard as you can and hope, and I hit it really clean and it just got out and managed to get there.  But really, I needed something to happen, and fortunately I pulled one off there and managed to keep a little pressure on Rory maybe.
Q. Only three back, tough course, tough hole locations tomorrow, wind is going to be blowing; what do you think?
ADAM SCOTT: For me, I need a good round of golf, but getting off to a good start is going to be key.  Someone's got to quickly put a little pressure on Rory and not let him get ahead because he could start quick someone's got to go with him so I'll be focused on the first three or four holes and try to set my round up from there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT