WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 5, 2016
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Give us some quick comments about your round.  Sounded like a frustrating day for you today?
ADAM SCOTT: I mean, a little bit.  To fall three back, nothing really went my way.  I didn't swing the club my best the back nine.  I swung it good on the front nine, but the back nine -- I didn't make anything today.  It was one of those days where you just don't quite hit it close enough and then the putts don't go in.  It's not the round you need.
Rory played the round everyone was looking for out there pretty much.  Pretty stress-free, 4-under, he made a few nice putts, and you know, three back is a probably the disappointing thing.  But yeah, in with a chance tomorrow, with a good start.
Q. Is it the kind of day where you have to hold yourself back from pressing a little, or do you just have to make sure that you're really patient?
ADAM SCOTT: Well, you just have to execute tomorrow.  I mean, I think I hit it good enough on the front to give myself some chances but I didn't make them -- hopefully that just goes through the rest of the game as well.
Q. Are you hitting it solidly enough that the wind didn't bother you?
ADAM SCOTT: Yes, I just -- I was hitting it solid.  I just didn't start a few where I wanted to.  My rhythm got a bit off.  I don't know why.  It just didn't feel as crisp as it has for the last six rounds of golf I've played.
Q. Does winning last week allow you to be more aggressive this week chasing?
ADAM SCOTT: It's relative aggressiveness.  It's not like I'm just going to stand and fire at every pin just because I can.  You've really just got to get the ball in play, especially when it's windy here.  It's so hard to hit those greens out of the rough, but you just have no control.  I missed more fairways today, and it just made it harder to get the ball close, and I missed a few more greens because of that.
Just the lies are so unpredictable in the rough; you've got to hit the fairway on a windy day.  I think if it's similar conditions tomorrow, I'm just going to have to sharpen up off the tee to give myself the best look.
Q. You said it was a stress-free 4-under for Rory.  You've played a lot of golf with him, is that kind of one of the rounds you that would rank as one of his best that you've seen up close?
ADAM SCOTT: I've seen Rory play some great golf.  I think he's going to be very satisfied with that round.  Looked like he was under total control.  Of course, there are a couple shots here or there that he could nitpick but it was really all under control.
He scrambled when he had to.  He executed a lot of great shots.  He drove the ball great.  And that's what I'm talking about; if you drive the ball great, you're going to create more opportunities our here, and that's what he did well and I didn't do well today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT