THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 18, 2020
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  RACHEL NOBLE:   I'd like to welcome Adam Scott here at The NORTHERN TRUST.  Coming into the FedExCup Playoffs at number 36 in the standings.
 Adam, I know this tournament is special to you with being a past champion, having six Top-10 finishes.  Just some comments on getting underway here at the Playoffs.
 ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, it's an exciting time of year, the Playoffs.  Obviously this run the next few weeks, a lot can happen, and given everything that's gone on this year, I'm kind of pleased with my position, actually.  I feel like a couple good weeks will go a long way in getting me positioned to have a chance in Atlanta.  So it's all very important stuff this week.  I'm looking forward to playing at a course where I've had past success and a tournament I've also had past success.
 RACHEL NOBLE:   Speaking of which, I know you have some fond memories here at TPC Boston picking up your first PGA TOUR career win.  Just some thoughts on the course and how it does feel to be back here.
 ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, I think it's obviously circumstances, slightly different, but every year I've come back, certainly TPC Boston has kind of been my adopted home, being my first TOUR win so many years ago and a lot of familiar faces who have been here with me that entire time, so welcoming.  The course has changed a lot over the years, a lot of improvements and it's really kind of come into its own and matured, so we've seen some great events.  Fond memories to be here and I have good vibes.
 Q. Just curious, when it comes to swing thoughts you have, what is something you keep returning to in your swing, a swing thought that's served you well over the years or something that you may be thinking about right now?
 ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, there's been a lot over the years.
 Q. Most notable?
 ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, there are a couple.  Probably over the last nine or ten years, maybe nine years, I've kind of kept returning to this very deliberate backswing to keep the pace off the ball slow.  I don't know what it is.  But it seems it's very easy for my swing to get fast off the ball, and I do like a thought to focus on rhythm.  And a lot over the last ten years or so, I've really actually focused on like Inbee Park's backswing.  It's so slow and deliberate, and to me that's the extreme opposite of what I feel when I'm not swinging well.  So I focus on like having the slowest backswing possible.
 Q. I have a question about the back nine.  It's pretty unique, the four most difficult holes at TPC Boston are consecutive 11 through 14, what's your strategy?
 ADAM SCOTT:   You've just got to survive, really.  That is a brutal stretch of holes.  You know, you are really hoping to get off to a good start here and get your round going, and if you've done that, then you are looking to just get through there at even par.  That would be a result.  I wouldn't even be disappointed if I was 1-over par on that stretch.  You've got a chance then to close out strong, as well.
 So it's an interesting flow to a round because you can kind of really run the tables the first ten and then you've got to hang on, and if you can hang on, you finish strong.  If you don't hang on, it can really get away from you on those holes because there's a lot of trouble.  Certainly 12, 13, 14, you can find yourself in all kinds of trouble.
 Q. What is it that makes a --  do you consider this to continue to be a championship-worthy venue, a Playoff-worthy event, and the idea of continuing this rotation beyond these couple years?
 ADAM SCOTT:   Beyond the next couple years, you mean?
 Q. Yeah.
 ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, I think so.  I think it's proven itself to provide some exciting events over the years.  The modifications to the course have certainly enhanced that, I feel.  So I think the course offers a lot of variety and that's nice to see, certainly as you come into the FedExCup Playoffs.  That's what you want to see some strategy, you know, where the guys are going for it or not on many holes out here.  So I mean, I think it's worthy of holding this spot and hopefully it stays in the rotation.
 Q. When you won back in 2003, obviously a big win because it was your first, as you mentioned.  Did you have any big splurge or spending back then, 17 years ago now?
 ADAM SCOTT:   I really don't remember specifically anything off the back of that win.  But the win is very memorable for me.  It was a fun week.  I remember more about the week here, actually, than what I did afterwards, which might not be -- might be obvious as to how I celebrate it.
 Q. Not too get overly philosophical for a Tuesday morning, but if you could go back and give advice to the 2003 Adam Scott who had just won this event, what advice would you give and what would you say?
 ADAM SCOTT:   I mean, I liked a lot of the things that that guy did at the time.  He was on a good path, and I had some success soon after, as well.  I won THE PLAYERS Championship about five months after I won here, so I was doing things well.  Then, you know, it gets a little tricky.  I was kind of on that rise up as being a young pro, but then once you kind of get near the Top-10 in the world, it's a real different level to maintain and push all the way up there, and I think, you know, looking back on it now, it's hard to remember exactly the influence and attention and intimidation that Tiger drew to golf tournaments, but it was significant to every player that was out here.  I think if anyone was playing at that time and they were being honest, there's no doubt he made a big difference.
 I think I would have told myself to kind of come up with a strategy to block out exactly what Tiger was doing in making us all feel slightly inferior to him.
 Q. Are the goals that you have now the same goals that you would have had at that point?
 ADAM SCOTT:   I think so.  It yeah, I do.  I never really had Jack Nicklaus's major record pinned up on my boardroom wall or anything but I always felt like a real legend of the game kind of was a five-time Major Champion and I still feel that's relevant, and that's not to take anything away from players who have won multiple majors and had incredible careers, but you know, there can only be so many legends of the game.  You have to draw the line somewhere and that's what I think about in my head and my goals, and I feel like I want to win multiple majors.
 You know, yeah, five still seems pretty clear to me.  That's a pretty tough goal.  I only have a few years to do it but I still think something like that would be fantastic.
 Q. Just going off what you said about Tiger in his prime and the kind of intimidation factor he had on other guys, just curious if there's anybody in the current generation, say, 30, 35 and younger -- somebody whose name is up on the leaderboard, if not, why not?
 ADAM SCOTT:   Like always, it's very, very hard to compare anyone to Tiger.  Somewhat maybe you could say it's unfair comparisons, but you know, there are a lot of incredible players today, but only one comes along every once in a while with an influence like Tiger Woods.
 In fairness, Justin Thomas, when his name is on the leaderboard, he seems like a very good closer.  I know he's had a couple close calls, but that's what happens when you're up there all the time.  You lose a couple but he's winning a lot.
 Justin Thomas and Rory, and certainly Brooks the last few years in the majors, but Justin Thomas to me seems like a who really has it dialed and is a threat.  He can sneak his way up when hasn't had a great week, or he can dominate a tournament from the get-go, so he's certainly putting it all together.
 RACHEL NOBLE:   Thanks so much for your time and good luck this week.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT