THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 26, 2016
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Pretty much a flawless round.
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, for around here, absolutely.  This is a demanding track, and the wind was probably blowing ten solid today.  So yeah, a great day to come out and hit it right out of the middle of the club, and I'm glad I took advantage of it, because I needed to, just to kind of be within shouting distance of the leader.
Q. Rickie has not made a bogey up to this point, but you said you wanted a build-up to Augusta.  The second place finish last week, you wanted to start putting good performances together.  Is this the start of that run that you want?
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, I hope so.  I mean, I've made ten rounds of golf this year and I've shot in the 60s every round.  It's starting to get really solid, and I've got to just keep doing that and let the confidence build.  That's how you get to a major and guarantee you can put yourself in that position Sunday with a chance, and that's what I did for a few years, and I'd like this to be the start of that run.  That's what I'm trying to do.
Q. When you look at the rounds in the 60s, and I look at the putting, and because there's been a lot of discussion about that, but when I watch Adam Scott putt now, I see a very confident putter and I see a very calm putter.
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, I agree with you.  I feel that way.  You don't shoot solid rounds in the 60s like that putting bad.  It's just not possible, no matter how good you hit it.
I feel it can get better and that's exciting for me.  I'm really enjoying putting, and I feel I'm just going to continue to get better and push myself along, and until I'm the best putter out here, I'm not going to stop.
Q. Another solid round.  Just get some comments on your day.
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, I played really great today tee-to-green.  It was exactly what you want to do around this kind of golf course, in a little bit of wind; and also in the afternoon when the greens are just not quite as smooth playing 7:45 in the morning.
You want to take the pressure off yourself, and that's what I did today.  But I needed to, because I teed off eight shots behind, and I had to make them up.
Q. Rickie has gone around here twice with no bogeys.  Does that seem real to you?
ADAM SCOTT: Well, I think it's possible.  I did one, so he's twice as good as me.  But it's great golf.  What can you say, Rickie has got to be playing full of confidence at the moment the way he's played the last year.
Q. You haven't played a lot yet this year.  Coming here, was there a feeling that you hadn't done enough work yet, or how do you feel about where you're at?
ADAM SCOTT: Not really, not after last week.  Last week kind of confirmed that things were on the right track.  I definitely saw things I wanted -- a couple things I wanted to work on after last week that I felt under the heat of contention Sunday weren't as good as I would like.  Tried to work on them a little bit Monday and Tuesday.  They feel good so far, so we'll test it again this weekend.
It's a similar schedule that I've played the last few years.  Yeah, I come to Florida, I haven't played much, but I try and get enough golf in before Augusta and keep myself fresh for the summer.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT