THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 25, 2016
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  That was a tough golf course out there, you wake up, you find the wind blowing 20 miles per hour, but yet out of a different direction.  
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, it just always seems to blow around here no matter what direction.  And always plays tough, even with the amount of rain in the last couple days, it's not easy to get the ball if good spots out there when it's blowing this hard.   
I thought there were some pretty challenging pins out there, as well, in back corners of greens that made it tougher, because it made it quite long, a few of those holes.  I'm very happy with even par.  Really wasn't going to be much better but not much worse either.   
 Q.  Tied for 12th but I noticed some mud on the ball at the last hole, your finishing hole.  Did that happen much of the day or not much of a problem?  
ADAM SCOTT: No, didn't seem to be too much of a problem for me, which is fortunate around here because there are so many shots into greens across the water and that's when you definitely don't want a mud ball.  Luckily only on my last hole and there was no water involved.   
Hopefully the wind is going to really dry the course up, and we're going to have some firmer conditions over the next few days.   
 Q.  And the putter, the pace I thought was excellent today.  The adjustment, we often talk about going from the West Coast to the East Coast, from poa annua to bermuda.  I thought the speed of your putts was really good today?  
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, look, the greens are beautiful.  They are rolling great.  I wished I could have hit it a bit closer so I had some more realistic chances of making putts, but I rolled a lot across the hole.  It was tough putting today.  It was so windy, putting back into the wind or crosswind, allowing for that, the wind hitting the putter head in the stroke caught me a couple times, caught Phil once, and you leave them a little embarrassingly short or charge them by because your rhythm gets affected.  But overall a good, solid start.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT