WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 5, 2015
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ADAM SCOTT: Better off asking John Paramor for the exact ruling, but basically, I was incurring a severe disadvantage by getting the wrong rule, by getting an error in the ruling and having to take a penalty for that, they were able to retract another penalty.   
 Q.  Did it take a lot of back and forth to get to that point?  
ADAM SCOTT: It seemed like it was not any clear point in their rules or decisions of rules as to this situation.  So they had to get confirmation from someone else.   
 Q.  So it was the second shot where you lifted and placed?  
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, I just hit it next to the green of just missed the green.   
 Q.  And that's where you did it?  
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah.  I think everyone should probably be quite careful with it this week because a lot of the banks near the greens --   
 Q.  You can't tell --  
ADAM SCOTT: You can't tell unless you go back to see where the cut is slightly different.  It looks like they just haven't cut it because they were wet.   
 Q.  So when your original ball that you touched that you shouldn't have touched, when you replaced it, you chipped up and made three and they came in and said it was --  
ADAM SCOTT: I chipped up and marked.  I had not putted in for three.  But yeah, and then I realised I could have done the wrong thing here, so I called an official over.   
 Q.  So you would have made a four, then you got the penalty and made a five.  And then they tried to give you another penalty for a six.  
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, basically I chipped up -- I incurred a penalty, I chipped up, missed my putt for four and made a five.  But then was told that that was now a two-shot penalty so made a six.   
 Q.  I wanted to ask you, it would be remiss not to ask, Stevie's book coming out this week, getting a lot of traction --  
ADAM SCOTT: I haven't read it.   
 Q.  I guess a distraction from four years ago at this very tournament, you were getting hounded with questions every day.  Do you expect this to be a distraction going forward?  
ADAM SCOTT: I don't think so, although I don't know what's exactly in the book.  I think not.  I think everyone knows probably what to expect.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT