CIMB CLASSIC
November 1, 2015
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You can't really complain about today, can you?  
ADAM SCOTT: No, it was a great round of golf and, no, I played great all week, but they got off to a faster start, and I was chasing, and I chased hard but probably not enough.   
 Q.  Talk about the last eagle attempt on 18.  What happened there?  
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, it was disappointing not to hit a better putt.  It was a really big breaking putt, and I completely didn't trust it.  And one of the only ones I did that on, and it's a shame.   
And then I kind of tried to pull it towards the hole and it broke as much as I thought and it wasn't even close.  So, I probably needed that one to go, but 35 footers breaking four feet are not gimmie's.  So look, I threw everything I could at it today.  I'm playing well, and that's nice, because I haven't played that well for awhile.   
 Q.  Especially 63, one of your lowest rounds in a long while.  You must take a lot of positives for the next couple of weeks?  
ADAM SCOTT: Absolutely.  These are important events to start the next year's PGA TOUR season.   
Next week is the World Golf Championship.  I would love to get into contention there and try and win.  I would like to have a win before the end of the season.  So this is a step in the right direction.   
 Q.  A little bit about Justin Thomas.  Seems like he's going to do it.  He's come back very nicely after that double --  
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, I mean, look, these kids playing out on TOUR now are so good, they keep learning from the guys before, and they're like experienced at 22, somehow.   
So, it's great to see.  It's, again, another indication of how good a shape and how strong a shape the game's in with these young guys really taking it to everyone.   
 Q.  Does that give you a push as well?  
ADAM SCOTT: Absolutely.  Even at 35, unfortunately, like your time's numbered a little bit.  And that's the way it's going, the world's moving fast now, so I got to make the most of the next few years, absolutely.  But, yeah, it's motivating for sure.  I want to get up there and play and show them that the old dog's still got something.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT