CROWNE PLAZA INVITATIONAL AT COLONIAL
May 23, 2015
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Adam, no one makes them all, but I really thought you hit good putts both at 17 and 18, at least one of them could have dunked in.  
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, it would have been nice.   I mean, I felt like I played pretty good again today and one or two more might have had me in with a good shot tomorrow, hopefully anyway.  
   
 Q.   Yeah, we never know what the weather situation tomorrow will be, but as defending champion you have a chance to join Ben Hogan as the only back-to-back winner of this event.   Just being mentioned with Mr. Hogan's name is wonderful.  
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, it is, absolutely.   I'm going to need a round where they do all go in tomorrow.   Obviously it's about giving yourself a lot of chances out there.   If you can hit the fairway, you're going to hit a lot of greens and then the chances come.   But you've got to make some putts, and as long as I keep hitting good ones, they might go.  
   
 Q.   Absolutely.   Let me ask you this, I keep expecting someone to make a charge and burn up the inward nine.   So far no one's really put up a really good number coming home.  
ADAM SCOTT:   It's just one of those great golf courses where even though it might not be the longest course and have the most degree of difficulty into some of the holes, it's still hard to make birdies.   The pins can be put in very tricky spots, and even in soft conditions you would be a brave man to fire at too many of them.  
   
 Q.   Did you eagle 7?  
ADAM SCOTT:   No, I didn't.   I made a birdie on 7.  
   
 Q.   I was just looking, a couple days late, was there one cute or funny moment from the champions dinner that you can recall that you enjoyed more than the others, a memorable moment?   I heard Boo Weekley got --  
ADAM SCOTT:   Boo took a hard time.   That's normal, isn't it?  
   
 Q.   Yeah, that's normal.   We love to pick on him.  
ADAM SCOTT:   We got to poke fun at Boo.  
   
 Q.   Any highlight for you?  
ADAM SCOTT:   No, it was just a fun night had by all, I think.   Everyone seemed to be in really good spirits and everyone there enjoying themselves.   It's nice to see a club with a really strong club atmosphere and nice to be a part of that.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT