WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 8, 2015
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You were primed to make a bit of a surge at one stage during the round?
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, I got off do a really good, solid start today.   Played the first ten really, really good, just how you'd kind of plan it, as if you were going out there.   And unfortunately loose tee ball off 11 and ended up with a bogey. 
And then I tried to challenge the course a bit.   Maybe I didn't need to but I tried to be aggressive, and felt like I scrambled much 6 the rest of the round.   It wasn't pretty golf like the first ten holes.   Might have made an error there, especially as I see 18, and I was six through ten, but finding any birdies is hard out there. 

Q.   You must be happy with the progress you saw over the four days, to start out the season?
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, there's a lot of good stuff.   Certainly you can out full of rust and not competitive.   There was plenty of good stuff and I think I can really tighten a few things up.   Obviously you need a few more shots on TOUR than you do back at home with the boys, so a few things to work on. 
But I was really happy with the way I took my game out of a break and back into play and certainly made my share of putts this week, which felt good switching back to a shorter putter.

Q.   The next two weeks, you're going to Tampa and Bay Hill?
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, I think it's a good little stretch for me to challenge myself into a bit of form into Augusta. 
Next week I'm going to have to stay patient, it's a little tighter golf course.   Just really going to have to rein it in and challenge the swing a little bit.   But I need to play.   I need to be in that competitive form and this was a good chance. 
Like I said, maybe lack of competition just didn't get me over the line on the back nine today when I could have snuck in and posted a number.   So the next few weeks, get a bit of form going and hopefully be good for Augusta. 

Q.   How do you feel this week after you changed your putter? 
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, I'm very happy with what I saw out there.   Made plenty of putts.   The greens were beautiful, so you want to, felt like I started the year off on the right foot.   Hopefully I can build on this and just get better. 

Q.   Are you going to keep the conventional putter for next tournament and for the Masters? 
ADAM SCOTT:   That's the plan.   I think I putted very well overall and feel very comfortable with where I'm at with it.   I've got to test it the next couple weeks again, and hopefully it keeps improving and I'll be a red‑hot putter by the Masters. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT