WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 5, 2015
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Well played out there, 2‑under par.   Went with the short putter today.   How did that go? 
ADAM SCOTT:   It was good. I putted really good today I thought.   It was tough, tough golf course out there except for a couple guys obviously who shot really low.   But it was tough.   I made my mistakes, just on 13 and 14 but I played a really good round of golf other than that, and I made plenty of putts, very happy. 

Q.   As you make your first start in 2015 over here, what went well for you today? 
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, I kind of took everything off the range that had been feeling good and off the practice areas and put it in on the course, and it was pretty good.   It was pretty solid.   I certainly didn't feel like it was kind of a three‑month layoff round.   And had to be pretty good to be under par out there today.   It was tricky.   The putting was really good.   Not that I'm surprised but I'm pleased that it was.   And you know, hopefully something to work on from here. 

Q.   How has fatherhood been? 
ADAM SCOTT:   Well, it's good and it's bad; I'm here and they are in Australia, so I'm missing out but even just thinking about her makes me happy.   It's been really good. 

Q.   You talked about the putts and right out of the gate you had some 30‑footers and 40‑footers and it seemed like you passed that test. 
ADAM SCOTT:   It was good.   Look, like I said I shouldn't be surprised.   I'm pleased with how I putted and I said yesterday that it really isn't that big a deal.   It just takes a little while to adjust and change a couple muscle memory things that happened in different styles of putting. 
Yeah, a couple of the longer ones today weren't quite perfect.   But there was nothing bad at all in there.   It was good and I made a lot of put to be fair.

Q.   Do you think other people may forget that you previously putted very well‑‑
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, everyone's got a pretty short memory of most things these days. 

Q.   Some of the guys‑‑ you're different?
ADAM SCOTT:   Sure.   I think so.   Certainly for a couple other guys, it may be a much bigger switch.   But I can think back to some really good putting memories putting with a short one and making some really important putts.   So I have good memories of that, too. 

Q.   Is what you're doing, do you remember that or is it starting again‑‑
ADAM SCOTT:   Not really.   Just start fresh.   That felt good.   Felt a lit like when I switched to the longer putter, it was a really different, fresh feel and so is this.   I'm not doing things exactly the same as I did them before.   It's been feeling really good I'm trying not to clutter my head with too much thought. 

Q.   You had a bad lie in the bunker and real‑‑ yeah?
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, they weren't bad shots.   They ended in bad spots, just a slight misjudgment of wind and playing it straight across and it was helping slightly and two holes that you don't want to go past the pin on the way past. 
So, okay, 13, I can accept but the next one was a bit of a shocker.   Then there's 20 yards of green short, short of the pin and you end up 20 yards over the back and that's not good. 
Yeah, okay, mistakes happen on days like today.   It's tough out there but I held it together good.   There was enough good golf to make up for those couple. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT