WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 5, 2014
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  ROYCE THOMPSON:   Welcome Adam Scott to the interview room.   Last season Adam collected his 11th tour win at the Crowne Plaza and also finished Top 15 in all four majors and recorded ten Top‑10s.   
If you could, just some opening comments about starting your season in Shanghai.   
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, I guess it's strange that this is the start of the new season, as it's still in the same year, but that's the way it is now.   
Obviously a very important tournament this week, HSBC Champions on the calendar, and a good chance for me to get off to a good start and give myself some comfort early in the new FedExCup season.   But important for me to finish off well, I have three events after this in Australia, and certainly want to find some good form for the next month or so.   
ROYCE THOMPSON:   And also you got to do something pretty cool last night in an HSBC event.   If you could talk a little about that?   
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, I think one of the unique things for some of the players in coming to the HSBC Champions in China is learning and also participating in some of the cultural ceremonies, I guess they have.   And so last night we were part of the lantern ceremony, which is I guess a celebration of reunion and that's what HSBC's theme is this week with it being the 10th anniversary.   
Myself and a couple other guys were involved, and fortunately not asked to do too much of the dancing with the traditional dancers.   Just had to hang a lantern and that was a bit of fun.   
   
 Q.   The second part of the season, apart from the Japan Open, which I gather you were pretty jet‑lagged, you weren't outside of the top 16, but didn't win.   Was there any one little thing that was holding you back or was it several different intangibles?  
ADAM SCOTT:   I think throughout the FedExCup Playoffs, I think my putting wasn't as spot on as it had been all season, and that contributes to part of it.   
Certainly something I've been working on over the previous weeks.   Other than that, everything is in good shape and the putting just wasn't as sharp as it needs to be to maybe win an event.   It's very difficult to win, you don't see many multiple winners in the year and you really have to be on your game in all areas.   There can't be anything lacking, and I think unfortunately for a month there, it was just average.   
   
 Q.   And also wanted to ask you about Rory not being here and your thoughts on that, do you look at it from a selfish point of view and say, one less good player to beat, or do you see it as being unfortunate for the tournament or a bit of both?  
ADAM SCOTT:   Well, it's both but that's the way this game is.   Unfortunately I decided not to come last year and I had heavy commitments in Australia, and that's a tough decision, and I know Giles at HSBC and everyone involved understands this is how it is.   
But again they have put together an incredibly strong field with I think 40 of the Top‑50 in the world this week and there are not many tournaments that can claim to have a field like that throughout the year.   
Selfishly, yeah, Rory is the main threat to everyone and is opens up the field a little bit this week.   
   
 Q.   When you look back at the whole season, what sort of report card would you give yourself?   
ADAM SCOTT:   I guess I give myself a B.   Any time that you get to No. 1 in the world, that has to be a positive, and I managed to do that this year for a few weeks.   And winning a tournament is always the goal.   
I'd love to win more but like I said, I think it's tough and there are a few reasons why I didn't win more, even though I had the chance to.   
I expected more out of myself from the start of the year, but that's probably obvious coming off a great 2013 and it's hard to back it up.   But I feel like everything is in good shape and you know, continue down this process, I'll probably have a good year next year but the short answer is probably satisfy.  
   
 Q.   You've talked about the situation with your caddie but looking ahead to the Majors, of course Augusta, but when you look at the other three venues, are you sort of enthusiastic about those three venues, as well?  
ADAM SCOTT:   Well, of course, the Old Course, that's going to be a great week, looking forward to that.   We don't know much about Chambers Bay, and you know, some homework is going to have to be done.   So that's exciting, going somewhere new.   It's new for everyone and it's going to be a pretty level playing field I think going there.  
And then I believe we're going back to Whistling Straits, which a few guys have played a couple times in the past and it's a very good test of golf.   They ever all demanding, as Majors are, and I'm just going to be looking to go through the same routines that I've been doing that's given me some success over the last couple years, tighten up a few things here and there and hopefully have a great run next year.   
   
 Q.   The winner of the FedExCup comparatively has a lower ranking of players.   Do you think that there needs to be any changes that has to be made for the FedExCup or do you think it's a good thing for the FedExCup?   
ADAM SCOTT:   I think the volatility is what they were looking for in the FedExCup so that the best players in the world come together for four weeks at the end of the year, which didn't happen much before, and they didn't want to have a winner before it even started.   
So they have had a couple changes already and I think now they are fixed with the points structure the way it is, and as far as I'm concerned, I just accept that and you the best way to deal with it is play well and win.   And that's all I can do.   
I think if they want to not have a predictable outcome, then they need to keep it the way it is.   
ROYCE THOMPSON:   Thank you, Adam and good luck this week.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT