PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2014
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   First off, 5‑under, 66 today.   Five birdies, no bogeys.   Talk about your round?  
ADAM SCOTT:   It was good solid round.   Obviously to have no bogeys is good.   Probably left a couple out there.   Seems like 4‑ or 5‑under is about even par today.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, got off to a perfect start and just missed a couple good chances.   Could have been the putts, could have been the chips.   Something needed to be a bit better there.   I hung in there.   Even though my game is certainly not 100 percent, I managed to get around all right.  
   
 Q.   Going to take a special Sunday round.   I imagine you'll just go after it?  
ADAM SCOTT:   Absolutely.   Need to.   All my birdies today were from four feet and in.   It's doable out there, if you can get it in the fairway enough.   I still didn't get it in the fairway enough today.   You've just got to give yourself 18 looks at it and hope you make your share.  
   
 Q.   Is it frustrating to know you are keeping your scores low and then you look at everybody else doing the exact same thing?  
ADAM SCOTT:   That's just the way it is.   When a golf course gets shot, it gets easier.   Just how it is.   Scores are going to be really low this week.   I don't see it toughening up any at all.  
   
 Q.   Does your frustration come from (inaudible)?  
ADAM SCOTT:   Just how it is.   I mean, you can't hit it good every week of the year.   I do a good job generally of playing well at big events.   It's not going to happen every week for me.   I'm just doing the best I can with maybe not my best game, but trying hard to get something to happen.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
ADAM SCOTT:   Not really, no.   It's just playing so easy out there.   Doesn't get any easier.   
Even your mis‑hits stay in the fairway if they land in the fairway.   Stay on the green if they land on the green.   It's pretty soft.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, I felt I was due to make a putt some time this week.   I haven't made anything.   I started getting a couple to the hole today.   It was nice to see one go in.   That was fun.  
   
 Q.   Knowing how soft the golf course is, does that change your game plan for tomorrow?   
ADAM SCOTT:   You have to firstly get it in the fairway to give yourself a chance to hit at pins.   If you do then you can be aggressive.   
I would love to say I was not mis‑hitting a shot, but sometimes it's even hard to go at pins when you are not 100 percent sure.   There's still plenty of trouble to get in out there.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about (inaudible)?  
ADAM SCOTT:   Well, I'm probably too far back unless there's something special in there tomorrow.   I'll certainly be trying, but I'm pretty pleased to have a bogey‑free round.   That's a good thing.   Just needed a few more birdies.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT