PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 2014
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You've given him the head start again but it's gettable if you can go out tomorrow and throw a number up?  
ADAM SCOTT:   I'm sure there's a low number out there with the course being soft now.   Just got to do it.   But everything's got to go right for me, two low ones on the weekend.  
   
 Q.   Two rounds left and Rory the one left out there, does that force your hand a little bit, a bit more aggression at pins maybe than normal?   
ADAM SCOTT:   I think you can.   I'd like to come out with a good rhythm tomorrow.   Certainly was better from tee‑to‑green today; and get it in the fairway just a little bit more often still.   Didn't do too bad today but need to hit a lot of fairways.  
   
 Q.   When the first one went right again, was it hard enough to be like‑‑ watching you warm up, you were hitting it pure on the range.   
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, I don't even know what that was.   I haven't thought about it.   But I hit the next one nice and then I was away, and swing was good.   You know, instead of getting off on the right foot, I got off on the wrong foot.   I had an easy up‑and‑down on 5 and lipped the putt out and got shafted on the next and then crazy bounce.   
But you know, managed to get it back and instead of trying to get it under par, it's two or three shot difference, and that's a big difference.   I had a lot of good looks at putts and missed a few that I would have really needed to make today.   
   
 Q.   I was going to say, I thought you showed good resolve given that you had those breaks, the two bogeys.   You could have had a missed the cut even and you managed to get back into something pretty respectable.   
ADAM SCOTT:   I've just got to go out early and try and get up to what the leaders are at before they even tee off.   I don't know what position I'm in, but at least get up there so that I'm not so far back.   
Then again, it's still a major.   You never know what can happen.   Just because he's playing great today, doesn't mean he's playing great tomorrow and Sunday, and same with everyone else.   There's a lot of pressure on guys leading a major.   
   
 Q.   Knowing the golf course is as soft as it is, does that give you some confidence going into tomorrow?   
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, I feel like it's far more doable here than probably at other venues.   You can play pretty good and just shoot 1‑under if you're not having a good day with the putter, 1‑ or 2‑under.   But if you're having a shot day, you can shoot 8‑ or 9‑under; it's on.   I think over the weekend, someone could potentially break the major scoring record.   
   
 Q.   Good to end with a birdie on last?   
ADAM SCOTT:   Well, I needed it.   It was imperative to get it in the fairway, and I did, and I didn't hit a great shot in.   So I was grinding on a 2‑putt, and pretty happy with that after a long day out there, five and a quarter hours.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT