THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2014
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  ADAM SCOTT: I would say I made my share, but the rest was really good, solid golf.  And obviously I'm on the tougher side of the draw this week.  So far behind after 36, it was maybe a little unrealistic to reel Rory in.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, yeah, just squared it out little bit.  It was just a poor swing.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, I'm disappointed.  But you can get on the wrong side of the draw every now and then.  But I still feel like I probably could have done a better job of limiting the damage on Friday when it was pretty tough out there.  And I did by shooting 1-over.  But I could have shot a few better than that.  And then I could have done better yesterday on the front nine, as well.  It was a slow start when everyone was really going gangbusters. That's the way it is.  Momentum is such a big thing.  And I had a very stagnant 27 holes in the middle of a tournament.  It's tough to recover from.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  ADAM SCOTT: Look, I'm going to give myself a little bit of a break and say it was such a lopsided draw this week, having only a couple guys in the top-25 after two rounds play on my side of the draw, makes it hard to compete when Rory has obviously played two beautiful rounds.  Being nine back in really nice conditions over the next two days, it was very hard to catch up.   Q.  Do you wish they hadn't had a two-tee draw here (inaudible)?  ADAM SCOTT: No, I liked that.  It's just the way it goes.  I've been on the good side, too.  Hopefully I'll be on the good side again sometime, but that's the way it is.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, I played exceptionally well this week.  I really did.  Tee to green has been very, very good.  I've explained the whole thing again.  There was a stretch of hole where I didn't make a share, but the last 27 I did.  I hit the ball beautifully.  Controlled my shots.  Hit some really nice shots in the tough conditions on Friday playing with Justin.  And, yeah, I felt I had the game ready to win.   Q.  Could you have, in the first three rounds that you played, could you have shot 16-under any way in those conditions?  ADAM SCOTT: 16-under would have been a stretch.  But I was just saying that I think I could have found a couple of shots in the second round and certainly a couple of shots in the third round without being very greedy, you know.  We can all imagine shooting 16-under in tough conditions.  But realistically I think there was a couple of shots either round that I let myself slip if I was being critical.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  ADAM SCOTT: I'm motivated now.  I'm a little annoyed that I'm leaving here playing well and not winning, but down to one major at the year it's the last shot at it.  I'm highly motivated to spend the next two weeks getting in the best possible shape I can to kind of do a Rory or a Martin or Bubba Watson and run away with a major.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  ADAM SCOTT: Yeah.  Sure.  It will be fun, yeah.  But every week I'm out here I've got to play at a high level just to do that because the level of golf is incredible.  It's not one guy, it's another guy just tearing up major championships.  It's a high standard at the moment.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  ADAM SCOTT: His play?  Yeah.  Well, he gets in these -- when he's in rhythm he's phenomenal.  He doesn't have weaknesses and he has more strengths than most anyone else.  When he's in rhythm, you'll see him shoot low numbers all the time.  And this course was receptive for him for a couple of days that set him up for the position that he's in now.  And yesterday he finished like a champion to pretty much take a little bit of heat off him today.  I know it looks pretty close now, and it was probably tough for Rory out there today, but that's the advantage of having that extra power that he has.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  ADAM SCOTT: It's hardly frustration with the putter, that's just the way it goes.  I'm ranked 14th on Tour in putting this year.  I'm one of the best putters out there.  It's just ups and downs of a tournament.  To win you've got to be one of the best putters that week.  And I probably wasn't this week, I'd guess.  But I'll worry about switching something when next year ends.   Q.  Next year you're going to worry about it?  ADAM SCOTT: The end of next year.  I don't have anything to worry about, really.   Q.  You don't?  ADAM SCOTT: No, I played pretty good with a short one, as well.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, that's exciting, really exciting.  I mean, if you can't win it here, then why not win it at St. Andrews?  That would be an even better story.   Q.  Week off next week, Adam?  ADAM SCOTT: Yeah.   Q.  Are you going over to the other side of the Atlantic?  ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, I think so.  I'll slowly make my way back.  Give myself a couple of days.  And get into it and then be ready for Akron and the PGA.  Two big weeks.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT