U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2014
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. This is a different style of U.S. Open.  In the grand scheme things, do you think it's a success, they should do it more often?ADAM SCOTT: Well, it's suited to this golf course, obviously.  It's how they want it to play. Next year seems like it might be similar as well.  It looks like quite natural landscape in the outer areas of that Chambers Bay from the photos. I think it was a great week.  I think they prepared the course beautifully for us and it was a good, fair test.  You had to play some pretty good golf to shoot a good score around here.
Q. You said before this week you couldn't put your finger on why you struggled some in U.S. Opens.  Now that you played so steady for four days, do you feel like you have a better sense of what it takes to compete in this tournament?ADAM SCOTT: Well, I know what it takes to compete, just got to play good.  The difference between playing good and playing just okay at a U.S. Open is magnified ten times from a normal tournament.  You can play okay and shoot under par elsewhere.  Here, you play okay, you shoot 4- or 5-over and don't feel like you did too much wrong.  They're just such tough tests.  You've got to make some big putts, and your game really has to be on. Look, it was the most generous week of a U.S. Open off the tee ever.  Those were the biggest fairways you'll get.  So I certainly felt good standing on tee boxes, like I could swing a bit more freely, didn't mean I hit every fairway, but they set this course up nice. I think I know what it takes, I just got to play better.  You've got to really be right on your game.  I would be surprised if many people are winning U.S. Opens not playing their best golf of their life.
Q. Do you take anything away from this thing?  Your best finish in this tournament?ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, I mean, it's a step in the right direction.  I wished I would have been closer.  I felt like my game really came into a good spot today, so it would have been nice to have started the day under par and tried to make something happen.  But you know, it was just a few too many errors throughout the first three rounds.
Q. It's so hard to win a Major, so it might not be realistic to be disappointed.  But anyway, how disappointed are you in your head when you get to the end of the week and haven't won?ADAM SCOTT: You're always a little disappointed.  You stand here and I'm playing some of the best golf of my life and you just don't roll up and win.  Golf's hard.  Winning Majors is hard, otherwise everyone would have a handful of them, wouldn't they? So I've just got to keep doing what I'm doing and I'll try and learn from a couple of things that I did this week that may have been wrong or not the best and try and take that as I go forward in U.S. Opens and also heading into the Open Championship and try and do better.
Q. How do you assess the way that you played this week?  Are you satisfied with the way that you played?ADAM SCOTT: I played pretty good.  I mean, it's hard.  It's hard to put a finger on it.  Until today I felt like I didn't have a lot of great chances at birdie putts.  I think probably most guys would feel the same.  No one was under the hole at 20 feet all day.  It was a very hard set of greens.  It's so hard to have a good run at a lot of putts and be aggressive, so I didn't feel look I made many of them.  I putted great inside 10 feet, which is always good.  But when you're playing well and you feel like you don't have a lot of chances, maybe I've just slightly missed something.  But I'm not disappointed with the way I played.  I felt like all aspects of my game were pretty good.
Q. Pinehurst is unique, but do you like this model going forward for the U.S. Open setup, more towards being able to play from the rough a little bit more?ADAM SCOTT: Absolutely.  I think so.  I said it last night at -- I mean, it tests some skill level of the players and creativity of how much are you going to bite off out of that rough if you've got a bit of an ordinary lie, whereas when it's halfway up your leg and most of us can just chip it out sideways, I don't think that's a great test of skill.
Q. You will use more drivers in this situation also?ADAM SCOTT: Absolutely.  I think as we went on playing this week, everyone played a little more aggressive and realized that you've got to get the ball up there.  And even if you're in there, you take your chance.  Seventy or 80 percent of the time I had reasonable shots at the green this week, which I think was good.  It's still not easy to hit the green out of there, but at least you're moving it forward.
Q. What was it like having the women on the range today and practicing with the women as they got ready?ADAM SCOTT: Obviously a little different, but it wasn't a big deal.  There's always people on the range practicing.
Q. Your schedule between now and The Open Championship?ADAM SCOTT: I'm not playing at all.  I'm off for four weeks.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT