U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 12, 2014
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. If you could assess the day's work out there today?ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, a little disappointed.  I think I played a little better than what I ended up shooting.  Around this kind of golf course, I just put it down to my short game not being spot on today.  A couple of times I missed greens, I didn't get up and down.  It wasn't really that hard to, but you have to scramble hard at a U.S. Open, and especially this one.  But not too much damage done, either.
Q. Most of your birdie chances slipped by, couldn't get those ones that were opportunities?ADAM SCOTT: You're not going to get that many great opportunities.  The few I did, I didn't make today.  I putted okay and really close, but I didn't make the ones that you'd like to.  And you get a few less of them than normal around a course like this. I'm happy with how I hit it generally tee-to-green.  If I can do that the next three days, and sharpen up a little bit on the greens and around, I'll be in great shape by the end of the week.
Q. (Inaudible.)ADAM SCOTT: No, I read them good.  It wasn't really my putting, it was more the couple chips at it from off the green probably didn't get quite close enough. Obviously, 16, I went from bunker to bunker.  I can't really blame it on anything other than just a couple of sloppy runs from off the side of the green.
Q. What is the plan of attack?ADAM SCOTT: It's dictated by conditions.  It was a nice surprise to see the greens soft together.  Much softer than the last three days.  So the scores -- well, the shots in at least reflected that. Tomorrow morning if it's similar I'd like to kind of move in the right direction.  But you know how it's going to be at the end of the week.  We're going to be looking at even par and something around that mark.  It would be nice to move the other way tomorrow and get myself in good shape starting out Saturday.
Q. Was there a feeling today that this is the day to go out and try to make birdie and be a little bit aggressive?ADAM SCOTT: Yeah.  I thought I was more aggressive than I thought I would be.  I got off to a nice start and was hitting a lot of nice shots.  It doesn't take much, you know, a couple of good shots went over greens.  And you hit a good shot and you don't get up and down, it's a big swing for not doing too much wrong.  But that's just the way it is.  I think even though it was a little softer, you can't force it too much.  You don't have that many wedges in your hand.
Q. (Inaudible.)ADAM SCOTT: If the conditions are the same, I'd like the play the course in a similar way I did today.  I think I can shoot five or six shots better if I played the same as I did today.
Q. One of those shots where you thought you got robbed?ADAM SCOTT: I hit a pretty good shot into 7, and it just trickled over.  I hit a pretty good shot into 9 and that just trickled over into quite an ordinary spot.  And that was about it.  I mean, to be fair, I played pretty solid.  And I missed a couple other greens, but those were poor shots.
Q. The shot on 16?ADAM SCOTT: I couldn't stand in the bunker to hit it.  I didn't have a great judge of how much sand was under the ball.  It was a bit of a guess and it came out faster than I would have hoped.  But that's just one of those things.  I was happy to get it up and down for five.
 
 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT