THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE INSURANCE
May 30, 2014
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Another solid round for Adam Scott.   2‑under, 70.   Are you satisfied with that number?  
ADAM SCOTT:   Yes, I guess I feel like I'm playing better than that.   But I didn't necessarily play better than that today.   Everything feels like it's in a good place and it was one of those days where nothing was going that great for me, but I grounded out and got it under par.   
And hopefully won't be too far back going into the weekend.  
   
 Q.   You said something interesting yesterday after the round.   You feel you're swinging better now than last week.   What's different about that?  
ADAM SCOTT:   The flow and just the feeling over the ball.   I feel like I've got a lot of time to hit the ball and I've got a lot of rim on my aim, I'm looking up and it's going exactly where I'm looking, which is a nice feeling most of the time.   
So swing started to fall into a really nice place Sunday.   When you hit a couple of clutch shots under pressure, that's also good for the confidence with the golf swing.   
So it's falling into the spot where I want it.   It's important for me to keep it there on the weekend and then take that into Pinehurst.   
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible) round as the world's No. 1 player.   What is different off the golf course for you?   
ADAM SCOTT:   Well, not too much really.   I certainly enjoyed the last two weeks very much.   Have to work hard again this weekend to try and stay there another week.   
It certainly is a nice feeling to have gotten there, stay there.   I'm trying to do it as long as I can.   
But there's not too much different off the golf course.   All the attention is out here, and I'm certainly enjoying it.  
   
 Q.   Was it tougher out there to score?  
ADAM SCOTT:   It seems so in our group.   But I don't know, the wind was maybe slightly on a different direction today.   And it seemed like I had a club or two longer into most holes.   The first nine this morning maybe it was slightly cooler and the ball wasn't going as fast.   Definitely played a little tougher.   
I had plenty of good golf out there today and didn't take advantage of all my chances, but hopefully I can create some on the weekend and get going.  
   
 Q.   Saying that, you still put a decent number up.   You're in the top 5 right now.   That's got to be pleasing at least.   
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, absolutely.   I'm playing really well.   So I was expecting good things when I teed off yesterday and the same again this morning.   
It was a little disappointing not to kind of take advantage the pure greens and roll everything in, but I hung in there and made a couple of good saves and made a couple good putts and finished well.   
So going into tomorrow, hopefully I'll be within shouting distance and get myself into contention on Sunday.  
   
 Q.   How hard is it to be this consistent?   You lead the cuts made, you're obviously No. 1 now.   How hard is it to quantify for us to keep your game at that level?  
ADAM SCOTT:   It's been a lot of work over the last couple of years to play this consistent.   It was a couple years' work to bring my game to the level where I really wanted it in the big events.   And then to maintain it there, you've got to continue to have that drive.   
And I've said it for a couple of years:   This is my window of opportunity, and I don't know how long that will be.   So I'm going to try to make the most of it while I'm there.   
And it's just been a lot of hours at home constantly trying to improve and trying to be smart about it so it's not as hard as it really is.  
   
 Q.   This course really stays this dry for four days in a row, have you thought about how tough and the teeth this course is going to have over the weekend?  
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, if it does stay dry, it's going to be a great test over the weekend because we're going to see the greens get a little fiery.   And the scores haven't been that hot yet and they haven't got fiery, so we could be in for a real test.   
And it would be fantastic to see it stay that way because this tournament certainly deserves four good days of weather.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT