CROWNE PLAZA INVITATIONAL AT COLONIAL
May 25, 2014
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Adam, a great round of 66 today.   It wasn't as easy as it might have looked when you look at the scorecard.   I'm a huge fan of self talk, and what players say.   What did Adam Scott say to Adam Scott say after the double there?  
ADAM SCOTT:   Well, it's a tricky course.   And 10 and 11 are a good chance to get off to a good start on the back nine.   Without a doubt, there's no gimme birdies on this golf course.   It's tricky.   You've got to be in good position, hit good shots and make putts.   And I felt I was playing well.   I just had to limit the mistakes on the back nine and I did a pretty good job of that.   I had a few decent looks coming in and couldn't quite get one to go.  
   
 Q.   Also you seemed to stay patient.   And I think this is a golf course that requires that kind of patience, isn't it?  
ADAM SCOTT:   I think generally it does, especially for myself.   I didn't get to hit the driver much here.   And I scaled back little bit.   
It's a good test for me because it's a very different kind of golf course.   One I enjoy very much.   We don't play this style very much.   And I see my game kind of shaping up nicely.  
   
 Q.   As it stands right now it's looking like a two‑man playoff with you and Jason Dufner, absent something special from David Toms coming in.   What do you plan to do with this hour or so that we're going to have before you can have a playoff?  
ADAM SCOTT:   I think I'll nip down to the range and try to stay loose.   It shouldn't be a problem.   But I think I'll stay on my feet and hopefully get to play some more golf.  
   
 Q.   For you on the front nine on Thursday you were 4‑over and you came back.   You doubled 9 today.   You came back.   It has to be a gratifying week.   
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, absolutely.   I've kind of so far achieved everything I want out of it.   Hopefully I get to play a little more golf and have a chance to win.  
But, you know, it's 72 holes and you can't react poorly to a bad shot or a bad hole or even a bad nine, because there are a lot more in front of you.   I just had to keep plugging away.   Today on the range, I really felt my swing fall into the place I like to have it.   And it's been probably since the Masters that I've felt that good with my swing, so that was a nice feeling starting out today.  
   
 Q.   The putt you hit on 14, about 39 feet, pretty exciting.   Put you at 9‑under par.   
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, those are the ones you need out here.   It's a very hard golf course to hit it close all the time, demanding, pins tucked, and you need a bonus every now and then.   And that was it.   A shame I couldn't get one the last few to fall.   But like I said hopefully we'll play some more.  
   
 Q.   And now you're going to be waiting for the playoff.   
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, it's a good spot to be in.   I'll go hit a couple of balls and try to stay loose and try and make something happen out there.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, it's probably not the first time it's happened.   But it's 72 holes, fortunately, not just a nine hole tournament.   It's a long week.   
I felt like I was playing well, but that first nine holes wasn't reflective of really how I was playing.   But slowly built up into some rhythm and felt very good out there today.  
   
 Q.   What was different (inaudible.)  
ADAM SCOTT:   Maybe a little bit.   And probably more that I put on myself to play well.   I felt like it had been a while since I really played in contention, which was at the Masters briefly.   And I wanted to get back in the swing of things, so to speak.   So I put a little pressure on myself.   It was a fun experience.   So hopefully get to live it for another week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT