CROWNE PLAZA INVITATIONAL AT COLONIAL
May 24, 2014
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Adam, I would have to say life is pretty good for you.   Recently married, congratulations on that.   You wake up Monday morning, you're world No. 1, and a bogey‑free 66 today wasn't all bad either.   
ADAM SCOTT:   No, it was a good round today, absolutely.   I'm very happy with where everything is at.   It feels like a couple years of hard work has certainly paid off, but want to keep it going.  
   
 Q.   How do you do that?   How do you play Adam Scott golf without putting extra pressure on yourself to play like the world No. 1?   
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, I think that's exactly what I'm trying to do at the moment.   I've just got to kind of keep everything in balance.   That's what happens when you play good and adjust.   Everything's changing all the time,   expectations of myself and everything around as well.   So just trying to get in a rhythm back out on the course.   
I might have been forcing it a bit hard the last few weeks to play too perfect, you know, and that's not how you play golf, as you know.   So today was nice.   It was a good, solid round.   I would have loved to have gotten a couple more and been closer at the end of the day.  
   
 Q.   Let's talk about tomorrow.   You're certainly there with an opportunity that is going to take a superb round of golf for you tomorrow.   How do you approach that?   
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, I mean, we're getting such good conditions out here.   I thought it could have been the low one today.   I got off to the right start and just couldn't keep it going.   I lost my momentum on 11 when I didn't get up and down.   It's a tough course.   They don't give away birdies out here, so it's all got to happen tomorrow.   But it's possible.   
The greens are receptive, so if you're hitting good shots, you can get it close.  
   
 Q.   Adam, you talked about getting off to a quick start in round three.   You did that with three birdies in your first four holes.   What was your feeling like particularly after that iron shot to 4 that left you with six feet and your third birdie in four holes?  
ADAM SCOTT:   I was feel going.   It's exactly how I wanted to come out today.   The swing was in a good spot right from the git‑go.   That's what I've been trying to do, just free it up this week and swing and hit my shots and I did.   Everything went according to plan on the front.   Unfortunately, just couldn't keep it going for the 18 and lost my momentum when I didn't get up and down, so I shot for birdie.   It was a tough stretch in front of you, and I just couldn't get one to go.  
   
 Q.   For you now, how close do you feel you have to be to the lead at the end of the day to make sure you have a legitimate chance?   
ADAM SCOTT:   It's going to be tough.   I'd hoped to be within five, but there are going to be a lot of people between me and the lead, I would think.   Conditions are perfect, but there is still an opportunity to have a good score out there, and I expect some of the guys in the top to play well.  
   
 Q.   Can you comment on the round today?   
ADAM SCOTT:   Again, we had perfect conditions out there today.   Probably the least amount of wind of all the days so far and greens are still receiving shots.   So there was an opportunity for a low one, and I got off to a good start, I just couldn't keep it going the whole way around.  
   
 Q.   How much are you paying attention to (No Audio) versus the world No. 1 type thing?   Do you think about that at all?   
ADAM SCOTT:   No, I mean, I can only worry about my golf here.   Worrying about that isn't going to help me at all.   It's all very tight.   We know that.   I'm happy to have gotten to No. 1.   I hope it's not such a short stay.  
   
 Q.   You were bogey‑free, but what do you think the momentum kind of let up on you today?   
ADAM SCOTT:   Probably on 11 I had an opportunity to get it up‑and‑down on the green and try for birdie and I didn't.   Even though it's still a par, it's almost like giving one away there.   If you don't pick up one in the next couple holes, your momentum's gone.   It's just a tough course to force it on.   There were some tucked away pins today, and you had to be a little careful.   I couldn't get a putt to drop at the end, so a little disappointed not to be a couple better than I was today.  
   
 Q.   Is the extra attention, fan attention, media attention, does that wear on you for a while after this week since it's such a big week for you, or have you enjoyed it so far?   
ADAM SCOTT:   I think I've enjoyed everything that's kind of come my way over the last couple months.   You know, certainly winning The Masters changed the amount of attention that I received at golf courses, and that's over a year ago now.   So I feel quite comfortable, and it's all managed pretty nicely and everyone's been very fair with me, so I'm thankful for that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT