CROWNE PLAZA INVITATIONAL AT COLONIAL
May 23, 2014
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Three birdies on your back nine really turned the tide on your day.   Tell me how you kept your patience until your iron play really stepped up and carried you.   
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, well, I needed it to.   I was a little shaky off the tee on the front side and I didn't really get in great position to make anything, and when I did, I missed.   You know, I just started hitting some good shots on the back nine.   12 started things off, and felt really good coming in.   Hopefully it's a sign of what's to come on the weekend.   It would be nice to play 18 holes with a little momentum rather than just nine like the last couple days.  
   
 Q.   Overall obviously you'd love to be in a closer position, but at six behind, what is your thought about your ability to still win this golf tournament?  
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, tomorrow is the important day for me now in this position.   I've got to go have a low 60s tomorrow, somewhere like that, and try and get myself in with a realistic shot on Sunday.   I think it would be hard to expect two rounds in the low 60s out here, so it would be nice to post something tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Talk about today; not the round you'd like, but good enough to get you where you need to be.   Talk about what went on today.   
ADAM SCOTT:   It was a pretty good round.   I mean, you can't walk off too disappointed shooting in the 60s around here, and I needed to do that.   At least one thing was accomplished today, and I'm going to get to play this great track for another couple days, and hopefully in those days kind of achieve what my goal was here, kind of find my rhythm on the course.   I've had it for a few holes each day but not 18.   It would be nice to play 36 holes with a bit of momentum.  
   
 Q.   Do you like this track?  
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, it's a lovely golf course, really, really fun to play.  
   
 Q.   How is it playing?  
ADAM SCOTT:   It's playing pretty nice.   The greens are maybe a little bit on the soft side because the weather stayed a little overcast and I think they held their moisture, but if any sun comes out or wind, they'll dry out and it'll be a big test.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel the pressure right now coming in with the No.1 ranking and then obviously seeing where you're at today heading into the second round?  
ADAM SCOTT:   Not really, no.   Just trying to play my own game.   This course doesn't necessarily set up best for my strength, but it's a challenge nonetheless, and I'm enjoying it.   Hopefully I can put a good round in tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Does it feel good to make the cut?  
ADAM SCOTT:   It always feels good to make the cut.   I didn't want to go home for the weekend.   I'm going to enjoy the next couple days.  
   
 Q.   Were you aware of what the projected cut line was after 9?   
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, I was assuming it would be even or 1‑over because the boards are all out there and you can see.   I looked, so yeah, you can tell.   
   
 Q.   You felt like you certainly had to turn it around on the back nine?  
ADAM SCOTT:   Well, I had to do something.   I've been in that situation a million times, and you've just got to keep playing golf.   It's no time to panic.   There's nine holes, and nothing is stopping me from shooting 6‑under that nine I felt, and I managed to get a few, so I need to get a few more tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   The fact that you're only six back, it's a pretty good spot to be in, considering.   
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, it's not the worst, but tomorrow for me is the important day here this week.   For me to have a chance, I'm going to have to put it into gear and try and get within three or four, really, to have a chance going into Sunday, I think, because it's going to be pretty bunched.   It is bunched.   You know, you can't expect to go out and shoot in the low 60s and just come from way back here.   Think the course is just too demanding and we're not seeing those really, really low scores.  
   
 Q.   Have you ever seen a golf ball strike a bird in flight?   Your playing partner I think hit one.   
ADAM SCOTT:   I didn't even see where it was.   Where was that?   
   
 Q.   I think it was on 17.   
ADAM SCOTT:   No, I did not even see it.   Poor bird.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT