MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2014
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Good morning, ladies and gentlemen.   We are pleased to welcome back to Augusta National, our defending champion, Adam Scott.   This will be Adam's 13th Masters appearance, one year after amazing golf fans all over the world witnessed his stellar performance down the stretch in last year's Masters, and having his destiny fulfilled as the first Australian to slip on the green jacket. 
After his triumph here at Augusta, Adam continued a memorable 2013 with Top‑5 finishes in both the British Open and PGA Championship, and his 10th career PGA victory at The Barclays. 
Before we open up to questions, I understand your mom and dad are here, and welcome, and also understand that you had a chance to play with your dad on Friday and Saturday here at Augusta. 
Before we take any questions, will you share with us what that experience was like and how it feels being here a year after holing that great putt in the rain on the 10th green.
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, thank you.   It's incredible coming back, something I've been looking forward to so much, and to have the opportunity to bring Dad here this year and get to play the course, he said to me would be the highlight of his golfing life and I think it lived up to his expectations.   No doubt he had a great time, and so did I. 
And after winning this tournament last year and everyone asking me what the best thing about it was, I always felt like there would be things in the future that would be so great about coming back here for the rest of my life, and again, playing with my dad on Friday and Sunday before the Masters is one of those great things that winning this tournament has afforded me. 
So I think I've got lots of those memories to look forward to, and that's why this place is just so unique.   But it's going to be an exciting week for me. 

Q.   The Australians that have won after you on the TOUR until the last 12 months, all say that your win here is the thing that really gave them inspiration, motivation.   What do you make of that?
ADAM SCOTT:   Well, I definitely can understand that feeling, because, you know, we're a close‑knit group of guys out there from Australia.   It's motivation for all of us.   To see someone else doing well is maybe a kick in the pants or something to keep pushing you along.   I definitely have had that feeling myself, seeing other guys be successful out here.
It's a good thing.   We all know each other so well, and know that everyone's putting in a lot of hard work.   I think it just gives them that bit of belief that it can happen and they can do it, as well, and the last few weeks on TOUR has been incredible watching all the guys win and pick up spots here.   So the Australian contingent is strong. 

Q.   Couple questions on playing with your father.   Did you recreate any of the scenes at 18 or 10, including the, "Come on, Aussie" cry, and how many strokes a side did you give him? 
ADAM SCOTT:   We kept the match all friendly and just really enjoyed the day, so there wasn't too much match play going on.   But absolutely we stood there on 10 and hit the putt.   The pin wasn't quite in the position that we imagined. 
18 was very similar because we played after the Drive, Chip & Putt, and it was in a very similar position, and we hit that and talked about shots.   I think my dad's been coming here for all these years I've been playing, so it was nice for him to stand in the middle of the fairway rather than out on the edge and see the course from there. 
I think he also developed a pretty good appreciation for how good some of the guys are out here, chipping and putting around these greens. 

Q.   What's it like coming down Magnolia Lane, walking on the premises with a green jacket on, and also going to the former Champions Locker Room?
ADAM SCOTT:   All of it's pretty good stuff, Bernie.   It's something I've really been looking forward to, but as the last week came by, I also realized it would be time for me to bring the green jacket back and leave it here maybe.   So that motivated me to work harder that last week at home and try and get myself into some kind of form that can maybe go back‑to‑back and keep the jacket for another year. 
But it's been, like I said, I think all the great things I've been looking forward to are going to happen this week and it's going to happen for another year and another year and another year. 
Going up in the Champions Locker Room has been a dream come true.   It's a lot of fun to see the guys up there and see them hanging out around the tables is quite an incredible experience for me. 
I want to try to enjoy all that, but I also want to really get my head into playing well this week because I think I'm in good form.

Q.   There are many responsibilities as the Masters Champion, and are you looking forward to finally getting inside the ropes and competing? 
ADAM SCOTT:   I think I'll be ready to get inside the ropes and compete.   I'm trying to balance everything the best I can and enjoy it.   Like I said, it's something I've been looking forward to this whole year, thinking about tonight, the Champions Dinner, and I just can't wait to be up in that room and see what that holds.   So many new experiences, it's really exciting.
I think once we pass tonight and it's down to Wednesday, the nerves and anticipation will build and I'll feel like it's just another major championship to go and play. 

Q.   What's the state of your game right now?   How do you feel you're playing? 
ADAM SCOTT:   I feel I'm playing really well.   I really like the last couple week's work I've done.   The game was there at Bay Hill and I've just tried to keep it there, and I felt like it was getting to a place where it needed to contend here.   Hopefully I've sharpened it up a little more since then, but I'm definitely feeling a lot more comfortable on this golf course over the last few years, and certainly winning.   And the confidence you take from that helps, as well.   So I look forward to playing Thursday. 

Q.   First of all, whose locker are you sharing up in the Champions Locker Room, and secondly, it's a short but illustrious list of guys who have been able to repeat here.   Why do you think it's been so hard for players to repeat, and is it just all of the extra stuff that you do this week, something that maybe is a distraction that makes it hard? 
ADAM SCOTT:   I share a locker with Gary Player, which is nice for me.   He gets a lot of mail, so there's not a lot of room for myself in there (laughter), but we make it work.   That's okay.   My stuff's kind of scattered around a bit on the floor.   I don't know, I haven't seen him here this week, so I don't know how he feels about that yet. 
And as far as the extra responsibility, I don't know.   I don't know if there are answers to why only a couple guys have managed to repeat their performance.   It's just one of those things.   I certainly don't think any of the responsibilities are so draining that it's going to cost you having a good week out on the golf course.   It's just one of those things; in time, I'm sure more and more guys will, but at the moment, it's only a couple, but I'd like to add my name to that list this week. 

Q.   Just take us through the dinner and what you picked and why you picked it and how you think it will be received. 
ADAM SCOTT:   Well, I haven't really gone into details with anyone because I didn't‑‑ keep it a surprise or not, but it's definitely going to be all Australian barbecue themed. 
I kind of picked nothing too exotic, because I didn't think any of the other guys would appreciate it, kangaroo and crocodile, or anything like that.   It's along those lines of surf and turf, and it will be off the barbie, which is what I like.   I would love to have served some meat pies at the cocktail hour, but it couldn't be arranged. 
Next time, if I get another chance to do it, I'd love to serve some meat pies.

Q.   No Moreton Bay bugs?
ADAM SCOTT:   They're here.   The bugs are here.

Q.   There's been a lot of talk, people love the idea that you're going to serve Moreton Bay bugs.   Can I ask why you decided on them and how do you think they are going to go down? 
ADAM SCOTT:   I picked the bugs because I like them.   You know, they are one of my favorite foods back home.   I thought it would be nice to have something really local to serve.   Hopefully the other guys can get past the name and enjoy a nice bit of our seafood from home.   But I think they are going to be pretty happy with what I serve up tonight, and particularly the wine. 

Q.   How strong is the motivation to get to world No. 1?   That's something you're pretty close to now and have a real chance. 
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, there's absolutely motivation, but the motivation is just to play well.   I feel like my game is at a point where if I play well, I have got a chance to win this tournament.   That's my goal that week.   And the follow on from that would be world No. 1.   I've had a couple goes at that the last couple times I've played and it hasn't worked out.   I just think you just have to keep playing well consistently to be No. 1. 
If I can keep chipping away at it, whether I win or not this week and get to No. 1, my goal is just to keep playing well.   It's not‑‑ I don't tee up thinking I'm going to try to be world No. 1.   It just works out.   You've just got to keep playing well.   And for the guys who have been world No. 1, it's been a process to get there and that's where I'm at, at the moment, and I'm getting close.   But it will take four great rounds this week. 

Q.   Just talking to Bowdo and Jones here, as well, with John Senden's win earlier, they all say your success and what you've achieved over the last 12 months has inspired them to work harder and get the job done.   Do you feel a sense of pride being that guy that has sort of changed the shape of Australian golf this last 12 months? 
ADAM SCOTT:   I don't know that I've changed golf in Australia, but I think it all happens in cycles and it comes along every once in awhile, and there's a lift. 
Geoff Ogilvy won the U.S. Open eight years ago and there was a huge lift, and before that it was Elkington and Norman and these guys.   Last year was my turn. 
I know all these guys well, and they have all got the ability to do it.   Like I said, it's motivation when you see the other guys that you know well doing it; that you're certainly very pleased for them but you also have that thing where you believe it can be yourself doing it. 
You know, to see Matt Jones win and Bowdo win, who are guys that I grew up with, was a great feeling for me because I just‑‑ I don't know, they finally got the belief that they were that good, and that's what I said to Matt.   I think he should believe how good he is.   He's a great ball‑striker and he's finally cracked it and he should just carry on now and use the momentum. 
Yeah, if I keep doing what I'm doing, then hopefully more and more guys will keep playing well.   But I think the state of Australian golf is strong and it's good to see guys winning because they are good enough to. 

Q.   What does it mean that Tiger's not playing? 
ADAM SCOTT:   It's a big loss for the tournament any time a world No. 1 is not going to play.   It's a huge loss.   But it's the nature of sports, and guys get injured and it's an unfortunate timing for that.   And you know, like I said, it's going to be missing the top player in the game this week. 
But, as every year here, this event produces something special no matter what.   It just has a way of doing it, and it's not going to involve Tiger this year, but it will involve someone else and it will be a memorable event anyway. 

Q.   Have you ever gone to other Majors and looked at someone as the guy to beat that week, and as the highest‑ranked player in the field and defending champion, do you think people are looking at you that way? 
ADAM SCOTT:   I think in the past, certainly that's been easy to go to events and look at a guy, who is the guy to beat.   I think that scope has kind of broadened now.   There's a lot of guys with the talent and the form that aren't necessarily standing out above others, but on their week, they are going to be tough to beat.   You know, there's probably a list of 20 guys you could go through here, but if they play well, they are going to be there on Sunday at some point. 
That's how I see it this week.   I'd like to think my name is one of those guys, and I feel like I'm going to be one of the guys who has got a chance if I play well this week. 

Q.   Have you ever felt that way at a major? 
ADAM SCOTT:   I think over the last couple years, I could definitely say I've been quietly confident coming to the Majors.   I've seen my form improve and the way I've played the Majors get better and better, and know if I execute the way I want, that I'd be a chance, and I've been a chance over the last few years.   So yeah, I've felt that way a couple of times. 

Q.   You say the scope broadened, and Rory suggested that people like to see a dominant player in golf.   Your reaction? 
ADAM SCOTT:   I think we are used to seeing a dominant player in golf, and maybe so.   I think most sports like seeing dominance, the extraordinary or the exceptional.   We certainly got used to seeing that in golf, and it's not easy to do. 
From my own experience, I'm at the highest level I've ever been at, and I'm not dominant at all in respect to where Tiger dominated the game for so long.   So to get to that level is remarkable, and it's good that people can appreciate that dominance and like to see it. 
I think we all strive for it, but it's just not that easy to do.   So I don't disagree with Rory at all.   I think people do like seeing dominance because it's exceptional.   I mean, watching Tiger play the way he's played through his career is quite unbelievable. 

Q.   You are playing with Matthew Fitzpatrick Thursday and Friday, what do you remember from your first visit here that you can help him overcome his stage fright, and can you imagine when you were 19, what it would have been like to play with a Masters Champion?
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, it's going to be exciting for him.   I've seen him around the grounds a little bit this week and also two weeks ago when I was here.   And I was sitting in the clubhouse, watching him tee off for the very first time on the first hole and he had someone filming him tee off.   And I can imagine how good he must have been feeling as a 19‑year‑old playing the Masters.
For me, I got to play my first two rounds ever with Fuzzy Zoeller in the tournament, so he was whistling off the first tee (laughter).   I wasn't quite sure what to make of it, but it was certainly a little more light‑hearted than I thought. 
Unfortunately for Matthew, I'm not going to be whistling off the first tee (laughter), so he'll have to find another way to calm down.   I think for him, he's just got to enjoy the experience and hopefully it inspires him to keep working hard and come back many, many times. 

Q.   You'll go out this afternoon with Oliver Goss and Bowdo, talking about the camaraderie, how much do you give away given that you are competing with these guys and do you feel a responsibility when you're still at your best of giving information out there? 
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, it's a bit of a‑‑ you've got to be a little careful not to cross the line, only from their point.   Because when I first played here, I had no clue about the golf course and had a good week and finished ninth, and I only got a little bit of information.
I think too much could be overwhelming for them, so I'm certainly not going to just give them verbal diarrhea about everything I've learned about the course over my time here.   But I think there are a couple good tips that I've taken from past champions when I've had the chance to play practice rounds over the years.   I won't give them too much unless they want to know. 
I mean, I think going in a little blind is not a bad thing here.   If they go out and play well, they are just going to see all their good shots be rewarded, and that's a nice feeling to have and not focus on the trouble over here or the trouble over there and avoid that and go out with a very defensive, negative approach.   I think they just need to go and play, and if they play well, they are going to have a great week. 

Q.   You mentioned feeling comfortable here the last few years, curious when that might have changed or what brought that comfort level? 
ADAM SCOTT:   2010 was the big change for me around here.   I played beautiful tee‑to‑green, the best I had since my first year. 
Every other year, I had really struggled tee‑to‑green, and I started feeling comfortable on the course and knowing where to hit it, and maybe my preparation had somewhat improved from 2009, kind of gave me a little more confidence coming here that year. 
And working with Brad, my coach, we felt I played really well from tee‑to‑green and saw the good shots getting rewarded again, aiming at the right places and managing myself well. 
After that, I felt like I had the ability again to compete around this golf course, and then I came back in 2011 and had a close call, and from there, it's been all positive.   So 2010 stands out in my mind as the year, just purely from playing nicely around the golf course and not being in really awkward positions all week. 

Q.   Has all the attention and the higher profile of the last 12 months made it harder or easier for you to be the golfer that you want to be? 
ADAM SCOTT:   I think I've certainly had to manage my time a little better, been a conscious effort at golf tournaments, and that's been fine.   I've just tried to do the best I can and still make sure I get enough time to practice and everything.   But certainly there's been a couple conscious decisions in the way I prepare and practice and play at the golf course to make sure that I'm getting in what I need to do.   So, yeah, there's been a little change but there's been nothing bad about that. 
It's been incredible to see the reception I get every week I play since being a Masters Champion.   It's been a real buzz for me 12 months to be welcomed at all the golf courses I'm at. 

Q.   A lot has been made to your message to Justin after the U.S. Open last year about it being your time; what do you think realistically is the prime now?   Do you think maybe 12, 15 more years is reasonable? 
ADAM SCOTT:   I hope so.   I would love it to be that   (laughter).
I think everyone gets a window, and you might get more than one.   But you know, my window of opportunity, I really think is right now, and I don't know when it will close.   So I just have to keep going as hard as I can right now, and if it lasts until I'm in my 40s, then that's great.   I think I'll have a lot of chances to win golf tournaments. 
But there have only been‑‑ it's only the greats who have managed to do that, like Phil and Ernie, in this generation that have managed to win Majors that way.   I think if I can just do what I'm doing right now, and hopefully I'm doing the right things and that keeps the window open for another year, and then I'll try to keep it open another year.

Q.   Would you describe the reverence for this tournament in Australia? 
ADAM SCOTT:   It's always been a big deal in Australia.   I think I spoke of watching this tournament as a kid at home, and it was a big deal watching Greg play here and the other Australians play here, as well.   I think of Craig Parry being close one year, maybe '94, he was in with a chance over the week.   But because Greg was such a big influence on Australian golf and an icon as a sportsman at home, everyone was tuned into the Masters.   It wasn't just the golfers.   It makes the news at home outside of sports, that's for sure. 
So it's a big deal and I'm sure it's going to get great coverage this week, and I think it will get even more coverage now after the last three weeks on TOUR, four weeks on TOUR, having three more Aussies in the field is fantastic. 

Q.   Do you have an Eisenhower Tree story? 
ADAM SCOTT:   No, I'm sorry to disappoint, I really don't have anything.   I've managed to hit over it nicely the last few years.   But I think it still looks like a pretty tough hole, even without it, that fairway is pretty narrow at the top of the hill there.

Q.   What's the logistics of the bugs?   Are they coming from Brisbane? 
ADAM SCOTT:   They are.   They are legitimate bugs   (laughter), the real deal.   I'm not going to serve up anything second rate tonight.   I've got to go all‑out to impress these guys. 

Q.   And Mum's Pavlova? 
ADAM SCOTT:   We'll see how the chefs do with Mum's Pav.   That is going to be maybe a little trickier for them.   Hopefully they get it right. 

Q.   It's her recipe? 
ADAM SCOTT:   Yes.
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you and good luck this week.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT