SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 10, 2014
Adam Scott
Benji Weatherly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What is it like having this guy on the bag with you after having a professional caddie on your side for so many years?
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, it's a different vibe out there for sure, but it's been a lot of fun.   Benji has been unbelievable.   He's done so good, and he's really getting a knack for it.   He talked me down on 18 today, he's like, it's not driver, it's 3‑wood.   So he put me in the fairway.   He's really getting the hang of it.

Q.   I saw you clapping a few times when other guys were making putts.   What's it like out there for you? 
BENJI WEATHERLY:   It's the most fun you could ever have.   I have no nerves because for one, he's so good, it's embarrassing.   Like every single shot is what you see on SportsCenter, especially that last one.   It's unbelievable.

Q.   We talked to Kelly Slater earlier.   Benji Weatherly would be a professional surfer and a very good one at that.   Rumor has it you're a 7 golfer; is that true? 
BENJI WEATHERLY:   Kelly doesn't think so because I don't keep the cards after every round, but I just like to think so.

Q.   Is it nerve wracking at all to have a guy on your bag who literally has never caddied at any level whatsoever? 
ADAM SCOTT:   No, not at all.   He was unreal earlier this week.   He really trained up, and he's taking it serious.   We're having a lot of fun, but he's taking it serious and he knows it's serious to me, and it's a fun opportunity I think for both of us.

Q.   I took one for you there on the par‑3, 4th.   I lost it in the sky, but it dropped and hit my hand but you got it up‑and‑down there.   You made a couple putts to save par there and kept it going?
ADAM SCOTT:   Well, you have to around here.   I just don't think anyone can get it around this course consistently without scrambling.   It is really tough to keep it in play all day and under holes and not be in this gnarly rough.   A couple good saves here and there throughout the round kept me moving in the right direction.

Q.   How difficult was it to keep the ball in the fairway as you guys got through this round of golf?
ADAM SCOTT:   It's really tough because the fairways are narrow and they're firm, so 3‑woods are going like 310 with a little breeze helping, and there are a fair few doglegs out here, so you really have to scale back to make your chances of hitting a fairway high, and I feel like I'm playing well and I want to attack, so it's a real balancing act.

Q.   Looked like you were having a lot of fun today with your caddie Benji.   Do you think he's relaxed you even more so?
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, he's been great.   I mean, I'm so happy with how well he's done out there for two days.   I mean, it's probably a little intimidating coming out here, but all the other guys, we had a perfect group for it, a couple really good guys, so we had a lot of fun, and they enjoyed it, as well.

Q.   Got a little surfing in earlier in the week?
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, there's been a little surfing going on, but it's down to business now. 

Q.   What kind of break was it to get a little bit of relief away from the fan tent?   That was kind of a scruffy lie you had. 
ADAM SCOTT:   It was a scruffy lie, yeah, for sure.   I mean, it was a good break.   Not only the lie but also I got a little less slope involved in the pitch, too.   But it's not a good spot to be down there. 

Q.   You had some good chips on the back, though. 
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, I mean, really.   The short game has been good today and yesterday, and it needs to be around here because it's just‑‑ you can hit some good drives that end in the rough, and then it's so hard to hit a green, so you've got to scramble.

Q.   13 you hit it through the fairway.   Is that the one that you hit it‑‑
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah.

Q.   I think the approach was a little better there, and it just never stopped?
ADAM SCOTT:   It just never stopped, but that's just the way it is.   I mean, I had 200 something yards, I hit an 8‑iron, and you go over the green.   It's really hard to judge.   It's impossible to judge.   You're always kind of scrambling once you're off the short grass here. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
ADAM SCOTT:   I did, yeah.   Just got a little stuck in the fringe.   I didn't like the idea of flubbing my chip right in front of them.   It was not a nice lie.

Q.   Any difference in how you're playing this week and last?
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, I've got to say, I think I'm swinging the clubs a little better off the tee, but you got away with that last week because it's so wide, but it certainly asks different things of your game.   I haven't had to hit too many wedge shots, but my wedge play this week has been a lot better than last week, slightly easier in these kind of conditions with flat shots and greens that are kind of more what we're accustomed to.   I'm pleased to see the wedge game wasn't as shabby as it was last week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT