SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 12, 2014
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What were you thinking when you made the turn in 30?  
ADAM SCOTT:   Well, I was liking my position there.   I was making today a lot of fun, but I didn't play very well on the next nine.   I just was in the rough too much, unfortunately.   It's just such a hard course to get it going around here.   
   
 Q.   Does it feel like you had a productive two weeks in Hawai'i?  
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, I guess so.   It gives me something to think about for the next few weeks while I'm off and get to work on, but I kind of got my season started, so we're up and running now.  
   
 Q.   You're headed to the Big Island Kelly was saying, a golf/surf trip?  
ADAM SCOTT:   Well, yeah.   I mean, it's not just the boys.   There are so many people going, I think, it's probably all of (inaudible), but it should be fun for a few days.   I'm going for a couple days.  
   
 Q.   How much do you work on your game between now and when you show up at Honda, and will you make any‑‑ during that time will you work on making change to equipment because so much stuff is out there now?  
ADAM SCOTT:   I'll work on my game a lot.   I think there's plenty of work on after the last couple weeks, and equipment‑wise, I don't know that I'm‑‑ there's too much.   Maybe some wedges I think is all I'll be looking at.   I know there's a new line of Vokey wedges out, and I'll be trying them and trying to match them up to what I have, and if they're good, I'll put them in.   I don't think I'll be fiddling around with equipment too much.   There's nothing too major being put on me right now.   
   
 Q.   You haven't played here in a couple years.   What made you want to put this back on your schedule?  
ADAM SCOTT:   Well, it kind of goes hand in hand with when I go to Hyundai, so as long as I'm in that, I'll most likely be coming here.   I think only once I've played over there and not come here.   I like the two weeks here.   I like this golf course.   It's a real challenge for me.   It doesn't play to my strengths at all, but it's a good test of patience for me, and you have to really hit a lot of good shots to have a good score around here.   
I think it gives you a good indication of where your game is at.   
   
 Q.   There was like four or five guys tied at 13‑under.   Is that surprising that it's turning into that kind of situation?  
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, I mean, it's just the kind of course, like I said, it's hard to really get it going, get running, and I'm not surprised it's bunched, and playing under the pressure of the lead, I think it's very tricky to really‑‑ I'd expect one of them to kind of finish it off, but it's so firm and fiery, it's just to hard to get it in the fairway, and to guarantee hitting a fairway, you have to sacrifice so much yardage, maybe 20 or 30 yards, and you've got to weigh up whether an 8‑iron or a 5‑iron is a good option going into the green.   It makes you think, this course.   It's a tricky one to figure out.  
   
 Q.   It doesn't play to any of your strengths, does it?  
ADAM SCOTT:   No, no, it's there for the guy who gets it around the best sometime and probably makes a lot of putts.   I had a bit of a rough week on the greens this week.  
   
 Q.   Do you wish you'd see more of these kind of venues on TOUR?   You're a long hitter but it seems like it creates a situation that's more interesting in some ways.   
ADAM SCOTT:   Potentially, yes, and no.   I think I like seeing firm and fast, and this is maybe slightly shorter than what we're used to on TOUR.   But any firm and fast course is a good golf course, much better than the other way where the ball just doesn't run out at all.   You really need to control your golf ball around here.   
I'm happy not to see this rough for another year, though.   It is crazy.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT