PGA GRAND SLAM OF GOLF
October 15, 2013
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JUSTIN ROSE67 (-4)
  JASON DUFNER69 (-2)
  ADAM SCOTT70 (-1)
  PADRAIG HARRINGTON74 (+3)

JULIUS MASON:   After the first round of the PGA Grand Slam of Golf, and minus one with a 70 on the board, Adam, if you can please talk a little about your round today and we'll go through your card. 
ADAM SCOTT:   It was a tale of two nine, played really nice on the front nine, birdied two, 4‑under.   Then just like the other guys, had a few struggles on the back, and made the worst of it, really, unfortunately missed a few putts and a bad break on 16. 
But I felt like I played pretty well.   I probably should have had a couple better.   Have to go out there tomorrow and light it up. 
JULIUS MASON:   Talk about your birdies on the front nine.
ADAM SCOTT:   2 is a driver, 3‑iron and a couple putts.   I hit a 9‑iron on the third in pretty close, probably eight feet. 
The fifth hole was a driver and a lob‑wedge from 64 yards and probably a 12‑footer there. 
Then 7 was a driver, 7‑iron and two putts from the fringe, 20 feet away.
Bogey on 14 was a 3‑putt from the front fringe.   It was 70 feet probably.   Banged the first one past. 
16, 5‑iron pitched on the right of the green and kicked in to the back right lip of the bunker on to the lip, which I hit in the rough and went under the next one and managed to get it up‑and‑down for double. 

Q.   How difficult would you have assessed that second shot at 16?   It looked impossible from some angles. 
ADAM SCOTT:   It was impossible to get it near the hole.   I was trying to hit it 50 feet long up near Justin's ball.   But misjudged it a little bit and it came out so soft.   Went under the ball somehow, I don't really know.   I wasn't expecting that to feel like that‑‑ I was just playing for bogey to hit it up there near Justin's and 2‑putt. 

Q.   The first chip shot on 16, can you talk about that one?   Did you just miss‑hit it or were you trying to get a little cute with it?
ADAM SCOTT:   Well, it was an almost impossible shot to get close to.   I didn't have a good stance, and any lie in the bermudarough is a little unpredictable, so I was just trying to get just to the green and let it trickle down, which I had to do with my next one, as well.   Just went straight underneath, and, I don't know, I didn't do anything wrong or right.   You can hit two shots the same out of that stuff and have two different results.   It's not a good spot to be, obviously. 
Realistically, if I was there and it wasn't this event, you'd be hitting it 20 feet long and trying to hole a 20‑footer for par.   And I was getting cute.   I was getting cuter than I normally would, really. 

Q.   Do you have a number in mind tomorrow of what it would take? 
ADAM SCOTT:   I don't know, look at the range of scores.   Anything can happen out there.   If you don't play well, it's not easy to get it around here out of the bermudarough.   It's tricky and unpredictable.   And Justin is playing great, and if he plays like that again, it's going to be tough.   But you don't have to do much wrong to shoot a couple over around here, either. 
Let's see what happens; if I can get off to a good start and keep pace, hopefully it will be exciting coming down the last few holes. 

Q.   I asked you at The Barclays if you were excited about coming to Bermuda and you had said obviously because of the nature to get here‑‑ have you been to Bermuda before prior to this? 
ADAM SCOTT:   No, I haven't, and I hope to come back next year (laughter). 

Q.   Did you bring the green jacket with you? 
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, it comes everywhere. 

Q.   Did you get matching socks, Bermuda‑style?
ADAM SCOTT:   No.   But I could probably dig the medium socks out of my junior wardrobe, because we grew up in Australia playing golf with shorts and long socks, so probably still have a couple pairs lying around. 
JULIUS MASON:   Will we see the green jacket at this evening's function? 
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, maybe.   Dust it off a little bit and bring it out (laughter).   I don't need much of an excuse to wear it, so I might wear it tonight. 
JULIUS MASON:   Thank you very much.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT