PGA GRAND SLAM OF GOLF
October 14, 2013
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JULIUS MASON:   Adam, welcome to Bermuda, reminder to everybody, this is your first time here to the island.   You're here visiting with your dad, Phil, and you've been on the island for a while and experiencing a couple different golf courses here.   How have your first couple of days been going out here with your father?   
ADAM SCOTT:   It's been great.   It's been nice to come and actually spend some time in a place that we go to, especially a place as nice as Bermuda.   Enjoyed playing a little bit of golf here on the island, and seeing a little bit of the island here and there, but also it's been nice and relaxing.   
I've caught up on some rest after a couple long weeks, the last week with The Presidents Cup and THE TOUR Championship.   So it's all been a lot of fun, and I guess it's down to business now.   
JULIUS MASON:   How did you play in the Pro‑Am?   
ADAM SCOTT:   Well, it was a little tough out there today I must say.   It's hard to really gauge how well you're playing.   But it was good to get a feel for the course in some serious wind, because I think that's what we're expecting the next couple of days.   I've had three looks at the course now, which I think is helpful.   Hopefully holds me in good stead over the next couple of days.   
   
 Q.   Can you give us your impressions of the course in more detail, a couple of the holes that you particularly like, other ones that you think could be particularly challenging, especially with the wind?   
ADAM SCOTT:   Well, the wind is what makes this course a real challenge.   The rough is long, so hitting the fairways is going to be premium whether the wind is up or not.   
But, this course has such elevation change, and that always makes it tough, and that's why I think playing a couple extra rounds is helpful, because you just get a better feel for how much downhill a tee shot is or a par 3 shot into a green.   That's the stuff that you can only get with experience of playing a course.   
So a lot of picturesque holes.   Obviously everyone talks about 16 but 8 is equally as beautiful I think, and I think it's a really good hole, the 8th hole.   It's got a nice green and they did a nice job with that.   A lot of really nice holes; the back nine is a very nice nine holes of golf.  
   
 Q.   Can you just talk about being here and the fact of what it takes to be here, and kind of reflect on your year to know if you're here, obviously you won a major but that's got to be gratifying to make it here?  
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, absolutely.   There's only one way you can get here, really, and you're going to be a major champion.   I think it's a really neat deal that The PGA of America put onto recognize the four champions, and the fuss that they make over us this week is extremely nice and they remind you that you should be proud of your achievements.   
It's easy to just keep playing, because there have been so many weeks since I've won the Masters and so many of those weeks, I haven't won, and that's all you judge yourself on is your last round.   
But it's nice that there's an event like this that let's you sit back and kind of remember what happened, whether it was April, or August at the PGA, and let it sink in, what you've actually achieved.   
   
 Q.   Given the way the season has gone, the wrap‑around season, how important was it for you to just have this time to relax and recharge your batteries?   
ADAM SCOTT:   Well, it's not really affecting me because I'm not playing any of the events at the back end of this year.   
So it's just nice to relax after the last three months of golf.   We've played a lot of serious golf in the last three months and there's been no stop.   
So that's mentally tiring, more so than ever; especially if you're playing well, you're in contention.   I felt like I was in contention at The Open and the PGA, I was contending at a couple of the Playoff events and also for the FedExCup.   So when you're up there, you're working hard mentally and it's a nice kind of wind‑down in October for me to be honest.   
So this should be fun this next couple of days with this group of guys here.   I'm sure they will have some fun on the course; I look forward to it.   
   
 Q.   Could you talk about some of the opportunities that have come your way in the last six months?   
ADAM SCOTT:   Well, I think the best one is that I get to go back to Augusta for the rest of my life (laughter).   That's going to be enjoyable.   I look forward to playing there for many, many years and going to that Champions Dinner for a long, long time.   I think that's got to be the best opportunity.   
There's so many perks just to do with that event that keep popping up in your mind like those kind of things.   And then I'll play somewhere with Zach Johnson and he points out we'll be eating dinner together until they put us in the ground.   I look forward to that kind of stuff.   It's going to be really neat.   
I don't think I've really gotten to experience any of them yet.   I think it will all happen in the future.   
JULIUS MASON:   Adam Scott, thank you for visiting us.   Enjoy your evening tonight and we'll see you tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT