TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 21, 2013
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   We were siting in a rain room at 7:30.   That was the quietest part of the clubhouse staying out of people's way.   Sure enough, you had to get an IV.   When did you know you were sick, and how did you express your sickness?   
    ADAM SCOTT:   I wasn't feeling top drawer last night and had a rough night, one of those ones.   It's probably a case of man flu where fever throughout the night and not a lot of sleep.   Uncomfortable.   And didn't feel too flush this morning.   So had to get some help.   I feel a lot better now, but it was pretty rough this morning.   
   
 Q.   Did it improve and when and how gradual did it improve?   
    ADAM SCOTT:   Well, I don't feel 100 percent, but I feel okay, good enough to get around.   I started feeling good about four holes to go.  
   
 Q.   You guys never like to use excuses, but how much did it affect your performance and scoring?   
    ADAM SCOTT:   It was very disappointing to wake up feeling like that.   When I woke up this morning, I definitely wouldn't have been going.   I was really flat and not in a good way.   So it was just enough to get me going, and hopefully I can rest up tonight and feel better tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   (No microphone), considering the way you were playing before?   
    ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, pretty disappointed because I felt like I could have made a run today with some good golf.   It went completely the other way.   
    When your body's feeling so lethargic and heavy, the club feels like it weighs 60 pounds, and it was just hard work to get anything moving.   All your rhythm and everything is off when your body is feeling so poor.   You know, it was a battle for me today, and I'm disappointed that I wasn't at 100 percent to try and give Henrik a shake and stick with him.   
   
 Q.   [No microphone.]  
    ADAM SCOTT:   A bit of both.   Yeah, it's nasty.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT