DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 29, 2013
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JOHN BUSH:   We'd like to welcome Adam Scott into the interview room here at the Deutsche Bank Championship, currently No. 2 in the FedExCup standings, and coming off of that win this past Sunday at the Barclays. 
Adam, welcome back to the Deutsche Bank Championship.   If we can get your thoughts on being here.
ADAM SCOTT:   Well, this is one of my favorite events on the Tour and definitely has a special place in my heart, being where I won my first TOUR event back in 2003.   So always look forward to coming up to this area.   And I've really enjoyed playing the course over the last few years.   I think the changes they've made have really settled in and matured.   It's a pleasure to play here, so I'm looking forward to this week. 

Q.   I just wanted to get your thoughts on playing with Tiger and Phil.   I guess you've only played together one other time.   It was the 2008 U.S. Open.   And I'm sure a lot of people are going to be following you tomorrow.   What are your thoughts on playing with them?
ADAM SCOTT:   Well, I'm looking forward to it.   I'm not too worried about tomorrow morning's round, I'm more interested in Saturday afternoon, how that's going to shape up.   I'm sure it's going to be quite vocal out there on Saturday afternoon.   But it will be a fun experience.   And I enjoyed it last time.   It's one of the great memories I have of my whole golfing career, I think, was playing in that one, two and three pairing at the 2008 U.S. Open.   The build up to that event was huge.   And just to be even the third wheel in that group was really something I'll remember forever.
So it might be the same tomorrow, I don't know, but it will be fun no matter what.   We're all playing really well this year.   So hopefully we can push each other along and make a lot of birdies, and it will be an enjoyable couple of days.

Q.   Who's the third wheel this year?
ADAM SCOTT:   It would be me again (laughter).

Q.   I may be mistaken on this, but I seem to recall when Vijay took No.1 away from Tiger here, were you not playing with him in that last group?   Was it a three‑ball that last day?
ADAM SCOTT:   No, it wasn't, I played in front of him.

Q.   We always have the one, two, three, FedExCup standings, but I think this is the first time that one, two three in FedEx has also been one, two, three in the world, does it add anything to it, do you think?   Can you make something up?
ADAM SCOTT:   If it's Tiger and Phil it's a good grouping, isn't it?   It's going to be huge for everyone to come out and watch and great viewing to TV and hopefully lots of good stories for you to write.   They're the big show and it's fun to be involved in that atmosphere.   I think I've learned to enjoy being a part of all that and gotten somewhat comfortable with it. 

Q.   Prior to last week you had sort of ceded Player of the Year award to Tiger, it seemed to be, and Rory in here earlier said it's Tiger, hands down.   Has your opinion changed or who do you think deserves the honor at this point?
ADAM SCOTT:   At this point, I mean I think he does.   He's won five events.   That's quite dominant, I must say.   But the year is not over.   But if you ask me right now it's hard to say anyone's played better than him for the whole year.   I'm trying my best to play better than him.   It's not an easy job, let me tell you, he plays good.

Q.   Just curious, from sitting here ten years ago, what did you have envisioned for your career then and what were some of the things you envisioned for your career, and what's panned out and what hasn't panned out?
ADAM SCOTT:   Gosh, it's tough to know.   I think I was only looking up at that point when I sat here winning on the Tour for the first time and just imagined it would all probably be a lot easier than it is.   And I think probably that's youth and in experience and being somewhat naive.   Because at that point golf wasn't a challenge, at all.   It was a lot of fun and it all came quite easily.
So even over the space of ten years that changes a lot.   And I'm sure it will over the 20 years and 30 years.   But there's no regrets or anything.   I probably sat there and thought I'd win another three the next year and a couple of Majors would just jump in the next couple of years.   That's how you feel when you're confident and playing well.
So after winning last week, again, I feel confident.   And I expect it to keep happening.   But I think I have a better understanding of what I need to do to keep it happening now than ten years ago.

Q.   How much confidence do you take the way you won last week, and I guess how important is The Presidents Cup to you overall after the year you've had?
ADAM SCOTT:   Anytime you win you take confidence out of it.   You've beaten anyone that was there that week.   And that's what you set out to do at the start of the week.   It's a really good feeling to win on the PGA Tour, it's not easy to do.   And to have two wins in a year is tough.   And I feel like I've played well enough to get that, so I was pushing hard for a win.   A lot of things went my way on Sunday, and I feel fortunate to win.   But in the end I was the low guy for the week.   I'll take it and run and take all the confidence that I get out of that from playing a great round on Sunday.
As far as The Presidents Cup goes, it's definitely starting to get on the radar now.   As we get closer and you know my feeling, I feel it's important for the Internationals to win and just for myself, for my own satisfaction of being on a winning team, which I haven't done in my career.   I want to experience that kind of elation with a bunch of other guys around me that have put in for the week.   So I'm looking forward to that but a lot of important golf to play before then, too. 

Q.   Not to jump too far ahead, but the bye week being next week in the playoffs, just curious to get your thoughts on what your preference is in terms of when that is, and particularly this year you're playing well.   Does it feel like it can stall you, do you feel like you need a break, what's your viewpoint?
ADAM SCOTT:   I don't think it matters, really.   It's no different than at any other point.   I don't often play four events in a row, but if you have to for the FedExCup you're going to.   And you play them and deal with them accordingly. 
So next week is going to be a week off, and I take plenty of weeks off during the year and I'll do the same.   And hopefully that keeps whatever form I leave Boston with there for when I return.
I don't think it can stall‑‑ it shouldn't stall your momentum. 

Q.   Do you have any preference on it?   Because it's moved around obviously for different reasons, different years, is there any preference on when you'd like to see it?
ADAM SCOTT:   Not really.   I mean I haven't given too much thought to it.   I think in the middle seems a little more logical to me.   But I know that's not going to happen next year. 

Q.   If I could, back to the Player of the Year.   It seems that the talk among the nonplayers is that a Major and another win might trump five wins on Tour.   What would trump the five wins on Tour, a Major and maybe two FedExCups?
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, I think it does, absolutely (laughter), it absolutely does.   It's tough.   I mean we tried to do this equation, and create a formula last week, off the top of my head, in the press many radio.   I don't know.   Absolutely all I can do is try to go win more.   Maybe two wins might do it, I'm not sure.   I don't know what the other players are thinking.   I think we talk about it a lot less than most other people.   But it's great to even have my name in the mix.   And I'll try and keep it there until the end of the year. 

Q.   Just FedExCup‑wise, does your approach change now, do you start thinking about the ten million dollars and all that comes with winning the trophy?
ADAM SCOTT:   Not really.   It's so far away, I mean you can't even think about winning this event, let alone the FedExCup.   It all is very volatile still.   And I have to have a good result this week to keep myself in a great position for Atlanta, I think.   I haven't given it really any thought at all.   I'm just trying to get a good couple of rounds under my belt this week and put myself into position.

Q.   You were very vocal about needing the win, and all that sort of stuff, do you feel you're sort of one of the leaders of the team?   I guess you're the highest rank player, and you've played five of them, are you going to take a leadership role this year?
ADAM SCOTT:   If it's needed I don't mind doing that, but we'll see.   Nick's the captain, he's got good assistants.   I know he's put a lot of time and effort into preparing for this event.   I can only win one point at a time.   And we need all of us to do well to win this thing.   But if it's needed then I'll do what Nick needs me to do.   But there are other really experienced players on our team, too, that we've got to rely on.   So I think the answer for us is to play good golf that week. 

Q.   Are you playing the World Cup?   Are you thinking about?
ADAM SCOTT:   Definitely thinking about it, seeing I'll be right there, it's at Royal Melbourne.   It's not too bad playing two weeks in a row at Royal Melbourne.

Q.   Is that a yes?
ADAM SCOTT:   I'm definitely thinking about it (laughter).
JOHN BUSH:   Adam, we appreciate your time.   Thank you, sir. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT