THE BARCLAYS
August 25, 2013
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Congratulations, first of all, I have to ask, you were finished about an hour and a half before this last group, you're on the driving range watching Gary Woodland line up that putt and he could have tied you, what were you thinking? 
ADAM SCOTT:   I was thinking, I'm lucky to even have a chance, I started today on a wing and a prayer I thought.   I played a good round of golf but I didn't think it was good enough, but the closing holes threw up a challenge on these guys and luck was definitely on my side today.

Q.   72 yesterday and 66 today; conditions were similar.   What was the difference in your score? 
ADAM SCOTT:   I played terrible yesterday.   I was lucky to even shoot that.   But a good rally and you're never out of it.   Today I played really solid and it was just enough. 

Q.   You were 11th coming into the FedExCup standings, obviously much higher on that, but besides the $10million, what would it mean for you to win this?
ADAM SCOTT:   It's been a great year for me.   I've been playing consistently well and trying hard to get another victory this year and surprised myself with this one today.   Got to keep it going now, three big weeks in the Playoffs left and hopefully I can cap it off with a big win in the FedExCup. 

Q.   What was it like being out there playing in frontof the New York crowd? 
ADAM SCOTT:   It is really different than what we experience in the game of golf at most places.   It's a big crowd.   It's like I would call a Melbourne crowd in Australia; real sports fans, they love their sport, anything, and it's a buzz for us to play in front of them, make a lot of noise and create an atmosphere and that's what we get up for. 

Q.   Masters Champion, Barclays Champion, can you put a perspective on what this year has been like for you?
ADAM SCOTT:   It's been a whirlwind obviously.   Winning the Masters was just something else, but somehow I've managed to keep pretty focused and keep the good form up and cap off a win here at The Barclays. 

Q.   You posted a number, waited around; how surprised are you that that number held up at the end? 
ADAM SCOTT:   I'm pretty shocked.   There were so many guys out there with a chance and really didn't think I had much of a chance. 
You know, if you hang around the lead long enough, you're going to win some, you're going to lose some and this one went my way, so I'm really fortunate that it did and really happy to get another win this year.

Q.   We spoke early in the week after the break at Augusta National, you felt like your game was good enough to win again and you wanted to win again.   How gratifying is this to finally happen again and do it here in the Playoffs? 
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, it's huge.   I've been pushing pretty hard and knocking on the door the last couple Majors, and it didn't happen.   And then to come into the Playoffs, there's so much to play for and this is such an important week with all of the big points up for grabs. 
Now knowing I'm going to have a run at the FedExCup is going to be great.

Q.   How exciting is it knowing that the next three tournaments will get bigger and better? 
ADAM SCOTT:   For me it's important.   I need to use this momentum I've got and take it up to Boston, a course where I've had success before and I like playing, and hopefully it would be nice to kind of get back in contention again and go back‑to‑back.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT