THE BARCLAYS
August 23, 2013
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Not a lot of golf on Thursday, but plenty on Friday from Adam Scott, how pleased are you with your position halfway through?  
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, I'm pretty happy with today's effort It was actually kind of tough out there.   When we went out this morning, the wind was up, and the course played a lot tougher than the few holes I played yesterday.   Managed to adjust and have a good score out there today.  
   
 Q.   When there's such a disconnect between the first two rounds with the delays, how does your approach change knowing that you're in it for the long haul here on Friday?  
ADAM SCOTT:   Playing 30 holes in a day is good, if you're playing well, you want to keep playing.   Sometimes when you're playing well rather just keep going around and I've had a little bit of momentum going, with about ten or 12 holes to go, feeding off Keegan who played great.   So all in all, pretty happy.  
   
 Q.   With the win at Augusta in April, what would it mean to cap off this season with a great run here in the FedExCup Playoffs?   
ADAM SCOTT:   It would be real nice.   I feel like I've played a lot of good golf and obviously winning at Augusta is huge, but I feel like I'd like to win again before the end of the season, and kind of validate all of my good play.   
It was playing tricky at times today.   Wind gusting up a little bit and a few pin positions were tucked away making it tough.   But I kind of fed off Keegan a little bit.   He played beautiful and managed to get a few birdies.   
   
 Q.   As you went through the round, when you reflect back on it, what are the shots that kept it going for you and got you to 5‑under for the round?  
ADAM SCOTT:   I think that was a good save on 16, made a 10‑footer for par, and then holed a bunker shot on 18 as I made the turn and got some momentum and kept with it till the end.  
   
 Q.   How are you feeling for the weekend now that you've been around twice on this course?  
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, I feel like I'm a little bit more comfortable with it, and a good rest tonight will be nice.   
   
 Q.   What did you hit in on the sixth, what did you have there?  
ADAM SCOTT:   6‑iron.   
   
 Q.   From?   
ADAM SCOTT:   217.   
   
 Q.   I wonder if you can just give a general comment‑‑ it's all positioning for the first two days.   
ADAM SCOTT:   A little bit, but I feel like there's a lot of birdies out here.   
So shooting 2‑under the first day is not going to‑‑ shooting 2‑under a day is not going to putt you anywhere good.   So you're going to have to go and make some and 5‑under is about what's going to win this thing a day.  
   
 Q.   5‑under a day?  
ADAM SCOTT:   It's going to be 15 to 20 (under) in my opinion, so I had to put the foot down a little bit the second round.   
   
 Q.   How many did you play today?  
ADAM SCOTT:   I played 30 today.   
   
 Q.   So bad end of the draw?   
ADAM SCOTT:   It all evens out in the long run but it definitely was harder this morning than yesterday.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT