THE BARCLAYS
August 21, 2013
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JOHN BUSH:   We'd like to welcome Adam Scott into the interview room here at The Barclays.   Adam is 11 in the FedExCup standings, based a lot obviously on that great win at the Masters earlier this year.   It's your ninth start at The Barclays, including second place in 2006.   
First of all, welcome back the Playoffs and The Barclays.  
ADAM SCOTT:   Thank you, John.   It's good to be here as always.   
JOHN BUSH:   Recap your season for us.   Obviously the win at Augusta, but just talk about your play overall.   
ADAM SCOTT:   Well, obviously the highlight was Augusta, but my play has been fairly consistent.   I've had a couple other chances to win big events that I didn't take, but I like the fact that I've been really consistent; in the events I've wanted to play well in, I have.   Only four left for the season, and they are really important ones to play well in, so hopefully I can peak at the right time here, too.   
   
 Q.   What do you see differently this week than you did four years ago?  
ADAM SCOTT:   The sun (laughter).   
It just seems to be a little more subtle.   I don't have really clear memories of how the course was last time around.   Obviously it got a lot of criticism, but there was nothing too crazy that I saw out there today.   So if it was, then they have done a nice job fixing it.   And if not, then I think we're all mad.   
   
 Q.   I don't remember if you missed the cut or didn't have a very good finish but it was like your last chance at showing yourself for The Presidents Cup.   I don't know if you left here thinking you had kind of blown your chance; Greg picks you.   Can you talk about how much that carried you forward to where you are now?   
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, I think I made the cut, but I didn't do‑‑ I didn't play very well.   I finished in the middle of the pack.   It was my last event in the Playoffs.   I was out after that.   
I didn't really know what was going to happen beyond that regarding Presidents Cup, because I really didn't get a chance to play.   But when it came time and Greg asked how I was feeling and if I'd be ready to play, I said, well, if I'm needed, I'll make myself ready.   
You know, it was probably six or eight weeks until the Cup from here.   So once he gave me the nod, you know, I just kept working, even though I didn't get to play for a few weeks, but I then added Turning Stone in after THE TOUR Championship to get tournament ready before The Presidents Cup.   
I think it had to go one or two ways; either I had to get motivated to play, or I had to take a good break and clear my head, and come back with a new attitude and refocus for the next season.   
So Greg's nod and putting me in The Presidents Cup was the motivation I needed to work through a bad attitude and some bad golf.   
   
 Q.   Who would you say has had the best year on the TOUR so far?   
ADAM SCOTT:   Tiger.   Five wins?   Has he won five times?   Tiger's had the best year.   
   
 Q.   And the second question is in terms of determining the Player of the Year, what criteria should be used and how much weight should we give to a major?   Should it count as a rule of thumb, like two or three other wins, or should we start by looking at the players that won the majors and go from there, or how would you conceive of it?  
ADAM SCOTT:   I would have to have some time to think about that and see what's really fair, rather than just throw out comments.   I don't know‑‑ you couldn't come up with a formula where a major is equivalent of two or three other wins, I guess, but I don't know what's fair.   
It's hard to pass up looking at five wins.   I think the next best guy might have two; is that right?   That's a great year to win that many times.   
I think it's just, I don't know, it's all personal opinion.   It doesn't matter.   If you think winning a major is what you base success on, then if you haven't, you haven't had a great year.   But winning‑‑ I've always based it around winning events, and I don't think one major makes up for five tournaments.   
   
 Q.   At last year's Barclays, a lot of players had a very difficult time with the greens, and this year, do you think it can get any worse than it was last year, and do you think maybe the proximity to the water helps at all with the speed of the greens?   
ADAM SCOTT:   You're talking about Bethpage last year?   
   
 Q.   Bethpage was tough last year; just what you're seeing on the greens right now and what you think?  
ADAM SCOTT:   No, the course is in perfect shape here.   They can get them as fast or as slow as they want.   The greens are not very big, so if you're hitting the green, I think you're going to see a lot of birdies because they are not going to be long putts.   And they are in perfect condition, and I don't see no matter what they do to them, to getting to a state like Bethpage was last year.  
   
 Q.   Would you rather have your season or Tiger's, and do you think Tiger would rather have his or yours?   
ADAM SCOTT:   I'd rather have mine, that's for sure (smiling).   I really don't know.   He may want mine.   I mean, No. 15 is proving to be difficult for him, so that would have given him that.   
But they have all got to get tougher the more you get.  
   
 Q.   Following the other question, would you look at things differently if you took Phil, who has also got a major, but won in Phoenix, if he were to win the FedExCup, how do you think players would look at body of work versus total wins, which obviously is difficult to do, as well?  
ADAM SCOTT:   I think it would depend on‑‑ I would assume he would win at least one more tournament if he were to win the FedExCup.   You'd have to think so.   
But I'm not sure that that makes up for missing events, as well, because it's based around a four‑week performance, not a year‑long performance.   
You know, it's a tough one, all the different equations with who had the better year.   Two wins and a major, is a pretty strong showing.   I think if that was the way it ended up and Tiger still had five, that's a pretty good argument.   That's a pretty fair argument to throw Phil in the mix.   
   
 Q.   I think you moved to New York in the last year or so?   
ADAM SCOTT:   No, I have not.   
   
 Q.   You're not living in New York City?  
ADAM SCOTT:   No.   
   
 Q.   Next question is Bermuda.   Have you played Port Royal before?  
ADAM SCOTT:   I've never been to Bermuda before.   So that's exciting to get to go there, and I guess it's really an event you want to play every year.  
   
 Q.   Given that you have nine wins in your career, can you even conceive of winning 71 more times or 70 more times; to get to a number that Tiger has had?   
ADAM SCOTT:   No.   No, I mean, it's just not realistic, is it.   
Yeah, it's just not going to happen, so I really don't think about that.   
   
 Q.   What I'm saying is, is what he's done on this tour, and winning that amount of times, does that almost get short‑shrifted by perhaps people that aren't out here every week and trying to grind it out and get wins?   
ADAM SCOTT:   I mean, the guy set so many records, I think so many‑‑ so much of what he's achieved is remarkable that it's overlooked.   I mean, the list is too long.   He's done stuff no one else has ever done, and he just keeps passing other players' records all the time.   
So it's easy to overlook all the stuff he's managed to achieve, and, yeah, when he whips by the all‑time record for TOUR wins, or is he passed it?   He's three short, yeah, so that's not going to be long, and he'll be past that, so then he might get credit for how much he's won once he's the No. 1 TOUR winner.   
   
 Q.   Did you spend some time this last week in the Bahamas with Justin Rose, and can you tell us a little bit about that?   
ADAM SCOTT:   I saw him down there.   He was down there, and they held a party for him on Saturday night for his U.S. Open win, which was plenty of fun.   Lots of fun, except he left early (laughing).   
   
 Q.   How late did you stay?   
ADAM SCOTT:   Beg your pardon?   
   
 Q.   How late did you stay?   
ADAM SCOTT:   Pretty late.   That was past my bed time.   
   
 Q.   As much as we listen to you guys talk about value and how hard it is to win out here, why do you think Sam's record of 82 has never had as much traction as the Nicklaus record of 18?   Killing you on a Wednesday.   
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, you're making me think.   I guess‑‑ and I don't know if it's changed over time or not, but obviously the Majors have so much value now, and Nicklaus did win 60‑something, 70?   He also won a lot of tournaments like Snead did.   So it wasn't like he only won 18 Majors, or 18 events and Sam won 80 times.   
And so I think he was so far ahead in the major count from anyone else that it was different than Snead's 82 when he was only maybe ten ahead of Nicklaus or whatever that number might be.   And then there's a host of players up there, too.   But 18 Majors, he was double what anyone else had I think that was probably active with Nicklaus.   
JOHN BUSH:   Adam Scott, thank you, sir.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT