PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 2013
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  ADAM SCOTT:   Probably the best round I've ever had and I just hit really nice shots and didn't leave myself too much work.   You have to take advantage of that if you are feeling that and I was through the turn there.   It was a dream start after kind of a nervous first couple of holes.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
ADAM SCOTT:   There were a couple of highlights of the day for me.   Obviously a poor tee shot on one and in trouble right from the start to make a bit of a curler on the first to settle down is very nice.   
And then after playing so well, I was starting to feel it slip coming in on the last three holes.   And then to make one on 18 and get something out of the run that I felt could have been special was a nice feeling.   I did play very well today and it's always nice to have 65 to show for that.  
   
 Q.   The scoring conditions today, where's there's no wind and as soft as it was, this might be the easiest major championship round you've played in a while?   
ADAM SCOTT:   Potentially, you know we have all said the whole week the course is set up correctly.   The best score out there is 5‑under par from the best players of the world.   I don't think that's anything to be ashamed of.   
I think they've got it right.   The greens were soft today and that was by Mother Nature more than anything, I think.   So if they firms up little bit, we're going to have a tough test over the next three days.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you lost some momentum during the weather delay?  
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, a touch.   I mean, I was hot when the rain came.   And to go back out and have 234, par‑3 with your first shot is a little tough.   I pulled it.   And then just had to go and do the whole settling down thing again like teeing off at the first.   Was scrambling and not quite in the same rhythm as I was in.   I was going along nicely, I still felt.   It's all ways tough with a rain delay like that when you're playing really well.  
   
 Q.   Did you think that might have impacted you and cost you, that rain delay?  
ADAM SCOTT:   I don't think it cost me any shots.   I managed to have a good up‑and‑down on that 11th hole from left.   You know, that settled me down again and got me back in rhythm.   It was disappointing to drop one, especially on 16, but that can happen on these tough courses.   It's hard to go bogey free.   
If I can go out with some kind of momentum tomorrow morning off today's round, I know there is a good score out there.  
   
 Q.   It will still be soft in the morning?  
ADAM SCOTT:   It all depends.   It depends where they put the pins and what kind of weather we get.   We have seen there is good scoring out there.   Like I said, they are pretty good.   I think other guys are going to play well, as well, and I'm going to push forward.  
   
 Q.   Performance‑wise, did this remind you of the first round at Lytham?  
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, it was very close.   Yeah, I felt good out there today.   I felt like I could swing freely and I was hitting all the shots that I wanted to hit.   Like I said, when you get something going for you in a major, sometimes you have got to be not afraid to get out of your own way and let go, and I did that at Lytham and I did that here for 10 or 11 holes.   It's a good feeling when you can swing freely like that.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
ADAM SCOTT:   Absolutely.   It's the best group of the year to be in.   It was a great group and especially today playing with Phil.   It's an incredible atmosphere, every single moment out there.   I thoroughly enjoyed that.   I hope I can be in this group in the future.  
   
 Q.   Last week you mentioned coming from behind in major isn't such a bad place to be pressure‑wise.   Are you feeling comfortable still being out there in front?   
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, I mean, it depends.   Right now it's irrelevant, I think, other than trying to shoot as low as you can.   I have just got to keep playing and worry about whether I'm in front or behind come Sunday.   It's obvious, you know, we have seen a lot of guys, you know, be a few back and that's held them in quite good shape recently to close out a major.  
   
 Q.   When you are playing with Phil today, does it sometimes feel that anybody else is paying attention to Justin and yourself?  
ADAM SCOTT:   Look, I think the crowds were so fair on all of us out there today.   Obviously Phil has a ton of support and that's rightly so.   
But I think Justin and I felt plenty of love as well.   We come over here and have been so well accepted in the United States.   It's so enjoyable to play golf over here.   I can't complain about that one bit.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, it's going to be helpful hitting a lot of greens as the week goes on.   It will just take a lot of pressure off.   You might be able to get it up and down for a few rounds but it all gets a bit different when the pressure is on Sunday it.   It gets harder.  
   
 Q.   Have you learned how to prepare for the major championships better than you did a few years ago?  
ADAM SCOTT:   I think I did a pretty good job of it.   I think the results are showing that I have got something figured out.   I don't know if you ever have it all figured out.   I like what I'm doing, so I am just going to keep doing it.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
ADAM SCOTT:   The list is long.   I don't know if we have enough time to go into it.   Just more about peaking for them and treating them a little bit differently and working a practice and playing schedule around peaking for four weeks a year.  
   
 Q.   Got pretty humid out there today.   It's a long day for you.   How do you reenergize for tomorrow morning and an early tee time?  
ADAM SCOTT:   Go home and just rest up.   Get as much sleep as possible and come out here and go at it again.   That's only 18 holes.   It wasn't like we played 36.   I should be able to handle it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT