THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 2013
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  That last putt on 18 was certainly a nice one, moved you
right up the leaderboard.
ADAM SCOTT:  (Laughing) Right up there, where I wanted to
be.
Q.  Not far enough?
ADAM SCOTT:  No, not quite.  I let a great chance slip, I
felt, during the middle of the round and that's disappointing.
I'm happy I put myself in chance to -- my game is in great shape,
that's the good thing to take from it.  But I didn't get to the
number that Phil finished on, but I was right there.  Had I played
a little more solid in the middle of that back nine, I could have
had a chance coming in.
Q.  Is it a little less disappointing because Phil shot 32 on
the back nine.
ADAM SCOTT:  No, it's relative, isn't it?  He had to
shoot 32.  Well, he didn't in the end, but he felt he had to,
because there was a bunch of us at about 2-under.  And I think the
disappointing thing is this one I felt a wasted a little bit.  I
would have liked to be in at the end and no one was, actually.
It's a shame.  But the game is there.  I'm going to look forward
to keeping it sharp next week and going to the World Golf
Championship and another Major in the next couple of weeks.  I
like where I'm at.
Q.  How much were you watching --
ADAM SCOTT:  I don't know.  The boards weren't working
really very good.  I had a look a couple of times, but they didn't
really seem to make so much sense.  I wasn't sure if they had it
right.  Phil kept moving up.
Q.  Did you have a number in mind?
ADAM SCOTT:  No, when we were on the 6th hole I thought
even par was going to win the thing, so fire off.  You can never
put that in your mind.  You can only just play the best you can
and all of a sudden I was a couple under after 12, I think, and
even was out the window, as well.
It's just tough going out there, you just can't make too
many errors, and I made a couple on the green on 14 and 15, bad
ones.
Q.  After the 6th hole you were a couple over.  Then you had
a couple of birdies (inaudible.)
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, like I said, it was a little tricky
to -- I wasn't watching the boards so much, and I didn't really
know what exactly was going on.  But I knew that the way I was
going wasn't going to be any good.
But I was playing fine.  And I hadn't got off to a good
start any day out here.  I just had to keep hitting good shots and
being patient.  And the putter was feeling pretty good, to be fair
today, at that point, anyway.  And then rolled a few in and got
the momentum going, but just kind of lost it a bit there on 13,
aimed the putt a bit further right than I should have and missed.
And then obviously made a bad error on the read on 14 from the
back right.
Q.  As you were walking up 18 it seemed like you had a little
chat with Tiger, was it just generic stuff?
ADAM SCOTT:  It was just generic stuff.  I think we both
just kind of were disappointed with our performance today, to be
honest.  And shrugging it off.
Q.  Overall assessment of your week?
ADAM SCOTT:  I'm happy with my week, other than I didn't
win.  But I lived up to my expectations of putting myself in
contention with a chance.  And it will just have to go down in the
experience book and something to build on again.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
ADAM SCOTT:  Well, it's hard.  Did anyone else do it
today?  (Laughing).  One guy did it?  It's very hard, especially
when you're trying to win an Open.  But we know that he goes for
broke, and if that's how he was feeling and pulling it off, he's
got the ability to do that.  And he's gone and won an Open easily,
it looks like now.  So every credit to him.
Q.  Another Major where you have another strong result.  May
not be the result you're after, but obviously contending.  Do you
feel like you're close to those floodgates?  You're there again,
it must be very close again?
ADAM SCOTT:  Well, a few in a row sounds good (laughter).
I'd like to get another one to start with.  No, look, I
like where my game's at.  Again, you know, up there, contending
for most of the week.  That's where I want to be.  That's where
I've got to keep myself.  And, yeah, I believe I can win another
one soon.  If it wasn't this week, hopefully I'll do the same
stuff at the PGA, and I can put my foot down there on the back
nine and run away with it.
Q.  Could you run us through the emotions of 13 and 16.  What
is going through your head?
ADAM SCOTT:  Well, I think I was just trying to compose
myself by 15, after a couple of bogeys it can happen out there.
You've got to just shake that off.  But really overthought
everything on 15, and had to back off a putt there, mid-stroke.
And just kind of threw my rhythm.  And saw Tiger run it way by and
had fast in mind, and I dolleyed it down there short, and then
poor alignment on the next putt, I think.  I aimed it too far
right and missed.  And at that point, after that one, it was
deflation, really, because I could see the scoreboard and your
chances at dashed.  You're going to have to finish birdie, eagle,
birdie, at that point.
Yeah, after 16 I just wanted to stop making bogeys, to be
honest with you.
Q.  You mentioned playing with Tiger, and what was it like
the experience of playing with him on a final day, not only the
way he was playing, but also the experience of having the Aussie
world expectation on you?
ADAM SCOTT:  Look, I've always enjoyed playing with
Tiger.  I've always felt it really focuses you, because you have
to be, because there's so much commotion and stuff going on, and
that's what he brings to any group he plays in.  So I've enjoyed
that, because it's put the blinkers on and get down to business,
and not worry what he's up to, and how good he is and all the
stuff he does out there.
I've had good days and bad days.  And today I had a bit
of both out there with him.  When you're playing for a Major
you're not worried about who you're playing with, you're worried
about getting the job done.
Q.  Where are you going next?
ADAM SCOTT:  I'll stay here and head over to Bridgetown
from there.

 
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT