THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2013
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MIKE WOODCOCK:  Adam, that's a very good round in testing
conditions today.  I think that puts you on 1-over for the
championship.  The last time I checked the leaderboard, three off
the lead.  How do you feel about your round today?
ADAM SCOTT:  It was a good round of golf today.  I hit a
lot of really good shots.  It was really solid stuff.  I made a
couple of putts.  Made a couple of mistakes, but I think overall
1-under par out there today is a really solid round of golf.  It
puts me in good position for tomorrow.
Q.  Are you starting to get any feelings of building on last
year, what happened last year?  Is it starting to become a good
feeling for you again?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, it's a good feeling to sit here in
this position, absolutely.  It's completely different.  I think I
go out there tomorrow not carrying the weight of the lead or not
having won a Major.  So it's a different feeling.  Hopefully I can
play enough quality shots to give myself chances to be in the hunt
right at the end.
But it's a long way off.  The course, it can turn around
on you in a heartbeat out there, if you're not careful.  I'll be
treading cautiously tomorrow.
Q.  Are you done flashing back to last year's Open
Championship?  It says par 71, but what is it really playing in
your mind?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, I think honestly I haven't flashed
back since Akron last year.  I haven't thought about the entirety
of it at all.  I thought it's best not to.  Just take the couple
of bits that I wanted to and leave it as an experience.  And the
way I remember it is only as a great week.  So I'm done with that.
But the par out here is probably 75, I think, to be fair.
That's like average.  These are the best players in the world who
I say are better than average.  So I think 75 is about par.
Q.  If you could describe the challenge of today as opposed
to the first couple of days.  And also is this a different kind of
satisfaction for you the way you're playing right now, considering
what you've achieved in the past year?
ADAM SCOTT:  Well, the course, I think, played the best
today, honestly.  I think it's right where you want The Open
Championship to be on a Saturday.  The greens were consistent.
They were fast and true.  The pin spots were all very fair.  You
just had a really demanding golf course that required a lot of
thought and strategy, and I don't think you can ask for any more
than that.
What was the other part of your question?
Q.  Satisfaction.
ADAM SCOTT:  Satisfaction, yeah.  Well, I'm satisfied
with how I'm playing this week.  The last few events I haven't
really played that crash hot.  So it's nice to put myself back in
this position.  I worked hard over the last couple of weeks since
AT&T.  So I'm happy that I'm sitting here and I'm going to have a
chance to play a good round tomorrow.
Q.  Would it be a reasonable description to say you've been
going on the radar a little bit to reach the point you are at the
end of the third round?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, for sure, I just kind of plodding
along at even par for most of the week.  And the lead was 6-under
early, so I was well off the radar.  But the course is playing
tougher every day.  So I've somehow crept back into it.
Q.  Obviously having won your first Major this year, do you
look at it now from a very different position?  Is it nice to have
that thought behind you all the time, that it's no longer on your
back?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, I think so.  And especially probably
in this situation where I am right now, when you look at it.  I
feel like I've got, well, nothing really to lose tomorrow and
Majors to gain.  So that's certainly a nice feeling, whereas
before in some ways it was getting to the point where you're
hoping it was going to happen tomorrow.  It is absolutely a weight
off your shoulders to have the first one.  I can't tell you
anything other than that.
Q.  Phil said earlier that other than No. 9 he didn't feel
that there was really another birdie hole out there, and you
better make some 20-footers in order to make some birdies.  What
is the score you think you have to shoot if the guys come in at
2-under or 1-under to get in the hunt tomorrow?  Is mom cooking
for you every night now or not?
ADAM SCOTT:  To create opportunities you have to hit
great shots.  It's hard to get the perfect number in this wind and
judge the bounce out or roll out or the trundle, or whatever you
like to call it, up to the pin.  There's a bit of luck involved in
that as well as a good shot.  I don't know that there's one birdie
hole.  You can mess 9 up pretty quickly.
And mum has got the week off cooking.
Q.  Why is No. 16, I think it's playing 180-something,
there's been one birdie there today and 24 bogeys and I think 7
others, what's the challenge of that hole right there?
ADAM SCOTT:  Well, it's playing -- what was it, 187 or
190, something like that, and I hit a great 4-iron that came up 10
yards short.  It's playing long.  And it's so straight into the
wind that if you put any sidespin on the ball, it's magnified ten
times.  So I feel like a one-yard draw is a ten-yard hook.  So
it's going to punish a shot that's not executed perfectly.
And that pin spot is probably the toughest on the course
today.  It's just sitting perched right on top of a little rise
there.  And it would be very hard to chip it close on that one.
It's no doubt one of the toughest holes out there today.
Q.  You've been with Steve now for obviously a few years, but
on a day like this or a week like this, he's been out here for a
long time, he's been on a lot of bags, how much do you rely on him
to, I don't know, maybe even as a bit of sort of reassurance of
par is a good score, there's no need to worry about not having
made birdies?  How much of that does he bring to you?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, well that's his forte, you know.  His
experience is there in these events where par is a good score.
And his success is there in it, as well.  And he prides himself on
keeping his man at par or better, no matter how hard the course
is.  And we play it in a way according to that, I think.  So we're
right around the mark.
But at times when you want to push, he's there to pull
the reins in, if need be.  He knows it's 72 holes and it can't be
won on the 6th on Friday.  He's got the big picture in mind when
it comes to the 72-hole outcome.
Q.  Has that given you some confidence in terms of staying
with the plan, even though you need a lot of patience?
ADAM SCOTT:  Absolutely.  It's absolutely rubbed off on
me the last couple of years, to the point where I think we just
walk out there with the same mindset almost now.  And it's proven
to work, as well.  My results have been good the last couple of
years with Steve in the big events, and the scoring average -- my
scoring average has been a lot better.
Q.  I know there's a lot of golf still to be played, but if
you could win tomorrow, how would that wrap up probably the most
incredible year in any golfer's life from what happened 12 months
ago through the Masters through this?  It would be quite a story,
wouldn't it?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah.  I think I said it in here on
Wednesday, it would be a fairytale, I think, if that were to
happen.  But they do occasionally happen.  So I'm not counting
myself out of it at all.
Q.  I'm curious what you take the most positive thing out of
this round?  And how you develop that into carrying it into
tomorrow?
ADAM SCOTT:  Just the amount of quality shots I hit in
the winds, starting on the right lines all the time.  The swing
was really feeling nice today.  It was all under control.  And
it's tough to just count on that for tomorrow.  I'm just going to
have to be really, really hard on myself tomorrow.
Hopefully I do come out swinging like that.  I know I'm
going to hit plenty of good ones.  But if I do get out of position
a little bit more tomorrow, I'm going to have to scramble hard.
But I think the game is there where I can do that.  And I've made
a fair share of putts of ten feet and in this week.  So I feel
like I can put myself in with a good shape.  But I'm going to have
to play a great round tomorrow.
Q.  You mentioned before you probably would be able to creep
along a little bit and maybe sneak under the radar, probably
similar with the Masters.  Do you feel that suits you more than
being in the spotlight all week?
ADAM SCOTT:  No, not necessarily.  It's just the way it
is.  Tomorrow the spotlight is going to be on two guys, it looks
like, at the moment.  And that's great.  But as soon as you do
anything out there, you're in the spotlight, too.  There aren't
that many holes to go.  I've always liked myself as a front
runner, and my record is pretty good front running.  If you look
at overall tournaments, it's just the first time I led a Major I
lost it.  But I'd like to change that the next time I get a chance
to lead a Major.
Q.  I believe you said you got here last Tuesday and played
something like nine rounds before the tournament proper.  Is that
a little bit earlier for you than normal in your preparation?  At
what point did you start to understand and maybe appreciate this
golf course and play it the way you are right now?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, I think -- I've seen it change almost
every day I've been here, including the three rounds I've played
in the tournament.  It is a little bit earlier than I got to
Lytham, but I delayed that because the weather was so bad last
year, if you remember.  But I think you've just got to have a good
understanding of it.
And for me it means playing it and hitting enough shots
and different kinds of shots in different winds.  Maybe I don't
visualize it as well as some other people can after just one or
two practice rounds.  But I thoroughly enjoy coming to a Major
venue the week before when no one is here, and I get to play a
beautiful golf course by myself pretty much.  It's an enjoyable
week for me and it's quite productive, as well.
As far as appreciating it, you know, it doesn't take long
once you play Muirfield in any conditions to appreciate the genius
of the golf course.  It's the best one on the Open rota.
Q.  Do you remember when the first time was you started
taking this approach to Major championships was?
ADAM SCOTT:  Maybe it was before The Open in 2010, yeah.
MIKE WOODCOCK:  Adam, thank you very much.  Well played
and best of luck tomorrow.
ADAM SCOTT:  Thanks.
 
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT