THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 17, 2013
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  MIKE WOODCOCK:  Good morning, everyone.  We'll get
started.  I'm delighted to welcome the 2013 Masters champion, Adam
Scott, into the media room.  Adam, thank you for joining us.
Congratulations on a fantastic year so far.  After doing so well
last year in The Open at Lytham, you must be looking forward to
getting started this week.
ADAM SCOTT:  Absolutely.  This really has been the
tournament I've been looking forward to most this year, there's no
doubt, for obvious reasons.  After what happened at Lytham, I was
eager to get back and try and get into another position to
hopefully win the Claret Jug.
It's been a great year, like you said.  Obviously putting
Lytham behind me and going on to win the Masters this year, has
been a bit of a fairy tale, and if I were to get in contention
this week, that would just continue.
I'm excited about the week.  There's so much to look
forward to the way everything has shaped up for this Open
Championship.  Very exciting week ahead.
Q.  I'd just like to know when you arrived here, perhaps at
the weekend?  And also you played Renaissance yesterday.  Is there
any particular reason for that or were you just trying to get away
from the crowds?
ADAM SCOTT:  No, I got up here last Tuesday evening, and
I spent the week playing out here, which was really enjoyable,
obviously we had weather like this every day.  And I just watched
the course firm up throughout the week, and tried to get my game
to adjust to these conditions.  So I had a really relaxed and
enjoyable week learning Muirfield last week.
Yes, I played Renaissance just to get away for a day.  It's
busy out there and I've seen the course a lot.  That was enjoyable
playing, I played with my dad out there.
Q.  You were part of the '03 Presidents Cup team in South
African, and speak fondly of meeting President Mandela.  What was
the experience like for you?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, it's one of those things that I'll
never forget in my life.  I've been so lucky through golf to meet
these important people in the world.  But some certainly have a
different impact on others, and some carry a real aura.  And I was
blown away by just when that man walked into a room how the local
South Africans reacted to him.  It's hard to imagine.  I don't
think I've actually ever seen anything quite like it.  There were
women weeping and stuff like that.  They were just so emotional
about it.
So it was great to kind of be there and get to shake the
man's hand and experience that.  It's something, like I said, that
I'll never forget, for sure.
Q.  The Nations Club has been touted as a possible
Scottish Open venue, can you tell us what you think about the
facility over there, and can you see the Scottish Open possibly
being held there?
ADAM SCOTT:  There was talk of that yesterday.  They were
telling me it's potentially going there in a few years time.  The
facility is fantastic.  I've enjoyed being over there.  They've
been extremely courteous to me, and let me use the facilities all
last week to practice.  And I think there's no doubt that it can
host a tournament of that stature in the future.  There are still
a couple of new holes that have just been finished, but in a
couple of years, absolutely, it will be ready.  It's a tough test.
It wasn't very windy yesterday, and it was a pretty tough test.
Q.  Can I ask you about your thoughts on your good friend
Justin's U.S. Open win.  You sent him a text after the Masters.
Do you see a friendly rivalry for Majors developing between the
two of you?
ADAM SCOTT:  Well, that would only develop if he or I
were to win this week, then it would be 2-1.
But, no, look, couldn't be happier for him.  Whatever I
said in the text, I was sincere about.  I really did believe -- "I
feel like it's our time," I think is what I wrote to him.  And
that's because -- sitting on the outside of his world a little bit
and look in and can see how hard he's working, how good he is, how
much time and effort he puts into it.  And a couple of times when
we have spent time together away from a tournament, just playing
socially or something, you can just see in a guy when he's ready
and that he wants it, too.  And I saw that in Justin.
The good thing about me winning the Masters for him was
that it fired him up probably even more.  And sometimes that's all
you need.  If somebody that you know fairly well and you know
their game can do it, it gives you even more belief.
Q.  You mentioned getting here last Tuesday and doing a lot
of preparation.  You seem to build your preparation time around
the Majors over the last couple of years.  How did you come to
that process?  Why do you do it the way you do now, play less and
practice more?
ADAM SCOTT:  Well, it was simply all around the Majors,
because I had poor results in them.  So what I have been doing for
the first ten years of my career didn't work, and it took me that
long to figure it out.  I needed to do something different.  And I
just put everything else aside and said I'm just going to focus on
big events, and do what I need to do to hopefully play the best I
can at every one, especially for The Open Championship.
Coming early for me and playing a lot on the course that
we're going to play and learning it has been important for me.  I
want to feel comfortable when I'm on every tee throughout the week
in any condition.  And the more I play the course, I think, the
more I'll feel that way.
And the other part of that is, yeah, I'm enjoying
practicing more because I believe also for me that for my swing
and my short game and my putting to hold up to four days of Major
pressure, I need to put in more time practicing than playing
tournaments.
So I play a little less.  I practice a bit more.  And the
last couple of years have shown good results, much more consistent
results in the Major tournaments.
Q.  Ernie was saying the other day there are players that
might have never been able to overcome a disappointment like last
year's British Open.  What was the key, do you think, for you
being able to get past it and use it in a positive way?
ADAM SCOTT:  To be honest, I think it's probably
everything that happened before the event.  It wasn't anything
that was said to me after the event.  No matter how you react,
it's hard to console somebody who feels so terrible about it.
But I think it's all the good advice and guidance that
I've been given on how to handle playing a professional sport or
handle just being a person and having a decent perspective on all
that.  And somehow that turned into me taking Lytham as a
positive, and just pushing me harder to try to get across the line
to win a Major.
Q.  Specifically looking back, what have you learned from
those last four holes at Lytham last year?
ADAM SCOTT:  Look, I think there are lots and little bits
and pieces, but overall you just have to be tough coming down the
stretch, and I wasn't tough enough that day.  A four-shot lead
isn't enough if you're not going to be tough.  Even if you're
being tough, four shots can only just get you over the line.  And.
I played a practice round with Tom Watson at the
Australian Open last year and he waited seven holes to bring up
what happened at the Open.  He asked me, and I told him what I
thought.  And he said that he let one slip early in his career,
and he said he would never let that happen again.  He would just
be tough and want it so badly.  And sometimes maybe that has to
happen for you to realize that.  Obviously words coming from him I
took to heart.
It was a completely different situation at Augusta.  But
I felt like I played tough, especially in the playoff, because no
one's going to give you a Major.
Q.  I hate to say this to you, but it's not been the best
month for Australian sport (laughter).  Would it be nice to strike
back right at the heart of the British at the Open and claim one
back for Australia?
ADAM SCOTT:  Are you given our cricket no hope, are you,
for the rest of the summer?  (Laughter).
Yeah, look, that would be a fun story line.  But
hopefully, yeah, absolutely, I'd love to get in here this week and
maybe spur our cricket team along to leveling the test series.
It's a tough time being an Aussie over here at the moment, to be
honest with you.  I move around very quietly around town
(laughter).
Q.  Did you watch much of the cricket over the weekend?
ADAM SCOTT:  I didn't see much, I watched the run chase
on the final day, yeah, it was incredible.
Q.  What did you make of Ashton Agar?  Did you know he was
nicknamed "Scotty"?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, everyone has been telling me.  I think
it's great.  Yeah.
Honestly I hope he's the spark our Australian team needs
going forward.  He's a young kid come out 98 on debut, and can
help us in the first test.  Obviously he's got what it takes.
Hopefully he's the spark on our team going forward, for this
summer and beyond.
Q.  Have you seen the Gary Player pictures in the Body Issue
and what are your thoughts on that?
ADAM SCOTT:  No, I haven't, but I've heard about them.
Yeah.  He's a fit man, fair enough.  I wouldn't know that I'll be
going out of my way to check him out, though (laughter).
MIKE WOODCOCK:  Thanks very much, and best of luck this
week.
ADAM SCOTT:  Thank you.










END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT