THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2013
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Can you talk about your round, please?
ADAM SCOTT:  It's always hard making birdies at a Major.
They're the toughest ones to go by.  But there was a lot of good
stuff out there today.  A couple of surprises, I have to say, just
with how firm the course has gotten again overnight, even, and
especially the greens, by the end of the day.  I mean, some of
them it's like glass around the hole.  It's testing, you've got to
be really careful.  And I made a couple of great putts today but I
also let a couple slip away.  I think even is pretty reflective to
how I played.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, look, absolutely.  I think some of the
weight of Major Championship golf has been lifted off my
shoulders, for sure, and more so coming to The Open this year,
after what happened last year.  And I've got a lot of expectation
to play well this week, if I hadn't won the Masters.  And I think
it's a little easier to perform having won a Major now.  But I
still haven't won The Open and I'd dearly love to.
Q.  With the conditions in mind do you look forward to
getting off just after 9:00 tomorrow?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah.  I hear the wind might switch, so
we'll see if that happens, but that's no problem.  I've been here,
I've played a lot of rounds.  But you're always adapting to the
conditions.  Like I said, it got so much more fiery overnight,
even for today, and we'll see what happens for tomorrow, we might
have another golf course to play tomorrow on a different wind.
The best thing you can do is adapt quickly, and just, you
know, deal with the situation out there.
Q.  Was it bordering on unfair?
ADAM SCOTT:  Look, some of the pin spots are really --
they're borderline, you know.  18 is pretty close.  I mean, it's
just so dry.  And it's just like there's no friction when the ball
rolls.  It's getting pretty spooky out there.  But I guess they're
very confident that there's going to be no big wind.


 
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT