U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2013
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Your thoughts today?
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, I think I did a pretty good job.   It's tough to tell.   The weather didn't let the course play the way I think anyone really wanted, so it was a bit unfortunate and a bit of a spoiler for the week.   But I'm sure they're going to get a good finish, so that's great.

Q.   How did you do getting around with the cars and the shuttling back and forth?
ADAM SCOTT:   It's not ideal, but you have to weigh out whether that's a big enough factor for them to have it here or not and they felt that this is good old course, and it should be played here and they did it.

Q.   Some players said it was unfair and some players said it was fair.   In your opinion was it a fair golf course for guys this week?
ADAM SCOTT:   It's very different than anything else because they're having to play the golf course so much to get it, to have this even par number.   And the difference between shooting even par and shooting 3‑over is a very fine line.   It's a very fine line and they tread every year with it.   They do the best they can, you just have to play very well.   There is no room for error on a U.S. Open course like this setup this week.

Q.   With the way the pins are set up today, is par a good number?
ADAM SCOTT:   It is and it isn't.   I think that par would be a good number if you were in one of the last few groups.   But again, I felt that the greens are soft and that's the only thing I would say out there at the moment.   If you're in one of the last few groups, I think par is a great number.   Any time you're in the last groups in a U.S. Open, par is a good number. 

Q.   (No Microphone.)
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, I think that it would have been probably more enjoyable for us, but I don't know if that's the mantra of the U.S. Open, making it enjoyable. 

Q.   Should Phil win, for a hyperaggressive player like Phil, how hard is it to flip the switch and play U.S. Open golf?
ADAM SCOTT:   Well, I don't know, seems to have a great record at the U.S. Opens, so that might be the way to go.   I don't know, whatever he's doing, it's getting him pretty close and again, he's knocking right on the door today.   So he might really have it figured out. 

Q.   He's come close so many times and this tournament has broken his heart, it obviously means a lot to him.   What do you think that says about his resiliency?
ADAM SCOTT:   Well, he's one of the most experienced players out here and one of the most talented, but that doesn't mean you just get everything all at once.   He waited a long time for his first Major and then he continued to win.   And golf is just a life‑long test.   He's certainly proof of that.   And he fully would deserve it if he were to win today.

Q.   You made more birdies on the front nine than on the back.   Why do you think it was different today?
ADAM SCOTT:   I hit a lot of good putts that didn't go in.   That was the difference.   You need all your putts going in at a U.S. Open, whether you're playing good or bad, otherwise the score doesn't show up very well at all. 

Q.   I'm a fan of the long putter, you obviously are too, 2016 the USGA says no.   Would you disagree and why would they do that?
ADAM SCOTT:   Well, obviously, I disagree with that ruling, but, you know, I don't know why.   I haven't seen any really good reasons why they would do that.   I don't think there's any evidence.   It's their judgment and they have made that and I'm going to disagree with that, but it doesn't do me much good, so I'll have to adapt to those when it happens.

Q.   Hopefully the PGA doesn't go along that same road. 
ADAM SCOTT:   Well, I hope so too.   I hope they continue to be objective the way they have been with making their decisions and comments so far.   I think that would be a sensible way to do it. 

Q.   (No Microphone.)
ADAM SCOTT:   I hope an Australian wins, but other than that I'm going home. 

Q.   If Phil wins the U.S. Open today, does that change your view of him as a player?
ADAM SCOTT:   Phil? 

Q.   Yeah, Phil. 
ADAM SCOTT:   He's already one of the best players of this generation, that's for sure, and if he would win today, he would just continue to go up in everyone's estimation as one of the greatest players to ever play.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT