THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 9, 2013
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  ADAM SCOTT:   They were certainly making it look very easy.   I was looking average after 9.   We all played nicely, especially the front nine, and they kept making some putts.   I used mine up early. 
But they played beautifully.   It was a pleasure to watch today.   There was a lot of good stuff.   No one was really in any trouble, and a couple times anyone did, they scrambled.   It was professional golf out there today. 

Q.   You just didn't seem to be able to get the putts to fall, a few good putts especially that didn't go in for you. 
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, started well and then a couple didn't fall, then hit a couple ordinary ones.   I missed that one on the last, just lost the speed a little bit.   It's tough because they're quick and they can get away from you, and I had a couple putts run way by.   It's tough to judge the speed on these greens when they're quick, putting up and over rises.

Q.   Your first round back; how are you feeling coming off with this score?   It's a pretty decent score still. 
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, I played really well, I think.   Like you said, I just didn't make everything I could have.   If I did, I would have been a few better. 
But I hit the ball tee to green very nicely.   I was down the fairway most of the time and around the green often.   I'm pleased with where my game sits at the moment.   I'd like to do a little putting practice and get a better feel for the greens, but other than that I'm excited moving forward the next three days.

Q.   Did you feel like the course was set up for good scoring today?
ADAM SCOTT:   I was a little surprised when I teed off that someone was 5‑under already.   I thought it might play a little tougher than that.   But it was ideal.   There wasn't even a breath of wind hardly the front nine.   The greens seemed pretty receptive, too, so if you were in the fairway you could attack. 

Q.   What was it like on the first tee when you were announced?   Did it have a different feeling to you having now played for the first time?
ADAM SCOTT:   It was the biggest disappointment of the day was the announcement on the first tee because he didn't introduce me as the Masters Champion.   (Laughter.)







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT