MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 13, 2013
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   We welcome Adam Scott of Australia to the interview room.   Adam just finished a fine performance of 69 today with four birdies and one bogey, finishing 6‑under par on his 12th Masters appearance, currently tied for third, but great playing today. 
Your best performance was a couple years ago in 2011 where you also were in second place and we wish you the best.   Let's open it up perhaps to some questions. 

Q.   So far, so good, looks like you'll be similar to 2011 playing with Jason in the penultimate group?
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, look, today was a great day.   It seemed to play fairly tough out there, and again, with no wind, the course was tricky.   The greens were firming out and getting faster.   Had to be careful where you attacked. 
So I played fairly cautious, and kind of a blessing in disguise, I drove it fairly well, but a couple of steps in the rough and had to be cautious out of the rough and that wasn't a bad way to play today. 
So it worked out for me, made a couple of putts.   It will be great playing with Jas tomorrow and it's going to be an amazing Sunday again at the Masters.

Q.   Since you've refocused yourself on majors, you've managed to get yourself near the end quite a few times, what's going to be different about tomorrow?   What have you learned just the last, obviously the British Open last year, the last time you were here; what have you learned that you will apply tomorrow? 
ADAM SCOTT:   Well, I don't really think I need to do too much different.   You know, everything I'm doing seems to be getting me there right at the end.   You know, if I'm in the same position I was in at The Open last year tomorrow, then I'm obviously playing an incredible round and I'll just be trying to finish the job. 
A couple years ago here, I felt like I did everything I could, and it wasn't enough.   That's how it goes sometimes.   But it's going to take a great round tomorrow.   There are too many great players right there.   I know someone else is going to play well, so I'm going to need to really have a career round, and that's what, you know, these big events do for someone.   It's a career round that makes them a champion. 

Q.   Is it fair that the Australians currently on the TOUR have to bear a burden in this event because guys of another generation didn't get it done here?   Is that just always going to be part of the equation until one of you eventually kick one in?
ADAM SCOTT:   I guess so, yeah, it's just a fact.   You can't not deal with that. 
I don't know, we've got an another great chance.   We had a‑‑ a couple of us had a look at it a couple years ago, and three of us right there knocking on the door tomorrow.   So I mean, there's no better time to ever have to deal with that question again than if you go out and play good tomorrow. 

Q.   Looks like you might be paired tomorrow with Jason Day, like in 2011; is that a good thing?
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, absolutely.   I think that there's going to be a comfort level there for sure for both of us, especially with the whole vibe of 2011, just can't get carried away and expect that we are both going to go out and play beautiful golf like that. 
Tomorrow is going to be a tough day, because we are starting right in the thick of it.   And in 2011, we started well back and weren't in the mix until late in the back nine.   It's going to be a tense day, but that's a good pairing for me. 

Q.   What would it mean, not only to you to get it done, but what do you think it would mean to your country? 
ADAM SCOTT:   Well, I mean, it's hard to say exactly what it means.   I'd rather not sit here and wonder so much.   I'd rather do that if I win tomorrow. 
But, look, Aussies are proud sporting people, and we'd love to put another notch in our belt, just like any great sporting country.   This is one thing that one of us would like to do tomorrow for sure. 

Q.   You've had Steve on the bag now for a couple years, how much do you draw on his experience so far this week and how much do you draw on his knowledge and the record he's had around here? 
ADAM SCOTT:   Well, a lot.   It's just great for me to know that you've got a rock on the bag next to you.   He's solid. 
You know, I think he's also realizing that‑‑ I know he's got a level of comfort around this place and he's realizing, too, that I've developed a level of comfort.   We are not treading on each other's toes too much out there.   More and more we are on the same wavelength, so that's what you're looking for in this kind of relationship.   So obviously his experience counts for a lot on that. 

Q.   Is it fair to say that you're letting it come to you a little bit more; in years past you maybe went very aggressively for it and maybe made some mistakes?
ADAM SCOTT:   Something like that.   I think I just didn't know how to play the majors in years past (laughing).   I just didn't play smart enough or well enough for that matter.   You know, my confidence was too easily affected by a poor shot or a poor hole and was a bit too fragile probably.   But I think there's a lot more to it than that.   Part of the preparation and the way you get ready protects you from being fragile, as well, I think. 
So I feel like I'm doing all of these things better, and that's why it's coming a little bit more often or ‑‑ not easier, none of it is easy, but it feels a little easier than when it was never coming. 

Q.   What was the turning point in that process for you? 
ADAM SCOTT:   You know, I think identifying a few things at the start of 2011 and changing my schedule and being a bit different and doing it the way I believed was best and the people around me felt was best, and not necessarily what everyone else does, and just doing things the way that worked for me.   And that's sometimes hard to do when you're in a routine out there on the TOUR. 
I had to step out of that, and I've played a lot less tournaments, but I've put in some good work practicing and I've kind of seen the results and a bit of a balance.   And I've had less chances to win tournaments, but more to win majors, and that's kind of where my focus was.   So I think I'm achieving that. 

Q.   Could you talk a little bit about what Greg means to you and to the other Aussies and what it felt like when you were watching him? 
ADAM SCOTT:   Well, Greg, he was my idol as a kid, and he was on and off the best player in the world for ten years, as I was 6 to 16; so he had a huge influence on me and any other kid growing up playing golf, or any other Australian golfer, for that matter, playing golf at that time, and beyond that time even. 
So you know, I can't speak highly enough of the way he's looked after Australian golf and what he did for us.   He was a great role model.   I think he handled himself so well in all of these situations, especially the one here was great for us to learn.   He's going to be excited watching the outcome tomorrow. 

Q.   Did you have any particular strategy entering today's round, and how might that be different tomorrow?
ADAM SCOTT:   No, I just kind of figured it out as I went around today.   You know, the greens definitely firmed up, and probably saw that by about the fourth hole, had an understanding of how the greens were playing for the day and what that would mean for certain pin positions as we made our way around the course.   So you just kind of have to roll with it a little bit and see what it offers up and pick your spots where you can actually be a little bit aggressive, because you're going to have to make some birdies to be in the hunt.   So you can't just sit back and play defensive. 
Tomorrow, you know, I feel I'm playing well, just like these other guys, and you can't just sit around and wait for it to happen.   You have to pick your moments and that's what will be the difference between the guy who wins and the guys who don't. 
MODERATOR:   Adam, great playing, best wishes tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT