MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2013
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Pretty comfortable with the two under?   Could have been better, could have been worse.   But a good start. 
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, it's a great start.   But it was a beautiful day.   I mean, it doesn't get any better than today.   I think it was really great for scoring conditions.   We're seeing lots of good scores to start the week.   So I think that I'm happy with that.   It's a start. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, that was a bonus, really on 1.   I hit a great shot out of the fairway trap and I gave it straight back on the second.   But, no, look, it was a good start and just a little brain fade on the second and then back to business. 
So overall I'm very happy.   I played how I kind of expected to.   I could have created a couple more chances, but I didn't get very greedy with my irons, so I didn't leave myself a lot of great chances. 

Q.   You talked about that start here recently has kept you behind the 8‑ball, now you're right there, 3 back, and in decent position. 
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, I just got to keep in touch, really tomorrow again.   If I can stay three back or improve that's a good spot going into the weekend. 

Q.   We looked over the weather forecast, late it looked awful. 
ADAM SCOTT:   Well, yeah, it did, but it was more of a storm.   There weren't any wind gusts or stuff happening at least.   So I was just happy to finish it today and not have to come back.

Q.   What did you see from Sergio out there today?   No bogeys. 
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, well, he was really solid.   Especially early on in the piece, he just played lovely.   And coming in, couple good saves, I mean, it was just a solid round of golf.   He played nice. 

Q.   Are you friends with him?
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah.   Known him for a long time. 

Q.   Is he emotional?   Is that a good way to describe him?   What is his personality like?
ADAM SCOTT:   That's very fair to say emotional. 

Q.   Last year Sergio, when he was here, he was really down about his chances in the Majors, if you remember that, basically saying ‑‑
ADAM SCOTT:   I think he's got no chance. 
(Laughter.)   Hopefully he's doing that this week. 
(Laughter.)

Q.   What did you think when you heard that, knowing him though?
ADAM SCOTT:   Exactly what it is.   I mean, it's a reaction to frustration and disappointment of a poor week.   He wears his heart on his sleeve and I'm sure that's how he felt at the time he said it.   So I think it's a bit of a throw away line.   I don't think he's living by that at all.

Q.   And of course you think he can win it here?
ADAM SCOTT:   Well, yeah, absolutely.   He's got more than potential to win any tournament he plays in. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
ADAM SCOTT:   It was good.   I mean, great playing from him and whatever the score was that was posted was going to give you a kick, so I mean what a start for him in the Masters. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
ADAM SCOTT:   Nerves, for a start.   The fact that you're floating.   You're not actually on the ground.   And then I just think the green is very severe.   It's one of the most severe out here and it's the first hole of the day. 
So your nerves haven't settled, you've got, you're not a hundred percent sure on speed and stuff like that, and how hard you're going to hit the putt.   So I think the green is challenging.

Q.   The hole location today, it looked to me like one of the most challenging ones?
ADAM SCOTT:   Absolutely.   You miss it left, it just feeds left off the green and if you miss it long, it's over.   You don't really want to miss it anywhere but short.

Q.   It looked to me like one of those, there were nine birdies, which is one of the most ever there, yet it still played second hardest?
ADAM SCOTT:   Well, I think second toughest hole?   Yeah.   Absolutely.   I think that like I said, it's just a really hard hole for a start.   It was favorable conditions today, but that green was pretty receptive.   I hit my shot in and it held up pretty nicely.   I didn't think the greens were overly fast today. 

Q.   What did you hit in?
ADAM SCOTT:   8‑iron.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT