WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 1, 2012
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CHRIS REIMER:   We welcome Adam Scott to the interview room, a good round today with an exclamation point at the end, eagle to get yourself tied for the lead after the first round.   Just talk about the day if you could.  
    ADAM SCOTT:   Well, obviously a really good start.   You know, a fast finish, so it was a solid day that all of a sudden turned into a really good day.   But I hit a lot of good shots, and they ended up finishing close on the last couple holes and I took advantage of that.   
    With five par 5s, it kind of sets up well for my game, and the plan is to just take advantage of the 5s and hopefully hang in there with the leaders all week.   
   
 Q.   Can you just take us through the clubbing of those finishing holes, please, and what happened?   
    ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, I hit a driver and a 2‑iron on the 7th and it was just on the fringe, pin‑high, and I 2‑putted from the fringe.   I hit a 7‑iron into the 8th and it rolled up the hill to about a foot to the hole.   And I hit a driver and a 2‑iron into the 9th, and that finished about ten feet short.   
   
 Q.   How often do you bring your 2‑irons?   Is it for this event especially?   
    ADAM SCOTT:   No, I use the 2‑iron all the time.   
   
 Q.   When you say you use a 2‑iron all the time, have you ever tried a hybrid, or are you happy being sort of an old‑fashioned player who likes a 2‑iron?  
    ADAM SCOTT:   I have used a hybrid before, and I can't even‑‑ I'd better own up.   It's not like a traditional 2‑iron.   It's probably got a little more meat than probably a bladed 2‑iron from the 80s or 70s, even.   So it's a little more user‑friendly than just your regular 2‑iron.   
   
 Q.   You had quite a few weeks after the FedExCup.   Were you practising or was it just relaxing, preparing for the end of the season?   And how is the run towards the end of the season looking for you?   
    ADAM SCOTT:   I had a couple weeks off relaxing where I didn't play hardly any golf.   And the last few weeks, I've been in Australia at home and I've just been playing a lot, playing with my parents and playing with my friends, just trying to keep fresh and loose and moving out on the golf course.   
    There hasn't been a lot of serious practise, just a little bit, but mostly I've been playing the last few weeks.   
    And the run for the rest of the year, I'm playing Singapore next week and then the Australian Masters and then the Australian Open the first week of December.   
   
 Q.   There's been some talk some week among some players about the possible ban of the long putter, the belly putter; what would your take on that be if it were to come to pass, and do you think this is fair to the players who use it?   
    ADAM SCOTT:   Well, that's all it is at the moment is just talk and rumours and speculation.   I haven't heard any statement from anybody in power that indicates anything other than they are having a look at it.   
    And my question to that would be, what's their criteria for having a look at it.   I've yet to hear anything.   So anything I could say at the moment is just hearsay or rumour.   
    I'm sure there is some talk, but you know, there's no real facts to go on.   I mean, my point right off for the whole thing is, what is their criteria for 'banning' anchoring putting, or whatever you want to call it.   I don't know.   No one's given me a good reason yet.   
   
 Q.   On the same subject, some players are discussing it at the moment.   Have you spoken to the likes of Webb Simpson and Keegan Bradley?   
    ADAM SCOTT:   I haven't spoken to them.   I haven't even spoken much with Tim Clark, who is a good friend of mine, about it.   I don't know, I mean, we can discuss all we want but until somebody of importance says something that's relevant, we just talk around in circles about it.  
   
 Q.   Keegan was suggesting that he might effectively try to take legal action and get players together to consider taking legal action; would you think that would be a fair thing to do?   
    ADAM SCOTT:   Well, I don't know.   I mean, I don't‑‑ I'd still be surprised if they could completely out law anchoring putting.   But you know, you'd have to deal with that if it were to be brought in.  
    I don't know, for me, personally, I don't feel it's as big a deal maybe as for some others.   I've played at a high level with both styles of putting.   Other guys who haven't, might be a bit more of a change for them.   
    But I still kind of revert back to my question before is, why?   I haven't read anything or heard anything that seems relevant to me.   
   
 Q.   On a little different track with the long putter, can you talk about how difficult it was for you to adjust to it at first, and where there's benefit still in the short putter versus the long putter, if there are any for you.   
    ADAM SCOTT:   Well, the first day it felt very strange, but I personally took to it quite quickly.   I feel, thinking back about it, within a couple days, I was feeling quite good because you feel good when you start making putts, you know what I mean.   
    And it's different from person to person.   It felt awkward for a day, or not even that long, but then you get a feel for it, and you can either adapt to it or you can't, and that will vary from person to person.   
    The reason I keep using it is because I find it a little easier than putting with a short putter.   I don't know, if you look at the stats this year, it doesn't say I'm putting that much better than when I did with a short putter.   But I enjoy playing golf with the long one.   
    And I don't think it's as clear‑cut, that it's better on short putts or better on long putts than the short or long putter when you balance them off.   It's not; it's just putting.   It's the same thing.   You have to read the green and you have to hit it at the right speed.   
    But all of putting is still a learned skill no matter what way you do it, with a short one or a long one.   I don't think it's better on short ones.   For me personally, it's just been better the last couple years.   It was a different way for me to putt because I was frustrated; like, if you're frustrated hitting it sideways, you might find a different method to swing a club.   
    CHRIS REIMER:   Thank you, good luck.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT