BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 8, 2012
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Just one bogey.   Well played.   
ADAM SCOTT:   I played well again today, and obviously to have any chance to contend tomorrow I had to make some sort of a move, and it all kind of came together around the turn, and I played fairly solid.   Disappointing to drop one coming in because I'm making a habit of that, but I picked one up on the last, and that was important.  
   
 Q.   Around the turn is where this course needs to be gotten, doesn't it?   
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, it is.   If you're hitting good shots, at the moment with it so soft, you can get this course.   But around the turn is a big opportunity.   You can get a couple looks at eagle.   They didn't go for me today, but two‑putt birdies always help.  
   
 Q.   Your iron play had to be stellar because you only made one 15‑footer all day.   
ADAM SCOTT:   No, it's been really solid.   It's been good all week and last week, and today is the first day that I've gotten any rhythm with the putter, and it took missing a few greens early on and I had to scramble to actually make some putts.   But that was kind of a blessing in disguise, I think.  
   
 Q.   This ought to be a fun Sunday, huh?  
ADAM SCOTT:   It's going to be, yeah.   The crowd is pretty rowdy, and it's an incredible leaderboard.   It's going to be fun.   I'm glad I put myself in this position.   
   
 Q.   Just talk about your round.   
ADAM SCOTT:   I played well again.   You know, I putted nicely today for the first time in a couple weeks, and it took missing a few greens early on and me having to chip and putt and actually have to make a couple putts, and I got going with it, around the turn made some nice putts and left myself a lot of chances.   But I needed to do something today to even have a shot at being in contention tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   What do you make of these last two, three weeks where it almost looks like a golf all‑star game on the leaderboard?   It seems like it's been that way a lot.   
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, I'm surprised it hasn't been more like that, but I guess it's an important few weeks bunched together, and seeing how motivated everyone really is to make the run to East Lake.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
ADAM SCOTT:   I'm hitting the ball beautiful.   I have for a long time this year.   But everything else today, I hit some great shots with the irons, some long irons, some 3‑woods into greens, on 11, and it was just really solid stuff, which is a nice way to play.   If I can do it again tomorrow, if I'm going to give myself a chance, I'm going to have to go really low again.  
   
 Q.   Talk about wanting a win and being in position to get it.   
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, I'm not in the best position, but coming from a few back seems to be the way to go at the moment in golf.   You never know, if I can get off to a hot start and put myself in the mix, there are opportunities out there.   We've seen a bunch of 64s made or even lower.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
ADAM SCOTT:   I hit a 3‑iron into 15 that actually ended up missing the green, but it was just a beautiful shot.   It pitched right next to the hole and just kind of kept trickling and dribbled all the way down.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT