PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2012
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Talk about coming back from last night and how you played today.   
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, I played well again, just a couple errors on the par‑5s.   I was in good position, but a couple poor shots and ended up making 6 from a position I should be making 4.   You know, it's put me a little bit behind the 8‑ball starting this afternoon.   Going to have to play very well and make some putts.   
   
 Q.   27 holes physically isn't that big a deal.   What kind of mental toughness is it going to take on a long day like today on a golf course like this?  
ADAM SCOTT:   Well, I think this afternoon is the last round of a major in contention.   Obviously to have a good round and try and win requires mental toughness.   You know, the 27 is not a big deal, but I think this afternoon as it comes down to the back nine, especially at this golf course, is going to require everyone's skill to be at their best.   
   
 Q.   Did your game plan change this morning because the conditions were benign and you could be more aggressive?  
ADAM SCOTT:   No, I just played the way I thought the course needed to be played.   There wasn't much change, maybe just off the 13th tee I wasn't planning on hitting an iron off that tee this week, and today I did, and I hit a poor one, but I made 4.   Like I said, it was just a couple errors on the par‑5s, but everything was good still, and I didn't make the six‑foot putts that I've been making all week.   I had about four of them this morning and missed them all.   I've got to make them this afternoon.  
   
 Q.   Given the roll that you were on yesterday afternoon, would you have liked to have finished last night?  
ADAM SCOTT:   Oh, it would have been great to finish yesterday.   Everything was going my way and I was feeling good.   I was in a good rhythm.   But it's the same for everyone, too.   You know, it could have easily been a couple, three or four shots better this morning just with a couple putts, and I think it can be this afternoon.   
   
 Q.   So now what during the break?   
ADAM SCOTT:   Just get some lunch and come back out and do the normal routine.   You know, I still feel like 70 was a good score, third round of the PGA.   It wasn't that easy yesterday, and I kept myself in this tournament with a chance.   We've all seen four back is no big deal (smiling).   
   
 Q.   Given that you are four back, will you be a little more aggressive this afternoon?   
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, we'll just have to see how the wind goes, but in all likelihood I'm going to have to make some birdies because it's not just me who's four back.   There's quite a good leaderboard, and there are going to be some birdies made.   I'm just going to have to create some opportunities.   I don't know if that's being aggressive.   But certainly it would be a good afternoon to get the putter hot.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT