THE PRESIDENTS CUP
December 9, 2019
Ernie Els
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Ready for this?
ADAM SCOTT: For us, a bit fresh -- they are really ready to go so I'm kind of really feeding off that young energy that's running here this week.
Q. You're the veteran and been here almost nine times now. What's your advice to the young guys?
ADAM SCOTT: Well, at the moment, I really don't want to put too much in their heads. They are young players. They are here. They have qualified. They are pretty good, you know, and I want to get the most out of them and I don't want to influence them in any way unless they really have a query. We are just kind of getting a feel of things at the moment, and hopefully I can be useful if I need it.
Q. What are your thoughts on the Patrick Reed situation?
ADAM SCOTT: I guess it's all kind of played itself out now. They have dealt with it. The officials have dealt with it, and then we're moving on.
Q. As an Aussie, is there extra motivation to give the home fans something to celebrate?
ADAM SCOTT: Absolutely. I think a big goal for me out there playing this week is to play really great, and kind of win the crowd and get them inspired to cheer us home to a victory and then invite them to celebrate with us.
Q. Do you have the pairings in your head for Thursday?
ERNIE ELS: Yes.
Q. Can you share them with us?
ERNIE ELS: Sure, sure. We put some work into it. The guys know where they stand. Very clear of what we expect and what we are doing on Thursday and Friday, especially. So yeah, we're going accordingly.
Q. How pleased are you with the team you've been able to put together?
ERNIE ELS: I'm very pleased. As Adam says, we have a great mix of experience and youth. Happy to have some youth on our side because of how things have gone the last couple of Cups.
The experienced guys are guiding some of the rookies around, and with a little bit of my help. We've played the golf course many times. It's all preparation and going smooth.
Q. Does it add pressure to perform --
ERNIE ELS: There's always pressure -- there's no secret about that. We're basically playing at home here and we have a go at it, and that's how the guys are approaching it.
Q. How does it change having Tiger Woods being a playing captain? How do you address that? How do you combat that?
ERNIE ELS: Well, he's a playing captain. It hasn't been done in quite a few years. You know, 25 years. There's a lot of help for him obviously and we'll see how it goes. I don't know how many sessions he's going to play, but obviously he's a big asset to their team, and we can only do what we do.
We've got to control what we do, play the way we want to play and then hopefully it's good enough.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT