AT&T NATIONAL
July 1, 2012
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, definitely going to the 10th tee, I had the opportunity to post a number with a really good back nine, but I just didn't hit good enough shots overall on the back nine.   12 through 16 was really scrappy golf, and I did well only to drop a couple shots.   It was a little disappointing in that respect, but I got half of what I needed to do, and it's a work in progress.   But good to play well the last three days.   The story of my year; I need to try and play well for four days.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, well, my stats certainly didn't help.   You can if and but and you can argue, but my 3‑over through 3 was due to my very brief warmup on Thursday, and that might end up being the difference between winning and not this week.   I only have myself to blame, but it's been very hot, and an incredible effort by everyone here to get us out playing.   I'm really glad we were able to get the last 36 in because I wanted to test my game on this golf course and enjoy it very much.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)   
ADAM SCOTT:   It was quite bizarre yesterday, but to be quite honest, it was quite pleasant today.   It's been really hot this weekend, and it was nice to just kind of have a bit of a walk in the park yesterday, and maybe the pressure of galleries taken off a little bit of the heat yesterday.   
   
 Q.   Can you comment on the last two weeks, you saw Webb post a score last week and Marc Leishman do the same thing?   What are you thinking right now?  
ADAM SCOTT:   Well, I think I probably needed to post two better than what I did, and like I said, going to the 10th tee, that was certainly possible the way I was playing, and that's what I imagined I was going to do.   But I just didn't hit the fairways between 12 and 16 and got myself in a bit of trouble.   On this course to come from far behind the lead, you're going to have to play almost flawless golf, and I wasn't quite able to do that, but still happy to post a good round.   I've got to keep saying that I've got to build on it, but I pretty soon have to take advantage of some good golf that I'm playing because I'm not at the moment.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT