HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 16, 2012
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We would like to welcome Adam Scott into the interview room here at the HP Byron Nelson Championship, making his fourth start at this event, his first since 2009.   Adam, you're a former winner, 2008.   Talk about the feelings you have coming back.   
ADAM SCOTT:   It's good to be back for sure.   It fits nicely into my schedule this year, so you always love coming back to a place where you have had success, and in two of the three outings, I have played well here.   Looking to build on that and also build on my play this year; it's been solid, but looking to get a better result here this week.   
   
 Q.   What is it about the course that seems to suit with you, and what do you think will be the keys to keeping your momentum going and trying to win again this week?   
ADAM SCOTT:   I think there is a real advantage if you drive the golf ball well around here.   Not necessarily because it's long or the fairways aren't that generous.   If you can get driver down there and hit shorter clubs in from the fairway, there is a chance to score.   The greens are receptive.   
For me that's‑‑ a strong part of my game is driving and if I'm on with that, I can hopefully take advantage it with some good shots in.   
   
 Q.   Adam, you were sort of easing your way into the season.   Do you feel that you are fully into the season now?   
ADAM SCOTT:   Oh, yeah, absolutely.   I haven't played that much, but now the scheduling is pretty much set out.   It's easy to see what we're all going to play, it's a lot in the next 20 weeks or so, everyone is playing a fair few tournaments.   
It a good time to be really picking up momentum, and I have played well all year, but I have not put four days together.   There has just been that one round that's always let me down, and if I can tighten it up a little bit, then I think I'll be in good shape.   
   
 Q.   Adam, what changes have you noticed out on the course if you've been out there yet, and how do they suit your game, good or bad?   
ADAM SCOTT:   Well, the only really obvious one was the tree was gone in front of the 14th green.   Other than that, I would have missed any others.   I think the course is setting up great.   I like the surface of the greens here, and it's in good condition.   Like I said, for me, if I drive the golf ball well here, I feel like I can shoot good scores.   If not, then it's going to be a challenge.   The greens aren't that big so coming from the fairway is important.   
   
 Q.   When you were setting up your schedule at the start of the year, how did this fit in this year as opposed to previous years?   
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, obviously it's a date change, I believe, this year, the two Texas ones switched, and last year I played PLAYERS, Colonial; this year I'm playing PLAYERS and here.   It's a nice couple of weeks for me, where I want to play and hopefully build some momentum heading into the summer of golf really.   
It fit in the same week as I would have played last year, but, you know, like John alluded to, it's a little extra special coming back to a place where you have had success.   
   
 Q.   You talked about how you have not put four days consecutively together.   Is there something about your game that you've been working on?   Is there a specific part of your game that you've been concentrating on?   
ADAM SCOTT:   No, I think it's‑‑ to be honest, I haven't putted this year as well as I did last year.   It's a couple of three‑putts at the wrong time is what I felt like it's been most weeks, and that's certainly stops any momentum you have and can prevent it from coming quite easily.   I felt last week the same thing, I threw in a couple of three‑putts in a five‑hole stretch that really hurt, especially around a tough golf course like that where it's hard to pick up shots all the time.   It's demanding all the way around.   
Similar stuff at the Masters, I haven't putted quite as well, and I think that's the only difference.   Hopefully that turns around.   I'm working on it and need to start seeing a few more going in.   
   
 Q.   Adam, you're really a 12‑month‑a‑year player.   How difficult is it to set your schedule?   Has it become harder throughout your career?   
ADAM SCOTT:   Well, I think it changes throughout your career.   I think when you're 20 years old you can play 35 weeks a year, you just are so excited to be out there and it's a different thing.   As it changes, and your perspective on how you want to work changes, and priorities, and how I feel about practice now is different than it used to be.   
It's very difficult because every week there is a great tournament on, and it's hard sometimes to sit at home and see guys go at it, and you're at home practicing, passing up the chance.   
I really took a good look last year and made a focus to try and prepare myself the best‑‑ every tournament but certainly focus on the Majors, and I felt I needed to "up" the amount of practice I did at home away from the TOUR to make sure I can consistently "show up" at big tournaments.   I just needed to do more practice.   So far I think it's proved that it's working.   It hasn't got a win, but my results are much more consistent, even in the five since I've started implementing this.   
So some weeks it's hard to sit at home because I want to be out there, and I see guys going at it on Sunday down the stretch and I want to be in that position, but I think it's a bit of a patience game for me at the moment, because it's all going to happen as soon as I can get the momentum happening here.   I feel like I'm going to be in that position every time I play.   
   
 Q.   This is the first time you have been here since the redesign.   Can you talk about the difference from when you played and after it was redesigned and how the closing stretch is.   
ADAM SCOTT:   The first time I played here we were on two courses, still, and the redesign, bringing it to one course was a great change for this tournament, and it's a demanding golf course.   It's got small greens, so when it's windy it becomes very difficult.   You don't hit a lot of greens, and the short game has to be sharp around the greens.   The wind is the big thing that can protect this golf course.   If it's not windy, it's in perfect condition, and everyone plays so good, some guys‑‑ there will be a bunch of guys who have their week this week and shoot their numbers, unless the wind gets up.   
THE MODERATOR:   Adam, we appreciate your time.   Thank you, sir.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT