THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2012
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  ADAM SCOTT:   Overall, very happy with that start.   It was a little tricky this afternoon.   The greens certainly were fiery.   
   
 Q.   The last four years have been kind of a struggle for you.   Has it been nice to get off to a good start this time around and kind of put those four years to bed a little bit?   
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, I can think of a lot of good reasons why I was struggling here the last few years.   But, there's no excuses.   But overall my memories of this place are fantastic.   I've played a lot of good golf here and I feel the course sets up well for me.   So I'm confident coming in.   My game is in good shape.   I'm just trying to keep myself on pace with the leaders.   
   
 Q.   You have to grind over almost every shot out here, don't you; there's no shot you can take off?  
ADAM SCOTT:   No.   Like I said, any shot you miss, whether it's a tee shot or an approach shot, there's pretty severe punishment, especially the way the greens are today.   
Fortunately, I played most of my golf out of the short stuff.   Made a few putts.   
So I kind of got on a roll there for 12 holes and made the most of it, and you know, a couple poor shots coming in, dropped a couple.   But overall, I'm very happy with that.   
   
 Q.   Seems the greens are not as quick.   
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, back the year I won, they were really quick, but it was a whole different ballgame then.   
I don't know if I've seen them this quick since we had the change in 2007.   They were spicy today.   It was very, very quick.   Maybe the quickest greens we've seen this year anywhere.   
   
 Q.   What was the key on 11 the eagle?   
ADAM SCOTT:   Two good shots, really.   Nice drive, but then I hit a nice 4‑iron.   Tough to hold that green today.   It was just a good number and it landed just on the front, rolled up the back, and 35 feet across the green; nice putt.   
That's a bonus, for sure, because you know, I kept the momentum going with a good save on 10 out of the bunker, and then really got going on 11 with the eagle and then birdied 12.   Was feeling good going to the 13th tee.   
But you know, this course, there's no let‑up, like you said.   And just one little mental error, and bogey jumps in real quick.   
   
 Q.   The putt on 17 was pretty sensational.   How did you‑‑ what was the read on that?   
ADAM SCOTT:   I took my time on that one for sure, because although it's one you think you just get over the hill and get down there, it keeps running toward the water beyond the hole.   You know, I was stalling a little bit coming in, and it would have been a real shame to drop another easy shot with a 3‑putt there.   So we took our first time, and sent it out quite wide and came down at the right speed.   So a good read from Steve.   We worked hard on the greens today, and that's what we've been doing.   I feel like I've been reading the greens most of this year, and haven't done the best job of it, and he's been confirming a lot of lines for me, so it's been good work.   
   
 Q.   You played well today but you haven't played a lot this year.   Has it been tough to kind of get any kind of momentum going?   What's that sort of challenge been like for you?   
ADAM SCOTT:   Well, I guess, yeah, I'd have to say it's been tough because I haven't really got any momentum going.   I've played okay when I've played‑‑ I've played well, and it's not really frustrating me because I'm quite happy to go out there and play well.   Just I haven't put four good days together yet.   The signs were there at Doral.   First couple of days were really solid and a slow weekend.   There was some good stuff at Augusta and I couldn't quite put it all together.   
Each week I've played, I feel like I'm playing well, and again here.   It's going to happen.   I think there's a lot of golf upcoming; in the next 20 weeks I'm playing quite a lot.   At least I'm fresh, and I'll be working hard the next three days to create that momentum.   
But overall, I'm very pleased with where my game sits.   
   
 Q.   We're doing a little story on the transition from being out there, coming in here, and how different that is.   Can you talk about you're in the elements, with the fans and grinding away and all of a sudden you go in there and it's very tranquil.   What is that transition like for a player?   
ADAM SCOTT:   Well, around this course, definitely there's in relief no matter how you play.   I think if you've played well and survived out there, you know, you've done great work and you get to come in and completely unwind.   You take a deep breath and exhale.   And you probably do the exact same thing if you've had an absolute shocker out there, too, because it's that kind of course; if you're off, you can embarrass yourself, and I've done it out there.   I've shot 80 out here for sure, and easy one to do it on.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT