BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 29, 2012
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How would you reflect on this week?   
ADAM SCOTT:   Well, quite disappointing really.   After playing quite a good round on Thursday, which was the tough day, I played my way right out of it on Friday.   
So you know, the golf was there but not when it needed to be on Friday unfortunately.   
   
 Q.   Respectable finish on the leaderboard.   
ADAM SCOTT:   I guess so.   I guess it is some consolation to put together a nice weekend.   You can always take some confidence from playing well.   It's better than battling around for nothing special.   
Nice to be able to make some birdies, hitting some good shots, and I'll take that stuff with me back to the States and hopefully put four days together at my next outing.  
   
 Q.   And you do take confidence, you feel the game is getting together nicely?  
ADAM SCOTT:   The game is right there.   I mean, three really good rounds this week, and away with the fairies on Friday.   
I've got to‑‑ it's all right there.   I'm very confident with where it's at, and I saw it there at the Masters.   It came through on the weekend there.   It's come through here.   It's soon going to be putting me in position for four good rounds.  
   
 Q.   And there are some good, big things coming up, aren't there?  
ADAM SCOTT:   I think so.   It's a good time to be starting to play good and make the most of this summer, three majors still left this year, and THE PLAYERS Championship among other things.   Lots to play for.   
   
 Q.   Are we going to see you back in Europe apart from the Open?   
ADAM SCOTT:   I don't think so, no.   It's just so hard to play both schedules and I did that for such a long time.   At the moment I need a break from both, and just focus on one.   So it's a tough decision, because I do enjoy so much playing in Europe, and the way that Tour is.   I think one day I'll be back on it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT