THE PRESIDENTS CUP
November 15, 2011
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Adam, can you just talk a little about the course and how you like it, how it's playing, please? 
 ADAM SCOTT: Royal Melbourne is certainly one of my favorite courses in Australia, and you know, it's the unique Sandbelt style of this region, something that we all love playing. You know, it's playing very, very nicely at the moment. I think it's in fantastic condition. 
 The greens are exceptionally firm. It's probably just because they are fairly new still after the rebuilding of them. So you know, I like the way it's playing. It's just good to be out there and playing on a fantastic golf course. 

 Q. I saw one hole out there on the 10th and the Americans came through and they were all on the high side of the hole and the Internationals came through and they were under the hole. As the local are you telling the boys to leave the ball under the hole? Is that a fair observation? 
 ADAM SCOTT: Well, you can try and leave it under the hole out here. It's not that easy on a lot of them. It's very, very firm and the fact is, you're just not going to be able to play them under the hole all week. You can get punished for trying to be too cute and leaving it under the hole. Sometimes you're just going to have to hit your shot and accept that you're going to have a fast putt. 
 There is certainly a lot to take in on this golf course, and you get to play it for two days, and you there's a chance that some of our team, with a little more experience here, have a little better understanding of how to get it around the golf course.

 Q. So are you standing on every tee or fairway with the local guys and international guys and giving them a brief on every hole or does it work that way? 
 ADAM SCOTT: Well I played with guys today who had played the course and we were all fairly comfortable with lines. Ernie and Charl, just refreshing themselves a little bit with the golf course and familiarizing again. 
 Obviously Ernie has a fantastic record here, and you know, just seeing it. It's playing slightly different than it ever has. The fairways are certainly a touch slower than in the past but other than, that it's still playing the same. 

 Q. Last night did you get out and push the bus or direct traffic? Greg told us the story about getting to and from the restaurant?
 ADAM SCOTT: I actually wasn't on that bus. I wasn't involved in any of that. I just heard about it a few minutes ago.

 Q. Just with the greens, you said they are firm, if it gets to be blowing later in the week, any sense there?
 ADAM SCOTT: Well, I think that depends more on the speed than the firmness. You know, I said they were extra firm this week and they are firmer than I've ever seen them. They will just have to watch the speed. 
 If it blows, you know, they can't afford to get any quicker than they were today, but there's also a fair chance of getting some rain this week, too, so I wouldn't like to see them slow them up too much, because if the moisture gets into them, they will slow up anyway.

 Q. How have you played here before? 
 ADAM SCOTT: How have I played here? I've played this course quite well. Ernie won the Heineken and I finished second. You know, I've had a few good results here. You know, that one was memorable because Ernie had such an incredible week and I kind of came from nowhere on Sunday to make it a tournament. It's a classic Sandbelt golf course and just a pleasure to play, really, one of those great courses in the world.

 Q. There's been a lot of talk about a possible pairing of you and Tiger; what are your thoughts on that?
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, absolutely, it's probably inevitable in these events. I've played him before. You know, it's going to be a tough point to win like every other point. But that's the goal is to go and try to get a point out of it. 

 Q. Is that playing in your mind at all or Steve's mind or have you spoken to Tiger about it? 
 ADAM SCOTT: No, we'll just see what happens with the pairings come out I guess. If it's right thing, if Greg thinks it's the right match to put out there, just go out there, like I said and try to win a point. I don't think there's too much point worrying about it. I have to play four hard matches and none of them are going to be easy.

 Q. In the last couple of weeks, you've dealt with it pretty well. Do you feel that's behind you or it's still going on? 
 ADAM SCOTT: Look, I don't think it's going to change things. There's a pretty good chance we're not walking around the fairways together in this competition. It would be different if it was a stroke-play event. It's very different, head-to-head, 18-hole match play. 
 You know, just try and focus on winning a point.

 Q. Greg sounds like he's really desperate to win The Presidents Cup, and the Internationals' record is not that great, and you seem pretty hell bent on winning this event; is he really determined to finally win for the internationals? 
 ADAM SCOTT: Absolutely. The whole team is very determined, everyone on this team. You know, I've played in it before and everyone's been on the losing team, except Ernie. Ernie is the only guy on our team who has won one. I think we are very determined to win this week, but, like I said, every point is going to be hard-earned. They are a great team, and good golf is the only answer to that.

 Q. Any thoughts on who you might possibly pair up with?
 ADAM SCOTT: You know, my thoughts are very open on that, after playing in four Cups now, and having theories and changing them, and reassessing, I think for me personally, I think I can play with anyone on this team, and be a successful pairing. I don't really think it matters that much, especially around this kind of golf course, so I'll be comfortable with any of the other 11 guys. 

 Q. Would you describe what it's like now that it's here, what the buzz sort of is in Australia, for Australia? 
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, it's certainly come around quick. But you know, thinking about my friends and family and more friends up at home, a lot of people are coming down for us down here, to get a group of 24 guys, the best golfers in the world to come down, it's been 13 years since that's happened. And I think everyone is very excited to come down and see all of the great players coming down here and I think they are all so excited to get behind our team and support us and hopefully help us onto a victory.

 Q. Any thoughts on the Americans wearing the Australian national colors? 
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, I was a little jealous of that. (Laughter).

 Q. Not sure if you addressed this, but Ishikawa gets in this afternoon?
 ADAM SCOTT: I think he's here, yeah. 

 Q. How is it going to be for him to only have one round around this course before the competition starts? 
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, that's obviously not ideal preparation for him, but you know, he's a very good golfer, so hopefully he can take a lot in tomorrow. I know the captains and whoever he plays with tomorrow will certainly be helping in bits here and there and hopefully it's not too much for him to take in. But you know, again, we are talking about one of the best players in the world. He's going to be able to handle it I think. 

 Q. What's the difference you sense in Greg now coming back, you've played for him before, being a captain, but the difference in him and the excitement level of playing in Australia and on one of his favorite golf courses?
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, like for me, Greg being an Australian, this is a very exciting week for him. I really truly believe for me it's going to be one of the highlights of my career, no matter what the result. It's going to be very memorable. 
 I'm thinking he would probably feel the same. Obviously we would like to be on the winning side, make it very memorable. But I think he's got now one year of captaincy under his belt. I think he's got a better plan in place. He feels more comfortable. I think he feels more comfortable dealing with the whole team. 
 He has everything under control. It's a very positive message that I feel we are getting from Greg. He's making us feel all very comfortable, so I like the way our team is looking. 

 Q. Just as a member of the team playing foursomes, which we all don't often get the chance to play, different mind-set, is it, for a player, or do you just try not to think about, gee, if I stuff this shot, my teammate is not going to be happy?
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, you can't think about that because that's going to happen at some point. You're not going to hit every shot perfect most likely.
 But, yeah, foursomes is a tough game. But I think again, we can always over-complicate things, and if we go out there and play to our abilities, then it shouldn't be too hard. So let's try and keep it simple and just deal with each shot as it comes along. I mean, there's no secret to it. It's an interesting course for any kind of match play. 

 Q. What do you make of the team bonding last night of the bus incident? 
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, I actually was already gone. I wasn't on the bus. I guess those guys showed a bit of muscle and got the bus back up and running. But it was a nice evening for all of us to be together and so far it's been a lot of fun.

 Q. Obviously if things are all squared up and heading into Sunday and you happen to be in that final match where it's the deciding match, is that something you would sort of look forward to? 
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, absolutely. That's why you want to play. I think it's taken a few years to really realize that's how you have to approach it. You have to play well and you can't hide out here. For me to be in that position, that's what I've worked hard for. It's like playing down the stretch at a major. It's the same kind of feeling, and maybe more pressure. You've got 11 other guys that you try to carry at that point, and the whole week, I think on the balance it would be fantastic. I would welcome that opportunity. 

 Q. I think you had a chance a couple of Sundays ago to come out for a members day; how much of an advantage is that?
 ADAM SCOTT: Well, it felt good going out there today knowing exactly what I needed to do. I didn't have to focus too much. I pretty much knew where I needed to go on every hole. 
 It was just seeing it, playing a little faster than it was two weeks ago, they have brought the height of the surfaces down and it's playing a lot faster. But line-wise I'm feeling very comfortable, so I think it was worthwhile for me to come down for a couple of days while I was around and get comfortable with the golf course.

 Q. There's talk they might give the greens one more cut in anticipation of rain this weekend, is that dicey to do that or do they have it under control?
 ADAM SCOTT: I would like to think they have it all under control. I'm sure they know what they are doing.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT