WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 6, 2011
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Thoughts on the four days, first of all.   
 ADAM SCOTT: Very disappointing today. Much like yesterday, although yesterday was saved with a brilliant finish and today wasn't.   
 But I just struggled with my rhythm on the weekend and hopefully it's not too big a deal. But you know, good to kind of be in the mix for a little bit, anyway, and get ready for the next couple of weeks, which are obviously very important.   
  
  Q. Is there anything more to be said with regard to Stevie?   
 ADAM SCOTT: No. I think everyone has said their peace on it now, and hoping we all move forward and you know, put the matter to rest.  
  
  Q. Have you seen a statement issued by the TOUR?  
 ADAM SCOTT: I believe there is one coming out, yes.   
  
  Q. Have you seen it?   
 ADAM SCOTT: Yes.   
  
  Q. Are you comfortable with what it said?   
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, I think absolutely comfortable with what it says. I don't think anyone condones racism in sport or anything. So, comfortable with it.   
  
  Q. Stevie will caddie with you next week and the following week?  
 ADAM SCOTT: Absolutely.  
  
  Q. Do you think it was a distraction for you?  
 ADAM SCOTT: No.   
  
  Q. Do you anticipate speaking to Greg about it at all?   
 ADAM SCOTT: You know, I don't see it being an issue moving forward. I think from my side of things and my team, the matter has been put to bed, and you know, I've got nothing more to talk about it with anyone. So I'm moving on.   
  
  Q. Is there a sense next week you could find yourself in the middle of a feeding frenzy? People thought if he took the next two weeks, off you would be spared the media attention next week and at The Presidents Cup.  
 ADAM SCOTT: Well, hopefully it's just for my good play rather than anything else. I don't think there's a story going forward.   
  
  Q. Did Stevie ever say to you, it might be a good idea if he stepped off the bag for a couple of weeks?   
 ADAM SCOTT: No.   
  
  Q. Do you think there would be attention if you're grouped with Tiger?  
 ADAM SCOTT: I'm sure there would be attention. It's just normal playing with Tiger.   
  
  Q. Do you expect an intense dynamic with Stevie and Tiger's potential reaction to it?  
 ADAM SCOTT: Could be an interesting dynamic.   
  
  Q. Have you talked to Tiger at all?  
 ADAM SCOTT: No.   
  
  Q. The statement says something about nobody condones racism but what would you say to those people that by doing nothing, you are condoning racism, a racist statement, what would you say to that answer?   
 ADAM SCOTT: Look, I don't digging for a story out of me on this is a good idea.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT