DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 4, 2011
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Thanks very much, Adam. 71 today. I'd imagine on this golf course the way the greens are putting, perhaps you think that this is the one that got away a little bit?
 ADAM SCOTT: Maybe, yeah. The front nine was a little scrappy but I played really solid on the back, and I got nothing going. But it was hard to get the ball really close today. The greens were a little bit firmer. 

 Q. Did conditions change much over the course of the day?
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, I think even from the time when I walked on the range until I got to the 1st tee, the wind certainly strengthened a lot. I don't know that we saw any real low scores out there this afternoon. It was playing pretty difficult.

 Q. Let's talk about tomorrow. Does it change for you your strategy at all the way you play?
 ADAM SCOTT: No, not at all. You've just got to see how it goes, and hopefully you come out and get some momentum early and you can ride it the whole way around. Someone is going to have a low score out of this group. 

 Q. You almost pulled one off there at 18. You struck the ball awfully well today. 
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, I played really solid today. I made some good saves on the front nine today and then the well kind of dried up on the back. I just couldn't quite get the ball close enough. It was tricky and I didn't want to risk too much. I put myself in the hunt. Hopefully I get them tomorrow.

 Q. What was the difficulty on the greens? Was it the speed or the wind or kind of a combination?
 ADAM SCOTT: Just one of those days where they weren't dropping for me from any range and just couldn't quite get my aim with the read. I wasn't hitting it that close, either. It was a tough day out there this afternoon.

 Q. With the bunched leaderboard you have going into tomorrow, what are your thoughts?
 ADAM SCOTT: Well, hopefully I can come out and birdie like the first five. But I'm playing well, hitting the ball well. If I can do that tomorrow, I should give myself a chance. 

 Q. Before your third round and you saw Mickelson's 63 did you think perhaps you would see other scores like that? Why wasn't that the case?
 ADAM SCOTT: I think the wind certainly strengthened while I was on the range. It wasn't that easy to get it close to the hole on a lot of holes, so I didn't feel like there were that many great opportunities out there. I kind of plodded my way around. I played really well, but nothing really happened for me today.

 Q. There are so many people jumbled on the leaderboard. Does that mean that there's a different strategy when you go out in the final round?
 ADAM SCOTT: Well, it's a golf course you can't force it on. I think you might get yourself in a bit of trouble. Hopefully you hit a lot of good shots and give yourself some good chances. One of this group is going to shoot a pretty low number tomorrow. Hopefully get a bit of momentum going early. 

 Q. Just talk about your day for us. 
 ADAM SCOTT: Well, I mean, I played fairly well. The front nine was a little scrappy, but I played really solid overall. I didn't really make any putts of any length today. I made some good saves early on in the round. It was just a tricky day on the golf course. The wind got up and the course is firming up. It's not that easy. I've kept myself in the tournament, which I'm very happy about.

 Q. Can you be aggressive on this golf course? 
 ADAM SCOTT: You've got to pick your spots. Yeah, there are some chances for sure, but you know, it requires some good ball-striking off the tee to give yourself a chance to go for the green. Playing from the rough is not easy out here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT