SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 3, 2019
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Adam, good start again this week. You had your first event last week; top 20 there. Obviously golf game seems to be pretty good right now.
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, it is. It's good. You know, I would like to have four good days this week. Last week was -- there was some good stuff, but if you're a little out of shape on that course last week you pay the price. Here it's a little more generous when there is no wind, so you got to take advantage of this morning. I kind of did, but a slow finish.
Hopefully I can kind of pick things back up when I get out there tomorrow.
Q. Started your season a little earlier. Have you been paying attention to the guys that have done that, that have played in the fall portion, the success they've had? Is that part of the reason you're playing a little earlier?
ADAM SCOTT: No, not really. It's more based around at some point I'm going to have to take a break, and, you know, after -- I finish on the 22nd of December this year in Australia, so I figure I may as well keep playing now and then take a break into the new year and come back kind of toward the east coast and be fresh and ready for like the summer and everything.
It's hard to find spots to take a break once you get past January really I think.
Q. You put a new driver in the bag last week it's got more loft.
ADAM SCOTT: Uh-huh.
Q. What's the reason behind that and what have you found that sort of advantage you have by doing that?
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, it's the same driver. Titlest TS3, but I went from 9.5 to 11.5. Look, the game has moved so far from where I started. I turned professional with a six and a half degree driver, and now I'm using eleven and a half. You know, I'm looking to keep the ball in the air to be perfectly honest with you. It's about spin and launch.
As technology progresses I have to add loft. It's amazing that I'm using eleven and a half. It's nearly like a 2-wood. (Laughter.)
Q. Obviously you mentioned through December playing Australia, Presidents Cup coming up in Australia. How much are you looking forward to that?
ADAM SCOTT: I'm very much looking forward to that. It kind of feels like a long way away. There is a lot to happen still and four picks still to be decided for our team, but so far from the start of the new season I like what I see from these guys making a real case to get themselves a pick.
Q. What were you happiest with today?
ADAM SCOTT: My score I guess. (Laughter.) Yeah, I'm playing good. I just don't have a lot of feeling at the moment. It's hard to explain. You know, I'm just kind of trusting that it is good. Brad tells me it looks all good and everything, but I just don't have a lot of really good feelings like I know exactly what I'm going to do on every shot.
I'm just trusting it, hoping like over the next couple days that kind of feeling comes in. I don't know why, but it was like that last week, too.
Q. It's the key, right, getting the four rounds together?
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah. I mean, to shoot 20-under it's hard to have an off day, so basically you have to play four really hot days.
Q. Has this happened to you much in the past where you didn't have a feeling and had to trust yourself?
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah.
Q. Oh, it has? Okay.
ADAM SCOTT: It has from time to time. I mean, I think there are four or five weeks a year where you really feel like you know what you're doing with a golf swing, and the rest is down the scale of some idea, not much idea, no idea.
I'm somewhere in the middle at the moment. Of course it's not bad at all. I'm playing good. But when you want to hit a 9-iron at a tucked pin, you want to be sure you're going to start it on the right line; I'm just not quite there.
Maybe I just need a little bit more golf, a little bit more practice.
Q. Obviously a new event for you. How has maybe the new schedule impacted how you're putting your own personal schedule together?
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, I've had to think about it a little bit given that I always end up playing in Australia at the end of the year. It seems like this is really dragging on this year, even though I just had a month off.
But I feel in the big picture it's better that I keep going now, especially because I've been playing well, rather than take a break here, maybe throw one in in Asia, come back at the start of next year somewhere, even Torrey Pines like I did this year and be just -- even if I won an event in Asia I would be so far behind in points.
So I feel like kind of keep the momentum going, maybe don't have to chase as many points at the start of next year, allow myself a break well into February, and then be fresh for the most important part of the season, you know, from April through the summer. Hopefully.
That's kind of my rationale.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT