AT&T NATIONAL
July 3, 2011
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You really have to be encouraged with your play, particularly your putting this week.   
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, everything was in good shape and progressing from the way I wanted it, but one bad swing on 10 kind of made it very difficult for me to have a great run on the back nine. But I came back and made some birdies after it, and I'm happy with that, a couple great saves with the putter. I feel good about it, but if I was really on, I think I could have got myself in this tournament today. I was playing well enough.  
  
  Q. You had 26 putts in each of your weekend rounds.   
 ADAM SCOTT: That's a real positive. Obviously the greens are very nice here. If you hit good putts, they're going in. I feel like I hit a lot of good putts with that long putter. You know, I'm really happy with where things are at. The purpose of coming here was to get a result before the Open and build up a bit of confidence, and I think I've done that.  
  
  Q. You had Stevie Williams on your bag at the U.S. Open, again here this week. What's your future with Steve?   
 ADAM SCOTT: Well, kind of depending on Tiger. If he plays, then Steve will go back to work for him, and if he doesn't, I'm going to have to try and coax him over to the British Open. It would be good to have him on the bag again.   
  
  Q. You made a couple putts on the back nine but weren't able to really make a run.   
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, everything was good except the tee shot off the 10th. I put it in the worst spot, really. It was a terrible shot. That was disappointing because I was still a fair few back, but I could have made a run, I guess, with some really great golf. But 10 really put me on the back foot. So I was just pleased to kind of recover from that and play solid the rest of the back nine. I made the most of the week, and I played well this week, so to make the most of it was important.  
  
  Q. Talk about your confidence now going into the Open Championship.   
 ADAM SCOTT: It's definitely good for it. The purpose of coming here was to get a good result and just build up a little confidence. I felt I was playing well even back to the U.S. Open. Some weeks you just can't get a result, and it's important to have a good run before the Open and get a good indication of where everything is at so I can prepare nicely next week.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT