MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2011
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 RONALD TOWNSEND: Good afternoon. We welcome Adam Scott. Adam shot 5-under par 67 today for a total of 12-under with six birdies. We invite your question.

 Q. Do you take a lot of consolation in the fact that you did not lose this; that you shot a score well enough to win but Charl just happened to do what he did?
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, you know, I played well today and that's all I could ask for. Obviously I can't control Charl, and when you birdie the last four holes at the Masters and you're around the lead, that usually wins. 
 Nothing I can do about it. I hung in there as long as I could and kind of had a look at it on the last but not my best effort; but still, I've got to be pretty proud with the way I played over the weekend. 

 Q. I don't know how much you could tell what was going on, at 5 or six guys were tied at 10-under for the lead. What was it like to be in that atmosphere where so many guys were right up there chomping on it? 
 ADAM SCOTT: I mean, I was trying not to look at leaderboards too much. But it's easy to figure out with roars and groans and stuff what's going on out there.
 When I was on 13, I knew something had happened behind me that wasn't probably good. I knew I was right in the mix then. 
 So, you know, from there on I just tried to play solid, and I did everything pretty good. You can do things better here or there but under pressure, it's not easy, and I think I did well from every position I was in. So I'm pretty happy with that. 

 Q. Obviously 15, not a good swing, the second swing, but you do get away with par there. 16, when you hit it to a foot and you make that putt, you've got the lead. Is there a small part of you going, you know, this is mine?
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, a little bit. But you can think that, but then you've got to go and make it yours. And I didn't make a great swing on 17 and gave myself a look at birdie. I ended up making a great par somehow. I don't know how. But you know, I needed to have a look at it on 17 and a look at it on 18. And I guess that's what Charl did. 
 After he birdied 16, he said, this is mine, too, and he made it his. You know, it was a great day for me and to be right in the mix here is everything I've dreamed of. Just didn't quite pan out. 

 Q. Can you walk us through your scorecard and tell us about your six birdies today?
 ADAM SCOTT: I birdied the second. I just hit it off the back edge in two and 2-putted from the fringe. 
 7, I hit a driver and a sand wedge in pretty close, maybe three or four feet. 
 8, I got it up-and-down from 72 yards. Made like a 6-footer there maybe. 
 11, I hit an 8-iron in, geez, I don't know, 35 feet, 30 feet, something like that. 
 14, I hit a driver and a 9-iron in to eight feet I guess. 
 16, I hit a 7-iron in there to a couple feet. 

 Q. How was the pairing with Jason, and what do you imagine the mood is like back in Australia with the two of you playing so well?
 ADAM SCOTT: Well, it would have been good until 30 minutes ago. (Laughter).
 It was awesome playing with Jason. Incredible; he was a little shaky early on but really held his nerve and to finish birdie to give himself a chance at the time was huge. Can't say enough about Jason. He's a really mature golfer for his age. He's come a long way in a couple of years on the Tour. I was saying it in here yesterday; that he does everything very well and he works hard and you're passionate and that's all you need. So I'm sure this will just inspire him a little bit more. 

 Q. Geoff birdied five in a row on the back, and you're worrying about your own game, but do you think Australia is proud of you three guys today? 
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, absolutely they are. It would have made the Masters exciting for them this year to have three guys contending on the back nine Sunday. It's been a while since we've had that I guess. 
 And you know, I'm sure everybody would have been up watching; again, an incredibly exciting finish to the Masters. It's amazing what happens at this place.

 Q. What time is it there now?
 ADAM SCOTT: About nine or ten in the morning. 

 Q. Got no way of knowing what you're experiencing now, but you sound flat; if I had offered you 67 five hours ago you would have jumped at it. 
 ADAM SCOTT: I would have jumped at it, but that was only getting to where Rory started the day. I needed something good. I was five shots behind. 
 I'm not flat. I held the lead with a few holes to go for the win, and I'm usually a pretty good closer. I didn't do a bad job today but Charl did much better. Incredible finish. So like I said, I'm really proud of the way I played today, but disappointed to not get it done when I was right there at the end. 

 Q. In the past, obviously going back to Greg, the losses for Australians here have been negative losses, like bad things have happened to him. Today that wasn't the case. Does it take a little bit of the edge off that someone just outplayed you rather than you backing up? And secondly talk about your putting. You made two clutch par putts coming in, which must make you feel obviously pretty confident. 
 ADAM SCOTT: For me, personally, there's only positives to take out of this. I mean, it's a great week, far better than I've done here in the past. 
 So you know, very positive with where my game's at, everything's at and exciting to be in the mix at a major. Something that I haven't been able to talk to you guys about much at all. 
 There's only positives for me to take. I don't think there's anything negative about it. And as far as the putting goes, you know, it was just so solid all week. You know, I expect to make those putts. That's how I feel out there and it feels like I was putting at my best. 

 Q. Will you reach out to Rory after his collapse today, and if so, what would you say? 
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, obviously not great for him. You know, it's a very difficult position. I don't think there's a lead big enough around here. At 21 or 22, I don't know, he's young, it's a lot to handle. 
 I think he must have been fine. I don't know what happened because he was going along fine on the front nine. So I think when his emotions settle down and he can take a lot of positives about how far he got in this event -- not that he needs to prove that to himself because he's finished third in the last two majors before this; he's a hell of a player, and he just needs to let it get out of his system and reset everything and get on with it. 
 He's as good as it gets for a 21-year-old.

 Q. There were guys on this tour who people say, the guy is going to win a major some day. I'm not sure that Charl has always been one of those guys. What have you ever seen in him that makes you think, this is a guy that could go birdie, birdie, birdie, birdie to close the Masters?
 ADAM SCOTT: Well, he's won tournaments before. He knows how to win. He's a very quiet, unassuming guy, and I think not prominent in everyone's mind. But among the players and the European players, you must have seen it today, he hit some beautiful shots. He's got a hell of a golf swing. I played with him a few times last year, and certainly he's a guy when you're out playing with him and you see him strike the ball, you take notice, because it's pretty impressive. 
 But the list of players like that runs pretty deep. It's maybe deeper than ever. Everyone talked about how wide open it could be this year, and it kind of is. A lot of guys are out there hungry and playing very well. 

 Q. You said you didn't look at the leaderboard, but were you cognizant of Tiger early on?
 ADAM SCOTT: Oh, yeah. I mean, I looked at the leaderboard on front nine the whole time, and you know, I kind of figured out where Tiger's position was on the course and just heard roars, and the big one on 8, obviously I was on the 6th tee. And a hell of a run from him.
 You can just tell what's going on out there. It's quite unique.

 Q. Can you talk about 13 and 15, and when you look at those two holes, maybe a lot of opportunity? 
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, 13, not my best putt. Just a little weak. It was just not as fast as I had thought, and it was a weak putt. And certainly let one slip. 
 And then 15, I actually hit it all right and it just leaked off my lie a little bit. But I hit the kind of flight that I was looking for, but it leaked right, and it wasn't a good spot to be. The ground was very hard over there and the club bounced through quick. 
 In the end, it was a good par. So I left that green in quite a good frame of mind, even though I didn't make birdie. 
 But definitely standing in the fairway on 15 with a 5-iron, I would have loved to have knocked that on the green. But then, who is to know? Maybe I par the next and I'm in the same position going to the 17th position. 
 RONALD TOWNSEND: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT