MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2011
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How are you feeling? What's your thoughts?
 ADAM SCOTT: Oh, well I feel good. 70 is a good round any day here. But I don't know, I kind of felt like I played good, really good the back nine and, you know, a lot of good putts that didn't go in today. So I felt like it could have been easily a few better. But I'm happy with 70 anyway. I'm in good shape, I guess.

 Q. You look perplexed. 
 ADAM SCOTT: Well, I'm a bit amused by how that ball ends up off the back of the 18th green. I couldn't find a pitch mark. And I flew it over the 17th green and the 14th green. And from really good positions, you know you need to take advantage of the holes. 
 I put myself in a position where I struggled for par, but fortunately I made par on them all. But I hit so many good putts today that just missed, so maybe I'll get a big bag of them on the weekend.

 Q. Was that pretty much the worst score you could have had?
 ADAM SCOTT: I think so. Everything was pretty under control today. Early my rhythm was off, but on the back nine I really found my rhythm, which I was looking for. And I hit some great shots and hit a great shot into 1 and made the putt. And I think I'm in a really comfortable position. 
 I just misread it on 15 after hitting it in a perfect spot for birdie and other than that everything was really good. I had just, I just need to get the momentum going. I just made so many pars, which is not a bad thing, but you just need to birdie a couple of holes you don't expect to and really pick up some momentum and then you've got 13 and 15 to take advantage of. 

 Q. What did you hit into 13 and how far from the hole was it?
 ADAM SCOTT: I hit a 4-iron in from 205 yards to about 30 feet probably. Which was a pretty good shot considering it was in the front. I hit it pin high, it kicked left and it was a really good shot, good putt. 

 Q. What felt better that or the par at the first?
 ADAM SCOTT: The par at the first felt better. I didn't like where I was on the first again and I hit a really nice pitch and holed a good putt for par. It made my day, actually. 

 Q. The conditions, did the wind change at all on the back side or did it stay pretty steady?
 ADAM SCOTT: No, it has been tough with the wind. I mean it certainly picked up now, but it's just very hard to trust. You can feel gusts moving, the wind moves so much around through the trees and up the fairways and down fairways and it's very hard to trust the wind on such crucial shots over these holes with water and stuff, so it is a bit tricky. It's almost easier if it's blowing really hard.

 Q. What kind of secret language were you and Tim speaking on 15? You were on 16 tee and he was over at 15 green and it seemed like you were telling jokes from a hundred yards away. 
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah. No, I was twisting his arm because we're staying together this week, actually, and I wasn't sure if he was going to play today. So I was just joking around with him. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 ADAM SCOTT: Oh, no, I putted great again. I gave myself so many good looks at it and I hit so many good ones and some went in and I thought it would be good again, but there were so many that I looked and thought, geez, I hit a good putt and it was just shaving the edge of the hole. And that's what I've lacked, just that momentum. 
 It's like I birdie one and then make a bogey and then it's never three or four birdies in a row and moving up that way, but in good shape for the weekend. I'm sure a lot of things will change condition wise on the course over the weekend and it's going to become a lot more difficult.

 Q. Did you get a peak at the board yet?
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, I did. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT