ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 2, 2010
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Two rounds of 69, how do you feel about 4-under at halfway?   
 ADAM SCOTT: Not too bad actually. I wasn't at my best, not today, anyway, and it's a pretty tough course when you're not in the fairway. Tough to get at the pins and tough work 2-putting from long range.   
 Pretty happy with that overall and good back nine today, so hopefully I won't be too far back going into the weekend.  
  
  Q. You mentioned your putting, I know you've been working with a bit with Dave Stockton, but you decided to go left hand below right hand; how is that working out?   
 ADAM SCOTT: No, it's good. It's really rolling the ball well. Everything that Dave and I worked on, I just find it easier to do with that left hand lower. You know, the stroke feels really smooth.   
 But still getting comfortable with just, I don't know, the eyes are a bit different when that left hand goes slow and not always lining it up straight, but it's feeling much. much better.  
  
  Q. First time at this championship since 2003, is the course as you remember or has it changed?   
 ADAM SCOTT: I think it's matured a lot actually. I had heard the reports the last few years about the golf course from the guys, and yeah, very impressed with what I've seen so far. I think it's grown up a bit and the surfaces are much improved. I think it's a very good golf course.  
  
  Q. Obviously wins last year at the year in Australia and recently on the PGA Tour, back the in world's Top-50, how close do you feel to your best game?  
 ADAM SCOTT: It's getting there. Honestly I think it's just about putting and as soon as it really clicks consistently with the putting again, I think I'll be back right at the top of the game again.   
 My long game is in good shape, week-in, week-out. I just need to bring it down to just under 30 putts a day, it will be great and I think I'll be in good shape.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT