VALERO TEXAS OPEN
May 16, 2010
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DOUG MILNE: Okay. We'd like to welcome the 2010 Valero Texas Open Champion, Adam Scott. Adam, 66 today twice. Well done. 67, I'm sorry. You got the job done. Lot of golf, obviously. With the win you pick up 500 FedExCup Points and move inside the Top 30 in quite a while to No. 17. This is your 7th Tour win if I'm correct and 3rd straight in Texas. You've obviously got the Texas thing going. So congratulations. Maybe just some comments on the week.  
 ADAM SCOTT: Well, you know, obviously feels great to win any event anywhere but to win on the PGA Tour again is a big step. It was a good field here this week.   
 You know, I could feel the game was there, that's why I put this in the schedule. I never played San Antonio before. It was a good date for me for a little three week stretch and, you know, finally put it altogether.   
 It had been awhile since I had done that over here and made a lot of key putts coming down the stretch, hit some good shots, hit a few bad ones but it was great to be in position where the juices were flowing and seeing where my game is really at.  
 DOUG MILNE: For the past couple of years you've been kind of battling some frustrations with your game and so forth. How does a win like this, how big of a momentum shift is that?  
 ADAM SCOTT: Wins are huge for momentum. It's huge for your confidence, really, just the belief in yourself that you get out of it. Even if you're feeling good before, there's nothing quite like winning.  
 So, you know, I feel very happy about that because I knew my game was close but, you know, you need this boost maybe to bring you right back up to the top and play at the top level in the biggest events.  
 That's where I feel like I'm heading. It just needs a little sharpening up here and there and I feel like I'm still as good a player as I ever was. So, you know, I got to take the momentum and confidence and run with it from here.  
 DOUG MILNE: Okay. We'll take questions.  
  
  Q. This golf course is designed by Greg Norman, who obviously you have a great relationship with. Is there anything significance to that? Did you see anything here that --  
 ADAM SCOTT: Well, yeah. I guess, you know, when I played Tuesday I was amazed how much it looked like some of the courses back at home. A lot like the Mornington Peninsula. I even saw some of the Brisbane courses.   
 Felt like the landscape looks very similar to back home, kind of harsh, scrub land off the fairways and I had a feeling I knew Aussies would do well here this week.   
 Greg's greens are a lot like some of the sandbelt greens back at home, you know, that design and the bunkering. I felt comfortable on it and I think a lot of the other Aussies did, too, because there were a lot of Aussies up there through 36 holes this week and you know, when you feel comfortable like that, it certainly helps.   
 I still -- I hit so many drivers this week, way more than I normally would. I attacked the golf course and I think, you know, this course is -- if you're driving it well, this course is there to shoot a good number on. If you lay back, it's pretty hard. If you miss it with a driver you'll get penalized pretty hard. I was driving it well and went for it.  
  
  Q. Did I hear you say that Greg sent you a message afterwards?  
 ADAM SCOTT: He has, yes. I guess he was flying and I didn't have it yet but he said it looked good and well done, as he usually does, and he thinks the course turned out well, he said, and he appreciated my comments on the golf course.   
 I think he did a good job with it. I mean it's tough around the greens but I think the tournament did a good job with them, too, and didn't let them get too fast.  
  
  Q. What does your victory in the Australian Open give you confidence and does this victory give you more confidence?  
 ADAM SCOTT: The victory in the Australian Open was very big because it was really getting me out of a rut and made me feel like a good player again, a great player, and it also had some other meaning because it was my National Championship and I've been trying for awhile to win in Australia and got tired of being asked the question when that was going to happen so there are a lot of -- you know, it was a very, you know, proud moment for me to win the Open.   
 It meant a lot for a lot of different things but, yeah, this is an extension of that. I've played well this year, I've hit the ball great. My stats show that. The stats also show that I've really struggled on the greens.   
 I think, you know, to do as well as I have the way I've been putting was quite good. I tried not to let it bring down the rest of my game but certainly this week and especially today, the putting was really, really good, and on the back-9 on Sunday is when you really want to make putts and I made some good ones.  
  
  Q. Why do you perform so well in this state?  
 ADAM SCOTT: I don't know. I'm on a run with it right now. You know, I've enjoyed all the golf courses I've played here and I think when you enjoy the golf course and like playing, it goes a long way for your attitude out on the golf course and sometimes your attitude affects some balances and some putts. If you're in good spirits good things happen.  
  
  Q. Did you do anything specific to turn around your putting this week?  
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah. I had a 30 minute lesson off Dave Stockton back in Charlotte on Friday afternoon after I missed the cut, which I found fantastic, and the immediate effect it had was noticeable to me and it wasn't anything crazy at all. It actually got me back to kind of a natural position for me to be in, I feel, and it was actually a lot how I was putting when I won the Byron Nelson in 2008. I was working on a very similar kind of thing.  
 But he gave me some other little tips to just really feel my putts out better than I was and a little work with his son, Junior, last week in Sawgrass, I putted well in Sawgrass, in close to the hole, I just didn't make anything outside ten feet, really, and this week I got them rolling a little better from outside and I was still good in close.   
 It was solid and it certainly makes the game a little easier when you're making some putts and you can rely on them, the fact that you're going to make five and six-footers.  
  
  Q. Is there a method that the Stocktons are teaching?  
 ADAM SCOTT: I don't think it's really a method. You know, I think it's very natural for everyone. It's just more -- it's more kind of a philosophy of putting, just to free you up, to free your mind and not get so caught up in mechanics and really, you know, enjoy hitting every putt.  
  
  Q. As early as you did, the tee times and all that, sit and watch it, how tough was it?  
 ADAM SCOTT: I didn't mind. I would do it every week if I could sit in there and watch. It felt good to get off my feet. It was a long day. It was disappointing to miss a short putt on the last because I think it probably would have closed the gate maybe, would have made it a lot harder for those guys to get close. Fortunately, I had just enough up my sleeve.  
  
  Q. Did it anger or frustrate you not being part of the conversation when people were talking about the top players of the world and you not there?  
 ADAM SCOTT: Well, yeah, I guess a little bit. I feel still -- and, you know, I definitely questioned myself at times last year whether I was a great player or not and I still feel I am. It's hard to maintain that for 20 straight years, I got to believe, and I did a good job of it for a long time and I had -- got myself in a bit of a funk last year and, you know, fell off the radar, but that's how it is.   
 I mean everyone has fairly short memories in this game, somehow, and you've got to be out there all the time to be talked about and, you know, hopefully I can keep going with this form and they can talk about me as one of the great players in the game.   
 There are a lot. It's not easy. There are a lot of great players. You look at the Top 20 guys as well. Any of them could be Top 10. We're all fighting it out for our place out there and you can go even deeper and any of the guys up to 200 are good enough to play in the Top 15 in the world.   
 It's really cut throat. The talent level is deep and everyone's desire is strong. It's like the Dream Tour and everyone wants a piece of it. You got to be hungry.  
 DOUG MILNE: All right. Adam, if you wouldn't mind just running us through your final 18 and just giving us some clubs and yards on your birdies.  
 ADAM SCOTT: No. 2, I hit a driver and a 3-wood in the left bunker and hit a bunker shot to 8 feet.  
 No. 3, I hit a 7-iron to about 25 feet.  
 No. 5, I hit a 5-iron and a sand wedge to three feet.  
 No. 8, I hit a driver, lay up with a 6 iron, a lob wedge to ten feet.  
 No. 10, I hit a driver and pitching wedge to 15 feet.  
 No. 12, I hit 3-wood and a lob wedge to five feet.  
 And bogey on the last. I hit a driver -- no, I didn't, I hit a 3-wood and a 7-iron and a 9-iron over the back in the bunker. Bunker shot, four and a half, five feet.  
 DOUG MILNE: Adam, congratulations.  
 ADAM SCOTT: Thanks.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT