MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2010
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
 ADAM SCOTT: It was going to be a really tough, tough day out there, but once you got down to the bottom of the golf course, you could play a little bit more under the trees, and the wind was not quite blowing as hard up here. But you did, you had to be patient and wait out the gusts and just go with where you've had it coming from all day.  
  
  Q. Did the shot on 6 make a difference for you? Did that kind of turn the corner for you?  
 ADAM SCOTT: Not really, because I missed that putt. I hit it fine early on, I just wasn't making any putts, and I three-putted early on, so that was a bad start. But that's about even par for me, 2-over through 6 here.  
  
  Q. I saw a few of your shots on the way in, and it looked like you were hitting it really well.   
 ADAM SCOTT: I hit the ball great, probably as good as you can drive a golf ball around this course I did today. I only missed the second fairway. I drove it through in the bunker, and every other hole I hit the fairway. I hit a lot of good iron shots. I didn't make a lot of putts. I hit a lot of good putts. That's where you have to be so patient. As long as you're hitting a good putt, it's just tough to two-putt sometimes.  
  
  Q. Any distractions playing right behind Tiger? I guess playing in front of him would be harder.   
 ADAM SCOTT: I think front would have been harder, but pretty much while we were waiting on the 12th tee and he putted out on 12 green everyone decided to pack up and leave. It was a mass exodus.  
  
  Q. Were you on the tee?  
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, we were teeing off, and like everyone was folding their chairs up.   
  
  Q. If you play another three days like you did today, do you think you're going to be right up there?  
 ADAM SCOTT: I think so. I honestly think they're planning on probably letting the course play a little harder each day, a little firmer, and I think that's a good way to go.   
 It got the tournament off to a great start. They've got a hell of a leaderboard. It's got to be exciting. You know, I'm going to have to keep -- if I keep playing the way I am, you know, it would be hard for me not to stay in the hunt playing this well.   
 But I know there are going to be some times I hit some bad shots and I'm going to have to scramble. As always, you've got to have everything pretty good at a major.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT