THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 8, 2009
Ernie Els
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How would you describe this victory?   
 ADAM SCOTT: Any victory is important but personally for me obviously it feels great, but more importantly we need it for the team because things were looking good early on, but some matches were turning around and we really needed this around.   
  
  Q. What did you do for his confidence?   
 ERNIE ELS: Well, I missed a lot of birdie putts. He hit it so good today. I had so many birdie looks, but I couldn't quite make the putts. If I make putts it could have been over long ago, probably should have been over three or four holes ago but we had to make some par-saving putts. I had a great partner and obviously a great pick.   
  
  Q. Congratulations on winning the first point officially for the International Team.   
 ADAM SCOTT: Things turned around on the back nine in favor of the American Team it seemed. Yeah, we need some points and it was good to get one. Personally it feels good and we played pretty solid and Ernie and I always do well together.   
  
  Q. You made your first birdie on the 16th hole today.   
 ADAM SCOTT: It was a bit of a match like that. It's tough. The greens are firm and you don't want to leave yourself too much hard work. You want to try to not put your partner in too much trouble, as well.   
 We were plodding along, and Ernie made a good couple par saves and I hit some good shots coming in the last.   
  
  Q. 16 and 17, obviously fantastic finish.   
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, the way the match was going, it was who was going to make the first mistake -- and it was good to stick one in there on 16, 2-up with two to go, to get at least a halve, is a good feeling.   
 Ernie said to just go for it, hit a good drive. Yeah, we hit good shots at the right time, that's important. A couple average ones, but it was pretty solid. I gave Ernie a lot of chances at birdie.  
  
  Q. How much did last weekend help give you good vibes coming in here?   
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, it was good. It was a solid week. But not the same feeling as walking on the first tee this morning. Honestly, I haven't felt like that for a while. Juices were really flowing and I had one of those feelings that, I mean, I used to have a lot of the time, and to get it this morning was fun. To smoke a drive down there felt even better.   
 Yeah, I really enjoyed it. But it was hard work.   
  
  Q. When is the last time you felt like that?   
 ADAM SCOTT: Probably last year sometimes when I was right in the heat of it, or maybe Hawaii this year when I had a chance to win.   
  
  Q. What is the difficulty of having to address a shot you didn't hit?   
 ADAM SCOTT: Well, it's a little different. It's just harder to get your rhythm really, I find. I didn't hit a putt for about eight holes today and then, all of a sudden, you hit a putt that counts; it's hard to get your rhythm. Ernie might have felt like he didn't hit any iron shots.   
 It's just hard to establish a rhythm.   
  
  Q. You mentioned the greens were firm, how did the course set up for match play? Looked like guys were making birdies left and right.   
 ADAM SCOTT: It's a combination of maybe first-day jitters and the fact that the greens are tricky. Get it in the wrong spot, you leave yourself a lot of work; and with them being pretty firm and fast, chipping, anything downhill, short-side is a no-no.   
 For me, I played fairly safe into the greens and tried not to be scrambling too much.   
  
  Q. The opening drive, did you really feel comfortable after?   
 ADAM SCOTT: Not completely. You get pumped up, it takes a while for you to calm down. My first chip was pretty average, so it was a little nervy one. You know, after a couple of holes, I got into the flow of it. Yeah, I thought we were fairly solid.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT