THE BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 9, 2009
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. The best score of the afternoon starters what, most pleased you about your play today?
 ADAM SCOTT: Everything was good today. Certainly my ball-striking, obviously, is the big improvement for me the last couple outings. Been playing not so well as you might know.
 Yeah, the ball-striking is definitely looking good. I'm hitting a lot of good shots. Today's round, my striking today made it fairly easy for me.

 Q. When we chatted at the U.S. Open, you felt you were improving. What's turned it around?
 ADAM SCOTT: Just finally getting the club up and down the line and that's letting me hit through the ball with some aggression. I'm coming from a good spot, which I've been struggling with, so I able to hit through it and see my shots, feels under control. Feels good.

 Q. By the time you teed off, there was a 64 posted and three 65s; is that intimidating or inspiring? 
 ADAM SCOTT: I think inspiring. Around here. I've played here a lot and I know you can have a good score. We see good scores every year at some point. It was certainly on today. It was perfect conditions. You can't get better, so it was important to have a good one this afternoon and have good weather tomorrow morning and keep moving in the right direction.

 Q. You started your career in Europe, is it nice to come back and see some of the guys that don't travel globally?
 ADAM SCOTT: Absolutely. It's been a big part of my career, Europe, and obviously I play a lot more in the States now. But to play with Darren today was great for me because he was the guy who certainly looked after me a lot when I was just a young kid out here. We reminisced a little bit out there today. It was a lot of fun. It was good. Both of us played well.

 Q. Looking forward to going out and attacking tomorrow morning? 
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, that will be good. The greens are really good this year here, and obviously the greens are always better in the morning when less people have mowed over them. 

 Q. A fine round today, what's made the difference over the last few weeks, because it's been a difficult year for you so far. 
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, my ball-striking was not good through most of this year and it's taken me a long time to get it back on track, and you know, it was feeling good at the U.S. Open and since then I've had a couple weeks of practise. Certainly getting the club more up and down the line now.

 Q. What was good for you out there today?
 ADAM SCOTT: Everything was pretty solid. I gave myself a lot of chances. I didn't make them all but I made a couple, and it was good, solid golf. Some golf that I remember myself playing once. 
 It's been a frustrating stretch but certainly encouraging to see a round like that, no bogeys.

 Q. Frustrating stretch; what do you put it down to? 
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, I think there's a long and a short story, but to keep it brief, my posture got out of shape and my swing got out of sorts because of that. So I had to kind of start again with the fundamentals and work my way back. I'm very happy with how I played today. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT