THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 17, 2008
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Reflections on the round today. Obviously you were in some tough conditions and it got a little bit better in the afternoon. Did you feel comfortable with your game out there?
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, I felt good. I think the tough conditions were good for me today, although this afternoon was a little easier than this morning. But I mean, just being tough anyway, because my game, I felt, ball-striking-wise wasn't 100 per cent and swing-wise wasn't 100 per cent. It's more figure out a way to get it around, and that's what I did. My swing came around and I hit a lot of shots that I was pleased with.
 It was one of those days where you have to grind, and sometimes they're better than the days where you have to go out and hit it pure and knock it close and make a lot of birdies. 

 Q. Did you feel that way right from maybe the practise range right to the first hole? When did you feel like, gosh, it might be a little bit tougher, you've got to hang in there and grind it out a little bit?
 ADAM SCOTT: When I woke up. I mean, it's a tough course on a perfect day, let alone a day like today. 

 Q. Your hand obviously got to be a lot better than it was prior to the U.S. Open. Can you talk a little bit about its status and whether that affected you in your preparation for this week?
 ADAM SCOTT: No, it hadn't at all. I took two weeks completely off golf after the U.S. Open and then figured I'd leave it long enough to heal it completely. It's completely healed and fine now.

 Q. Growing up in Australia, did you ever face conditions like this? Did you grow up learning how to hit these shots?
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, a little bit. I mean, winters in Melbourne are pretty awful and similar to days like today. You know, everyone lives on the coast in Australia pretty much, and when you're at the coast it blows. I grew up in the wind, absolutely. 

 Q. How do you feel about your position, because obviously I know there's a couple holes coming in that I'm sure you didn't want to bogey there, but overall still obviously a good round today. How do you feel about where you stand? 
 ADAM SCOTT: No, it's a great position to be in. For me it always seems like I'm so far behind after Thursday that it's a lot of work for me to do Friday, then the weekend. If I can keep pace with the leaders the next couple days, I'll enjoy being in contention. But it always seems like in a major I'm coming in from so far behind that it's got to be almost the round of your life to get it done.
 This is a great start for me. It keeps me right where I need to be, and tomorrow is important to do the same. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT