WACHOVIA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 3, 2008
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. The back nine was pretty good, huh, you got it rolling there?
 ADAM SCOTT: I got on a little bit of a run out there, hit a lot of good shots and made a couple putts. 

 Q. 15 you hit it three feet? Is that what I heard?
 ADAM SCOTT: Right.

 Q. How far did you have there?
 ADAM SCOTT: I had 192 to the hole.

 Q. What did you hit in there?
 ADAM SCOTT: 6-iron.

 Q. Was it a slight break today to be out early since it looks like you might have Armageddon on the horizon? 
 ADAM SCOTT: Really? 

 Q. I don't know, it depends on who you want to believe. It's spotty looking. 
 ADAM SCOTT: It was beautiful this morning. I mean, if the wind blows this afternoon it'll be tough. There's some tough pins out there today, so very tough if it blows this afternoon if the greens firm out.

 Q. Obviously you come in here knowing you need to post something to get back into it. You were right there on the edge yesterday; I guess the back nine you struggled a little bit?
 ADAM SCOTT: I ran out of gas a little bit yesterday, I think. The week has kind of dragged out for me a little bit since Sunday night. You know, I was just running on low yesterday.
 It was a quick but a good night's sleep last night. Felt good. 

 Q. Do you like what you see out here?
 ADAM SCOTT: I do, yeah. I was disappointed in myself yesterday for almost missing the cut and also kind of playing myself out of the tournament at the time. I butchered it yesterday.

 Q. Are you surprised at the drain? Did it just sort of gradually catch up with you? You've been through it before, I guess. 
 ADAM SCOTT: Well, to put everything into perspective, the last month or five weeks, since getting sick in Houston, playing a major, flying back to Australia for a week, coming back, winning, not sleeping on Sunday night (laughter), and then coming here.

 Q. Did you ever figure out what the sickness was? Was it something you ate?
 ADAM SCOTT: No, I had a throat virus, throat infection.

 Q. You were super-low and then super-high and then you were done?
 ADAM SCOTT: They got me a steroid shot to open my throat back up. It was closed over.

 Q. You had that done here in the States?
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, on Saturday morning of Houston.

 Q. I knew they used steroids for many things; I didn't know they used them for that type of application. Was it just hard to swallow, hard to breathe, the whole nine yards?
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, it's kind of nasty, but my throat was just all blisters back there.

 Q. That is kind of nasty. 
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah. I don't know where I got that.

 Q. How long did it take to shake it? 
 ADAM SCOTT: I was feeling okay by Thursday of Augusta. I was feeling decent. You know, I was a little flat, but I felt okay.

 Q. You were able to eat your normal --
 ADAM SCOTT: No, I didn't eat for a couple days.

 Q. But nothing scratchy. 
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, the throat was pretty tender. I didn't eat for a couple days, but I was fine early in the week of Augusta, got back into it. It just shook me around a little bit. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 ADAM SCOTT: You've got to make it happen from 7 to 11. That's your big opportunity. You can get on a roll there. You've also got 14 and 15 coming up, which is a chance before the final three, which are obviously brutal. If the wind blows any harder this afternoon, those last three holes are going to play so difficult.

 Q. Do you have any gas left in the tank? You've been through a lot the last three or four weeks. Do you have anything left? 
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, I think I'm just picking up again. It's been a bit of a slow week for me this week, had a good night's sleep finally last night, and looking for a couple more before next week for sure.

 Q. At the end of the day are you watching golf or are you watching the horse race?
 ADAM SCOTT: I'm probably going to watch neither of those two (laughter). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT