EDS BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
April 24, 2008
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   STEWART MOORE: We'd like to welcome Adam Scott to the interview room here at the EDS Byron Nelson Championship after a good round of 68 out there in some pretty windy conditions. Just looking at your card, 2-over par through six holes, but this is one of these days where you get a couple over par but you're still only a few birdies away from jumping back into the mix. Talk about getting a little bit of a slow start and rallying with four birdies in your last 12.   
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah. I got off on the wrong foot there with bogey 5, double 6, and it was important to come back quickly from that and not let it get away from me, because it can on a day like today out there. But I knew I was playing well, striking the ball well, so it was nice to get it back quick.   
 And then on the back nine, unfortunately with the wind blowing it's hard to get really good opportunities out there, and I got a couple and took them. I'm pretty happy with that round.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about your late decision to come here and what clinched the deal?   
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, I was playing well at Augusta, and I flew home to Australia. I got home and played a couple times and played well, and I thought, you know, I should be back out on TOUR playing rather than wasting it at Century Cove, so I decided to come back.  
  
  Q. When was that?  
 ADAM SCOTT: Friday. You know, just entered right before the cutoff.   
  
  Q. You've played well here in the past. Can you tell me what the difference is in the course? Is it better for you or worse?   
 ADAM SCOTT: I really think it plays -- the way it plays is very similar, other than the greens. They're completely different. They've done a nice job out there. It looks better off the tee. They've done nice bunkering. The holes are running -- the same holes, they've just been changed a little. So it plays very similar.   
 And the greens I think are going to be really challenging, especially when they kind of mature and they can cut the grass down a little more. When it's settled in and gets fast, it'll be tricky out there.  
  
  Q. Did you feel like the wind -- a lot of the guys in the morning said the conditions were really brutal. Did you feel like maybe the winds died down a little bit this afternoon, or what did it feel like to you?  
 ADAM SCOTT: Maybe the last few holes it wasn't quite as strong. Yeah, it might have dropped off a little bit this afternoon.  
  
  Q. A lot of guys have used the words "battle," things like that out there today. When you're hitting it as well as you were hitting it, does it feel like a battle, or are these just the guys that aren't hitting it well?   
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, if you hit it okay, it's not too bad because you're hitting a fair amount of greens. It can be a battle if you're getting in awkward positions around the greens and all you feel like you're doing is scrambling. I think it's a battle anyway, even if you're hitting it well, because you've got to test your patience then. I spent a lot of the day two-putting. You've just got to wait for your opportunity to come along.   
  
  Q. When you come into a tournament and you see that you're the only Top 10 player playing this week, is that in your own mind -- do you think, if I play well, my chances are better, or do you think about that at all?  
 ADAM SCOTT: Not really. I mean, I think Trevor might be pretty confident at the moment (laughter). No, I mean, I'm sure there's a bunch of guys in the Top 30, and you can look on the points and the World Ranking, the difference between 30th and 10th, I don't think it's really that much. It's two good weeks. I don't think it gives me an advantage.   
  
  Q. You talked about playing back at home and said you were playing well so you decided to come back. Are you playing next week and the week after, as well?  
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Did that make the decision more difficult or easy because it's going to be obviously three in a row?  
 ADAM SCOTT: After thinking about it a little bit, I really liked it. I quite like playing three events in a row. I feel like I get in a really good rhythm, and going into Wachovia, it's a pretty demanding golf course. It's nice to be a bit sharp, so this is a good week to get my touch back and focus, and two good tournaments before THE PLAYERS.   
 I should be pretty sharp hopefully with a bit of good golf, and I'm looking for a nice run to kind of jump-start my year over here in the States. I've got off to a bit of a slow start. I've played well, but I haven't really put four good days together yet. I'm looking for three good weeks to get right up in the points.   
  
  Q. When did you actually feel better after the strep throat in Houston?  
 ADAM SCOTT: I was feeling pretty good by Thursday at Augusta. Tuesday and Wednesday were a little slow, but I was fine by Thursday.   
  
  Q. Augusta postmortem, what conclusions did you come to?  
 ADAM SCOTT: Well, I got off to a poor start on Thursday, but it is what it is, I guess. Going into the back nine Sunday, I was looking like I was in pretty good shape, and I was thinking if I had a great back nine, you never know, get it to 5-under. That was 4-under, the back nine for me.   
 I just felt like I had to grind a little harder. I just let -- I missed four short putts on the back nine from about five feet, and that's kind of costly at a major, back nine on Sunday, no matter where you are in the field, and I slipped away. I just had to work a little harder at it at that point. Everything else I thought was pretty good. My ball-striking came good Friday, so I was happy with that.   
  
  Q. When did you call the tournament officials and actually tell them you were going to be playing?  
 ADAM SCOTT: I entered on Friday.  
  
  Q. So was it close to the deadline?  
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, I just entered before the deadline Friday.  
  
  Q. And Friday is when you made the decision to play?  
 ADAM SCOTT: Well, Friday in Australia. I guess that's Thursday here (laughter).   
  
  Q. On 11 you went for it and you almost got it, didn't you, going for the green? How was that shot and how was the wind playing, and do you like that hole?  
 ADAM SCOTT: I think it's a good short hole. I think a lot of the time some of the short drivable holes are the best holes on the golf course. I think that's one of the good ones out here. They've done a nice job with the green. It's pretty severe, but that's how a hole like that should be. If you play it to lay up, you've got a wedge, and you should be pretty accurate with a wedge. If you drive it up there, you might have a tough chip. I think they've done a nice job with that hole.   
  
  Q. Is that similar to Riviera's 10th just in terms of the risk-reward?  
 ADAM SCOTT: It's similar, yeah. It's a similar kind of theory, I guess, yeah.  
  
  Q. Is that kind of your mindset, to try to drive it all four days?  
 ADAM SCOTT: No, there's a couple pin positions where there's no reward in getting it near the green, when the pin is just under a swale.   
 STEWART MOORE: Adam, thanks so much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT