SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 3, 2008
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DAVE SENKO: Well, Adam, thanks for joining us. We'll try to make this as quick as possible. Sixty-three, which is a new course record, breaking last year's record, 64 by Bubba Watson and Johnson Wagner.
 Maybe just get us started, talk about your day. I think you got off -- was it about a 55-footer at No. 10; is that right? Long putt?
 ADAM SCOTT: Right. Yeah, it was nice way to start. So, you know, we had the good conditions early this morning. There was no wind for the first eight holes and certainly took advantage of them. Hit some good shots, made a few nice putts, especially the one on 10 to start the day. The wind picked up on our back nine, and I managed to hit plenty of good shots, giving myself some opportunities and hit the par-5s in two coming in, setting up 2-putt birdies.
 So, it was all pretty solid out there, you know, obviously with it being quite windy. It's a good way to start.
 DAVE SENKO: Questions?

 Q. Would you kind of fill us in on your medical situation when you started to feel lousy and all that?
 ADAM SCOTT: I've been feeling lousy all this week. I'm going to go get some antibiotics. Hopefully they'll kick in quick.

 Q. What are you suffering from, sinus infection or something?
 ADAM SCOTT: Like swollen glands.

 Q. How do you feel you played so well considering how you feel?
 ADAM SCOTT: I don't really know. I mean, I'd like to stay like this for about another two weeks, be good. (Laughter). Maybe I shouldn't get the antibiotics.

 Q. Seventeen out of 18 greens. Did the round just feel as smooth as it would seem to be on -- that's not the type of numbers you have on a windy day.
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah. I just feel really comfortable on this golf course. A lot of the shots really fit my eye. I feel like I know where to hit it. And few pins that were in tough positions, I picked a target and managed to stick to it. Hit nice shots in and, yeah, I had a lot of opportunities and made a lot of them, too. So, I don't know. I feel really good on this golf course.

 Q. With your illness, do you feel like you kind of mentally were sharper because you felt you were weren't feeling a hundred percent so you kind of mentally focused more?
 ADAM SCOTT: No. I think, you know, I was just about conserving energy and thought about hitting the fairway and hitting the green and not having to work too hard. Fortunately, that's kind of how today went. I need to keep going that way. It would be nice for the week.

 Q. Sixty-three swings is a lot less than 72, huh?
 ADAM SCOTT: Exactly, conserve energy.

 Q. Any thought in maybe not playing? Did you feel that bad going in, or given this is a course you play well, you wanted to play?
 ADAM SCOTT: I could have -- I just don't like withdrawing from tournaments. I've only done it once I believe in my career, and I was pretty bad that day. I wanted to at least get out there and see how I was going. And, you know, I felt the same yesterday and got it around okay. So --
Q. Do you have like strep throat, do you think?
 ADAM SCOTT: Something like that. The doctor mentioned that, maybe.

 Q. Are you running a temperature and all that stuff?
 ADAM SCOTT: Little bit.

 Q. How high were you running?
 ADAM SCOTT: He didn't actually take my temperature. Yeah, he's going to put me on something and see how I go with that. Should be alright.

 Q. As well as you played it, do you have a favorite shot today, favorite sequence of what you think best kind of summed up what you did?
 ADAM SCOTT: Tough to say. I mean, the putt on 10, you know, 55 feet. So, at that point, previous two putts in this tournament were 48 and 55 feet, you know. I made a 48-footer last year. Started out with a 55-footer this year. Something is going right for me here (laughter).

 Q. What iron did you hit into 10?
 ADAM SCOTT: A pitching wedge.

 Q. That would give you 54-hole bogey-less streak here, too, doesn't it?
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, it does. Yeah. Like I said, you know, really I feel like I can get around this golf course well. And, you know, I didn't start the day out feeling like I was playing great. But certainly as the round went on and the more birdies I made, the confidence came and the swings became better. And by the end of it, I was playing great.

 Q. How much does it help when you're playing with Geoff, not feeling well, know that you can be that relaxed around him?
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah. I don't get too uptight playing with too many guys out here, but obviously Geoff and I play a lot together and we share a lot of the same interests -- so talked a lot about Aussie rules, "footies," put out tips today for the pool. So getting his thoughts on who was going to win this week. 

 Q. You always had, your group were the last two Tour winners. Talk about maybe just that kind of a grouping playing together today?
 ADAM SCOTT: It was a great group. Geoff in good form after winning in Doral and Andres Romero breaking through over here last week, two guys in good form. Andres struggled a little today, but, you know, it was a really good grouping. And for a 7:50 tee time, I would say there's a pretty significant gallery out there. It was nice to see everyone getting out early and supporting for sure.

 Q. You had six 1-putts on the backside today. You putted better recently. Do you feel like your putter is start to go catch up to your ball striking and confidence in your putter?
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah. I think more confidence-wise. It's a little more consistent. Just from practicing a little bit more this week, this year, working at it. I putted really well at Doral. That was a good sign. I've putted well most of this year, but you don't make them everyday even though you're hitting good putts. 
 I'm hitting more good putts, and sometimes they go in, sometimes they don't. But it's nice to know that you're hitting more good putts, more of a chance to go in.

 Q. Could the other guys in your group tell you were feeling under the weather? Did they say anything to you? Or were you able to keep it --
ADAM SCOTT: I think Geoff knew because I had dinner with him the other night. He knew I was sick, but I don't know. The little language barrier with Andres Romero. Good shot, basically (laughter). 

 Q. Did Geoff say anything to you after your 63? Like, "Man, I can't believe you played this well as bad as were you feeling"?
 ADAM SCOTT: No. No. I think he'd be giving me compliments too easy.

 Q. Did you have trouble making that tee time this morning? Were you feeling it like this morning before you teed off?
 ADAM SCOTT: I didn't really feel like getting out of bed, to be honest. Pretty lousy. But certainly once I got going a little bit, started, you know, the body loosened up a little bit and felt better. So kind of dragged myself around. But, yes, you know what it's like when you wake up and you're not feeling great, you don't really want to move.

 Q. You weren't out with Daly last night, were you?
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, you caught me. (Laughter). Might have felt better if I was.

 Q. Wouldn't have remembered it. That's for sure.
 DAVE SENKO: Couple more questions.

 Q. Let's cut him a break. No questions. Go get your antibiotics.
 ADAM SCOTT: Thanks a lot. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT