WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 22, 2008
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   LAURA NEAL:  Adam, thanks a lot for coming in, kind of a long day.  Maybe just take us through the play that you did get through and tell us how you're feeling about things right now. 
 ADAM SCOTT:  I feel pretty good so far for round 3.  I got off to a great start today and got myself right in the tournament.  Things kind of slowed down after the 5th hole.  But hanging in there, hit a couple bad drives.  But, you know, the day is over, obviously, and I need to get out there tomorrow and kind of start out like I did today. 

 Q.  Talk about your drive on 8 and what kind of line you took there and how you got out of that hole. 
 ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, a quick hook, left, hard left, and just a long swing, got a little bit long.  Rather than hitting it way right, I decided to go left with it.  But you might thank Tiger's gallery for that, for stopping that one from going further left.  The advantages of playing with Tiger. 

 Q.  Do you feel like playing in a threesome with Geoff helped both of you relax, rather than just playing in a pair with Tiger, or did it make no difference? 
 ADAM SCOTT:  Maybe.  I don't know.  I mean, I guess I've played so much with Geoff, I'm obviously extremely comfortable playing with him.  I've played a little bit with Tiger, and I never really watch him play his round anyway.  It's one way to kind of block out what he's doing and just kind of concentrate on myself.  So I did that anyway. 
 But yeah, it's a nice pairing.  I mean, I want to play with Tiger.  It means I'm probably playing pretty good.  When you're playing good, you've just got to believe in yourself that you can keep doing it. 

 Q.  Do you like playing more than 18?  Obviously you're going to have to play some makeup tomorrow.  Do you consider that a long day or do you like getting in that rhythm? 
 ADAM SCOTT:  I think I'll be able to handle 26 tomorrow.  It's going to be a long day, but you've got to be pretty amped up for World Golf Championships in the final group playing with Tiger and in contention.  Should be okay, 26 holes. 

 Q.  How do you feel about playing in the slop?  Do you consider yourself a pretty good mudder, so to speak? 
 ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, it's been a while since we've -- well, since I've played in some soft conditions, that's for sure.  But it seemed like we played in it a lot here a couple years ago.  But yeah, it's going to be a totally different golf course.  Soft, I mean, it was in such perfect condition; it's disappointing that it's going to rain so much and make it more target golf, I guess. 

 Q.  The unofficial win at LA, was that one of the sloppiest tournaments you've ever played in? 
 ADAM SCOTT:  It was sloppy.  Only getting 36 holes in over four days, that's about as wet as it gets. 

 Q.  Did you feel it was important to get off to a good start today after you finished yesterday? 
 ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, it was a disappointing finish, but it could have been worse yesterday.  It was a good bogey on the 18th in the end.  I thought if I could get off to a fast start, I could kind of wipe that bad finish out and get right back in the hunt because there was every chance those guys might have got off to a fast start, but they didn't and I did, so fortunately that kind of put me back in it. 

 Q.  I know you say you don't pay too much attention to Tiger or maybe even Geoff, but did you notice three lip-outs in the first five holes and say to yourself, maybe this is our day? 
 ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, he got a bit unlucky with a couple putts that lipped out, but if it was our day, it was cut off way too short because we only got 12 holes in (laughter). 

 Q.  Is that disappointing, knowing that when you look back you were going the right direction, so was Geoff, and Tiger was kind of stalled for the day?  Do you not relish the fact that he's going to have some time to work on whatever it is and play 26 tomorrow versus having to complete the 18 today when he wasn't playing that well? 
 ADAM SCOTT:  A little bit.  I mean, I think we all -- well, for me I would have liked to get the round in.  You know, my round had gone a little stale after a fast start, and I was looking forward to getting to the 12th, par-5, and giving myself a chance at birdie to get moving in the right direction.  Geoff just got a little momentum going toward the end of the front nine, and yeah, Tiger was -- he was struggling a lit bit to get it going. 
 It would have been nice to keep playing more holes, but my attitude is the day is over.  We'll start tomorrow just like we did today, and hopefully I get off to a fast start and set the tone early. 

 Q.  Where exactly did you start? 
 ADAM SCOTT:  We were on the 12th tee. 

 Q.  What did you hit in at 1? 
 ADAM SCOTT:  7-iron. 

 Q.  About, what, 180? 
 ADAM SCOTT:  194. 

 Q.  On 8, what did you have, what type of yardage and club, to get back into play? 
 ADAM SCOTT:  I was trying to hit a 190 shot, and I hit a 7-iron. 

 Q.  Talk about how much conditioning will play a role tomorrow, and what do you think you have to do to win tomorrow? 
 ADAM SCOTT:  Conditioning? 

 Q.  Yeah, playing more holes. 
 ADAM SCOTT:  I don't think it's going to affect any one of us.  I think we're all in pretty good shape that we can handle 24 holes.  I've seen both Geoff and Tiger in the gym, so we should all be all right (laughter). 

 Q.  How different do you think the course will play yardage-wise when you're talking about the ball has been running and so forth and so on?  How different do you think it will play now? 
 ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, I think that's going to be the biggest adjustment to make tomorrow, is just the fact that it's probably going to stop right where it lands in the fairway, and getting a handle on how much spin you get on the greens.  You know, they've been receiving the balls really nicely, and they're going to really start spinning with the wedges.  That's what's going to be the hardest thing to figure out when you first get out there tomorrow. 

 Q.  Tiger's so-so days have been pretty few and far between of late.  Was there a part of you when the horn sounded that was thinking, of all days to suspend play? 
 ADAM SCOTT:  Not really.  Like I said, if it was our day, I wished it hadn't stopped.  But yeah, he was struggling a little bit, but is he struggling at even par or something for the day?  That's not too bad. 

 Q.  I read in some clipping, I think it was a British paper today, it referred to you as an underachieving Australian.  You're 27 years old.  It seems like a pretty premature assessment, but does any of that motivate you at all, that maybe that perception can be out there? 
 ADAM SCOTT:  I don't know.  I mean, I think I probably wouldn't pay too much attention to that kind of article.  I certainly don't think I've overachieved, but I haven't done too badly.  I think expectations obviously have been set high since Tiger succeeded so young and there's a lot more expected out of young players who make it out here.  It's simply not as easy as Tiger made it look. 
 We're all trying our guts out, and it's hard to get wins out here.  Sure, I think I could have done better, but I'm hoping the best years of my career are ahead of me. 

 Q.  Having said that, do you look at tomorrow as a very important day in your golfing career, or just another final round when you're in contention? 
 ADAM SCOTT:  Right now I feel like it's another final round where I'm in contention.  But look, it's a World Golf Championship, it's one of the biggest events we play in.  It's kind of a proving ground, and I've got a lot to prove I feel like. 
 It has to be taken very seriously.  Just all the right preparation, and hopefully everything I've been putting into my game shows up tomorrow. 
 LAURA NEAL:  Adam, thanks for your time.  Appreciate it. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT