WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 21, 2008
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ADAM SCOTT:  I'm playing really solid, but disappointing finish with two bogeys today.  You know, I'll get focused for tomorrow and try and make up a few shots on the leaders.   
  
  Q.  Talk about your last two drives.   
 ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, I had the wind blowing off the left for both of them into the wind, and I aimed down the left side and tried to just ride it up the wind but pulled them a little, both of them, and both got in pretty awkward positions.  So I think I was lucky to stay with a couple bogeys.  Could have been worse.   
  
  Q.  How did this wind -- the wind was more favorable yesterday?   
 ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, this was the tougher wind today, for sure.  Luckily it wasn't blowing too hard.  You know, still, the course is giving up some pretty good scores.  There's still good rounds out there.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)   
 ADAM SCOTT:  Should be good.  Obviously he's playing really well.  I saw that on Wednesday.  We played nine holes.  Looked like he's really swinging the club nicely.  You know, we've just got to keep focused on our own games out there tomorrow.  I'm going to be trying to chase him down.   
  
  Q.  Do you practice with Geoff often?   
 ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  Do you have a schedule or when it just works out?   
 ADAM SCOTT:  We play a really similar schedule, I think.  We're friends so we enjoy playing golf with each other.  Usually we play a practice round when we're playing in the same tournament.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)   
 ADAM SCOTT:  Depends how we're playing.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about your round before that, the first 15 holes?   
 ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, it was really steady.  You know, maybe they were a bit tired swings.  I really didn't put too many bad swings on it out there today, and at the end of the day, been grinding all day, just a couple lazy ones.  I'm going to have to tighten that up for the next couple days.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)   
 ADAM SCOTT:  I feel really good with my swing, but probably most importantly, these two days putting, I can't think I've hit a bad putt out there.  I've made some share, but also the ones I didn't make were really good putts, and that's what I'm feeling most happy about.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)   
 ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, that's great news, I think, for the international team.  He'll bring a real boost to the team, an honor for any Australian, so (inaudible).   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)   
 ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, absolutely.  I don't get the opportunity enough, to be honest with you.  I wish I played better so I could.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)   
 ADAM SCOTT:  The shot into 10, my 3-iron into the 10th today kind of got me back on track.  I bogeyed the 8th after hitting it in the water and hit a really great 3-iron into 10 close and I missed the eagle putt, but the birdie got me back moving in the right direction.   
  
  Q.  What was the wind doing on 8?   
 ADAM SCOTT:  It was into hard left to right, and I just mis-hit it, and I really had to strike it perfectly.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)   
 ADAM SCOTT:  I've worked a little bit on my left-handed swing.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)   
 ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, I thought I hit it better than what I did, but I think it got caught in the grass just in front -- sitting up against the cut of the rough.  I thought I hit it better than what it looked like, but I was happy with the result anyway.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT