JOHNNIE WALKER CLASSIC
February 29, 2008
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  Adam, thanks for joining us.  Second straight round 4-under par 68, you must be pleased with where you are through two rounds of the Johnnie Walker Classic.   
 ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, I'm very pleased.  Obviously at the moment I'm right in contention, so that's a good spot to be.  I didn't play quite as well today as I did yesterday but still managed to have a good round.   
 You know, looking forward to the weekend and hopefully don't have too much work to do to make up some ground on the leaders.   
 CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  Was the course playing any different this morning from yesterday afternoon?   
 ADAM SCOTT:  Not really.  It's just tricky.  You've really got to hit the fairway and that's your only opportunity for scoring.  It's pretty unpredictable out of the rough.  Just trying to get the ball in the fairway and give myself a chance.   
 CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  You mentioned earlier that you didn't play as well as you did yesterday.  What went wrong today?   
 ADAM SCOTT:  I really didn't swing the club as well as I did yesterday.  Although my shots weren't too bad, it just wasn't feeling quite as sharp as I was yesterday, and a bit out of rhythm.   
 I think too early out of bed this morning maybe.   
  
  Q.  The greens are tough and grainy as they have been, was it difficult to deal with?   
 ADAM SCOTT:  The greens?  They are better in the morning.  I think around this time they start growing and they slow down a lot in the afternoon.   
 But they are a lot smoother in the morning.   
  
  Q.  How was your putting today?   
 ADAM SCOTT:  I putted okay today.  I hit a lot of good putts but just didn't really make any.  Yesterday I made some nice putts.   
  
  Q.  You're world number five and the highest ranked player in the field, is it important to keep your name on the leaderboard from the word go?   
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, it's good to get on the leaderboard early. You're always in touch with whatever that is going on out there. Around this course, it's very hard to make up a lot of shots. So being up there with the leaders is a good spot right now.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT