JOHNNIE WALKER CLASSIC
February 27, 2008
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  Adam, thanks for joining us this afternoon, and welcome to the 2008 Johnnie Walker Classic.  First off let's get your thoughts on the golf course after you played in the Pro-Am this morning.   
 ADAM SCOTT:  The course is very fair to say the least.  There's a lot of slope on the fairways and greens, so you have to be very precise with what you're hitting off the tee, and there's certainly a bit of strategy on the front nine.  I think the back nine is a little more straightforward, but the front nine can be played many different ways.   
 And then getting the hang of putting on the greens; the grain is a big influence here, and lag putting will be difficult this week, to lag it up close to the hole.  So there's plenty to think about out there.   
 CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  I believe this is your first trip ever to India, just your thoughts in general about the place and about the Johnnie Walker Classic being such a big tournament, coming over to India for the first time.   
 ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, there's certainly a big push for golf in India it seems.  There was a new event here on The European Tour a couple of weeks ago and it's good to see.  This is the part of the game that I love, getting the opportunity to travel the world and coming to places that I may not have been able to go to.   
 So, you know, it's exciting for me to be here for the first time and hopefully I'll get to see more than the hotel and the golf course.   
 CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  Last week in America in the Match Play, not quite what you wanted?   
 ADAM SCOTT:  No.  My play was quite good.  I didn't get the result I wanted.  I kind of handed the match over to Woody Austin quite easily, which is never a good feeling.  You know, I put together six birdies and no bogeys in that match, and sometimes in match play, that's not good enough.   
 So I know I'm playing well.  Just got to get back into the swing of stroke play and four good rounds under my belt here.   
  
  Q.  Your goals for the week?   
 ADAM SCOTT:  Just to win, really.  It's just competitive instinct in every guy out here who wants to win, and I think whether you're playing really well or really poorly, you know you can do better, and you can win.  The feeling of winning is I think the greatest feeling you can get out of the game, and that should be good motivation for you.   
  
  Q.  Why are so many Australians playing around the world, good Australians; was it because of Greg Norman or was it because of other factors?  And can Indian golf take anything from the Aussie experience so that we can get even further ahead in golf, in the game?   
 ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, absolutely.  I think part of the fact there are so many good Australians is a carry-on effect of what Greg Norman did for the game in Australia.   
 But also, you know, the government and the states put together good programmes for golf, and after Greg Norman did so well and created such an interest in the game, the Australian Institute of Sport and Victorian Institute of Sport run great golf programmes, and there are some others, as well, which really teach young golfers what they need to know about the game, and certainly helps them develop.   
 I would say that looking at programmes like those institutes have, would be fantastic for the game over here because it can really, it really helps young talent develop.   
  
  Q.  You had a sensational round in the Qatar Masters last round, 11-under; hoping to repeat the same over here?   
 ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, I hope so.  It was a little hard for me to see 11-under out there today, though.  Hopefully I won't need to shoot 11-under to win here on Sunday.  Maybe something a little easier.   
  
  Q.  On a nicer note, Maria Sharapova said she had a big crush on you.  Have you ever met her and what is your reaction to that?   
 ADAM SCOTT:  No, I haven't met Maria, but that's nice.  She's a good-looking girl, good tennis player.  Maybe we'll run into each other one day, I don't know.   
  
  Q.  What are your thoughts about the course in comparison to courses in Australia, Europe and the U.S.?   
 ADAM SCOTT:  It's similar to resort golf courses in Australia.  I think that's how I'd class this golf course, a resort golf course.  It has a lot of water in play, which makes golf holes difficult very easily.   
 I was saying before, with the amount of undulation on the golf course, there's some strategy.  You need to make a bit of a plan of how you're going to play the course.  So it can be played a few different ways, a driver or an iron off the tee.  It makes you think out there.   
  
  Q.  Any idea about the winning score?   
 ADAM SCOTT:  I really -- I'm not sure.  I can see a lot of birdies out there, but I can see disaster happening quite quickly.  So I'm not too sure what a good score is at the moment.  I think we'll just have to wait and see how it pans out tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  Butch Harmon said recently that you were the player most likely to challenge Tiger Woods in the future.  I wondered how you reacted to those comments?   
 ADAM SCOTT:  No pressure, right?  (Chuckling.)   
Yeah, I certainly have a desire to do that.  But it seems like I put together the pieces of the game very slowly, so he always seems to be getting further and further ahead, which isn't very encouraging.   
 You know, I feel like I've developed a lot as a golfer over the last few years, and I feel like I've got the right attitude and the right mind set in place to give myself the best opportunity.   
 Realistically, though, I don't see anybody challenging him week-in, week-out.  I see the opportunity for a few players to have their moments where they can challenge him, but he really is on a different level to us at the moment.  Maybe he'll win every week this year, we'll see but he normally doesn't win every week, so there is opportunities to beat him.   
  
  Q.  If there is one major which you think you can win over all the others, which one is it?   
 ADAM SCOTT:  I'd like to think it would be the Masters.  Obviously I enjoy Augusta National --   
  
  Q.  But in terms of your game?   
 ADAM SCOTT:  I think it does.  I really feel like I've got a game that can suit most places.  I feel like I can adapt to conditions and certainly, my game has developed a lot on links golf courses, so I don't mind playing The Open.  But Augusta, yeah, maybe it suits my game a little better.   
 CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  Thanks, Adam, for coming in and good luck this week.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT