ABU DHABI GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 17, 2008
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  In the end, Adam, I think you must be pretty pleased? 
 ADAM SCOTT:  Absolutely.  It wasn't that easy out there today.  Stayed very patient and waited for my opportunities, but I played a pretty solid round.  In the middle, though, a few good saves, but kept everything going my way, so nice to finish with two birdies in the last three. 

 Q.  You didn't have the greatest start, of course, with a bogey on the 1st. 
 ADAM SCOTT:  That wasn't the way I wanted to start the year, with a three-putt on the 1st, but fortunately got that straight back and managed to put together a solid round. 

 Q.  It was a nice grouping, wasn't it, with Luke and Lee, as well, and the three of you seemed to feed off each other just a little bit? 
 ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, I think we were all a little frustrated out there at some point out there because the putts weren't quite going.  Everyone was playing quite well.  But like I said, it was tough, and we all stayed pretty patient.  Lee finished strong and Luke dropped a couple coming in, but I think all of us are pretty happy with how we're playing. 

 Q.  Inevitably this early in the season there's a little bit of rust, isn't there, whatever.  Were you reasonably happy with your game? 
 ADAM SCOTT:  I was.  I was surprisingly pleased with it today.  I wasn't expecting too much because I can't say that my practise leading up to it was looking ideal. 
 You know, certainly I think I played nicely today, so hopefully a sign of good things coming. 

 Q.  And a quick word on the course? 
 ADAM SCOTT:  The course is fantastic.  It's held up really well with the rain, and I think it's very demanding.  It's actually one of the few courses where we hit a lot of drivers these days.  I like the way it sets up, but it is a bit of a slow-go.  A lot of long holes out there. 

 Q.  So a little more to come from you? 
 ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, hopefully.  I've got three more days I've got to play really well.  I think the quality of the field shows that it'll be good golf required this week. 

 Q.  Can I ask you about your thinking in coming here and coming back to Qatar where you've won in the past? 
 ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, well, I'm trying to make a bit of an effort to get my numbers back up on the European Tour this year, and certainly moving into next year with the race for Dubai in mind and kind of leaving all options open.  It's a nice opportunity for me to get back to the Middle East.  It's been such a long time since I was here last. 
 You know, this is one of the booming golf markets of the world, so I certainly want to get myself involved over here. 

 Q.  I seem to recall you voicing a little sadness that you couldn't defend your title last time in Qatar? 
 ADAM SCOTT:  Absolutely.  You want to go and defend your titles, but it was -- everything was fine in the end, but it was -- the week before the stuff in Iraq broke out, and everything pointed to it being safe, but I wasn't so comfortable with it.  I'm looking forward to going back now, for sure, and you know, have a go at kind of defending. 

 Q.  Is this a part of the world that you actually like, as well as appreciating its growth in the market? 
 ADAM SCOTT:  Absolutely.  I mean, how can you not like it?  Other than the last two days, the weather is normally perfect.  But it's a fantastic place and an incredible culture, and I certainly enjoy experiencing it when I'm over here. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT