U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2019
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Well, you doubled your score for the first three days today, 6-under.  How did you find Pebble Beach Golf Links today?  
ADAM SCOTT: Well, it was actually the same as every other day, which was kind of nice.  The course was challenging but rewarding good shots.  And for about 12 holes I hit a lot of good shots and made some putts and was feeling pretty good out there.  But 13 was really costly and made coming in difficult for me.  I didn't have that many chances coming in.   
A little disappointing to finish at 6-under when I was standing on the 13th tee at 9-under.  And of course you know that if you can just get it in the clubhouse, you never know what can happen.  Standing here straight off the green I'm very disappointed in myself, but there was lots of good stuff this week, and enjoyable week on the golf course here for sure.   
 Q.  When you have the likes of Brooks who Xander just said is like a cockroach and won't go away, and Gary, do you feel -- and part of maybe what -- you coming in on the finishing holes, is there a feeling of I've got to make a low number, and that puts you out of your comfort zone?  
ADAM SCOTT: No, I'd already had the low number, I just -- I made a terrible swing off the 13th hole.  I don't know why.  I wasn't thinking -- at that time I was three shots behind.  I've played so many of these you can never force anything at the U.S. Open.  I didn't force it to get to where I was.  So I just made a poor swing.   
 Q.  Can you take us tee-to-green from the driver to the hole-out at 13?  
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, well, I didn't know if it was out.  It was just out by a couple of inches.  But I'd hit a provisional in the fairway and hit a nice 9-iron into the green.  And the putt -- good putt, just missed.  So I walked off with double, but then got one back at the next.  I was still thinking I was in good shape with a good finish, like yesterday's finish would have gone a long way for me today.   
But it's easier said than done.  I missed 15 fairway and misjudged the shot into 16, three-putted, and 17 left it above the hole.  And 17 pin today is not easy.  It's on a pretty serious slope there.  And putting from above the hole was fast.  It's a U.S. Open.  It's hard, and bogeys are easy.   
 Q.  You're right out of scoring, obviously, and, as you said disappointed, but to be where you are, just talk about maybe the positives that you can take away from this week?  
ADAM SCOTT: Well, there was lots of positives.  Again, I think certainly three of the rounds I wasn't feeling completely in control of my golf swing, but I managed it very well.  And my short game is pretty sharp again, but it's very close.  And if you're not quite on at U.S. Open and having a top-10 finish, then something is really good.   
There's lots of good stuff all throughout my game.  My consistency is there at the moment.  But I just need to be a little bit closer going into a Sunday at one of these things.  I think that's really the big takeaway.  And I'll be working on that.  But I like where my game is at, and I think I just have to keep working really hard at it and stay hungry.   
 Q.  Xander said in a jovial way Brooks is like a cockroach who won't go away, this guy keeps putting up big numbers.  When he doesn't win, he's damn close, like at the Masters.  Your thoughts on what he's been able to do?  
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, he's definitely found the recipe to make himself perform at the big ones.  Of course not everyone does that and it's very hard to consistently play this well.  But he musn't be changing too much because he's running with it.  And I respect him a lot, for him to be in contention four or five times and have won four, certainly envy that, because it's been kind of the other way for me.  And I look forward to the next time I'm in there, I don't care if Brooks is there, I'm happy to have a crack at him.   
 Q.  How do you feel about Portrush?  
ADAM SCOTT: I'm excited, I haven't played there before.  Everyone says how spectacular it is.  And that's going to be my next event.  I can't wait to go play some links.  I had some close calls at The Open, too, and I'd like to get stuck in there.  I like the way I'm playing going into The Open.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT