THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
September 14, 2007
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Talk about your round today. 
 ADAM SCOTT:  My round today wasn't as good as the first round, but, you know, got off to a bit of a scratchy start and made some good saves to kind of stay where I was and then got it going in the middle and then I was a bit scratchy toward the end. 
 I'd like to hit it a little better over the weekend to keep myself right in it. 

 Q.  What does a day like today do for you mentally, just keeping your focus? 
 ADAM SCOTT:  Well, I'm glad we got it all in.  It was just pretty much continuous golf since we got here this morning.  But it's nice to see the tee times go back to late so we sleep in tomorrow. 

 Q.  Obviously you probably heard the roars out there.  Did you know he shot 28 on the front nine? 
 ADAM SCOTT:  Well, I figured that out when I did some math on the 13th green.  That's pretty impressive.  Luckily for all of us, he kind of slowed down a little bit and kept a tournament of it. 

 Q.  What's that like when you know you've got to go low just to stay in contention? 
 ADAM SCOTT:  It's a good thing.  I mean, I played well and I felt like I could have kept it going but I just didn't hit the quality of shots that I needed to.  You know, when he's out there running, we don't fear it, we've just got to get after him, but sometimes he's just better than us. 

 Q.  It's basically like target practice out there where you can just fire at pins.  Is that kind of golf fun for you? 
 ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, it is, absolutely.  A lot of the time this year we've played very difficult golf courses, and if you're struggling it's not very much fun to do that.  So this week I'm playing well and the greens are receiving these shots obviously, they're soft.  It's fun to see some balls get near the holes, yeah. 

 Q.  Playing so many tough tournaments this year, the TOUR Championship, turning out to be this easy of a course, it seems strange to end the season with that. 
 ADAM SCOTT:  It's only because of the unfortunate circumstance on the greens.  If you remember back to last year when they were firm and fast the scoring wasn't that good. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT