THE PRESIDENTS CUP
September 25, 2007
Stuart Appleby
Ian Baker-Finch
K.J. Choi
Nick O'Hern
Geoff Ogilvy
Adam Scott
Mike Weir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  We'd like to welcome six members of the International Presidents Cup Team.  First from Canada, Mike Weir.  We have four players from Australia, Stuart Appleby, Nick O'Hern, Geoff Ogilvy and Adam Scott and from Korea, K.J. Choi, who is joined by his interpreter, Michael Yin.  We'll go straight into questions.   
  
  Q.  First question is for Mike.  This morning Mr. Nicklaus and Mr. Player talked about how it would be possible to see you against Tiger Woods on Sunday.  What are your thoughts?   
 MIKE WEIR:  Well, we'll see.  Sunday is a long ways away.  We obviously know what he can do.  I definitely look forward to the challenge if that comes to be true on Sunday.   
 But as I said before, I think, you know, Gary will talk about all of the possible pairings and see who is playing the best.  Obviously anyone who is playing the best will go against him.   
  
  Q.  Just as someone who is new to this team format, what are your thoughts on what it's been like?  There's been a feeling that sometimes the International Team plays under a flag that doesn't exist but once every two years and it's a collection of players, etc.  How do you qualify the team spirit?   
 GEOFF OGILVY:  The team spirit so far is pretty impressive.  There's only two, just me and Rory, who haven't been here before these guys have all been part of the same team before.   
 The evidence so far is it's a pretty strong team unit.  I think they have just fallen back into the way they were two years ago.  I think it's pretty strong.   
  
  Q.  As kind of a follow for most of the team, whoever wants to answer, any feeling of coming off a grinding, you know, four weeks, and then playing this?  Are you fresh, is it tiring?  Stuart, Mr. Turning Point, can answer that if you want to.   
 STUART APPLEBY:  I think a few of us played last week.  For me, I felt like I played a lot but I don't feel tired.  I think I always knew this was something I wanted to get into so I always had the energy to get across the line and I'm not playing much after this, so this is it.  I think we're all ready to go, even if we are a little fatigued, even though the schedule has been pretty busy the last few months.   
  
  Q.  Mike, obviously you're a veteran player on this team, playing in your home country, and also Jim Furyk is pretty popular here, too.  He's won a couple of Canadian Opens; is he getting in on your territory a little bit?   
 MIKE WEIR:  Yeah, obviously Jim has won the last couple Canadian Opens.  He's always come and supported Canadian golf and the Canadian Open.  It's always great to have the top players come and play here.   
 For myself, it's my fourth Cup, and the first one being here; as I said many times, I talked to Commissioner many years ago about the possibility of coming here, and to finally have this week upon us is pretty special.   
 The fans today were a little quiet, we were talking about it today, but as the day wore on, everybody started waking up a little bit.  The excitement started to grow; it's Tuesday.  As a fan of golf and golf in this country and wanting golf in this country to grow in popularity as a fan, as well, I'm excited for that, so looking forward to the week.   
  
  Q.  Is there a danger of putting added pressure on yourself because it is in your country?   
 MIKE WEIR:  Yeah, for sure.  I'm the only Canadian guy here, but at the same time, I look at it as more excitement than anything.  I've looked to this for a long time.  I've had three weeks off, I'm rested and ready to go and my game feels good.   
 You know, we've got 11 horses here that are going to help me out, as well.  So it's a little different than the individual game that we normally play.   
  
  Q.  Mike, no disrespect to the other 22 members on both sides, but should Captains Nicklaus and Player put you together on Sunday, would that be icing on the cake for Canadian golf fans?   
 MIKE WEIR:  That's tough for me to answer that, as far as -- we want to win.  If I'm playing really well, you know, I'd love the chance to play him.   
 It might be icing on the cake for me to get a chance to get in there and possibly beat him.  You know, I know come Sunday in singles, we just want to pair up who is going to match up the best.  As I said, this is my fourth time.  I haven't been on a winning team yet; we tied once and lost twice.  Gary wants to make sure that we do the right thing, not just for myself to put me against Tiger, but for everybody.  We're trying to win this.   
  
  Q.  If you were to play Tiger, would you have any advice for him?   
 NICK O'HERN:  Sorry, I missed that one.   
 MIKE WEIR:  Maybe I should ask Nick.   
  
  Q.  What advice do you have for Mike?   
 NICK O'HERN:  He's not much good.  He's left-handed.  (Laughter).   
  
  Q.  I was watching some of the play on 12, the par 5 and a bunch of guys, unless they were missing it left, they were taking it right over the trees on the left side and it might not have been an option that Rees Jones contemplated when he created that golf hole.  Was that the line you were taking?   
 STUART APPLEBY:  I hit I thought two bad shots left, one was in the rough and one was down the middle of the fairway.  I think you're right, it looked like hitting a hook you wouldn't have the option.  Retief hit a drive down there just in the right side of the fairway.  There was no wind and I think that probably almost for most of the guys is out of the option.   
  
  Q.  There are a lot of doglegs here.  Is there an option to the guy who can carry the ball another 20 yards?   
 STUART APPLEBY:  That carries 295, something like that.  It's playing pretty short today but it would be a big hit, no wind.  And if it gets cold like some of the temperatures they are looking at, that's out of the question.   
  
  Q.  Starting with Nick and working your way down, when this first started, it was seen as sort of a poor cousin to the Ryder Cup and felt like it didn't have the emotion of the Ryder Cup.  How do you guys see it now?  Is it something that you're fired up about playing?  Do you want to win, and why do you want to win?   
 NICK O'HERN:  Well, it's a very special event for me personally.  And any chance you get to represent your country or in this case, the International Team, it's pretty rare in golf that you get that opportunity.   
 And especially with the history of the last couple of Presidents Cups, whether it's come down to the wire, everyone would love to chalk 1-up for the Internationals this week.   
 You know, the golf course is in fantastic condition.  And I think everyone here is pretty fired up and ready to go.   
 GEOFF OGILVY:  Yeah, what do you say?  There were some fun finishes early on, I remember Freddie doing a couple of cool things at RTJ, but I think a few of the boys in /SKWRO berg, that's what made this event all of a sudden a pretty competitive affair.   
 The two best golfers in the world holing massive putts in the dark at the end -- I was watching it on TV and it would have been unbelievable to be there.  I think that probably created the competitive -- I think last time was obviously a pretty intense -- or at least Sunday looked tense.  I think it's promoted itself from what started out as being the poorer cousin, I think it's a pretty strong event on its own now.   
 ADAM SCOTT:  If you look at the teams on paper, it's definitely the stronger event player-wise.  The International side is probably the strongest you've ever seen coming into an event.   
 Like Geoff said, I think they got a kick in South Africa.  But from our team, from what I can deserve, there's no lack of desire to be here at all.  This is our only team event for the international guys.  The Americans have to play one every year.  So from our side, we're eager to be here and we're keen to do well.   
 MIKE WEIR:  Yeah, I totally agree.  It just shows the strength of world golf.  You look at our team, I remember the first team I made, I might have been -- this is my second year on the Tour, had some good finishes and one win, I may have been just inside the Top-100 in the world and I was maybe the eighth guy on the team.   
 Now it's much tighter and much tougher to get on this team from the first time.  So I think, you know, from that perspective.  It's tougher to get on the team and more guys are gunning to get on the team and that means all that much more to all of us players from different parts of the world to make it much stronger.   
 STUART APPLEBY:  The years have gotten much stronger there's no doubt.  My first year was '98 and we had Frank Nobilo and Greg Turner were the picks and we went down quite a long ways World Ranking-wise compared to today.   
 It's gone ahead way quicker than the Ryder Cup ever could have, with the promotions that has been done since the mid 90s has been phenomenal.  You do need to have some tight tussles; there's been had some whitewashes and some good ones.  There's been some evolution where the Ryder Cup; it's not pitted out, but it's really leveling out.  It's not going to get any more exciting I guess than what they had just recently.   
 We've come along way and as an International Team, we need to start winning, because we have the desire, like Scotty said; we all want to be here, but we have to taste victory.  It's been a while.   
 K.J. CHOI:  I think the Presidents Cup doesn't fall behind at all to the Ryder Cup.  It's a tournament where we international players can get together and showcase to the world our talents against the U.S. Team.  And it definitely sets a good foundation to improve at least my game; I believe it proves the level of skill of all of the players on our team.  I'm looking forward to having a very good week this week.   
  
  Q.  When you do watch the Ryder Cup, is there anything that you can take from watching why the Europeans are so successful against the Americans?   
 STUART APPLEBY:  It looks like they made a lot of putts, in this last cup they made a lot of putts.  Last year, it was that many putts that the Americans made on the last that just kept shutting us down.  The bottom line is making those putts when those opportunities come up.   
 Putting is basically everything.  You're not going to lose a match if you've got a team that's putting really well.   
  
  Q.  Mike, first welcome to Montréal and to everyone.  On the first question you didn't seem quite nervous or excited about a possible match-up with Tiger on Sunday.  But you're at home; could you stay calm and without emotions playing in a match-up with Tiger?   
 MIKE WEIR:  Well, there's a lot of golf to be played until Sunday.  So that's why I'm not concerning myself with that now.   
 I'm going to have however many matches Gary puts me in to play, and I'm going to be focused on those matches.  Like I said, Sunday is a long ways away.  I don't even want to think about that now, and if it does happen, I'll deal with it Saturday night when it comes.   
  
  Q.  And to you, is it the strongest international competition?   
 MIKE WEIR:  Our team?   
  
  Q.  This Presidents Cup.   
 MIKE WEIR:  I'm not sure I --   
  
  Q.  With all of the players we see here.   
 MIKE WEIR:  Yes, our team is very strong.  We'll see.  Hopefully -- we don't start until Thursday, and once we see how the matches go, it will be a great competition as it has been the last couple of years.  Both teams are gone and as Stewie said, it comes down to who is making the putts.   
  
  Q.  How does this event compare to being in contention for a major championship?   
 MIKE WEIR:  Do you want me to answer that?   
 It's different.  You have a partner out there.  So there's maybe a little more strategy involved and odds-and-even holes and shots off of holes because your partner wants a certain approach into a green, so it's quite a bit different than a major championship.  It's team golf, which is very different than individual, and all of the things that you have to deal with on your own.   
  
  Q.  Nick, you had the best record against Tiger in match play, is there too much emphasis put on it, it's a team game, is there too much emphasis put on a singles match, whoever plays Tiger?   
 NICK O'HERN:  It's definitely sounding like it, yeah.  (Laughter).   
 At the end of the day, it's just one point.  Talking about how the Europeans have been so successful in the Ryder Cup, if you look at their four-ball and foursomes record, it always seems like they have a lead going into the singles.  And if you can gain that edge by Sunday, it really does put the pressure on the other team to perform well.   
 I think what we have in common with the Europeans is the guys just get on so well, and you've got some great match-ups.  Obviously with the four Australians, possibly four South Africans, we all know each other's games pretty well and we all get along pretty well.  And you have obviously K.J. and Angel and Vijay and Mike, can't forget him.   
 It's just a great bunch of guys, and the last Presidents Cup was my first one and I think we probably had more fun losing than they did winning.  It's been a blast.   
  
  Q.  Excluding yourself, who would you nominate to play Tiger in singles?   
 NICK O'HERN:  Whoever is playing the best.  You know, whoever plays Tiger is going to have their hands full, but as I said, you know, he's one point and there are a lot of other matches that are just as important.  You know, it's just a fact of life that the media puts so much emphasis on whoever he's playing.  At the end of the day, we're all just trying to win our matches.   
  
  Q.  No name?   
 NICK O'HERN:  No.  I think just whoever is playing well, it's as simple as that.   
  
  Q.  I assume you guys know roughly anyway who your partners are going to be on Thursday, I'm sure you've discussed it anyway; is there any one mitigating factor that goes into choosing a partner, is it knowing each other's game, like Nick had said about the Australians; is it chemistry or knowing the other guy?   
 MIKE WEIR:  It's all of the above.  Golf ball is a factor.  But I think chemistry with the player.  There's a bunch of different theories that we sit around and talk about and figure it all out.  All of the above what you said, they are all a factor.   
  
  Q.  Is it different for each player, like you might be different from Adam or different from Stuart?   
 STUART APPLEBY:  Look, there's no secret to it.  You know all of the dynamics of how you're going to pair up:  Ball, length, short, long, wide, whatever.  There are differences between foursomes and best-ball.  So there's no secret.  The bottom line is you've got to play well.  Ultimately you want to have one guy on his game pretty good and you want one guy who is potentially explosive, he may not always be consistent but he's explosive.  There's nothing perfect about it.   
  
  Q.  What was it like being on the wrong end of that celebration on the 18th green at RTJ against DiMarco and how meaningful was it for you to get back on this team just to get those thoughts out?   
 STUART APPLEBY:  Chris and I had some great battles.  I certainly haven't got the number on him yet.  We probably had one of best ones last year.  We really played great, both of us.   
 I don't know.  I mean, that's what you remember.  I'll never forget that.  I remember playing really, really well and hit a great drive down 18 and I saw Chris where he was and I thought he's in a lot of trouble there.  So I putt my in, hit my shot and I thought I made it and had all of these great things going on and obviously he hit a great shot.  To be on the losing ends it was pretty gutting, the entire team felt like I did, and it was all over and it was close.  Being the guy, I don't think it makes any different, everyone felt the same.  I tried my best and did my best and it wasn't enough.  But that makes you want to just get another gear because obviously the other side of the deal is elation.  It's been a while, in '98 we had it and we had it easy in the end and that was on home soil, so I know how Mike feels about getting a win; it was huge for us basically playing home soil, home course.  But you don't want whitewashes.   
  
  Q.  I can't think of too many guys who have been on a winning team on the international, just you and Vijay and Ernie?   
 STUART APPLEBY:  It's been a long time.  Our team has got better.  I don't think the American Team has got much better.  It's improved or it's matured, but we've come leaps and bounds and even when we won in '98, we didn't have a great team.  We had a good team.  But now when you look at the 2007 team, you think, wow, this is way better than what we would ever have dreamed of.  Certainly it's not a certainty that we are not going to win the next Cups in the future, because the Americans are that good; but, we have the best chance from now on and forever and ever.   
  
  Q.  What challenges do you face trying to focus just on your golf game this week because you are sort of a host?   
 MIKE WEIR:  I think it's the same challenges as being at the Canadian Open, maybe a little more attention, or a lot more attention than playing in a regular TOUR event.  That's basically it.   
 But once, you know, you kind of get between the ropes and on the course on Thursday, all of the autographs stop and you can focus on golf and your game.   
  
  Q.  Do you feel that the International Team has something to prove this time out?  There's always this talk that the European Ryder Cup Team has something to prove because people say that that tour is not as strong as the PGA TOUR.  Do you guys feel there's more emotion involved this time?   
 STUART APPLEBY:  I can understand the European rivalry with the U.S. Tour.  I think that might be a bit of the seed of the rivalry a bit.  I mean, we all live in the U.S., it's good, I'm glad we can be a part of it.  I would never have wanted to be an Australian sitting there, thinking, oh, man, I wish someone would think of another way to play the Ryder Cup, because now we have it.  I think it would be a loss if I never ever got on a team and never known what it was like, never had a win and never experienced being in that format at a world-class level certainly would be a little bit of a hole.   
  
  Q.  Given the severity of the greens here, long putts might not be as makeable as other venues --   
 GEOFF OGILVY:  We were actually saying a lot of putts are going to go in this week because the greens are so perfect.  I don't know, there are some slopes.  But if you want to watch professionals hole putts, put on a team match, play events, and holes will go in from everywhere.  The surface is perfect, it's a perfect speed and they are perfect greens.   
 I don't know, I think guys will hole everything out here I would think.   
  
  Q.  Stuart, you had mentioned '98, what were the distractions and outside things that you guys had to deal with?   
 STUART APPLEBY:  There's no distraction for any Australians.  The Americans were in trouble because they had to deal with the heat and the flies so, it was normal for us.  And it was unusual.  (Laughter).   
 I think the real thing that made us get an advantage was we had a lot of heat and the wind was blowing and it was hot and we had the southerly change on Sunday.  So the Americans didn't get to see the course in the practice rounds like it can be, and it can be an animal so the Australians and New Zealanders had an advantage.  But distractions, I don't know.  I don't really remember a huge amount about that sort of stuff, but I felt, I don't know about Mike, but I felt relaxed at home and playing a course I knew well.  So those things helped.   
  
  Q.  If it came down to a Happy Gilmore style brawl on a green --   
 STUART APPLEBY:  Don't mention Tiger Woods, please.   
  
  Q.  Would you guys beat Team USA in a hockey fight?   
 STUART APPLEBY:  This is almost as bad.  (Laughter).   
 MIKE WEIR:  Is this like Candid Camera back there or something?  (Laughter).   
  
  Q.  Ian, you've done this before, and I'm just curious, with Gary asking you to do it again, what makes you want to take it on as an assistant captain to be involved?  What's the source of the enjoyment for you coming in to these international competitions?   
 IAN BAKER-FINCH:  I'm honored to be here and to be asked by Gary and to be a part of the team and the guys make me feel like a part of the team.  It's been the fourth time I've been the co-captain, three times in a row with Gary and then back with Peter Thompson in  '96.  I would have been on these teams before it started.   
 And I always talk with the players that would have been on these teams in those days, 15, 20 years ago, and we were always hoping we could be a part of a team competition like this.  Now I'm getting my chance, although it's not as a player.  I feel just as good about it.  I really feel the part of the team and I do everything I possibly can to help them in any way I can.  So it's great to be back, great to be in Canada, and it's great to have Mike on the team and a few of the old-timers coming back, a couple of rookies.  It's going to be a great week.   
  
  Q.  Maybe a golf question, maybe for Adam.  Do you find this a particularly strategic golf course in that the par 3s are all on odds and the two long par 5s are evens?  Does this affect the way that you match the team or practice or anything?   
 ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, a little bit.  If you're thinking about who is going to be hitting what shot off what tee, you can take that into account depending on who you're playing with.   
 You know, I remember the last time at RTJ, I played with Goose, and it seemed he putted for about 12 holes in a row and he was putting great so, it worked out well for us.  I hit most of the shots into the greens, and he putted, and that worked out well.   
 So we were hitting off the right tees so that I would be hitting into the greens and he would do most of the putting because he was putting so well.  With the way the course is set up here, you can certainly have a look at that.   
  
  Q.  He'll be odds and you would be even.   
 ADAM SCOTT:  Right.   
  
  Q.  For whomever, Paul Casey was quoted a couple of years ago, and I think we understand what he meant when he said that for one week, you learn to properly hate the Americans during match play.  Is that harder to do for you since you're neighbors and in some cases, you're wives?  (Laughter)?   
 ADAM SCOTT:  I'm not sure exactly -- I might leave that alone.  (Laughter).   
 STUART APPLEBY:  That was great, you hate what, who?   
  
  Q.  You just learn to properly hate the Americans just for the one week for the match, to kind of get fired up about it.  Is it harder because you're neighbors and wives?   
 STUART APPLEBY:  You just want to beat them, you don't care where they are from.  It's just a team.  You are trying to do your team.  You can make it out like a coffee boiler if you want but it's just finding a way of getting that ball in the hole.  And whoever is at the losing end of it, that's fine, and if it's a bunch of Americans, so be it.   
  
  Q.  With all of the success you've had in the last year, is there something about your game that suits you for match play?   
 GEOFF OGILVY:  I play well in the last week in February, I think that's a common thread.  I've played well the last two years there, I don't know.  Putted well.  Everyone says putting.  I like match play and I enjoy it.   
  
  Q.  One of the things that Nick said that the International Team has actually got a pretty good record in the teams but pretty ordinary with the singles on Sunday.  What do you think is behind that and what do you do to change it around?   
 ADAM SCOTT:  Our singles so important.  My record is dismal and that's something I'd like to change this week for sure.  But we've lost it on Sunday every -- well, the last two events that I've been involved in.  We had a good lead in South Africa, and threw it away, and that was heartbreaking down there.  Because it was a fantastic week, and last year, you know, seeing every match that went up to the 18th, just we lost the 18th hole most of the week.   
 And then on Sunday, we didn't get it done either.  You know, singles matches are tough and it's a grind.  No matter who you play, it's 18 holes match play, and it's a little unpredictable.  So I think me personally, from my experience, I need to knuckle down a little bit more and every shot counts twice as much.   
  
  Q.  Just wondering, most of the golfers on this side of the table don't play in team events.  How different is it to play with a team and with guys that you normally compete against?  Mike, since we're at home?   
 MIKE WEIR:  Yeah, I think I answered that earlier.  It's just different compared to a regular event when you're preparing on your own and doing everything on your own.  You have other guys who you're playing practice rounds with and then paying attention to what might be a good pairing and figuring if there's different holes they might play.  One might tee off and you might want one guy to hit in.  There's a different strategy involved Monday through Wednesday before we start, to figure all that out.  So it's quite a bit different.   
  
  Q.  What about having people root for you?   
 MIKE WEIR:  Yeah, it's great to have -- yeah, I know myself, I'm sure a lot of the guys here have played a lot of team sports growing up before we chose our profession of being an independent contractor and doing it on our own.  I know I miss team sports and the locker room atmosphere of the camaraderie, and that's what's great about this event.  I'll never forget my first one at RTJ and guys I looked up to, the Shark, being around great players that have been on the team and getting to know them and know their families.  As I said when you're out there a week on the TOUR, you don't really get to do that much.  You do your own thing and you're going home and getting room service.  It's a much different atmosphere and it's great getting to know all of the guys.   
  
  Q.  Who is the underdog this week and who is the favorite and why?   
 NICK O'HERN:  I haven't actually looked at it on paper, but I know we're both very strong.  We're at home this week for the Internationals.  So it would be pretty disappointing to not take a victory away from the week.  So I think we're looking pretty good.   
  
  Q.  Stuart, what do you think?  Are you guys the underdog because of the past record?   
 STUART APPLEBY:  We go every week and we're always about doing our own thing and now all of a sudden you have to do other things with other people.  I think it's hard not to just all join us all together and I don't know if we are looking at their team, I'm not really looking at it, I'm just seeing how we pair up.  I would say that we've got a team that's more chest-to-chest than it's ever been.  I think our team is going to get more mature, Scotty and Geoff have plenty of years left and there's a lot of new young talent, international talent.   
 I like our chances.  I think every year now it's going to be more.  We're not going to be the underdogs as much as we used to be in history.  I think we will be much more up front and it will be real disappointing if we don't have a real tussle to the last couple of hours in the day.  We've had days like Scotty said, but we just have to hit good putts; and when you get those putts and win, the ones that cross the line like last year for the Americans, that's what we've got to have.   
  
  Q.  I wanted to ask K.J. regarding the camaraderie; how is the language barrier an obstacle for you and how do you overcome that?   
 K.J. CHOI:  I don't think language is a problem at all.  It's more about keeping your physical condition and shape for the week, and really playing your game and make sure you and your partner have your strategy planned out.   
 I don't think language is a problem at all.   
  
  Q.  Having watched some of this on television the last several years, can you make the case that this International Team is stronger if not stronger than Europe, yet the last three Ryder Cups it was pretty much blowing the Americans out of the water and yet the last few Presidents Cups have been relatively close, why do you think that is?   
 GEOFF OGILVY:  I don't know, you guys are the ones that are supposed to analyze, not us.  I don't know, I think the Ryder Cup proves that it's all about -- I mean, when you put a bunch of individuals together, it's the sum of what that brings together.  It's not the individuals -- I think Europe will even admit that the American Team is stronger coming into the Ryder Cup yet the Americans struggle to beat the Europeans.  Somehow they manage to bring their best to the Ryder Cup every time they play.  Every single one of them seems to play well every time and maybe on the U.S., there are four or five guys out of form yet the Europeans never seem to have anybody out of form in the Ryder Cup.  There's something about bringing that bunch of guys together.   
 So on paper, this team probably looks stronger than all of the teams probably.  This team on paper is pretty impressive, if you just look at the World Rankings and how everyone has played in the last couple of years, winning majors and big tournaments; whatever the Europeans are doing with their chemistry, if we can work out what they do, I don't know.  I guess the point is, the Europeans have proved that it's not how good their players are as individuals; it's what they do when they come together.   
 I guess this team has come close to doing that.  In '98, it was a runaway; in South Africa, Americans had it going into Sunday.  This team is coming close to forging something like that.  I don't know if that answers the question or not, it was a bit of a ramble.   
  
  Q.  Which pairings in the team would be impossible because of the balls that you play, who could not play with whom because of two different balls?   
 MIKE WEIR:  Finchie?   
 IAN BAKER-FINCH:  There is an abundance of combinations.  I'll let you work out the math, but there's no combinations where no one will play with no one or someone won't play with someone else based on ball.  We've got 12 guys, they are all buddies, we are a team, we're a team for the week and we are going to embrace that time.  We are going to embrace our buddies and our mates and we are going to really enjoy each other's company when we are out there on the course, and that's how do you it in team competition.  Enjoy yourselves and have a great team and enjoy your buddies, it's a unique opportunity and have a great time.  I don't think it really matters if one guy has got a Titleist or one guy has got a Bridgestone or one guy has got a Nike.  It doesn't matter, you're out there having a great time.  In practice, you face up to those issues that you may have.  "Hey, I haven't used that ball before, let me hit a couple of shots, Mate."  I want to try that ball just in case we're partners.   
 Yeah, they are all big boys, they know how to play golf.  We look at what ball everyone uses, but we don't pair people up based on their ball.  They are all great combinations, every one of them.  K.J. Choi and any one of the other five guys at that table is a great team.  Mike Weir and anyone in the room is a great team.  Stuart Appleby, playing his fifth International Team and anyone else, is a great team.   
 So language doesn't matter.  You know, we're not going to team up K.J. Choi and Angel Cabrera just because they are not the English-speaking guys.  (Laughter) it doesn't matter.  So, trust me, we've got a lot of great players on the team and we've been thinking about it for so long, it's a great position to be in.   
  
  Q.  Just for Stuart or Mike or Adam, can you talk about not having Ernie in 2005 and having him back this year?   
 MIKE WEIR:  That's huge for our team, no question.  With how close it was last time and we didn't have big Ernie there, and he's been on every team, hasn't he, since the start, I believe.  He has obviously been one of the greatest players in the history of the game really and when he's not on the team, you miss him.  So obviously we are thrilled that he's here in Canada and on the team.   
 ADAM SCOTT:  I think his experience -- I had the opportunity to play with him in South Africa and it was my first time on the team.  I was pretty young and inexperienced and he kind of showed me the ropes a little.  You know, I learned a lot from that, and I think anyone who plays with him this week can learn something from him.  His experience is, you know, vast, and his talent is incredible.  It's great to have him back on the team.  I'm sure he's going to want to get out there and get some points on the board.   
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Thank you, gentlemen.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT