THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2007
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  How was it out there today?   
 ADAM SCOTT:  It was pretty trying towards the end of the day.  The temperature started dropping now, so the ball is not going very far.  And in this wind the back nine plays tough.  So it's a matter of just hanging in there.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)   
 ADAM SCOTT:  I've got to hit it a little better.  I'm just not striking it how I was in practice.  And I felt it slipping away from me on the back nine today.  I went out all right, but I started losing a few shots left and right, a bit of a timing thing, I think.  So if I can straighten that out and not put myself in too much trouble over the weekend, I think I can pick up a few shots.  I hear the weather is not great, so I don't think anyone is really going to be running away with it.  It's a matter of just hanging around.   
  
  Q.  Would you like to see the wind?   
 ADAM SCOTT:  Oh, absolutely, need to see the wind.  That's when I'll definitely need to strike it well.  Hopefully turn it around in the morning on the range.   
  
  Q.  How tough are those long par-4s on the back nine?   
 ADAM SCOTT:  They moved the tee up 20 yards for us and I had a driver and 3-iron into 18.  The 3-iron was probably the best shot I hit of the day.  Any mis-hit and the wind is just eating the ball up.   
  
  Q.  Can you formulate a strategy for the weekend in these conditions on this kind of course?   
 ADAM SCOTT:  Somewhat.  I think you've just got to have your strategy of what you're going to do on what hole, depending on which way the wind is and stick with it.   
 Today on 11 I changed and decided to go for the green, and it's just little things like that, that I think you've got to be a little more disciplined on them and just stick with your game plan.   
  
  Q.  Do you think you're still in contention?   
 ADAM SCOTT:  Absolutely.  A few under par tomorrow will be really a good score.  It's meant to rain all day, so I'm sure it's not going to be that easy.  I'm sure there will be some wind.  There are two guys up there, if they go out and shoot a great round of golf they can really put some distance between themselves and the field.  All I can do is go out and try to pick up a few shots tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  Other than a wardrobe change, anything else you need to do to prepare yourself for that tough weather tomorrow?   
 ADAM SCOTT:  No, hopefully Tiny, my caddie, brings all his arms so he can keep everything dry.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT