STANFORD ST. JUDE CHAMPIONSHIP
June 10, 2007
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Adam Scott, looked like the round kind of fell apart there on 14.  What happened?   
 ADAM SCOTT:  Well, on 14, just didn't commit to it on the shot and hit it into the water.   
 I proceeded to triple the hole and was not really good.  That was the end of my week.  I'm not going to be hard on myself.  I should think about next week and know that I'm playing good.   
  
  Q.  What kind of positives do you take into next week?   
 ADAM SCOTT:  Well, I played pretty much -- I played a lot of good holes this week, 70 good holes and a couple bad ones.   
 You know, at least I can learn, you know, got to keep focused on every single shot and hit one that wasn't very good on 14.  I have to keep that in my memory for next week.   
  
  Q.  Anything else you want to work on before next week?   
 ADAM SCOTT:  I'd like to do everything a little better.   
  
  Q.  Was this a disappointment for next week?   
 ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, absolutely.  The scoring wasn't that great out there.  It was very challenging and I did what I wanted to do.  I wanted to play in contention and I get to take something out of it and maybe that will hold me in good stead for next week.   
  Q.  Do you plan on coming back in the future?   
 ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, if the date fits.  I enjoyed it.   
 I think 14 put a damper on a lot of things.  It wasn't -- obviously, wasn't what I was looking for but pretty frustrating.   
  
  Q.  Were you watching Woody?   
 ADAM SCOTT:  On the 11th I saw that he was playing well and watched him birdie 12.  I think he birdied 12.  Then, you know, on 14 was just a poor shot and poor chip and poor putt.   
  
  Q.  What about 16?   
 ADAM SCOTT:  After 16 -- I hit a great shot on 16 and got in the worst lie I could find down there, so that was the end of it, really.  I knew I had to eagle 16 to have any hope.  I don't even know what he finished under.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT