U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2019
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So how did you feel out there?  The golf course kind of bent you over on that back nine there?  
ADAM SCOTT: Yep.   
 Q.  Everything was within millimeters of a great shot?  
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah.  It's just a cruel game sometimes because today was by far the most under control.  I had the golf swing and the ball.  And, you know, unfortunately, I can accept -- 11 was a bad bogey that was soft, and then, you know, because of the soft bogeys the first couple days, you leave yourself in a position where I feel like I need to go forward on 14 and make a birdie, you know, because laying up you probably never -- well, your chance of making bogey is very small.   
But I needed to get going a bit, and I'm a yard from being in the semi and just chipping it up and having a good look at it and making 5 at the worst.  You got to have a run at it.  I'm too far back.  It wasn't really my day.  It wasn't my day with the putter either.  I hit some good putts.  A lot rolled by the edge.  A couple lipped out.  Yeah.  It was a bit frustrating.   
But the good news is I was swinging it really good.  And if I can swing it like that tomorrow and get a bit of momentum going, I feel like there's a good score out there for me, I really do.  I think there's something mid to low 60s.   
 Q.  Do you have to fire every pin tomorrow, do you think?  
ADAM SCOTT: I don't think we'll be able to because I have a feeling the greens are going to be the firmest we've seen them tomorrow.  I'd be shocked if they don't.  I think they should firm them up and see who's really got this thing under control.  But that will just -- most of the greens, the pins are within a few yards of each other every day.  So it's the same kind of strategy.   
But if they can firm them up, then we'll see if I can run the tables.  You never know.  I'm in that nice position where I'm not even in the discussion.  So I go and play the front nine really good with zero cushion, see what happens.   
 Q.  Would you say the greens today are much firmer than yesterday, even?  
ADAM SCOTT: Marginal.  I mean, not a lot.   
 Q.  Would you kick yourself if you look at what everyone else is doing 1 to 7, and not yours in comparison?  
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, I haven't got off to a great, great start at all.   
 Q.  That's what you said yesterday.  
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah.  It's got to happen.  Tomorrow you can get the momentum going, 3-under, but I just -- I just haven't taken advantage of any of my good play, and it's easy to bogey No. 2.  And things just weren't going my way today.   
Overall there's really solid stuff all throughout.  I just need to have my day out tomorrow, like someone will.  Someone will have a day out tomorrow and win this thing.   
 Q.  Does anyone ever deserve a day out in golf?  Does it feel like you sort of do here?  
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, no, I don't -- I don't think so.  It's just you can only make that happen.  And when it's your time to have that, you know, it's like Johnny Miller shot that 63 to win.  I don't think he woke up believing he was just going to roll around in 63, but these things can just happen.   
I mean, everyone plays at such a high level, when you get the right breaks for one day, you see guys breaking major records all the time (indiscernible) shot 62 the other year, that's never happened, Brooks at the PGA for a couple of days.  I feel like it's possible around here to get it around in 8.  Things have to go your way.   
But I'm not -- honestly, I don't even know that I'm going to have to shoot 8-under so far to win tomorrow.  But 8-under total might win this total.  You never know.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT