STANFORD ST. JUDE CHAMPIONSHIP
June 8, 2007
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ADAM SCOTT:  Nice to be leading now or at the end of the day or whenever this round finishes.  Conditions are perfect.  If it stays like this, birdies to be had out there.   
  
  Q.  How disappointing is it that you mustered through 17 holes of some tough conditions and knew these guys are teeing it up in perfect conditions?   
 ADAM SCOTT:  It's golf, isn't it?  I've had plenty on my way, too.  You've got to take advantage of what you get and they've got a good chance to make a move on the leaderboard right now.   
  
  Q.  One thing you know, you just have to wait now and see what time you end up playing tomorrow because it's going to be tough to finish up tonight.   
 ADAM SCOTT:  We probably won't know that until tomorrow morning at some time.  Take it easy for awhile and come out and try to get focused for tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  What were your thoughts on the round again?   
 ADAM SCOTT:  I'm very pleased.  Everything was pretty solid.  Just like to keep my rhythm over the weekend.  I think I'll have another chance.   
  
  Q.  What did you do over the 3-hour delay?  I know you weren't happy on 18.  You had two holes left and had to sit through a two, three hour delay.  What do you do to keep yourself ready?   
 ADAM SCOTT:  Nothing.  I sat in the player's lounge and talked a lot of junk with the other guys.   
  
  Q.  How difficult is it sitting through a day where you had 2 holes to play like you did?  It's not something you guys want to do get yourself ready to go and have it shut down.   
 ADAM SCOTT:  No.  No.  I was playing quite nicely at the time.  It's never ideal but something you have to get used to, because we seem to do it a lot on Tour, and you just have to learn to relax and take it for what it is and try to come out with a fresh mind.   
  
  Q.  What do you do now on the weekend?  Obviously, you've done well on Thursday and Friday.  This is where you make your move.   
 ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, like I said, I hope I can keep the rhythm in my swing, make it a little easier for me to create some opportunities and then it's all down to the putting.  The pins so far have been quite tricky, on severe areas of the green.  If they keep it up for the weekend, going to have to be careful.   
  
  Q.  Thank you, Adam.  Good luck to you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT