THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY MORGAN STANLEY
June 1, 2007
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  Where did you find most of the hay that you were making out there? 
 ADAM SCOTT:  What's that? 

 Q.  How did you get so low today?  What was the key? 
 ADAM SCOTT:  I hit it to about ten feet a lot today, and teeing off early in the morning, the greens were so perfect, hardly a spike mark, and I just got the putter rolling.  I had that good speed from about ten feet, so I kept hitting a lot of good shots in there and giving myself a lot of chances. 

 Q.  Not much of a roller coaster ride, just kind of a steady climb the whole way, fed off of that, got some heat going? 
 ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, I got it going.  I kind of enjoy that.  It doesn't happen too often, so you've got to go when you're going to go. 
 You know, after 12 I got thinking a little bit and hit a great shot into 13, and unfortunately missed that one.  I kind of calmed myself down and got back into worrying about making a shot at a time.  Then when I hit it close on 15 I started thinking again about maybe breaking 60, and then I hit a bad putt there, so that'll teach me. 

 Q.  59 is the number you're thinking of, but what's this about the course record?  Were you thinking about that at all? 
 ADAM SCOTT:  I didn't know what it was, but I figured 59 was probably going to be it if I got there (laughter). 
 You know, in the end I was happy to birdie 17 just to get that one back that I dropped at 16. 

 Q.  On 16 it looked like you were going dead at the flag.  That was pretty aggressive play. 
 ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, I mean, I thought I had the right club.  I probably didn't hit it perfect.  You know, at that point there's no reason to shy away from it.  I mean, you don't stand on the 16th tee 10-under too often, so I figured I'd have a go. 

 Q.  What's your low round, and do you feel as locked in as you ever have in a round? 
 ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, I've shot 62 a few times but never lower.  Today my ball-striking and distance control and everything was pretty much spot-on with the exception of 16 tee shot.  That was a little ordinary. 
 But probably the best ball-striking round that I can remember. 

 Q.  Did you surprise yourself at all today? 
 ADAM SCOTT:  You know, not really.  I've been playing well.  I played well yesterday and probably shot the highest score I could, and I've been hitting a lot of good shots at tournaments recently and really not getting much out of my golf, which has been frustrating. 
 My caddie and I kind of had a bit of a heart-to-heart last night about how we can do better, so that obviously worked today. 

 Q.  So even guys as talented as you can get thinking about other than -- it seems like you'd be in such a zone.  Describe what that's like to try to stay within that zone? 
 ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, it's not easy.  There's a lot going on.  You know, you have to block everything out if you can, and when people are yelling at you, 59, course record (laughter), it's hard not to hear it. 
 But 15 was disappointing that I didn't make that.  That would have been exciting for me, as well, to try and birdie two of the last three.  It just kind of happens.  I mean, there's no real way to explain it.  You just have this rhythm in your body and you do everything right. 

 Q.  What is it about this course that you and several of your countrymen have had so much success, not just this year but in years past, as well? 
 ADAM SCOTT:  Well, I can only speak for myself, but it sets up very well for me.  A lot of shots fit my eye.  I love these greens.  They're some of the best greens we'll putt on all year.  They're so smooth. 
 So when you get rolling, you can make everything. 

 Q.  What do you think it is about the Australian players as a whole that you guys have had such a great year?  What is it about it that you all have seemed to flourish and this tournament is a prime example of that? 
 ADAM SCOTT:  Well, yeah, Australian golf is very deep, talent-wise, right now.  It's been well-reported that we think it's a carry-on effect of Greg Norman's influence on the game of golf in Australia.  You know, he really made the game popular down there, and there were enough of us that took it seriously to get to this level.  So I think you're seeing a wave of players that was inspired by Greg Norman. 

 Q.  Do you know what the record is now? 
 ADAM SCOTT:  61. 

 Q.  But second place? 
 ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, I'll go for it tomorrow. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT