THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 2, 2019
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ADAM SCOTT: A little bit, I guess, yeah, I mean, the last couple, anyway, where I played well.  It's a little tough to beat Patrick today, but I was only a couple off in the end, and the putts on the last two holes were very close.
There's not much in it, really, even though he played a round worthy of being the champion.  I didn't play particularly well the first ten holes or so today.  I just didn't quite feel as comfortable out there.  The wind was in a slightly different direction.  Where I stood up and aimed some holes all week, you had to aim in a different spot today.  I missed a couple of extra fairways, and I didn't get to hit the greens.  But there was lots of good stuff out there.  I played very well.  Especially coming in.  I was happy with that.
Q. You probably feel pretty good about your play?
ADAM SCOTT: It's tough on the PGA TOUR.  20-under, you don't think about winning.  I'm very happy with where things are at.  It's just going to make me hungrier for two weeks' time now, and it's a good time to be playing well.
Q. I think plus 12 strokes on approach this week (inaudible) that's got to be good for going to a place that's going to have a premium (inaudible)?
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, sure.  That is good.  But I'm more satisfied with my short game, to be honest.  I feel like although I was plus 12, I thought my short game was really good when I needed it this week.  And I'm -- I can't just rely on hitting every fairway and green.  It's a very different setup at Pebble than here, much smaller targets, and I'm going to try to rely on every part of my game to be good there, and I feel it is good.
I'm looking forward to getting there.  Maybe it's a good thing I didn't win this week and I'm going to be a little more focused over the next week, ten days, before we start Pebble and want it a little more.  I don't know if that's true.  I want it pretty bad.  (Laughter.)
Q. Before you made those birdies in a row on the back, had you looked up and thought, I need to put my foot down?  Was that a reaction?  Are you proud of how you did?
ADAM SCOTT: I can't remember exactly how it went down.  But I think I looked at the board on maybe 11, and I saw Patrick was in very good shape.  And I looked again on 14, and he must have birdied maybe two more holes in those three.
Q. 14 and 15.
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah.  So, yeah, I said to John, I kind of need a finish like we had in San Diego, I birdied the last four, and we got going there for a minute.  I don't know, I mean, I hit a great putt on 17.  I can't explain.  It looked like it was going to go in, and it just rolled around the top edge.
Q. What's the level of disappointment when you were in the mix and didn't get the win, but there was also not much you could have done (inaudible) at Muirfield Village?
ADAM SCOTT: It's one of those things, it's disappointing not to win, for sure.  I really played good golf this week, and it just wasn't good enough.  So I've just got to be a little bit better.  And I think if I can somehow find that over the next ten days, you know, I've got a sense of how good it needs to be to hold up down the stretch at a major, especially there.  You're going to have to hit some golf shots, I think, coming down that back nine there.  So if I can do just a little bit better, I feel like I'll be right there.
Q. You don't have to shoot 17-under?
ADAM SCOTT: Let's hope not.  You never know, they might have cut the rough down (laughter).
Q. That's a good time to be playing well.  You looked so relaxed swinging, like it's easy almost.  And you've got another big tournament coming up, so it's a good time?
ADAM SCOTT: I feel good.  For sure, everything I've been doing is moving in the right direction.  So you've got to take advantage of those little moments in a year or in your career because it doesn't always come easy.
And I guess -- I mentioned it last night, at least I'm walking out onto the golf course like with a sense of calm and confidence that I know I'm going to be able to deal with the golf course and myself out there.  I'm not walking out there not knowing what's going to happen.  So that's a nice way to be.  Someone's playing really good every week, so hopefully it's me next time.
Q. Are you feeling the crunch of this condensed schedule at all?
ADAM SCOTT: I've paced myself pretty well.  I played a little bit early in the year and tried to get going, and I kind of did it with a good finish at Torrey, and that allowed me to have a couple of weeks here and there since THE PLAYERS.
And then I've got a big break coming after the U.S. Open.  I'm not playing in between the Opens.  So hopefully that break will then get me right through because it's pretty hectic from The Open through the end of the FedExCup.
Q. This next week what are you doing?
ADAM SCOTT: I'm going to Pebble, actually.  I'll be there on Tuesday.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT