TARGET WORLD CHALLENGE
December 13, 2006
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, overall 2006 was I think a pretty  successful year for me. It was a lot of  good golf I played, and it was important to me to finish the year off with a  win there in Atlanta. I  think I played well enough to win some events but didn't get it done, so it was  good to get across the line there. 
 You know, it's a nice way for me to  start next year at Mercedes and hopefully in some good form. 

 Q.  How much closer are you to winning a major after this year? 
 ADAM SCOTT: Well, I don't know, it's kind of hard to  answer that question. I feel like I'm a  good enough player to win a major if I'm on my game that week. I really feel in the past it's been a case of  I've not played well at majors. 
 The Open last year and the PGA were  really the first two weeks I played nicely at a major. You know, that's a positive thing at least  because that's part of the battle is trying to get your game in good shape for  them. But I think I'm playing good  enough that I can win a major if I'm in position. 
 Obviously it's about closing the  deal. When that happens it's kind of  unpredictable. But I feel my game is at  a point where I can win a major. 

 Q.  It's kind of a time of the year where people are testing equipment. Are you playing with anything, playing around  with anything? 
 ADAM SCOTT: Titleist has a new driver and new golf ball  coming, so I'm using the new golf ball this week for the first time, and the  driver is going to remain testing for a little while longer yet.

 Q.  What's the difference?
 ADAM SCOTT: There are quite of lot of differences in the  driver. Really it's based around the  driver I'm using now, other than I think they played around with the moment of  inertia. 
 So apparently I'm going to hit it  straighter, which is a good thing. But I  drove it so well this year, it's hard to just put my driver down and pick up a  new one and go right out with it.

 Q.  What do you have now?
 ADAM SCOTT: I have the Titleist 905R, and I started using  it in Hawaii at the start of this year. 

 Q.  And what about the ball?
 ADAM SCOTT: The ball is the same name but I believe it's  got a different cover, and I believe that's the only difference with the  ball. They don't really tell me that  kind of stuff. They just ask if I like  it or not. 

 Q.  Getting back to the finishes at the PGA and the Open, in terms of did  you find something do you think that maybe you were not doing that allowed you  to play better at those two events than you had previously, or is it --
 ADAM SCOTT: I mean, I actually played better at all the  majors this year. I didn't finish great  at The Masters or the U.S. Open, although the U.S. Open I had 3-over my last  three to finish 20th or something. I was  going quite well. 
 I think just believing in myself a  little more was really all it was, staying aggressive and playing golf how I  normally play golf. For some reason I  kind of tightened up a little and played too sensitive in majors I thought, and  that led to poor results, whereas this year I treated it just as any other  tournament and I went out and played and tried to hit the shots that I saw and  stayed aggressive and tried to make birdies. 
 Even though the winning scores  aren't low, you're still going to have to make birdies to win. 

 Q.  The FedEx Cup, is that going to alter the way you play your  schedule? Will you play less at the  start of the year gearing towards the end of the year, or have you thought  about that?
 ADAM SCOTT: The schedule is a bit different. I think I'll probably play a little less at  the start. There's a lot of events to  play in the last two months of the FedEx Cup, so I'm probably going to look quiet  at the start and come home stronger.

 Q.  You were talking a little bit about the majors and feeling what it's  like to maybe possibly be in contention.  What is it that last four holes on the last day -- what kind of  attributes does it take for a golfer to either shrug off the pressure or  overcome the pressure, and are those kind of situations that can define  careers?
 ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, absolutely. I think it's mostly a mental test at that  point with four holes to go in a major. If  you can just compose yourself and keep yourself under control, then you've got  a big advantage because I think most everyone would be feeling the pressure at  that point. 
 You know, it's just really up to you  how you can deal with it and how you respond to it and how you play. Some guys play their best when they feel most  nervous. Even though they feel nervous,  they know how to control their emotions and get the job done, and it's  definitely career-defining. 
 The last four holes, I mean, I hate  to bring it up, but you look at a guy like Greg Norman or Colin Montgomerie,  and they could be multiple, multiple major winners, and they just weren't for  whatever reason. Some were bad breaks  and some were bad shots, but it's definitely career-defining, a major. 

 Q.  Is that something you're born with or something that you can learn?
 ADAM SCOTT: I think it's a bit of both. I think you can be born with it, which is a  nice gift to have, but I think you've got to work on it and learn about  yourself. You can only figure it out  once you're in that position, and the more you're in that position, the easier  it gets, I believe. 

 Q.  You had a lot of success early in your career. Was that overwhelming at all, and how much  did it raise your expectations?
 ADAM SCOTT: Early in my career as in like when? 

 Q.  I believe your first win was at 23 and then the past couple years  obviously you've done well. Has this  been -- how much did it raise your expectations?
 ADAM SCOTT: Well, it didn't really raise them any. When I won in Boston, that was a great breakthrough win  for me to get on the PGA TOUR, but I had won three or four tournaments in Europe previous to that, so I believed  that I was a winner out here. It was  just a matter of time for me to get my game right to come to America and play over here. 
 It didn't really raise my  expectations. Maybe after winning THE  PLAYERS in '04, I thought this could be a really great point to keep going and  go win majors right away, but it didn't happen like that. I try and stay really realistic, have goals  and expectations so I don't become disappointed. Yeah, maybe I was a little disappointed at  the end of 2004 to look back after playing so well to win THE PLAYERS to not  play that well in the majors. 

 Q.  How do you keep yourself hungry? Is  it easy to get complacent playing on the PGA TOUR with the rewards that are  there for finishing in the top 10, top 15?  Do you have to do something to keep yourself --
 ADAM SCOTT: I think it depends on the person, but winning  is I think the most important thing to me.  This year I proved to myself that it was, even though I had a great year  and played really consistent, I pushed myself hard the last three, four months  of the season to get a win because I wouldn't have been happy finishing Top 10  on the Money List and having 11 Top 10s and not winning. I mean, that's not a successful year as far  as I'm concerned. 
 A Top 10-ranked player in the world  should be winning golf tournaments, so I was really happy to win in Atlanta. 
 But you've got to keep pushing  yourself, and that was the attitude I had, keep staying intense and keep  pushing yourself, don't be happy with finishing second and playing well week  in, week out. You've got to win, and  that's what we're all out here to do, I think. 

 Q.  Who do you consider to be the best player in the world without a major  championship to his name?
 ADAM SCOTT: Without a major? Probably Sergio, I think. I say that because I think he's had some good  chances in majors. You know, he could have  had one or two or three maybe by now, but he hasn't. You know, and he may not have played that  well this year, but I'm kind of overlooking that in saying I think he's  probably the best player without a major.

 Q.  Just curious, since you guys were born in the same year and whatnot,  when did you first meet Sergio and what kind of history, if any, did you guys  have through the amateur ranks, both having turned pro so early?
 ADAM SCOTT: I never actually met him as an amateur. Well, I was an amateur when I met him in Australia in a tournament, probably the year  2000, I think, and he was already a pro.  I played a practice round with him down there. Yeah, we had no real history of amateur or  junior. 
 I think it was all set up by the  management company, IMG. They ran the  tournament and obviously managed Sergio, so they set it up, which was  good. So yeah, those seven years have  gone by pretty quick actually. 

 Q.  Maybe it's some sort of race, so, you know, the first guy to win a major  is going to be the biggest young star. Do  you see it that way at all?
 ADAM SCOTT: Well, it could be seen that way, sure. I think we both feel like we should be  winning majors, absolutely. I don't  think we're viewing it as a race to see who wins the first one because I hope  to win more than one. Getting one is  great, but I'm hoping to win more than one. 
 Yeah, he's definitely got a better  record in majors than me, but I think it's just taken me a little bit more time  to get comfortable in that position.

 Q.  I was just talking to Geoff Ogilvy about the great year for Australians,  you winning and he winning and going back there. He said he's still an Australian football fan  but he's learned that if you don't talk American football in the fall here,  there's nothing to say. As a guy who  briefly went to school here, and I just wonder what your response is to that. 
 ADAM SCOTT: Well, you know, our football team wasn't very  inspirational. I don't know that we won  a game while I was there. I haven't  learnt American football that good, but I certainly am following it a little  bit more now. I know what's going  on. I know what's happening in the  football world. 
 Yeah, UNLV, going there didn't help  me much. I should have gone to Florida or somewhere else.

 Q.  Talking about the majors a little bit, except for Tiger, nobody since  Larry Mize has won Augusta in their 20s. Any reason for that? Any theories on that? 
 ADAM SCOTT: Interesting.  Yeah, I think it's a place that experience counts a lot for. I think just knowing the place backwards is  important, especially the greens and pitching around the greens. You might find little spots that are just  safe havens around the green. If you get  in trouble you can get over there and have a good chance of getting it  up-and-down. I guess it could be the  course is a little intimidating, I guess, and when you're not that experienced  there it can catch up with you. 
 You know, I think the expectations  on younger guys certainly skyrocketed after Tiger came out and performed as  well as he did, and I think also when Sergio was the next kind of young guy to  come out and perform well. I mean, he  performed fantastically his first year as a pro. So all expectations went up on the younger  players and everyone kind of thought, well, these 20-year-olds are going to  take over the TOUR. 
 I think the game catches up with  everyone and experience counts for a lot more than most people think, I  believe. 

 Q.  Tiger was in here yesterday talking about the golf swing is kind of a  continuing work in progress. Do you ever  foresee yourself going through the kind of major overhaul on your golf swing  that he did within the last couple years? 
 ADAM SCOTT: I hope not.  I mean, that sounds like hard work (laughter). That sounds like hard work to me. It is -- I agree, it evolves. My swing is different now than it was five  years ago and it was different when I was 15.  The swing just kind of evolves. 
 I guess as your body changes and you  get older, you can't go at it as hard, and at some point you've got to make a  few adjustments. I really -- I don't  know, I kind of see my swing being along the same lines hopefully. Partly you've got to learn it and then it  just becomes instinct.

 Q.  As we all know it's been a great year on the PGA TOUR for Australian  golf with you winning the TOUR Championship, Geoff winning the U.S. Open and a WGC event. Do you feel there's increased expectation by  fans Down Under for you guys to kick on even more in 2007?
 ADAM SCOTT: It's tough to say. I mean, I've been at home for the last month  and played two events down there but didn't really get that feeling of  expectation from them. I think probably  from the players' point of view there's expectation that we're going to have  another year like that and someone is going to win another major and do  well. We've got some young guys coming  off the Nationwide Tour that are great players and I expect them -- one of them  to have a real impact here next year.
 I think there's probably more  expectation over this side of the pond rather than in Australia.  I mean, it's kind of a little far away down there.

 Q.  (Inaudible.)
 ADAM SCOTT: I think so.  I think this year especially it's been reported a lot on the dominance  of Australia, the fact that there are 25 of us out here  every week, which is a considerable amount, and I don't think that really gets  reported that much in Australia.  I think us winning does get reported quite a lot down there, but  expectations, well, yeah, maybe there are some expectations, but I think  there's more expectation over here than back home. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT