THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 3, 2006
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  One of the leaders in the clubhouse, Adam Scott.  Thanks for joining us.  Nice round today, 67.  Maybe some opening comments on a couple of good days for you.
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, it's been two good days for me.  Turned it around a little bit since last week, which was good.  Driving the ball well, which I think is really a key around here.  It's been pretty stress free golf so far for me, which is nice.
Q.  You've had a bunch of seconds and a bunch of thirds.  In your mind, has it been a good year, a bad year, or just the most frustrating year of your career?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, a little disappointing.  You know, I've played probably the best I ever have over the period of a year but have nothing much to show for it other than a win in Singapore.  I was looking for a little bit more than that, really.

This weekend is a good chance for me to get something out of my good play over the year.
Q.  Do you like the classic type courses, Nissan and this place?  And of course I don't know what happened last week, that's sort of a classic type course.
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, I mean, Nissan and here and last week in Tampa are in the Top 5 courses on Tour, probably.  I love these courses.  This one is a beauty.  It just kind of shows you you don't need to grow eight inch rough to make it tough.
Q.  What makes this tough then?
ADAM SCOTT:  The rough is kind of unpredictable because you can actually move it out of it.  But you could get a flier, it might come out dead, and that's when you get into trouble.

In previous years the greens have been a little bit firmer, and I think that's made it even tougher.  They're pretty receptive at the moment.

But just a classic, good designed golf course.
Q.  How many lip outs do you recall having today?
ADAM SCOTT:  I can think of three in the last four.  I had a couple other ones.  Yeah, three or four.
Q.  I mean, is it accurate to say that you feel like it could have been several shots better the way you played?
ADAM SCOTT:  Oh, no, I don't think seven.
Q.  Several?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, could have been.  On a good day it could have been four shots better probably.  I gave myself a lot of opportunities today.
Q.  Is that encouraging or frustrating?
ADAM SCOTT:  No, it's good.  It's a good sign.  I think the important thing for me to do is keep driving it well and drive it in the fairway like I have been.  That's how you get opportunities around this course.  If you're in the rough, then it's very difficult to get it close to the hole.
Q.  The ShotLink system had you missing four fairways, but it didn't look like you missed by much.  Did you hit first cuts there?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, they were first cuts.
Q.  All of them, 8, 9?
ADAM SCOTT:  8, 9, 17, yes, all of them first cuts.
Q.  So you never had to gouge anything out?
ADAM SCOTT:  No.
Q.  That's a good day.
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, it was.  I drove the ball well today.
Q.  How different did it play today from yesterday with the wind?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, it wasn't quite as tricky as yesterday.  But the breeze that was there was moving around a lot.  I felt like it was hard to pick whether it was into the wind or downwind.  And a lot of the times, especially on the back nine, you're playing down into the green.

It can make a big difference if you get it wrong, whether it's into or with you.  You know, that caught me out a little bit on the 12th today.  I had a problem there yesterday; I went over.  I came up short today.

It's kind of hard to guess that one because of the pins.  You don't really feel it too much on that fairway.
Q.  If you were to win this week, is there a chance they'll say you can't go to Kapalua because Tiger wasn't in the field?
ADAM SCOTT:  Probably.  I saw Gary this week, and if I win he assured me I can go to Kapalua.
Q.  Earlier in your career, all of two, three years ago, you were known to go like this (indicating up and down) and then fall off for a while, and then weeks would pass and you weren't up on the leaderboard very often.  Is that a positive sign for you that you've been in contention so much more this year and a big step forward?  Is there anything you attribute that to, putting, whatever?
ADAM SCOTT:  Well, that's where I wanted to take my game, to be more consistent.  I've been saying that for three, four years.  It just takes time.  I think this year I've driven the ball better than any other year in the past.

And when you're playing out of the fairway a lot more, it gives you a lot more opportunity because it seems like every Tour stop is growing the rough at a little bit longer year after year.

So I've given myself a lot of opportunities.  I think I've putted pretty decent this year.  I haven't really been hot or cold, I've just been solid.

I think all areas of my game have improved.  My short game has improved a lot over the last year and a half, and that certainly makes a big difference.
Q.  Do you feel like you're really ready to bust out and start collecting scalps out here?  Do you know what that means, collecting scalps?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah.  I had a chance to do that this year, and I think that's what I learned from.  I said it a few weeks ago in London.  You look at how Tiger closes out the deal when he's in contention, and that is something that I need to look at and figure out how I can do that, because I had two or three really good chances this year to do that and I didn't get it done.

That was disappointing, but that's something a young player needs to learn, too.  I think I've been pretty fortunate in years past that when I was in contention I won.  Sometimes it's not that easy.
Q.  You look at this board, and it seems like you've got six or eight guys who are playing nicely and the rest that are not.  Does this course tend to weed out good golf, not so good golf?  Or, B, is it a case where end of the year, free money so to speak, that if you don't got it, what the hell, you don't have it this week?
ADAM SCOTT:  No, I think it's a course where the guys who are playing good are only 4 under.  It's pretty tough out there for two days.  So if you're struggling you're going to shoot some numbers.  That's what happens at majors, too:  The guys who are playing good post respectable numbers, and the guys who aren't really, it's embarrassing.

I've been in that position where you're putting 8s on your score card, and that's no fun.

I think it is just a great golf course, a tough setup, and if you're playing bad, you're going to struggle.
Q.  You can't disguise bad play out here?
ADAM SCOTT:  I don't think so, not for four days.  For a day, yeah, you can.  But if you play bad for four days, I don't think you can get by.
Q.  What do you have the rest of the year?
ADAM SCOTT:  I'm playing the Australian Open, Australian PGA, and the Target tournament in LA.
Q.  I'd be curious on if you've given any thought to Florida next year.  You brought up Tampa earlier and you like the course.  There was some talk about what kind of field Tampa would get based on where it's situated.  I was thinking it might be okay for the guys who have played it and liked it who might go back there.  Do you have any thoughts on that?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, I think it will be a good date, and I think the guys who have played it and liked it will go back.  It's kind of a bad date for me, unfortunately, because I think I'm going to Thailand for the Johnny Walker tournament right after the Match Play, and I can't get back    well, I can get back, but I'm pushing myself a bit to do it, to get back for Tampa.

Right now I'm not sure if I'm going to play, which is disappointing for me, because other than Sawgrass that's my favorite event in Florida.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  If we could touch on your four birdies and one bogey today.  First birdie came on 3, par 4.
ADAM SCOTT:  It was a driver, pitching wedge, five feet.

Par 3, 6, 8 iron and made about a 30 footer.

8 was a driver and a pitching wedge to ten feet.

9 was a driver, 3 wood and a chip and a putt from six feet.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Only bogey of the day on 10, par 4.
ADAM SCOTT:  Hit a driver, 6 iron and I buried it in the short trap of the green and only managed to get it out to 25 feet.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Adam Scott, thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT