PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 20, 2006
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  How do you feel; disappointed?
ADAM SCOTT:  Disappointed bogeying the last couple of holes.  But 67 last day of a major is a good score.  But could have been a couple better, for sure.
Q.  Talk about your round.
ADAM SCOTT:  I started like I did yesterday and managed to keep it going and hit a lot of nice shots and nice putts.  Had a good save early on the fourth.  You know, it was just kind of one of those days where I couldn't keep the round going.
Q.  Talk about the birdies.
ADAM SCOTT:  I birdied the first, I hit a sand wedge to the green, and also birdied the fifth with a 2 putt.  6 I hit it in quite close with a wedge.  7, I hit it close with a wedge also, par 5.

And 9, I hit an 8 iron in there to about ten feet.  So you know, I hit a lot of good shots on the front nine and unfortunately drove it in the rough on 10.  Couldn't get to the green and made par.

But hit it on the 14th in two and made birdie, two putts.  And then birdied 15 and thought if I could maybe sneak a couple more in, you never know and might be good enough.  But hit too much club on 16 and made a bogey.
Q.  Were you looking for at seeing what Tiger was doing?
ADAM SCOTT:  I saw him way out there.  I was kind of figuring, birdie every hole coming in from 14 and maybe post a number.  So you know, not being able to do that, didn't really need to bogey.
Q.  Is it discouraging to play as well as you played on the front especially, and then look up and see you're really not gaining any ground?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yes and no.  I mean, I really didn't think I had a chance at the start of the day, seven back and the course playing soft.  It's going to take 10 under or something to even be a threat.  Looks like it will be.  Tiger is playing great and taking van of the soft conditions.
Q.  Is that the most frustrating thing for the field as a whole to know that when you need to shoot a low number, and Tiger is probably the most likely guy to shoot that low number?
ADAM SCOTT:  He's a great front runner.  History proves that.  Every credit to him.  You know, when you're leading heading into the last round, pretty hard to stop, and he proved it today.



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT