BARCLAYS CLASSIC
June 10, 2006
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Is it as tough as it looks out there?
ADAM SCOTT:  It was very difficult out there, heavy wind and a lot of blind shots and elevated shots to greens that you have to get up in the air.  It is pretty tough out there.  You've got to really hit good solid shots to hold the line.
Q.  How do you like your chances tomorrow?
ADAM SCOTT:  I have to say, I'm going to have to make some short putts tomorrow.  I missed a lot today, five or six within say five feet.  I need to make them tomorrow to be around for the end.  You know, it was a nice time to roll one in because I felt like I played really good and just getting a little extra out of the round at the end made me feel good, but then messed up the last hole a little bit and made par.

All in all, I'm pretty happy with where I'm at.  I just wanted to be in this position starting the week.
Q.  This is good preparation for the Open, these conditions today?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, I think it is.  I mean, I'm just out of the lead.  The good thing about playing here is you've got to be precise with your shots, no matter what the conditions are.  It certainly played more difficult today.
Q.  Was patience the key today with these conditions?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, it always is when it's tough.  You know, patience    I think 11, which is a good driving hole for me, hit it two yards off the fairway and had to hit a lob wedge about 20 feet down the fairway.  I didn't do too much wrong and really got penalized.  That's how it is in these conditions when the wind is up on a tough course.
Q.  You would have taken 2 under in a heartbeat, wouldn't you?
ADAM SCOTT:  It's a good score.  I would have taken it right from the first tee.
Q.  Describe the wind again today.
ADAM SCOTT:  Well, it was playing pretty hard, gusty, and then amongst the trees it swirls around a little bit.  When it's blowing this strong, it's sometimes a little easier than when it's blowing lightly because you know the strength.
Q.  You expect the disappointment with the putt on the 18th.  You're pretty happy with your round, but does that stick with you more than anything else, your last putt?
ADAM SCOTT:  Not really.  I mean, I'm in good position where I'm at.  I'm going to have a couple back maybe.  That's a pretty good spot to be going into tomorrow.  The leaders are going to have to deal with a lot more than I am.
Q.  Do you think a win here would put you into the highest echelon of golfers?  You're almost right now?
ADAM SCOTT:  No, I don't think so.  I think winning next week would.  But I'd certainly take a win here tomorrow.
Q.  Not that you can answer for him per se, but Tiger not having competed in the longest stretch of his career, how difficult is that for a player do you think, not having played in competition for that long, or do those rules not really apply with him to some degree?
ADAM SCOTT:  I don't think he's going to struggle too much, I've got a feeling.  He's playing well this year and the end of last year, and I think his game is in good shape.  He knows very well what he's doing.
Q.  Would it be difficult for you to take that kind of time off and not having that edge of competition and jumping into a major?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, for most players.  It's a little different story when you've won ten majors, though.
Q.  Does it add something to this week knowing that that's next week, or does it take something away from this week knowing that you're on the cusp of a major?
ADAM SCOTT:  No, I just thought it was a good week to play.  I think I've done all the right things here that I wanted to do going into next week, irrespective of what happens tomorrow.  I'll treat next week like any other week, also.
Q.  You did get a chance to play there this week?
ADAM SCOTT:  I played nine holes this week.
Q.  Did you play enough to get a feel for it?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah.  I mean, it's going to be difficult.  It's typical U.S. Open, long rough and tight fairways.  The secret around Winged Foot is the greens, knowing which way the putts break.
Q.  Was Butch able to give you any opinion on that?
ADAM SCOTT:  Absolutely.  He knows better than probably anyone in the field next week.  I'm going to be working with him pretty hard the next few nights.  From Monday night on I'll be trying to figure it out.
Q.  It seemed like the wind may have slowed down the pace of play today.  What do you do to deal with that?
ADAM SCOTT:  Try not to think about it because it just gets you mad.  I had a great group today with Geoff and Luke.  We're all buddies.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT