PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 17, 2019
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Were you thinking a 62?
ADAM SCOTT: I thought, whether it was low or possible leaving the 15th green, you know, 16, 17, 18 today are actually very gettable with the tee up on 17.  I mean, it was a fleeting thought.  Not happening at the end of the day, and in the end I was very happy to get it up-and-down for 64 on the last.  Look, overall, you shoot 64 in a major, you've had a great day and I did today.  It was a great start, and managed to keep it going for a lot of the day.
Yeah, there's lots of great stuff, which I had to do, and it looks like I'm going to have to do lots of great stuff over the weekend.  But whether -- whether I'm six back, seven back, you know, equal lead, to win a major, you're going to have to do some great stuff over the weekend.  For me, I think, and everyone else, if you can get it in the fairway a couple more times over the weekend, you'll limit the chance of mistakes and you'll probably create some opportunities, and that could be a big strokes difference on a guy who doesn't.
Q. Can you attack this place, even though it's really tough --
ADAM SCOTT: Honestly, I think it's just all down to hitting the fairway.  I mean, you can kind of attack it from the fairway, and the tees have been up.  It will be interesting to see if the tees go back.  There won't be a lot of attacking when they drop the tees back.  It will be just, can you hit the green, to be honest with you.  Even though it's rained, they are not that soft and I think if there's no more rain, it could get a little firmer.
So that's going to require some really great golf and when you're behind, I just can't afford to make many errors.  You can accept a bogey but probably not more than one a day the next couple days.
Q. Playing as well as you have been playing, but seeing what Brooks is doing, and knowing how good of a frontrunner he is, is that -- how does that play into it at all, knowing that he's playing so well and is in the lead?
ADAM SCOTT: Well, it has to come to an end eventually, that good front-running (laughing).  Let's hope it's not 12 years like Tiger's front-running lasted.
Q. Your putting was the difference --
ADAM SCOTT: I didn't think I put that had poorly yesterday.  I putted from very long-range yesterday and I actually held some good come-back putts.  So I wasn't thinking the putter was much of an issue yesterday.  I didn't hit it very -- particularly close.  Today I came out and they just started rolling in and didn't think much about it and felt very good with it.
I felt good with it, too, yesterday, but the greens were kind of quick yesterday morning and when you're putting up and over, across the greens like I was from long range, it was easy to misjudge the pace.  There's no doubt they slowed down for the afternoon round today.
Q. In your warm up, did you feel something was a little different today?  Did you just have a good feeling?  Are warmups usually indicative about your play?
ADAM SCOTT: They can go both ways.  To be honest, I feel like I've just got my head into a good place this week.  I thought yesterday, I played pretty well.  I was grinding it out and I was 1-under and then, you know, you throw a bad swing on it and you shoot 1-over, and all of a sudden, you feel like it's a completely different feeling on the whole day.
But generally, I feel like my game's in a really great place.  If I can get out of my own head a little bit and just play and swing, I think good results are there.  So that's what I tried to do today.  Just kind of look down my target and give it a good full swing.
Q. Is it hard to imagine Brooks making a mistake?
ADAM SCOTT: No, I think there's doubles left and right out there once you get out of position.  Hey, if the guy can just keep doing that for another two days, then there's not much you can do.  But I think someone, hopefully me, will chip away tomorrow and sneak up in the right direction.  If he didn't have a hot day tomorrow, the gap narrows and there's pressure over whatever lead he might have or might not on Sunday, because, yeah, I know he's won three majors.  I know he seems impenetrable at the moment in this position, but at some point he's got to think about it.
Q. What did you think about -- what was the longest of the birdie putts?
ADAM SCOTT: The second hole was pretty long.  That was 45, 50 feet maybe.  Yeah, it was a long putt.  I did it there yesterday, too, actually.  I holed a long one.  Hit my wedges to 40 feet and make them.  Just a bizarre game sometimes.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT