BOOZ ALLEN CLASSIC
June 12, 2005
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TODD BUDNICK:  We thank the runner up, Adam Scott, defending champion this year, not the way you like to finish, but a first and second in two years here at the tournament.  Not too bad.
ADAM SCOTT:   It's disappointing, but obviously it was a good week, and what I was looking for going to Pinehurst now.  My game feels great.  I'm happy with the stuff I have to achieve with my swing this week, especially over the weekend.  It came down to that one shot that took me out of the tournament today.
Q.  (No microphone.)
ADAM SCOTT:  I had a perfect drive.  It was like a couple of inches in the first cut of rough, and I had 133 to the hole, downhill, downwind, and I hit a smooth sand wedge that flew about 140 yards and missed the bunker, too.  I couldn't predict that happening.  I was trying to get it somewhere, anything inside 20 feet.  I wasn't being greedy going at it.  I was playing safe.
Q.  (No microphone.)
ADAM SCOTT: No, I never thought it would go that far.  I never thought it could go that far, but when it landed, I was thinking, Oh, boy.
Q.  You did hit the bunker, though?
ADAM SCOTT: Yes.  It must have hit really hard.  It was a bit of a bad break, really.  You get the good breaks when you win.
Q.  (No microphone.)
ADAM SCOTT: I had a look, but I was kind of hoping I could have been in there, but it was a very tough bunker shot.
Q.  (No microphone.)
ADAM SCOTT: Definitely, it was a little downhill, flubbed it out of there and let it run down towards the hole.  It was a makable shot.
Q.  How many times did you find yourself in contention with Sergio in the last few holes?  Has this happened very many times before?
ADAM SCOTT: I can't think of one off the top of my head, no.  I think this may have been the first time.
Q.  First of a few, you think?
ADAM SCOTT: Sure.  I'd like to think so, yes.  Hopefully I can get myself back up there a few more times.
Q.  Putting tip, can you tell us what drill exactly?
ADAM SCOTT:  It was    his caddie came over to me, and he was even down about it.  I'm surprised the putting tip came from me, because I've struggled with my putting plenty of times.  I said I like to practice putting times looking at the hole when I practice, just to take my mind off the stroke and think about something else.  It worked for me.  I told him give it try.  I wasn't trying to fix his stroke.  It was to get a different feel.  Maybe I should charge him.
Q.  (No microphone.)
ADAM SCOTT:  It was this week.
Q.  (Giving advice)  Are things a little friendlier out here now?
ADAM SCOTT: It's very friendly.  I think they're just playing it up on TV.  Sergio is a good friend.  I don't want to see him struggle.  I would rather us play our best and battling it out to see who's better.  That's why we're out here.  Hopefully he keeps putting good.  Maybe I can get more commission off him.
Q.  18, where did the ball land; could you tell?
ADAM SCOTT: I couldn't tell.  It was right at the hole. It actually pitched about three feet just to the side of the hole.  I didn't want to risk too much and hit it in the water or something, but I had to give it a shot.  It was disappointing not to knock the putt in.   It was a good week.  I had a good run at it today.  It looked for a minute like Sergio might run away with it, but it was a tough back nine.  It proved it to him and it proved it to me.
Q.  Sergio said the ghost of Wachovia was flying through his head when he missed the green at the last hole.  Did you think of that down the stretch, that perhaps you could catch him?
ADAM SCOTT: On 15 I didn't actually know what the situation was, but I thought I was right in it.  It made me even more mad to walk on the 17th green and see him way over to the right on 18.  And then I watched him make bogey and there was nothing I could do about it.  I would give anything to have that shot back into 17.  That's just the way the game plays out sometimes.
Q.  (No microphone.)
ADAM SCOTT: That's the breaks you get when you win.  That's winner's luck.  I've had that happen in the past when I've won, got good breaks.  Then it's your day.
Q.  After all week at Congressional, does it set you up for Pinehurst?
ADAM SCOTT: I think this course, being very difficult like it is, is a great mental preparation for Pinehurst.  You have to have four solid days out here in the heat concentrating to get the job done.  That's what we're going to be looking at next week, is four tough days.  It's going to test you mentally.  As soon as you make a mistake out here, you're working, you're scrambling.  And I'm sure it's going to be the same down there.
TODD BUDNICK:  Let's go through your birdied.  The par 5, No. 6.
ADAM SCOTT:  Driver, 6 iron, two putts.
TODD BUDNICK:  Nine?
ADAM SCOTT:   Driver, 6 iron, lob wedge, two feet.
TODD BUDNICK:  11?
ADAM SCOTT: 3 iron, pitching wedge, 15 feet.

15, driver, 3 wood, and a pitch to eight feet.
Q.  You weren't here in '97 when they finished this tournament with the par 3.  How did you react seeing it for the first time?  If the water is always in the back of your mind when you're playing the last two holes, does it make it a lot tougher?
ADAM SCOTT: Yes, it's a tough finish out there.  17, especially, and 18, obviously, with the pin where it is today, I guess that's the Sunday pin.  The water is around it.  If you want to make 2 you have to risk hitting it in the water.  It's a tough finish.  It's a great finish.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT