U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2005
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
Adam, seemed like you only hit four fairways, but you always had some sort of look?
 ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, I did pretty well out of the rough today, but if you look at my round, I had a good round, but my putting form, I couldn't have done much worse, really.  I missed a lot of putts on the back nine.  I missed a lot of greens.  I kind of think it's important to get it down there if you're going to miss the fairway.  The fairways are so narrow you're going to miss your share, even with a good drive.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 ADAM SCOTT:  It was fun until the back nine.  I don't know what it was.  I couldn't get the speed and the line together.  When I got in a bit close, I couldn't get them in the hole.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 ADAM SCOTT:  No, not really.  I mean it's by far my best round at U.S. Open.  And I played    I thought I played pretty good today.  I'd like to play another three rounds just like today, if I made some putts, I'd like my chances.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 ADAM SCOTT:  No, not really.  I mean    no, I mean they're all pretty difficult.  There's no one stand out hole, I think.  But they all have their spots where they become difficult.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, I mean you can definitely play your way out of a tournament today with a bad round.  And I wanted to keep myself going after a good start, I didn't want to just slide away to a few over.  I wanted to try to stay under par, but just a tough finish out there.  The last four holes are difficult, and I bogeyed two of them, unfortunately.  But like I said, I'd like to play like that again.
Q.  [] what do you feel like you should have shot?
 ADAM SCOTT:  Well, I mean maybe one or two better.  I had some putts that were looking pretty good, but didn't go.
Q.  Were the greens obviously    you didn't play this morning, so you don't know how they were, but were they getting crusty?
 ADAM SCOTT:  No.  If anything, I felt I was slower later in the day, for me, anyway.  I missed a lot of putts short at the end of the day, going low over the hole, whereas the first couple of holes I thought the ball was rolling out quite nice, because I believe they're watering them during play or syringing them so maybe that's why.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 ADAM SCOTT:  I think in some holes, yeah, it's valuable to hit driver and just get it up, even if it's in the rough.  There are other holes where you've just got to try to get it in the fairway no matter what, if you're going to have a shot at getting it on the green.  A couple of holes I hit driver, where in the practice rounds I was looking at 3 woods or 2 irons.  But I decided to play driver.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
ADAM SCOTT:  No.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, I didn't miss them by that much.  I hit one poor drive out there today on 5 that was kind of a bit of a hooky thing.  But the rest were pretty decent, I've just got to be precise.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 ADAM SCOTT:  I didn't have a problem with the rough today.  I played pretty well out of the rough.
Q.  Could you go through your birdies and bogeys?
 ADAM SCOTT:  No. 1, birdie.  I hit 2 iron and pitching wedge, 1 putt.  That was 30 feet, maybe.

6 hole, I had a 4 iron, to about 30 feet.

The 9th hole, I had an 8 iron over the back of the green and didn't get up and down.

11, I had a driver, 7 iron to 15 feet.

15, I missed the green with a 6 iron and didn't get it up and down.

18, I hit a driver, 9 iron and didn't get it up and down from short.
Q.  Your lie on 18, was it bad?
 ADAM SCOTT:  It was a pretty bad lie, but I thought I hit a pretty good shot.  And it landed a yard short of where it would have kicked up on the green, instead it jumped right in the thick rough.  That was a pretty bad lie in the rough.
Q.  Pretty exhausting day, the mental    having to keep your head in the game and be patient out there?
 ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, it's a long day, a lot of thinking.  Probably the most I've had to think on a golf course this year, just    even if you hit the fairway you've got to think about your shot in and what you're taking out of play.  You want to take a club that can get you past the middle of the green.  It's hard to do that all day and still play aggressive.  It's a tough day out there.
Q.  Have you changed your approach from the practice rounds, today?  The balls were spinning back.  How much did you have to change how you were going to play?
 ADAM SCOTT:  They still take a good bounce first, they're not just stopping.  They take a bounce and then grab.  But you have to watch it a little bit with the wedge shots, I guess, today, because they can spin back off the greens just as quick as they can go over the greens.  It takes some control and I didn't really want to leave myself in spots where I had to jump on a wedge.  It would be spinning too much.
Q.  Do you think 4 under is indicative of how the course is?
 ADAM SCOTT:  I think that's a very good score, yeah.  I think 4 under is a great score.  It's certainly not unplayable out there.  I think guys are capable of breaking par around here.
Q.  Tiger said he'd take three more even pars, basically?
 ADAM SCOTT:  Oh, yeah, I think that's going to be pretty good at the end of the week.  I think    the rough is going to grow a bit and the greens are going to get harder.  They may get a little quicker, it's going to play harder and it just plays harder on the weekend because of the pressure.  Even par is going to be around the mark, maybe.
Q.  Does that mean you'd take three more?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, I would.
Q.  You'd take one less, I suppose?
ADAM SCOTT:  I'd take one less if Tiger is at even (laughter).


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT