BOOZ ALLEN CLASSIC
June 10, 2005
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  We welcome defending champion Adam Scott who sits at 7 under, 135, through two rounds at the Booz Allen Classic.  Six birdies and two bogeys today.  Nice day out there with a 67.  Talk a little about the round.
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, it was a very consistent round today.  I played a lot better than I did yesterday.  You know, really putting well at the moment, you know, which is keeping everything moving forward.  I'm making some nice length putts and making all the short ones, too.

You know, when your confidence is up with the putter, it allows you to be a little more aggressive with the rest of your game, you know, try to get it happening a little.  You know, six birdies is pretty solid out there.
THE MODERATOR:  You mentioned you're playing much better, yet your stats are pretty similar from yesterday to today.  Driving was the difference.  You hit three more fairways today.  In your mind, the stats say you're the same, what was the difference for you?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, I'm not a big stats guy, you know.  I think they're rubbish (laughter).

You know, it just felt better.  You know, I did hit three more fairways, and that's quite a lot.  But, you know, the swing felt better and it was just a little more consistent and the ball was going where I was looking.  So that's important.

But, like I said, it's really just    you know, I'm putting nicely, and that's really the key for me right now.
THE MODERATOR:  We'll take questions.
Q.  Obligatory stupid question.  Obviously this city, two years in a row, you lit it up around here.  Comfortable in the area?  Time of the year?  The heat?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, I mean, I enjoy coming    enjoyed coming here last year and playing in Avenel.  This year I was excited about playing at Congressional, heard so many good things.  You know, I got to stay downtown there, you know, plenty of stuff to do, nice restaurants, shops, all this stuff.  So it's certainly a good, fun week for me.  You know, I just have a good time here.

Fortunately, I'm playing some good golf, as well.
Q.  You staying in the same place as you did last year?
ADAM SCOTT:  Uh huh.
Q.  Which is where?
THE MODERATOR:  You don't have to say that.
ADAM SCOTT:  Georgetown.  Yeah, Georgetown.
Q.  Did the course play differently for you being a morning round as opposed to yesterday?  Was it at all different?
ADAM SCOTT:  Actually, it wasn't as    it wasn't as hot or muggy this morning.  You know, it was a little better.  It's getting up there now, though.  But the greens are a lot easier to putt on in the morning.  They roll a lot nicer.  You know, the grass is growing throughout the day.  They get a little bumpy in the afternoon.

The course set up a little different today, a lot of front pins.  You know, it was hard to keep the ball under the hole, as well.  But I think the course played, as far as difficulty, about the same.
Q.  Is it still as soft as it was with the rain last night?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, it's still very soft.  Yeah, that's certainly    you know, if it played firm, it would be a real brute.  But the soft greens, you know, are helping us out a lot because you can still get the ball on the green out of the rough.
Q.  Yesterday you opened up with a double bogey on 10.  Today another bogey on 10.  Are you starting to get some bad feelings about that hole?
ADAM SCOTT:  I've hit two of the worst golf shots from the middle of the fairway there two days in a row.  Fortunately today my ball stayed on the bank of the hazard and didn't go in.  I managed to get a bogey out of it, so I was pretty happy with it.
Q.  Talk about the importance of putting your tee shot in the right spot, especially on the holes that are considered "bogey" holes.  I know you didn't birdie 6 today.  But 9 and 15, things like that where you can try to score, what is your approach on holes like that?  Do you go in thinking 'aggressive' on a day like today because everything is good?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, I think 6 and 15, you're looking at getting the ball on the green in two.  So you're obviously looking at birdie.  9 is a little unrealistic for going for the green.  So it's a par 5 and hopefully a wedge out of the fairway and you can get it pretty close.

But I think some of the other par 4s, you know, they're the scoring holes as well.  I think the Front 9 plays a lot easier than the Back 9.  You're looking to make your score on the front, hang on, hopefully add a couple more on the Back 9.  But the Front 9 is where you're going to make your score this week.
Q.  If you look at kind of your sequence of the last few years, you've gone from having some great weeks to having much more consistent week in and week out play.  Is the next step trying to sort of take that to the majors and be a major factor consistently?
ADAM SCOTT:  Absolutely.  I've probably said it for two years.  But if I can play consistently, that's how I'm going to become a better player.

You know, I think gradually I've improved my consistency   this year especially I've been pretty solid.  But, you know, now I've got to do that in the majors as well.  I've got to consistently play four rounds and consistently have a chance to move myself into the tournament.
Q.  Is there any particular reason the majors have been harder for you?
ADAM SCOTT:  You know, I really haven't gone into the majors playing very well.  I know TPC    you know, I won TPC playing great, but then by the next weekend I was playing terrible.  That's part of my game that I've tried to improve, you know, to make sure my swing stays in balance a little more often.  You know, hopefully by doing that I can be more consistent in the majors.
Q.  Does it make a difference, for instance, you just referenced the TPC, those scores are so far afield that maybe that doesn't make as big a difference.  Playing well on a golf course like this going into a golf course like you'll see next week, is that perhaps more valuable?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, maybe, yeah.  I mean, I think there's a lot of good things about playing this week going into next week.  You've got to concentrate all day out here or it's going to get you.  That's what happens at majors:  if you make one mistake, it's going to get you.

The TPC thing was, I didn't really realize how much winning a big tournament like that takes out of you.  You know, I rushed around early in the next week with media stuff, practice rounds at Augusta, trying to play a tournament in Atlanta.  I was just too tired to even play by the end of the week.
Q.  The Front 9 you had three putts that were 10 feet or greater.  Back 9 you dropped two of your approaches, within two feet.  Are the greens playing different front to back?
ADAM SCOTT:  No, not really, no.
Q.  Was it your game today?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, the Back 9 is harder, that's for sure.  But, no, the greens are the same.
THE MODERATOR:  Let's go through your card.  Birdie on 1.
ADAM SCOTT:  It was driver and lob wedge to about six feet.
THE MODERATOR:  Bogey on 2.
ADAM SCOTT:  2 iron in the right trap.  Didn't get up and down.
THE MODERATOR:  3, birdie.
ADAM SCOTT:  Driver, wedge, 20 feet.
THE MODERATOR:  5?
ADAM SCOTT:  3 wood, 9 iron, 15 feet.
THE MODERATOR:  9, par 5?
ADAM SCOTT:  Driver, 7 iron, sand wedge, five feet.
THE MODERATOR:  Bogey on 10.
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, driver, 6 iron, missed the green, didn't get up and down.
THE MODERATOR:  15 and 16.
ADAM SCOTT:  15, driver, 3 wood, a chip and a putt.

16 was 3 wood, 8 iron to a foot.
THE MODERATOR:  Thank you, Adam.
ADAM SCOTT:  Thanks.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT