WACHOVIA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 4, 2005
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Adam, for joining us for a few minutes here in the media center at the Wachovia Championship.  You had an opportunity to play out there this morning in your Pro-Am.  Why don't you talk a little bit about the golf course and maybe the week ahead.
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, well, the course is fantastic, really, very impressed with the way it's set up, nice and firm and fast.  That's something that's kind of new on Tour this year, so hopefully it stays that way.

You know, I left a little late getting in here, but I think fortunately this is a course where everything is pretty much in front of you.  A good opportunity for me to use the driver out there, so I'm excited about playing here.  I've heard a lot of great things about the tournament and look forward to playing here.
Q.  Where have you been since Beijing?
ADAM SCOTT:  I went back to London for a few days last week.
Q.  And then what do you have leading up to Pinehurst?
ADAM SCOTT:  I've got three off and then Memorial, Booz Allen, Pinehurst.
Q.  Do you enjoy playing this type of course, kind of an old style type of course with everything out in front of you?
ADAM SCOTT:  Very much so.  I think most of my success has probably been on newer style golf courses because that's probably what I grew up playing on.  But I enjoy playing this style of golf course more, and also, especially up in the northeast part of the country here, Oak Hills and Winged Foots, I think they're all special courses, and this is one of them, too.  It'll be nice to go out and play well and try and get a victory on one of these type of courses.
Q.  I think one of the guys talked about the lack of rough.  Is that something that you noticed today, that rough is not really much of a penalty?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, it's not too thick.  You can move it up to the green, no problem, really.  It's going to be tough to hold the green in some spots, but the rough is down a little bit, so scoring should be pretty good.  But there's still plenty of trouble to get into out there.
Q.  Was China your first tournament after Augusta?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yes.
Q.  And in spite of what they reported in China, you played well that week obviously?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, I played really well.  You know, just something clicked on Wednesday afternoon on the range, and I went out the next day when it was severe wind, and I played beautiful golf.  Unfortunately we had to stop because the balls started rolling around, but I came out the next morning and finished it off nicely, just set myself up for a good week.
Q.  Is it aggravating at all to realize that you played pretty well, okay at Sawgrass and played well in Beijing and maybe not so great in between?
ADAM SCOTT:  I played pretty good at Augusta.  I didn't get anything out of my game really.  The first two rounds I played really well, just how you'd want to play the first two rounds of that tournament.  I didn't putt very well -- well, I didn't make any putts, and I had a bad stretch finishing my second round the last five or six holes.  That kind of threw me off, then I struggled a little on the weekend.  It was a disappointing week overall, but it wasn't a worry that I was losing my game, it was just disappointing because I felt like I was playing pretty well and I was getting nothing out of it.
Q.  Do you think there's a secret to allowing your game to peak for the majors?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, I definitely haven't found it.  I don't know what it is.  I just haven't quite got in my comfort zone yet, just let myself play.  I felt like I was close at Augusta this year.  The way I was playing the first day and the second day, I was close to going from being -- hanging around 1- and 2-under to go, phew, a few birdies and going to 5-, 6-, 7-under and riding the golf tournament.

But I think I'm getting there.  I'm certainly -- I feel like I'm a lot better player than last year or especially two years ago, and I feel like the majors is where I need to be looking to peak.
Q.  It almost sounds like you're putting too much pressure on yourself when you get there, or anywhere.
ADAM SCOTT:  See, I think I've gone the other way.  I've gone with no expectation, but now I kind of feel like this is what I'm playing for.  I think I've paid my dues somewhat, and I feel like if I were to win a major, it's because I deserve to win one; I've played well.  It's not just a lucky win out of the blue.

I'm trying to shape my game to win major tournaments; it's just a matter of getting comfortable and somehow not letting it be a major affect me.
Q.  Had you been to Beijing before, any highlights of the trip, either golfing or non-golfing highlights?
ADAM SCOTT:  The highlight of the trip was the Great Wall of China.  That was fantastic, one of the most amazing things I've ever seen in my life.  We got to go and walk on that for a little while.
Q.  Did you walk the whole length?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, we did (laughter).  We walked -- I don't even know how far we walked, but it was too far.  We were done after that.  I mean, coming down -- there are steps that are about four- and five-foot steps, steep inclines.  It was hard work.
Q.  Did Monty take a cart?
ADAM SCOTT:  He needed one, yeah.
Q.  Golfers typically on trips like that typically go from the hotel to the course and back.  Did you make a point to see something since you were there?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, there are some places where you have to just find the time to do that.  I mean, that was really special.  It was quite amazing.  I mean, three and a half thousand miles long?  It's hard to even fathom that.  It just goes around -- it goes up these steep mountains.  I mean, it's unbelievable, really.  There are a lot of people up on it, too, walking around.  It was a really neat experience to go and see that.
Q.  Who went with you to see the wall that day, any other players or just your friends?
ADAM SCOTT:  I went with Tony and my trainer that day, but I know a lot of guys did make the trip.  I think the day we were delayed, they organized a bus to take everyone up there, so I think 40 or 50 guys probably went up to see it.
Q.  Did you take some pictures that you're going to -- suitable for framing?
ADAM SCOTT:  I don't know if I can take a picture that good, suitable for framing.
Q.  Are you going to have something, some souvenirs?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, souvenirs, tourist.  We bargained with the locals there and got a hat for like 50 cents or what it was.  Instead of paying five bucks we paid 50 cents.
Q.  Did anybody recognize you or know who you were?
ADAM SCOTT:  No, no one.
Q.  It's not like Tiger Woods walking on the Wall in China?
ADAM SCOTT:  Not at all.
Q.  How long before that was the last time you had paid for a hat?
ADAM SCOTT:  Oh, I go and buy my hats, the LA Dodgers or whatever they are, New York hats.  But this is like the Chinese Army hat or whatever it is.  It's a pretty funny-looking thing, but it had to be done.
Q.  Can you talk about the perks involved in this tournament, and do those factor into your decision to play here and in general the players?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, I think it's -- what they're doing here I think is fantastic.  They've certainly figured out how to attract a good field, give us a brand new Mercedes, two-man Pro-Ams, a great golf course and a great atmosphere and a lot of people come out to watch, and you're going to get a really strong field.  They look after us extraordinarily well.

I had heard great things about it and I was planning on always playing it, but this is a time of year for me when it's my chance to take some time off after Augusta and in between the U.S. Open so I can play right through the end of the year in Australia.  I think, yeah, definitely from hearing what they had to say, that's why I've come back over and I'm going to play this week and then head back off for my break.
Q.  How do you like the car?
ADAM SCOTT:  The car is pretty nice, yeah, very nice.
Q.  Thinking about getting one?
ADAM SCOTT:  No, that's a bit too much of a family car for me, four-door (laughter).
Q.  What are your thoughts on Tiger's win at Augusta?  Do you think he can be as dominant as he once was when you were still a teenager at that point, or do you look at the way it ended, with him kind of chopping it around for a few holes and pulling it out?
ADAM SCOTT:  I think it was a pretty special win.  Maybe the coolest shot he's ever hit on 16, to chip that in.  He stumbled in the last couple holes, but he won it on the playoff.  Yes, I do believe he can be as dominant as he was.  There's no reason why he should not be.  It just depends whether he gets his game and frame of mind back into what it was a few years ago.  You know, certainly a win like that can certainly spur him on to really get into it.
Q.  Are you curious to see if that happens or would you rather it not?
ADAM SCOTT:  A bit of both.  I really enjoyed watching him beat the heck out of everyone.  Of course, it didn't really involve me at that point (laughter).  Yeah, I don't mind if he does.  I think that will push everyone else a bit more.  We've seen what he did to everyone.  I think the standard of golf now is so much higher than it was before he did that.  You know, he spurred everyone else along.  Maybe if he does it again, he'll push us along even further.  When he's on his game, he's almost unbeatable.  We don't want him on there too long.
Q.  With virtually all the top guys here except Ernie and Retief, is there a little extra adrenaline for you at a tournament like this, kind of everybody -- the big guys are resurfacing from Augusta, so to speak, this week.  Is it a little boost of energy?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah.  I mean, any field that you go to and the No. 1 player in the world is playing, there's something special about that tournament.  So there's still competition here this week, and it doesn't just stay above me there, it's also -- there's nine of the top 11, something like that.  I mean, that is a strong field here, and it runs pretty deep.  It's got that feel of a big event, and certainly if you can get right in it this week, you know you're on track.
Q.  You know, one compliment, for young men 16 or so, you're kind of a role model.  There's the Tiger Woods and then there's you and a lot of young people are looking up to you, I'm sure you're aware of that, following your progress as you improve every year.  One of the things you say, you're a better player than you were last year.  Everybody is different; Annika may read the stats and try to improve in her weak area.  Is it training?  Is there some technology that you've tried?  Is it just being more mature and comfortable at the tournament sites?  Is it a combination?  What specifically for you has made you a better player than you were last year?
ADAM SCOTT:  I think experience probably is the biggest factor for me.  I don't necessarily hit the ball better or -- I think I chip and putt better.  I think that area of my game has improved, but not as much as gaining experience and playing in big events and being in situations.  Something a young person can't have is experience because I've only been out here five years, and how can I compete with Ernie Els, who's been out here 15 years on that level.
Q.  When you say your short game, do you do something like let's say a Phil Mickelson would do?  Do you go to certain spots on a hole that you might miss it and try different shots, or is it kind of off-the-golf-course preparation?
ADAM SCOTT:  You know, I think it's just all practice.  That's why my short game is better, just practiced harder.  I'd say I probably neglected it a little bit in the past and realized that's where I need to lift my game to get better, and so I practice harder at the short game.

I honestly believe that just being out here and playing and putting yourself in positions to win or even a position where you've got to birdie the last couple holes to make the cut just because you don't want to miss the cut because you're too proud to do that, I think that's why I'm a better player.  I think just gaining more and more experience gives me a little more confidence in myself.
Q.  Any chance of going to Pinehurst while you're in this fair state?
ADAM SCOTT:  I don't think so, not this time.
Q.  Will you just wait until the Open?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, I like the looks of it, though.  I saw some highlights from five, six years ago the other night.  I'm excited about going there.  I like the way --
Q.  What have you heard or what do you recall hearing about it?
ADAM SCOTT:  You know, obviously the greens, these upside-down greens being the main feature.  They look very similar to sort of Melbourne-style greens with these runoffs off the side.  I'm excited about getting there and playing on that, which I feel pretty comfortable playing.  I wouldn't be surprised if some Australians do well there just because of that kind of feel.  We deal a lot with the ball running 20 yards off to the side of the green.  It's just a great course anyway.
Q.  What do you make of the U.S. Open in the couple that you've played?
ADAM SCOTT:  I've had pretty disappointing U.S. Opens.  I've played three and I've missed three cuts.  Bethpage, I think I was a little out of my element there.  I wasn't playing very well and that wasn't a good week to play poorly.  I played quite well in Olympia Fields, missed by one.  And then last year was a bit of a battle.

I honestly feel like I haven't brought my best game to a major for a start, but definitely not to a U.S. Open.  I think probably the U.S. Open is the most demanding of all.
Q.  Having not gone to the weekend, do you think you've played the real U.S. Open yet in terms of the funny stuff that's tended to happen?
ADAM SCOTT:  No, maybe not.  I mean, Shinnecock was getting a little crazy Friday when I was still there, but that was -- no, I don't think I have.  I'd be pretty disappointed if I was not around to see it this year.  I feel confident that I can compete and get myself in position to do well there.
Q.  Do you like the way they set up Open courses or do you think they push the limit a little far sometimes?
ADAM SCOTT:  Generally they do a pretty good job it seems.  I think they went a little extreme with the greens last year, which was a shame.  It didn't affect the winning score because it was actually better than the last time it was there.  That also proves that I think players are better, too, now.

You know, traditionally they're fast greens and high rough, and last year they didn't have so much rough, so I think they needed to cut the greens to make it tough.  I think the way they set it up is okay.
Q.  Watching the highlights from 99, can you tell me how much of that you've watched, just trying to get a look at the course?
ADAM SCOTT:  Just to get a feel for the way the guys play it.  I know the way a few of the guys play now, so watching them on TV, I can see what they're trying to do maybe.  You know, it's interesting because some guys kind of were pitching the ball up, some guys were running the ball up, but just to get a feel for the way the ball reacts around the golf course.
Q.  Did you actually watch the final holes, the highlights?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah.  I mean, the putts that obviously Payne made were awesome.  That's how you want to win.

You know, I think Pinehurst is a bit of a unique golf course for over here and maybe for a U.S. Open because of these runoff areas.  I'll be interested to see how far they let the ball run off before they put the rough in.
Q.  You said in China while you were on the range that something clicked.  What was that?
ADAM SCOTT:  I actually just shifted my weight back a little more towards my heels in my address before I took the club away, and it just got me a little straighter in posture and a little more solid grounding maybe, and it just freed up my takeaway for whatever reason.  I was struggling off the ball and I was manipulating it a little bit, and I moved back and it just let me take it straight off the ball, and it felt really good.
Q.  How often does something click like that for you?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, every now and again, you just do something and it feels great.  Sometimes it's just for the week.  You know, it's kind of a Band-Aid fix.  But I think this one was actually a pretty major fix for me because I feel like I always tended to get a little too leaned over and on my toes, and it was hard to take the club away properly.

I think this is quite a good thought for me, and I came out today and I only did one day of practice in the last week since China, and I came out today and swung the club beautifully, so I think it was a bit more of a permanent fix.
Q.  Have you ever been offered or considered accepting payment to participate in a Monday corporate outing the week of a tournament, and do you have any thoughts on whether or not that is just disguised as an appearance fee to play in a tournament?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, sure.  You get offers, but I guess I agree with the -- over here it's always been a rule not to have an appearance fee to play in a tournament.  I think that's a good rule and that's one of the reasons why there's a lot of prize money and everyone gets an opportunity to play for that.  You know, obviously in other parts of the world it's different, and yes, I've gone to tournaments on appearance fee and done that, but I feel it should be monitored over here if that's the rule they want to keep.  That's fine, I have no problem with that.  I feel like we're all really fortunate to be playing for a big purse and everyone has got their chance to get a bit of that money.
Q.  What do you think of the Monday corporate outings that they have?  Do you consider those a disguised appearance fee or would you participate in one of those?
ADAM SCOTT:  Well, from what I understand, you don't -- I guess it's not an appearance fee because you're not committed to play in the tournament.  That's what I read anyway.  I mean, yeah, it could be a disguised appearance fee if they're committing you to play in a tournament, sure.  Then I think that's not the way to go.
Q.  Did you see any of 99 on television?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, I watched a lot of it.  I was in college in Vegas at the time.
Q.  (Inaudible).
ADAM SCOTT:  Well, at the time it was a fantastic tournament.  No one knew obviously what it was going to mean later on, but it was a fantastic finish with Payne, and Tiger was right there, and Payne and Phil.
Q.  And Vijay, too.
ADAM SCOTT:  And Vijay was right there, too.  Payne really flipped it right around on Mickelson on 16 when he holed that long putt.  They both hit beautiful shots on 17, and then -- when you make putts like that, that's the way to win one of those big events.  You can see how much it meant to the guys.
Q.  Do you remember if you were rooting for anybody while you were watching that on TV at that moment?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, I was probably rooting for Tiger.  But he missed that putt on 17, so I was just watching it for fun.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Adam, for joining us.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT