PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 18, 2019
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ADAM SCOTT: (Indiscernible) scrambled as well as I could.  That wasn't what I -- I really needed a solid start.  But I really needed under-par front nine I thought to just keep interested in chasing him down.   
 Q.  It must be pretty fleeting if you don't get that start.  
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, I little bit.  I mean, you never know.  It played hard today.   
 Q.  67 (indiscernible) --  
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, there's no low scores.  I'm sure it's averaging easily -- the greens definitely started drying out on the back nine, and the temperature dropped and the wind picked up, and some holes really started playing quite demanding.   
But, yeah, it was a bit of a disappointing start.  I hung in there pretty well and then kept the momentum of at least being even par for a while and then bogeyed 7 and 9, which was -- like the conditions I just explained, not easy to just think you'll get two shots back.  And I worked really hard not to drop any more for the back nine actually.  Take the even par if you sent me back out on the back nine again.   
 Q.  How similar is the feeling playing against Brooks right now as to Tiger in the mid 2000s when he was crushing everyone's dreams and playing a different tournament?  
ADAM SCOTT: Well, it's not quite the same.  And that's no disrespect to Brooks.  I mean (indiscernible) kind of U.S. Open not many years ago.  It's just not we're not used to seeing it that much anymore.   
 Q.  It's hard to do at this level.  
ADAM SCOTT: It's very hard to separate, so every credit.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, but it was kind of not a blow-away until the back nine.  His competitiveness fell off on the back nine.  Look, I think --   
 Q.  Comparable?  
ADAM SCOTT: I think comparing anything to Tiger is a little unfair in a good or a bad way.  I mean, it would be probably bringing down what he managed to accomplish.  He did this multiple times in majors, let alone tournaments.  We hardly see guys win by even numbers in regular events.  Brooks has separated himself here, two, three rounds, and it's unlikely that he could play poor enough to cough it up tomorrow.   
But you've got to tee off with the hope.  I mean, I shot 6-under yesterday.  Maybe they'll set the pins up a little friendlier and give someone a chance to do that.  You never know.  It's possible he could struggle and shoot a couple over.   
 Q.  What are you saying to yourself?  
ADAM SCOTT: Well, hopefully the pins (indiscernible) middle of the greens.  But, yeah.  I mean, yeah, the focus obviously is not winning, it's just to go out there and shoot a great score and try to have a good finish in a major and take something out of the week.  That's where I'm at the moment.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT