THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 28, 2005
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
Can you talk about the conditions today, how difficult it was, the wind and two rounds of golf?
ADAM SCOTT:  It was pretty brutal.  I mean, it was a long day.  It was wet underfoot, it was hard work walking, but then in the wind, I mean, you really have to be sharp.  I mean, even your good shots can end up bad.  It was gusting so much today, it's very difficult.

I played pretty well, I didn't make any putts today, and that was the difference between me winning and not winning.
Q.  How about just the difference between the golf course, the tournament this year and last?
ADAM SCOTT:  There's no comparison really.  I mean, I think fortunately it had rained the whole week for a delay because if it hadn't, I don't know if anyone would have finished out here.  The gusts were really strong, and even being in control of your golf ball, you're at the Mercy of the wind.

But like I said, on days like these, you have to putt really well, and I just wasn't rolling it today.
Q.  Talk about obviously you wanted to defend the title.  You didn't do so, but you were with the group.  What did you see from Fred throughout the day?
ADAM SCOTT:  Well, I think he made some great putts today and especially on the front nine this afternoon.  He just did what he had to do to get him a chance.  He played really solid, and it just goes to show that you don't have to overpower the course even in these conditions.  He was, as he always is, right down the middle of every fairway and hit beautiful shots into the greens and made a few putts.
Q.  Obviously you didn't defend, but are you still pleased overall with your four or five days out here?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yes, but I'm pretty disappointed because I felt like standing on the 17th tee I still had a chance to win the tournament.  I knew 8 was the number and I was at 7-under, so birdieing the last two, although it's difficult conditions, it was still realistic.  You never know what could happen.  You get to 18, and Fred may not get it up-and-down.  I felt like I had a chance, so I'm a little disappointed.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT