BOOZ ALLEN CLASSIC
June 26, 2004
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   As the 54 hole leader, Adam Scott is the winner of this week's CRESTOR Charity Challenge, and a donation of $50,000 will be given to the healthcare charity of your choice.  In addition, the Children's Inn at NIA will receive $50,000 from Booz Allen and CRESTOR.  Congratulations.  And also, this will be the second time that you have received this award this year.
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, thanks.  That program with CRESTOR is quite amazing that they have got $100,000 every week to give to charity, and I think each week in the local community some money goes back into a charity that's related to the area where we play and I think that makes a big impact on the community.  So I'm very happy to win this again, and hopefully it goes to good use.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   On that note, you played great in some tough conditions this afternoon, and you've got a nice lead going into the final day.
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, you know, it's funny how it panned out.  It was playing tough at the end and I just managed to hang on.  And it seemed like a few of the other guys stumbled over the line, and a couple good saves for me and that birdie on the last really set me up.  Hopefully a solid round tomorrow and I get out of here with a win.
Q.  I'm trying to keep track of all the times in this round you were either in the rough or on the fringe or first cut or in a bunker, and even with that, you managed to gut out a tough round.  When you play in this condition, is this even a better round than say perhaps the lower round scores that you shot Thursday or Friday?
ADAM SCOTT:   No, well, I mean, it's hard to compare.  But I really felt like I didn't play poorly today.  I hit good shots.  It's the first time I've played the course in my wind, so I had to change my plan on a few holes and that makes it a little tricky.  I found myself in a few fairway bunkers and in the rough a couple of times, but I really wasn't that far off.  I didn't really hit any wild shots and thought I was playing pretty solid. But in the wind today, 4 under was a good round.
Q.  Do you feel like you're playing better than you were at THE PLAYERS?  Does it feel at all like that did?
ADAM SCOTT:   I'm going to say no, but not by much.  At THE PLAYERS, I really felt I played the best I've ever played.  I mean, I was hitting the ball so well and I really felt I could do anything that I wanted with it, and the putting felt very natural at THE PLAYERS.  You know, I think I've still got a couple of things to work on here before tomorrow and just get comfortable out there and hopefully get off to a nice start.  It's close.  I'm definitely playing very well.
Q.  It's very rare when a guy will have a six shot lead, but a lot of guys will say things like, basically go out and pretend it's a brand new day and I'm level on the card with everybody else out there.  Is that how you approach it and how do you trick yourself into not thinking, "I've got this enormous lead"?
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, each time, I look at it as just try and play another round of golf.  I don't try and pretend I'm level with anyone.  I just play a round of golf.  If I play anything like I have the next four days, unless someone shoots real low, I should be all right.

I really just try to take the pressure off myself at start of the round.  You never know what's going to happen in nine or ten holes and then you have to reassess on the back nine and see what position you're in.
Q.  4 under today, that's a pretty good round, were you surprised that none of the guys close to you were weren't able to make a move today or they finished up so poorly?
ADAM SCOTT:   Yes and no.  The last four or five holes anyway are playing very difficult at the end of the day, 15, 16, 17 and 18.  We haven't played them in the wind yet and the pins are in some tough spots.  So if you went at the pins like you have been the last couple of days, you could get in trouble.

You know, I managed to scramble through there with no damage, which was the difference, I guess between me and a couple of the other guys.
Q.  It seems every time you did make a bogey, you came back with a birdie within a hole or two; how important was that just in terms of maintaining lead confidence?
ADAM SCOTT:   I think it's important that when you do have the lead, that you can stay out in front and just for the feeling of you don't want to lose the lead, you may start doubting yourself or something.  But even still, you should be able to overcome that.  I mean, it's so early teeing off today, we're only halfway through the tournament.  There's so much golf to play, that you really can't be thinking about, "oh, I'm losing a lead."  But bouncing back is very important and it gets you back on the right track, and it was nice I could follow up those bogeys with some birdies.
Q.  Do you recall what your lead was at THE PLAYERS and just sort of how you did approach that round?  Do you remember what it was?
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   2 over Lickliter and someone else.
Q.  How do you approach it that day, just keep doing what you're doing?
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, I mean, that was two shots around there is nothing, obviously.  And that was probably, I mean, the biggest lead I've ever held obviously.  It was the same thing, I just went out and just tried to just play and see what position I got myself in.

The hardest thing is getting yourself in a rhythm early on in the round.  You want to get off to a nice start and just get yourself settled into the round so you can find out how you're playing and know when you can attack.

You know, I got off playing pretty good with a birdie at the second at THE PLAYERS and I'd be looking for a similar kind of start out here tomorrow hopefully.
Q.  Obviously having a caddie with as much experience as Tony, you have never been in a position where you've got this big of a lead, it will be a new experience for you going out no matter how you approach it, it's going to be new.  Are you going to pick his brain any about what it's like to have a guy in that position?
ADAM SCOTT:   No, I've led in Europe by a lot before, which I can hopefully draw on that experience.  I mean, I've never led over here by this many, but I've led in Europe by a lot.

You know if I just go out and play quality golf, I think it's pretty hard to catch up out here, especially if the wind is blowing, but even if someone does come at me, I think I'm playing well enough that I can hopefully hold them off.
Q.  That's what Charles said, in your position, he would hope the wind blows.  Are you hoping it's another nasty day?
ADAM SCOTT:   Well, yeah, if it blows as much as it does today, that would be nice.  Hopefully it doesn't blow us off the golf course.  I don't know, I don't really care either way.  I just want to go play.  (Laughter.)
Q.  How big of an influence was Greg Norman for you growing up, and also it just a coincidence that you now work with Butch Harmon who was his teacher and Tony Navarro who was his caddie?
ADAM SCOTT:   Well, Greg was my idol growing up as a kid, and it is kind of just a coincidence.  I moved to Las Vegas to go to University there and I hooked up with Butch out there.  But I knew Butch coached Greg in the past and he was coaching Tiger at the time.  So I was very fortunate there to get myself in that door.

You know, the Tony thing just came up after Augusta this year, and it was nice that Greg offered me to use Tony.  He knew I was looking for a caddie after Augusta, so that was nice, and hopefully it's going to work out well.
Q.  Is he still a big influence on you?
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, absolutely.  I don't get to see him too often.  He's a pretty busy guy.  I'm playing out here, and it's nice to catch up with him every now and again in Australia and on the phone.  I still call him up and ask him for advice on things, for sure.
Q.  Olin is quite the gamer and ready for tomorrow, but at the same time he was talking about watching your swing and he said, you know, the way this guy is playing right now, hitting the ball is like poetry.  He did seem to be quite in awe when you hit the last drive 310 in the wind.  Do you get that sense at all playing with these guys, do they ever say anything to you along those lines?
ADAM SCOTT:   You know, occasionally, if you're on the range messing around, showing off.  (Laughter.) But no, Olin was a pleasure to play with today.  He walked off and said "nice drive" and kind of raised his eyebrows at me.  You know, a little bit, I feel like it's quite good to get them thinking that way and hopefully go out and do it again tomorrow and just get in their head a little bit.  There's a good thing to do.  Tiger did it unbelievably well.  He got in the best player in the world's head and he seems to have their number all the time.  It's nice if you can do that a little bit.  I think you have a little bit of an edge.  But I'm sure they have plenty of experience as well and they know it's not how far you drive the ball that gets it done.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   Let's go through your birdies and bogeys starting with 2.
ADAM SCOTT:   2 was driver, 4 iron, lob wedge, four feet.

4, 2 iron, 6 iron in the sand and then two putts.

6, driver and a 3 iron and a chip and a tap in.

8, driver, sand wedge, two feet.

9, that was a pitching wedge and a 3 putt from 60 feet.

10, 2 iron, lob wedge, 15 feet.

13, driver, 6 iron and two putts from 35 feet.

14, 4 iron, lob wedge and ten feet.

15, driver, 7 iron, chip and two putts.

18, driver, 9 iron, three feet maybe.
Q.  We know you're 2 for 2 with a 54 hole lead on the PGA TOUR; is that correct?  Do you have any kind of streak going back from the European Tour?
ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, I think I've lost one.  So that would be six out of seven.
Q.  Where was that?
ADAM SCOTT:   That was the English Open in 2001.
Q.  How long ago was that in terms of the streak?
ADAM SCOTT:   That was the second time I had a 54 hole lead.
Q.  So you're 5 for 5 since?
ADAM SCOTT:   Five straight.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   Thank you for joining us.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT