BOOZ ALLEN CLASSIC
June 25, 2004
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  We would like to welcome Adam Scott into the interview room.  Tournament record 36 holes, 14 under par, 128.  Congratulations, great start to the tournament.
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, I got off to a good start.  I played really good the last two days.  I think I hit every green yesterday and    missed one green yesterday and hit every green today.  So, you know, I've not really been in too much trouble so far and made my share of putts today, which was nice.
Q.  The course is getting a lot of rave reviews.  The greens are rolling really good.  Do you owe a lot of the way you're playing to that?
ADAM SCOTT: Absolutely, I think the course is in great shape.  The greens are rolling really well, especially this morning, fresh and pretty quick this morning.  I think weather permitting, it will be nice for the weekend.
Q.  Can you take us through your birdies.

(Scorecard read.)
Q.  Questions?  Can you recall a 36 hole stretch where you missed one green before?
ADAM SCOTT: You know, I have had a couple good runs.  Not many, but yeah, I have had a couple good runs.  This week, it's been pretty solid, and I would have to say I left a few out there yesterday, but obviously made up for them today.
Q.  Adam, since the Player's, you missed three to four cuts.  Any reason and what     obviously you got it back this week.  Can you explain that?
ADAM SCOTT: I took a little time off after the Player's, but I just think I really struggled with my putting last week at the US Open.  I lost my confidence early on Thursday, and the greens being so fast, that didn't help me much with no confidence.  The greens here this week, I've seen a couple go in and got a really good feel for it.  It was really just about the putting since the Player's, and I really struggled with that.
Q.  Adam, you have been getting a couple breaks, like on 5 today.  (Inaudible)?
ADAM SCOTT: I think if I can keep hitting the greens like I am, they're rolling so good, I'm going to make a few putts.  It's really sticking to the game plan I've got and hopefully execute the shots how I have been.  I think it will be just down to who makes the putts on the weekend.
Q.  Adam, I was listening to you list all the birdies.  It's hard to remember them all.  It's got to feel pretty good?
ADAM SCOTT: That's a nice problem to have.  At the start of the week, I thought there were birdies out there.  I think the guys are going to keep it going for the weekend.
Q.  I have two questions, one, have you played this tournament before?
ADAM SCOTT: No.
Q.  When you play a tournament for the first time, is it almost better to go in with the fresh attitude than sometimes going into places where maybe you haven't done as well as you like?
ADAM SCOTT: Sure, I think if you play poorly for a few years, you're obviously going to struggle.  Your mind set will not be really good.  I have never been here before.  It's perfect conditions.  There is nothing really negative for me to look at this week.
Q.  There seems like there are a lot of younger guys on the leaderboard.  Tell us about maybe the up and coming stars versus the veterans and how you guys are making your mark?
ADAM SCOTT: I think we've got a little way to go before we really make our mark out there.  Obviously there are a lot more young players on tour.  We're far from dominating the game.  It's not turning around like tennis did or anything like that.  I think experience counts for so much on tour.  You can't buy 15 or 20 years experience like some of these guys have.  Each week is a learning week for the young guys, but I think you're going to see a few more young players coming through.  Billy is here and I think he's probably the next one to do really well.
Q.  Can you take us through    you missed the cut at the Open.  Did you come right here?  When did you start playing?
ADAM SCOTT: I stayed up there on the weekend and practiced and played.  I came out here Tuesday morning for a practice round.  Actually I have been here once before.
Q.  Where did you play?
ADAM SCOTT: The National Golf Links I think it is.
Q.  You set the 2 round record, and when do you start thinking about a target score that might win, or do you play that way?
ADAM SCOTT: I don't think really about a target score.  You know, going into the weekend, I'm in good shape.  You don't know what the conditions are going to be like.  If you've got a low score in your mind and it's tough, you've got to adjust.  You take it as it comes.  If I keep hitting shots like I am at the moment, I'm going to make a few birdies, so I'm sure the scoring will keep going the way it is.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, it's a really friendly rivalry.  I've known Charles since I was in college over here, and I say it all the time, but it's not     I like to see the young guys play well, because it motivates me more to go out and play better myself, and so maybe Charles is what got me going today.  You know, we might occasionally have a bet or something, but that's illegal on the tours.
Q.  You played on the President's Cup Team.  Can you describe what that was like, and are you     were you happy to see Player and Nichlas come back?
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, I think so.  It was a little unfinished business for those two maybe.  Hopefully I'll be on the next team here in Washington and we'll do our best to try to get our hands on the cup we can't seem to win.  I think it's good that they came back and I think now when it comes back here, it will be bigger and better.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
ADAM SCOTT: I was probably more nervous watching that playoff than I've ever been on a golf course.  You know, a lot     there was a lot of pressure on those guys, but, no one really wanted to lose.  We could be only sit on the side and watch.  You don't think it's a really big deal until you're actually there.
Q.  We'll take one more.  How long have you been working with Butch?  And what has he helped you with the most; would you say?
ADAM SCOTT: I have been working with him four and a half years, and, I mean, it's hard to say what he's helped me with most.  He's taken me from an okay amateur player to on the tour now.  That's a pretty long way.  So, I think he's helped me tremendously in all areas.  Probably especially with the short game and also mentally as well.
Q.  Adam, thanks for coming by.  Good luck this weekend.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT