MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 14, 2019
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Not the weekend you really wanted, struggled getting momentum going today?
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, it was not easy today. I mean I didn't, unfortunately 4 and 5 was a big set back after a good start the first couple of holes. But 4 and 5 put me on the back foot and I just wasn't quite as sharp today as the first three days with some of my shots and but it was a bit trickier, it was a bit windier, and I just didn't give myself that many good opportunities. A couple of the pins where you can feed it in I just didn't get it in a position to do it or I didn't hit a good enough shot and I've putted well today, but I didn't really have anything that I felt like I could make. 

Q. That was the big difference from the first three days where you struck the ball but just didn't hole much, just ball striking was a bit of a battle today?
ADAM SCOTT: It wasn't a battle ‑‑ no, it wasn't a battle, I still played well ‑‑ but I just couldn't get anything going. I did strike it very, very well the first three days and it was a little easier, so the shots were finishing a bit closer and there was a lot more opportunities and today it wasn't and, yeah, there was some good scores out there, guys are making some eagles on the back nine, but again, I didn't, I haven't seen anyone light the course up today. It was tricky, so it just wasn't quite on.

Q. Was it a very different feeling than normal here with the threesomes, the two tee start, the early start and the conditions?
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, it was a bit of a funny turn around. Didn't quite have the build‑up overnight. So, which was, which was all good for me, but I've only ever done the two tee start once before, I don't think I've ever even done the threesomes on the weekend. 

Q. And putting this week wasn't so much anything stroke related, speed of the greens and everything being different force you to struggle a little?
ADAM SCOTT: Well, I did and I think I didn't keep in my good posture putting and it got out of sorts a little bit yesterday and Brad, my coach, thought the ball position got back and that's why I missed a few putts to the right and I was battling that on the course yesterday, but it's very hard to know exactly what it is when you're out there and everything's happening, but I fixed it up today and it felt great again. So it's never too late. Just one of those things.

Q. And next start for you?
ADAM SCOTT: I'm going to be playing the Zurich.

Q. And have you been up to Bethpage to have a look yet?
ADAM SCOTT: I haven't, no, not for a couple of years since I played there.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT