THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 26, 2004
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thank you for joining us for a few minutes in the media center at THE PLAYERS Championship.  Even par round today, 72.  Kept your position, still a great position going into the weekend.  Why don't you talk, maybe compare the conditions from yesterday morning to today, maybe how you played.
ADAM SCOTT:  They were totally different conditions from yesterday morning.  It was ideal for golf yesterday morning.  By the time I got here this afternoon the wind had been blowing for a little while, the sun shining and the greens baked right out.  And a couple of holes into the round I found out how firm they were, chipped it straight across the green.  All day the conditions varied with the wind blowing on and off, and a little more coming in, and then stayed calm for a little while.  So it varied a lot.

I had to make a few adjustments to adapt to the conditions, but overall I played pretty solid and thought I hung in there well.  I didn't play as good as yesterday, obviously.  I had my chance, I just didn't take them today.
Q.  Yesterday was 40-something birdies on the 18th, today there were less?
ADAM SCOTT:  I think the pin position.  It was further back.  It's harder to get to, smaller target, and nothing feeds into the hole.  So I think it's the pin position.
Q.  The weather had that much -- how was the green on 18?
ADAM SCOTT:  The green on -- it rained a little bit when I got there, but I thought it was fine.  It wasn't as hard as some of the previous greens.
Q.  Did the rain help you from the standpoint of softening the greens or did it hurt you more from changing speed from what you were used to most of the round?
ADAM SCOTT:  I don't think it softened them too much.  I think it sat on top and went away.  It skipped a little -- the ball skipped out a little bit, skidded on them, rather than stopping.  But I think the greens needed that whole shower.
Q.  Did it affect the speed of the putts coming in or not really?
ADAM SCOTT:  Not really, only while it was raining, it just slowed up a little bit, but they dried out straight away.
Q.  Second on 4, were you trying to -- you had a difficult lie there, trying to start it left?
ADAM SCOTT:  No, you know, with the water being left and the ball up in there, I didn't want to mess with the water, and it went a little further than I thought it would.  It was too far back from the green.  But I didn't think it was a shot I could get too cute with.
Q.  Putting all the way on 6?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, no chipping?
Q.  Yeah.
ADAM SCOTT:  I felt like an average putt is going to be like a good chip.  So it's a tough call on some of those ones, but I felt comfortable with a putter down there.  It's pretty tight.  And a poor chip can end up back at your feet or 20 feet long.  I felt like par was the percentage play.
Q.  What do you think you need to do tomorrow?
ADAM SCOTT:  Pretty much, you know, what I did again today, conditions being different, but if I'm within two of the lead again tomorrow, I'll be pretty happy with that, giving myself a chance for Sunday.  But hopefully I go out and play really well and get in the lead and put myself in perfect shape come Sunday.
Q.  What are the hardest holes for you personally on this golf course?
ADAM SCOTT:  Well, obviously 17 is a difficult hole, just because of what it is.  But there are a few out there, I think, a tough stretch on the back nine, 12, 13, 14, 15 are tough holes.  And then on the front nine you play 4, 5, 6, 7 is a stretch of tough holes.  So all those are the tough holes on the course, and you're looking to get away with nice pars.
Q.  You didn't play as well as yesterday, obviously, but was it more the course or was it your play that affected it?
ADAM SCOTT:  No, I played differently than yesterday.  I was quite aggressive yesterday and I fired at a few pins because I felt the greens could take the shots.  And today I figured out early that I didn't think they would, and if I messed up then I would be going backwards quick.  So I changed the style of play today to a little more defensive and was just happy making some pars and hopefully getting a birdie in there from 20 feet.
Q.  Has anyone asked you about the chipping lesson you had from Greg?
ADAM SCOTT:  Yeah, Bob was touching on it yesterday.  I've already seen some good results from it, and hopefully a few more to come.
Q.  What did he teach you exactly?
ADAM SCOTT:  It was a technique, really.  My terrible technique was not letting me control the ball at all.  And we just worked on keeping the club outside my hands and the whole swing, being more aggressive.
Q.  Have there been any places where you've used it this week?
ADAM SCOTT:  I've used it on every chip this week that I've had.  I've had a couple of tough chips, but the simple ones are the ones where I normally struggle, just a simple chip out of the fairway with plenty of green, that's where I struggle, and I've chipped them in nicely, so it's been good so far.
Q.  Is Greg a better teacher than Darren Clarke?
ADAM SCOTT:  I'd say so.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Can we go through your birdies and bogeys, please?  You starred on 10.  16, the bogey.
ADAM SCOTT:  16, driver and a 5-iron left of the green.  First chip, didn't get on the green, chipped up to about four feet and missed it.

17, that was a wedge to probably 20 feet.

3, the par-3, I hit 8-iron to about three feet.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  You said you hit it over the green.
ADAM SCOTT:  9-iron over the green and didn't get the first one on the green and chipped it to a foot.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Adam, for joining us.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT