JOHNNIE WALKER CLASSIC
January 28, 2004
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ADAM SCOTT:  I am looking to get some form going and get off to a good start to the season.


Q.  -- has a very good field?

ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, it always is.  The Johnnie Walker, it is a tournament that I watched a kid growing up and hope to have played in and hopefully some day I can win this tournament.  I think it's something that looks pretty good on your profile. 


Q.  Will you play about the same number of events in Europe as on the U.S. Tour?

ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, I think I will end up playing about 13 for Europe and 17 for America. 


Q.  Inaudible?

ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, luckily I haven't seen Geoff Ogilvy who got beaten by Annika, so I can look forward to seeing him.

 It's not really great to be beaten by a 14-year-old girl who is still in high school when you are out doing it for a living.  I've got plenty about it, don't worry.  Most of it's unrepeatable.


Q.  Inaudible?

ADAM SCOTT:   No, I didn't think I played that bad.  But she's obviously a fantastic talent.  To shoot 2-under around there on that Friday afternoon was pretty impressive.  It was a tricky course and there wasn't too much room for error. 


Q.  Inaudible?

ADAM SCOTT:  I have an e-mail from a friend I went to college with in America.  The title of the e-mail was "Sony Open leaderboard."  I clicked on it and I didn't know what it was all about and it said:  "Michelle Wie at 140 and Adam Scott at 143."  I sent him one back letting him know how I felt. 


Q.  Inaudible?

ADAM SCOTT:   I'm not going to bring it up.  (Laughter.) I won't bring it up. 

Annika and Michelle, it was good they played it and they are up to the standard that they have a chance of making the cut and doing well, I guess. 

I think  -- I don't know where it's really all meant to be going.  I don't see them doing it full-time.  I think it draws some interest into the game which is good, but I'm not sure that it needs to be keep happening.  They proved their point and they can play and obviously show that they can make the cut.  We gave them a chance at it.  And Annika, I think she knows where she wants to play. 


Q.  Inaudible?

ADAM SCOTT:   My performance in the majors, especially the U.S. Open, British Open, has been pretty disappointing to me.  So I'm going to plan my season around that, to be in good form and well rested and prepared coming into those tournaments, so I am going to prepare around them. 


Q.  How is your form now?

ADAM SCOTT:   It's pretty average.  I'm not swinging the way I would like it to be.  I think I'm still a little loose after having a little bit of a break.  I got away with it at the Mercedes because the fairways were so generous and I didn't really pick up on problems that week because I wasn't really hitting that straight.  Next week really showed me I was not hitting the ball my best, and last week I was back in full swing on the range trying to work it out. 

So, it's getting there.  I know what I've got to work on.  Probably the next few weeks it will be nice to see it progress a bit and tighten up. 


Q.  Inaudible?

ADAM SCOTT:   I only hit three drivers around here.  At least that's going for me.  I can get it around with a 3-wood and 2-iron.  Still, you don't want to miss any fairways out here.  That rough is pretty thick in spots. 


Q.  Inaudible?

ADAM SCOTT:   Brian Nilson (ph) is on the bag this week.  My regular caddie is in Europe, he's getting married and on his honeymoon next week, I guess.  So I relieved him of duty for a couple of weeks.


Q.  Inaudible?

ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, I want to finish high on the Order of Merit.  I don't know if I can win it playing so few events, but then, most of the events are quite big money events, so you never know.  If you can get a win in one of the big ones a major or a world golf event or something, you can put yourself with a big chance. 

You know, I definitely want to finish high on the Order of Merit over there.  But really, to win all of the tournaments would be a good thing for me in Europe. 


Q.  What do you think of the golf course this week?

ADAM SCOTT:   I think it's a very good golf course.  I like the way they have set it up.  It's pretty tight off the tee, but if you hit it in the fairway, the greens are receptive and you can put it in there pretty close.  So the guys who are hitting a lot of fairways this week have a good chance I think.  You know, the greens are grainy, but they roll smooth enough.  So I think there will be some putts made out here. 


Q.  Has anything changed in your profile in America since winning in Boston?

ADAM SCOTT:   No, nothing not really.  Nothing's really changed at all other than I'm a little more known on the U.S. tour, I guess now than I was before.  No, it's been a good response from America as far as winning over there.  I think it was good for me because most people saw me on the Golf Channel over there before and got me confused with Justin or someone.  So at least I'm over there now and they know who I am.


Q.  Inaudible?

ADAM SCOTT:   No, not really.  I mean, I think I was ranked in the Top-50 already.  I think that's kind of a step where you're in all of the big events and that's what sponsors and that kind of thing are looking for from their players to get exposure in those big tournaments, so I was already there.  I could imagine it you won a few times or won a major or something like that, that would be a big change, yeah. 


Q.  Do you know of J.D. who has won events in Asia?

ADAM SCOTT:   I know J.D.  I've played with him a few times and he's very good. He obviously wins a lot n the Asian Tour.  So that's about all I know is J.D.


Q.  Do you feel any added pressure this week?

ADAM SCOTT:   From J.D.?  Well, he's obviously good enough to win all of these tournaments, but you can't worry about other players out here.  It's hard enough worrying about your own game.  I'll let him play his game and just get on with my own. 


Q.  Are you managing well this week?

ADAM SCOTT:   No, I'm doing all right.  The food in the player's lounge is a little bit spicy.  I think there might be some repercussions from that.  No, I think I'm doing all right. 


Q.  Gotten to see the area at all?  Is this your first time here?

ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, maybe tonight we'll go out somewhere in Bangkok.  This is my first time, yeah. 


Q.  Inaudible?

ADAM SCOTT:   No, not really.  I didn't hear too many comments.  I really don't think anybody expected her to do any good at all.  Everyone just kind of let it go.  Whereas Annika is the world No. 1 woman player and there were probably some high expectations of her at Colonial.  I don't think anyone expected Michelle Wie to be any good, to be honest, and I think she surprised a lot of people. 

I had no problems with her playing.  She deserved to play as far as I could see. 


Q.  What score do you expect you'll have to shoot this week?

ADAM SCOTT:   Maybe 15- to 20-under.  If it's good conditions, 15- to 20-under. 


Q.  What do you think of the climate so far?

ADAM SCOTT:   The weather?  Beautiful. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT