DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 1, 2003
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Congratulations, Adam.  You've been working on this for a long time here in the United States, and I know you're pretty proud of it and probably a lot of emotions going on right now.  Why don't you just share those emotions with us, and then we'll go into some questions.

ADAM SCOTT:   Well, it's kind of a relief, for one.  Although, it's very difficult to win in America.  I feel that, being not just a foreigner, but being a young player, there's a lot of pressure out there on this tour.  And there are only a few young players who have done very well in the past, and one is probably Sergio and the other is Tiger, really young guys, winning over here a lot.  It's difficult to do. 

So, yeah, I'm relieved, but I'm pretty proud of the way I played today.  I played very well and was very solid out there. 


Q.  Did you plan to attack like you did today? 

ADAM SCOTT:   No, I said yesterday it was kind of conservative/aggressive out there, and that's what I did.  I felt I had to make birdies out there, with good scores again from the guys who were just behind me.  So if I shot par, I would not have won.  I felt I had to make birdies.  And birdieing 2, I got a great break there looking back on it.  Missed it a little right with my second shot and jumped left and stayed out of the hazard and that was a huge break. 

And then from there, you know, I played the next five holes really well. 


Q.  Did you notice Rocco making a charge? 

ADAM SCOTT:   When I bogeyed the 11th today, I asked my caddie, how do we stand, because I had not seen a leaderboard at all.  He said Rocco was at 15 (under), and I felt like that was a little bit of a shock.  I felt like I was way out in front, but I was only like three in front.  I felt like it was time to knuckle down and really bury it. 


Q.  Rocco missed a short birdie putt on 14 and a few seconds later, you got up-and-down on 13 to save par.  Were you even aware of that? 

ADAM SCOTT:   No idea.  Wasn't playing any attention to the leaderboard at that point.  I had my work cut out trying to get the ball in the hole and not worrying about other people.  My putting was unbelievable on the back nine, some of the putts I made.  Surprised myself. 


Q.  How far did you have on the putt on 13? 

ADAM SCOTT:   It's got to be at least 12 feet. 


Q.  (Inaudible.)

ADAM SCOTT:   Once. 


Q.  You've obviously done well with the lead, what is it about some people having great success from front and others don't? 

ADAM SCOTT:   I don't know.  I think I've put myself in this position six times, so it's pretty solid.  The second time I was in the lead after 54, I didn't win.  That was the English Open 2001, and I had won once already.  And when I didn't win, I said, "All right, I'm never letting that happen again."  It's worked so far.


Q.  What is it about this style of play, is it a matter of having a presence of holing the key putts? 

ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, obviously, you can't win if you don't putt well, especially coming down the stretch.  But for whatever reason, every week I've won, I felt my putting has been very good and my game has been in really great shape.  Everything feels quite easy and just flows out there.  I just kind of get my way around the course and seem to not get into too much trouble, hitting in hazards and making doubles and making it even more difficult than it already is. 


Q.  That being said, what surprised you about your putting on the back; that you made them? 

ADAM SCOTT:   Well, I didn't play the back nine particularly well from tee-to-green.  I missed a few fairways and missed a few greens because of that and I left myself some 40-footers, 50-footers, 60-footers and I didn't really knock them stone dead.  I left them four feet, six feet and those were the ones that surprised me, knocking them all in.  Didn't give anything up to the rest of the guys coming at me out there. 


Q.  Can you talk about your putting problems over the years, is the root of your ability to  --

ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, my putting has been quite poor for the first half of this year and it puts so much pressure on the rest of your game when you putt poorly.  Even playing well, I felt like I was playing poorly because I felt like I had to hit every green or I'm not going to make any birdies or pars even.  3-putting five times around, it was ridiculous. 

I really hit a low point at the Open this year at St. George's.  And the next week, I took the next week off and went home and all I did was putt and chip for the week.  I didn't hit any balls and I just spent hours putting and chipping, and that really turned it around. 


Q.  This may be what you mean by conservative/aggressive, but it looked at some point that you determined, "I'm not going to do anything silly, I'm going to take care of this, "and then it's almost as if Rocco coming behind you, kicked you into another gear; would that be accurate?

ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, I felt pretty comfortable coming through the turn.  I was playing quite safe and leaving myself 20, 25 feet just in middle of the greens.  I felt that was the best way to go.  Like I said, when I bogeyed 11 and found out Rocco was 15, I had a three-shot lead, I felt like, let's get a bit more focused and picked my way around the last few holes and stayed out of trouble.


Q.  Where's home?  Where do you have home? 

ADAM SCOTT:   Well, I have a home in Australia, but I live pretty much in London most of the time. 


Q.  Do you live on a course --

ADAM SCOTT:   Golf course, no.  I just live in town there. 


Q.  Where do you chip-and-putt? 

ADAM SCOTT:   A golf course, Queenwood, it's a new golf course.  A few of the guys on tour are members there. 


Q.  Inaudible?

ADAM SCOTT:   Yeah, a little bit.  Obviously, I know I can win over here, but that should not be taken for granted, either.  I think I've played exceptionally well this week and I made the most of it.  As I said earlier in the week, I think I still have a lot to prove in Europe and I feel like I have a lot to achieve over there still.  I'm far from done with Europe and I'm only just starting over here.  So I've got plenty of stuff I want to achieve from here. 


Q.  (Inaudible.)

ADAM SCOTT:   I'm not really keen on jumping back and forth all the time, but fortunately the majors and the World Golf Championships count for the European Tour, as well as here.  So that way you can make the numbers up quite easily if you play a few around the majors, a few around the World Golf Championships.


Q.  Where does this victory rank? 

ADAM SCOTT:   Obviously, this is very special, to win in America.  I think winning for the first time as a professional is always going to be my most memorable win, but this probably beats all the others.  It's quite amazing playing golf over here, the environment.  It's like nowhere else in the world, especially coming from Australia.  I think it's a big difference to how we play golf down there.


Q.  Can you talk about the crowds?

ADAM SCOTT:   I guess everyone seemed to be pretty much behind me and cheering me on, which is nice.  Obviously it's got to be pretty difficult if they are rooting for someone else.  But I really try not to pay too much attention, other than just hearing a lot of noise to the crowds because I'm trying to go about my business and get it done.  It really is difficult not to be distracted because some of it is quite funny. 

Some of the stuff they yell out is quite funny.  I get a lot of "go Justins," "go Aarons," stuff like that, but hopefully today they know.


Q.  How could they mistake you for Aaron? 

ADAM SCOTT:   I don't know.  I don't know that my trousers are pink or anything.  (Laughing) I don't know. 

JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   Adam, could you go through your birdies and bogeys?

ADAM SCOTT:  I hit a driver and 6-iron on the second, pin-high right and chipped up to about four feet.

The third, I hit a 6-iron in there to about five feet.

Next was a driver and a 9-iron from the left rough and that was probably 25 feet there.

9, I hit driver, 3-wood on the front just on the front right of the green and chipped up.  That was probably 12 feet. 

11, I hit a 5-iron and chipped onto 10 feet and 2-putted. 

15 was a driver, sand wedge, put six feet.

Birdie on 18 was driver, 4-iron  -- just on the fringe and I chipped down the hill to six feet or something. 


Q.  You said you still have stuff to prove on Europe, can you elaborate on what exactly you have left to do there? 

ADAM SCOTT:  Since being over there, and obviously playing there for a few years, it seems every clubhouse we go on to on the Tour there, Greg's name is on the  -- not the leaderboard, the Champions List.  You know, that's something that really inspired me when I went over there.  I kept going to these courses and there's Greg's name on this one and there's Greg's name on that one.  And I thought, I'd kind of like to really set that same presence over there that Greg Norman did and have a lot of wins. 

Winning the Order of Merit would be great, as well, over there.  And just  -- I'm not sure if Greg ever won the Order of Merit, but just to be the top golfer in Europe for the year.  It is my home tour and that's obviously what I want to achieve.


Q.  I appreciate that being your home tour, but I wonder if you feel like you are good enough to win the Money List over here, and if Greg eventually didn't make a name for himself more what he did on this tour than he did in Europe?

ADAM SCOTT:   Sure, he did.  I definitely think he did make a big name for himself over here.

What I'm trying to say is I'm trying to follow a similar kind of path as Greg Norman.  He was the best in Europe.  He came over to best Seve and those guys pretty good.  He same over here and then became the best over here. 

I think I've still got some stuff to learn in Europe.  I can develop my game over there, but I the timing is starting to become right to play here a little more.  I think I've got a lot to learn from over here, as well. 


Q.  Do you know what you could learn over there that you could not learn over here?

ADAM SCOTT:   I think the conditions are so adverse over there.  We are playing in some unbelievable conditions over there.  I think that really toughens you up, and if you can handle that, you can handle anything. 

And I definitely drew on experiences from Europe out there on the course today.  It's raining, no big deal.  That's normal.  Stuff like that, it makes you a harder player and if you can grow into that in horrific conditions that you are not meant to be playing golf in, I think things seem quite nice over here and you are tough enough to deal with anything. 


Q.  Of the young players that seem to have most of the success, yourself, Sergio, Aaron to some extent, Justin to some extent, most of them are coming from international, do you think that has something to do with it; that they are not pampered every week and I don't mean that as a negative, but the fact that they are dealing with --

ADAM SCOTT:   Possibly, a little bit.  That's possible.  What you have over here is unbelievable and I think it can be taken for granted, and you really, really have to earn what you get over here.  I think this is where Butch Harmon, Greg Norman, Tom Crow were such big influences on me, saying, "Adam, forget about America," when I first turned pro, "let's go to Europe and get some good grounding over there."  That makes me appreciate a lot more what is over here and just how good it is. 


Q.  Tom who is that?

ADAM SCOTT:   He was the founder of Cobra golf. 

JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   Thank you, Adam, and congratulations again. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT