DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 31, 2003
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  4-under, 67 today, Adam, 3-stroke lead heading into the final round tomorrow.  First opportunity to win on the PGA TOUR.  Talk about what you are thinking about heading into tomorrow.

ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, hopefully I just come out tomorrow with the same rhythm as I had the last three days.  I think that will hold me in good stead.  I have played beautifully from tee-to-green and I have played quite well on the green this week as well.  Everything seems to be in good shape.  There's nothing really I need to go and work on, especially, I think, just to stay sharp tomorrow.

MODERATOR: You will be no stranger to winning.  You've won four times on the European Tour. Do you draw back on some of those experiences, obviously?

ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, I am going to have to draw on some of them.  I have been in the lead every time I have won over there, so I kind of know what it feels like.  Obviously tomorrow there's some different pressures of playing over here and trying to win over here for the first time.  But I feel the stuff I have been working on the way my game has been going, this moment is eventually going to come along.  I have just got to kind of go with it and let it all happen. 

MODERATOR:  Eagle on two, couple more birdies; then ran into some trouble on the back 9.  Off to a good start though.  Talk about the great start and then any frustration from the bogey.

ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, it was a great start today.  Couldn't ask for a better start eagling two and then a couple more birdies through the 7th.  Birdied the 10th to go 5-under and thought, look out, 62 again.  But that will teach me for thinking.  And bogeyed 11.  It's a difficult hole so I wasn't so upset about that, but bogeying 13 from in the middle of the fairway with a 9-iron was disappointing.  That really halted my progress out there today.

But for me, birdieing the last was very important and just to stretch that lead by one more shot could be crucial for tomorrow.

MODERATOR:  Questions. 


Q.   Does it make it more fun for you knowing Justin is right up there with you?

ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, Justin and I have been talking about it recently that we had a bit of a head-to-head battle three years ago when I first one.  That day we said, let's make this a habit and it's never happened since.  (Laughs) so I've been trying really hard to get ourselves up there and have another go at each other. 


Q.   The birdie on 10 looked like you might just run away and hid.  (Inaudible)  --

ADAM SCOTT: Like I said, the first time I started to think about it was on the 11th tee there I was 5-under after 10 I thought I have got a few more birdies in me here.  Take it really deep and stretch myself away.  But it is a difficult golf course, and you can't take it for granted and I think I did a little bit, and I paid the price with a couple of quick bogeys.


Q.   The shot on 13, was it wind or just miss-hit or  --

ADAM SCOTT: I had a bit of uphill lie and I just didn't really catch it clean and the wind knocked it down to the right and then wasn't a bad chip, but a couple of poor putts on those par saves there. 


Q.   Justin said that everyday there's been someone who has gone really low. Do you think the winner will have to go really low tomorrow?

ADAM SCOTT: I don't know.  I mean, it depends.  If I win I don't think I am going to have to go really low, but I may have to shoot 4- or 5-under.  Someone else -- if I do that someone else has to go really low to win, but I definitely think that someone up there on the leaderboard will go low tomorrow and go and shoot 63, 62.   It's happening everyday and I can't see tomorrow being any different unless the weather changes.


Q.   (Inaudible) how much does Greg Norman mean to Australian young Australia golfers coming over here?

ADAM SCOTT: He means the world to me in my golf game.  I have modeled my game off Greg Norman ever since I was seven, eight years old.  And the support he's shown me ever since -- even when I was an amateur before I turned professional and then when I did turn professional it was amazing   - and for him to offer so much of his time to me has been fantastic and I definitely benefited hugely from that.  And for him to say stuff like that is nice to hear.  It kind of confirms in your mind that you are on the right track anyway. 


Q.   (Inaudible)?

ADAM SCOTT: I haven't seen him apart from just saying hi this week. 


Q.   (Inaudible)?

ADAM SCOTT: It is a funny thing having the lead because you want to be a little conservative but not too defensive.  You need to be conservative-aggressive almost, and you know, the if the putts fall your way you can really run away with the tournament.  A couple of times I have done that and other times you are not quite on your game and you have got to really fight for it.  So I am going to go out there tomorrow with a conservative-aggressive approach and this course is offering birdies.  I think I am going to have to make a few to which tomorrow. 


Q.   Did you feel like you got much out of your round or do you look at  the chances that  --

ADAM SCOTT: I think I left a few out there today.  I played very well again today, really solid off the tee and into the greens.  I had a lot of chances; especially on the back nine I had a few lip-outs there and definitely left a couple out there. 

MODERATOR:  Let's go with the card eagle.

ADAM SCOTT: Driver and 4-iron, maybe twelve feet there.

6, was a driver, 7-iron, five feet.

7, drive and 6-iron lay-up, lob wedge on the green and 15 feet.

10 was 2-iron, 9-iron and 15 feet.

Bogey on 11.  Missed the green with a 5-iron; chipped up to four feet and missed.

13 was driver, missed the green with a 9-iron chipped up to four feet and missed.

18 was driver and I laid up with a 9-iron, lob wedge on to 15 feet. 

MODERATOR: Thank you, Adam.  Good luck tomorrow.

ADAM SCOTT: Thanks very much. 




End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT