WGC EMC WORLD CUP
December 12, 2002
Craig Parry
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  We'd like to thank our Australian team for joining us.  Great round today, 12-under par.  You certainly did not waste any birdies.  We're going to use some translations here for our Spanish-speaking media.  If we could, maybe just start with some opening comments on how the day went, 12 birdies, no bogeys.  Great day. 
ADAM SCOTT:   Well, I thought Craig and I both played really well today.  Craig got us off to an ideal start.  I think he birdied the first three, so I just sat back and watched him.  Then I think we missed two greens between us, so there's 34 chances for birdie right away.  12-under is pretty reasonable. 
CRAIG PARRY:  I agree with Adam.  The front nine, I got off to a pretty good start, birdied the first three.  Adam was just watching the first couple of holes, and then on the back nine, he really got going and birdied a few in the middle there and it kept the team going. 
I holed a putt on 17.  Probably on 8 in we should have made birdie from where our tee shots finished.  We had 90 yards to the hole and neither one of us could make birdie.  But we both played really well I thought.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  You won your first TOUR event this year at Sahalee, and it had to be nice to be recognized for what you've done throughout your career that week at Sahalee. 
CRAIG PARRY:  Yeah, it was fantastic to, finally get a win on the U.S. soil, especially with the field that was there.  I played really well.  I thought it was a great golf course.  I thought it was a fantastic golf course heavily tree-lined; so if you hit a wayward shot, you got penalized.  I just felt as though I played really well all week there. 
But this week is another week and we have both come a long way from Australia, so we don't want to play poorly and go home with our tails between our legs.  We want to come over here and play really well. 

Q.  No surprise that you've shot 60 and not leading? 
CRAIG PARRY:  Yeah, I mean, we could have had a couple of more birdies out there, there's no question about that.  We left a couple out there.  All teams are going to do that. 
You know, I think our best part is going to be our foursome; me being able to hit it in from about 40 yards shorter than what I'm normally used to.  I didn't get to drive it on one par 5. 

Q.  That was about the average difference between the drives, is it, 40 yards? 
CRAIG PARRY:  At times it was more.  (Laughing).

Q.  What was the biggest difference? 
CRAIG PARRY:  It was probably about 40 yards. 
But the second hole was probably a classic.  I got up and carved it way right and I thought it was going to be in the trees.  It probably should have been in the trees.  I said to Adam on the tee, I said, "It's your hole here."   
We get down there and my ball is in the clear, no trees around it, and hit 5-iron on the green and made the putt for birdie; and all of the sudden I was out of the hole and making birdies.

Q.  How close was the 5-iron?
CRAIG PARRY:   I hit it to about 18 feet. 

Q.  Were you in the fairway?
CRAIG PARRY:   No.  I was in the right hand -- there's fairway, there's rough and I was right of the rough. 

Q.  How much is out there, your 60, with no eagles and you say you missed a couple; how low could anybody go? 
CRAIG PARRY:   I think a team will break 60, be it today or on Saturday.  If we've got some good weather.  What do you reckon, Adam? 
ADAM SCOTT:  Definitely. 
CRAIG PARRY:   If you get it going.
ADAM SCOTT:  You get a couple of eagles on the par 5s, that takes care of things.  That's a 57 out there for sure.
CRAIG PARRY:  The guys from France, what are they, 12-under right now?  They are probably going to break 60, anyway, you would think. 

Q.  Is there a part of you that would like it to be slightly tougher, or at this time of year are you glad to be free-wheeling? 
CRAIG PARRY:  I think if you're not playing well, it will be tough out there. 
ADAM SCOTT:  Probably.  We just played really good, so we haven't seen too much trouble.  But this tournament is all about tomorrow and the last round.  Going into foursomes, that's where you win it and lose it. 

Q.  How do you plan on playing tomorrow, are you going to be more aggressive or conservative, and if you think the conditions, playing in the morning will be better than playing in the afternoon? 
CRAIG PARRY:  Well, hopefully the wind will get up this afternoon and blow them all off the golf course, but I don't think it's going to happen.  (Laughing).

Q.  How do you plan on playing tomorrow?  What is your plan for tomorrow?
CRAIG PARRY:  I don't think you can play more aggressive.  I think you've just got to try and take the bogeys out of play, have an under-par round and then go on and play the four-ball again on Saturday. 

Q.  How important is the first day for you? 
CRAIG PARRY:  Well, obviously it's important.  They all add up the same.  You know, we got off to a very good start today, however it's not the whole tournament.  We've got another 54 holes to play.  We're obviously in a very good position and that's what we want to be in, a good position, so we can play our way into the championship on Sunday. 





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT