MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 13, 2019
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. What's the advantage of starting back Sunday at Augusta?  
ADAM SCOTT: You just know what you have to do. There's no wondering if you can just make pars and have someone else fall over. That's not happening. So hopefully I feel I can take advantage of some of those scoring pins tomorrow. I hope they're putting them in the normal spots. It was pretty good scoring out there today on a morning like this with no wind, drive it in the fairway and you're going to have green and white flags a lot of the day. It could be fun if you get hot.   
   
 Q. (No microphone.)  
ADAM SCOTT: It will be fun to play for a number. Nothing guaranteed around the last four holes. Especially 17, 18 or 15, as well. But 17 and 18 are tough holes where you just have to hit two really good shots on both of the holes. So, certainly playing well enough to do it, I just have to get it going. Get my momentum early.  
   
 Q. Tell us what happened at 15?  
ADAM SCOTT: What happened at 15?   
   
 Q. You had a difficult chip down?  
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, I hit a good chip there. But it was a soft 6‑iron so I just didn't hit it well enough. There was a lot of club. And I had another poor shot on 16 and another one on 17. Three in a row hitting soft shots. I'll try not to hit soft shots tomorrow.  
   
 Q. You've gone out in the 3:00 time as a leader, what's the difference this year for a guy teeing off at 9:20? Better?  
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, much better for him. Especially if it's bad weather we're playing in, there's no time dwelling on things now for him. And go to bed and get up and go. So I think that's a good thing. I'd prefer that, if I had the choice, I think.  
   
 Q. Was it a challenge in '13 for you sitting around all day?  
ADAM SCOTT: It is, yeah. Even if you wake up at 9:00 you've got a lot of time to fill in before you can come out to the golf course. So I wasn't leading in '13, anyway, so it wasn't too bad. But I have played in the last groups in majors and it's a long wait to get to that first tee.   
   
 Q. How were things on the greens today?  
ADAM SCOTT: I tried to read the pace of the greens, I found them very slow. Maybe the slowest I've ever seen them here. And early on I just‑‑ I didn't have enough pace on putts and then I had too much pace, like the one on the 4th. I had a good putt, but it was too much pace for the line I picked.   
So I had my rhythm, but then I got it together on 10, 11, 12, 13, I made good putts and had good looks at 14 and 15.   
Hit a good putt on 14 and it just didn't do what I wanted, it moved off the edge.   
And then 15 I didn't hit a great putt. I blocked it a little bit.   
But it's a bit of a battle. I find the uphill is so slow and I kind of gave my putter for fast greens. So I hope they cut them short tomorrow.   
   
 Q. How tough was the lie in the bunker on 16?  
ADAM SCOTT: It wasn't good. I mean I pulled it off the slope. I wasn't really allowing for it to go that far left. And it was not an easy shot by any means. I don't think I would have got it inside ten feet with a good shot. But I just didn't allow for it to come out so far left and that's why I lost it down the slope.   
   
 Q. How far is too far at Augusta?  
ADAM SCOTT: Four, maybe. I don't know. I mean with this many people in there, I think four you feel like you've got a good chance tomorrow. Of course I have a chance, I'm playing, you never know. Can I shoot 61? I think it's possible the way the course is, especially with the pins tomorrow. But that's what I need to do. Probably‑‑ yeah, to be in with a chance, unless something dramatic happens.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT