THE 147TH OPEN
July 20, 2018
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Had a solid round.  How do you feel?  
ADAM SCOTT: I feel pretty good.  My game didn't feel great today.  Just didn't have the rhythm going this morning.  Didn't feel as good as yesterday.  But it's funny because I wanted to make that one on the last but didn't, and I missed a couple short putts early in the round and shot 1-under anyway.  So it's like maybe I'm playing better than I think, which is a good thing.  Hopefully, got my best stuff on the weekend.   
I'm going to have to have a really good round, you know, that 5-under round ideally tomorrow, and get myself somehow in this tournament.   
 Q.  You struck the ball so well and so many nice iron shots.  That must have given you a lot of confidence.  
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, it was more just off the tee, just -- you know, more along I didn't think it was the swing.  I kept hitting it right.  Sometimes I need to adjust and do it on the fly.  Can't completely trust it, but it wasn't too bad.   
It was just a shame to drop one on 15.  If I could have got it in at 2-under, I would have been fairly content with that.  But if I can get off to a good start tomorrow, you can really set yourself up for a good round if you have a few under on the front.   
Then it seems like in whatever conditions, just the back plays tougher.  You've just got to hang on.   
 Q.  You have Fanny Sunesson as a caddie this week.  How's that been going for you?  
ADAM SCOTT: It's been going great.  Fanny is, obviously, a fantastic caddie, and to be able to have that experience out there with me is certainly comforting.  We've gotten along really well.  She's picked up on my game quickly, and I think we think about things in a very similar way.  It's been really easy working with her the last five or six days that we've been here.  I'd like to be able to put her to the test a bit over the weekend, if we can get in contention.   
 Q.  If you look at the future, is it something you want to work longer with her, or is it just for this week?  
ADAM SCOTT: Well, it's just for this week.  It would be up to her, but I don't think she's making plans of a comeback.  I was being a bit opportunistic in contacting her and coaxing her out of retirement from caddying, I guess.  But I think she's having a good week.  We'll just take it one week at the moment.   
 Q.  If you compare her to other caddies, is she doing something different?  
ADAM SCOTT: Well, I can only compare to the caddies I've had.  Steve, obviously, is one of the best caddies, and Fanny's from that same breed, incredibly professional, experienced, leaving as little to chance as possible.  They're both the ultimate professionals when it comes to caddieing.  I guess, you know, that shows in their results over the years.   
I know they've caddied for great players, but they've managed to be there for a long time with the top players winning tournaments.   
 Q.  Going into the weekend of a big tournament like this, how much do you try and draw the Augusta experience?  
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, absolutely.  I mean, I think any player would draw on any positive experience they have.  Certainly, I've played a lot of good rounds of golf in majors over the weekend, particularly Augusta, but The Open as well.  I'm very clear when I need to do.  I'm going to have to have a good round tomorrow to put myself in with a real chance.  My game is good enough to do it.  It's just a matter of doing it.   
 Q.  Just give you an advantage to come up against the rest of the field.  Obviously, there's a lot of great players here.  
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, there's a lot of great players here.  I certainly think I have a lot of major experience, so maybe over some guys it does, but it's a long way out.  I definitely think there's a case for something like that when it comes down to the final nine holes.  If you've had that experience in the past versus having not had it, it makes a big difference.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT