THE 147TH OPEN
July 19, 2018
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ADAM SCOTT: I generally played better than the score.  But I hit a couple bad tee shots on the back nine and had to take drops.  That was kind of a little bit of my undoing.  Even par first round of a major is never a bad thing.  Everything felt pretty good.  I just really only hit one ordinary one and just misjudged by tee shot off 17 a little bit.  It was just a little wrong shot.  It wasn't a bad shot.  It was just too low and runny and fiery and didn't stop in time.   
It's going to happen out here, whether it's a bunker or a burn.  It's going to be very hard to avoid it all week.  So I'm pretty happy with how I played.  It felt pretty good.   
 Q.  Back nine looked like it was getting pretty tough.  
ADAM SCOTT: The wind was up, and it switched a little too.  The back nine is tough anyway.  There's just not a lot of opportunities, though 14 is.  Even though holes like 16 and 15 are downwind, it doesn't mean they play that much easier.  They may be slightly easier to make a par, but you can still make -- get yourself in trouble because your 5 iron is running at 280.  If it gets one wrong bounce, you're in the bunker.   
 Q.  It's a very fine line, isn't it?  
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, it's a very fine line.  It's not flat fairways either.  You really have to keep it on your line.  You really have to be precise coming downwind, too.   
 Q.  Did you have your strategy pretty much?  
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, it was good.  I played good.  Made a couple bogeys, but that was because of a couple poor shots.  Yeah, I'd love to have them back, but 71 overall, things worked out pretty good.  You know, had a couple chances around the turn to get it going, and I just didn't -- hit good putts, but it didn't go in.  Hopefully tomorrow I can get a few more to fall, get a few more good swings.  Four shots or better or something like that or whatever, depending on the conditions, but I feel like I'm in a good spot.   
 Q.  Is this the best you've felt in your game holistically for a while?  
ADAM SCOTT: Absolutely.  It's in a really good place.  It's just managing that level of expectation and getting the confidence up with results.  It's that balance.  I can be strutting as much as I want, but sometimes the real true confidence comes with the result, and I think I'm well on my way to that, and I'd like to have three really good rounds and see if I can come out on top this week.   
 Q.  And is it just a matter of being patient at the moment?  
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, a little bit.  It's just a matter of doing it, you know.  It's like just get up and hit a good shot, do it again and do it again.   
I had a putt on 14 today, and I hit a really nice putt from about seven feet, and I said to Fanny, that's one of those that you have to hit really good and confident, and I did, and I knocked it in the back.  And I thought, well, maybe I shouldn't do that on every one.  It's just like you've just got to do it.  Momentum is a big thing, and that putt on the last went my way, a few around the turn didn't.  But if they did, you're 3-under, and hang in there and shoot 4-under, and you're one off the lead.   
The game is right there.  It's always a fine line.  But I need it to go my way in order to do it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT