MASTERS TOURNAMENT
November 12, 2020
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Just kind of describe how the day was for you.   
ADAM SCOTT: Well, I got a little extra rest this morning, not having to get out there for my original tee time, so I had all morning to take it easy and get myself prepared before coming out and playing a few holes this afternoon. That went well, and now I've got to do the same kind of thing overnight and come out rested for a long day tomorrow.   
   
 Q. How do you kind of prepare tonight knowing that tomorrow is a long day?   
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, that's the thing; it's going to be one of those days. I know they're going to work very hard on firming up the greens a little bit. Hopefully no more rain to come. But with the course this soft, you can see it's attack mode and you want to get it going, and it's nice if you're out there for 27 holes in that kind of mindset. Hopefully I can take advantage of that. I'm sure no one is slowing up tomorrow and I can keep pace with the leaders.   
   
 Q. Did you watch any of the early play today and maybe change your game plan knowing it was going to be as soft as it was?   
ADAM SCOTT: I saw some early play, which is kind of a first that you had access to do that, which is great, see some putts, get some kind of idea of how the course is playing, but you just had to look at the scores and instantly change your mindset to know that it is Augusta National but it is attack mode. You're going to have to make a lot of birdies out there. You're going to have to get some putts to go in, aim at some flags and hit some good shots and you'll get rewarded.   
   
 Q. Did the ball stay in a spot on the green for you today that maybe it hasn't in the past?   
ADAM SCOTT: Probably‑‑ it plugged into the middle of a hill on 6 green, kind of not on the right but under the hole, and normally it would hop out and roll back another 15 feet. It was definitely showing signs that there had been a lot of water in the morning and even yesterday afternoon.   
   
 Q. Is going to sleep in the middle of a round different than going to sleep getting ready to start the next round?   
ADAM SCOTT: Honestly, I think I feel like I've done it so many times in my career. Maybe not so many here, but I can remember one year coming back to finish my Friday round on a Saturday morning here and things like that. But we're used to it.   
Also, it's been talked about for years, but guys do a lot of fitness now. It is a long course to walk, and when you're doing 27, it is helpful if you're in good shape in that no fatigue sets in and you can manage the next two days comfortably. Hopefully I'm up for that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT