AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 20, 2018
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ADAM SCOTT: I'll play next week and hopefully play really well and give myself a bit of a cushion so I can take a week or so off and try to prepare the best I can for the U.S. Open.   
 Q.  Adam, first of all, just get some comments on your final round, if we can.  
ADAM SCOTT: It was a good final round, bogey-free, 65.  Not much to really complain about and lots of good solid stuff out there.  I tried to make the most of really favorable conditions today and I did a pretty good job of it.  Just never really got a hot run going and, you know, I feel like I struggled on the weekend reading the greens well enough to really get it going but I think everyone but the leaders did that, too.  They're not the easiest greens to read.   
 Q.  Coming down the stretch, how cognizant were you of your position on the leaderboard as it pertained to the U.S. Open?  
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah.  I mean I was kind of hopeful to get up there a little bit more but I mean I don't even think it's going to get there now.  So, it's too easy out there, soft and got hundred yard wide fairways.  It's hard to get in trouble.   
 Q.  Overall, must be pleased with the way this week has gone for you, couple of 65s.  
ADAM SCOTT: Absolutely.  Yesterday was a bit disappointing because I played okay but I really let myself down on the greens but, generally speaking, the last two weeks I've played really great golf and obviously much closer to the form I'd like to see.   
So, hopefully, I can roll it into next week and get myself in contention.  I think that will be something fun to see where my game is at with when it really matters.   
 Q.  How much confidence do you have going into next week?  
ADAM SCOTT: I mean it played right into similar to TPC where you have to really play some good controlled golf and I think that's where my ball-striking, when it's good like it is at the moment, really stands out and I can pick the course apart and be very patient and not have to risk too much to get in the mix.   
And, having won there before, is always a nice feeling.  So, I hear it's in great shape.  I'm very excited about going back to Colonial.   
 Q.  Are you dealing with your schedule one week at a time at this point?  
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah.  Yeah.  I mean ideally I would have a great week next week and give myself a cushion.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT