THE PRESIDENTS CUP
September 26, 2017
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Being the veteran on this team, do you feel like an old codger with all these young guns?  
ADAM SCOTT: A little bit, I guess.  It's good to see a lot of young blood in the team and excitement levels are at an all-time high.  It's been a while since that was me in South Africa, so really that's a lot of inspiration for me coming this week, and feed off them a little bit, too, as much as I can give advice or whatever I'm meant to do as an old bloke.  For them to left me up, too, and make me feel young again is important.   
 Q.  We were talking to Nick before; obviously the record is not good.  This is eight for you and you haven't had a taste of a win yet.  How important for the Presidents Cup is it for you guys to win this thing and make the competition a little tighter?  
ADAM SCOTT: Well, I think at some point it's very important in the big picture.  I think Korea have kind of gone a long way to kind of rekindling some excitement from all aspects of the Cup.  I mean, I think that was a very exciting event, certainly as a player coming down to the last match on the last hole.  It had been five, six years probably since there was a close Cup, and I think surely people enjoyed watching that.  It definitely took a step in the right direction.  Just personally, it was a tough loss because for a moment there on Sunday I thought we might squeak out a victory, and not just for the Presidents Cup overall but certainly for me and the other guys on the international team who have been on a few losses now, it would have been nice to get a win.   
 Q.  Nick referred to the team room that Sunday night as pretty emotional.  What do you remember of that?  
ADAM SCOTT: I think so.  I mean, I think Nick really put a lot into that week.  I mean, he puts in a lot every week, but I know how much he put in leading in -- he probably thought it was the last time he was going to captain.  I think he put everything he had into it, and to come so close probably was a bit gutting for him.  But we quickly voiced our opinion that we think he should do it again.  He's worthy of captaining three times, and coming off the back of that, if he wanted to have another crack at it, we definitely wanted him out here.   
You know, I think for him to feel that from us on Sunday night obviously meant something to him if he mentioned it still.   
 Q.  Why is he so good, because you guys campaigned to have him back.  What makes him such a good captain?  
ADAM SCOTT: Well, Nick is such an incredible guy.  It's been documented his entire career.  An amazing champion, an amazing competitor.  You know, he's a very relaxed guy.  He can make anyone feel comfortable around him, and that's important for all players on the team.  But I think from my point of view, he learned so much from doing it the first time on how to manage his team, have a strategy, get the team to embrace it, just was a different level for me when he was in Korea than the time before and the captains before that, as well.  He really had a great plan and executed it.  When we didn't execute on the course, he had a backup plan for us.  He was really prepared, and I think he led so well.  That was my feeling; if he wanted to do it again, he was just really getting the hang of it.  So I'm excited about what he has in store for us this week.   
 Q.  How is your mindset this week different from how you approached this event in '03?  
ADAM SCOTT: Well, I didn't really know what was going on in '03.  I was just showing up and going to fit in -- I didn't know whether I would be playing matches or not and how I would feel.  I mean, and also a bit -- when you're young like that, you're not thinking about anything.  You're not worried about anything at all.  It's all good.  You're on the Presidents Cup team at 22 or 23 years old and everything is going well.  But now I've played so much, and it seems a bit of my role, as well, the last couple Cups has been to be a bit of a team room player for the guys and just make sure everyone is feeling comfortable.  Most teams, they have captains that are players.  I wouldn't necessarily say I'm the only one.  We've got an incredible assistant captain lineup this year, too, with experience, so I think overall the level of confidence, it's going to be easier for the younger guys this year.  There's plenty of guys for them to lean on.   
 Q.  Do you embrace the leadership role in the team room?  
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, I think I do because I know how important a role it is.  I mean, naturally I'm not going to force myself on to guys and tell them how I think they should play.  I don't know their games well enough.  But I think it's important that someone takes a position, a bit of a vocal position, not just the captains, and voice the opinion of the team or even myself and what's important.  I've seen a lot at this stuff, and someone has also going to be able to speak up to these very respected captains who might not be seeing exactly what the players are feeling sometimes, too.   
You know, someone has got to do it, and I've been fairly happy to fill that role the last couple of years.   
 Q.  For as many of these as you've been on for the international side, can you imagine and how impressive to you is what Mickelson has done between the Ryder Cup and these?  Obviously you have to be in form for all that time.  
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, it's just another thing that if you look down Phil's record as a golfer, I mean, sorry, it's not one of the first things that they'll write is how many Ryder Cup teams or Presidents Cup or 23 in a row, I think it is, but if you think about the longevity of form, then it starts becoming impressive because there won't be that many people ever that will play that many.  You know, and I think it's going to become harder and harder for players to play at the top level for long periods of time.  You're just seeing more and more young guys really performing high and less guys over 40 able to maintain golf at the top level.  It doesn't mean that you can't win big tournaments past 40, but to stay at the top week in, week out, it seemingly is getting tougher.  A record like that may never be touched.   
 Q.  Someone said earlier that obviously you guys are all competitors, you don't like to lose; how much does the losing in this event motivate you, and can it be a motivator, especially for some of you guys that have been around for a few of these?  
ADAM SCOTT: It's tough because if it was an individual thing, it would be a very huge motivator, if I just kept getting beaten, I'd really be struggling with that.  It's tough with a team, but I think that's the key thing for us is finding that team and getting everyone to dig deep, getting everyone who's not been here for eight losses or nine or whatever it is now, that they've got to feel that pain, and I think that they're fired up.  The good news is the guys who haven't been here, they haven't felt that, as well.  They're coming in as winners.  Anyone who is here is probably a winner -- they are, they've won something.  They're the best golfers from around the world, and that's the attitude they've got to take, and it's important that any of the past disappointments that myself or Nick or anyone else doesn't rub off on them.   
 Q.  You said that word pain.  Is that how you have felt at some of these?  
ADAM SCOTT: It is.  I mean, Korea was tough.  I was very invested in that with Nick and the assistants, and to be so close was very difficult.  I've played so many now with the same faces around.  I mean, it's starting for us -- I really feel that the International Team is starting to have a little Presidents Cup family.  I know the American guys, they play under the one flag and they play Ryder Cups and Presidents Cups, probably a little easier to feel that kind of bond, but it's getting to that point now where I think when you listen to how Nick feels about it, how much time he's invested in it with the support of the team and also myself playing a lot of times and being back around this year, it means a lot to the team.  We're starting to get that feeling like there's some history there with it, which is important.   
 Q.  The bonding you talked about that you guys would try to get early in this week, has that begun already Sunday night?  
ADAM SCOTT: Absolutely.  Look, it's very hard, too, we've got 12 guys, wives, caddies, assistants.  It's a big group of people.  Some guys come off a really big year with the TOUR Championship and a tough playoff event.  They're tired, too.  So making sure they're rested is important.  What happens in the team rooms and the words that come from the captains or anyone that speaks is so important that it resonates with the players because you can have someone come and entertain as much as you want or have a few drinks on a Sunday night, but it's really whatever time we have together, it's very important that it's meaningful time.   
 Q.  Not to diminish the talent that you guys obviously have on this team, but do you guys feel like underdogs given not necessarily the past record but as loaded and as deep as this U.S. Team is and particularly with the years a lot of these guys have had?  Do you feel like underdogs?  Is that something you can use?  
ADAM SCOTT: It's fair to say that.  I mean, I certainly don't think we're thinking of it like that, but whenever there's that situation, there's also pressure on the other team.   
 Q.  Can you use that to some degree?  
ADAM SCOTT: I think so.  You know, I think, look, the way I see it, it's just incredibly important that our team gets off to a fast start, whether it's the Presidents Cup or tiddlywinks.  The underdogs, if they're behind early, it's going to be tough for them.  We really need to get off to a great start, and the number one job for everyone who plays Thursday is to dig really deep and play like it's Sunday.   
 Q.  What do you expect the tee box, the atmosphere to be like on that tee box on Thursday?  
ADAM SCOTT: It's always fantastic, and I can see they've tried to move it up a little bit here this year, so I think we're in for a noisy start to the event.  This is the fun of the event, also.  This is what we want to do.  You've got to embrace that.  It's a little bit different, but incredible.  The crowd here is going to be maybe the noisiest crowd we'll ever hear.  We've got to enjoy that.  It's an amazing experience to be on this team, but then to do it here at this spectacular venue is going to be a memorable one for everyone.   
 Q.  Is there a feeling of optimism this year more than other years, and why could this year be different for you?  
ADAM SCOTT: Look, yeah, I think it's -- I think the optimism is growing.  Korea was a big turning point, but we went there optimistic, felt like things were in a good place.  The team was fresh.  It's fresh again this year I'd say.  These guys are buzzing.  They really wanted to be on this team, and that's the feeling.  I wouldn't say that it was diminishing, that feeling, for a while, because the international team, we didn't win, but then we didn't get anything good written or talked about us.  We were just pretty much overlooked quickly, and Ryder Cup and Europe and Team USA were what was talked about.  But I think even though we didn't win, we made a bit of a statement last year, at least to ourselves and at least to the rest of the international players about how important it is, and these guys have been busting it for two years to get on this team, and when you look at Jhonny Vegas or Emiliano and you talk to them, they are so pumped about this week, and that's refreshing to see.   
 Q.  Speaking of Jhonny, it looks like you might have him under your wing.  Is that the case, are you ready to sort of take him along?  
ADAM SCOTT: Well, he's had a great year.  I just need to maybe guide him a little bit.  But he's playing great.  I could see it was an important day for all the first-timers to get out there today.  Nick and Ernie and Geoff and Mike Weir, great players of the game watching them, they were probably unsure what matches they're going to play and want to impress, but after nine holes, he calmed down and played really nicely, so he should be confident.  He should know he can beat anyone over one round on that other team.   
 Q.  What is more fatiguing, playing a full playoff schedule and coming in here or having a newborn and a small child at home?  
ADAM SCOTT: I have to say the playoff, just in case my wife reads this.  It's hard work playing golf.   
 Q.  Do you feel invigorated, or was that time off as much --  
ADAM SCOTT: It was fantastic.  I mean, of course I don't want to be off during the Playoffs.  I miss any of those events.  But it really was fantastic.  These are times that I may never get again.  I missed the first -- well, I didn't miss, but I left after my daughter was born after 10 days, and I didn't see them for six weeks, so to spend some time with a newborn was fantastic, and it might not happen again, and it was nice to be home for a little bit, and it was also nice -- I really got to get away from the golf, too, because it's hard juggling both.  Your mind -- it was nice to just put my mind on the family for a couple weeks.   
 Q.  You've been back to Australia twice since the PGA, correct?  
ADAM SCOTT: Yes.   
 Q.  You went home, came back for the tournament --  
ADAM SCOTT: Yes.   
 Q.  How was your house in the Bahamas?  
ADAM SCOTT: Oh, it was fine.  It didn't really do anything --   
 Q.  Were you worried?  
ADAM SCOTT: A little bit, yeah.   
 Q.  This is obviously number eight or whatever it is.  Can you think ahead two years to Royal Melbourne and explain your desire to maybe be on that team again and what that venue and place is like?  
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, it's great.  I mean, look, you know, hopefully it's not a question of whether I'm going to be on that team.  I fully expect myself to be.  But it's just another motivator to keep at it, keep my game sharp and at the top of the free because I'd love to go back and play again there.  Why wouldn't you, playing at home at Royal Melbourne, it's a place every Aussie loves to play, and the experience in '11 was great, and I feel like so many things where the Presidents Cup has changed since '11.  Maybe, you know, we can start our run here and have another win at Royal Melbourne, and this is where the internationals turn it all around.   
 Q.  Would you like to play Charley in singles?  
ADAM SCOTT: That's been mentioned, between Charley and myself, yes.   
 Q.  And?  
ADAM SCOTT: No, absolutely.  Look, I'm happy to play anyone, but I did congratulate Chuck on getting in the team and mentioned that we might have to have a showdown, reminiscent of our days in college.   
 Q.  Since you have had a lot of time off, how are you feeling about your own game right now?  Any particular part you feel really strong about or weak?  
ADAM SCOTT: I feel my game is good.  I've really been a bit underdone this year.  It's been not my ideal year for preparation, but I've also had a lot of time to think about things and put everything into place where I want it.  You know, I've always seen the Presidents Cup, even -- it's a few times now I've come in off the back end of average seasons.  Even in Korea I was out after the first playoff event in 2015, and I showed up here with a new putter that I had not putted with for five and a half years, and to me the Presidents Cup is always -- I've left with a positive energy.  Even though we've not won, my personal takeaways were always positive.  I got a huge boost playing with Ernie in South Africa.  I got a huge boost, and soon after that won THE PLAYERS Championship and really drew on the Presidents Cup experience, playing really well in Korea and beating Rickie 6 & 5 or something on Sunday first time out with the short putter just really settled my -- any doubts or concerns I had about the switch back.  So there's always been positives even if I've not been in the best of form, and I fully expect that to happen again this week.  I like where my game is at.  I just need to play and practice a bit more like I had in the past, and unfortunately that wasn't this year.   
 Q.  What's new this week?  
ADAM SCOTT: What's new?   
 Q.  Other than not having Stevie, but I'm not sure that counts.  
ADAM SCOTT: There's nothing new, actually.  Just the same.   
 Q.  I know that he's on the other side, but what is it like to see Tiger back in a golf atmosphere, golf environment?  
ADAM SCOTT: It's really great, I think, for the game, but he -- even though he's off the golf course and not playing, that he still wants to be involved.  I wouldn't even question it if he said he didn't want to be.  I wouldn't think any less.  That would be completely fine, too.  But you know, it's such a boost to have him around.  I mean, I'm sure for the American team it's fantastic, but just generally for golf, it's fantastic that he is going to seemingly be involved in the game whether he's playing or not, and hopefully he's back playing again, but if not, then it's good that we have him around.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT