THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2017
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Getting ready for a barn storming final round on Sunday, Adam, at THE PLAYERS Championship.  And hopefully from 3-under you can make a run.
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, I was close today to getting myself right in it.  It would be great to finish 5-under.  I think I would be right there for tomorrow.  But you can get it going around here in a little better conditions than this.  But it's tough out there right now.  If I can play well tomorrow, get a few putts to roll in, and be right up there.
Q. (No Microphone.)
ADAM SCOTT: I putted really well again today, I've been putting well all week, just a tough one putting in real stiff wind on the last, on fast greens, it's hard to judge sometimes.  It's a shame not to make that, because that would have been a real bonus for me tomorrow.
Q. Played better off the tee?
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, no, I played well today.  So that was important.  Yesterday I was a bit all over the place.  In these conditions you really need to be in control.  So, it was relatively stress free, I wasn't in too much trouble out there, which was nice because it can get away from you on a day like today.
Q. (No Microphone.)
ADAM SCOTT: It is.  Yeah, I think there's no hiding from it.  I tried to do the smart thing on 16 and take my medicine and not go for it in two from an uncomfortable position.  Then I got a really huge gust as I was about to hit my third and I had to back off and I changed my mind and then made a six.  The par-5s are playing good this week, so I would like to maybe get a few back on them tomorrow.
Q. 1-under today, how do you assess your round given the winds out here today?
ADAM SCOTT: I'm very happy with that round.  I played well, it was fairly stress free, considering the conditions.  I would have loved to have been one or two better, but it's hard to complain about shooting under par when it's as blustery as it was out there.
Q. Earlier in the week we had you on and you talked about the 12th hole and you said you're going to go for it.  You did today.  But you still made par even though the days before you didn't go.
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, today it was only an iron to get on the green and I felt it was worth a shot.  If it rolls off and goes in the water you go got to work hard to chip and putt, but I wanted to maybe give myself that eagle opportunity and steal a shot or two on the field.  It didn't work out today, we'll see what happens when we get there tomorrow.  Hopefully I'm in position to make a smart decision.
Q. Now that you've kind of put yourself back in it and you've won out here before, what does a former PLAYERS champion do heading into Sunday?  How do you relax?
ADAM SCOTT: Well, I'm pretty relaxed, I'm not trying to win for the first time.  But I'm way back, so there's no pressure on me.  A good round out here early goes a long way.  If you get it in the clubhouse leading, it's hard to close out here.  So if I do play well tomorrow I've got that going for me, I don't have that kind of last group pressure and it will be nice to make a bit of a run and get myself into the mix.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT