THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2017
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Could have been a really good round you had a really good front nine.  Talk about the chase that you'll sort of have to go down tomorrow and obviously the wind will play a factor this afternoon of the?
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, I have some work to do tomorrow, but it was a good round of golf, I didn't play my way out of the tournament, I'm just going to need one of those great rounds tomorrow.  Go out and post something, I don't know how windy's it's going to be, but I need it not quite this windy, you need to be able to play a little bit.  It's hard to really get it going when it's as blustery as it is now.  So if I can get off to a quick start it will be nice to put myself in the mix, but it was nice to play solid today in this wind, relatively stress free.
Q. When you look at the leaderboard it's a list of guys that maybe don't have a lot of history here, is there something to be said for, because they redid the greens that maybe the institutional knowledge that players like to have, I mean are the greens a little different?
ADAM SCOTT: No, I think they have been so different so many years in the last 10 now when they first did it they struggled to get it how they wanted it and then they redid them again and they got a little better, but they kept softening slopes and I think they softened some more slope again now.  Yeah, it's slightly different.  I don't know how much experience and knowledge that takes away, but it's just general rule is the young guys are pretty hungry and coming out with a lot of game, probably more so than in the past.
Q. You know better than anyone that this tournament can change in a heartbeat, that must give you some confidence going into tomorrow.
ADAM SCOTT: Well, I can't rely on the other guys messing up, I got to rely on me playing really good.  Par-5s have kind of killed me this week and I'm looking to play them good tomorrow and that's one of the few ways to have a really good round is to hit a good shot at the right time and make an eagle and get things going.  So I'm looking for some good stuff, a few fireworks out there tomorrow and I think the game's in good enough shape to take it on, if I can get it in position.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT