THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 11, 2017
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. (No Microphone.)
ADAM SCOTT: I played some good golf out there and unfortunately not on the last two.  It happens.
Q. How do you balance the good with the bad on the last two, figuring that you were leading two holes ago?
ADAM SCOTT: It doesn't matter whether you're leading on the first day.  I'm in good shape, good first round, and hopefully get back up and have a better back nine early tomorrow morning and then work my way back up to the lead again.
Q. What happened on the shot on 17?  Was there anything there?
ADAM SCOTT: Just a slight mis-hit and it started cutting on the wind.  It was a bit -- I had to hit it good to be there and I just mis-hit it and it was pitched hole high right and spun back in the water.
Q. What was the decision on 18 to take on that second shot or was it -- what went into the thinking, what was the discussion on that?
ADAM SCOTT: I didn't have any other shot.  I dropped it into the worst lie you could imagine and I would have just chipped it outside ways into the water, I left it in the rough behind the trees, I just didn't believe there was any way I could go anywhere but there, go up over and have it cut a little bit, but it just didn't cut.
Q. Did the microphone guy stand on your ball?
ADAM SCOTT: No.  He just was in the wrong place.
Q. Your reaction to Sergio's shot?
ADAM SCOTT: Cool shot.  I mean, how good to have a hole-in-one there?  It's awesome.  Unfortunately, followed by rinsing it.
Q. It was tough to follow, I guess.
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, it was just a bad shot.
Q. Obviously last year, not a good start as well, do you have to get rid of some demons here?
ADAM SCOTT: If you play here enough, everyone in our group hit it over there, I ended up in a bad spot somehow.  I mean, it's a very, very tough shot, none of us hit any good shots and you got to get lucky and I didn't get lucky on 18.  If you play it long enough, you're going to have some good breaks over there and some bad ones.
Q. The silver lining is you're only three back at this point.
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, I'm playing good, playing with a good friend of mine, get myself back on pace with the lead and try and setup a good weekend.
Q. A lot of guys got traction at times, and kind of lost it at times, is that just the nature of just the way this course plays?
ADAM SCOTT: Yup, it's hard to stay out of trouble all day and it just depends where you want to get into trouble.  Obviously there's so much water here and there's no real easy recovery from the water.  I was left with some pretty tricky pitches to try and save bogeys and wasn't able to do it.
Q. Your putting was the best in the field today, that must give you some confidence especially with the morning round tomorrow and going into the weekend?
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, that's great.  The putter's been feeling okay, it's really been my ball striking that's dragged me down this year -- except at the Masters -- and I played really good today, solid, until just the last couple of holes.  But really I'm only disappointed with my wedge shot into 17, that's the only one I would really like to have back.  Dump it further up in the green and hit it a bit more solid and it might have been a different story at 18.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT