MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2017
Adam Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Think you're close enough?  
ADAM SCOTT: Is it three or four? Three? That's plenty close. I think I was two when I won. It's just the great players in front, and in conditions like this, if they're like this again tomorrow it's going to be hard, because you're going to have to make it happen. I'm just going to need the round of the year for me tomorrow.  
   
 Q. You hit so many greens, that must give you so much confidence knowing that's there tomorrow?  
ADAM SCOTT: Yeah, playing great. I putted beautifully today. A couple of my good putts somehow didn't drop and I better keep doing the same thing and tomorrow roll them all in. And if I can shoot 66 or 65 that's really possible out there, give me a chance.  
   
 Q. What have the 15 past Sundays taught you here?  
ADAM SCOTT: Well, I mean, it's cliché here at the Masters, but it all starts on the back nine. And for me in my position I just have to play a really good front nine, so I can start something on the back nine. But I'm going out there with no pressure tomorrow, playing really well tee to green, feeling good on the greens. I just have to piece together a smart front nine and keep myself there and you've got to get through 11, 12. But then 13, 14, 15, seeing Mickelson playing 5‑under, eagle, eagle, birdie, anything can happen. So it's really going to be an exciting day tomorrow.   
   
 Q. (Inaudible.)  
ADAM SCOTT: It was similar. I don't know. Two shots or three shots. And when you feel quite close to the lead it seems like that could just flip with a birdie and a bogey. I think conditions weren't quite as nice as this that Sunday, I don't know why. It didn't seem like‑‑ I'm not going to say easier, but it seemed easy today after what we've been through the last couple of days. So I think guys are‑‑ well, for me, I'm going to have to lean on my ball‑striking tomorrow, and hit it a couple of feet closer on a few holes to give me realistic chances a bit more often.  
   
 Q. What are the green speeds like compared to the last two days?  
ADAM SCOTT: They're probably quicker today, just a little bit quicker. They were a nice speed today.  
   
 Q. For you, Adam, how different was being back three shots with a quality field and scoring conditions versus guys on the top that you can discount and the conditions being much worse?  
ADAM SCOTT: Look, I think the pedigree in front of me is good. And I know with conditions like this, three or four of the guys are going to have good scores tomorrow. It's going to be hard for them to go out and shoot 66, 65. If they do, they deserve to win because they're also playing with the lead. And it's not easy to do, it seems, these days, to protect that lead. But that's where I have a little advantage to sneak up on them on the front nine, and then I only have to deal with nine holes of pressure.   
   
 Q. Yourself, Jordan Spieth, Charl Schwartzel have something in common, how much is that an advantage tomorrow?  
ADAM SCOTT: Well, I firmly believe that the past champions here develop a level of comfort, whether it's guys who are currently trying to play and win, Fred Couples manages to smooth it around here every year, and at 57. Larry Mize, battled‑‑ it has the same of looking after some of the past champions. And Jordan Spieth is a huge threat to this tournament.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT