WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: 1ST ROUND POOL A
March 9, 2017
Kim Jae Ho
In-Sik Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Korea - 11, Chinese Taipei - 8 (10)   
 Q.  Can you talk about what Oh Seung hwan in the ninth and tenth innings to help win the game for you?  
INSIK KIM: As a matter of fact, in the ninth inning, I planned that I would send Mr. Oh to the mound, but I wanted to have Lee Hyun seung first and then we would change the pitcher.  However, we started the game and Taiwan will fight back.   
So that's why I send Oh to the mound earlier than I expected, but I'm sorry for him because he pitched for two innings and except the intentional walk, I think he threw about 20 pitches.  I planned 20 pitches, but he planned more than 27.  However, the intentional walk was not part of the pitching number, so in total, the pitch count will be 23.  Anyway, I thank him for the victory.   
 Q.  You did a great job, but you mentioned that continuously this is the last time.  So you decided like that, as a manager, this is the last game?  
INSIK KIM: When I accept the first manager for the team, it was 2002 and it's been 15 years.  In between, there were many issues about the manager.  Many people provided their opinions.  In the Korean league, there are ten teams and there are ten managers, and they need to manage their own teams.  The teams accept their manager position, and in college, the managers feel a lot of pressure in accepting the manager position for the national team because it is a high responsibility.  That's why I've been a manager for the Team Korea for more than 15 years.   
Overall, I think there are many capable managers in the Korean league, but it entails a lot of pressure and that's why they do not want to accept the position.  So taking this opportunity, I would like to say that in the Korean baseball community, I think the media also needs to help together, so that we can have younger managers for the Korean team.   
Because there will be many more competitions in the future, and this year, after the regular season, we need to have another national team for the international competition.   
So taking this opportunity, I think I included younger players this time, and they learned a lot.  I believe they learned a great deal.  When they go back to their own team and when we have another national team, they will serve as a core part of the national team.   
 Q.  First of all, I would like congratulate you for the victory and as a captain, I think you felt a lot of burden.  As you know, low performance is the main issue, but other than that, there were controversies regarding players, and as a captain, I believe it bothers you.  So can you explain about your feeling?  
KIM JAE HO: Basically our performance, I believe our performance was not satisfiable for the fans.  That's why the feedback is fair and we were not satisfactory.  So in the future, I will make more effort with young players so that we can show better performance in the future.  I will also deliver many knowledge to younger players so that we can perform very well in the future.   
 Q.  We finished the fourth WBC, and as manager for the national team, what was the most exciting and what was the most regretful moment for you?  
INSIK KIM: As for the most enjoyable moment, in the first WBC, we met Derek Jeter, A Rod and many major leaguers.  During those games, I thought that whether we can compete with them, and whether we have the capability to compete with them, but on the field after hitting, Mr. Cha Ah seop (ph) hit the home run and I got confidence.  I thought they were unbreakable, but I realized that if we make an effort, we can beat them.  And at that time, we had good performance until we have the second place.  But we had a Japanese game, and at that time, we lost, and the Israeli game in this tournament, I believe the memory will last forever.   
In the second WBC when we lost in the final, the memory bothered me for more than a year.  I'm not sure whether I can forget about this defeat.  When I lay down in the nighttime, I think about the defeats.  So all the bad memories, it haunts me.   
 Q.  You also mentioned about the change of generation, so can you give a message for the next generation?  
INSIK KIM: For example, Lee Jung jin and Kim Jung young (ph) were good pitchers, but we have no good pitchers anymore.  Of course, I'm not saying that new players are not good enough.  We have a victory this night, but still, our pitchers are weak.   
Of course, the Taiwanese team fought really well but we failed in defense.  So that means our pitchers are weak, so in this tournament, we met Team Israel and Team Netherlands; their pitchers are not all good, but some of them are really good.  I believe we failed to hit the balls from the pitchers, so that was a reason why we were defeated and it also shows how it is important to have good pitchers, and in the future, we need to    I had lunch with new pitchers, Mr. Chang and Mr. Lee, and I said that you need to throw the inside ball very well and the speed should be at least 140 kilometer per hour.  The inside pitch is really hard to hit, even more the major leaguers.   
So I delivered this kind of knowledge to them, and through this game, I believe young players learned a lot.  In the future, when they grow up, and I believe they need to prepare for their game.   
 Q.  For a long time, you weren't a manager for the national team, so I believe you have special feelings about the Korean flag.  So can you explain what is the meaning of the Korean flag for you?  
INSIK KIM: When I accept the position, I told to the players, that when we have games in Korea, we have the national ceremony, and when we listen to the National Anthem, it is different from having it play in other countries and listening to the National Anthem in other countries.  There is a huge difference.   
So to the players I asked about this, and I talk about this, and I think I say that, they feel something in their mind when they listen to the National Anthem.  So having a good concept of the nation is important for me.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT