WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC POOL ONE: SAN DIEGO
March 15, 2009
Tae-Kyun Kim
In-Sik Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Good evening, welcome to the press conference following Game 2, Korea versus Mexico. Today from Team Korea, we have manager In Sik Kim, and first baseman, Tae Kyun Kim. I will ask the representatives to share their view of the game. 
 Mr. In Sik Kim, can you share your view of the game? 
 IN SIK KIM: We are very happy that we won the game. What I was concerned with was the pitchers playing very well, and the batters, and we had lucky home runs. And in the latter part, I think we won the game very easily. 
 TAE KYUN KIM: In the early part of the game, the first and second, I had a double play. I thought the game was going to be difficult, and then I tried to recover later, but all the previous batter in front of me made a chance for me and they did good batting. So I think we did pretty good. 

 Q. For both of you. Are you excited to be playing Japan again? 
 IN SIK KIM: Of course. In Tokyo, we lost one and we won one time. In San Diego here, we are going to have the game again, so in the most case we will play four or we finish by three times. But once we come here, we feel that Japanese is the strongest player, so we came to play with them. I think we have to do our best all the way through. That's all I think. 

 Q. I think you did a very good plan and everything worked very well and Tae Kyun Kim could you made a home run. Could you evaluate your strategy? 
 IN SIK KIM: Yes, at each moment, we thought we have to come up with a good strategy here. I put all the batters, and every one of them, I think they were successful, I believe. It was not really expected that way, much. 

 Q. I have question to manager Kim. Today, what was difficult? So many pitchers, you don't have to use them and you had to struggle with the pitchers, right? You had to struggle about the pitchers, you didn't have to use so many pitchers, you could have won without using so many pitchers, I think. 
 IN SIK KIM: Of course, we can use a smaller number of pitchers, or many of them, but when we went to first, the base there, we thought we were going to win, so I was going to use more pitchers than usual. Because tomorrow, we going to have to rest one day, so that's why we used a smaller number of batters and so on. 

 Q. Could you explain about the situation, everything came out nicely, the strategy, so what's your preparation for the game with Japan? I would like to hear about that. 
 IN SIK KIM: Hyunjin Ryu, he is a left-handed pitcher, but he didn't really hit that long ball, and he tried to give hard time for the pitchers, and he never got a strikeout. So we used him first as a first pitcher. We have been doing all many different games, so here it was natural grass, so we took care of all those things. We changed him in time for that. 
 Also as we change the innings, and then he made a home run as the first batter, so I was happy for that. 
 TAE KYUN KIM: Japanese teams are strong teams. Every time we play with them, we always want to win, and we are always excited and are concerned about that. Now we are going to meet the Japanese team many times. We should win over them and we have to do our best. And it appears we have a chance, we should not lose the chance they make for us. That's my plan for that part. 

 Q. The 7th inning, did you come up with how to bat against the pitchers? You played good today, and then as the manager, if there is a second player, who could that be? 
 IN SIK KIM: Double steal was the player in those bases, they did that by themselves, and they were successful on that. All the coaches, mostly we send the sign there, and they were a little bit slower in the motions. But the other team, they also have to have some pressure to prevent them from running from the place here. 
 I think from the point the player did a pretty good motions on that part. The second player, Bum Ho Lee. The two players are -- they happen to be belonging to the same place with me, so that's what we come up that way. 

 Q. Mr. Kim, your starting pitcher, when he got hit in the foot, was he hurt? And secondly, this is a hard park to hit home runs in. What was the key to that success? 
 TAE KYUN KIM: The starting pitcher, I think he had more than 50 pitches, so the balls start to become higher and then speed was coming down, so I determined to change the pitcher. In that home run process there, I think the other team, the way the pitchers were pitching, it was well hit by the player, so I think it was a pretty good ball for them to make the home run. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT