WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: 1ST ROUND POOL A
March 8, 2017
In-Sik Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Manager, overall, how do you see today's game?  
KIM IN SIK: First of all, of course we have the differences in the performance in pitching and hitting.  We have the hits, singles and doubles, but it was not led to the runs.  That was the difference between the Korean team, and the team Netherlands, I think.   
 Q.  You had two defeats and you continuously mentioned that this tournament will not be easy.  So did you expect two defeats?  
KIM IN SIK: The most important thing is today, Kim Jaeho and Yang Euiji was not in the start up.  New players were included such as Kim Ha-seong and Kim Taekyun, and of course we can see the differences among players, and those players were    I'm not saying that they are not good players.  Overall, we have weaker pitchers and weaker hitters.   
From the leadoff to the middle hitters to the end of the hitters, they were perfect.  That's why we were not able to make any runs, and the pitchers gave up hits and home runs.  The pitchers of the Netherlands team played grounders and the situation continued.  That's why we weren't able to get any runs.  So, obviously, we are behind in the skills.   
 Q.  Of course we can say this, but do you think the absence of the Major Leaguers, was that a problem?  
KIM IN SIK: When we consider the lineup such as Jung Ho Kang, Shin Soo Choo, and Hyun Soo Kim, Bung Ho Park, those players.  If we had them maybe including Dae ho Lee from the number three hitter to the number six hitters, it would have been better.  However, when we put this team together, we already knew that they were not available.   
So through these two games, for example, new players such as Tae Kyun Kim and Haseong Kim were included.  And I believe they felt and they learned and they now know that how other players are good, and they also saw the fielders movement and throwing and hitting.  I believe young players learned these new skills from other teams, and I hope they can grow more.   
 Q.  You said that the first round was your ultimate goal.  So we have only one game now.  Can you share with us about your impression?  
KIM IN SIK: I included Hyoung-Woo Choi at the end of the game.  The reason is if we had any chance, I can use Hyoung-Woo Choi as the pinch hitter, but there were no chances.  And for Euiji Yang and Jaeho Kim , I asked again at bench, and I think the conditions of those players were not the best situation.  So I was not able to change the players.  At the end of the game, Hyoung-Woo Choi was not in his best condition, so I just allowed him to play at the end of the game.   
Even though this is a National Team, many MLB players are not here.  So Korean teams worked together.  So it is also important to let them go back to their team without any injuries.  And the teams were very supportive.  So if players have injuries during this tournament, then they cannot have the players during the regular season.  It will be my responsibility.  So I thought about that.   
Anyways, from the beginning, of course, I'm regretful that we cannot have more Major Leaguers, but still as a manager, I need to manage the players and their conditions.   
 Q.  After yesterday's game, the middle hitters were very quiet.  That was very regretful.  So what is the reason for that?  
KIM IN SIK: It was because I think the pitchers from the other team was good.  They were really qualified pitchers, more than our pitchers.  As for the last games, I will do my best.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT