WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: ROUND TWO
March 12, 2006
In-Sik Kim
Seung-Youp Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  This question is for Seung Youp Lee.  You have four homers in the WBC.  Now you've had a real good series offensively.  Are you concerned people are going to try to pitch around you at this point and?  If they do how, do you think the offense will be able to adjust without your surge of power providing because -- you know, your homers have won two games for them now.  Basically how do you think it will affect the team if they pitch around you?  Thanks.   
 SEUNG YOUP LEE:  Just like my pitching tomorrow.  Tomorrow, my attitude will be the same.  I was not familiar with the pitchers so, I think I was trying to bat too strong and I think that was the problem.  So when I did that, I had some foul balls but, the one that I had a homerun, I was hitting rather lightly.  So I think the timing is more important than being strong batting.   
  
  Q.  My question is for Manager Kim.  In the sixth inning you brought in Dae Sung Koo to face Karim Garcia and, a lot of right-handed hitters from Mexico came up.  A lot of people in a one-run game, some people might find it surprising that you let a lefty like Koo face right-handed Mexican batters.  Can you just explain what your reasoning was for that?   
 MANAGER IN SIK KIM:  Well, you asking me what thought I had, but since I had to change in the sixth inning, well my, understanding is that Garcia used both right and left hands.  So well, regardless, Dae Sung Koo, the inning had to be done.  So that's why I decided to do that.   
  Q.  My question is for Manager Kim.  This WBC is taking place in three different countries, and my question well -- I have two-fold question.  USA is number two.  It's runner up in Pool B, and I understand that they were going to change the schedule, the Korean game and United States game, because they became runner up.  Also, today's game USA versus Japan, the home plate umpire changed the ruling.  All the umpires are from major league MLB.  So this is an international tournament, yet one country's nationality have all the umpires.  So I was wondering what you think about it and your impression on the overall operation of this WBC tournament.   
 MANAGER MANAGER IN SIK KIM:  Well, in a way I think it's not done very smoothly.  But overall I think the very first event, WBC event, I think the most important purpose of this event is to promote baseball worldwide, and I think that is our number one issue.   
 So I am doing my best to try to understand how they're doing and what they are doing.  And because this is the first time, I understand that there will be a trial and error.  I know there are schedule issues and broadcasting issues.  Perhaps they might have already received some broadcasting fee, and maybe that's why there's some broadcasting issues.   
 That's why they were trying to change the schedule.  And the question was -- and I was thinking that, What if this was taking place in our country?  How we, Korea, how we would be done.  How it would have been done differently.  What about issues with the umpire?   
 Well, I don't think it's my place to mention about the ruling done by the umpire.  Sometimes when you play the game you have a complaints, and you always think about your own team.  So if the decision is not for your team then you always have a complaint, but I think that, well, tough luck.  That's how I think.   
 But I just hope that the umpires trying to see very fair, in a fair manner, and accurately.  That's what I hope them to do.   
  
  Q.  My question is for manager Kim.  Today's game was a very difficult one.  In order to advance to semi-final, I believe that you had made a very wise decision in terms of switching pitchers, starting such as Dae Sung Koo, Tae Hyun Chung, and Chan Ho Park in the last inning.  And my question is:  If you would have done something differently, if there's something that you think, oh, maybe I should have done it differently, and this victory was very important in order for us to advance, and you still have to compete against the USA and Japan.  What is your future strategy?  Are you focusing your strategy on Japan or USA or both?   
 MANAGER MANAGER IN SIK KIM:  Well, we have to win one out of three games, and among three games we just won one.  So just one out of three.  But we have to win two out of three in order for us to advance to be in the semi-final.   
 And, well, for the next two games, rather than focusing on one country over the other, we just have to do our best.   
 I think that our pitching hands were very good.  The pitchers did an excellent job, and that's why we had our victory.   
  Q.  Would you have done something differently?    
 MANAGER MANAGER IN SIK KIM:  No, I don't think so.  No, the offense, I think we could have done a little bit better, but I think that the pitchers did a very good job.   
  
  Q.  I have three questions if you can answer briefly.  I understand that Tae Hyun Chong was not doing very well.  It was kind of risky with the game in San Diego doing the exhibition game.  But yet you did not use Byung Hyun Kim.  You kept using Tae Hyun Chong.  I was wondering why you did that?  Also, the reason why you used Tae Hyun Chong as an alternate pitcher, is it because you were not able to find other pitchers, like other than Tae Hyun Chong?   
 MANAGER MANAGER IN SIK KIM:  Well, in terms of increasing number of pitches, well, as it happened in Tokyo, it was not intentional.  And also you mentioned about Tae Hyun Chong even though he was not very good during the San Diego exhibition game.  Why did I use him?  Well, he does not have as much experience as Byung Hyun Kim, and Byung Hyun Kim has more powerful pitching.   
 Yet Tae Hyun Chong is very versatile player and he doesn't throw the long shots.  He throws short ball.  Like I said, he's very versatile.  Also why did I use Tae Hyun Chong for defense?  Well, if there you were two outs and no runners, it depends on the sequence of batting.  There was a strike bunt by Tae Hyun Chong, and that should not happen.  But we did, and that's why we allowed one run.   
  
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT