WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC POOL ONE: SAN DIEGO
March 19, 2009
In-Sik Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Good evening, welcome to the press conference, Japan versus Korea. Representing Team Korea, we have manager In Sik Kim. I will first ask him to share his view of the game. Manager Kim, please share your view of the game.   
 IN SIK KIM: Today, we didn't put great meaning to winning or losing.   
  
  Q. Manager Kim, I know you are disappointed with tonight's loss, but I would like to ask you about your team in general. Many of your players grew up together and have been playing with each other since they were 12 years old. How does that affect their play today and the teamwork that they show on the field?   
 IN SIK KIM: Of all those players, some of them didn't play the game. Today, I thought there were some players who didn't play the game. We were saving some of those pitchers who played in the winning games. It came out to be that way.   
  
  Q. Regarding the next round and Venezuela, what do you know about the team, and what's your approach to facing that club?   
 IN SIK KIM: Venezuela, many of them are major leaguers. They were lined up there, and the pitchers are very strong. And also in the major league teams there, each of them has an important position there. Most of them, they were there that way, so we didn't meet them directly, but we saw them through the TV different times.   
 Starting from April to October, every day we watch the major league teams playing. We have seen them many times. We know which player is what kind of a specialty and so on. But we don't know everyone in detail.   
 No matter what, we will do our best, and we will play with them all the way to the last minute.   
  
  Q. My question is, you can play maybe one or two games. I would like to hear from you if you have some game plan toward those two games.   
 IN SIK KIM: I will not change all the players selected for the game. Of course, the starter, Suk Min Yoon, he is here, that's it.   
  
  Q. You have been playing against the Japanese team so many times. Now you will face Venezuela for the first time. How will you play against Venezuela because you haven't played against them before? I don't know whether you can mention anything about it.   
 IN SIK KIM: That depends on the play at that moment. Instantly, I have to deal with it. So it's difficult for me to answer your question in detail. Of course those players are mostly -- they have long balls, I know that, Cabrera, Ordonez. These players are very good players, so our players will do their best to play with them.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT