WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC POOL ONE: SAN DIEGO
March 17, 2009
Jungkeun Bong
In-Sik Kim
Jin-Young Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Good evening, and welcome to the press conference following Game 4, Japan versus Korea. Representing Team Korea, we have team manager In Sik Kim, outfielder, Jin Young Lee, pitcher, Jungkeun Bong, and outfielder Yongkyu Lee.   
 Manager Kim, please share your view of the game.   
 IN SIK KIM: So I think it was very good to us. All the progress in the game could be said to be the first run is the game. But now we got the first three scores in the beginning inning. The other part was a little bit (indiscernible). Our team lead, I think, solidified the win. As a result of the game, I think we are very much satisfied.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Jin Young?   
 JIN YOUNG LEE: Today we had a game with Japan, and we were determined -- of the four teams that are here, and we are very happy about it. To play with Japan, we won once more, and I'm very happy with myself, and all the players are very happy about it.   
 THE MODERATOR: Jungkeun, please share your view of the game.   
 JUNGKEUN BONG: First, we are very happy that we are one of the four teams. I think that was as a result of the game today. I tried to make it my best. I think in the beginning, I had difficulty controlling the ball, but I think I had a very good ball. Throughout the 9th inning, we stated the best effort, and I think we got the good result like this.   
 THE MODERATOR: Yongkyu, please share your view.   
 YONGKYU LEE: As always, in Korea, in the big games, the important thing for the Korean team is to concentrating, and also concentrating to the baseball. I think that I recognize that throughout this world game that I realize that we have concentrated effort to baseball. Every player is happy about this. This is not the end of it. So there is more game left for us, and we will keep on doing our best.   
  
  Q. I congratulate you, each player, all of you play very well when we have Korea and Japan games. In the beginning, whether you intended to have a ball to the -- was there a plan for stealing?   
 JIN YOUNG LEE: The pitcher has a fast ball and a very good ball, and he's the best pitcher in Japan. I watched him through the TV, and analyzing the strategy, he threw a good ball on that day. So I thought he was throwing the ball to the outside way, and as a left hander. So I think I focused toward that. I think that came through the hit, I think.   
 YONGKYU LEE: As I went out on the field, I run timely, that was the first ball, and I was prepared for it. My start was very, very good.   
  
  Q. Congratulations, manager. I have two questions. Now you think this is it? I would like to hear about the winning. Also, I know that you have changed many players. They said you did a very good job to replace all players. I would like to hear about that.   
 IN SIK KIM: The process is when I had an additional score, I thought we were going to win this game. As we come to the double play, few times, I think probably is unfortunate thing for the Japanese team, I think. In 9th inning, too, the hit, and the first base ground ball, then tag in player along the line. He caught the ball, and he did very good job, and he did not resend the runner into third. And he was running, that's why they could get him out.   
 At that moment, I felt we were going to win. That was the decisive point, I think. Of course, the pitchers did a very good job themselves.   
 About the replacement of represented players, most of the players now, they were committed for the Beijing games. Two people were supplemented, and later Shin Soo Choo was added there. In the future, after four years, the young people of today will develop their role, I believe. Then I think they will be a better team, I believe.   
  
  Q. I congratulate you. You play the game three years ago, and at that time, you play with Japan. What's your feeling about playing with Japan three years ago and this time? We would like to hear your opinion about the difference you felt.   
 JIN YOUNG LEE: In the first case, Japan was one level higher than the Korean team, and also players thought that way. However, once we started the game with Japan, Korean players think always they have to win the game. So it was a good score, I think.   
 In this case, I think it started from the Olympic Games. We won and we came up to this point here. I think we are at the same level, and I think they are our rival, and we thought we should win this game. That's our preparedness in our mind.   
 JUNGKEUN BONG: In the first time, the Japanese players were some major league players, but through the three times of games, we won twice and lost once. Of course, Japan had the high level of techniques, but in the year, I think also our spiritual strength was stronger. So we had unified effort such that I think we had a good -- today, after three years, new team from Japan, they have more number of major league players on the team. Also, team was the longest individual players having their techniques one level higher than us.   
 But this team here had a very good -- I think in the individual cases, we were probably a little lower than them, but the speed and our body was smaller than them, but we didn't really -- we hit home run, and we did our best hit, and so on. Out of this result, we came to be one of the four teams.   
  
  Q. First of all, you have made the final, congratulations. That means more to you because you beat Japan, or because you are the best of the finals? And Yongkyu, I have a question. First hit and then subsequent steal, first hit, were you trying to hit to your left? And also when you did the steal, did you think you were going to get a sign to steal the base?   
 IN SIK KIM: Could you repeat the question one more time?   
  
  Q. To advance to the semifinals versus that you beat Japan, which means more to you?   
 IN SIK KIM: I didn't understand the question that well, but, however, the most important thing is we became one of the four teams. That's very important. Of course, of the performance, in terms of performance, I think Japan can be counted as a higher level than us. But in that game, it doesn't mean that they always win. Even though they are higher level of skill, sometimes they lose the game. Most important thing is -- the important thing is we got the winning the first time and we became one of the four semifinal games and that make us happy.   
 YONGKYU LEE: One more time, please?   
  
  Q. (Speaking Korean).   
 YONGKYU lee: Once the sign came in from the dugout and when the pitcher was throwing the ball, instead of thinking that I should run, I already started once the time comes in. But I think in the beginning, the time came, and I ran with my confidence, and I think it came out to be very good result.   
 IN SIK KIM: I will supplement the answer. Yongkyu player does -- is one of the players who runs on the green light.   
  
  Q. You are a major league pitcher, a very good pitcher. However, the Japanese can defend against your pitcher, but as today's player, how did you change your standing toward the Japan and how did you prepare for Ichiro?   
 JUNGKEUN BONG: First of all, the first important thing is I trust myself. March 9 in Japan my condition, body condition was very good. And (indiscernible) led me as a catcher, and I kept the ball. And the result was very good. And this time, I knew that in the analysis, I think I study a lot. And I was also very much nervous about that.   
 I think today, I had more number, the speed of the ball was more than in Japan. Sometimes I throw the change-up, and then I could catch the grounded ball. I think that way we can get double play. I think that was the very good result in the game.   
  
  Q. Now that you're in the semifinals, how much attention are you going to pay to the other teams in the pool? Are you going to pay more attention to Venezuela and United States now that you're going to have to face them?   
 IN SIK KIM: The most important thing is at each game, we have to deal with them. And each time in the game plan, we have to do our best. That's about it, what we can do. Of course now all the games in that place there, we were watching them through the TV. But as for us, there are many players coming in that round there. So I think two teams will come up from that area as far as we concerned. I think they are a little bit difficult for us, I believe.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT