HNA OPEN DE FRANCE
June 29, 2017
Nathan Kimsey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. It's a great round for you.  Putter went a little cold on the back nine.
NATHAN KIMSEY: Yeah, you say it went cold but it was super hot on the front nine, so I couldn't have expected that kind of amount of putts to keep dropping all day.
Yeah, obviously it was a frustrating start, sort of missing a few, but sort of yeah, really make sure I had a good read on the last and rolled in a nice one to finish.
Q. Scoring four birdies in a row on this course is no mean feat.
NATHAN KIMSEY: No, it's not.  Especially on the back nine.  Obviously there's a bunch of tough holes coming in and I was just holing -- I hit some decent shots in but I was just holing long putts.  It's just one of them, seeing the reads really well and pace was perfect.
Q. You came through Q-School and had a great performance in Qatar.  Where does this round of golf rank so far this season?
NATHAN KIMSEY: It's definitely up there as one of the best.  Obviously Qatar, I had a good couple of rounds there.  Just I think this one, like the fact that I've not played so good the last few events, and sort of come here to obviously a tough golf course, and sort of managed to put a good score together, I think this is pretty much up there as the best so far, yeah.
Q. Does it help that you're playing this golf course for the first time, so you're going a little bit blind and not put be too much expectation on?
NATHAN KIMSEY: I think so.  I've watched a lot on TV over the years, so obviously sort of knew the reputation of the golf course and how tough it was.  But yeah, coming here for the first time, yeah, you're just obviously trying to feel your way around and not get into too much trouble out there.
Q. You were 2-under through the final four holes, which were ranked as four of the toughest holes in golf.  That must be very pleasing.
NATHAN KIMSEY: Yeah, like I said, I was hitting some solid shots into the greens and holing some long putts.  Had a few go in in a row and managed to make a few birdies on the tough holes which helps the round out a lot.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT