OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 24, 2020
Robert Karlsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You added a round of 68 to yesterday's 69. What's been the secret to success so far?  
ROBERT KARLSSON: Yesterday on a very tough day I kept the ball in play and when I missed I was a little bit lucky, I hit it in the fairway bunkers instead of the rough. And I holed a lot of important putts yesterday. Today I actually I put the ball -- I hit more fairways today and it was obviously much nicer weather, so today you can do a good score, but I played nicely today.   
 Q.  You're part of the Players' Committee. You responded to player requests having had a low cut here a couple of years ago -- 5-under I think it was -- to make this place tougher. Certainly done that, are you pleased with the way it's coming come out, is it actually the way you wanted it?  
ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, I mean the tricky thing is we had a couple of years where they set it up a little bit nicer around the greens, with less rough, we want to have more runoff areas and now we don't have any wind. And the cut goes way down and the players don't like it. And I think players want to have a bit of a tougher conditions and I'm very, very happy the way that they set it up. That's been my personal response from the players. The problem on this golf course is there's a lot of doglegs where you cut across, so it's really hard to hit fairways on holes like 1 and 6 and 18. But everybody knows it and you play for it, so, but I like it.   
 Q.  You turn 50 in September, you qualified for the Champions Tour over in America, you're eligible to play this TOUR here, you've also got Ryder Cup responsibilities as a vice captain. How do you balance all that, where are you going to play?  
ROBERT KARLSSON: This might be the last one here this year, so we'll see. I'm going to go and play the PGA Champions Tour after this starting in the Chubb Classic in February. So my focus is going to be to play there. And then obviously I'm going to have a lot of talking to do with reporting regarding the Ryder Cup. And we'll see what happens come this summer and before, but obviously Ryder Cup is a huge thing. But it's a very, it's a much lesser work for me now having an away game compared to a home game. Last year we need to understand their team and our team and how we're going to set up the golf course. Now that's their job. So we're just going to have to kind of figure out how they're going to set it up for when it's time to get our picks. But apart from that it's more trying to build relationships with the players and play with them.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT