MERCEDES-BENZ CHAMPIONSHIP IN COLOGNE
September 14, 2008
Robert Karlsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT










 KLAUS WAESCHLE: Congratulations Robert Karlsson, winner of the Mercedes-Benz Championship 2008. How was it out on the course today? 
 ROBERT KARLSSON: It was really good. I really, really appreciate just playing this golf course. It's in great condition, and today it was a bit windy as well so, it was a bit trickier, so it was good.

 Q. You came under quite severe pressure at the end from Francesco, four birdies in a row; just the pressure you would want?
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Well, it would have been nice not to have it but when it happens you just have to try to raise to the challenge. I tried to just do my own thing but it's not so easy when he's holing putts from 40 feet from over hole but he played great, and at the end of the day, it wasn't enough. 

 Q. We've been looking at the results this year, you've done everything this year but win; so how nice is it to have a win to take to Valhalla?
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Obviously it's very nice to do it. I mean, it's great. It's a great relief to have it done. It would have been felt a bit strange to walk off this season without a win because I played so well. But sometimes it happens and sometimes not. So I guess that you have to learn from whatever happens. 

 Q. Can you just talk about the last few holes, what was going through your mind, especially perhaps after 16 when he got within two shots?
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, I just tried to put the ball in the fairway on 17 and to give myself a chance birdie putt. And when I did that, and he missed his putt on 17 and gave me a little bit of a cushion. 
 But yeah, I kept thinking, he can't keep making birdies but he played fantastic the last seven or eight holes and every credit. He got closer than maybe necessary, but at the same time I felt like I couldn't really do too much other stuff. I mean, I made a couple of mistakes in the beginning, but all in all it was a fairly good round. 

 Q. How pleased do you think Nick Faldo will be with the fact that you four guys came out here, you won, Miguel finished eighth, Søren eighth and Graeme 16th? 
 ROBERT KARLSSON: I don't know. I will ask him. 

 Q. I'm sure he'll be delighted. 
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, hopefully. It was pretty good results for us. I think most guys played pretty well recently. 

 Q. The way it all materialised on the back nine, that's the sort of pressure you'll come up against this week in The Ryder Cup because he was your playing partner. 
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, definitely, these are things that you have to learn from and the more times that you put yourself in that situation -- especially having a redraw in the first day, I played in the last group three days in a row. You definitely learn to do this and grow from every experience. 

 Q. Is taking off some time from golf good for you? 
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Definitely. (Laughter).

 Q. How do you get back to the swing? Is it easy for you or is it hard?
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Well, you have to trust that you have it. It's going to be a little bit rusty. I didn't hit great tee shots up until today when I actually drove the ball well. But it was a bit rusty early on in the week but I worked quite a bit last week on short game and putting and that was a big key for this week. 
 You can't have it all. You can't be practise and rest at the same time. You just can't do it. You have to take your time off and let the body rest, and especially after being so many years on Tour as I have, the body needs a bit of extra rest, so feels good. 

 Q. Can I ask you to explain to us again why you wear red on Sundays? 
 ROBERT KARLSSON: I always have actually for a long time. It has nothing to do with Tiger. It feels good. It feels good to wear red on Sunday. I have a bit of a different colour than he has. He has a deeper colour and I have a brighter colour, but it seems to be a winning colour. 
 KLAUS WAESCHLE: Besides the prize money, you get a beautiful car; what will you do with it.
 ROBERT KARLSSON: I will actually keep it I think. I actually have my car in Monaco for sale. I put it up for sale Monday, it's true. Mercedes is going to be so happy. 
 KLAUS WAESCHLE: Thank you very much and once again, congratulations, Robert, and we hope to see you next year again. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT