MERCEDES-BENZ CHAMPIONSHIP IN COLOGNE
September 13, 2008
Robert Karlsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT










 KLAUS WAESCHLE: Well, Robert there, were some discussions, it took some time since you signed your scorecard. Could you explain first of course what happened.
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, on the second hole, I was over the ball, but I had not put the clubs and addressed it right behind the ball. I always address it a little bit on the toe so I'm not really ready to go. So the ball moved, and I thought there wouldn't be any penalty because I had not addressed it. But it's actually enough when the putter is on the ground, and it was definitely on the ground, so not much to really talk about. It was definitely a one-shot penalty, and there we go. 

 Q. It's definitely a one-shot penalty; was there any discussion that it was a two, or what was the discussions going on? 
 ROBERT KARLSSON: No. Because the movement was minor and the very circumstances, you don't really need to put the ball back because it's such a minor movement. You obviously mark it again, which I did, but it's just a one-shot. 

 Q. Just to clarify, when the ball moved, you had moved it back to the spot where it moved from?
 ROBERT KARLSSON: No, I didn't.

 Q. That's where the penalty lies? 
 ROBERT KARLSSON: No, because the putter was on the ground. And it's enough for the putter to be on the ground for it to be a penalty. I thought it had to be addressed but it didn't. 

 Q. Fair to say something like this leaves a sour taste in your mouth?
 ROBERT KARLSSON: At the moment, two shots would have been painful, but I mean, it happens when the ball moves, and you know, that's just a part of the game, and I'm really, really happy it wasn't a two or a disqualification.

 Q. What were the discussions when Peter Hanson went back on to the course with you?
 ROBERT KARLSSON: No, he went to the tee, because he questioned whether the putter was on the ground or not. But I was pretty sure that the putter was on the ground, and it was, so that was the question. 
 But yeah, my mistake is that I misunderstood what needed to be done. I thought it was -- you had to be addressed but it's not. The putter was on the ground. And there was a picture, it's a bit hard to see, but I know how I do it, and the putter in that situation is on the ground, I know that.

 Q. Had this cropped up during the round when you initially played the hole?
 ROBERT KARLSSON: No, McFee said that unless it was other circumstances -- it was either a one-shot penalty or nothing, depending, I wouldn't say definitely a one-shot penalty. It's up to where you want to -- because it's not totally clear if the putter is on the ground or not. But I know my routine, and it would be in that situation. He said: "I left you out there because I knew it was either nothing or a one-shot penalty." So that's why he didn't do anything. It was actually good that he didn't. 

 Q. You had discussed it while you were playing the second hole?
 ROBERT KARLSSON: With a different referee. Because I had not addressed the ball and he said, okay, just play from where it is. 

 Q. You're still leading the tournament, albeit now by three shots, but you must be delighted; and also to be heading to Valhalla with a victory on your belt, which would be nice. 
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Well, it's another day tomorrow and I'm really, really happy with the way things are going. Still, this tournament is also a part of getting prepared for next week. 
 So having a three-shot lead, and the most important thing here is after a three-week layoff to start again and get going, and with a three-shot lead, it's not bad. 

 Q. With about ten, 20 minutes left to play in the round, you were five clear, bogey on the last; that, and the penalty, how do you approach tomorrow? Do you shake it off and think -- is that very frustrating? Do you just think, "I'm three in front?" 
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, I've played this golf course, I'm 12-under and that's the way I'm looking at what I have done which is the most important thing. Tomorrow is just to keep going. There's a lot of -- I mean, obviously it would be great to have a seven-shot lead, but it's not. 
 So I'll just go out and try to keep doing what I'm doing, and that's what I'm here for. I would have been happy with a one-shot lead, as well. 

 Q. When are you going to go to the States, and would you consider this tournament as a final rehearsal for The Ryder Cup?
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, going to be going to the States on Monday with the whole team. I'm playing flying out of here tomorrow night as soon as we're finished and flying from London to Louisville on Monday. 
 Yeah, this is a little bit of a final rehearsal but also, as I said, I've just had three weeks off, so it's important to get going in. It's a bit of a final rehearsal and it's great the way the course is set up. It's playing a bit like Valhalla, very long and not a lot of rough on the greens, but unfortunately a bit too wet but that's how things happen. 

 Q. Just to clarify, your layoff was due to an injury or chicken pox? 
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Neither. I played quite a bit and I played a lot before and I played quite well, so it was time for a break. When you play a lot, you feel small things in the body, so I decided to take an extra week off, and there was nothing else. But during the time, my kids had chicken pox but it didn't really make a difference for me. 

 Q. When you made some exercises on the last tee, that doesn't mean that something hurts you? 
 ROBERT KARLSSON: No. 

 Q. It just loosening, stretching? 
 ROBERT KARLSSON: You know, at my age, you need to keep loose, you know. (Laughter).
 KLAUS WAESCHLE: Thank you for coming in. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT