MERCEDES-BENZ CHAMPIONSHIP IN COLOGNE
September 12, 2008
Robert Karlsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 


 KLAUS WAESCHLE: Welcome Robert Karlsson the second day leader at the Mercedes-Benz Championship 2008. I think it has been two totally different days, yesterday and today.  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yes, you could say that.   
 KLAUS WAESCHLE: How did you feel today.  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: It's important to forget about yesterday and how we played yesterday, and I mean, I've been here a number of years, so I have played in similar weather to this before anyway.   
 But it's good to learn to adapt from one day to another, so try to take it as a new challenge and don't get caught up in the rain, especially getting warmed up.   
  
  Q. How bad was it when you were warming up, and did it ease off when you started?   
 ROBERT KARLSSON: It was a bit on and off when we started playing, but when we warmed up, it didn't look good because there's quite a lot of water in the bunker where we are the practised and it started filling up in the chipping areas and you're thinking, is this the way it looks on the golf course; don't want to have too much rain.   
 It was close I thought, but got away with it. I think probably we -- probably we had the best part of the day weather-wise. We definitely had the wettest course, but weather-wise, I think we were better off than the guys in the morning.  
  
  Q. How pleased were you to add a decent score to your score of yesterday?   
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, obviously extremely happy with that, especially to keep playing in the last group is always a little bit different to do that. It's great to be sort of a little bit more sort of under pressure. It's a little bit more attention around there, so it's great. I mean, you just have to be more and more in those situations and get even better at it.   
  
  Q. It's been a season of brilliant play from you, but there have been near misses. How important is this weekend going to be to you?   
 ROBERT KARLSSON: It is as important as all of the other weekends. The most important thing is to keep playing the way I'm doing and keep building on all of the things I'm doing good.   
 Then if the win comes, it comes, and if not, there are other years, so it's important not to get too caught up in it, even though it would be great to have two or three wins.   
 But when you're not winning, you have to learn something, because you're not there yet. I mean, I can say quite simply a number of tournaments where I sort of -- where I haven't done what I should do in one round here or there, and if not, someone else will do it.  
  
  Q. Getting back to what you said about the condition of the course, there have been a number of players finishing before you that were critical; would you support that, as well?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Well, I don't want to complain about it. I definitely had a couple of times where I think I had one ball where I think it was a bit muddy on it. It's always a difficult decision to them. I talked to the weather guy in the morning, and they were not expecting this much rain. It's easy afterwards to say it should have been different, but they couldn't take the decision afterwards. They had to do it before. Yes, it was close.   
  
  Q. You said before that you played several courses this year already who would not take so much rain in the conditions like this.  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, we played a number of years ago and had big problems with the rain and you can see this year what great work and how much changes are in the drainage they put in and how much difference it makes. It's actually great to see.   
  
  Q. I know you don't really want to talk too much about The Ryder Cup and you prefer to talk about this week, but this form is very timely especially after a break like you've had, yours and Søren Hansen who has had ten birdies today.   
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Oh, great. Yeah, always when you have a little bit of a break, you don't really know where you're coming back from. I'm extremely happy with the way I'm playing this week. I'm really happy with the sharpness of the short game and the sharpness of the putting.   
 Yeah, obviously it's great at the halfway stage of this tournament to be the top player and get more and more practise to be under the gun, and that's good for next week, as well. It's so much of a better feeling for myself to go into next week that you have a decent -- that you can control what you're doing.   
  
  Q. As a follow-up, can you honestly say that you're not sort of thinking a little bit about next week? Are you totally focused on this?   
 ROBERT KARLSSON: When you've played one Ryder Cup, every Ryder Cup year it will be in the back of your mind; you want to come back there. And when you're in there, of course you're looking forward to the next week.   
 But at least when I'm on the course now, it's almost like it's helping a little bit. I know if things aren't going extremely well this week, well, I know I have something fantastic to look forward to. So it almost takes a little bit of pressure off this week, if you put it that way, because I know next week will be extremely fun.   
  
  Q. And that's because you've played in previous Ryder Cups.   
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, when you've played in one, you want to come back, that's for sure.   
 KLAUS WAESCHLE: Thank you very much, Robert.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT