MERCEDES-BENZ CHAMPIONSHIP IN COLOGNE
September 11, 2008
Robert Karlsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT










 SCOTT CROCKETT: Thank you for coming in and joining us, as always. I suppose for a man who is injury-stricken and on the verge of missing The Ryder Cup, you've answered all those questions pretty forcefully, haven't you, and obviously you're in the peak of health and there's nothing wrong with you at all. 
 ROBERT KARLSSON: I took a week off after playing a lot in the summer and even the small things like every golfer has is coming up a little bit and there was never any injuries and I never had any treatments over the three weeks, and so everything has been fine the whole time. I've just enjoyed three weeks with the family, so it was great. 
 SCOTT CROCKETT: Now that we've put that to bed, we can talk about your performance today, which was excellent. You must be very pleased.
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Very happy. I had two weeks completely off golf, and then I practised a bit last week. But kids having chicken pox and stuff, didn't do so much, and my practise wasn't so much, so coming out this way, it was great. 
 SCOTT CROCKETT: We'll take your details before we go into questions. You birdied the first? 
 ROBERT KARLSSON: I hit 5-wood and a wedge to two feet. 
 2, I hit it left in the trap off the tee and couldn't reach. I hit a good chip but I missed probably from six feet. 
 The short hole, 7-iron to ten feet. 
 7, driver 4-iron over the back just chip and one putt.
 3-wood to 25 feet on 8. 
 9, I hit it just left of the green and 3-putted.
 13, driver and a 5-wood, chipped to two feet. 
 15, 3-wood and a 5-wood, chip to one foot.
 17, 3-wood and gap wedge, probably 20 feet. 

 Q. Is it hard to get going again after three weeks off?
ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, it would be if it happens, but mainly I'm here to get going again after three weeks off. But this is one separate tournament and I'm here focusing on this one now, even though in the back of my mind, I'm obviously looking forward to next week but now it's this week, and I mean, it's a great course to play and it's set up very well, and probably a bit like what we are going to play next week, so it's great. Quick greens and a bit of rough around them. 

 Q. Pleased to get some form going considering next week?
ROBERT KARLSSON: I was struggling with the putting over the summer so I was really happy that I got that going. I worked with it quite a bit last week, so the focus was getting a bit more friendly with the putter and so far, so good. 

 Q. Was there a concern that you would be able to come back or that it might take a while to find your form?
 ROBERT KARLSSON: I'm actually quite good at getting back, as long as I don't get too caught up in having three weeks off. It's more of a mental thing if I can just sort of relax. I'm usually quite good at getting back quickly. 

 Q. I don't know if you've been asked this before, but when you had the time off and things were going on at Gleneagles, were you taking a big interest in what was happening there?
 ROBERT KARLSSON: I saw the press conference, and that was about it. I saw and I checked a little bit on the list if there was any big movements, but I saw the press conference.

 Q. Was it quite nice to know that you didn't have to worry about any of that and that you were outside?
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, definitely. 

 Q. Have you had chicken pox?
 ROBERT KARLSSON: I have, don't worry about it. (Laughter).

 Q. Putting next week to the back of your mind, it is as you say an important tournament you'd I'm sure like to win, but it must be in the back of your mind knowing that you're flying out Monday and everything starts from there?
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, I'm happy having another few days to play and I'm really focused on doing that this time. 
 I did play the last Ryder Cup, even though it's been very different playing in a way, I sort of know what's going to happen, so I'm pretty comfortable with that and don't have too many thoughts about that. 
 Obviously I'm looking forward to it. But it feels good to have another three days to play. So I'm not getting too much ahead of that because it feels like I need these three days first. 
 SCOTT CROCKETT: Thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT