PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2008
Robert Karlsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How do you like the team itself? This team again looks very tough to beat.   
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, it's quite interesting the way it's shaping up now. Especially I don't know how Justin Rose is doing today but he's one of the guys who has a chance to play his way in. If Sergio, obviously he's the most likely to do it, if he doesn't fall apart, and Poulter and Rose play their way in, and then the wild cards are up to Nick to pick pretty much who he wants.  
 If those guys are outside, you sort of almost have to pick them. It will be almost easier for Nick if they play their way in and it can free him up and he can do extra with the wild cards.  
  
  Q. How do you feel about this team coming up for you personally?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Good, good. It's a very strong team. Hopefully we're going to have a couple of newcomers. But I mean, it's going to be a very strong team. It's going to be many of the same guy who is played the last couple of Ryder Cups.   
  
  Q. How will Nick keep you loose?   
 ROBERT KARLSSON: It's kind of interesting to see what it's like. I haven't talked to him much, but we had sort of a team meeting or the guys who were close to the team as The Match Play and he's been here working. I haven't seen him much but when we come up to it, I'm sure he's going to be very professional and a great captain.  
  
  Q. How will Tiger not being there affect The Ryder Cup?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Who knows? Obviously to not have the guy who had the most points in the last Ryder Cup on the team obviously is going to make it play-wise a little bit weaker, if you look at it that way. At the same time, if you take out one of the real big, big superstars, the chemistry of the team will change. If it's going to change for the better or the worse, we'll see, but it's up to the other guys to step up and see what happens.  
  
  Q. Who is the pressure on? Are you guys the favorites going in?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: I would think it would be a little more even if you look in the World Rankings. If you look on the rankings, our team would be a little bit more even and a bit higher now, especially, if Sergio and Harrington keep doing what they are doing. They are going to shoot up there.   
  
  Q. How do you feel about your finish off the hot start?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: I lost the putting the second day and obviously it difficult to get back, but over the weekend, I played all right. At the end of the day, I don't know where I'm going to finish but it's going to be around my best PGA ever, so I can't be too disappointed.   
  
  Q. The performance of the Europeans at the moment is great, isn't it?   
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, one word, great. Rose was level today. Poulter, he needs to regrettably play his way on the team and free it up a little bit more for Nick.  
  
  Q. How important was it for Sergio to putt in a good performance on the team?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, I think if he would have missed, he would have been an obvious pick. But just as I said, it will be a lot easier for Nick if he plays his way in, because he will be a lot freer for his picks.   
 I think it's good if he does it. He most likely will do it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT