PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 7, 2008
Robert Karlsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Can you describe the round today? It seemed like a pretty eventful one.   
 ROBERT KARLSSON: It was great. Actually I played really, really well. Early in the morning, the greens were very soft and from when we played the practice rounds and today they were firm, and went for the pin at the first; silly boy.  
 But then I played really well on the front nine and got the putter going. I mean, the greens were absolutely perfect, so once I rolled a couple in, just keep going, so it was good.  
  
  Q. The how do you not allow the fact that you're at the top of the leader forward?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Well, three rounds to go, I mean, you could be 8-over in hurry. In these tournaments, it's really, really important just to keep going. I've had good rounds before and finished badly, so it's so important to learn from your mistakes and just keep going. I mean, if you just hit a few wayward shots, you can make bogey.   
  
  Q. Top eight in all three majors so far, you came in here maybe a little under the radar but when people look at that, that's pretty impressive. What are your expectations this week?   
 ROBERT KARLSSON: To forget about those three top eights, that's the most important thing.  
 This is a new event. This has nothing to do with the other three. If you look at the other three, obviously I'm really, really ecstatic about the way I played at the U.S. Open and Masters, and British Open just sort of happened when the weather came up on the last day, and I don't think I've ever been so good in the lounge at the airport before. I was going from 15th to 7th in an airport lounge.   
  
  Q. You've got seven wins in Europe and haven't missed a cut all year, 17 out of 17; you come in here playing incredible golf. Where are you with your career right now?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: I hope I'm on the way up. I mean, I'm really, really happy with the way the things are going the last year, really, really happy.   
 I'm trying not to count those cuts because you can get caught up in that. I hope I can get better. A round like today, except for a couple of decisions, I hit it too hard on 14 and bad position on 1, I don't think I can get it much better right now, but I hope there's more.   
  
  Q. Were you noticing as your round progressed and people were watching the leaderboard that your galleries and the holes you were playing were getting bigger?   
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, you could see the TV cameras were getting really, really close to you and didn't really care when you teed off. On these courses, as I said, they are so difficult, so even if you're 4-under or even if you're 6-under, it doesn't really make a difference. I learned that lesson at the U.S. Open the first round. I was 4-under there after ten holes, and I think went to 1-under after that.   
 It's important if you can get around par in the tournament, you're not going to do too badly.  
  
  Q. How do you use major championships as a measure of success for your year?   
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Not really in any way whatsoever. I never really -- my last Top-10 before Augusta was 1992. So it's more like I measure myself on how comfortable I feel on the golf course, how sort of good I can feel, how comfortable I can feel on the first hole in a major, more that way, and sort of through the rounds. That's more how I measure where I am.   
 Because I know if I can play relaxed and comfortable, I have the best chance.   
  
  Q. What do you make of being the only player to finish in the Top-10 in the first three?   
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Well, Tiger's not playing all of them, is he?   
 No, but that's a good -- obviously a great measurement of how I have played this year. But at the same time, people are saying, well, I screwed it up a couple of times because I haven't won. With statistics, you can do anything and I'm just happy with the way things are going and keep on that.   
  
  Q. It was said in the press room the other day it's a good time for other guys to step up without Tiger; are you enjoying this?   
 ROBERT KARLSSON: This is a part of it and I enjoy doing it but it's also a reflection of where I am. I don't mind.   
  
  Q. I wonder if you could explain your swing philosophy and tell us how you generate the power that you do.  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Well, I don't think I can; I'm 6-4. (Laughter).  
  
  Q. Are you a hockey fan and is it fitting that you're here, being from Sweden?   
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, I don't know how many are on the team, six or seven, but I definitely follow how the Swedes are doing in the NHL.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT