U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 13, 2008
Robert Karlsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Full Audio Interview 
   
Q. Fantastic round of golf. You must feel pretty good  
about it.  
  ROBERT KARLSSON: I'm happy with the way things have been going the last two days. Yesterday, I played extremely well. Today, I managed to put together good scores. Obviously, I'm really, really pleased. 
   
   
Q. Second major of the year you contended. How are you  
feeling about your golf right now? 
  ROBERT KARLSSON: It's good. I'm really, really happy. I've never had things so much in place before in my career, so I'm definitely playing the best golf all around. I'm just enjoying it. 
   
   
Q. How tough was the golf course out there today for you? 
  ROBERT KARLSSON: The greens were firmer today for us than they were yesterday when we went off earlier. But at the U.S. Open, they usually mix it up, so some holes play a lot different. I think overall it was fairly similar to yesterday, except the greens were firmer today. 
   
   
Q. You had the bogey at 16 and came back for the birdie at 18? 
  ROBERT KARLSSON: I hit a bad tee shot left, good chip and just over putted it. But that's going to happen around these courses. And you just have to keep going. On 18, I had a good driver and 5-wood in the left trap and hit the bunker shot just a few inches from the hole. 
   
   
Q. What are the key things that are coming into place for you? 
  ROBERT KARLSSON: Being able to stay focused on the things that I'm doing, and just keep going, whatever happens around you. There are things you have to be aware of and not be distracted by, just keep going. 
   
   
Q. Coming in you came in with a hot streak? 
  ROBERT KARLSSON: I played well the last four or five rounds. The whole game has been in good shape. I've been driving better than I've done before, good striking, I've managed to just keep going, even though things -- some days have been tough, but I've managed to keep going no matter what happens. That's the key. 
   
   
Q. Tom Lehman who played in the final group at the U.S. Open  
four straight years, three times with the lead, once said the most  
important thing about playing a U.S. Open is having a good attitude,  
would you concur with that? 
  ROBERT KARLSSON: Definitely. Good attitude is always a key on any golf tournament, but even more so, the more punishing the golf courses are, and this is one of the tougher ones. The setup you have in the U.S. Open or The Masters or the British Open definitely it's more pressure on you as a person than the actual game. The game always has to be good, as well, but you're going to have your bad breaks, you're going to miss your putts, you're going to feel like you missed some shots. 
   
   
Q. Any particular focus for tomorrow's round? 
   
ROBERT KARLSSON: I'm not going to get too caught up in what's  
happening. I'm going to go out and try to do more of the same. 
   
   
Q. The possibility of playing with Tiger, that's a possibility? 
  ROBERT KARLSSON: I didn't know. Well, that would be another challenge to take on. I played with him a few times. I played with him in the Ryder Cup in the singles. Playing with him will be good. Whatever is happening around him, when he plays in a Major is going to be a challenge. So if that happens we'll take that. 
   
   
Q. Is it going to be tough to sleep tonight? 
   
ROBERT KARLSSON: I'm going to be pretty tired. I still  
have a little bit of jet lag. 
   
   
Q. Robert Karlsson, who is that guy up on top of the  
leaderboard, what do you say to those people? 
   
ROBERT KARLSSON: He's the tall Swede. 
   
   
Q. Were the greens getting a little bumpy towards the end? 
  ROBERT KARLSSON: Playing late in the day, so they're firm, and obviously they're growing a bit, so they had a little bit of spike marks, so it's challenging. 
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT