BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 22, 2008
Robert Karlsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Everyone is struggling this afternoon, yet you had six birdies and 12 pars. How did you do it?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Played very well and kept the ball in play. When I got in a bit of a problem, I tried to play sensible and it worked out fine.  
  
  Q. You had a great finish at the Masters, a Top-10, took a break, came back; third in Italy; third in Ireland; things really are going well for you.   
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, I'm really, really enjoying the game and working pretty hard when I'm out there to just play it simple and not make it too hard for myself; and when things happen, don't waste any energy on any sort of temper and stuff like that but so far good.   
  
  Q. You seem to be very cool; you're able to deal with any sort of disappointments on the course, not that there were too many today. You've got a very good mental approach.   
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Right now, it's a very, very good balance. I'm really enjoying what I'm doing, and it feels good.  
  
  Q. Now, Wentworth, everyone seems to be struggling, but you're doing obviously very well. What do you make of the course, because people have had problems out there today.   
 ROBERT KARLSSON: It's a bit of a funny course. When it plays short, the way it does now, quite bouncy, it's a lot trickier. Short game is quite tricky and the greens get a little bit bouncy. So it's difficult to get close to the hole on the approach shots.   
 So you've got to play it very, very patient and hopefully knock in a few putts, and I did that today.  
  
  Q. Now, you haven't fared too well here in the past, certainly last year didn't go too well for you, although you were tied 14th for the year before.   
 ROBERT KARLSSON: I forgot about last year. (Laughing).  
  
  Q. You were able to put it in the past, is that it?   
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, it's a new year every year. When I was here last year, I didn't play very well at all. I wasn't happy with my game, so I put it down to those sort of things.  
 This course is definitely down to patience and going to have some -- it's almost playing like an inland links a little bit. You're going to have the occasional bounces. I hit a great 5-wood off the tee on No. 6, would have been a downslope on the fairway and it bounced into the trap. Those are the sort of things that are going to happen and you just have to deal with it and roll with it.  
  
  Q. Do you have the patience to last another 54 holes?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: I'm going to do my part and we'll see what the others do.   
 I've actually done quite well here, sort of a couple of rounds every tournament I put it together. I think I've been sort of close to Top-10 or being in Top-10 and then screw it up a little bit here and there.   
 You just have to learn. This is a course for the patient type of player; to see the winners here, a lot of Montgomeries and Faldos up there, and especially the way it plays the way it plays like now. It's a totally different course in October when it's wet. It's totally different.   
 But this is what we have to deal with this year so far, so just get on with it. It is a bit frustrating, because you feel like you're doing quite well, and when you're seeing 30-foot birdie putts, it's easy to try to push it a little bit and end up in the trap and make a bogey.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT