MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2008
Robert Karlsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ROBERT KARLSSON: Well, it was the best round so far this week, so obviously really happy with that. A couple of bunker shots that were a bit clumsy, but it happens. But all in all, it was a good week. They've been three good rounds, and I'm looking forward to tomorrow to keep it going.  
  
  Q. How does it feel to see your name on that leaderboard there?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Well, I just saw it now. That's the first time I saw it.  
  
  Q. You didn't look all round?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: No, there's too many holes to go. There's no prizes for being on the leaderboard on Saturday. It doesn't really matter. It's nice to be there. I can sit here and look at it right now. It's nice.  
  
  Q. What did you want to get out of today's round? How much ground were you trying to make up?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Any time you go out on this golf course the only thing you can do is focus on your own game, and I did that pretty well, and I'm also really happy with the way things are going, so it's good.  
  
  Q. You played last year here?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Mm-hmm, first time last year.  
  
  Q. Is there a big difference between last year and this year, the way you're feeling about your game?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: In many ways, both the way the course is playing is very different from last year. Secondly, I'm playing better this year than I did last year. Last year I made too many mistakes from inexperience, tried to go for certain pins and stuff like that. I guess you learn a bit.  
  
  Q. You had a bunch of -- a few birdies early. Did that just kind of give you a confidence that you can do certain things out there today?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Well, I played well around the turn. I birdied 8 and 9, and then I played well 10, 11, 12. 12, I had a good birdie chance and just missed it. It could have been a couple better. But this course doesn't give that much extra.  
  
  Q. I've got to ask you about 18. Everybody likes to end the day on a high note. How do you deal with ending the day on a not-so-high note?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Well, it doesn't really matter right now. That happened and I can't do anything about it. I hit a bit of a poor tee shot, pulled a slice and it just caught a branch and fell down. So I hit a 3-wood second shot. I just had to get it up around the green. And then I hit a poor bunker shot.   
 I'm going to go practice bunker shots in this wet sand because it's quite different today from the other days.  
  
  Q. You have tomorrow. What do you want to do to get ready for tomorrow?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: A little bit of practice, probably go home, take it easy. Really happy with the way things are going, so keep doing what I'm doing.  
  
  Q. How do you get ready for Sunday at The Masters? What do you do?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: I guess I've got to feed my kids.  
  
  Q. How many kids do you have?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: I've got two.  
  
  Q. How old are they?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Three and six.  
  
  Q. Oh, so they need you? They're not on their own?   
 ROBERT KARLSSON: I hope not.  
  
  Q. Do you have a lot of family and friends here?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Three friends from Sweden and my family, my wife and two kids, so it's good.  
  
  Q. You seem pretty relaxed. Do you have certain expectations coming into the Masters?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: No expectations whatsoever, just to be here and enjoy the week. I did enjoy it last year, but I was a bit disappointed on how many mistakes I made around the course. I mean, so far over three days now, I've put myself -- I've made two mental errors, and that's really, really good. I mean, the first day to the front right pin on No. 2, we didn't have that pin last year. I wished I had hit it past the flag and left because it's going to spin down. Did not, and three-putt.   
 Then yesterday I hit it left on No. 5, and from there I hit a 7-iron because if it comes up short, it's no problem. I hit it just short and that was a big problem.  
  
  Q. So those are your two in the three rounds?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Well, I've sort of made mistakes mentally. Obviously you're going to hit bad shots, but obviously you have to deal with those. But the most important thing here is not to put yourself in a position where you don't have a chance to get up-and-down. If you don't get up-and-down, that's one thing. But to hit it in a position where you're sort of, oops, I shouldn't have put it here. That's the key to this course. Obviously you're going to hit your bad shots and you have to take that and you have to deal with whatever happens. You're going to look like a fool sometimes like I did on 18, but that's a part of golf.  
  
  Q. I was walking by the TV screen about an hour ago, and I saw you make a really long putt and you got really excited. Where was that?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: 16, yeah.   
  
  Q. How far was that putt?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: It was from the bottom, right from the bottom. It was good fun. I don't usually get that emotionally caught up, but it was sort of a good fun putt. It came up over the hill, and I thought that's going to go in.  
  
  Q. Do you know how far it was in feet or meters?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: I think it was about 14 paces, so would that be about 40 feet?   
  
  Q. You mean each pace is like a stride, like three feet?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, probably about 40 feet, up and over the hill there. To make a birdie on that hole to that pin is always great.  
  
  Q. Yeah, 16 is fun, isn't it?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, it's good fun.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT