MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2008
Robert Karlsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ROBERT KARLSSON: It was good, happy with that. I mean, I started out hitting a couple of weak drives from the beginning. I missed a drive right on 5 and 7, made a bogey on 5, good save on 7, and sort of kept it going from there. I played really well on the back nine, happy with that.  
  
  Q. What was the key to playing well on the back nine?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: There's a lot of straight holes, 10, 11, 12, 13. I played 13, I hit a 3-wood quite a bit right. I wasn't too tempted to go for it, just laid up. It's about keeping the ball in play and not giving yourself any stupid shots that you can't really recover from.   
 I tried to give myself the easiest next shot, so to speak. I mean, I hit a really good drive on 15, so I just had a 5-iron for the second shot. It's playing a really, really patient game.  
  
  Q. A couple guys at 3-under, a lot of guys at 1-under. How good a score would 2-under be today?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: I'm happy with the job I've done out there, and it's the only thing I'm focused on with three days to go. This is a good start, a lot better than the 78 I shot last year, so who knows?   
  
  Q. Your second Masters. Is this different than last year's experience?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: A lot. Especially the first round last year, I got really impatient and felt -- the course is a bit tricky. It feels like you should shoot lower scores than you do. I was impatient, went for a couple of stupid pins, made a couple bogeys. Today I had kind of a rocky start, made a couple bogeys the first few holes, so I tried to calm myself, okay, let's keep going.  
  
  Q. Are there low scores out there, 68s, 67s today?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: I think there is, actually. The pins are quite friendly around the turn. 10 is not friendly, but from there, 11, 12, 13, 15, 16, you've got a number of chances there, and then just watch out for the tricky ones so you don't make any silly mistakes at 14 and 17. The guys that are up there, I think they've played here before.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT