BRITISH MASTERS SUPPORTED BY SKY SPORTS
October 8, 2015
Robert Karlsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tough shot on the last, but does that emphasize how accurate you have to be on the golf course?
ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah.  I mean, if you hit a bad shot, that can happen around here.  I'm happy with that.
Q. What's pleased you most about the golf today?
ROBERT KARLSSON: Everything is pretty good actually.  Hit most of the fairways.  Otherwise it's hard to put a really good score together.  Knock in a few putts and everything has been pretty solid.
Q. It's been a fairly frustrating year for you, is there a feeling that you weren't that far away from getting a good round like this to start a tournament?
ROBERT KARLSSON: Well, I shot 65 a couple of weeks ago in Germany.  I put together some odd good rounds, hopefully keep it going a bit longer than one round.
Q. What about the overall experience of playing here today?  Great crowds.  It's been a good atmosphere?
ROBERT KARLSSON: Great atmosphere.  It's great to play in England, and it's a great event.  It's really, really good to play here.  Really enjoyed it.  I had a good grouping as well.  I went off with Padraig, so very good.
Q. -- match play when you made the final.  Sort of quiet spell since then.  What's been going on?
ROBERT KARLSSON: Well, I've been putting up a few good rounds here and there.  It's not been enough.  The match play obviously fantastically well.  Match play is match play.  You can get away with it a little bit more in match play.
But obviously, as I said, I put in a good round last week, had a couple good rounds in Germany, though I finished off bad in the end.  But things are coming.  It's just a pity that we're running out of events.
Q. What's the plan for the rest of the season?
ROBERT KARLSSON: Let's see what happens after this week and we'll see.  I'm not in anything at the moment, so I need a really good one here.
Q. Race to Dubai?
ROBERT KARLSSON: I need a good one here or might go next week.  If I'm not in the top 2 or 3 or 4 next week, I might go home.  Been on the road for five weeks, and my kids are not too happy with me.  It's just the way it is.
Q. Shane was comparing this place to a Wentworth in terms of the feel.  That's the place you have down well before?
ROBERT KARLSSON: It's very much like Wentworth, like a modern -- it's a bit modern.  It's quite similar.  Hit it good off the tee.  Some places here, if you miss the fairway, likely your caddy (indiscernible).  That's just the way it is.
Q. Finally, just a word about this crowd.  Great to see this.  Sky gave away a lot of free tickets.  Obviously a very good tournament for a Thursday?
ROBERT KARLSSON: Very impressive.  Big event.  With this tournament back on the schedule is great.  We want to play more tournaments in Europe.  Even if you don't call this mainland Europe or proper Europe.  It's great to have the European Tour in Dubai, but you want to have tournaments in England as well.  This is kind of where we're from.  So it's great to have this one back, especially after 25 years.  When we started I think there were six events in England.  (Inaudible).  So, I mean, it's great that we get one more in England.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT