PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 20, 2007
Robert Karlsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  A tremendous day for you, it looks as it if it's a tremendous day for the tournament as well. 
 ROBERT KARLSSON:  It's been a fantastic week for all the players, not much wind, and the course is set up for scoring, so hopefully good viewing for the TV and fun playing it, as well. 

 Q.  Did you look at the leaderboard when you finished? 
 ROBERT KARLSSON:  I looked when I finished the 18th hole.  16-under, see what I have to do tomorrow. 

 Q.  Does that mean you were not looking earlier? 
 ROBERT KARLSSON:  No, I didn't look.  I thought I saw my name come up on 16, but didn't really care too much about it.  There is 25 per cent of the tournament is still to be played and a lot of things can happen.  Some of the good players are up on the top, and just keep going. 

 Q.  Is that a measure of your experience, you're a prolific winner on the Tour and looking at your age now you're moving into the kind of really experienced element of it, so is it your nature now that you work closely on your own game and don't pay too much attention to others? 
 ROBERT KARLSSON:  What do you mean by the age, very experienced?  I appreciate that! 
 I'm trying to just focus on my own game.  I can't do anything else out there, especially on a course like this; there's so many birdies to be had.  And at the same time, there's a lot of holes where you can hit it into water, so it can be a quick change around, especially during the third round.  There's still a long way to go. 

 Q.  So did you have any kind of number in your mind today, and if not, will you have a number in your mind for tomorrow? 
 ROBERT KARLSSON:  No.  I didn't have a number today.  Tomorrow I'll just sort of focus on my own game and really go out and enjoy it and play the terrific golf course. 

 Q.  Most of the players coming into this time of the season have their own agenda trying to win the Order of Merit or trying to keep their card; are you pleased that you're in your own kind of zone at this time? 
 ROBERT KARLSSON:  Yeah, it happens sometimes that you get into trying to win tournaments and try to get into this, that and the other but it's so easy to get caught up in that.  So I'm trying to just focus and leave it outside everything and just play my game. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT