THE DEUTSCHE BANK PLAYERS' CHAMPIONSHIP OF EUROPE
July 25, 2007
Robert Karlsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ROBERT KARLSSON:  It's good to be back. I played really, really well and I also remember someone took my coin marking my ball. We had a rain delay and when I got back out my marker had gone. It was a Swedish Kroner. It was just short of the flag and I went from an eight footer to a ten footer. Left it short.   
  
  Q.  It was an important win for you?   
 ROBERT KARLSSON:  It was. It was a big cheque and changed a lot of things for me. Helped me to get in the Ryder Cup team. Pitching in on the seventh for eagle in the third round was a big moment last year and Woosnam told my caddie 'I think your man is going to win this week'. He didn't mention the Ryder Cup then though.   
  
  Q.  Any it made you the most prolific  Swedish winner?   
 ROBERT KARLSSON:  It did but it is close with Henrik and Niclas just one behind. It is great for Swedish golf. And it seems when one of us is not playing so well another comes through, like Pelle Edberg at the moment. It seems like a lot of guys are pushing each other on.   
  
  Q.  And two successive Swedish winners here?   
 ROBERT KARLSSON:  I think this course is similar to what we play in Sweden which helps. It is quite forgiving and you have to beat 155 guys no matter how the course is scoring.   
  
  Q.  How do you feel about your season this year?   
 ROBERT KARLSSON:  I was in America a lot for the Spring which was good for getting a feel of it. I played well some weeks, not so well others but it came together at the TPC where I finished sixth. Since then I took a few weeks off after the US Open. After a break missing the cut at Loch Lomond was not great but felt pretty good going into the Open at Carnoustie but I was ill Tuesday and Wednesday which was not the best preparation. It has been a bit of a funny season but the five year exemption from this tournament last year was great and I can't complain.  But after a season like last year you have to be patient and keep playing.   
  
  Q.  What did you think of the Open?   
 ROBERT KARLSSON:  It was fantastic. Fantastic course. Played really good and as a European it was fantastic for us to get a win. You feel sorry for Sergio but someone has to win and someone has to lose and that is part of the game but you have to say Padraig played a brilliant play-off.   
  
  Q.  Will this Open the floodgates?   
 ROBERT KARLSSON:  Maybe we should play courses more where we play a lot. We play Carnoustie every year for the dunhill links.   
  
  Q.  Thoughts for this week?   
 ROBERT KARLSSON:  It will be very different to last year but just go out and enjoy it and hopefully things will go my way.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT