VOLVO MASTERS
October 28, 2006
Robert Karlsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  What's the verdict on a round with its share of up and downs?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  I'm pretty happy it's over.
Q.  And that's it.
ROBERT KARLSSON:  That's it.  I got away with 1 under, but playing around here is always    it's a big challenge.  I played pretty well, but I just made a couple of wrong club decisions and missed a couple of putts and I holed a couple of others.  So a bit of a funny round.
Q.  How difficult is it to pick clubs in this breezy wind?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  It's very difficult.  And the hardest holes are actually 5, 6, 14, they are the difficult ones.  A hole like 15, when you stand high up and it's exposed, it's easier.  So it's the little holes where you have little shots that are the hardest once.
Q.  You're still in with a chance of winning the Order of Merit; does that affect your way of thinking tomorrow?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  Not the way of thinking.  On this course you've just got to hit the ball and find it and take your chance from there.  Everybody's going to make bogeys.  Everybody is going to make birdies around here.
Q.  Will you be looking at the board to monitor what other people are doing?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  I know what I need to do.  I haven't really played that well yet to be in for a chance of winning, but you never know, it's all a matter of keeping your head on this golf course.
Q.  You're a couple off second place.  Everything to play for?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  Weird tournament, weird situation, very bunched up.  Quite unusual around here.  It's usually a bit spread out.  I think it is because it's a little bit less rough around the greens this year, it's a little easier to get up and down.  Obviously when it's softer, you can actually hit some of these fairways, which is quite difficult.  Otherwise it's a little bit more forgiving this year than usual.  The weather has been very severe at times.
Q.  David birdied five in a row to get to 4 under.
ROBERT KARLSSON:  That's what happens around here.  A lot can happen on 15, 16, 17, 18.  Even not particularly bad shots    I mean, I hit a good 6 iron into 17 yesterday.  It was much longer and I eagle putted
Q.  Do you enjoy playing the course?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  Yeah, it's a bit like playing the Open.  It's great to play once a year.  It's always in great condition, you enjoy the putting, you enjoy the challenge.  But to play tournament golf on this type of course all the time would be very, very tough.
Q.  It would leave you mentally exhausted, wouldn't it?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  Once a year in this type of tournaments, it's great.  It separates the guys who are playing well from the ones that are not playing well.  And when it's a little bit windy, it puts pressure on the whole part of the game.  When it's not that windy, you don't have to hit that many drivers around here.
ROBERT KARLSSON:  I've been on both sides.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT