VOLVO MASTERS
October 25, 2006
Robert Karlsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  You said when you talked in Wales before you won, you talked about all of these things, that you were going to let yourself relax into it a bit more, and you seem to have done that as well from what I can see.  You look quite chilled these days.
ROBERT KARLSSON:  I am quite chilled.
Q.  Were you totally goal orientated before, and it's a radical difference?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  Yes, it's a radical difference, radical difference.  I wasn't probably totally goal oriented, but it was enough.  If the goals are there, the results, even if you think about it, it's sort of hard on the car to accelerate and brake at the same time.  It's not hard to do, but you never get anywhere.  You pretend to get there and it's sort of easy for a human being to do that.
Q.  And previously you judged the success of the year on achieving all of the goals, or you were only happy with some of them?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  No, which I never did.
Q.  So you were always disappointed?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  Pretty much.
Q.  Was it pretty much self analysis that got to you this position, or did you have to use other people?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  No, I worked with a coach.  Worked on getting rid of all the results and just really, really focusing on things I can control.
Q.  Was it too much of a jumble going on?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  Yeah, definitely, I mean, it was easy to get    I did get caught up in the results.

And if you have results of finishing 50th in the world, for example, when you get to 53rd you get a bit caught up on it and you start to stare at leaderboards instead of playing golf.
Q.  I can see that:  What do I need to do this week to get in the Top 50?  And if it's not winning the tournament, happy finishing 20th or something like that because it might get you in the Top 50.  Actually in terms of your play, are you any different in terms of what you can now do with a golf ball?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  A little bit in a way because I'm more relaxed on the golf course and I can let myself go.  I don't beat myself up so bad when I miss.  So I allow myself to miss more, and you're more free, you can take more
Q.  You can do better the next shot.
ROBERT KARLSSON:  And also, when you're a bit free, because even if I should miss this one, it's not the end of the world.  So it's a little bit that way, letting myself play sort of free again, usually it lets your body work a little better.  But physically on here, no, definitely not.
Q.  Does it change you as a person off the course?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  Yeah, I mean, before if I missed the cut, that was    if you asked my wife, I was    it would be hard to describe it.
Q.  Are you amazed that she's still with you?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  Yeah.  (Laughing).
Q.  Almost a pent up fury, was it?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  A little bit.  A few remote controls I've gone through, that's for sure.  A few golf clubs and remote controls in hotel rooms.
Q.  Anything worse than a remote control; you haven't gone through a wall?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  No, but remote controls are good, they are they are easier.
Q.  Now you're guaranteed a start here next year in all of the big events.  Do you have to sort of resist the temptation to look at what you can now achieve if you're not goal orientated?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  Well, not really because I know why I've done well this year.  And it's very important for me to stay where I am, to stay in the present.
Q.  So you don't start thinking right now, 'I want to contend in majors,' you've got to just let it happen?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  I know this year, if I keep doing that might get a chance to do that.
Q.  Were you serious when you said you had absolutely no idea of this week exactly what happens?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  I haven't got a clue.
Q.  Deliberately so, do you not look?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  Not really, it's not important.  I don't know what the first prize is here.
Q.  The Order of Merit is not important to you in the approach?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  No, it's totally irrelevant and for me it's probably better not to know.  It's probably easier.  Got to go out and do it myself.
Q.  And if you're in contention on Sunday then that's the time.
ROBERT KARLSSON:  Well, it's not going to be that time either.  I can just play my ball the best I can do.
Q.  And you know you have to play really well to win the Order of Merit.
ROBERT KARLSSON:  And the best chance to achieve that is to be out there and be relaxed and play my ball and we'll see.
Q.  Was winning an Order of Merit a goal?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  No, never.  Not really.  Never really thought about it.  I was more about tournaments and those sort of things.  I never really thought about the Order of Merit because I've never been that type of player.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT