HSBC WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
September 15, 2006
Robert Karlsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








GORDON SIMPSON:  Robert, well done, another victory.  Just like Paul Casey, two wins out of two, and you're in the semifinals.  How do you feel about your position now going into the weekend?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  Well, when I got here, I didn't really look at who I was going to play in the semifinals with.

So it's a fantastic feeling to be there now and just going to go home now and try as much as possible to be fresh and ready for tomorrow.
GORDON SIMPSON:  Angel Cabrera has a heck of a record around here, hasn't he?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  I know he won the BMW a couple years back, but I don't know anything about his other records.
GORDON SIMPSON:  He was a semifinalist here last year.  Is this beyond what you expected?  You said you were not thinking about the semifinals.
ROBERT KARLSSON:  If you go against Jim Furyk or Tiger Woods in the first round, then you're definitely trying to just go out and play your game and not focus on anything else and here we are.
GORDON SIMPSON:  Have you felt yourself as a much more relaxed individual now with the pressure off now that you know you're on the team and you know the Matches are just coming up?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  Well, that has not really made much of a difference because after sort of TPC to Deutsche Bank, I didn't really feel like I was in it and then after that, I was in it straightaway.  Even though I wasn't mathematically, Ryder Cup has really never been on my mind at all this season, because it never really became an issue.  I kept trying to play and play and play and I was in the top 20 and kept doing what I was trying to do.  I took the Scottish Open off and adjusted my thinking, and the big win that I got at TPC was so big, so, yeah, I've been close, but in with quite a bit of margin.
Q.  What has been the strongest part of your game over the last two round?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  Over the last two rounds, today, you mean?
Q.  Both days.
ROBERT KARLSSON:  Short game.  Short game has been good.  And I've been good, I holed a fantastic putt today, chipped in once yesterday and I haven't given away too many easy bogeys.  I 3 putted once today but that happens.  I left myself a couple tricky putts.  But overall, chipping and short game have been good.
Q.  After the tremendous way that you played yesterday, birdieing all of the par 3s, did you feel that there might be a bit of a letdown today?  How did you go into today's round?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  Yesterday was playing long.  If it's a stroke play tournament and I have yesterday with me, today it's a totally new thing.  I can go out and shoot 75 and 74 which I pretty much would have done.  It's so different in match play because you don't bring it with you.  It's just, okay, over and done with, and it's a total new start every day, which you don't do in stroke play.  It becomes a different attitude and a different sort of mind set.  You just take as it comes.  If you really make a mistake on some hole, it doesn't make a big difference if you make an eight or nine, just pick it up and walk off.
Q.  So you don't worry if you played so well the previous day whether you're going to be able to repeat that?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  Not really, no.  I knew going out I had to perform fairly well to win but some days are like this, he was struggling as bad as I was.
Q.  With your successes over the last couple of days carry over to next week, when you're likely to play the same person?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  No, that doesn't matter.  Cabrera won't be there.  But I mean, Furyk, no, it doesn't matter.  I think it's going to be a new    you can look at it both ways.  My guess he would be out to get his revenge, and if things go my way, maybe I'm a bit up on him.  You can look at it both ways.  I don't think it will make much difference.
GORDON SIMPSON:  Well played, Robert, and good luck.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT