SALTIRE ENERGY PAUL LAWRIE MATCH PLAY
August 2, 2015
Robert Karlsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Your thoughts?
ROBERT KARLSSON: It was much better than I expected coming in here.  I can take a lot of positives out of it.  Obviously getting that close and getting back, obviously it stings a bit, but it's part of being a professional golfer.
Q. Lots of positives from getting back on a couple of occasions in that final?
ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, definitely.  I mean, the birdie on -- well, I played 16, 17, and that was nice.
18, I had a chance, but completely miss-read the putt.  Even if it reached the hole, it would never have gone in.  So there we are.
Q. Having spoken throughout the week, you were a little surprised, but presumably the way that you've made progress is again another cause for celebration.
ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, definitely.  Disappointing to get to the final and lose, but if you look on how I played lately and to have a chance to win on the last hole, it's good.
Q. Because you had that chance to win, we were reflecting that it's an awful long time since the previous one.  Getting on for five years.  Does it feel that long?
ROBERT KARLSSON: Yes, it does.  It's been a pretty poor five years.  I had a good run last year the middle of summer when I played nicely.  But it's nice to get this 1-under the belt and hopefully carry on the next few weeks.
Q. Does it give you self-belief and more confidence?
ROBERT KARLSSON: Definitely, especially the way I've played now the last few holes.  A bit unlucky with a couple of lies but that's part of playing on a links course, bouncing all over the place and that's a part of it.  There we are.
Q. Do you have an appreciation of the man who has won, Kiradech Aphibarnrat?
ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, definitely.  He's tricky to play against.  He's playing such a free and flowing golf, slightly different.  You never really know what he's going to do, and he just -- tricky to stay on your own game because he's so aggressive.  You know, most likely, you're going to get one or two -- he's going to give a couple away, which he did on 8 and 15.  But also, he's going to make birdies.  He's tricky to play against but obviously a great, great player and fantastic birdie on the last.  So, deserved it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT