DEUTSCHE BANK PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP OF EUROPE
July 28, 2006
Robert Karlsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
NICOLAI LAUDE:  Robert, 14 under par after two rounds, which is, I think, the best score so far by halftime we've had in this tournament, so it's almost a record.
ROBERT KARLSSON:  Yeah, but there's a couple more players out on the course, and Westwood I think has got a good chance on 17.  But it's a low scoring week.
NICOLAI LAUDE:  Seems to be that your game is on peak right now.
ROBERT KARLSSON:  Well, I hope not.  I hope there's more to come.  But I'm playing well.  I've played well for a couple of months.  I'm enjoying it out there and feeling pretty calm and relaxed and just doing my thing.
NICOLAI LAUDE:  We met first this week at the Eric Clapton concert, and we were talking about the Swedish players and how good they are, and you also told me that the big names on the World Rankings are not Swedish.
ROBERT KARLSSON:  No, I mean, if you look on the World Rankings, just the fact that the best Swede is Henrik, I don't know where he is, but somewhere around 15 to 20, but we have a lot more players now up around    I think it's four players top 50, so that's good.  This season especially there's been a lot of good Swedish players.  It's good fun.
NICOLAI LAUDE:  You are still after the top 10 of the World Rankings to bring at least one Swedish player or maybe you.
ROBERT KARLSSON:  Well, I certainly have a long way to go.  It's good to see when your friends and countrymen are playing well, and we're doing that at the moment, and it sort of helps us all, I think.
Q.  Obviously a very good round, but was it getting tricky out there with the greens getting a bit spiky and messed up?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  Yeah, it was a little more difficult to putt today in a couple of places.  I was a little bit surprised at a couple of pin positions, as well, which sat in a couple of low areas on the greens, so they were very soft around there.  But apart from that it was a pretty straightforward day.  The weather is so good and the course is set up quite friendly.  You just have to go out and play.
Q.  You're not going to like this, but it's a Ryder Cup question.  There wasn't a Swede in the last Ryder Cup.  What do you think your chances are?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  My chances?  Well, the way it looks, I've just got to play very well.  It's impossible to put a percentage or anything.  If I win one more, yeah, then I have a chance.  It's a difficult question to answer.  I just need to do my thing and we'll see what happens.  Obviously you get a lot of questions about it and these sort of things, but I can just focus on my game and we'll see what happens.  There's another five, six tournaments and a couple of big ones in America, but obviously it's a bit of a    it becomes a bit of a guesswork because there's so many other nationalities in there, as well, that can sort of take the big checks or we can actually play well here and be the top European and make a big gain or you can play well here and be third or fourth European and not make a big gain.

That's probably the thing that is good with it because you cannot go too much ahead of yourself.  You just have to keep playing, especially where I am; I can't protect anything because I'm outside.  For me I just have to go and play.
Q.  Do you remember the feelings about the tournament in Munich you won, and are there some feelings coming up now?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  Well, I mean, every time you're playing well, that's what you're here for.  It's a bonus to be out in the last couple of groups, and that's why sort of you play the game, and that's the biggest challenge, to be out there in the last couple of groups.  It's great.  Every time you do it, you get more and more accustomed to it.  I'm looking forward to tomorrow.

But, I mean, every tournament that I've won, of course I remember what it felt like, and that was a fantastic week in Munich when I won this because that was a big tournament.  The first one was sort of quite a small one.
Q.  It was a very impressive performance when you won in Wales.  How do you judge your form since then?  Have you been very happy or averagely happy with it since then?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  Since then I've been very happy.  It's been bigger tournaments.  This has been a part of the season where previously I had big, big problems.  I have never played well in France, in as many years as I played well in the European Open.  I'm really happy with the way I played, and actually last week I played fantastic.  I wasn't particularly hot on the greens.  It was still my best finish in a major, which is hard to believe.  I still am very pleased with the golf course and how things are working on and off the golf course.  I'm really happy.
NICOLAI LAUDE:  Robert, thank you very much, and good luck for tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT