DEUTSCHE BANK PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP OF EUROPE
July 27, 2006
Robert Karlsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Where were the real good spots today?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  Well, pretty much all over was pretty good.  I had 29 putts, so it wasn't a fantastic putting round, but at the same time I held up really well.  I can't really say that I missed any putts.  I had one good chance at a five, hole No. 3.
Q.  What did the course play like?  Was it real short because of the dryness, or are you used to it on this track?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  Well, it's short if you play in the rough, but from the fairway it's not that hard.  If you hit it in the rough it bounces a lot more.  But it's not the big difference.  The big difference is the rough.  You can pretty much get it on the green from pretty much anywhere.
Q.  I've heard the greens are real soft.  Is that the case?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  Yeah, they're very soft, almost maybe too soft.  I guess they've got to water them quite a bit to keep them alive this weekend.
Q.  What's the effect if you say that they are almost too soft?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  They get little spike marks.  It's good to go early.  I think they're going to be at a disadvantage in the afternoon, but we can't do much about that.  We just have to go with the conditions.
Q.  Obviously well played.  Can you tell me how well played?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  It was good.  It was pretty much an all around good round.  It wasn't fantastic anywhere I would say, but I holed a few really good putts, and the rest was solid.  Obviously the course is quite forgiving.
Q.  Isn't that a little surprising given this heat that the course is so forgiving?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  They've had to water the fairways, and as far as the sprinklers, there's not much rough when you're out of the sprinkler areas.  That's why it's very forgiving.  And the greens they have to water to keep them alive, so there's not much choice.
Q.  The greens, maybe they haven't cut them too short, either, just to keep them alive?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  No, I think so.  You can't    if you get them really short and try to get them down, they could go in a day with this kind of weather, especially with the grass here.  It's not the same type of grass as last week at the Open.  It's a different type of grass on the course that they have to water more.
Q.  Given these wonderful conditions to play in, I know the breeze is picking up a bit now, but with a course this forgiving, it's only right to shoot a low score, isn't it?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  Well, the game is not that easy.  But it's going to be a low scoring week.  You just have to go with that.  Still, the guy that plays the best is going to be the one that's winning.  It's just the same thing, it's just the numbers are going to be a little bit lower.
Q.  You sound every bit as relaxed as you were down in Wales.
ROBERT KARLSSON:  Wales is a long time ago.  This week is here now, and I'm just trying to focus on this.
Q.  You are keeping that same confidence going, the same enjoyment?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  Yeah, I mean, if I'm relaxed and I enjoy playing, I usually play a lot better.
Q.  Not thinking about other things down the road?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  No, I mean, you've got to mind it anyway, so it's up to me to try to stay focused.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT