BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2006
Robert Karlsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RODDY WILLIAMS:  Well, thanks for coming in.  68, low round of the day, puts you within one shot of the lead at the moment.  Tell us the story of today.
ROBERT KARLSSON:  Well, it was a tough day.  You want me to go through the holes?
RODDY WILLIAMS:  Well, we might as well start with that.
ROBERT KARLSSON:  I 3 putted the first from like 35 feet, 40 feet left of the flag.

Second, 8 iron to 18 inches.

Drive, 3 iron from the trap, bunker shot, ten feet.

Wedge to six feet on 8.

9, 4 iron, two inches.

14, 7 iron, two inches.

15, I hit it in the trees right and had to chip it outside, wedge.  Ended up holing an 8 footer for 5 which was really nice.

17, drive, 3 iron, pitched it up to ten feet.
RODDY WILLIAMS:  Some pretty close shots there, particularly on the par 3s.
ROBERT KARLSSON:  Yeah, I mean it was nice just to go up and tap them in.  When I heard the reaction from the crowd on 14 I thought it was really close but wasn't there.  Just saying, I was probably closer yesterday because it looked like you had a good chance yesterday but it was a bit too long.
Q.  Chance on 18?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  No, I hit it on the front    I hit in the fairway bunker off the tee, so laid up    well, I had probably 18 feet or something.

But it's a tricky pin to get close to because you don't really want to aim for the right side of the flag and if you don't aim to the right side of the flag, you're probably going to miss the green left.  So you really don't want to have two putts to that hole.
Q.  Do you like the changes that Ernie has introduced to the course?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  Yeah, I think they are great, really, really good.  The course has improved dramatically I think.  It's a lot more challenging now off the tee, which it wasn't before.  Only two years ago we played in fairly good weather.  I didn't even bring the driver out on the course.  I didn't even have it in the bag, but now you need it.  So it's changed the way the course plays.
Q.  Then when you get on to the greens?  What's your view then?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  Yeah, I mean, I don't know    it's a better course now, definitely.
Q.  I saw one of the bookmakers was tipping you this week.  Did he know something that we didn't or that you didn't?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  I don't know.  I played fairly well the last few weeks.  I'm happy with the way things are going, feeling very calm and relaxed on the course and really enjoying it.  I mean, that's definitely a big advantage on a day like today.  You get a bit too caught up in missed shots, you're going to have some misjudging of winds.  So you can easily hit it to 40 feet with a good shot.  To just take it as it is.

It's a bit like playing on a links on a day like today, even though it's not.  You're going to have the odd breaks and the odd difficult conditions.
Q.  You had a hole in one one year some years ago, didn't you?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  Not here.  Sunningdale.  Just across the road but not here.
Q.  Do you feel it's time for your next victory?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  Well, I mean, that's a question that's very difficult to answer, isn't it.  Victories, what I can do, I can just go out and play my best, and if things go well, then I can win.  But, I mean, if I don't play well    I can even play well and lose.  I don't really think about it that way.  I just try to go out and enjoy my game and then we'll see.
Q.  Most of the guys that have been coming in saying it was much tougher out there today than yesterday.  Are you a player that likes playing in those more difficult condition?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  Well, it seems like it at the moment.  I played well last week.  I mean, it was difficult.  Maybe it was easier putting today for us if you were earlier obviously, because the greens in the afternoon were quite bumpy.  But it was definitely a lot tougher today.
Q.  Would the Ryder Cup being an aspiration for you this year, apart from another win?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  If would be great to get in it.  A long, long, long way to go.  The situation where I am at the moment, I probably need to win one of the big ones to have a chance.  Just take this as it comes every week.  It would be a big, big bonus but so many good players out there, there's going to be a lot of good, highly ranked players who are going to miss out.  So that's just the way it is.
Q.  Did you do anything daft?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  Well, I bogeyed some par 5s.  Hit it out of bounds on 17 was pretty daft, wasn't it?
Q.  Off the course?
ROBERT KARLSSON:  No.  I sent the family home this week.  They were out two weeks ago and I've had a cold since, so I said no, leave that at home this week.  And last year they were here and I had the flu.  So, no, you stay at home this week.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT