SALTIRE ENERGY PAUL LAWRIE MATCH PLAY
August 1, 2015
Robert Karlsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Let's claim him as a local man.  How does it feel to beat the local hero?
ROBERT KARLSSON: Well, I play my game, I mean, that's going to happen.
Q. And it happened in style the way you finished?
ROBERT KARLSSON: It was nice.  I played reasonably well.  Got a little behind in the beginning but he played great in the beginning, so there wasn't much to do.  I kept going, made some good putts.  And holes when he actually won them, I tried to at least show that I was competing for the hole and not give him any easy holes.  So I'm very happy with that.  At the end, a couple of bonus ones went in, but that happens.
Q. Talk us through those bonus ones, 16 and 17?
ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, 16, I had kind of a nice yardage but it was a bit too much wind from the right for my liking.  Sort of hit a decent shot but rolled off green to the left side 15 paces but so up the hill, I was like, this is nice, two or three-foot out lied 70 -- made a couple of these before.  When I hit it, I thought, it's close, and right in the middle.
17, I missed my tee shot, definitely not the place to be in that bunker.  But I thought, if I could just get it up there, and one way or another, to see if I can put a bit of pressure on him to at least, again, not give him the hole.  I hit a good third shot.  Popped up a bit too much in the wind but again, tried to stay in the hole and got lucky because the chip never looked like it was going in until right at the end.  There we go.
Q. You'll tell me if I'm wrong, but across the week, you sound a bit surprised with how well you're performing.
ROBERT KARLSSON: Well, I missed five cuts in a row, but that's the way in this game.  Especially match play, frees up a little bit more.  It's a bit easier to stay in the moment.  It's a bit more of a mental game where you really, really have to stay in the present time and doesn't really matter if you hit two or three bad shots.  You're not carrying them with you the rest of the week.
It's been quite nice to play match play.  A couple weeks ago, I didn't really want to go.  I thought it would be better to go home and practise and just sort build a bit of my game.  But I thought, maybe a match-play tournament could help me a bit, so that's actually why I'm here.
Q. And feeling good with potentially 36 more holes to go, semifinals and final?
ROBERT KARLSSON: Definitely 36 holes to go, because the final is tomorrow.  It's good practise if nothing else, get a bit of cardio in tomorrow, another 36.
But it's great to be here on Sunday.  The way I played the last few weeks, I kind of looked at flights back to Charlotte Wednesday afternoon.  I played terrible in the Pro-Am.  But match play, it's a different thing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT