BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 21, 2015
Robert Karlsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on 5‑under par?   
ROBERT KARLSSON:   It was nice to putt a good round together.   Struggling a little bit lately so it was nice to keep it going through the whole 18 holes.   It was good.  
   
 Q.   What made the difference today?   
ROBERT KARLSSON:   Probably a little bit more careful off the tee.   Hit a lot more 3‑woods.   It's important around here to keep the ball in play and it became the main focus.  
   
 Q.   Haven't seen you near the top for awhile?  
ROBERT KARLSSON:   I've had some good runs but I haven't played 72 holes good, but hopefully this is the start of a good run.  
   
 Q.   How is the pattern for the year?   I know you've been playing in the United States, presumably we'll see you a bit more in Europe?  
ROBERT KARLSSON:   It's a bit of everything.   I haven't played that much in America, a couple of events, but now it's going to be Europe for the rest of the year.  
   
 Q.   You're looking in general terms that the game is making good progress?   
ROBERT KARLSSON:   Yeah, it's all right.   
   
 Q.   Day one, you don't want to get carried away.   
ROBERT KARLSSON:   Yeah, many, many holes to play but I'm happy with today's round and keep improving on it.   
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts walking off the 18th green with a 67?   
ROBERT KARLSSON:   Very happy with a 67, great start to the tournament, so very happy.  
   
 Q.   Fantastic finish, as well, birdies at 16 and 18.   Do you see a birdie opportunity at 18 all the time?  
ROBERT KARLSSON:   With the new design, it's kind of tricky deciding on how you're going to play it.   It's a very, very demanding second shot.   I think the way I'm hitting it right now, it's probably a sensible way of giving myself a good wedge distance and see what happens.   
   
 Q.   What is the secret to playing well around this course?  
ROBERT KARLSSON:   Got to keep it in play off the tee.   The greens are not so easy to putt at the moment so it will have to be on the fairway to give yourself a proper chance.  
   
 Q.   We haven't chatted to you for a while.   How are you feeling about your game at the moment?   
ROBERT KARLSSON:   At the moment it has not been that great lately but it's coming around and really happy.   
   
 Q.   Sum that one up for us, because we didn't get to see much of it?  
ROBERT KARLSSON:   It was a good day, kept it together quite nicely and played solid but when I missed, I holed out nicely and it was a good run.   
   
 Q.   18, you had a nice approach shot.   
ROBERT KARLSSON:   It was about 85 yards to the flag and a little bit downwind, so it was a lob‑wedge, very nice.   
   
 Q.   You shot 62 here back in 2010, I remember you went home to Monaco thinking that you missed the cut and came back.   Do you always get good memories when you come back here?  
ROBERT KARLSSON:   That Sunday didn't good because I was tired but it's always great to be here.   It's a great event and definitely have a lot of good memories.  
   
 Q.   In your recent results, have you felt this coming?   
ROBERT KARLSSON:   Not really but that's this game, and you can just keep doing what you're doing and trying to improve on your game and some days it comes together.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT