OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 23, 2020
Robert Karlsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 69 today on what was a sporadic scoring day. How did you finds it?
ROBERT KARLSSON: Well to, make a good score today, you have to hit a lot of fairways or not in the deep rough, and if you do, hopefully can get it where you want it to. I was a bit lucky today. I hit it nicely and didn't make any mistakes. I was happy not dropping any shots today, so it was good.
Q. We heard running up to today how much more tougher the course is going to play with thicker fairways, etc. How much can you tell us this has changed in the years gone past?
ROBERT KARLSSON: Well, I would say over the last few years, the guys are hitting it so much further. The Tournament Committee, the players council, we had a lot of complaints last year. I think the cut here was 4-under, and Qatar, 5-under, something like that, and we just said, set it up harder and we did that.
Last year, we had a lot more fringe around the greens. There's a lot more -- the greens played much bigger, even though the actual putting surface was the same, and the greens were fairly soft and we had no wind.
This year, obviously the course, it's hard and you have this wind and that's what happens. You never know. You can't control the weather. But the players wants this. There's going to be guys complaining. There's going to be guys feeling punished unfortunately from pretty good shots, and it's either that or you hit it anywhere. At the end of the day, this is how golf should be played.
Q. We saw your friend, Ryder Cup colleague, Lee Westwood take the victory in Abu Dhabi. How great and inspiring was it to see Lee after all these years still be -- we always hear about the young guys people are trying to keep up with?
ROBERT KARLSSON: He won one, was it last year or the year before in South Africa, so he's still playing very well. Last week, as well, was perfect for him. The fairways is narrower, and if you miss the tee shots, you're in problems, same as this week. Obviously that course is perfect for his game and he played very well. He's still very, very good and he showed that, well played last week. Hope he can keep it up and we see him in September.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT