ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 6, 2014
Robert Karlsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What is your verdict on presumably a pretty successful week?  
ROBERT KARLSSON:   A tough week and obviously very, very happy.   I've been playing pretty good over a few weeks so it's nice to put one together.   
   
 Q.   When you see the leader is so far ahead going into the final day, what are your thoughts, and now that you find yourself in such a prominent position?  
ROBERT KARLSSON:   I never even thought about the leader.   I go out there, and in conditions like this, you can shoot anything from a few under to 85.   So just go out and try to play your best and see what happens.   
It's just one of those days, you just have to take one shot at a time.   First time I actually looked at the leaderboard, I think I saw 15 or 16, something like that, so didn't really care.   With those four holes left, you can drop four or five in a heartbeat the last few holes, so wasn't really interested.   I needed to keep my round going.   
   
 Q.   You looked like you played with a lot of control in some very trying conditions.   
ROBERT KARLSSON:   Well, not always, but you try to do your best.   You try to pick your spots.   In one way, it's easier mentally because you just have to take the shots on.   You just have to play them.   It's so difficult to just pick your shots and try your best, and every ounce of energy you have goes on the next shot.   In one way, it's a bit more straightforward and it's right in front of you and you just have to play it.   
   
 Q.   You have some big weeks to come, so keeping the energy levels up?   
ROBERT KARLSSON:   I'm going to take an extra day off now and I'm going to play The Open.   It's nice, it's an extra bonus.   
   
 Q.   What does it mean to you to qualify for The Open Championship?  
ROBERT KARLSSON:   Well, first of all, I need an extra bit of rest next week, because next week is my fourth week in a row and now it's going to be five.   It's great to go into the Scottish and just know you're going to prepare for the British Open, and take a little bit more time off.   It's a great bonus to be there so really looking forward to that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT