WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 4, 2013
Robert Karlsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Doing well in the mix here, talk about going into Sunday. 
ROBERT KARLSSON:   Yeah, I played well.   I started out pretty well.   I birdied the first hole a few times so it's nice to come off to a good start and play well and manage to keep it going.   It's very testing conditions out there.   We've got a lot of wind and the greens are not easy to hole a lot of putts on.   So it's very important to keep patient and keep going because you never know what's going to happen.   If you get a good streak, it could be very good.

Q.   How do you think tomorrow moving those tee times up is going to change things?   It's obviously they're doing it for you guys to avoid the weather?
ROBERT KARLSSON:   For me, it's very good.   I'll sleep in my own bed tonight.   I live here.   It's obviously not ideal to tee off on Sunday at 7:00 o'clock in the morning, but we'll have to do what we can to get the round finished if the weather's going to be really bad.   We're getting used to this this year.   We've had a lot of bad weather, and we just need to deal with it. 

Q.   When did you move here? 
ROBERT KARLSSON:   It will be three years coming up.

Q.   How far away are you from here? 
ROBERT KARLSSON:   20 minutes.

Q.   How often do you play here? 
ROBERT KARLSSON:   I've played here probably five, six times this year, probably.

Q.   I know you talked a little bit about your round and everything, but it must be pretty cool to see your name on the leaderboard in your hometown. 
ROBERT KARLSSON:   Yeah, of course, it's nice.   I mean I haven't played that great lately, but I've worked very hard on my game and I'm happy with the way things are progressing.   So I'm satisfied (Indiscernible).   I was aware of the situation with the greens, and it didn't come as much of a surprise as it did to some of the other players, so it's fine.   Really, it's enjoyable to be out there and playing.

Q.   What is going well for you this week that has been the difference? 
ROBERT KARLSSON:   I think it's very hard to play a game (Indiscernible), you push to try to make those birdies and instead you come with a bogey.   And when you're making it and you're comfortable within yourself and playing within yourself, the good shots give you birdie chances and you usually take a few of them.   And if you are trying to push too hard on good shots, then you make pars.   One bad shot and you make bogey straight away and all of a sudden you're over par instead of just sort of plugging along. 
Actually the green speed and the conditions now actually helps me a little bit.   You can't be too aggressive on the greens.   You kind of have to play a little more sensible because you don't want to have too many putts from a bad position.

Q.   Do you feel you're a more patient person just having gone through the year you did?   I saw a quote where you said I had everything from Augusta to Q‑school?
ROBERT KARLSSON:   It's an interesting year last year, yes.   Yeah, I mean, I'm 23 years into it or however many years, so it was quite a year playing Augusta in April and playing Q‑school second stage even in November. 
So, yes I've learned to take the good with the bad.   I had a very, very good one in 2006.   (Indiscernible) as long as I don't get too (Indiscernible).

Q.   Do you think you were pressing too much last year and now you're a little more relaxed? 
ROBERT KARLSSON:   Yeah, I mean, when things are not going well, it's very easy to play too hard and get in your own way and make silly mistakes.   I think most players experience that when they're trying too hard.   Obviously, the tournaments are running out and you're in the bottom of the leaderboard and bottom of the money list.   It is a tense situation this year so far, but it doesn't bother me as much as last year.   I know if I can just turn my game around, I'll be fine.   If I'm not fine here, I'll be fine here. 

Q.   Are you working with a sports psychologist? 
ROBERT KARLSSON:   I started working with Gio Valiante a little bit so that's helped a little bit.   I worked with the same lady for many years, and we just lost our relationship a few weeks ago.   It was mutual from both sides.

Q.   I think there were people who worried for you at the British Open that you may not‑‑
ROBERT KARLSSON:   Why was that? 

Q.   But you seem to have conquered that. 
ROBERT KARLSSON:   Well, I mean I literally couldn't get the ball up.   (Indiscernible) yeah, just started to take the game by the horns, and I went home and talked to Sergio and other people and just started from the beginning.   I teed up wedges.   I just walked up to the ball, whatever happens, the ball's going to go.   (Indiscernible) I talked to Garcia, didn't matter if it was the hundredth chance in a row, the ball was going to come away. 
I was not going to regrip no matter if I had a hundred chances.   The problem we have is the seasons are so long, you can conquer it but it takes time and we never really have time.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT