BMW MASTERS
October 26, 2012
Robert Karlsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Could that have been even better?   
ROBERT KARLSSON:   Well, I shouldn't complain, shooting 64.   I was lucky a couple of times.   I hit a few bad shots and got a way with it, so it's one of those days.   I had a few chances I missed.   No complaints.   
   
 Q.   You were 8‑under through 11; what were you thinking at that point?   
ROBERT KARLSSON:   Making six birdies in a row, I was just trying to not get too far ahead of myself.   This is a very difficult golf course and there's a lot of hard holes at the end.   So just try to stay in the present and try to make birdies on the next holes coming up.  
   
 Q.   Tough day with more wind, as well.   
ROBERT KARLSSON:   I think for us, yesterday when we played, I was early off yesterday morning and it was raining quite heavily but a couple of holes we played were very, very tough.   
   
 Q.   Tell us about that, if you would.   
ROBERT KARLSSON:   That was a bit of a funny one.   I hit a couple of really, really poor drives which I got away with, and made a lot of quality shots, as well, a lot of irons close to the flag.   Made a lot of easy birdies, but obviously knocked in one or two, as well, which happens if you're going to shoot 64.   I think in the end, it was pretty fair.   I probably should have dropped a couple but I had a good chance to knock in a couple others, as well.   
   
 Q.   And a funny one because that run of birdies, while terrific with six in a row, you didn't really make most of the par 5s which is unlike you.   
ROBERT KARLSSON:   Yeah, actually I played them quite poorly.   15 I played well but the other ones, I hit bad tee shots on 13 and 3.   
   
 Q.   And with the run of birdies, presumably you're chuckling to yourself and thinking, what might be?   
ROBERT KARLSSON:   Yeah, always you're trying to ‑‑ but it's very important to stay in the present and just try to play the next hole and the next hole and the next hole.   
I think it was actually a personal record having six in a row in a tournament, so that was good fun.   And had a good chance on 12, as well.  
   
 Q.   And what led to, what 8‑under through 11, which makes it disappointing in the end, or you can't be disappointed with a 64?  
ROBERT KARLSSON:   No, not disappointed.   Made a good up‑and‑down on 18 and 17 is no easy hole, and I made a bad tee shot on 16.   So at the end of the day, very, very happy with 64.  
   
 Q.   I take it it's about time we've seen you at the top of the leaderboard, isn't it?   
ROBERT KARLSSON:   Yes.   
   
 Q.   There have been some decent signs.   
ROBERT KARLSSON:   Yeah, my play the last few weeks has been showing some signs.   Doesn't show in the scorecards but at least for myself it felt better.   Things have been sort of coming around, a stretch of six or eight holes, or I play a couple of bad ones and it doesn't show.   But it's nice to play decent.   
   
 Q.   And I take it that's a lot of hard work since The Open and your decision there?   
ROBERT KARLSSON:   Yeah, definitely.   I think I played‑‑ I don't know how many events since then, but I haven't had more than probably one or two breaks more than two days out of golf which is quite unlike me because I'm trying to get a lot of rest when I'm not playing.   
   
 Q.   Certainly big events to come?  
ROBERT KARLSSON:   Well, not for me.   Not for me.   I'm not in next week, and I'm going back to play Disney.   I haven't got my card in America, so I'm going to have to play in Tour School, so for me it's not that much‑‑ but could be a bit of a clash, but we'll see.   The most important thing for me is to keep improving.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT