PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2011
Robert Karlsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Start of the day five behind, eagled 12 to get within one; did you know, because you don't always look at boards.   
 ROBERT KARLSSON: No.   
  
  Q. What was the target then from then on? You knew you were going well.   
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Try to make par, that's really what you try to do on a course like this. You can't really push too much. You try and sort of play to give yourself putts to most of the holes and if one rolls in, that's a bonus. Everything from 13 and in is hard holes, so trying to play them and give yourself chances.  
  
  Q. You gave the putt at 17 a real run, was that an attempt to make a birdie at that stage?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: I know I hit that putt on the practice rounds. I know it's extremely quick down there, but it's quicker than I thought.  
  
  Q. You've completed the set, you have a Top-10 in all four majors; that must give you some heart I imagine.   
 ROBERT KARLSSON: That's always nice to have.  
  
  Q. Are you game to win one of these?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yes, after today, it's probably the first time I can say to myself, I am good enough to win one of these. Obviously it helps -- I know I've played against them many, many times and that I have beaten them on several occasions, so obviously it's way easier to see it, it's been done. When Darren does it -- it's different if Tiger does it every time he shows up and feels a bit harder, but now it is possible.   
  
  Q. Beautifully played round of golf, let's start with the eagle on 12 that puts you right in contention; take us through the round from that point.  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: I hit a driver and 6-iron to six feet on No. 15 and knocked it in which was obviously nice. Then I didn't really hit great shots, but when I had chances, just didn't go in, and 15 was a great chance. That putt was really, really close to going in.   
 16 I was a bit unlucky, hit a great drive but when I came up, it landed just underneath the trees on the fairways. There was quite a bit of mud on the ball and when it came out, it was lower left and not much I could do about that.   
 Yeah, those sorts of things happen. Then I hit a 3-putt on 17. Obviously tried to hole it but I know it was an extremely quick putt down there, but it just fooled me. I know it was very quick, because I played -- I put it a couple of times in the practice round but still caught me out a little bit and 18 is the par 5.   
  
  Q. Is the finish on your mind?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: I have played the last four holes over the week probably a couple over and I made bogey on 18 at the time so I think it has -- under par on 15 and 17, and I might be under par on 16 as well.   
 So it has not bothered me that much. Obviously 18 is a really, really hard hole but it's hard for everyone.   
  
  Q. Did you have a number in mind after you made the eagle at 12, that you could post a number and give Dufner something to think about?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: No, I just kept make. It's very easy in those kind of conditions to get ahead of yourself and start to think about what could happen and not could happen, so I tried to avoid the leaderboards and just play.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT