WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 5, 2011
Robert Karlsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 68-65. How did your game compare today to yesterday?
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Probably played -- I hit some better iron shots today, but I hit some better drives -- I hit some better drives yesterday, as well, but the back nine yesterday was actually excellent. The front nine yesterday was a bit rocky, so I've played well since the front nine yesterday. 

 Q. You've played here five times before and not been inside the top 20. Is it a course that generally doesn't suit your eye?
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Thankfully, I have a new caddie, and he said, your game should work here. I just haven't done it before. Alastair is helping a lot in changing around ideas about this golf course. 
 I've become a bit defensive off the tee and played a bit too careful and made it harder for myself. If it works, it works. If you hit it in trouble with a 3-wood or a driver, it doesn't make a difference, you're in trouble anyway. I'm just trying to take on a bit more. 

 Q. You joined the PGA TOUR this year for the first time. How is that working out for you?
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, all right. It's warmer here than in Europe, that's for sure. But we live over here now with the family, so we're happy. 

 Q. Three majors in America, three World Golf Championships in America. Does it give you a better chance to win those being here all the time?
 ROBERT KARLSSON: It feels a little bit more like home, so yes.

 Q. How do you fancy your chances this weekend?
 ROBERT KARLSSON: There's a lot of good players up here. I'm looking forward to the weekend and not being first off in this tournament, which I've been here many times. 

 Q. We've been talking about all day that sometimes it's not the birdie putts that keep the round going but it's the par-saving putt. You've got to talk about that big par at 7. 
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, I hit a poor tee shot in the bunker right and didn't really have much of a bunker shot, but I hit it to 20 feet, was probably the best I could do, and holed it from there. That's definitely on a golf course like this, you will miss a number of shots, and then it's going to be difficult to make a par. But if you keep knocking in a couple of those, it keeps the round going and the temper very good.

 Q. After that putt, knocking it in for par, making that bomb on 8. 
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, it was a bit of a bonus to knock that one in. I had a lot of fun out there and starting to see the lines on the greens. I mean, I'm just enjoying putting on pure golf greens, so it's fun.

 Q. And especially the way that you're hitting the driver, you've been pounding that driver, at least the last few holes that I saw. That drive on No. 9, that was ridiculous. 
 ROBERT KARLSSON: I was drug tested yesterday, so I think I'm all right. (Laughter.)

 Q. Talk about that driver. What driver is that you're using and what shaft?
 ROBERT KARLSSON: It's a Titleist D3, the new one, and I love it. I've definitely put on a bit of distance with that one, and I've done from an 81/2 degree loft to a 71/2 degree loft the last couple weeks because I'm swinging a bit better, so I've definitely put on a bit of distance.

 Q. How much more confident does it make you around a golf course like this knowing that you like your driver and can put it in play?
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, obviously if you drive it well around here, it's a course which you can play. If you're not driving it well, you're going to have a very, very long day. I mean, I'm just trying to go out there and take it on a bit more and have fun out there, and it's worked so far. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT