U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 17, 2011
Robert Karlsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Did you have any idea of what you'd need to do to get to the weekend?
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Pretty much. I watched a little bit on TV in the morning, so I knew it was 5 early on. But I thought it would be 5 because yesterday it went back a little bit during the day, but it was very nice conditions today. When I knocked it in on the last, I was pretty happy, and I was told right after, yeah, you needed that one. 

 Q. Did that alter your approach to what you planned to do for the second round?
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Not really. If you're 8-over in a U.S. Open, you don't really look at a 6- or 7-under round. I just really wanted to go out and take it like a practice round because you can't ever practice playing these kind of golf courses. But if something happened and it started to go well -- I mean, I was 1-over after 4, so it didn't look that great. But make a few putts, and off you go.

 Q. Where did it turn around for you?
 ROBERT KARLSSON: When I holed a good par putt on 11. I was 6-over then, and going to 7-under with seven holes to play would not have been much help. But that was a good par save.

 Q. Then 18 --
 ROBERT KARLSSON: I hit a good drive on 18, and my second shot was very nice, and I hit it down to about 25 feet.

 Q. The issue now for everyone, catching Rory: 
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Well, at 4-over I'm really happy to be here. Rory is not really my aim. I'm very, very happy to get a chance to play another two rounds. I play my golf and that's enough. I'm very happy to be in it.

 Q. What are your thoughts? What's the thought process for the weekend?
 ROBERT KARLSSON: I just made the cut. You just try to play as best as you can. I'm here, which is a huge bonus. But the golf course, you can't take it on too much more. The golf course is set up -- you can hit it from the rough a little bit, but you cannot make a good score from the rough. You can make the odd par, but if you hit it in there too many times you will be punished. But I think it's a very, very fair setup, and if Rory is going to lose this, he's going to need a bit of help. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT