FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 9, 2011
Robert Karlsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. So Robert, lot of good memories from last year carries over into today?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah. I mean, it's great to be back here. You do remember the heat for sure. It's good to be back. I do like the golf course.  
  
  Q. What was working so well for you out there?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: I mean, yesterday I played in the practice round. So I learned quite quickly that you want to stay out of the rough and play the course from tee to green. Stay in the fairway as much as possible. Did a pretty good job of that.  
  
  Q. What kind of questions do the conditions bring into play? Obviously last year it was hot and did you well. Same deal here.  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, pretty much you make sure you're hydrated, drink a lot of water. Stay in the shade when it's possible. It's important not to waste energy getting angry with yourself. You need it all.  
  
  Q. Tomorrow what do you look forward to as far as playing in the morning? Hopefully a little breeze and maybe a little cooler.  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Probably a few holes tomorrow will be a little bit cooler. You got to keep going. Pretty straightforward golf course, but the way it's playing at the moment, definitely it's tough.  
  
  Q. Talk about today's round.  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: I played pretty well. I hit in the rough on the tee on the 1st and was lucky to stop the ball on the green. From there the focus was get the tee shots in the fairway and keep it going. Trying to hit as many greens as possible. Difficult golf course to play from the rough.  
  
  Q. Why is that?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: It's Bermuda rough. The ball is coming out and the greens are small and quite firm. You can't stop the ball from the rough.  
  
  Q. How do you feel about your chances of teeing off in the morning?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: The morning round is usually a little bit easier for people. That's when it's not as hot and the greens are usually even better in the morning. So at the end of the day, you got to play 18 holes. You have to do well in this tournament and play well.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT