THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2011
Robert Karlsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Good playing. I think you said at Charlotte, Ron Green told me last week in Charlotte he asked you how you'd been playing and you said really, really well, alt though you're probably not happy with the final result, I guess you've been building towards this. 
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, you don't know when things are coming around, but I have played pretty well. And it's been a little bit disappointing the way the scores have been going this spring, but it's a very important game to keep your patience and keep going. 
 Today, I made a bunch of good par saving putts and putted well in general.

 Q. Has there been one part of your game that's been keeping you from posting really good numbers? 
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, the short game and the putting hasn't been that great. It's a bit different here from what it is in Europe. So I've been struggling a little bit with that. 
 But at the end of the day I know that it's usually one of my strengths, so I knew I could sort of get it back, it was just to keep going.

 Q. You've had some success here, you were what, 6th a couple years ago? 
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, I like this golf course. I don't remember which year it was, but I did play quite well here a few years back.

 Q. The difference in your short game is that just a product of green speeds and set-ups or can you be more specific there? 
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, the greens are quicker here. The greens are a little bit more demanding in general, so you have to be more precise. That's just the way it is. A good chip in Europe when the greens are slower would tend stop three feet form the flag and here it's six or eight feet from the flag, so we just have to be better.

 Q. The course conditions change dramatically from yesterday to this morning? 
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Not today, no. It was quite nice. Probably a little bit softer greens today. So much humidity in the air, so I don't think they will be very firm, not now anyway.

 Q. You're playing some new places, I imagine that you've never been, seeing people you've never met, playing with some guys you've never played with before. 
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, it hasn't been that many new courses. It's only been one. Getting to another one next week in Colonial, so looking forward to that. 
 I'm enjoying it. We're here now with the family, and everyone in the family's very happy, so it's great.

 Q. School's all plugged and all that stuff? 
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Everything's going well.

 Q. You moved at the end of last year? 
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Uh-huh.

 Q. You were telling me this is not a one-year deal, this is a commitment for you? 
 ROBERT KARLSSON: No, if you do this kind of move across the Atlantic, you don't do it for six months. You've got to take the decision to do it and go for it.

 Q. What do you like about this course? It's a lot more tactical, not just reach for the driver and all that stuff? 
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, it's a good mixture. A Pete Dye golf course is always quite demanding off the tee, and you have to hit ball the clubs in the bag. It doesn't usually make a whole bunch of really long par-5s, so I think it's -- you have to hit all the different shots and use all the clubs in the bag, and that's really interesting.

 Q. Do you feel like that plays to your strengths?
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Probably not so much today, but I putted well. But I like that type of golf course. It's fun to play them. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT