COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
February 4, 2011
Robert Karlsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You gave yourself a lot of opportunities today?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, I did. I played better today than I did yesterday actually, and it was obviously way easier conditions. But keep hitting quite good shots, so I'm happy with where I am.   
  
  Q. Do you take a look at the leaderboard and keep a check on what's going on around the course?   
 ROBERT KARLSSON: When you're off late in the afternoon, you don't know what the other guys are doing but it doesn't really make a big difference. You try to keep on going, and so many holes to play and a lot of things could happen. It doesn't really make a difference on the Friday.  
  
  Q. You played better golf today; why was that and what part of your game was better?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Obviously it was a lot easier today. It was easier to keep the balance, especially when you're as tall as I am. When it's that windy, it not so much fun. In general, I did give myself a lot of chances. I hit a lot of good quality shots into the greens.   
  
  Q. You must be feeling particularly positive right now, after last week's result and coming here as defending champion; do all of these things help?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, it does, obviously if you play well coming into a tournament, it sort of keeps you in a positive move. So definitely I'm very happy with where I am, especially this early in the season after having a long break.   
 I played well, way better today than I did yesterday. I hit a few really, really good shots, short irons and better hit on the ball. But it's also easier today because you can actually keep the balance way easier. Yesterday was a struggle, so I'm happy.   
  
  Q. I take it you were buffeted by the wind on the first circuit?   
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, I really struggled on the last few holes; it was super, super windy.   
  
  Q. But, you've come around in a terrific score today with winds that were half the speed of yesterday I guess had?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: If that. If that. But like I say, there's a lot of low scores out there, but a few under par on this golf course is not bad no matter what the conditions are.   
  
  Q. Nice continuation of Bahrain?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, it would be nice to get to 17 (laughing).  
  
  Q. Getting your game in shape, you sometimes have one good day, one bad.   
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, it's a funny game, you can hit a lot of good golf shots and still come up with nothing. I guess that's why we love the game and hate the game at the same time.  
  
  Q. Is there something about this track that just makes it good for previous champions? You're defending your title, Retief Goosen, Darren Fichardt, Paul Lawrie likewise?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: I think when you come back to a tournament and a course that you have won previously, it brings back nice memories. I have done pretty well here before, as well, even if I have not won the tournament before last year.   
 So I do like this golf course and everything is first-class, the golf course, the conditions of the golf course is fantastic and everything around this tournament is very, very well organised. It makes it easy to play golf.  
  
  Q. Is there something about the very nature of the course, as well; that some players just thrive on it?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, but that's hard to point out, because I wish I could find it and have it on other courses, as well.   
  
  Q. It's a difficult one to point out; you certainly play well in the wind and we always expect some wind here?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, there's always wind here. I like that, but not like yesterday. We don't need too much of that. But at the same time, playing in a day like yesterday, you learn a lot. You can very easily see your weaknesses and tests your mental stability.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT