BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 21, 2009
Robert Karlsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ROBERT KARLSSON: I had a few chances I missed and a few really good rescues.

 Q. What are your thoughts on the way the course played today?
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Well, it's good. It's set up difficult with lots of rough, but it's tricky around here. 

 Q. This is your first time on European soil this year, glad to be back?
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Definitely, very nice to be back and to come back to a course I played so well.

 Q. Does that make preparation easier when you come to a course you know so well?
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, it definitely does, you don't have to putt as much effort into finding out where to hit it and where not to hit it. It's almost a good thing and almost a bad thing.

 Q. You must have good and bad memories of each hole. 
 ROBERT KARLSSON: I'm trying to work on not bringing a lot of memories from bad golf shots back. It's very important to let go of those bad emotions. 

 Q. Thoughts on your round?
 ROBERT KARLSSON: It was all right. Happy to get around in 69. It could have been a bit better but it also could have been a lot course, so that was good. 

 Q. You had a strong finish last year; is the course to your liking? 
 ROBERT KARLSSON: It's a course where it's pretty clear what you want to do, and just got to do it. I've had quite a bit of success around here. I like this golf course, and I have had a couple of decent finishes in this event. It's a course that rewards good play and if you're playing good, it's great. If you're not punished, that's the sign of a good golf course.

 Q. What's the key to your round today? Where do you think it came together for you? 
 ROBERT KARLSSON: All in all I think I hit quite a few fairways, I think I hit ten fairways which is important around here. I holed a couple of really long putts and a chip, but then I missed a number of opportunities like on 18, so I think that evens out. 
 It's important on courses like this to just keep going, and don't get too caught up in what is happening and things like that. So it's actually quite a good, gentle stroll than yesterday, if you can call it that, but I enjoyed the day and it was good fun out there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT