PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 17, 2008
Robert Karlsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Tough pill to swallow at the end but it's a tough hole, isn't it?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, it is a tough hole. I missed the drive and all in all, it was a very good day, so I'm very happy with it. Going to play all 18, can't miss too much.   
  
  Q. Setup of the course, you said that if you miss a shot slightly, you if err to the side of caution it will catch you out.   
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, it would be, there's a lot of heavy rough out there, so if you hit it, it will cost you.  
  
  Q. The Order of Merit and other issues, what's your focus this weekend?   
 ROBERT KARLSSON: This week and this week alone and obviously if I play well -- but with two days to go, focus on these two days to come.  
  
  Q. Normally the month after The Ryder Cup match is the most difficult; how have you managed to turn it in your favour?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Actually I was really happy with the way I played there. I had a week off and felt like I had enough rest to get away from it and also that I could sort of keep going on momentum. I played really, really well there and turned it around and felt I played better there than the German tournament I won so keep on from there.  
  
  Q. Looking at the board you're right where you want to be, aren't you?   
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, it's great. Hit a lot of good shots today and still think I can do better but it was nice to get it going a bit more. Yesterday I was struggling, so that was great.   
  
  Q. Scoring about what you thought it would be when you practised?   
 ROBERT KARLSSON: I didn't really pay too much attention. It's always hard to predict it. But when I heard it was a lot more rough, I thought it would be lower -- higher scores. But then when I played it, and I saw they are still fairly generous, if you play well -- yeah, very soft. The greens are very soft. So it's not too bad.   
 Probably expecting a couple of guys, if you hit it really well, are going to shoot low scores. But if you look all of a sudden, you're 6-under.   
  
  Q. Stuart Manley, struggling for a card, never had a Top-10 finish, how difficult will that be given the opposition?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Depends on where he gets stuck with his focus. It's important for him to not get too caught up in winning or the card. I was a little worried when I saw him on the driving range. That's not really the way to prepare for the third day to sit there hitting drivers. It's usually when you're in the lead, you're not very used to it, so run from here and go home and rest. We'll see how he goes. His experiences, hopefully he can put it off, but you never know.   
  
  Q. You would get away, and even if you wanted to practise, you wouldn't practise?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Very little. Get away as soon as you can. Because especially if you've not been there that often, it's quite easy, everybody coming around saying well played and well played and well played, and all of a sudden, you're only halfway and you can still finish sixth. I've done it as well, not from leading but at least being Top-5.  
 It's so important not to get too caught up in what's happening right now and especially the situation that he is in.   
  
  Q. Your physical level and your mental level at the moment still pretty strong?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: It's all right.  
  
  Q. Not waning?   
 ROBERT KARLSSON: It isn't like I wish it should be. But at the same time, as long as you play to sort of what you have, and don't waste your energy on getting too upset and those sort of things and get away with it.   
 Sometimes it's a bit tough but it's harder when you've played -- when there's been a lot happening. It's a great place to be.  
  
  Q. Is the main change in you --  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, the way I handle myself on the golf course and the way I think about shots and how much more relaxed I am with missing shots and hitting good shots and stuff like that. All of a sudden, you put yourself in this situation, so you're going to make a mistake when you're there. But you can keep progressing from there and it's okay.   
  
  Q. Wentworth still a keep moment to turning it around, your level of frustration -- Portuguese Open?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: Yeah, because I felt like the more I practised, the better I go, but the worse I played on the course.   
 So I put more pressure on myself, and the more I practised the better I felt and when I left the golf course, it was like, well, if I can't play good now, there's got to be something wrong with me, and I felt it. But I practised and I could shoot really low scores but in tournaments I shot 72s and 73s and struggled to make the cut. Obviously I had my occasional weeks because I won five times up to then, but it wasn't the solid play that I had when I was training and practicing, so I knew there was something wrong.   
 As I said, I've been working a lot on getting more relaxed and really, really sort of tried to change the focus on what I'm doing on the course instead of chasing thoughts, just really focusing on things that I can control, my reactions on the golf course, my actions off the golf course, as well, so I come here fresh and stuff like that.   
  
  Q. Did you keep an eye on what Padraig was doing in the it Grand Slam of Golf earlier this week?  
 ROBERT KARLSSON: I saw it but I think he lost in a playoff, didn't he.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT