NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 5, 2014
Rod Thorn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Miami Heat - 95
      San Antonio Spurs - 110 
  
    ROD THORN:   It was warm.   In live sporting events, you know, sometimes you're going to have things transpire.   I can recall playing in games in Boston Garden, I can recall playing in games in Chicago Stadium and also being the general manager of teams that played under conditions where the court‑‑ where the atmosphere in the arena was very hot.   
    What you are looking for is to make sure that the conditions on the court are fine, and in this case there was no one slipping.   Once the game starts, it's in the hands of the referees.   Had the referees felt at any time or had I felt at any time ‑‑ I was sitting the second row midcourt ‑‑ were such that the game shouldn't be continued, then they would have come over and said something to me.   Never did, I never said anything to them regarding the fact that the game should be cancelled.   
    You know, again, in live sporting events, sometimes things transpire that you don't expect.   Obviously the conditions were the same for both teams, and it's just one of those unfortunate things.   Obviously you would like to have the air conditioner where it normally is and play the game under those conditions, but tonight, you know, it wasn't like that.   The game continued and the game was played.   
   
 Q.   Rod, at any point at halftime did you guys considering delaying the half to see if you could do anything about it?   
    ROD THORN:   There wasn't anything to be done about it.   We ascertained that very early.   You could tell‑‑ I could tell at mid‑court seven minutes left in the first quarter that it was very, very warm.   The people sitting around me said they thought it was warmer certainly than normal.   
    But, no, there wasn't any‑‑ we didn't anticipate‑‑ because we were told that there wasn't anything that could be done about it.   So we didn't think at halftime that something was going to be able to be fixed.   
    As I said, it's one of those unfortunate things that happen in live sporting events.   
   
 Q.   Did you get any kind of detailed explanation about what went wrong?   And how confident is the arena or the NBA that it's going to be fixed by Game 2?   
    ROD THORN:   The explanation was that the air conditioning system essentially failed.   We have from tonight until Sunday‑‑ or they have from tonight until Sunday to get it fixed.   We do not foresee any problems at all some Sunday.   We think it will be fixed come Sunday and we will be able to play under normal conditions.   
   
 Q.   Rod, in the unlikely event that it doesn't get fixed, is there any contingency for another building or venue to play Game 2 or would you just play it here?   
    ROD THORN:   Well, you know, at this time it is our feeling very strongly that it will be fixed and there will not be a problem.   If something were to transpire over the course of, let's say, tomorrow, where we felt maybe we wouldn't be able to play for some reason, then obviously we would look at something else.   
    But as of right now we feel as I said, very strongly that the condition will be taken care of, and we'll be able to play on Sunday without any problem.   
    THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, Rod.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT