WGC EMC WORLD CUP
November 18, 2001
Toshi Izawa
Shigeki Maruyama
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TOSHI IZAWA:  Well, looking back at the four days, rounds, this is not the game of the individual; it is a partnership.  The difficulty was to have, like today's match, the timing and the rhythm.  But I learned a lot playing the tournament for four days, and the two of us being together was okay. 

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  Well, looking back on the four days, if I made a little bit more putts, like two birdie putts for a total of four birdies, then could I have joined the top groups.  Izawasan played well, and at the end of this golf season, I think I tried my best and I did well, too.  There was a lot of pressure for playing as the Japan team, and for the fans of Japanese golf, I think I was able to show a little bit of golf for the fans.  For next year, I believe that Izawasan is going to be Japan's representative, so if I can play with him for the next year in Mexico, then not only will I enjoy the Mexican food, but I will enjoy the World Cup golf trophy.  About the No. 6 hole, Izawasan had the tee shot, left-hand side fairway, and the lie was a little bit downhill.  Also, there were trees, so I hit a shot, tried to aim at the pin, but there was a lake.  So I tried to avoid the lake, but it went in the right-hand side.  Distance-wise, it was a very difficult distance for me.  I admit, that was a mis-shot.  So I have to have a better swing to be able to have that kind of a shot. 

Q.  How did you feel to be on the first tee on the final day and also playing with the No. 1, No.  2 and No. 3 holes? 

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  As usual.  Nothing much different. 

Q.  You played the first round with the U.S. team and the second day with South Africa and then the third, New Zealand.  Is there any difference that you can tell? 

TOSHI IZAWA:  It's probably around the greens and on the greens, distance-wise and also, the accuracy.  It's not a matter of  -- it doesn't have much difference with us.  But around the green and on the green, it costs us a stroke each day, which will begin the distance, the difference between the top group and our scores. 

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  I played overseas, and the field is so different.  Probably the top players will increase their condition as they play four days.  Even when they miss a shot, they will make it a positive; that is the strongest of the leading players.  This week, we played at the Japanese golf course, so we were able to shoot driver and miss the fairway.  But when you play in the States, the golf courses are tougher.  That will really make a difference with the top players.  Looking back and playing with Izawa this week, Izawasan doesn't have much difference with the top players.  He is, I think, a very good player and competitive with the U.S. or South African team.  Balance-wise, the U.S. team and South Africa are the top teams, and all of the other teams individually almost have the same strengths. 

Q.  Can you look back at the four days you spent here and what the fans have seen? 

TOSHI IZAWA:  It's different to have so many spectators and they gave us a lot of excitement this week.  I wish I could play like Tiger, to have more excitement.  In the future, I would like to show a lot of good play to the spectators. 

SHIGEKI MARUYAMA:  I enjoyed playing golf this week with top-ranking super players.  When I play in the States, it's not much; I'm expecting like 13,000 and 14,000 spectators, like this week in Japan.  And that's because of all of the powers, not only soccer and baseball.  But it was a good tournament to show the Japanese people that we are playing with the top players.  This is going to be a good example for the future and it was a very good event for us. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT