WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC POOL A: TOKYO
March 2, 2009
Chen Lee
Che-Hsuan Lin
Chin-Hsien Yeh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. First of all, the question for all three of you, arriving in Japan, and you have three days to go to the opening game. What is in your mind right now?   
 CHIH-HSIEN YEH: I am so happy to be representing this tournament. I am so honored, and Opening Day is a very much exciting game.   
 CHEN LEE: Today's tournament, I am so excited. I am focusing to concentrate on my performance.   
 CHE-HSUAN LIN: I am so honored to be elected to this team. I will hustle and try to do my best that I can.   
  
  Q. I have a question to the manager. Now, WBC is coming near. How is your team and player's condition?   
 CHIH-HSIEN YEH: Well, to participate in this tournament, is very exciting, and since we knew that we were going to be participating up to now, and after arriving in Japan, the players' condition is improving day-by-day. Our players are approaching to the condition that we aim at for the feel games.   
  
  Q. In the tournament, you have a lot of potential to play against Team Japan. Question for all of you, the impression of Team Japan.   
 CHIH-HSIEN YEH: Yes, the Japanese baseball quality and example is so high, especially these kind of important international matches. They play very good baseball with their very best players, that's for sure.   
 Generally, generally speaking, we are a little bit behind of Japan, but we are trying to do our best.   
 CHEN LEE: The impression of the Japanese team is they are very strong. But my impression, when I pitch, I have to take care of all the individual players one by one.   
 CHE-HSUAN LIN: The Japanese team has a lot of good players, both in a defensive way and in an offensive way, but this is an elimination tournament, but sometimes in baseball, sometimes happen funny things, so I will try to do my best.   
  
  Q. What is your target and goal for the WBC?   
 CHIH-HSIEN YEH: The target is, of course, a victory. We, of course, need to and want to proceed to the next round, and we will give it all to do that.   
 CHE-HSUAN LIN: My goal is, of course, to go to the United States for the next round. And, of course, the ultimate goal is to become the champion, and we need to move towards that step-by-step.   
 CHEN LEE: I will try my best so that we can advance to the next round.  
  
  Q. The first game, you play against the Korean team. What's your impression of the Korean team? What's your game plan, how will you play, stuff like that, can you tell us, please?   
 CHIH-HSIEN YEH: Yes, the Korean team, they are one of the best baseball teams in the Asian region, and as we all know, they are the champion of the 2008 Olympic Games. It is going to be a tough game. The impression of Korea is their team is like our team. Our tactics is trying to get the victory to play baseball.   
  
  Q. You played against the Koreans in the primary round in the Beijing Olympics, what was the impression, if there's any tough opponent from the Korean team, can you name some?   
 CHEN LEE: The Korean baseball team, in an offensive way, they look like the Japanese team. They have very solid, quality players.   
 I have to pay attention to all hitters, not individually, but all hitters. I have to be very careful pitching.   
  
  Q. Now, when you played against Cuba in the Beijing Olympics, you pitched very well. Have you gained more confidence after playing against Cuba? Because that was a big international match.   
 CHEN LEE: Yes, you can say that. You asked me about how confident I am. Actually, I have been confident ever since I played baseball at school when I was small.   
 Confidence is not something that is given to me overnight. That is something that I build up day by day.   
  
  Q. Chinese Taipei lost in the Beijing Olympics and this is going to be the restart for your team. Can you talk about this Tokyo round of the WBC? Are you going to play as a must-win game for all three, or are you planning to concentrate that this game must be a must-win game, not a must-win game, or will you equally try to put players on all levels?   
 CHIH-HSIEN YEH: This round, I am asking all of my players, no matter who we play against, we play to do our best.   
 Baseball, no one knows the future of baseball. The result is unknown until the game is over. So all three games are important, and all three games we are focusing on 100%.   
  
  Q. Who do you think will give you more threat, and have you prepared yourself particularly for the Korean team? How have you prepared yourself? And would do you think will start for team Korea when they play against you?   
 CHIH-HSIEN YEH: As I said earlier, that baseball is always sometimes surprising and it's a funny game.   
 You asked whether some players might give me a threat, but you never know if players are going to be a particular threat in a game they play against us. So everybody could be a threat.   
 So the game plan is the most important priority to us. So the opening game for us is a game against Korea, and in terms of the starter, the starting pitcher, I will talk to the pitching coaches. And I've been talking to them, but we have not decided who we will start.   
 We have to determine the condition of the pitchers and also we have to see how their condition will be on the day before or actually the day of the game, and who is the best. That's something that is very important to us to decide the starter for that particular game.   
  
  Q. I am not sure if this is a good question for the skipper or not, but I heard that one or two of the players, that the bulk of your team, is not cooperating to send national team players. Does it affect any of your team making or not?   
  
CHIH-HSIEN YEH: Yes, attending the WBC team, representing our region, yes, the fact is I didn't have enough backup cooperating from a couple of ballclubs, that's a fact.   
 But I understand they are worried about their players condition. I guess I understand their situation in case of injuries. So I don't blame anyone if we have some key players lacking.   
 But this is a great opportunity for younger players, and that's why we are selecting lots of young players, whom this opportunity will give my younger players to play, and this tournament will go on for us in the future.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT