MONTREAL CHAMPIONSHIP
June 23, 2012
Mark Calcavecchia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DAVE SENKO:   Maybe just a quick run down of your day, and then it looks like five birdies.  
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:   Yeah, very similar to yesterday really.   I think I had five birdies yesterday, but I made a few bogeys, and then today I managed to get around without any bogeys.   
I probably drove it a little bit better today.   Although I still didn't hit many fairways.   If anything, I missed the fairways by a foot, so left with L‑wedge instead of being able to control one in there with spin.   If you seriously want to try to get your iron shot close, you'd better be in the fairway.   
Although I drove it a lot better, I still didn't hit too many fairways, but putted well today and made a couple of real nice pars on the front nine that really helped and kind of kept the round going.   
DAVE SENKO:   Your birdies, No. 3, do you remember the shot sequence?   
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:   Yeah, No. 3, I hit a 3‑wood off the tee in the fairway, a nice sand wedge and one‑hopped it in there about ten feet behind the hole and made that for birdie.   
No. 8, par 3, hit a great 8‑iron.   Yesterday I hit a 7‑iron in there two feet.   Today I hit 8‑iron in there about four feet.   So I like that hole.   Made that.   
11th hole, par 5, I hit a driver.   Missed the fairway by a foot again but it actually helped me because I hit a flyer 3‑wood and was able to get it there and hit it on the green about 30 feet past the hole and 2‑putted.   
Next hole, I hit it in the left rough, but had a good lie but played to the right of the hole, again because I was in the rough and hit a good shot about 20 feet, which is where I was trying to hit it with a sand wedge and happened to make that.   
Then on 16, I hit my best drive of the week, middle of the fairway, just had a 6‑iron to the green, and hit a great shot.   It was just literally ten feet right of the hole and it caught the edge of the ridge and rolled all the way down the hill.   But tried to putt that up the hill and kind of chunked it a little bit.   I was lucky it got to the edge of the green.   Then I made the 15‑footer for birdie and parred the last two.   
The one on 5 was, again, missed the fairway by a foot, which was okay.   Hit a 3‑wood and hit it dead right and it kicked right and went into the trees in the bush/gorse stuff.   It was barely findable.   So I tried to gash that out of there with a sand wedge and figured I was just going to get it in the front bunker.   And that thing shot out of there like it was out of the fairway.   It was just really heavy weed and I thought I would have to swing it as hard as I could just to get it out of there.   It shot out over the bunker on the back left of the green on the downslope of the bunker, really hard bunker shot.   I kind of got it out there about 12 feet from the hole and made that for par.   
14, I hit a bad iron shot.   Had a tough putt over a ridge and got that up‑and‑down and made par.   So I could have bogeyed that hole.   Other than that, it was pretty solid.   I hit a 4‑iron off the tee and 8‑iron to the green and didn't hit a very good slot.   Had to go up over a hump with a lot of break and it went the other way.   It was a tough up‑and‑down, but I putted it from off the green and left it about five feet short but I made that one for par.   
   
 Q.   You have a chance for a Canadian triple tomorrow; what would that mean to you?  
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:   I don't know if anyone has ever heard of a Canadian triple, but you just invented it.   (Laughter).  
Vancouver, two wins there, and the Canadian Open in 2005.   I don't remember what the name of the tournament was in'97.   It was at Northview Country Club.   What was it called?   Air Canada Championship?   I remember the year and I remember everything about it.  
You know, I had some chances at Glen Abbey, but obviously I play well north of the border for some reason.   Long way to go.   We'll see what happens tomorrow.   We'll talk about it tomorrow if I happen to get the job done.   
Looking forward to playing with Bob, and I'm not sure who else is going to be in our group.   Bob has had a great round today.   Looks like he's playing well.   
So you know, same sort of thing tomorrow.   Just go out and try to hit as many fairways as I can and today I only birdied two par 5s, yesterday only one, so I've only played the par 5s 3‑under.   So if I can at least birdie three of them tomorrow, if not four of them, I should set myself up to have a pretty good day.   I think that's pretty much the key.   
   
 Q.   What do you think of Hale Irwin, 67 years old?   
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:   I had dinner with him the other night.   The guy looks like he's 47.   He has not aged in 20 years.   For the most part, I think he's pretty healthy.   He says when he swings a certain way that he knows he's supposed to swing, it hurts his back.   So he's got to pick and choose his places where he decides he wants to play well.   
He's phenomenal.   I've played with him quite a bit this year.   He's driving it as far as he ever has, at 67 years old, and hits it straight.   He's a control player.   This is a perfect course for him.   
But I thought Fred Funk would play great here, too.   It's his type of course.   Length has nothing to do with this course at all.   Just put the ball in the fairway and manage your way around the course, and that's generally not my strong suit but it is for Hale Irwin, and if we play together tomorrow, I'll be looking forward to it.   He's a Hall of Famer for a reason.   The guy is still really good.   
   
 Q.   Will you still be playing at 67?   
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:   Depends how broke I am at 67, or if I'm less broke, put it that way.   Not sure what my retirement will get me a month, but I know what it costs me to live a month right now.   
So the way I feel now, it's probably not going to happen.   My fingers hurt; arthritis, and my back is killing me, so we'll see.   I'm 40 pounds overweight.   There's a lot of issues I'm dealing with.   So 15 years from now, who knows what the hell I'm going to look like.   
I need to squeeze another 15 years out of my career, I think, you know.   I still enjoy going to places.   This bus we bought has really been a nice lifestyle change for us, as opposed to airplanes and flying and packing and unpacking and hotels and all that crap.   You're on your own schedule and it truly is your home on wheels.   You have your own bed and your mobile bar and your refrigerator and food and grill and everything.   You really don't have to leave it once you get to it, so it's nice.   
Actually my wife is in Columbus.   We drove up there from Birmingham, and spent all last week there, played some golf with friends and whatnot.   You know, there's too much hassle bringing it up here with dogs, and like I said, the mobile bar; I'm not about them to have them confiscate a case of champagne and ten bottles of red wine and a jug of vodka.   The bus is staying in the States.   
   
 Q.   What's your schedule?   
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:   I'm going to play every event we have out here.   Really the only non‑Champions Tour event I'm going to play is the British Open, which I can play until 60, and so I have eight more years of that.   That's at Royal Lytham, which I like, and then up to Turnberry.   So a great two‑week stretch over there.   
You know, we play a lot of tournaments here.   Our schedule, we didn't play more than two weeks in a row until last month really.   And now we are basically playing about ten out of 11 weeks.   You know, that's a lot.   
But you've got to play when you have a tournament.   I enjoy playing out here and playing with the guys.   I had a great group today, my neighbor, Olin Browne, and David Eger, who I really enjoy playing with.   All of these guys, they are just a lot of fun.   
DAVE SENKO:   Thanks, Mark.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT