SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 27, 2012
Mark Calcavecchia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Pretty good. 
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:   Yeah it was pretty good.   Obviously it was a nice day out there, greens were pretty soft. 
It was a weird week for me.   I was either awesome or ‑‑ I hit some shots this week I've never hit in my life.   I chunked three or four shots badly and then I would turn around and hit a 5‑iron six feet from the hole.   It was the weirdest thing. 
Five 3‑putts the first day, which I don't know if I ever had.   The first day was tough. 
Then I think as the week went along we started to learn the course a little bit better and the greens, they kept them plenty soft and not too fast so you could play around here.   The first day was just brutal because they were pretty firm actually and the wind was blowing 30 miles an hour.   So I'm kind of glad it wasn't like that all week. 
But as far as today goes, yeah, I think I hit every fairway but one and every green but one, or I missed two greens.   So it was a great day. 

Q.   Weather appeared to be all over the place all week long too. 
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:   It was.   The wind was coming from different directions all four days.   It was out of the south a little bit today.   It changed.   It was hot and windy and then it was cool.   And it was cold in the pro‑am, heavy rain showers.   All in although it was, I thought the PGA did a great job setting up the course.   They had a couple goofy pin placements, but I think they realized with the greens the way they are they had to be careful.   I think they did a pretty good job on the holes overall.

Q.   What did you think overall of Harbor Shores as a host for a Senior PGA Championship?
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:   Well I thought it was great.   Everybody will sit here and agree that it's an awesome golf course tee to green.   You just wouldn't think that you ‑‑ I don't know how you design greens like this, quite honestly.   The 10th green?   How does that even cross your mind?   It's baffling to me. 
But the holes are great, it's beautiful.   The crowds are great, they came out in support of this.   So, like I said, the PGA did a good job with the pin locations and keeping the greens soft, so we could play them.

Q.   Are you looking forward to coming back here in two years?
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:   Oh, yeah, I'll be back.   This is obviously a great way to end the week, so this will be in my memory bank for two years when I come back here, knowing that all in all I played pretty good this week and I had a good round Saturday and/or Friday rather and I just had that one catastrophe yesterday coming in playing the last six, 6‑over.   But then I knew I was playing ‑‑ I hit it great on the range this morning and knew I was going to play pretty good today. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT