U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 28, 2011
Mark Calcavecchia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 3-under par and in contention, got to feel like, okay, it's not --
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA: Yeah, good start. Scores were pretty good today. Quite a few tees were moved up. That might not happen the rest of the week. They probably had five or six tees up, so I think at least two or three of those will be further back. Is it supposed to rain here tonight? 

 Q. Possibly. 
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA: Yeah, so that might -- but still, as hot as it is they've got to keep the greens pretty soft. I think for the most part, you'll continue to see pretty good scoring the rest of the week. Probably not as good as today, but probably pretty good the rest of the week. 
 Q. You can get on a pretty good run with birdies. Does that play into your hands at all that you can kind of get a hot hand and maybe run the tables a little bit?
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA: Yeah, the good news is I seem to be able to read the greens pretty good. I had a few misreads on the front nine, but after that I was pretty much -- the greens are easily the slowest greens that we've putted in a USGA event in my lifetime that I remember. But again, with the rain and the heat, you can't dry them out, they'll die. It's like Congressional; they didn't get those how they wanted them, and the rough was light there. Pretty similar to here. Every time I hit it in the rough, which was often, I had a good lie, and most of them were on short iron holes. Some of the longer holes I hit my best drives on, so that was the good news.

 Q. Sluman said he got away with a 3-under hitting it in the rough a lot and that's not going to continue. 
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA: Well, like I said, you can hit it in the rough on 1 and 10 and 2 and 11 and you've got a wedge or a 9-iron. You can score still from there. But like 13, 14, 16, you need to hit those fairways for sure, and a couple holes on the front, a couple tougher par-4s on the front. 
 But it's a fun course to play. It's kind of -- seems short. I mean, the ball is going a long way today. It was just flying, so it seemed like it played pretty short today. But it's still tricky. I mean, you've got to play well, and if you start -- like Brad Bryant missed the green to the right on 18 and made triple, and I hit a flier and hit it over the green and made a miraculous up-and-down. There's just certain places you can't hit it here for sure, and I got away with one there.

 Q. How did you let what happened last week not carry over into this week? Did you just let that go?
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA: Oh, yeah. I mean, I had said over there, I knew somebody in the last couple groups was going to shoot a good score, and I was hoping it was me, and I had the next best score. Russ was 6-under through 10 and then just coasted in. He got off to a start hot, and like I said, he just coasted in and made all pars and a bogey and won by two. You know, I was disappointed for maybe an hour, but second was -- that bunker shot up-and-down on the last hole saved me about 70 grand, certainly eased the pain a little bit. Second wasn't too bad in that case. 
 So I came over here, long trip, but not too bad, and managed to play all 18 holes Tuesday. Was pretty tired, but yesterday just took it easy most all day and laid around all morning. I don't feel jet lagged or tired physically. Had it been 70 degrees I'd have had plenty of energy. The heat just -- I sweat a lot. I've got the sweat bands on. I got a little tired, a little sloppy the last four holes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT