THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 24, 2011
Mark Calcavecchia
Corey Pavin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Corey, Calc, a valiant effort. Corey, 16, 17, two great shots there, you had a chance, but we see the players shaking their heads on these greens. 
 COREY PAVIN: Yeah, they are tough. A lot of greens over here have the little rolls and they are tough to read. I hit a pretty good putt on 16 and can't really say the same for 17. But that's golf and just played hard. It was good playing with Calc. And he drove the ball good today, holey cow. We had a good day out there. It was fun.

 Q. Once again you got off to the quick start through the first eight holes, and then No. 9, wow, but I loved the comeback you made, that was awesome. 
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA: Switched drivers today, to the one I used last week, drove it a lot better. That's encouraging. But the four-whack on the ninth hole, those usually hurt you. 
 And the greens are tough here, but that was all my fault. I pulled both those little short putts, and that happens every now and then. But overall, we really good. It's just hard to make a lot of putts with these greens?

 Q. I thought this was the Walton Heath that everyone expected, more bouncy today. 
 COREY PAVIN: It was nice. The fairways were firm all week. The greens got a little bit firmer and probably the ball is not stopping quite as well today, at least they weren't to me it. It would be fun to play when it was completely dry. It would be a very difficult course to score on. 

 Q. Just came up shy at the end, you were close but the putting wasn't quite hot enough towards the end. 
 COREY PAVIN: Yeah, I played well. My driver wasn't as comfortable as I would have liked to have been but I tried it to keep it between the hedger and I did a good job of that today. But I could have made a couple putts, I made a good putt on 9 and 10 which kind of got me going, but there was a couple coming in that could have gone in, but you know, that's the way golf is, and one thing I can say is I tried my hardest, and just came up a couple shots short. 

 Q. Nice to be competing like that, is that good for the system? 
 COREY PAVIN: It is. It makes you think a little bit out there, and that's what I love about competing and trying to win tournaments is seeing how I'm going to react and what I'm going to do. I was pleased with the way I played today. It was probably the best I've played maybe in contention since last year at this time. I was happy with that. I just played well within my abilities and I didn't try to do anything I shouldn't do, and unfortunately just as I said came up a couple shots short.

 Q. Second last year, third this year, you're going to be coming back next year desperate to win? 
 COREY PAVIN: I'll be coming back next year; I'm going the wrong direction, though, I should be going third to second, but maybe I can sneak a win in next year. It was a great week. The golf course is fantastic. I really enjoyed it a lot, and again, all of the people coming out and watching was very nice, as well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT