THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 23, 2011
Mark Calcavecchia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. The 7 at 14, was the second a calculated risk?   
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA: Yeah, it was. I thought I could take it off-side but the heather grabbed my hosel and the hosel grabbed in the bush and yeah, a couple shots, bad decision there, kind of hurt.   
 Today was kind of a -- exactly what's been happening to me all year. I drive it great for a while and then I just lose it. That's kind of what I was worried about, and that happens to me. I go through a stretch where I hit it crooked and I can't find a fairway to safe my life. I have to figure it out by tomorrow.  
  
  Q. One of the guys said earlier in the week, the major problem they have as a senior golfer is concentration, losing concentration; they just lose their concentration occasionally. Is that a problem for you?  
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA: Well, I think I lose my faith in myself faster than I lose my concentration. Once I hit a couple crooked drives -- I could hit 20 perfect drives in a row and unless I hit one dead left and one dead right, I'm screwed. I can't regroup. I can't find it.   
 What works for me -- the first six drives I hit today were perfect. What worked for me in the first six holes all of a sudden is not working and obviously that's a mental problem. I'm trying to do the same things. It's just not working. Left, left, right, right; if I was all hitting them in the same direction, I could work with it. But it's like Tiger always said, once you start missing it both ways, it's trouble.   
  
  Q. How much did the birdie at the last keep your spirits up?  
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA: Quite a bit. Trying to have more fun now, kind of one of my things now, after last Friday at The Open, I really got upset and down on myself so I kind of have more fun with my collapses now and not take it so serious. Hung in there. Kind of had a vision I might birdie the last two, so to birdie the last is nice, and you know, obviously still got toy chance tomorrow if I can keep it out of the bad stuff.   
  
  Q. You don't seem to do dull, do you.   
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA: I wish I could do better golf. I wish I could be really boring and just kind of hit fairways and make a bunch of pars at times. I always keep it interesting and I'm sure tomorrow, hopefully I'll make it interesting for somebody, including myself.   
 But you know, I just -- my driver gets a little out of kilter every now and then, and you know, once I start hitting it crooked, I can't stop it. Why, I don't know. But I hit six perfect drives in the first six holes, first seven holes and after that it was ugly, so I don't know.  
  
  Q. You were cruising along, three shots clear of the field and as you say, it's interesting to hear somebody who still, despite leading the tournament, which you are, have won or two doubts going through your mind. That seems strange?  
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA: Well, it's not strange if you see where I hit it out there. That 13th hole, the fairway, it's got to be 60 yards between the heather, and two days in a row, I can't hit a 3-wood in that gap. That's horrible. So there's a lot of doubt there, is what that is. It's a lack of confidence in myself, my swing. Prior to that, yesterday, I hit a couple drives. I duck-hooked one on 11 hit one left on 12, dead right on 13, very similar to today. Right on 8, right on 11, left on 12, left on 13, right on 14, left, right; like Army golf I guess is a good way to describe it.  
 On the last hole I tried to hit a high slice in the fairway and then actually hit a pretty good drive. So I don't know if I'm going to try to hit high slices all day tomorrow but I may go to my back up driver. I don't know what I'm going to do. I'll worry about it when I wake up.  
  
  Q. So you'll do a bit of practise in the among?  
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA: Yes.   
  
  Q. You are leading, joint leading going into the final round, many reasons to be positive?  
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA: Sure. You know, like I said, I try to have a little bit -- take it a little less seriously with my collapse out there, but I finished three, three, birdie on 18 was nice and got back in with a tie for the lead. There's a whole bunch of guys at 6 and it's pretty tight.   
 So I'm sure somebody is going to shoot a good score. You have to go out and have a good one tomorrow and if I can keep on hitting my irons pretty good, if I can keep it out of the bad stuff, maybe I'll have a chance.   
   
    
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT