SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 27, 2011
Mark Calcavecchia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Talk about 15. It's playing pretty tough today for some reason. You birdied it. What make it's play so tough?
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA: Well in my case I pulled my drive in the left rough, but it was fine. I actually had a great angle. And with the pin over there with the water obviously you don't want to get too cute with it. 
 I was just trying to hit it up the middle of the green and it slopes a little bit from left-to-right and sure enough it broke a little right. And I hit a good shot, hit the right distance about 15 feet left of the hole and then made the putt. 
 So but, you know, I think that the problem is the water kind of freaks you out a little bit, because it's parallel. It's always easier hitting over water than it is parallel of water. And it doesn't take much to hit it in the soup. So a lot of times you see guys pulling it. So I think that actually hitting in the left rough was an advantage for me because I had such a good angle to shoot into the green.

 Q. And the tee shot for that hole, if you don't hit a tee shot, you don't have a chance?
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA: Yeah, true. It's one of probably the toughest tee shots on the course or one of the top two or three toughest ones. And it does kind of set up more for a draw than a fade. And if I cut the ball a little bit. So it's a good hole. It's got a lot of character and all that. 

 Q. Minus three, how do you like your position right now?
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA: Yeah, I was 2-over when I got out here this morning so I knew I needed to play pretty good. I had 27 holes, so I needed to do something good. And obviously playing with Nick Price, he's playing well, so, yeah, I don't want to get too far behind him. So I feel pretty good. I'm four behind him. 
 So but, it's going to stay soft this weekend, even though the sun's supposed to come out. So I need to shoot at least probably 10-under on the weekend I think would be a good number.

 Q. How difficult is this course to walk 27 holes?
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA: I'm tired. My feet are killing me. There's some tough walks. And you have to dodge the mud and take the long way around. So we probably walked what was equivalent to about 33 or 34 holes really. 
 And I'm wandering around all over the place trying to find sprinkler heads for my yardages too. So I got do extra walking there. So I'm ready to sit down and grab a beer. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT