U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 29, 2010
Mark Calcavecchia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Not too many sub-par rounds?
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA: No. 

 Q. Pretty good struggle? 
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA: Yeah, this course, there's just not that many birdie holes out there even if you do hit the fairway and even if you have a short iron. 
 I thought the pins today and we were talking about -- me and Corey were saying earlier, they must have thought the top 100 in the world were here not 156 old guys. Seriously I think it was the hardest set of pin placements I've seen in years. 
 Yeah, it's tough, if you get your tee ball out of position you're pretty much screwed. 

 Q. Were there any pin placements in particular? 
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA: 9, 8, 5, 3, 1, you know, 17, 16, 15, 11, 12, 13 -- I'm telling ya there were at least 13 tough ones, it was unreal. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA: I hit every fairway until I got around and then I hit a perfect drive on 2 and it nicked the tree, otherwise I would have a 6-iron to that green. And after that I didn't hit a good tee shot. I hit the 4th fairway and 3-putted but other than that I missed every fairway. And was lucky to make it on 7, made a hell of a par there. Hit it in the bunker on 8 on the lip. You got to get it in the fairway otherwise you can forget it. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA: I would anticipate the pins being easier tomorrow, seriously, it's impossible for them to get any tougher. 
 You know, it's okay, it's the same for everybody, but it was tough. It was not easy out there, considering it was a perfect day with a four-mile an hour wind, tough course. The greens are getting thirsty, to boot, a couple of them are pretty darn hard. 

 Q. You don't seem happy, it was a good round of golf. 
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA: I'm happy, really happy, tired, back hurts, blister on my toe, ready to get the hell out of here, waking up every day at 3:00. 

 Q. Watson said 1:45 for him --
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA: 3:15, 3:30. 

 Q. Do you think it played a role, your fatigue? 
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA: I got tired, it did, I tried to take back those electrolytes. And the motto is "finish as strong as you started ," but I ran out of gas with six holes to go, even when I played nine holes yesterday. And after the practice holes yesterday I was thinking about my nap, I was tired, which is unusual with me, usually I bounce back and flying all over the world, but I've been tired. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA: Yeah, and other than one week at the British I haven't been traveling at all, so two weeks over there and then here it was king of --

 Q. A later start tomorrow? 
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA: No, nice and early, 7:45, so grab something quick to eat and quick shower and I'll be hitting the sack. I'll be wide awake, I know that, early, I probably don't even have to set my alarm, you can call me at 3:30 if you want, I'll be up. Thanks, guys. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT