THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 25, 2012
Mark Calcavecchia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on being here at Turnberry?  
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:   It's a great place, beautiful course, great course, and the two Opens I played here in '94 and 2009, I played pretty well.   So been looking forward to this for quite a while.  
   
 Q.   In 2009, you were right up there for a time, weren't you?  
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:   Yeah, I was.   I think I was in the second to last group on Saturday with Ross Fisher, I remember that.   Played okay Saturday, and then I think I made a double on Sunday and ended up finishing 20th or somewhere in there.   
It was an amazing tournament right here with what happened with Tom Watson and Stewart Cink ended up winning.   But it was a great tournament.   
   
 Q.   And we don't have to look back to 2009 for last time you played well at The Open.   
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:   Well, that's true.   Last week was kind of a nice surprise.   I thought I was playing pretty well coming in.   I do like Lytham.   I like the golf course.   
But, you know, a Top‑10 was kind of higher than I was expecting for sure.   I just basically wanted to make the cut and play some good golf and have a good finish.   So a tie for 9th was great result for me.  
   
 Q.   So what was it down to?   You obviously played well.   
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:   I putted pretty good all week.   I didn't make many putts on Sunday, but you know, I only hit it in one fairway bunker.   I did hit it in seven or eight bunkers around the greens, and you know, two or three times I had pretty easy shots but the other times I was upside the back of a lip or something and couldn't get it up‑and‑down.   But I think only one fairway bunker was key to making not too many bogeys.  
   
 Q.   Presumably that's down to something up here, as well as just technique.   
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:   Well, over there, as well as here, there's not as many bunkers here, but you have to take the club off the tee that‑‑ you want to hit a driver; but if it brings in a bunch of those bunkers into play, then you've got to lay back with a 3‑wood or even a 2‑iron or something and accept a long shot into the green.   That's where the thinking part comes in.  
   
 Q.   What are your expectations now at Turnberry?   
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:   Well, when I play on the Champions Tour, my goal is to win.   I wouldn't say I entered last week at The Open with a goal of winning.   That would have been completely farfetched.   But when I enter a Champions Tour event, I feel like everybody is my age and everybody is kind of hurt, you know.   
And then sadly, I just talked to Russ Cochran, it's too bad he can't play.   Olin Browne hurt his finger the other day.   We have all got a bunch of aches and pains, so it's a much more level playing field so I feel like I've got a pretty good chance when I come to the over‑50 circuit.  
   
 Q.   I don't want to feel like I'm asking a patient in a nursing home, but what are the aches and pains this week?  
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:   My back just constantly aches.   It doesn't go into spasm hardly ever.   It just aches a lot.   My hands have got some arthritis in my right hand and I had four shots of cortisone in it and about ready for another one.   
So little things like that that are kind of annoying.   But again, almost everybody has got some sort of backache or shoulder ache or something going on with them out here, and it's interesting the guys play as well as they do considering the way most of us feel.  
   
 Q.   Yet after the rain and chilly weather after last week at Lytham, the sunshine must make you feel good.   
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:   It's beautiful.   Weather is going to be pretty good from all week from what I understand, I know it's going to be beautiful tomorrow, maybe a little rain on the weekend.   This is a gorgeous place when the sun is out.   There's a little bit of breeze blowing today, so I think today the course will be playing pretty tough, and you know, I anticipate the rest of the week there will be some wind and this is a tough golf course.  
   
 Q.   You've seen a bit of it already; how is it playing?   
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:   I played the Pro‑Am yesterday, under perfect conditions.   Yesterday, this morning, would have been good.   There wasn't much wind and it was just a perfect day to play.   I think today would be a little tougher if we were playing.   
But you know, to keep it around par here, you've got to keep it out of the bunkers and the course is playing fairly long; so because it is kind of softer than usual.   I wouldn't say it's soft by our standards, but you know, with the wet summer, it's probably playing longer than it ever has.   We only have a couple of tees moved up for us, I think 3 and 16 are moved up from The Open, that's about it.   So we are playing most of the course.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT