WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 27, 2010
Mark Calcavecchia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Good playing today. Just talk about your round a little bit. Good to see you back up here again at this tournament as usual.   
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA: Yeah, today was basically saved on the last two holes. I made two 30-footers after making nothing the first 16 holes. I hit it better today than the first two days, but I really didn't putt good the first two days and then made absolutely zero all day long and finished off with two 30-footers, so nice way to end the day.   
  
  Q. You always play well here. What do you --  
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA: I don't know. I get around here okay every now and then. I just like playing here. It's nice to stay at home. I've got a lot of family and friends and people I only see once a year I see this week. That's always good to do. Like I said, I've always played well when I get to stay at home.  
  
  Q. What is it with you and the 50 year olds? You and Lehman and Couples are up all there this week.   
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA: I don't know. Experience -- I won't say we've played here a lot. There's a lot of young kids up there that are playing great, too. I guess bottom line is we know how to do it. It's in there, it's just a question of whether we can find it. It's not like a mystery whether we're going to play good or not -- well, it is, but you know what I mean. It's in there, it's just a question of pulling it out every once in a while. When you've had a good career as me and Fred and Tom have had, eventually you're going to play good.   
  
  Q. You have a chance to become the third player in TOUR history to win in four different decades if you can win this week, and you'd become the first four-time winner of the Phoenix Open. Would that be a big deal?   
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA: That would be a long way to go for that yet, although starting fresh doesn't break my heart. We'll see, we'll see how far back I am. Obviously a lot of people have won tournaments from four and five back, and if that's what I am, then technically --  
  
  Q. You're only three back right now.   
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA: Well, there's some birdie holes out there. Whether somebody gets to 14 or 15 remains to be seen. Whatever it is --  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA: Well, they both sound nice, but it won't affect the way I play tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Last time you won here there was some pretty nasty weather on the final day, wasn't there?  
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA: Well, pretty much all week it was nasty weather that week. Actually the last day wasn't bad, it was just kind of cool. Yeah, tomorrow is going to be quite a bit cooler. I think the rain is supposed to get out of here by tomorrow morning. So if it's cold and windy, that's okay.  
  
  Q. Matt Every is up there, as well. There's a chance the two of you could play together, and after last week -- do you want to comment on that? He talked about it earlier in the week.   
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA: Yeah, I felt bad. In the end it's not really my fault because every single day out here somebody screws up some scorecards, and more than once. Out of 100 whatever players, I'd like to see how many players get the wrong scores down. I bet it happens at least ten times. It's your responsibility to make sure your score is right. He just doubled the 9th hole, which is a 2-iron wedge hole for him, so he was pissed and he didn't look at it. On the other hand, I felt bad, I put down the wrong score.   
 He's a nice kid. When he was in college at Florida, I understand he's been a fan of mine growing up, he was always a Calcavecchia fan, so that was nice. You know, neither one of us played worth a crap Saturday, but he's a nice kid and really super-talented. I'm not surprised to see him playing well. He's going to have a good career out here.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT