AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 13, 2009
Mark Calcavecchia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Talk about your round today, you're four back of the lead, what's your thoughts overall?
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA: I played well. I missed a couple 3-footers, but everybody is going to do that out here. It's just part of this tournament. 
 You know, we got so lucky with the weather I think. I was hoping for nine holes before the rain got here, and I was kind of thinking we were going to spend the whole back nine freezing and hiding under our umbrellas. Considering that didn't happen, it was lucky. 
 Only other thing that really went wrong was I laid up out-of-bounds on 14. Just literally shanked, trying to punch a 5-wood down there, and just got way ahead of it and hit it out-of-bounds about eight yards.
 Other than that, playing well.

 Q. Was that your only bogey? 
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA: I 3-putted 9 and 10, and I bogeyed that one. 
 I made a good six actually. I got up-and-down from 60 yards and made a nice 10-footer for bogey. 

 Q. Thoughts tomorrow? Sunday it sounds like it's going to be pretty bad. Your thoughts tomorrow, being so close to the lead? 
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA: You've just got to kind of take it one day at a time, one hole at a time. The weather can change so fast out here, and the greens are tough, and it takes six hours to play. You know, I'm not even going to worry about Sunday yet. 
 If the weather hangs in there okay, that's the main thing.

 Q. Roughly how many times have you played here at the AT&T? 
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA: I don't know. I know I've only played once in the last eight years. I played five years ago and I think 2001 was the last time before that.

 Q. Glad to be back?
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA: You know, it's certainly a good tournament. It's a tough tournament. I'm not going to lie to you. Every pro will tell you, six-hour rounds, it's tough. The greens are tough and the weather is tough. It's a tough tournament to play. But glad I'm playing well, let's put it that way. 
 My theory was, the weather was dead-perfect at the Hope and Phoenix, and I missed the cut in both of them. So I thought I would come up here and freeze my butt off, cold, wind and rain, and see how I did. So it seems to be working out. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT