WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 20, 2008
Mark Calcavecchia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  A couple comments about the round.   
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA:  Well, I don't know if it played like the first three days because I wasn't here.  I know it was windier than hell in Palm Beach Gardens where I was playing up there.  But it's still pretty windy.   
 I hit 3-wood into two par-3s today, and there's some tough holes into the wind.  But it actually switched a little bit since when we teed off, more out of the -- I don't know, west, I guess, than it was when we started.   
 There's some short par-4s that are birdiable, obviously.  16 and 17, you can drive it almost on 16 and a little chip into 17.  So there's plenty of birdie holes out there.  But 4-under, I'm happy with that start.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)   
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA:  Well, it's straight downwind.  It'll never play any easier.  I was just trying to hit a high fade.  I didn't drive it good today.  I did duck hook a few, including the one on 14 that I hit 60 yards left into a creek that I didn't know was over there, to tell you the truth.   
 Then 18 I was going for the high bomb fade and I hung back and flipped it a little bit.   
 My lie was bad, but I could have easily gotten over the water but that giant tree was in my way.  I just chipped it out -- actually didn't want to chip it that close to the green.  I caught a flier on my chip-out, which is hard to do.  It rolled 100 yards and I was trying to hit it about 60.  But I hit a nice shot in there from 63 yards and made about a nice six-, seven-footer, so that was a nice way to end.   
  
  Q.  You didn't practice here, either, did you?   
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA:  No, my 27th year.  I think I've got a grip on the course.  It hasn't changed in 27 years, so I wasn't expecting anything shocking.   
  
  Q.  Your history on this course, is it a good history, or how do you feel about it?   
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA:  Yeah, I've always enjoyed playing here.  I've had a lot of fun here.  I've had a few good chances to win.  I bogeyed 18, hit a bad drive -- actually I bogeyed 17 and 18 the year Norman won in the playoff, I think, '91, when we had that four-way playoff.  So I probably should have won that one.   
 But I've had good tournaments and I've missed the cut by a mile, too.  I've made anywhere from 3 to 9 on 18.  So a lot of good memories, but a few bad ones, as well.   
  
  Q.  Foot okay?   
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA:  No, it hurts.  I think I may have a stress fracture, I'm not sure.  It's the same thing my wife had, and it's underneath the ball of my second toe.  And just when I bend it and touch under there, it hurts.  It started bothering me at the Honda, and it's pretty painful.  But I just get around on it.  Actually Jim Weathers is going to check me out in a little bit.  He mentioned that it had something to do with my heart.  You know Jim.  I said, "Well, I don't know if that's good news.  Am I going to have a heart attack?"   
  
  Q.  He's checking your heart?   
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA:  Yeah, he says it's got something to do with your heart.  And it kind of creeps up into my knee.  I wore this knee brace today.  But I think it has to do with walking goofy on my foot.  It hurts like hell.  Pulling back on it is okay.  When I pull down on it, that's what hurts.   
  
  Q.  Don't do that.   
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA:  Yeah, exactly.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)   
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA:  You know, I really haven't thought of it.  It would have been nice to have one or two for sure, but I've got a few tries left in me, so I would love to get one for sure.  You know, I've had good success at the Honda and it was nice winning the PODS last year and nearly won the TPC a couple times that year.  Jodie Mudd birdied 17.  We were tied going into that hole.   
 Anyway, I love playing in Florida, bottom line.  Florida and Arizona, those are my two favorite spots.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT