THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
September 16, 2007
Mark Calcavecchia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Are you pretty happy with how this week turned out?   
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA:  Yeah, definitely.  I had no expectations coming in here.  I was clearly the favorite to finish 30th this week, and tying for second is pretty good.  I'm glad I made that putt on the last hole.  It was a battle for second, really.  Tiger didn't get off to his normal start, but you know it's just a matter of time with him.   
 I played today like I've been playing.   
  
  Q.  Talk about his 65 today, kind of a ho-hum round, just sort of going about his business?   
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA:  Yeah, pretty easy 65.  He's driving the ball good.  He missed a couple of drives, but he just sets up his game by driving it well.  When he bombs it down there in the fairway, his distance control is so good and his short irons are so good, and he controls his spin, he's just -- and putting, he's the best ever, best ever, period.   
  
  Q.  You guys are pretty good friends.  Did you have a good time out there?   
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA:  I would have had a little more fun if I would have played better.  I just fought my swing.  Emotionally I was fine all day, I just fought as hard as I could, never felt good over any shot whatsoever.  So it was a long day.   
 As I said, you know, I could have won the battle for second, but tying for second was actually a good result for me.   
  
  Q.  You've had a pretty good year.  Assess your year grade-wise, A, B, C, D?   
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA:  Well, I've got to give myself an A.  I've had some bad stretches, but any time I win a tournament and have five or six other Top 10s and tie for second in the TOUR Championship, that's good for me, and I'm happy with that.   
  
  Q.  If Tim came to you and said, "I need one suggestion on trying to make this FedExCup better," what would it be?   
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA:  For me it would just be the restructure of the points so more guys had a chance to win this week, and maybe if you miss a tournament or two, get a little penalty enforcement.  I think you should play all four of these playoff events.  Tiger knew he was going to win the thing only playing three.  He obviously won it by a mile.  He could have probably played two and won it.  If he would have just played the last two weeks he probably still would have won it.  You've got to reward the guys that play all four tournaments and have more guys have a chance this week.   
  
  Q.  Taking Tiger out of the mix, who would you vote for for Player of the Year?   
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA:  Taking Tiger out of the mix?   
  
  Q.  Right.  You can vote for yourself if you want.   
 MARK CALCAVECCHIA:  No, I'm nowhere near Player of the Year.  Shoot, probably Phil.  Phil has played some brilliant golf.  Other than the little stretch in the summer where he was battling the wrist problems, I think Phil is definitely our second best player out here.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT