FBR OPEN
February 2, 2006
Mark Calcavecchia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
It's just one of those days.  I know you probably feel like you had a lot of missed opportunities.
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:  Yeah, I played pretty good for the most part, a couple bad shots, making two 6s on the par 5s, that's a killer, and then bogeying the last hole with a wedge.  So I left some out there.

The good news is I did make eight birdies, and eight birdies any day is good, so I've just got to eliminate the idiotic mistakes.
Q.  With the record that you have playing here and playing here a lot, how do you look at this round today as compared to the other years, where you started?
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:  Well, it's a good start.  It's not as good as I felt    I played a little bit better than that.  The greens are tough this year, and I made some nice hairy 6 and 7 footers that I didn't have to make.  It's just kind of a mediocre start.  Like I said, I threw three or four away.  Everybody is going to do that.  You're going to miss some short putts on the greens, and I've got to quit making 6s on the par 5s.
Q.  Lowery was here hours ago thinking his score wouldn't hold up.
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:  I thought somebody would shoot at least 7 or 8 for sure, maybe even 9 under.  Again, the scores were low in the Pro Am, but the pins are out in the middle of the greens.  The pin placements were a little bit tougher today than they are on Wednesdays, and that makes a difference.  Yeah, I would have thought somebody would have shot 8 under at least.
Q.  Being at 4 under, though, you're right there.  I mean, it's not like anybody is running away from you.
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:  Exactly.  I've got to go out and get off to a good start tomorrow and just keep doing what I'm doing.  Like I said, I just goofed up a couple times today where I shouldn't have and it cost me a few strokes, but you've just got to keep going in the red here.  There's no room to shoot even par.  That's why it would have been nice to shoot 7 or 8 under today, but maybe tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT