WGC AMERICAN EXPRESS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 7, 2005
Mark Calcavecchia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MARK CALCAVECCHIA:  Well, I didn't hit it good yesterday, but I made every putt I looked at.  I got away with a good round, but I was incredibly tired, I guess from struggling so hard, and pretty much everything hurt from the head down.  So I just went home and jumped in the bathtub for half an hour.

You know, I kind of went over some checkpoints with my swing.  I was just hitting big slices to the right with everything, and what caused that.  So sure enough, I figured a few things out and came out today and started striping it right off the bat the first couple of holes, so it was good.
Q.  Do you recommend bathtub mental lessons?
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:  I do.  It's a lot less tiring than going to the range for an hour.  All out of shape guys have to conserve our energy.
Q.  You're in good shape through 36.
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:  Yeah, I am.  It's a good spot.  Anything under par is good on this course.  You know, it's very similar to Shaughnessy where we had the Canadian Open, not quite as tough as that, I don't think.  But breaking par around here, there's nothing wrong with that.  I'd love a couple more 67s on the weekend.
Q.  Were the conditions changing a lot with the wind and the fog in and out?
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:  There wasn't much wind.  The fog was kind of blowing in and blowing out on the front nine.  But it wasn't anything we couldn't handle.  There wasn't ever a point where we couldn't see where we were going.  It was kind of cool out there actually.  But it wasn't tough.  Hopefully the wind will come up a little bit here, but it's still really nice out there.
Q.  I know you've talked over time about the various maladies you have.  Have you had to sort of adjust the way you prepare for tournaments from day to day because of injuries?
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:  Yes and no.  I've never been a guy like Phil Mickelson, what he does now to prepare for majors and stuff like that.  I couldn't do that if you paid me a lot of money.  I just can't do it.  That's what Phil needs to do, and I admire that kind of work ethic.

For me, you know, I'm not a big practice round player, either.  I played 27 holes here, which is a lot.  Like the TPC in Jacksonville, I haven't played a practice hole there in four years.  I know the course, it never changes.  I don't need to play practice holes generally.  When we come to a new course I do.  But at any rate, when I get to a course, usually the Pro Am is good.  I use that as my practice round and I'm ready to go.
Q.  And the ball striking was better today?
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:  I hit it a lot better today.  I did hit some bad ones, but for the most part, I hit some really good irons and hit more fairways today.
Q.  You've had a little trouble on the 9th tee, a little mishap.  What were you thinking?
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:  I teed my ball up, and I always take just a little bit of a half practice swing before I get ready to hit.  That's kind of my pre shot routine, and I was kind of looking down the fairway and I just took a swing, and tinge, I tinged my ball with the toe of my club and it rolled about five feet to the right.  It kind of surprised me.  I started laughing at that, and Thomas Bjorn thought that was kind of funny.  I did that one other time at the Hope and almost hit it about 60 yards, almost killed about six old people up on the right at Bermuda Dunes.  I'm glad I don't do that very often.  It kind of scared me.
Q.  You knew to go after it and put it back on the tee?
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:  Yeah, it was just a little practice swing, and I wasn't in any way trying to hit it.  And I hadn't addressed the ball or anything.  I've done that before so I know you can pick it up and re tee it.
Q.  Talk about the 18th hole.  What's your perception of it?  And is it one where you do dare to go for it or do you just want to play it and get 4 and go home?
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:  4 is a good score on the hole.  You know, for me, being a fader of the ball, I just try to hit a really high fade and try to land it soft on the fairway.  I don't try to get it way down there.  I can't hit it that far anyway.  I don't want to say anything bad about the hole, but it's the worst one on the course (laughing).  I don't know if I let the hole off easy, but it's just doesn't really fit the rest of the course, in my opinion.  Neither does the green.  But it's certainly an interesting hole, and it could provide for an exciting finish on Sunday, for sure.  Two more pars there would be fine with me.

FastScripts by ASAP Sports....



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT