FUNAI GOLF CLASSIC AT WALT DISNEY WORLD RESORT
October 23, 2004
Mark Calcavecchia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
Is it a birdie-fest out there?
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:  It is.  You know, it's there, but you just have to play well.  There's enough breeze, you know, where you still have to execute and read your putts right and hit good putts, but it's always been that way here.  I tend to think the Magnolia is the toughest golf course.

I haven't played the tournament in a long time, the reason being is I always shot a lot of 70s and 71s.  I guarantee this is my low career round here.  I played mini-Tours here for five years.  It's still a good golf course, you just have to execute to shoot a good score.
Q.  When you look at the scoreboard and you see it change, guys are moving up and down.  You make a par, three guys are going to pass you.  Does that make it play different tomorrow?  Do you have to shoot at flags now?
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:  Yeah, you do.  You know, Vijay is probably going to shoot zero tomorrow, too, so if you want to win the tournament, it's strictly birdie thinking, aggressive thinking.  When you step up on every hole, you're not really looking to make a par, even if it's a pretty tough hole; you're looking to make a birdie.

I have yet to birdie a par 5 in two days on this course, though, so, you know, that's kind of hurt me.  I've had a couple of 4-irons into 10 and haven't made a birdie yet, and a couple of nice 3-woods into 4 and haven't made birdie there.  I feel like I've left a couple out there on the par 5s, but other than that, I'm playing well.  If you don't birdie those holes, you can't get upset, you've just got to go try to birdie the next one.
Q.  It'll be fun for people to watch it.
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:  Yeah, and the greens are quick.  If you're not paying attention -- I had about a two-foot birdie putt on the 16th hole that I barely hit, hit like a two footer, I knew it was fast, rolled seven feet by.  They'll probably be quicker tomorrow.  The thing that makes them easy is that they're soft and fast, which is a hard combo to find.

16, I was above the hole, and I hit like a two-footer and it was fast and it rolled seven feet by.  17 if you're in the middle of the green putting down toward the hole you can putt it right off the green.  Same with No. 11.  There's still some holes where you've got to pay attention, but you're thinking about making birdies.
Q.  (Inaudible).
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:  I didn't play poorly in Vegas.  I got stuck out there in the wind on Saturday afternoon on the wrong course, and I came here trying to make the Top 125 obviously, but I thought if I go home I'm going to sit there for eight days and not touch a club and show up in Tampa Tuesday night.  I thought, heck, I'm playing good, why don't I try to keep it going.  I'm hitting a lot of good shots.
Q.  (Inaudible).
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:  I think '85, I could be wrong, 18 or 19 years ago, and I missed my Sunday tee time.  We're staying at the Days Inn, my normal hang.  Had the 8:04 tee time and I woke up at 8:07.  That was the last time I was here.
Q.  How do you look at tomorrow from where you are?
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:  You know, I hit it down the first fairway and hit it close and go from there, a good start.  I haven't birdied a par 5 in two days on this course, so I'd like to birdie one of the first three, hopefully birdie 4 and just keep it going from there.
Q.  (Inaudible).
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:  Yeah, it's been since -- well, '86 I didn't even start the year with a Tour card, so yeah, '85.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT