U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 13, 2012
Mark Calcavecchia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   Ladies and gentlemen, Mark Calcavecchia, 70, 2 under par for the Championship.   
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:   All right.   What do you want to know?  
   
 Q.   Well, just how much tougher is it afternoon today than the morning yesterday and just drying out and making it tougher, I guess?  
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:   The wind came up a little bit.   It's definitely harder to hit the fairways today than it was yesterday.  
At 16 and 18, you can hit it straight down the middle and have no chance to hit the fairway unless you hit it way back there.   So there are some tough holes.   The greens didn't really get that hard or that fast.   They still have some moisture to them.   
But the greens, I think, are tough to read.   It's not easy to make birdies out there.  
   
 Q.   Looks like the nature of the course is you can get a few and you give a few back.   It's a very tight bunched leaderboard.   Everybody is kind of in the same kind of situation.   
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:   That's kind of the way it is, I think.   You go through a stretch like, to me, today, I could have easily bogeyed 11 and 12 and made nice eight‑footers for pars after playing the holes horrible.   Had a 5 iron to 15 and didn't make birdie and missed a five‑footer at 16.   So I should have made a couple bogeys, but I should have birdied those two holes.   
It's kind of a give or take, and that's what you're going to get on this type of golf course.   I've only made five birdies and three bogeys in two days.   So I'm having a hard time making birdies.  
   
 Q.   That's part of the greens too?   I mean, these are really, really interesting greens.   
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:   They're interesting.   It's not always easy to get your second shot close.   Some of the shorter holes can have tricky pins, like 10 and whatnot.   If you get above the hole, it's tough to make a putt.   I think it's not a very easy course to make birdies on, especially if you don't birdie 1 and 15, the two par 5s.   If you don't birdie those two holes, you're not going to make too many birdies on this course.   At least I'm not.  
   
 Q.   Thank you, Mark.   Appreciate it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT