WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 21, 2002
Mark Calcavecchia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Talk about your match. 
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:   Well, it was a struggle.  Neither one of us played great.  I think the main difference was I didn't make any bogeys.  I made 16 pars and one birdie.  Normally that's not going to be enough to get it done out here, but it was pretty windy and it was a different wind than we are used to seeing here.  Chris played a few loose holes and I was able to get back in the match that way.

Q.  Was there any turning point or anything in particular; you were up by two and then he started inching his way back? 
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:   Yeah, the turning point was definitely No. 12.  I hit a bad iron on the front of the green, the par  5; and Chris hit it in there four feet and I was 60 feet from the hole.  You know, somebody was going to make it, but I didn't want to get crazy and run it 3 feet by and make a bogey.  I lagged it up there a foot from the hole, and turns out he missed.  And I was only 2-up at that one point; so I thought that might put me back to 1-up and it would get interesting after that  -- it was interesting, anyway.  But when he missed that little one there, that was a big momentum swing.
And then he played a bad 13th hole and made bogey there and I was 3-up and just hung on.

Q.  You're going to play Jose Maria next; is that correct? 
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:   Correct.

Q.  Can you make a couple of comments on that?
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:   Jose is playing a lot better, obviously.  He's been working with Butch Harmon.  I know he's driving a lot better.  I know that's been his bugaboo the last couple two, three, four, five years is his driver.  It looks like he's driving it better, and he's a phenomenal short game player.  He always has been. 
So it's going to be a good match.  I think I'm hitting okay.  I've just got to make a few more putts. 
I did edge him 4&3 a couple of years ago; so maybe he will remember that. 





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT