THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY DYNEGY
November 2, 2001
Mark Calcavecchia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Talk about your round.  You have to be pretty pleased with it.  (Inaudible) 
 
MARK CALCAVECCHIA:  Yeah, I really am.  I have been kind of struggling with my game and not in it very good and I managed to managed to get by okay the first day and then I caught up to him in the last four holes.  I was 3 under the first day and I ended up ended up doubling 18 and bogeying 15.  So I only shot even, so that was disappointing, and then I bogeyed 1, I hit an iron about 30 yards off the green, so I wasn't real confident, but then I made a few putts.  And I am a pretty emotional player, pretty streaky, and I made a couple bombs and that just seemed to get me going and I started hitting it better on top of it, so I am really as surprised as anyone that I shot 7 under today. 
 
Q.  How about that shot on 9 under the tree?
 
MARK CALCAVECCHIA: That's the shot I have been having a hard time with, the (inaudible) right, we call it, and I hit it solid, I just hit it straight right.  In fact, I hit that tree yesterday, same sorry shot.  And then yesterday went 40 yards backwards into the tree and today it ended up 4 feet from the hole.  So yeah, I just saw the replay of that in the booth there.  That could be the hop of the year. 
 
Q.  Have you ever had one go like that before?
 
MARK CALCAVECCHIA: No, never, never, never off a tree and then three or four feet away for eagle on a par 5.  That doesn't happen.  So that was fun.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible)
 
MARK CALCAVECCHIA: Oh, yeah, I hit a bad shot.  I was kind of hoping it would miss the tree and just end up in the bunker.  Honestly, you know, it was a pretty easy bunker shot and then I hit the tree.  I had given up on it.  I kind of looked down and all of a sudden I heard the crowd making some noise and I look up and it's rolling over there toward the hole.  Oh, my God, I am about eight feet  -- I thought I was about eight feet, and I got up there and it was about 3 and a half, four feet, so that was awesome. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible)
 
MARK CALCAVECCHIA: It seems like you do get a lot more to go the other way, that's for sure. 
 
Q.  Like yesterday?
 
MARK CALCAVECCHIA: Yeah, like yesterday. 
 
Q.  Are you pretty confident with your putter (Inaudible)?
 
MARK CALCAVECCHIA: I do.  I am putting good.  First day I putted good and didn't make anything and then I switched putters today, almost the same kind of putter, and I got a little tip from Jackie Burke, he just told me to let the ball go in the hole, and I have been grinding it so hard.  Nothing mechanical.  I told him I thought I was putting  good, I just couldn't get one to go in, and he goes "Well, you got to let it go in," you know.  And I just mentally wasn't letting them go in, I was just trying so hard, trying to force them in.  And I told him, I said, "Well, how do you do that?  I mean, who is going to tell the hole to let it go in, you know?"  But anyway, I started making some putts, and that's the whole thing out here, you got to make putts.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible)
 
MARK CALCAVECCHIA: Yeah, I heard on the news the other day about a month ago that Davis Love and I have played in, I think, 11 of the 14, so I only missed three, so that's good.  Probably tells you a few things, I have been pretty consistent and my longevity has been good and I haven't finished out of the top 50 since 1986, so I have been a pretty steady top player, so it's a good place to end the year, for sure.  
 
Q.  Mark, a lot of low, low birdie shots in your career.  Besides making putts, what's -- (Inaudible)?
 
MARK CALCAVECCHIA: Well, once I get on a roll, you know, I can feel it, and it's just my aggressiveness really comes out even more.  I don't see anything but the pin, it doesn't matter where it sits.  And then I make a few putts, I start to see the line, you know, I  -- just like zero negative things that creep into my head.  And, you know, when you are struggling or you are not on a roll, you know, shooting around par, there is no flow, there is nothing that goes right, it seems like.  And when things start going right for me, I am aware of it and I can sense it and I let it continue to happen, like in Phoenix.  I knew I had it and I knew things were going to go right, and the best thing about it was I let it happen, which is the hard thing to do.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible)
 
MARK CALCAVECCHIA: When I am playing good, it's almost impossible.  When I am playing bad, sometimes I am happy as hell just to hit it on the green someplace.  But, you know, I do.  I won't call it conservative, but I know where to miss it, you know.  It's like I will still aim for the pin, but if I am going to make a miss, I am either going to hit a good shot or I am going to going hit it towards the fat part of the green, whether I intentionally pull it or push it a little, instead of doing the opposite, aiming in the middle of the green and just trying to hit it there.  I can't do that.  Whenever I am away from the pin I almost always hit a bad shot.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible)
 
MARK CALCAVECCHIA: Yeah, it was in Oak Hill, San  Antonio.  Yeah.  I think I did all right, if I recall.  I think I finished like fourth or  -- but Watson won.  14 years ago.  I am as sharp as a tack.  
 
Q.  I have a question for you.
 
MARK CALCAVECCHIA: I can't remember who I played with yesterday, but I can remember that.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT