DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
December 11, 2020
Danny Willett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. A five-stroke improvement day one to day two.  What was the difference for you?
DANNY WILLETT:   We holed a couple more putts.  I think the golf course was a little more gettable today, not as much wind, a couple of flags not quite as tucked as yesterday.  I think a lot of guys would agree yesterday was pretty tricky with the crosswinds as strong as it was and really trying to get into some of them really small little knuckles that they've got at the back of the greens.  Today is a lot more gettable as you can see from the scoring, so it was nice to take them chances when you feel after the first few, you feel it is a bit more that way, so it is nice to capitalize.
Q. After the Masters win, it felt like your win here back in 2018 was sort of a return to glory in terms of a massive title to claim but also you back to your very best again.  I'm sure it's a wonderful memory for you.  How much do you allow yourself when you come back here to let your mind drift back to some of those memories?
DANNY WILLETT:   It's a long way, a long time ago.  There's a lot of golf that's happened since then.  You know, it is always nice.  It's not necessarily -- it's just vibes of a place, simple things, where you're at, your routines are similar.  You're trying to do the same things as you have done year on year and it kind of settles you and calms you down a little bit.  Adaptability to certain things hasn't always been my strong point, so I do always like it when I come back to a place that I'm very familiar with.
Yeah, luckily I've done well around some really cracking places, so it's nice to be familiar with it.
Q. I was having breakfast with Robert Rock the other day and he's a good guy to pick the brains of when it comes to the golf swing.  He said, I love watching what Danny is doing at the moment.  He's close to playing his very, very best.  What are you focusing on at the moment?
DANNY WILLETT:   The same stuff we've done.  A lot more pivot from the lower body, really trying to take the hands out.  I've always been quite aggressive with how my hands have worked in a golf swing so almost trying to take them completely out of it, watching videos of Nicklaus to get his lower half, actually watching videos of Stricker to try to get his wrist feels and just trying to match it all up so there's a lot less manipulation in there.  It takes a lot more stress off the back and yet gives you a pretty different ball flight, different feels, but we're getting there as to where it feels, yeah, the bad days are better, the good days you've still got a lot of good stuff in there, so yeah, it was nice to feel that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT