EURASIA CUP PRESENTED BY DRB-HICOM
January 16, 2016
Ian Poulter
Danny Willett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Leading pair, outstanding golf, 5-under par, on a not easy day.
IAN POULTER: No, it was good golf.  We had all intentions to play smart today, keep them under pressure.  It's probably their strongest pairing.  They played nicely yesterday.  I think they were probably 9-under par, and we done our job.  We hit good golf shots.  We played the right side of pins.  We made no mistakes, no bogeys, and we backed each other up at the right time.
Q. Were you surprised that they came out as slowly as they did?
DANNY WILLETT: No, it's a tough game.  You're not going to be far off around this golf course in this rough, you get a bad lie, and all of a sudden you're struggling to hole the greens, never mind get close to the flag.  I think me and Poults between us, only missed a couple of shots.  Like you say, when we were out there, when one of us hit a bad one, the other one backed him up and hit it close on a chip.  We didn't really make any mistakes and made a good few birdies for foursomes.
Q. It looked on paper as though you were going to be a good pairing.  Did you feel excited?
IAN POULTER: Yeah, I was excited.  I played with Danny a couple of days ago in practice.  I liked it.  We've both got similar games and are both aggressive and we both like to get out there and get after it, and that's what we did today.  We made it very difficult for them early on.
Q. How would you assess that victory?
DANNY WILLETT: Just very clinical.  Tore foursomes, Clarkey run through the stats with us and we were talking about how best to approach the game.  We played with each other Tuesday in foursomes and we played good, figured out the holes that best suited each other's eye.  Came out really strong and gave them nothing all day really.
Q. Do you have that you dovetailed supremely well?
IAN POULTER: Yeah, we done nicely.  We spoke after about five holes, and it's all about keeping the pressure on.  Don't give anybody anything -- any little window or any little door and that's exactly what we did today.  We drove it well and put it in play.  Only missed a couple of shots between us all day.  We holed a couple of nice putts and had them under pressure right from the start.
We didn't do anything wrong.  We played both of those holes very nicely and they made great birdies.  As long as you don't give holes away, you're not disappointed walking on the next tee and that's exactly what we did.  We played the next hole perfectly, hit the a shot in there to about 15 feet and rolled the putt.
Q. Are you revelling in this team environment?
DANNY WILLETT: It's good.  I haven't played in a team event for a long time.  It's obviously good having Poults and Lee in the team room chatting through it.  It's a young team and I think we are all hungry to do really well but it's good for me today to obviously be able to play with Poults and see some of that fire that most people see in The Ryder Cups come out.  Great partner to have that's always going to have your back if you make a couple of mistakes.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT