EURASIA CUP PRESENTED BY DRB-HICOM
January 12, 2016
Andy Sullivan
Bernd Wiesberger
Danny Willett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MICHAEL GIBBONS: Thoughts on facing the Asian Team this week?
DANNY WILLETT: I think it will be a pretty tall week.  Europe's got a pretty young team.  There's not the most amount of experience in professional match play but obviously not been out of the amateur game for too long.
So no, looking forward to having a bit of a different week, good fun.  Obviously foursomes, fourballs, and for the first time in a while, egging each other onto do really well and try to support each other and help everyone to get the W.
ANDY SULLIVAN: Playing in team golf again, I think we saw how good it is when you play for yourself full-time.  It's been four years for me since I played Walker Cup, and you know, it's absolutely phenomenal.  You just go out there and give it absolutely everything.
So for me, really looking forward to the week, and even today with the boys, we was having a good laugh out there.  Got a lot of camaraderie on the team.  Again, like Darren was saying, it's a young team and a bit of an experienced team, but again at the same time, it's a good team.
BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, I think you could see that everybody is really excited to be here, and not only start their individual seasons this week but also getting in with a format that we don't have every week.  We are individual players most of the weeks.  So it's really good to come out here and have the team environment, have fun in the team room and out on the course and push each other during the week, and you can see that already today in the first couple of holes we play.  It's been fun so far.
Q. Any comments about the opposition?
DANNY WILLETT: I think you look at the Asian Team is pretty good.  I think they have got a good mixture of young and old.  The last time, I think they halved.  A lot of the players are from The Asian Tour, maybe some we don't bump into, but you look down the resumé, they have a very good team.
In Asia with the heat, obviously benefits them guys a little bit more.  But yeah, I think you're going to see a pretty good contest.
BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, I think we're facing a really strong opponent.  But I think the main advantage we can bring to this week is we play with each other, week-in and week-out, even though we compete against each other, we know each other's team pretty well, so I think we have a good set up of teams and an idea to go into this match the Asian Team, which looks on paper really strong, are spread out through different tours, so maybe don't get to play with each other as much.
Yeah, we are not here expecting to win out right, but we are going to do our best to perform as good as we can, and we know it's going to take all of our game to come out of this week successful.  But everybody has prepared well so far, and, yeah, it's going to be a good match-up.
Q. Is the weather going to be a factor?
ANDY SULLIVAN: Yeah, definitely.  Obviously a lot of us have come from England and Europe, where obviously it's not been that hot.  The heat, it's going to be a big factor.  But obviously paying on The European Tour, we play worldwide year-round now, so I think a lot of the guys will be used to it and we know what to expect, but a bit of a shock coming from England.
Q. How do you feel about the course?
ANDY SULLIVAN: The course, first time I looked at it, I only played the front nine, I heard it was a little silly.  But to be honest when I was out there, it didn't seem like that at all.  It gives you a lot of options off the tee.  I think it's a good match-play course and you can see quite a few birdies.  Hopefully quite entertaining for the people watching back home, as well.
MICHAEL GIBBONS: How important is it for you guys to impress Captain Clarke this week?
DANNY WILLETT: Yes, I guess so.  It's one of them, yes, it's a match-play format and obviously as a team, any of us haven't really played match-play format within a team and obviously seen us play match play, we are all playing as individuals, but to get on a team -- it's not really just how you perform on the golf course.  It's more who brings different aspects into a team room and how you make people feel and how you bring your team together.
Like I say, it's a bit of a strange one, because it's a young team, you've obviously got the Westwood and Poults who have been in Ryder Cups and have played a lot of team golf, and I think Clarke did that for a reason, more so to kind of get them involved and in and around the team room to tell stories of what they have achieved and what they have done.
Yeah, just I think all in all, the difference between the experience and inexperience, I think it's going to work out really well, and obviously Captain Clarke will be on the sidelines enjoying watching.
ANDY SULLIVAN: I think it's just about doing the right things throughout year.  Obviously this week could be a massive part of that.  I think again, just getting stuck into the team stuff is a massive important -- not just on the golf course, like Darren said, what you bring off the course is massive, as well.
Again I think not just on this event, but I think based on the whole year, I think still a long way to go, and let's not get ahead of ourselves that we are all going on on that team.  There's a long way to go.
BERND WIESBERGER: Yeah, I think I agree with Andy there.  It's one part of maybe winning all your matches halfway down the back nine and then not playing well enough to make the team; so impress him this week, but a big part of the job is still to be done throughout the year towards The Ryder Cup.
But everybody is here trying to do their best for the team.  That's the most important part to start the week with, and everything else comes together hopefully during the year.  So I'm trying to impress the EurAsia Cup captain first and foremost and then maybe make a little impression towards The Ryder Cup.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT