DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 22, 2015
Danny Willett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Didn't happen for No. 1 but you must be pretty proud of how you gave it everything you had.  
DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, we started the day quick like we'd hoped.  Then yeah, just hit a bit of a stale patch again the last few holes.  Didn't finish great but in the end, at least I made an effort.   
 Q.  What is in the future for you?  
DANNY WILLETT: I'm going to have a nice week off and then Nedbank.  Going to defend down there.  Game is in good shape.  Just hope a few more things go my way to start off another season.   
 Q.  I can sense your a bit mad still at the finish, but once that calms down, what will be your target for the year and season ahead?  
DANNY WILLETT: I don't really set targets for years and stuff but just be doing the same as what we've been doing, working hard, doing all the right things, living right, doing everything we can to obviously keep climbing up the World Rankings and put ourselves up there in this position again next year.   
 Q.  Your thoughts on the way the week has panned out as a whole?  
DANNY WILLETT: I guess if someone had said, you're going to finish fourth and see where that gets you, you might have taken it.  As it stands, he's played some great golf all week.  He's going to be a tough man to beat.  Sully's obviously given him a good run, so it will be interesting to see how it all finishes.   
 Q.  Looked like it was going to be very interesting for a moment out there for you.  
DANNY WILLETT: There was a point after 10, we were getting close but every time I looked at the leaderboard, the lads were keep making birdies and three and four shots it front.  We hit a stale patch and sort of let them get further away from us, which is a shame.  One of them can't dwell too much on a bit of a bad finish to a pretty good 52 weeks.   
 Q.  Presumably that tempers the whole situation, because right from the Nedbank at the very start of the year, all the way through, you've been in the Top-10, you've played some stellar golf.  So much of the year has been so good, you have to be enormously proud, don't you?  
DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, there's a lot of good results.  If you look at statistics, stroke averages, Top-10s, top 5s, wins, it has been a very, very good year.   
So you hold your hands up and you gave it your best shot, and unfortunately we are going to come up shy by one but hopefully next year we're in a similar position and try and change the story.   
 Q.  You will gain by the experience, being in these kind of positions week-in and week-out.  
DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, knowing that the game is good enough to be there and do it and do it under pressure, yeah, I think moving forward, it's going to give us a lot of confidence going forward for future events.   
 Q.  A little rest and then a defence?  
DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, week off.  Staying in Dubai with the wife.  We are going to just chill out for a bit and then get back to work probably Friday and then yeah, down to South Africa to hopefully bring back some good memories and try and defend.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT