DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 20, 2015
Danny Willett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You holed a really nice putt on the last to keep it going and you're 6-under par.  Has it been a successful 36 holes?  
DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, we've played some pretty good golf.  Obviously on the last, left-to-right, only put I really holed all day, which is quite funny.  It's a strange game.   
But no, yeah, 6-under is not too bad.  The scoring is obviously going to be pretty low so we have to go pretty deep at the weekend.   
 Q.  What's it like at night, sleeping; is it all good?  Are you thinking about it?  There's so much, you can win the championship; you win the whole lot.  
DANNY WILLETT: It's just good fun, isn't it.  It's a good position to be in.  It's better than pitching up here in 59th or 60th place and not playing great and playing early every day.  We are in there with a shout and we keep putting some decent numbers up, and we just have to wait for another run on the greens.   
 Q.  Have you thought for yourself what it would be like for everybody around the world for you and Rory to be playing together on Sunday?  
DANNY WILLETT: I think that would be good.  I think that's kind of what people want to see with it being as close as what it is.  Obviously I think Rosey posted a decent score today.  Everyone's up there that would want to be up there.  I think Sunday with the few guys that have got a good chance to be playing with each other would be great.   
 Q.  Thoughts on being 6-under par after a round of 70 today?  
DANNY WILLETT: It was a bit average.  We played some good golf, obviously stumbled at the last, but playing good golf for the first 17 holes and only holed one reasonable one, a 15-footer.  Apart from that, we hit a couple stiff and that's about it, some nice golf shots, and not really capitalise.  Hopefully we can get it rolling over the weekend.   
 Q.  Does that mean it's one of those days or a continuation of some staleness you said in China?  
DANNY WILLETT: Same kind of thing.  Hitting it reasonably good and to decent positions and not quite getting it going.  You hole one on the last when you don't look like holing one all day.  I hit it terrible at the last and obviously walked away with the same score as Gracey.  It's a strange old game.  Going to go do a bit of work on the greens and get rested.   
 Q.  Have you looked at what Rory's shot and your relation to him now?  
DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, I think he's eight, so, yeah, a couple behind, obviously still two more days left.  I think with nine holes to go on Sunday, hopefully will be close.   
 Q.  No cause to hit the panic button yet?  
DANNY WILLETT: There's no reason to hit the panic button ever.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT