DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 19, 2015
Danny Willett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What are your thoughts on a good round to start?  
DANNY WILLETT: Well, I'm pleased with the way I got off to a bogey-free start.  The last nine was playing quite hard.  No breeze but it was warm out there.   
 Q.  What are your thoughts on a 4-under to start?  
DANNY WILLETT: Very good.  Again, still quite a short week, obviously flying in from China, trying to get your body back on the right time.  Had a good couple of days practice but still would like one more.  Yeah, went out there and played some pretty decent golf.  A couple of little scrappy ones in there, but none of the two of us played our best but 4-under will put you right up there.   
 Q.  You were thinking maybe delay the match play until the last nine on Sunday, but how has it been head-to-head with the No. 1 of present?  
DANNY WILLETT: It's good.  Obviously it helped both of us shooting a good number.  You can treat it a little bit like that.   
Like I said in the press conference earlier in the week, you don't want to play match play if you're level par, 1-over par but as soon as you're going along quite nicely, ended up being a pretty good match.  He holed a bunker shot on the last and me making four, so looks like might be playing again tomorrow.   
 Q.  Absolutely, when he does have a bunker shot like that at the last and you're over the putt, are you determined, just go on, make it now?  
DANNY WILLETT: I had all visions of missing it and doing stuff, but no, it was a good, fun day.  Like I said, put ourselves in a pretty good position going into the next round.   
 Q.  Nice in some tricky conditions with the wind picking up.  
DANNY WILLETT: Always is the case around here.  It's a bit calmer in the morning but usually a bit cooler.  You see a few decent scores in the morning.  The greens are obviously quite nice.  In the afternoon, we had a little firm, a little glassy, but pretty good, solid golf.  Like I said we kept it reasonably in play and went from there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT