BMW MASTERS
November 12, 2015
Danny Willett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You're understandably not too happy after that.  What was the problem today?  
DANNY WILLETT: Just couldn't quite get things going.  Drove it well.  Didn't quite get the numbers right or hit it close enough to make anything.  Just a very stale day.   
 Q.  It looked when you set out as though it was going on okay, and then coming in, you seemed to run into problems.  
DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, no, like I say, just the weather was obviously a bit dreary and stuff.  And a little bit of water on the ball:  A couple of times you get the numbers a little bit wrong, half a club out, with the water on it, not quite striking it and ended up being a club out and on these greens it ends up being a bit funky.  Just all in all, nothing really kind of went in.   
 Q.  You had such a brilliant finish last week.  Were you hoping to carry that momentum forward?  
DANNY WILLETT: No, it was a strange one last week.  The game's not felt great, and one of them where on Sunday last week, we kind of hit it into areas and ended up hitting a couple stiff, a couple close, took advantage of the par 5s and actually made a really good score out of what in all honesty feelings-wise wasn't great.   
We are working hard and we are working hard to try to get the feelings somewhat back.  It's obviously a long four-week stretch.  Trying to stay fresh and obviously give ourselves as good a chance in The Race to Dubai.   
 Q.  How do you tackle the next three days; it's going to be quite a battle for you.  
DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, it's one of them, regardless of what happens this week, whoever wins this week, if we win next week, we're going to win The Race to Dubai.  It's one of them where people are saying, you need to finish so-and-so.  But it also comes down to next week.   
It's nice to kind of get a bit of momentum going for next week but at the end of the day, if you win next week, then you get the job done.   
 Q.  Is this something that excites you and enthuses you to look forward to, or do you prefer not to think about it too much, what's going to happen next week?  
DANNY WILLETT: It's going to be good fun regardless what happens and the position you're in.  It's going to be a great week and a great experience to have a chance.  There's not loads of guys that can obviously say they have had a chance to do it and stuff and each year there's a couple two or three.   
Rory wrapped it up quite early last year, but this year there's probably four or five people that probably still have a chance of doing it.  Like I said, we are just going to try to keep battling and try to get a bit of momentum going into next week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT