WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 5, 2015
Danny Willett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Thoughts on the day?  
DANNY WILLETT: A bit disappointed with the finish.  All in all, didn't have the best warmup.  Had a good few days of prep.  I think me and Johnny said at the beginning, if you're going to miss two greens and two fairways, you're doing all right.  Really pleased; went out there, knuckled down and hit a lot of good shots.   
 Q.  So why not the good warmup?  
DANNY WILLETT: Just one of them things.  It's a crazy old game.  You have a bad warmup, play good; good warmup, play bad.  Can't really ever put your finger on it.  Just one of them things where you have to just say, feeling good but just try and grit it out a little bit.   
 Q.  I take it the course is playing differently with all that heavy rain we had yesterday, a bit softer?  
DANNY WILLETT: It was soft anyway yesterday and Monday.   Obviously it's not helped.  There's a few patches out there that you can get caught up in.  But I think on the whole, golf course is in pretty great shape.   
 Q.  You started your year down in South Africa with that wonderful victory at the Nedbank and you've been up there all the time since.  Is it beginning to feel like a long, long year and you're still involved?  
DANNY WILLETT: It's a good one, like you say, we've not dropped out of the top two on the Order of Merit all year.  I suppose when you win Nedbank, a pretty good leapfrog on everyone at the beginning of the season.  It's been nice to be up there.  I think Rory overtook us somewhere in the middle and we've been trying to claw our way back ever since.  It's 2 1/2 weeks left to try and claw a little more back.   
 Q.  As we don't tire of telling you, you could actually claw  him back, and in The Final Series there is a lot to play for.  
DANNY WILLETT: We played pretty nicely last week, didn't lose too much ground and again this week, you have to putt yourself somewhere near and see what happens.  I don't think he's playing next week, I don't know, and look I said, if you can be within touching distance going into Dubai, Dubai could be pretty interesting.   
If you can do it, great.  If you don't, it's one of them, you've been up there and it's obviously been nice being up there and trying to compete for it.  Yeah it would be nice come Sunday in Dubai.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT