THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2015
Danny Willett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Danny, you gave it a good go on the back nine.DANNY WILLETT: It was good.  We left ourselves a lot to do.  21 putts on the front nine for 1-over is not great, is it, and I hit it nice and couldn't get anything going.  Yeah, back nine started out really, really well, obviously, hit a lot of good golf shots.  A little bit of a shame to finish as we did on 17, but no, yeah, all in all it was a pretty good week.  I'll probably end up finishing probably comfortably top 10, so yeah, I was in it, I guess.Q. And leading Englishman, as well.DANNY WILLETT: Well, I don't know, Rosey is not finished yet, but there might be a few people I don't know I beat out, which would be nice.Q. Did you achieve some goals this week?DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, we've been right up there in contention pretty much from the get-go.  And I playing some good golf.  We had a little bit of a stale spell with the putter yesterday and then obviously the front nine today and it kind of cost us.  I think we're probably going to finish maybe four our five back, so you know, they can easily be picked up there, so there's a lot of positives to be taken.Q. Do you feel like you actually put golf on the map in Yorkshire?DANNY WILLETT: I don't really know to be honest.  You'll have to ask other people that.  Yorkshire is very good golfing county, amateur level and stuff.  There's been a lot of good pros coming out of it, yeah, so I think over the next few years you'll probably see a few more.Q. (Inaudible.)DANNY WILLETT: I think it's good.  Obviously we've got the Wee Willett stuff for the really young kids and the Lee has got his foundation for the elderly ones.  In that area of the country you've got two pretty good ones there I'd say.Q. Does it start with a flight for tomorrow?DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, driving home tonight and then early flight tomorrow morning up to Switzerland to meet my mum and dad.  They've been there all day watching the golf, so yeah, it'll be a good week next week.Q. What's it meant to you and your career to have a week like this?DANNY WILLETT: It's been good.  Obviously finished 15th at Muirfield a couple years back.  We've had some decent finishes along the way, as well.  Yeah, but no, like I said, being in contention all week has been nice, kind of being around the mix and in the last few groups is always that much better.Q. Do you feel comfortable there?DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, we've played good golf.  It's always good obviously to -- I think it's good to play with someone like Zach today who could potentially win it and actually you can look back and see how they won it, what they did, what they didn't do and stuff like that you can learn from.Q. (Inaudible.)DANNY WILLETT: It's been good.  It's been a bit mental on Twitter and stuff, but being out there has been great.  The spectators -- it's not exactly been the nicest week weather wise.  I'm guessing what the numbers 25,000, 30,000 people today which is awesome for any championship and obviously that last walk up is pretty special.Q. (Inaudible)?DANNY WILLETT: No, he's picking his tee peg up and I walk past him and it slipped when I walked past him.  No, he said sorry.  I think he was going to pick his peg up and slipped and said sorry.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT