THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2015
Danny Willett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Danny, it might not be the round you wanted, but you have to feel good after that.DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, three shots back at an Open Championship is never too far back, is it, obviously.  So no, weather conditions today were pretty calm most of the day and they just picked up a little bit, got pretty cold down the last few.  A little bit tricky, but yeah, I just couldn't quite get anything going between us and didn't really do what we probably wanted to.Q. (Inaudible.)DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, I mean, we played good, played good going out there, hit some good shots.  Again, there was one or two bad swings in there, but apart from that, no, it was a pretty well rounded day, just like I said, didn't quite score when we had the chance.Q. I know it wasn't the greatest event, but the support was fantastic coming up 17 and 18.DANNY WILLETT: Support has been good.  Support has been good all week.  Again, obviously having British fans up there in the British Open, it's what the crowds want, playing obviously just behind Mark and Paul, as well.  You know, there was a few cheers there for the Scottish lads.  It's been amazing.Q. (Inaudible.)DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, it's good.  It's never bad when so many people are cheering you on, is it.  It's a lot better than if they're booing you.Q. (Inaudible.)DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, we were watching the stuff to see how people were getting on.  It was a bit of a silly day, I think, for guys who went out there kind of middle of the morning.  There was a lot of low scores in there.  Yeah, I mean, you can't have your luck to kind of gauge roughly what people are doing and guys went out there and kept the same trend going.  Coming down the last few, obviously I think if you could have had semi-bad conditions, it was a little bit cold and a little bit windy later on, but conditions were pretty good for scoring today.Q. (Inaudible.)DANNY WILLETT: No, we thought it was all right.  It must have just kept drifting.  I don't know, I haven't seen it, but it was only about six inches over there, so I don't kind of know how it got there.  But yeah, I said it was kind of just riding the breeze a little bit, but must have just kept going.  Good 6 in the end.Q. Did you see it go?DANNY WILLETT: No, we hit a provisional because they said they weren't sure.  We were still semi-unsure as to what was going on really.  It was a bit surreal.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT