WGC CADILLAC MATCH PLAY
May 3, 2015
Danny Willett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You came in this week obviously hoping for a lot of good things, and you did get a good result, third place finisher, and you possibly get the exempt status on the PGA Tour?
DANNY WILLETT:   Yeah, it's a bit of a crazy day, obviously.   This morning played some really good golf against Gary and he played great.   And this afternoon I played pretty good.   A few loose ones.   But, yeah, happy with it.

Q.   Playing next week at THE PLAYERS Championship, excited about that?
DANNY WILLETT:   Yeah, that will be good.   Again, trying to play a few events over here and see if we can get the money up.   And luckily we've just about covered that, which is nice.   And then we can kind of build in a schedule.

Q.   When you came to San Francisco this week, did you have a sense that you might be able to have a week like you had?
DANNY WILLETT:   I've been playing good.   I've had a couple of good weeks of practice back home.   Things are kind of in the right place and the golf course suited my eye.   And, again, it's a different format.   I haven't played it for a few years.   But obviously it was nice to get back into match play.   I played a lot as an amateur.   But, yeah, it was a good week.

Q.   Besides finishing third this afternoon, are you aware of what you have accomplished today?
DANNY WILLETT:   Yeah, we kind of had a little inkling.   Obviously we've played a few events now over here, and we've got a little bit of points and money up.   So we knew that a decent one today would potentially give us a card for next year, which was kind of what we were hoping for.

Q.   You celebrated your second wedding anniversary at the beginning of the week.   Now you've got your special temporary membership, pretty special week for you, wasn't it?
DANNY WILLETT:   It's been a good week.   It's been a pretty crazy year with a win early on, and all the points we've racked up at home.   It's nice to come over here and play big events. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT