WGC CADILLAC MATCH PLAY
May 1, 2015
Danny Willett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   If you look at the records in your pool, undefeated, it's pretty easy for you to get out of there.   Was it that easy for you?  
DANNY WILLETT:   No, some good matches, really good matches.   I said on the first day.   The last two days I played solid golf and again today.   You never feel comfortable out here until you've taken your round with a win.   
   
 Q.   Taking on a guy that I know you like to play against, Lee Westwood.   He's a proven match play player.   What are you looking for from him?  
DANNY WILLETT:   You just know you're going to see a lot of good quality golf shots.   That's been Lee's game for many, many years.  
   
 Q.   Is Westwood one you would have looked up to in your career?  
DANNY WILLETT:   He is.   Obviously I've gotten to know him over the last few years.   We have a laugh about it, he's 42.   We had a giggle, my stepmother‑in‑law is not far off the same age.  
You know that he's going to come out and be playing some good golf.   But I also feel like if you can put some pressure on him there, you know, as you've seen through this week, there's been a few upsets and good golf being played and average golf being played.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
DANNY WILLETT:   It's not like anyone is going to give you easy matches.   Top 64 guys in the world.   And you've got to come at it with your "A" game and hope that they're not quite on.   Or if you're not quite on or they're not quite on you can steal it.   Every match from the start of the week was tough.   And especially from now on in.   
   
 Q.   Exciting for the weekend?  
DANNY WILLETT:   It's good.   It's nice.   I feel like my game is in a good place.   Obviously to do it in this way was good.   Different format this year.   It would be a three‑way playoff with me, Sully and Patrick Reed.   One hole anything can happen.   It was nice to get that polished off.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT