MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2015
Danny Willett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   First round in the Masters, baking heat, 1‑under par, how do you feel about that?
DANNY WILLETT:   Really pleased.   Wind is just picking up now.   If you could ask for tee times, you would probably want second or third, that does get about 15 holes without much wind there.   That makes this place play as easy as you could probably get it.

Q.   What were you most pleased with today? 
DANNY WILLETT:   Long game was good.   Ball‑striking is good.   Hit a lot golf tee shots.   Hit a lot of nice iron shots.   I think it was, two, three, put it where we didn't quite want to. 
And then 3, really simple bogey.   To not make a double and three bogeys, you're going to make a few birdies out here, so you have to try to limit your mistakes.

Q.   The eagle means a bit of crystal already. 
DANNY WILLETT:   Yeah, the kind of thing you're dreaming of when you're a kid, boxing a long one across the green. 

Q.   It was massive. 
DANNY WILLETT:   It was a good 50‑foot.

Q.   Was it everything you expected it to be?
DANNY WILLETT:   Yeah, it was brilliant.   First tee was awesome.   Obviously different way of announcing off the first tee, 7:56 tee time, second off; there was already 20,000 people around the golf course, just really special.

Q.   Presumably you were here to see the Honorary Starters? 
DANNY WILLETT:   I said hello to Gary‑‑ sorry, Mr.Player, on the range. 

Q.   Take us through the eagle. 
DANNY WILLETT:   Yeah, you look anywhere on that one, you're pretty happy, you know it's going to be a stupidly‑breaking putt.   The ball is somewhere around your kneecaps when you're hitting that second shot, so it's always hard to hit a fade into a back‑right flag, so just make sure it didn't get too far right. 

Q.   It was traveling when it hit the hole‑‑
DANNY WILLETT:   No, that one, no, the one at 16 was.   That one actually went in a pretty good place. 

Q.   What was the second shot? 
DANNY WILLETT:   I think it was 213, 217. 

Q.   What is the break on it? 
DANNY WILLETT:   A good 18.   Not far off.   All the way back straight and letting it come almost backwards.

Q.   What are your thoughts on how the front nine is playing?
DANNY WILLETT:   Yeah, you can see it.   It's got a nice, general start.   Obviously the flag positions are relatively sneaky, but you can have a couple of wedges into a few of them.   These guys have played it a lot of times, they are all very good golfers, so you're going to see a lot of birdies. 
It's just when you get the ball down around 12, 13, 14, the wind starts to flick around.   There's a few flags where you really can't be on the side, so if you do, you're going to have to take your five or six.

Q.   How difficult, if at all, is it between taking in how brilliant it is, and wanting to play well?
DANNY WILLETT:   That's why you prepare, you come up on Sunday and Monday, you try to take it all in then. 
Today was more about just trying to cool down and get back to doing your job.   It's one of them that I feel like I kind of should be here kind of thing, but you're not trying to put too much pressure on yourself.   To be here all four days the first time out is a nice one. 
Over the years, you look at guys, the more you play it, the better your chances are of getting it around.   You know where your misses are.   For first time around, pretty good. 

Q.   17, was there a wind that went against you? 
DANNY WILLETT:   No, we were being timed, which I can appreciate.   It's a little bit tricky out here, so it takes a little bit of time‑‑ but you'd like to think the referee that's timing you, he knows exactly where to put his buggy and where not to putt his buggy, and probably on the line is not the best‑‑ yeah, the rules official, I'll have a word with him.

Q.   When did you get a time? 
DANNY WILLETT:   I got put on the clock on 15. 

Q.   Did you offer him some advice on where he should park his buggy in the future?
DANNY WILLETT:   He drove off.   Didn't quite get to tell him exactly.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT