TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN BY THE MINISTRY OF YOUTH AND SPORT
November 15, 2014
Danny Willett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What are your thoughts on a third round 69 to move nicely up that board?
DANNY WILLETT:   Yeah, it's been good, it's been good, consistent golf for three days.   We were looking to get 27 holes in and just with the right, I think everyone is going to get finished.   Looking for some good weather tomorrow and keep pressing on.

Q.   I suppose you've had to show adaptability with the sunshine initially and the wind picking up and the rain. 
DANNY WILLETT:   It's been a full bag of tricks.   It was glorious the first day, and yesterday it got gusty before the storm came.   And then today was a little bit breezy this morning, and a lot wetter, so the golf course played longer and the rough is obviously playing a bit thicker.   And turned out to be a little bit cooler, wind switched, and not too bad this afternoon. 

Q.   Making your fair share of birdies?
DANNY WILLETT:   Yeah, been playing very consistent golf, hitting a lot of good golf shots and taking quite a few chances.   There's the odd one that slips away here and there, make a silly bogey, and I guess everyone is doing that with the scoring not being as low as last year. 

Q.   We are all experienced enough to know that this game can change very quickly.   What were your thoughts halfway knowing at that stage, Ian Poulter was six clear? 
DANNY WILLETT:   It was strange, we thought he was obviously going to press on a little.
Again, the golf course played a good bit longer, and all you need to do is miss a couple of the fairways at the wrong times by a few yards and a few of the trees are in the way or you get bad lies and you have to kind of pitch out.   It's one of them, you can actually play relatively good and get a little bit unlucky and shoot a few over; or vice versa, you can play well and shoot a good score. 
Like I say, I'm obviously happy everyone came back a little bit, two behind going into tomorrow, it's good position.

Q.   Exciting, isn't it, going into Sunday in this kind of position?
DANNY WILLETT:   It's always nice, isn't it.   Played consistent golf all year.   It's not a place that we've not been all year, really, so again, just go out there tomorrow and try to play some good golf and see if we can make a handful of birdies.

Q.   It would certainly be a nice way to finish the season, with this one and a big one again next week?
DANNY WILLETT:   Yeah, yeah, it's nice.   Obviously last year we came here with 62nd or 63rd in The Race to Dubai, so we came here, we didn't play great.   This year we've come in nice position, trying to push for Top 20, Top 15 and we have put ourselves in a good position. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT