PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2014
Danny Willett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Just give us your thoughts about your great round, 66.   
DANNY WILLETT:   I didn't play great really.   The back wasn't great today.   Chipped and putted my way around really nice today.   Got the most out of this round at the end of the day.  
   
 Q.   What was up with the back?  
DANNY WILLETT:   It's been going for a while.   Just one of them today, woke up and wasn't feeling.   I took pain‑killers, but it's just been needling a little bit.  
   
 Q.   The course was set up for low scores today?   
DANNY WILLETT:   Yeah, we said that today.   They've obviously set it up for someone to go low and try and obviously catch or overtake Rory if he doesn't go and burn up himself.   
There's a couple of tees up.   Five positions.   There's a couple tucked away, but as long as the greens hold up with the rain that they have had and the spike marks, it should be a low scoring day for everyone, I think.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible) are you aware of a major championship record?  
DANNY WILLETT:   No, I haven't got a clue to be honest.   We were just kind of press forward and keep pressing.   
Like I said, we took on shots when we felt like we could.   Apart from that, we just played relatively conservative and didn't try to do anything stupid, make any silly mistakes.   You can go out and shoot a nice score with a slightly dodgey back and hopefully get it started for tomorrow and then come out firing tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Nobody has ever shot 62 in a major.   It was a chance there for a while?  
DANNY WILLETT:   There was a chance after 4, but that's still 14 left.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
DANNY WILLETT:   It was actually an all right golf shot there.   Tried to cut 5‑iron into that front right flag.   It just stayed up the left.   It's only kind of 18 inches off the edge of the green.   Chipped it down to 6, 8 feet, but missed it.   
In fairness, I've hit worst golf shots today and got away with it and made scores.   It was one of those things.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT