OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 31, 2014
Danny Willett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DANNY WILLETT:   Played really good.   It's a great time to play golf out here in the desert.   Wind picks up around 11 or 12, and it's getting there a little bit now but still a beautiful day and the greens are obviously as good as you can get them.   
The back nine is obviously the scorable nine.   You have three par 5s and 17, the short par 4.   Didn't miss a green, hit a couple of par 5s in two.   When the wind picks up, gets a little trickier, with the doglegs with the breeze out of one side or the other.   9, nice to make a birdie.   Overall, two good days work.   
Our half noon tee time was half eleven, so not exactly afternoon, but if you saw from Rory and Tiger, the amount of lower scores in the morning, was lower than the afternoon, just because the greens are a little bit softer and the wind is a little bit less.   But even in the afternoon, someone is going to go out and shoot a number.  
   
 Q.   Tell us about your preparations for this week.   
DANNY WILLETT:   Yeah, the skydive on Monday was obviously a different way to start the week.   But in all fairness, if you stand on the first tee, trying to hit a drive into the fairway, seemed a little bit less nerve‑wracking than jumping out of a plane at 13,000 feet, you never know, might have prepared us quite well.   
As soon as you jump out, you kind of go‑‑ you're looking down, all you can see is obviously the sea and surrounding area and you're thinking, what are we doing.   Then after the initial jump, you start to kind of level out and feels like you're floating down, it's unbelievable.  
   
 Q.   What's the reason for doing it?   
DANNY WILLETT:   We did it for charity, British Heart Foundation and breast cancer.   Joanie's dad had a heart attack a few years ago, and I've done stuff with breast cancer for a few years now with Clarkey on the charity days he does.   Seems two really fitting causes to do it for.  
   
 Q.   And now you're flying up the leaderboard, so what are your thoughts on your position on that board?   
DANNY WILLETT:   You know, at the minutes pretty good,   tied second is going to be all right but you're going to probably see 12, 13, maybe even 14 by the end of the day I would have thought if someone could catch fire.   But playing really nicely, the consistency is still there from the last few weeks.   We played lovely so we are up there again for the weekend.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT