THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2013
Danny Willett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Was that better today?
DANIEL WILLETT:  Yeah, a little bit better.  Played all
right for the most part and poorly again.  Hopefully the wind
blows a bit for the weekend.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
DANIEL WILLETT:  Fiery bunker on the left.  Yeah, the
3-wood has not been great this week.  Do a little bit of work on
it this afternoon and hopefully get a chance to play it tomorrow.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
DANIEL WILLETT:  I honestly couldn't tell you.  Hopefully
this time it can help with that a little bit.
Q.  When you get to the turn, are you thinking about a number
you need to post?
DANIEL WILLETT:  No, you're just trying to play golf.  I
thought if I could get it back level, 4-over, for the day, you'd
be safe.  And I didn't quite manage it.
Hopefully, like I said, hopefully it's good enough.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
DANIEL WILLETT:  Yeah, yesterday was just a ridiculous
finish.  Today again it's not a great finish.  Today was into the
breeze and yesterday down breeze.  Very different with the breeze
obviously.
Q.  How is the course playing?
DANIEL WILLETT:  The greens obviously today, I don't know
what they're doing, but they're a lot slower this morning
obviously with the dew on the ground and stuff.  I mean it's
still -- it will be interesting this afternoon.  Yesterday I think
I was more unhappy with how I finished and stuff.  But there was a
score out there yesterday, you saw Tiger shoot good in the
afternoon.  A couple of guys played well in the afternoon.  And
again today there will be a score out there again.
Q.  What do you do now, go to the driving range?
DANIEL WILLETT:  We're going to have a bit of food and
chill out.  And come back a lot later on when it calms down on the
range.  It might be a bit of breakfast and then back to chill out
for a few hours and come back later.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
DANIEL WILLETT:  The game is not far away.  It's just
been a frustrating year, obviously being stuck -- it would bnice
to get thrown a couple of nice bounces here and there would have
been good.  I hit it in a couple of spots that we shouldn't have.
The game is coming on.  The only problem is we're not playing for
five weeks.  I need to make the cut this week, and obviously have
a good week.  If I don't, and obviously it's probably four or five
weeks off.  So like I said, hopefully it's good enough.









END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT