THE 148TH OPEN
July 21, 2019
Danny Willett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  That looked pretty brutal out there.  
DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, it was.  Obviously had a chance going out, which most people took, that was 1 through 5.  And then from kind of 7 on the weather was around us, for the best part of 2 1/2 hours.  It showed its teeth.  And just goes to show what the weather around a links golf course is.   
Yesterday you got 63, 65, 66s and then if you shoot level par today you shoot unbelievable.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
DANNY WILLETT: The second at the U.S. Open put me in good stead here for feeling the nerves down the stretch.  Played great there.  Obviously won at Bridgestone a few years ago.  And he's got great ball flight, good ball game for this type of weather.   
Today was going to be a test to chase him down unless he blew up a little bit.  And this weather is one of them where it's very hard for guys to chase in this kind of weather.  But what is he today, 1-over?  Under that pressure in these conditions it showed phenomenal golf.   
I don't think the guys here on the 18th green, there's four guys that I really wanted to win this week, and Shane is one of them.   
 Q.  What do you take from the experiences?  Has it been good?  
DANNY WILLETT: It really has.  The Open is a very special golf tournament for us.  And this one in particular, it's the second-highest I've ever had.  Golfing in this part of the world is monumental.  And luckily I think it's going to be back here a couple of times in the next 10 or 15 years.   
I think this has been a fantastic spectacle for all the fans this week.  And they've had a really good mix of weather, really good test of a golf course in different conditions, different winds.   
 Q.  In your experience of winning the Masters, what advice would you want Shane to take winning his first major?  
DANNY WILLETT: Take some time off.  Spend it with your family and friends, enjoy what you accomplished.  It doesn't happen very often.  You need to enjoy it and then get yourself back and refocused and try and press on.   
It's very easy to get pulled in different directions.  Shane has a little one now, so he'll be more on trying to stay with his pals and trying to chill out.  Be a little bit selfish and do what's right for him.  Try not to get pulled off and sent around the world to play a bit of golf.   
These are the championships you want to win.   
 Q.  Then you reevaluate and ask more of yourself after that?  
DANNY WILLETT: Just I made a few bad decisions after that to play too much golf when I didn't really fancy it.  If I could go back and do it again, I would do it differently.  But you go forward next time it happens.   
 Q.  What's next for you?  
DANNY WILLETT: I go back to Memphis.  This is obviously fantastic for us this year because we're playing such a small schedule in Europe.  Memphis next week and we'll see.   
 Q.  It will be nice to have some sunshine.  
DANNY WILLETT: It will be.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT