DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 23, 2012
Danny Willett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DANNY WILLETT:   14 wasn't playing massively long, dragged a 4‑iron in there, didn't hit a great 4‑iron in there but got in pretty close, about two, three feet away and then hit a really nice tee shot on the next, a cut drive.   They got the tee up obviously but into the breeze and hit a nice quick drive into there to about 15, 18 feet.   Holed that as well.   Tried to go for three in a row on 16 but a tricky one.   
   
 Q.   You and your playing partner matched each other pretty much stride for stride but he was saying it was pretty boring on the front nine; that he just couldn't get it going.  
DANNY WILLETT:   It was weird, just couldn't get anything going.   There were a few holes that were playing pretty tricky with the breeze.   Between us, couldn't really get anything going, and then on the back nine, I just got the driver in play a little bit more and a little bit longer and just gives that you little bit more loft in, control often fairways, just makes a massive difference around this golf course and then obviously you've got to roll in a few as well.  
   
 Q.   What made the difference in the two days?   
DANNY WILLETT:   Yesterday kind of felt like today's front nine.   Just played all right.   I had a penalty shot yesterday.   The ball moved on the grain yesterday after I had addressed it and stuff.   It just was one of them kind of days where I did a lot right, but didn't quite get it going and stuff.   
It's nice to put in a good round today and actually get yourself back up there and in with a shout.  
   
 Q.   With the redraw each day, you know exactly where you are.   
DANNY WILLETT:   You know where you are in the pecking order, and you know that if you play well, you get a lie in.   If you look at my results the last two times I've been here out of three years, my alarm clock has been set for half past four seven of the eight rounds.   This week, 10.55 the first day, 9.25 today, should improve tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Does that mean you're beginning to like this course a little bit more?  
DANNY WILLETT:   I think I'm learning to get around it a bit better.   A lot of the time around here, I think I've played a bit too conservatively the first few times I came and you're almost better off missing it on the short‑side, because you've got an uphill chip into the grain.   
I always left myself the other side, and you've got a 30‑, 40‑footer up and over a hill, down the grain, and you're almost better off, which is why you see a lot of the guys up on the leaderboard are very aggressive players.   You go after it, you miss a couple on the short‑side, usually a bit simpler to chip.   
Basically end of the year, everyone is here to try to bump into the Top‑10, so it's kind of that or nothing.   So you've just got to go out there and try to make as many birdies as you can.  
   
 Q.   And that's the stated aim, bump into the Top‑10?  
DANNY WILLETT:   Yeah, it's been a long way off.   I don't know what I need.   It's probably a top two I would have said.   But it's been a good year.   It's been an iffy‑‑ there's been a few dodgy spells in there but it's been a relatively consistent year.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT