PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 14, 2012
Danny Willett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DANNY WILLETT:   Not a bad way to start your day.   It was an early start after yesterday's shambles of a round.   So, no, it's always good to finish off nicely on Sunday. 

Q.   What happened?   What went right that has not gone right for the previous three days?
DANNY WILLETT:   It has been pretty tough out there you know.   We looked around yesterday afternoon and guys are shooting under par rounds and the greens were firm and it was crosswinds.   It was quite tricky and I just couldn't see some of the scores that they were having. 
You know, I've been struggling with the game all week and to be honest, the short game's been a joke today.   Driven it nice.   Hit a lot of shots in play, and then hit a few all right shots in, made the par 5s easy as possible and the short par 4s, pretty simple, chipping it close.   It's been a pretty good day with the wedges and the putter.

Q.   Was there a moment early on where you thought, this could be good?
DANNY WILLETT:   No.   No.   We started quite slow.   We didn't birdie until the 4th and had a 60‑yard shot pitch and knocked it in close and birdied.   Then up‑and‑down on the next, the par5 for birdie.   Even then you're only 2‑under through seven.   And it's not really anything special. 
And then we hit a few nice shots and made a few putts but nothing really daft.   That was the longest one on the last, always nice to knock it in there close.   7‑under is a good score, so going middle of the green, and then to box a 35‑footer is always pleasant.

Q.   As things stand, that is the lowest round of the week?
DANNY WILLETT:   That's nice.   It's weird, we looked at it yesterday, I was sat there yesterday having some food before I went out and the scores were low in the mornings and the wind was still there or thereabouts and you can see why the greens are just that little more receptive and they are rolling a little bit better. 
The wind is not quite as strong and everything edges towards it, which has been a little bit easier.   Like I said I really struggled yesterday.   I thought it was quite tough yesterday afternoon.   But then today, we have not really done much wrong.   We have not done anything stupid.   We really have pitched, chipped and putted it lovely. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT