BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 23, 2012
Danny Willett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DANNY WILLETT:   Got the ball under pretty good control most of the day.   Wind was whipping around a bit but drove the ball great which makes it a lot easier around this golf course.   
Got a way with a couple of awkward ones with a couple of nice putts, but you have to, really, and if you want to be in contention, you have to have things go your way a little bit.   It's good to be back in a position where I feel like I should be.   
   
 Q.   At the same time, it did look really, really good to the point where, was that as bad a score as you could shoot in many ways today?  
DANNY WILLETT:   Yes, and no.   Yeah, holed a couple of nice ones and you get away with a couple of wayward once, yeah, like I say, I missed a few chances here and there but it all has a way of evening itself out.   I've played good and I've played good all week.   See if we can keep it going tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   You're a pretty confident guy when you get going, and when you get on a run, that's when you're at your best.   
DANNY WILLETT:   I like playing in the fairway, not on the run but it's been difficult in recent years to slow down a little bit when I've been playing.   I walk quick and I play pretty quick.   
So tomorrow is just a case of making sure you go through everything properly, make sure you get the right numbers in your land and you have the right feeling for the shot and see what you can do.  
   
 Q.   And we know of your injuries now, you must be looking forward to getting out tomorrow and having a really good crack at it.   
DANNY WILLETT:   Regardless of tomorrow, we have got a spell of four really good weeks, Open Qualifying Monday, and then we go Ireland, France, Scotland and then there are some great events at the end of the season.   So I'm just looking forward to being able to play probably another 12 or 13 events on my schedule this year, fairly fit, lots of training and get on a really good leap forward from where I've been.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT