BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 21, 2012
Danny Willett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How good was it?
DANNY WILLETT:   Played lovely the front nine, didn't do much, but made a bunker shot on 9 to birdie to go to 2‑under and played lovely the back nine, hit every green, every fairway.   Had a lot of chances.   Knocked a 3‑iron on 16 to three feet.   Just really solid. 
But the golf course is relatively wet.   There wasn't much breeze.   It was there for the taking and try to find a way to keep your score in.   The greens are receptive, but you hit some good shots, get some good numbers in, you can get close.

Q.   You say for the taking, there was a feeling on the Pro‑Am that with the rain and dodgy weather‑‑
DANNY WILLETT:   We were in the rough early doors.   We teed up just before nine o'clock and we were in the rough on the second, and we hit 6‑iron from 160.   It is still claggy there, but hope you get a drop in and get a semi‑decent lie and not too far back. 
I do hit it a relatively long way, so if I hit a drive and get in the rough, you can kind of get away with it because you're coming in with probably a couple extra clubs than most, but kept the ball in play, hit it good. 

Q.   Good word, claggy, but if you miss the claggy stuff, there are plenty of chances? 
DANNY WILLETT:   Yeah, we probably only missed about four fairways.   We are hitting it long.   So we had a lot of mid‑shot irons in the hand, which is ideal, some of these tight flags. 
So I think it was just a well thought out round, laid back on a couple of the tees with 3‑wood and didn't have to go with driver.   It was a clever round of golf and played really nice and holed a few putts.

Q.   What's the story of your game overall?   A bit of inconsistency?
DANNY WILLETT:   Yeah, this year's been better.   Last year obviously I had injuries.   I've only been fully fit now for three months.   So the last year, year and a half before that, after the second finish at Dunhill, Martin came down the stretch playing well, I had a fracture in my rib and since that, injuries have been every now and again or nicked with something else. 
Only the last three months I've been fully fit so fully practising, fully training.   That's kind of a bit of it.   But this year, there's been a lot of cuts, but yeah, the weekend has been a bit poor; whether that's been doing a bit too much early on in the week, so just trying to find a good balance there. 

Q.   Got to ask you about how to put a grip on a club.   I've seen the challenge that Callaway did for you.   Are there a few choice words being said in that? 
DANNY WILLETT:   It was good fun.   When you do work experience as a kid, it's all you do when you're 16, you go to your local pro shop for a couple of weeks and they give you the jobs of cleaning shoes and stuff.   So there's a couple that have obviously not done it before but a few have done it all right.

Q.   You should have a deft hand?
DANNY WILLETT:   I think we had the second quickest time overall.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT