BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 23, 2011
Danny Willett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How was it?
 DANNY WILLETT: It was good. I played really nice. I missed only two greens and maybe three fairways. Played really solid. A bit slow in the middle but I think I shot 31 on the back nine which was a nice consolation.

 Q. How were playing conditions?
 DANNY WILLETT: They were perfect. Looked like it was going to be a bit iffy this morning, maybe get a bit of rain, but it's been about 18, 20 degrees all morning, and really not much wind out there, so it's perfect. 

 Q. How do you feel with your game in general for the last couple of weeks?
 DANNY WILLETT: Game's been really good. I've been practising hard. I've been in the gym and stuff working but just not really been clicking, not really quite getting it around, which was kind of the tale today for the first eight holes, level par. 
 But then more so today than any other round, I probably stayed a bit more patient today and then shot 6-under for the last ten. So it was a nice way to finish.

 Q. Just scoring basically, you're stroking the ball well? 
 DANNY WILLETT: I'm just hitting it really nice, with my iron shots. Didn't miss many fairways. 

 Q. 6-under par, just one shot off the lead, how pleased are with you that?
 DANNY WILLETT: Really pleased. I had a couple of weeks off. I was in No Man's Land after Wentworth and Celtic Manor. The game was good but I wasn't scoring, I was getting really frustrated, obviously missed them two cuts and then I've had a thumb injury.
 So I've had a couple of weeks off. Been to America and seen the guys at Callaway and did some good work out there, a good few days of practise and rested up. The game is in really good shape, so it was nice to come out today and shoot a good one.

 Q. Lots of birdies, you did particularly well over the back nine. 
 DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, I was just saying, we have been struggling all year scoring-wise and I've been hitting it really nice. And the first eight holes, we missed maybe one green but was only level par, hitting really quite close, but just not really made any. 
 Like I said today more than most days I probably stayed a bit more patient, try to work on that a little bit and then finished it on the last ten which is a great finish.

 Q. Is there a bit of relief after a round like today, that, okay, it's there again? 
 DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, there is. When you are struggling a bit, you can never see a low score. You are playing and you're playing and you just keep shooting level or 1-over or 1-under and playing really well and you look at some of the scores on TV, like Italy, guys are shooting 21- 22-under par for four rounds thinking, how can you compete with that? But it was nice to come out today, we saw Boyder was low early doors, and it was nice to come out there and actually score like we really felt like we played.

 Q. Lots of young talented amateurs like Rory McIlroy have come through and done the business recently, does kind of inspire in a way?
 DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, it does. I watched all four rounds last week and watched Rory. I mean, it was awesome. I played Walker Cup with Rory three years ago now, maybe four, and I mean, he was always really good. That last week was unreal. That was just dominance over the field. It was good to watch. You.
 Have two weeks off and you watch that, and it actually makes you want to get up and go play again and get back out here as soon as you can. But then obviously coming out here, my expectations are still high, but it was good today that I kind of stayed patient and kept the head in a little bit longer than usual. 

 Q. What did you do to your thumb? 
 DANNY WILLETT: We had to pull out of the U.S. Open Qualifying the second round, hit a shot in the fairway and jolted it my thumb and was standing there and there was fluid under the joint. Just jarred it but quite badly. It was strapped up for the best part of two weeks when I was playing and stuff. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT