BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 22, 2010
Danny Willett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Lots of up-and-downs and colour on the board, how did you feel out there?  
 DANNY WILLETT: I feel good. I felt like I played really good. I just hit a few loose ones and made a few silly bogeys but I made a lot of birdies out there, but I'm still in with a shout right now.  
  
  Q. You've had three Top-10s already on The European Tour this year, but to be here in this position at the BMW PGA Championship, what's that like? Is it a different pressure, do you think?  
 DANNY WILLETT: Not really. You go out and try and play good golf every day and see what you can do. Hopefully I can play good enough to win.  
  
  Q. What about your relationship with Malcolm? He's an old hand at this. Is it a good partnership?   
 DANNY WILLETT: It is, yeah. We are like chalk and cheese but on the golf course, obviously Malcolm's experience plays dividends when you're in a position like this and hopefully we can do it tomorrow.   
  
  Q. You look like an excitable player, you do get into it, how do you control your emotions?   
 DANNY WILLETT: I'm getting better. I think it's good when you're playing well to get a little bit of a run to do that. But I'm getting better at putting it behind, every time I had a bogey, I came back with some good shots on the next hole.   
 It was up-and-down but I think I controlled things pretty good.   
  
  Q. Roller coaster of a round, four bogeys and a double, but each time you came back with a birdie on the very next hole. How proud of yourself are you for that?  
 DANNY WILLETT: Good. Mentally I think that showed a lot of toughness out there. Played really good. Just like you said, the bogeys and doubles were pretty stupid, a couple of bad shots here and there. But I hit enough good ones to make birdies and wind up with a pretty good score.  
  
  Q. How excited are you to be up there in this Flagship Event.   
 DANNY WILLETT: It's good. I felt pretty calm inside because I've been playing nice, but yeah, it's always good to be in this position, and coming back on Sunday is always a good place to do it.   
  
  Q. Tomorrow could be life-changing for you.   
 DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, going to go out and try to do the same things.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT