BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 21, 2010
Danny Willett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. An explosive start and a good finish, wasn't it? 
 DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, got off to a really quick start, put a bit of space between me and the lads behind, but few pitfalls, and wind swirled around, and me and Malcolm between us got a few long, went long on a few greens and struggled to get up-and-down from where the flags were. We hit it all right, but just didn't quite hole the putts we did yesterday. 

 Q. Three birdies in the first few holes was like shelling peas, wasn't it?
 DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, I had two good putts on 1 and 2, and knocked it on on 4 and 2-putted. I felt it was quite easy, but then this golf course, you have to be careful and keep your head down and you've still got to hit good shots.

 Q. Talk me through the last. That is quite a remarkable par given what you did off the tee. 
 DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, I mean, we didn't think I'd be able to get to the water. We thought it was slightly in. I hit a good drive, thought it was going to be perfect, obviously flew the trap and pitched on the downslope and got in. It was on the top end of it so probably had some pace. 
 Then it was just -- we weren't sure where to drop it. We either drop it on the downslope quite close or drop it reasonably flat and have 5-iron in. Thought as long as you have a good lie, you should have good line in there and get up-and-down to finish with a par. 

 Q. Couldn't have quite expected that but not the ideal way, way of playing it. 
 DANNY WILLETT: No, yesterday was the ideal way of playing the last three holes and today was a bit different. But take it as it comes. Hopefully tomorrow we can finish it off better.

 Q. How much does it take out of you playing this course, because you're on the game all the time. 
 DANNY WILLETT: You have to be on the ball you have to be concentrating. It's a lot earlier than what I think it looked like on TV. There's a lot of elevations on the tee boxes down to the fairways a lot of times and height up to the greens. It's a bit tiring on the legs and stuff, probably more tiring mentally. You've really got to be sharp all the time. 

 Q. You really do have to concentrate over so many of those shots. 
 DANNY WILLETT: With the wind swirling and stuff in the trees, you've got to stand up there and trust that you and your caddie have got the wind right between you when you hit a shot. And when it starts swirling around, it messes with you and you maybe back off it and you have to get back in and regroup and try to play it from there.

 Q. Getting used to this position going into the weekend? 
 DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, it's where I want to be more often. You know, luckily it's a really big event this week, so it will be nice to finally get a win under the belt. But we are just going to try and find what we did on Thursday and see if we can do that for the next two days.

 Q. When you are actually playing, does it dawn on you how big of an event it is? 
 DANNY WILLETT: You have to put that to the back of your mind. Each event on Tour, you look at all of the great players there. Granted, the World Ranking points are a bit better this week, you have a few of the world's top players in there, but it's nice to look at a leaderboard and see your names up there with the names there are up there. So you just have to take it as it comes and see what you can do. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT