BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 26, 2009
Danny Willett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Five birdies one dropped shot; you must be delighted. 
 DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, played really good again today. Missed a few chances out there, but finished stronger, birdied the last two, good day. 

 Q. And a birdie on the last, as well, tremendous second shot, were you surprised to see it fly the green? 
 DANNY WILLETT: I was, yeah. We weren't sure. We knew the wind was switching a bit. We were not sure what it was doing. We had 255, 260 flag, and I didn't think I could fly it, but it's flown just over the back edge and just trickled down. But it's not a bad position. Plenty of room to work with, so easy up-and-down, yeah. 

 Q. Excellent conditions; how has the course dried out since yes?
 DANNY WILLETT: The course is in great shape. I mean, there was lots of water on the front side yesterday, and today the front nine, yeah, there's still patches but it's pretty good. Again, you know, for the few days that we had, Monday through Wednesday, to be in the shape it's in now, it's brilliant.

 Q. Ideally placed for the weekend going into Saturday and Sunday?
 DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, there are a few guys who will press on a bit and I'll be a few behind. But I haven't been in this position for a while, so it's going to be good fun on the weekend. 

 Q. You had a great finish in Wales. Do you feel you're striking the ball as well as you struck it here this week?
 DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, I feel I'm swinging it -- it was nearly there in Wales. I had a couple of good days and iffy days. It's better than it was then, so we need to keep the head on and see what it can do.

 Q. The result like that must have given you a nice timely boost coming into a big stretch, Wales. 
 DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, hopefully a big stretch, anyway. It might be it week and that's it. 

 Q. You're not in next week? 
 DANNY WILLETT: I think I've gone down to 12th reserve. 

 Q. Top-10 finish gets you in. 
 DANNY WILLETT: We'll see.

 Q. Best of the birdies? 
 DANNY WILLETT: 8. 8, a good birdie today: 220 flag, little 4-iron in there to about six, seven feet just short. 

 Q. Surprised to see Goosen --
 DANNY WILLETT: I got in, I didn't watch any of the golf yesterday. I saw it on the Internet. When I left he was at 5 and obviously Finchy was at 6, and I thought he would overtake Finchy and get up there. 
 Surprised to see him at 8. I thought he might be 7 and today -- he had a good weekend at the U.S. Open, didn't he, which has obviously given him a bit of a boost and he's pressing on.

 Q. What do you do now?
 DANNY WILLETT: Lunch. Lunch, go and do a bit of practice and then go back and go to the gym.

 Q. Weight training? 
 DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, I need to hit it further. Then I can hit rescue into the last and not 3-wood. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT