THE CELTIC MANOR WALES OPEN
June 7, 2009
Danny Willett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Tell us about that, from the 7th onwards, everything kicked off.   
 DANNY WILLETT: Didn't hit it overly terrible the first kind of five, six holes but just a couple of bad errors from me. Three bogeys in a row; silly couple of putts missed.   
 And then, you know, got my head down in it close the next couple and missed them, and then kept hitting close and rolled a few in.  
  
  Q. I think it was fair to say that the 2s did you a lot of good, didn't it?   
 DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, I played the par 3s great. I think I'm 7-under for the par 3s. They are strong par 3s but my iron play has been really good. The trouble I had earlier on in the week making a lot of bogeys is I'm not in the fairway; I'm in the rough and you can't control them as good. On the tee I've been all right this week; the par 3s have been good to me.  
  
  Q. How have you felt about the week in general, 6-under probably will come up a bit shy.   
 DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, but if I can get another Top-5 finish, a long way onto keeping my card, then you know, this early on in the year, there's a big bonus for me.  
  
  Q. What's the plan now, are you involved tomorrow?  
 DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, I'm going to Sunningdale tomorrow, going to travel down there tonight and try to head down for that and see if we can qualify for the Open.  
  
  Q. How would you describe the season so far? What would your analysis be?   
 DANNY WILLETT: It's been up-and-down. I feel like I've played good at times, and then I've had really bad weeks. I've had a Top-5 and two other Top-10s, so I've put this one in there as well. Hopefully this is another Top-5.   
 If you look at the top results, it's been really good. But I think just for myself, my own goals, it's been just a little inconsistent and I'm working at it.   
  
  Q. Going out in the final round, there was never much daylight between the leader and you feel like you could do yourself a lot of good?  
 DANNY WILLETT: If I could press early, you can get up there and put a few birdies, you can put a bit of pressure. But obviously I went in the completely opposite direction. I went to 1-over after five which is never good.  
 But I just thought, there's a lot of money up for grabs and obviously winning is great, but every shot for me is a few extra quid in the bank and for my card the first year, that's the main goal.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT