U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2019
Danny Willett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Usually means something good happens when you get to come out here and stand here.  6 birdies out there today.  The finish is the one that you have to be happy with?  
DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, we played good.  A lot of good golf shots.  A couple of scrappy ones in there but a couple of nice saves.  Started quick, which you have to do on this golf course.  I think anybody who has shot really good score this week has been 2-, 3-, 4-under par early days, and then you kind of hold on for the middle four or five holes.  And obviously the two par-5s down the back to give you a couple of chances.  14 playing straight into today, so not the easiest.  You've still got to hit two great shots in there.  And the last, again, is fully dependent on the tee shot.  If you're in the fairway you're going to have a good look of regardless of how far back you are.  2-iron, at least off the tee.  So, yeah, a real solid day.   
 Q.  You picked a pretty nice venue to go out and shoot your best U.S. Open round in your illustrious career.  Talk about the experience?  
DANNY WILLETT: You look at the golf course, you know, the golf course is in great condition.  It doesn't really showcase that you've got to be long, you've got to be short, you've just got to play good golf.  I think the U.S. Opens over the last few years have been primarily bomber's paradises.  This place, yes, the longer you are the shorter club you have off the tee.  Years gone by if you can hit it 350, you're in a much better position.  I think this golf course just kind of evens out the field in that way.  You play good golf, there's a good score out there.  You hit it off line with this rough, like we did on 10 and 11, bogey is pretty easy to come by.  Doesn't really favor anybody in particular.  At the end of this week you're going to get the best golfer winning, which is the way it should be.   
 Q.  And you know what you're capable of in major championships.  Going into Sunday, final round at the Pebble Beach U.S. Open within grasp of the lead, I mean, talk about your mindset going into tomorrow?  
DANNY WILLETT: You never know.  The guys who just teed off, there's four hours left of golf to play.  Somebody could go out and have a nice round and you're going to be ten back.  We put ourselves in that position regardless of what the leaders do.  We're going to be in nice position to go out there tomorrow and have a decent finish regardless of what the guys at the top do.  So try to keep doing the same.   
 Q.  Regardless of the setup for tomorrow, whatever it may be, what is your approach?  What is your mindset in this final round?  
DANNY WILLETT: Just keep making good moves.  You make good moves, you make good swings, you make good decisions and it happens.  You don't always execute it, but if you give yourself the best chance by doing the right things that's all you can ask for.  So far we've done that pretty well.  Looks quite nice right now, but in two hours' time it could be a good ways back and you drop out of the top-10 or whatever.  So we'll just have to see.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT