DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 16, 2018
Danny Willett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Great way to bounce back, four birdies in a row to close out the front nine?
DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, pretty slow-ish start, but done well.  You kind of saw the scoring from this morning, you knew the scoring is pretty low, so you knew there was obviously going to be a few chances out there.  Four nice ones in a row to the turn and then a made a silly bogey down 10 and then bounced back nicely again on them last eight holes.
Yeah, a little bit up-and-down in there but all in all another 67 was a really solid day.
Q. Agonisingly close to an eagle on the last, went sailing by; sort of look at your face, and you go, I think it goes one way and it goes the other.  Is that what these greens can do to you?
DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, obviously later in the day, you can get a little bit of the grain can pucker up.  You're reading it as good as you can but there's still obviously lot of variables in there with putting.  You try to set it up for a decent roll and hope it has a chance.  Yeah, six-foot short.  Would have been nice to close it out for the guys in there, but yeah, still only Friday.
Q. When you know the scoring out there is so low, does that put more pressure on because you know you have to score low to stay in contention?
DANNY WILLETT: Yes and no.  Similar to Turkey a couple of weeks ago.  You know, the scoring is low so, you know there's obviously runs on the golf course.  You look at the flags and a couple of them might look a bit sneaky but there's obviously runs where guys are making it, and obviously the tee box up on 18 and a couple of the par 5s playing downwind today definitely helps that scoring.
I think you have just got to kind of take it as it comes and like I say, as long as you don't do anything too silly, when you do get on your runs, you're hoping that they are going to put you up there into some good positions.
Q. One shot off the lead going into the weekend.  How excited are you about challenging for this trophy, the final event of the season?
DANNY WILLETT: It's nice.  I've said it all year, really, since everything has been good.  It's nice to be back seeing the lads.  It's nice to be back in contention, playing good golf and moving well and actually enjoying the game that you took up many years ago because you loved it.  Yeah, really in a nice place.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT