TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 1, 2018
Danny Willett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 4-under par, what's your verdict on that one?
DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, pretty solid.  A couple of sneaky flags out there.  Just as perfect of golf conditions as you could ask for.  It's beautiful down here.  So yeah, you can see the scoring is pretty low, but relatively pleased.  Kind of just took off where we left the last round, which is nice.
Q. How strategic is this golf course?
DANNY WILLETT: I think you'll see guys play it really differently.  You'll see guys take driver and try to get it as close as possible to the greens.  Especially how guys are reading it these days because of the heat, a few of the bunkers aren't really in play for the longer hitters.  It's not as strategic as I think some weeks are, but you still have to hit it well.
Q. Some encouraging signs this year.  You've had some good results and you've talked about your game coming back.  Do you ever sit down with your team at the end of the year and analyse the stats and look at where you improve next time?
DANNY WILLETT: We do that on a week-to-week, month-by-month basis really.  Round by round I do my own stats and you have a look at where you've gained and where you've lost and if there are any trends going.
Everything's been really positive.  The putter's struggled the last three or four months.  Missed a lot of short ones, the last couple of months, especially.  That's an area where we are looking into now and you can make a hell of a lot of gains inside eight, ten feet if you're holing it well.
The long game and the body are in a really good place which is nice.  The end of the season is always a tricky one.  Guys pick up injuries.  You've played 20-odd times around the world travelling and we are actually body-wise better than what we have ever been, which is nice and the golf is coming on well.  All promising signs, really, to try and kick on.
Q. 4-under today, a bit of wind and didn't seem to affect the field and there's a lot of low scores.  Could you still be aggressive today?
DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, the tricky one was because there's not much, maybe only five yards at times, but it kind of bounces off a few of the trees and mixes around here.  That's the tricky one is, yeah, five yards of it's constant, pretty simple.  But when it's flicking around, you can have an eight-yard, nine-yard difference if you get your angle a little bit wrong.
But the golf course is there for the taking.  There's going to be a lot of good scores.  The greens are rolling nice.  They tried to tuck a few pins, but you get the ball in the fairway and you give yourself some wedges into these holes, you can attack them.  I think it's going to be the trend if the weather stays like this, like they said it's forecast to.  The trend will be low scoring.
Q. What was the key to your round today?
DANNY WILLETT: Just hit a lot of nice golf shots.  Didn't do anything sparkling.  Didn't do anything too terrible.  A lot of good stuff in there.  Every time we didn't hit it too close, we rolled it up there.  We had one silly 3-putt but pace putting was pretty good.  Holed a couple of 6- , 8-footers for birdies.  Like I said, nothing sparkling, but it was a really good, solid and well-put-together round.
Q. You're 64th on The Race to Dubai right now.  Is Dubai in the back of your mind at all or do you just go out and play?
DANNY WILLETT: No, you know, it's one of them where it would be lovely, you know, with all the struggles that we've had for the last couple years and stuff and we've pulled out of a hell of a lot of events last year and the beginning of this year.
I'm just really happy where the body and where the game is.  And if we don't play Dubai, we have got an option to go play RSM in America.  We have got options to go play.  We're more just trying to keep the game in good shape and keep moving forward, and if there's a week that we can play golf, we'll try to.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT