THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 13, 2020
Danny Willett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Give us a timeline for when you found out and your thoughts on everything?
DANNY WILLETT: Just last night, we were just about to go to bed. Actually, just finished getting everything sorted for today, and we had got the text from the TOUR. Obviously we turned to Golf Channel to see if there's anything -- any other news. Yeah, it's a real shame, but it's for the safety of everyone. Like I said, yesterday, listening to what the commissioner was saying, I think he's handling it brilliantly. I think he's handling a really terrible situation really well. We'll just kind of play it by ear and see what happens.
Q. Is it kind of weird not to know when you're going to play next?
DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, it is a little bit. Yeah, it's obviously a break that nobody really wants, but it's for the safety of everyone involved. For this TOUR to keep running, you need the players, you need the staff, you need everyone involved to be fit and healthy. I think the best thing to do is, yeah, kind of weather out the storm and hope that it passes over relatively quickly, and yeah, we can all get back to our day job.
Q. Is there any part of how these decisions were made and communicated over the last 24, 48 hours that surprised you?
DANNY WILLETT: No. No, I think everything has been -- I think pretty much as soon as Jay had kind of chatted to the team and they made decisions about it, they got it out pretty quickly. We were the same, we were watching the basketball on Wednesday night, and we heard that they had suspended the NBA season. And then pretty shortly after that you got a text telling you what was happening, that we were going to play. But we kind of monitored the situation and it's been really good like that. It's one of those things that because of how volatile the situation is, you've kind of got to expect it to be at the last minute or a bit of an upscale time. Yeah, going to go home, make sure everyone is fit and well at home. And yeah, fingers crossed we can all get through it and it can pass over quickly.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT