UBS HONG KONG OPEN
December 11, 2016
Danny Willett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Your verdict on what was a pretty exciting final round?  
DANNY WILLETT: We played good. Played nice and steady.  Gave ourselves a few chances all day.  We were a bit shocked when we came upon to 16 and saw what the scores had done.  We know it's playing tricky out there -- we've just been out there, but the amount of guys that are kind of 9, 10 and I think one just got to 11.  But it was a good day.  We did kind of what we had to do and shot 4- or 5-under par and see what happens.   
Again, it's a tricky golf course and the wind is swirling a little bit.  We had a few little switches in there that made it a little tricky which cost us a couple.  But yeah, it was a good day's work and just have to wait and see.  I think we'll be doing well to finish fourth or fifth or something.  It be would nice if we could start the season off with a top five, would be really good.  But I can't see it winning.   
 Q.  Despite the shock, I take it there was a sense of development; the momentum was with you.  You must have known you were close?  
DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, when we 2-putted 13 for birdie and got to 10 and saw the scores, and like I said, by that time, the guys hadn't quite dropped a couple that we saw.  Hit it all right down the last few.  You know, just hit it off the fairway on 16 and 17, and obviously that was not a great tee shot on the last.   
So yeah, it was just a shame how it finished.  It was good fun to finish the season off hitting that shot on 18, that second shot there, and making par.   
First one of the season for 2017, last one of the year, so it's ready for feet up, and like I said, I don't think it's going to be good enough.  But it's a nice way to start the 2017 season.   
We'll be back in Abu Dhabi.  Four weeks off now, so yeah, get the feet up for a couple weeks, enjoy Christmas home with the family and maybe pick the clubs up sometime in January.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT