ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 6, 2016
Danny Willett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How was everything out there for you? Nice to be back on U.K. soil and come back to an event you like to play?  
DANNY WILLETT: It was good fun.  Obviously the journey here was a laugh and the draw, we've got the rotation, having Chubby and Westy and the lads, nice to come out and have a good time with the guys.  We had a pretty good day around and looking forward to the next few days.   
 Q.  How is it out there on the course with your caddie?  A bit different; who is giving tips this week?  
DANNY WILLETT: No, we are both doing his own thing and he's trying to stay out of the way.  It's been great fun today.   
 Q.  One of the tougher courses today, but then tomorrow, they say it's going to be easier.  What do you expect for the next couple of days out there?  
DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, I really don't know.  Carnoustie is always the toughest regardless but there's been some great scores today.  I think Noren was 8-under -- there have been some fantastic scores.  Me and Westy found it tough to shoot one of them scores today but as a team, me and Johnny did very well so hopefully we can keep that going and play well all week.   
Johan was good enough to let me and Johnny come and play.  It was a long journey back for the guys playing Ryder Cup.  It's going to be a long, tiring week.  Fortunately we get to come out and play a tournament with our pals, and we had a good laugh today.  Hopefully we'll continue to play pretty good.  It was good fun out there.   
 Q.  Is there a sense of almost having to fall in love with the game again after last week, or does nothing last week really affect that?  
DANNY WILLETT: No, it's one of them you just get back to trying to play some good golf and you play good golf, you enjoy it more automatically, don't you.  There's still some stuff that we are trying to work on, but I think it helps, like I say, going to golf courses that you know pretty well and playing with friends.  Obviously not just me and Johnny but we played with Chubby and Westy and tomorrow we're playing with Peter Dawson and Saturday we're playing with Fitzy.  You can't really ask for a better rotation than that, playing with your pals, and obviously Johnny not on the bag but playing with him is good fun, as well.   
 Q.  Different atmosphere and environment.  Is it quite nice being out there on your own?  
DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, it's been great.  We've had a nice little following all day.  Even though it's been freezing cold and pumping sideways, the fans have still come out and watched all the way around, which has been lovely.  Obviously a lot of the family up here again this week, which is nice.  Yeah, get back and rest up and hopefully it stays like this for the next three days and we can have a good time.   
 Q.  You've spoken a lot about The Ryder Cup, but how do you reflect on last week?  What sticks in your mind?  Are you able to think positively of the week as a whole or the things that happened out there --  
DANNY WILLETT: I think you look at the team atmosphere and the team environment was fantastic.  Clarkey did a great job and unfortunately the golf wasn't -- my golf wasn't up to standard.  The American Team played very, very good.  They holed the putts when they had to hole the putts and unfortunately The European Team didn't but the week as a whole, and how the guys bonded and the friendships you make and how you do after are all great.  Excited to come back now and get back into tournament golf and we've got a busy season, only one week off in the next eight weeks so nice to kick start it here.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT