THE 145TH OPEN
July 16, 2016
Danny Willett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Danny, talk about the back nine today compared to the rest of the week.
DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, yeah, still struggling with the swing and stuff.  But, yeah, positive-ish, yeah, we're still there and we're going to play tomorrow and see if we can work something out again.  But, yeah, there's not really anything fantastically well going on.
Q. What's happening with the swing now?
DANNY WILLETT: We've been working hard and stuff.  There's a lot of range work and it's different taking it to the golf course, obviously with the conditions being as extreme as they are.  It's not always perfect golf shots.  It's just picking the right one that's going to get it in play.  And just again, it was a little too much side spin, which is obviously making it fluctuate a little bit too much in the breeze.
But, yeah, the only problem is you can't really do much on the range.  It's straight downwind, so you can't actually see whether it's good or bad.  It doesn't do anything.  So there's not really anything you can quite do enough of.  So we'll see.
Q. Frustrating?
DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, it's just been a frustrating week.  Like I said, it's been grand start to finish.  Had a reasonable week last week practising and obviously felt sick a few days, not been able to do anything, back in bed.  All the training and work that you do before that kind of gets thrown out because then you come back in your week.
Yeah, just a frustrating few weeks.  A bit of practise this afternoon, and then obviously a week off, practicing and training and then back to the U.S. PGA.
Q. (Inaudible).
DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, we just had sickness last week.  Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, we were kind of not really able to do a great deal.  So Nic was looking after me, bless her.  Was looking after the little one.
Q. (Inaudible).
DANNY WILLETT: No, it was a tough one.
Q. (Inaudible).
DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, I mean, we chat quite frequently about various things and stuff, who we like to play with, who we like to do this, that and the other with, so it's interesting.  The team's shaping up.  I think he's very happy looking at the leaderboard.  He's got Martin up there playing well again and Frankie's up there playing well.  Obviously Lee has continued to show this he's playing nice and steady.  I think that to go with obviously the rookies that are on the team that are playing pretty good golf, yeah, it could be interesting.
Q. (Inaudible) going on between all of you?
DANNY WILLETT: I think a few months ago it was looking like there were going to be a lot of, lot of rookies in it, but now a few of the more experienced guys are playing well and pull rank and come through, and I think that's what it needs.  So it's starting to look really good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT