THE 145TH OPEN
July 15, 2016
Danny Willett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Danny, it couldn't have been closer to make the cut?  
DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, another day battling away with everything.  Yeah, it was good.  I missed a couple of cuts by one, and so it was nice to not do it again.   
 Q.  Danny, those conditions is that as tough as you've played in?  
DANNY WILLETT: Me and John were saying County Down I think a couple ago was pretty similar, you know.  Just because it's so gusty.  It's so penal out there.  And we almost played every hole into the wind today because you've got the wind switched around the turn.  And we played the front nine on the round and the back nine out the left.   
It was a tough day, and anybody on our side of the draw that was under par has played some great golf.  Obviously Rickie and Jason ground it out, like myself, gave themselves a few more chances and took a couple.  But, yeah, I think you can ask anyone.  They were very tough conditions that they've played in.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, obviously when you get water caught between the golf ball and the driver, you can get water caught trapped in the face.  It can do anything.  It's like a flier at times.  It's almost easier, if you wanted to, to hit an iron off the tee, and then obviously you're going to leave yourselves miles in, but you'll probably have a bit more control.   
Yeah, it was just tricky.  Like I said, whenever your umbrella's horizontal trying to keep the rain off you, it's always going to be a tricky one.   
 Q.  Out tonight, Danny?  
DANNY WILLETT: We're just going to go back, chill out, watch the last little bit, have some food, and probably get to bed for tomorrow for an early tee time tomorrow.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, usually at an Open, again, with the draw, it's been tough.  But usually at an Open when you make the cut, a good week, you can push up there.  Unfortunately, 14 behind, you're going to need a good draw on the weekend.  To go out early tomorrow hopefully with not much wind and try to post your score and move yourself up there.  Again, I don't know the forecast.  But it's nice to be, well, it's not finished yet, but it's nice to potentially be playing tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT