THE 145TH OPEN
July 14, 2016
Danny Willett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, I think I missed one fairway and the line came out sideways because the line was that bad.  From there hit a couple par iron shots, but nothing too alarming, just struggled on the green.   
 Q.  What is the overall feeling?  
DANNY WILLETT: Just frustrating.  Could have been a really good day.  And ended up just being average when the scoring conditions are as good as you can really ask for out here.  It would have been nice to post a decent number, so I'm just going to have to wait, go do some practise and see where it finishes at the end of the day.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, yeah, I mean, yeah, it's neither here nor there.  It's only Thursday, but it's always nice to get off to a good start in these tournaments.  Just you know what the weather's going to do tomorrow, so it's anyone's game.  It depends on the draw and how that kind of figures out.  It would be nice to be a couple shots closer.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
DANNY WILLETT: No, it was good.  Just teeing off in The Open regardless of what you've done is fantastic.  It's always great up here.  Around a golf course like this, you've got a pretty good atmosphere on the fields where you've got holes running next to each other and a lot of people out there watching and supporting.  The crowds at The Open are always brilliant regardless what you're doing.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
DANNY WILLETT: It's been good.  It's always nice.  You're not trying to prove anything to anyone.  Whether or not you're worried about that or not, it's one of them things.  You know what you're capable of.  I know what I was capable of before.  It's one of them things that we stick a couple of those on that as well.   
It's nice to be back playing in The Open, playing in front of your home crowd.   
 Q.  Was it the greens that were the issue?  
DANNY WILLETT: I don't know.  We're going to go and analyse it, go through the numbers and see.  Do a bit of work.   
 Q.  Was the putter a problem?  
DANNY WILLETT: From 12 feet is always a good one.  Yeah, just one of them, you know, yeah.  Well, the last you hit it -- the guys you've seen the guys that have gone before you and it's gone two different ways.  Your right edge and it moves hooking a bit left whereas Rickie's was trying to come back, and obviously Jason's fell off that thing as well.   
So, yeah, just a bit of work to do and see if we can do better tomorrow.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
DANNY WILLETT: No, I've been working for a long time on the greens.  It's tough when they're this slow to get a good mixture between hitting them, rolling them, and then obviously your line differs depending on the pace, this and that and the other.  I always find it tricky when the greens are so slow to get it rolling on line, because you pick a nice line, what you think is a nice line, obviously when you're hitting it so firm through the grass and it takes a skip or a bounce and obviously it's not great when it's in the air.  So it's a big difference to quick greens.   
 Q.  Are you expecting more wind (inaudible)?  
DANNY WILLETT: I think it could have been quicker, to be honest.  You look at Muirfield and Mickelson when they got up to in the afternoon and it was windy and it was firm.  I appreciate they don't let them go too much, but with these greens they're not massively slow.  So yeah, I think they could get them a bit quicker and I don't think it would do anyone any harm.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT