MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2016
Danny Willett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DANNY WILLETT: It was a tricky day. When it's gusting like this at times it felt like it was gusting up to 30, 35 on a few tee shots. 62, 65 is actually is good around this place.  
Yeah, tough day and level par after two days, I can't be more than seven back, six back, depends obviously if he has a great back nine. I think we'll see the scores bunch up around level par.  
So now I came into the week being below average, I guess, obviously only playing nine and nine. I'd have taken this position in a minute. I would have definitely taken that to start the week.  
It's just a shame today, but I think when you walk through the people out there you kind of start to realize that it's not just you making bad swings and making silly mistakes.   
   
 Q. (Inaudible.)  
DANNY WILLETT: No, there's a lot of good players out there, you know. I think it will stay somewhere in and around‑‑ yeah, catch quite a bit more sleep and hopefully we can kind of get it going again.  
   
 Q. The Europeans have been held in there pretty good today on the board?  
DANNY WILLETT: You look at the conditions, it's not really American conditions, you know. You need the ball flight control. And the greens, a lot of them are obviously raised up, which is very tricky to putt. Holing out on 4, 5, 6 holes, they've already got a ball rolling off a break on greens that are probably at 12 or 13, and you tuck a bit of wind in there, and it's just one of them that you hope you're hitting it the right time and you don't get a gust that can knock it off line, that's how windy it can get on a few of them.  
The golf course is only going to get firmer and faster. It's going to be trickier this afternoon.   
   
 Q. Things bunch up with the European.   
DANNY WILLETT: You know, I think he got himself back to 3 with a couple to play. And you look at the board now, I can only see three American.  
   
 Q. Guys were talking a number of years ago about how they push themselves along, like Ernie and Faldo. Could you see that situation emerging again?  
DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, definitely. I think obviously they're it's all about them a little more separate, I guess. And nowadays if you're in the top 50 in the world it becomes more of a world Tour. We play‑‑ you get all the best players playing in the major championships and you pick and choose the best of them from both sides of the Pond.  
Yeah, I think you'll see a lot of guys doing that, including Europe, not just European pushing Europeans, but Americans and Europeans. I said it in an interview yesterday, golf is in a really good frame for the next 10 or 15 years. I think you're going to see some fantastic stuff happen. Yeah, it's all okay.   
   
 Q. Jordan is leading the field a little bit.  
DANNY WILLETT: It was nice to see he made a double, that he's human. Again, that green is brutal. I talked to Sergio, and I think this is his 18th time here and he's never seen it like that. So that's a new one they're trying to catch out a few people. I had a shot that came back down the ridge and got back out with a break. So you can see it, there's a few areas that you get on the wrong side of it. 10, 17, all of a sudden you've got short range putts that are going to move the cup on.   
It's just the golf course. It's tough enough at the best of times, but they try to make it a little trickier, and you put 20 to 30 mile an hour winds in there and it's brutal. And you've just got to stand there and commit to golf shots and hope that you don't get too many bad gusts on the wrong holes.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT