WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 3, 2016
Danny Willett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Give us your thoughts on the round?
DANNY WILLETT: Was a good, solid day, 16 greens, 30 putts, you know, you can't really ask for much more around this golf course.
Q. Are you building on the momentum that you've had in recent weeks coming into this?
DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, obviously started the season pretty good, fourth down in Sun City and obviously winning in Dubai.  It's only my fifth tournament of the year for us so still early days, so yeah, nice to get a few good numbers on the board.
Q. Can you be more aggressive this year after coming and seeing it for the first time last year?
DANNY WILLETT: No, it's one of them places, fortunately the golf course doesn't -- you don't change venue every year.  So you get to see it, and I think the more you play it, the more you get used to it.
You realize that there's some really tough holes out here, but there's a few also that you can score on that you weren't quite sure about the first time you come here.
It's a little bit softer out there, as well, which helps, obviously being able to control the ball into the greens.  I think you'll see generally scoring slightly better this year, obviously a little more bunched as well.
Q. Are you looking forward to Ryder Cup?
DANNY WILLETT: We're not in it yet but no, it would be great in September if we could be on the plane with Clarkey, yeah.
Q. You did so well last year with nearly winning The Race to Dubai, it would be hard to understand if you weren't on the team --
DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, you never know.  Stranger things have happened.  We've put ourselves in a position to have a good chance of getting in it, so, yeah, again, day by day, do the right things and hopefully, yeah, we'll be there.
Q. Have you always used a cross-handed grip and when did you make the transition?
DANNY WILLETT: It was about two years ago.  Started working with Paul Hurrion back in England, and I always used to struggle with getting my shoulders squared up.  They were always open.  Just generally we did a lot of testing based on facts and science of which grip was best.
Went down there for a lot of time a couple years ago and we took all sorts of putters, all sorts of grips, everything you can think of and found a scientifically-based way that gave us the best chance of doing the work and then from there, obviously you're building everything else around it.
It's been a couple of years now where it's been probably one of the biggest changes.  It's really solid and it's given us a chance to shoot some good scores.
Q. How long did it take to feel comfortable?
DANNY WILLETT: I west left-hand-low, felt pretty good straightaway.  I was never that great right-hand-low, so it was kind of one where, it wasn't a last resort, but it was definitely, for some reason, I picked up left-hand-low and it felt more comfortable than right-hand-low and then was able to kind of go and do all the basics around it and get the stance more solid.  Yeah, it's been a lot better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT