OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 5, 2016
Danny Willett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  65 today out there, how does that sound to you?  
DANNY WILLETT: It was good.  Played some really good golf, a lot of good solid shots in the fairway, gave ourselves a lot of good numbers and didn't really give ourselves too much stress out there, which is key.   
 Q.  A bit of luck yesterday on the 13th, hitting the rocks; do you know it's your week when something like that happens?  
DANNY WILLETT: Good things are going to happen for you to compete.  You can't just play great golf all the time.  You need a little of luck, and yesterday, that was a nice one.   
 Q.  How important is it for you coming off a great year of last year, to emulate the feats of last year?  
DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, obviously a different year.  This game can be a bit crazy.  Can be playing great one week and terrible the next.  That's just how it happens.   
But yeah, it's nice to follow up a good finish last year obviously, start of the year well at Sun City and nice to kind of get back into it now I guess.  This is only my third event, so trying to get on a bit of a run now and then take a bit of time off obviously when the little one comes.   
 Q.  What is in the mind of Danny Willett; how important is it for Danny Willett and the family to be in that Ryder Cup?  
DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, it would be brilliant.  But that's in September.  There's a lot of golf to play before then, a lot of things that I would like to do outside of that before that comes around.  If I can keep doing the things that I'm working on trying to do, then hopefully I'll be there.   
 Q.  What's your take on a 65 around there in perfect conditions?  
DANNY WILLETT: It's good.  Dubai, Abu Dhabi, they are all the same; with the wind obviously in the afternoon picking up, it's always nice to go out there in the morning.  You have nice, fresh greens and the wind is usually not as strong as it is in the afternoon.  It's nice to go and actually count on that and post a good score.   
 Q.  I take it, it wasn't bad, therefore, on the first day, but it's certainly an awful lot better in terms of scoring today.  
DANNY WILLETT: Yesterday was real breezy at times, a couple of really bad gusts that cost us, a couple of good breaks obviously.  So yeah, it was just nice to get out there today in the better conditions and post a score that you know is out there, but you've still got to go out there and play well.   
 Q.  History now, but such a remarkable stroke of luck; what were your thoughts when suddenly your ball is bouncing out of the water?  
DANNY WILLETT: In fairness it ended up two yards inside the water; I don't know what everyone was moaning about, it was comfortably in.   
Yeah, it was a tricky little golf shot with the wind out of the left, we had a long way back.  I did think it was in the water and we were dropping back and you're probably making six.   
 Q.  When that sort of thing happens, do you think, it could be my week?  
DANNY WILLETT: No, not really.  It was one of them, like I said, I was a bit frustrated at happened early on in the round.  We had a couple of bad gusts that cost us a couple shots.  It was one of those where you go, usually it comes around.  But yeah, in the same round for it to kind of bounce back for you nicely is good.   
 Q.  You enjoyed EurAsia Cup, didn't see an awful lot of you in Abu Dhabi, but have you benefitted that week in between?  
DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, definitely.  A big part of my year is my weeks off and trying to get the back and the fitness levels good.  Obviously spending time at home, making sure you get some good quality time at home and when I'm at home, making sure I get a lot of quality work on my golf, so I can come out relatively short week, obviously Monday through Sunday, instead of some guys, this is their fourth week in a row.  Just come out here, treat it as a job, I guess like it is; come out here, get your work done and go home.   
 Q.  You mentioned your back.  We haven't spoken about your back in ages, which is a very good thing.  How is it now?  
DANNY WILLETT: Yeah, it is.  A couple of twinges in EurAsia Cup and Abu Dhabi.  I think when you're at home and practicing, you're not quite swinging at full pace.  You get out in a bit of heat and you feel you're all right, and step on a couple and you make a bit of bad move and it just twinged a little bit.  Again, doing a bit of work on that every day and it's getting better.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT