AUGUSTA NATIONAL WOMEN'S AMATEUR
April 3, 2021
Rose Zhang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Q. Talk about the adventure on 13.
 ROSE ZHANG:   Oh I duck-hooked a drive and hit the tree once and when it came down no one saw it.  So even though from what I saw it was in the hazard, we weren't able to identify any golf ball there.  So they played it as a lost ball, so I had to go back to the tee and that was my third shot.
 After that, I hit a drive off the right side of the fairway, and I had 202 into the green but I really wanted to just go for it.  I decided to go for it and didn't turn out well.  I landed in the hazard and it was in the grass area of the hazard but I couldn't make a swing out of it because it would hit the rocks in front of me.
 So I got a drop from there and hit my next shot and then I 2-putted from there.
 I had 202 to the front and then it was 230, 225 to the pin, I believe.
 Q. Which club was that?
 ROSE ZHANG:   My 3-wood.
 Q. A lot to unpack there.
 ROSE ZHANG:   Yes, it was quite eventful.  And it was the first eventful hole I had in a while, so it was not a pretty hole.
 Q. Did you see the ball hit the tree and drop?
 ROSE ZHANG:   I did see it drop.  I just don't know where it went.  There was a white speck that I saw drop into the hazard but no one identified it, even television, so they deemed it as I lost ball.
 Q. No spotter over there?
 ROSE ZHANG:   There wasn't.  They just played it as a lost ball.
 Q. How long did you debate?
 ROSE ZHANG:   I debated for a little bit.  I decided, well, after this shot if I'm really lucky, then I can hit it on with my fourth shot.  It didn't turn out well in the end.  I definitely do think that there was some wrong course management in that area.  Hopefully next time I'll learn to improve on it.
 Q. What did you tell yourself as far as bouncing back and being in the thick of it?
 ROSE ZHANG:   For me, it's just forgetting the hole that I tripled on and just being able to hit the next shot and stay composed throughout round.  There was a lot of golf left and anything can happen.  So it's just staying composed and not really thinking too much.  It's just staying in the moment.
 Q. Did you give yourself a pep talk?
 ROSE ZHANG:   I don't.  I think what I do is just take a couple deep breaths and I also know how my swing is swinging, so as long as I stay true to it, it should go from it.
 Q. What's your biggest takeaway from today?
 ROSE ZHANG:   I think my biggest takeaway is just being able to stay in the mix and really allow myself to enjoy every moment out on this golf course.  I mean, everyone playing was in contention basically, and to handle the pressure of just being on television and just playing at Augusta National, I think says a lot.  I think in general, I just have a lot to work on and I think that if I keep in my stride I'm still able to improve even more.
 Q. How much did you pay attention to the leaderboard?  It got pretty crazy down the stretch?
 ROSE ZHANG:   Yeah, I actually didn't really pay attention to it.  I probably saw it like once, like it was a glimpse, but I didn't even really look at it.  I just played my own game.
 Q. Did you know what was going on coming up 18?
 ROSE ZHANG:   A little bit.  I think, yeah, I did know that I had a putt to make it in the playoff but I didn't really think much of it.
 Q. The leaderboards are pretty big.
 ROSE ZHANG:   Yes, the leaderboards are big.  I just zoned out those leaderboards.  I did see it this time.  It doesn't really make a difference whether or not I look at it but for me, it's just being able to realize what I'm doing and just staying in the moment instead of looking at the leaderboard all day is really what I do.
 Q. You said you've got a lot to learn?
 ROSE ZHANG:   Yes, I do have a lot to learn.  I think for this event, I could have played a lot better.  There were a lot of small things that I really want to work on when I get back, so hopefully I'll just be able to take some notes and then come back even stronger.
 Q. What kind of things?
 ROSE ZHANG:   Just small things like set up and just being able to manage myself with course management and club selection.  Also green reading was quite difficult today.  I misread a couple putts, so if I can work on those, I think I'll be able to play better.
 Q. You walked up here smiling.  Where does your great perspective come from?
 ROSE ZHANG:   It's just I think sometimes you can't really be too hard on yourself, especially when you are on the greatest stage of amateur golf.  This is Augusta National.  I think it would be -- I think it's our responsibility to just be excited and happy to be on this golf course and to be able to be in contention.
 I don't really want to take any bad memories away from here.  I don't think that's what anyone wants, so it's just being yourself.
 Q. Did you say you can't remember your last triple?
 ROSE ZHANG:   It was -- I can't, honestly.  Maybe it was beginning of this year.  But honestly, it was not fun.  It was not fun to have another triple.
 Q. You've played in a lot of big tournaments in your young career so far.  How were the nerves compared to others?
 ROSE ZHANG:   Yes, it was definitely a little more nerve-wracking, especially at the beginning when you're on the tee and about to tee off.  But I think all in all it was pretty similar to any other event that I played, as long as I don't think too much or I don't overthink, and just stay in the moment.  I guess it's pretty simple.  I don't really think too much on it.
 For me, it's just I have high expectations for myself but I have low expectations for how results turn out.  As long as I accomplish what I need to accomplish, then I think I'm pretty satisfied.
 Q. Is this mission accomplished?
 ROSE ZHANG:   I think overall, it's pretty much mission accomplished but for score-wise I'm not that satisfied.
 Q. Who is with you, family?
 ROSE ZHANG:   My dad is here with me and I have an uncle from San Diego who came to support and my fitness coach, Josh, he was on the bag.
 I think for me, it's just having people support me and just being able to watch every step of the way, it's something that I'm really pleased to have and I'm just thankful for having such supportive people.
 Q. How do you think you'll know when it's time to turn professional?
 ROSE ZHANG:   Well, I think for me, I have a lot of maturing to do.  I just think that college is the place where I'll be able to play even better, shoot better scores and mature as a person and character.
 For now, I don't really have any intention of turning professional.  But when I'm ready, I think I will know it when I'm ready.
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT