U.S. GIRLS' JUNIOR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 25, 2019
Rose Zhang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So I think you had 13 birdies through 27 holes today.
ROSE ZHANG: Uh-huh.
Q. Talk a little bit about how you're feeling and how your play was.
ROSE ZHANG: Today was definitely a lot smoother than the first couple days that I've had.
But overall I just felt really comfortable with my game, and especially my putter today.  That helped me get a lot of birdie opportunities.
Q. Was there one or two putts that stuck out to you?
ROSE ZHANG: Yes.  Today in the morning I didn't expect that I would make so many putts.  But, you know, there wasn't really one putt that stuck out to me.  In the afternoon on No. 12 there was a putt that helped motivate me to keep going, after I sunk a 36-footer.
Q. Yeah, nice.
ROSE ZHANG: So just helped me a lot.
Q. You played some USGA championships before.  Do you think some of your experience from those gives you an edge here?
ROSE ZHANG: For sure, because USGA events, they're very challenging.  On the course you have to be very careful with the course strategy.
So I've had the experience of playing a couple USGA venues, such as the 2019 U.S. Women's Open this year, so, you know, it just helps me stay calm on the course.
Q. Yeah, definitely.  So what are your thoughts with the match tomorrow versus Yuka?  She's the 1 seed.  Seems like you two are two of the hottest players in the tournament, or in the championship right now.  What are your thoughts going into that match?
ROSE ZHANG: Yuka is for sure a great player, and I do not expect any less from her tomorrow.  But, you know, I think match play is a little different, so we'll just see how everything goes tomorrow.  It's either a win or a loss.
I feel really accomplished to get into the quarterfinals, so I'm going to try to play my own game, my own course strategy, and see how it goes.
I know Yuka is most likely going to shoot low.  This course is very well suited for her.  She's a great friend, so I'm looking forward.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT