AUGUSTA NATIONAL WOMEN'S AMATEUR
April 5, 2019
Rose Zhang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Highway was your first round out there?
ROSE ZHANG: It was honestly amazing.  To be able to playa at such a prestigious course is such a blessing.
Q. Were you nervous?
ROSE ZHANG: Pretty nervous off the first tee.  It is such a great venue and, you know, first tee nerves.
Q. Was there a hole out there you really enjoyed seeing or playing for the first time?
ROSE ZHANG: I really enjoyed all the par 3s.  There was just a lot of beautiful flowers around and the scenery was amazing.
Q. What has this tournament been -- have you watched it in the past?  Have you ever been here?  And what ideas did you have about Augusta before you came here?
ROSE ZHANG: Yeah, so when I first started golf, the Masters was one of the first tournaments that I watched on the PGA TOUR, and it just inspired me to, you know, get better and see such a great course and be able to play it was one of my dreams ever since starring.
Q. As such a young player, having the opportunity to play here and potentially to be invited back in future years, how do you hope this grows the game, or just brings the women's game into the spotlight a bit more?
ROSE ZHANG: The women's game, it's truly a game changer for everyone.  We get the opportunity to play at such an amazing course, Augusta National, and before, since women weren't allowed to be members in this amazing course, it was just -- it's a true change in women's golf for women amateurs be able to play and participate in such an event.
Q. What do you hope to take home from this week?
ROSE ZHANG: I'm just extremely blessed and grateful for the opportunity to play at such a high level with all these amateur golfers, and in addition, being at Augusta National is just an experience itself.
I'm just extremely grateful and I'm looking forward to just test my game out there with, you know, everyone, since we're all at the same level, basically, and I feel like we are very blessed to be here.
Q. Have you got your outfit sorted for tomorrow?
ROSE ZHANG: I have not thought about that (laughs).  I will go home and check.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT