AUGUSTA NATIONAL WOMEN'S AMATEUR
March 30, 2021
Rose Zhang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Q. What are your impressions of the course?
 ROSE ZHANG:   I played this course in 2019, so coming back, I've just really loved all the conditions and how the course is playing in general.  So I think the layout is very challenging, and you will be required to play all the shots that you need.
 So it's really nice.
 Q. You're the top-ranked player coming into the week.  What are your expectations?
 ROSE ZHANG:   I usually come into any event with no expectations, and as long as I play my own game and satisfy my own criteria, I think that I would feel more accomplished.  So I think coming into this event, I'm just going to stick to my game plan and see how it goes from there.
 Q. Do you feel that you have an advantage as a returning player?
 ROSE ZHANG:   Yes, I think there is a certain advantage since this course, the more you know it, the better you're able to see what shots you need to hit.  But in general, I think that coming back, it's still just as difficult.  So you're still going to need to hit all the same shots.
 Q. You've been to Augusta National before and driven up Magnolia Lane, but is it still exciting?  Are you looking forward to tonight?
 ROSE ZHANG:   It certainly is so exciting.  Coming back here, it's just so prestigious and there's so much history behind this golf course.  I think anyone coming back here, at least ten times would be just as excited.
 Q. What were your takeaways when you played here in 2019?
 ROSE ZHANG:   In 2019, I think that my takeaway was just being able to play under pressure in front of so many people, especially in 2019 where there were spectators.
 So it's definitely very -- it was definitely an eye-opener for me in 2019.  This year, I'm a little more prepared and played a lot more events with that kind of attention.  So it will be exciting.
 Q. How do you think you're a better player, two years older?
 ROSE ZHANG:   I think just having more course management experience, as well as being able to handle the pressure and executing what I need to do on the course, it's just -- I think I just matured more as a person and as a character.
 Q. Last time we saw you, you were almost winning a Symetra Tour event.  What do you take away from that?
 ROSE ZHANG:   Well, it was my first Symetra event, so that was definitely an experience of its own.  Being able to play in the final couple groups, it shows that I can play against the best and I'm able to test my game more.
 Q. How is the wrist?
 ROSE ZHANG:   The wrist is feeling a lot better.  I pretty much recovered, around 95, 90 percent.  So it's pretty good.
 Q. Is that the first time you played since December?
 ROSE ZHANG:   Yes, the Symetra event was my first one.
 Q. Did it exceed your expectations where you thought your game might be after such a layoff?
 ROSE ZHANG:   It did because I was a little iffy about how I was going to execute on the golf course, especially with taking a small little break and practicing.  Being able to have a little rust come off on that event, it just really helped my game.
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT