U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 7, 2020
Rose Zhang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. We get into the match, nice moment there with some future teammates of yours.  Talk about that.
RHOSE ZHANG:   I feel so honored, just a player and a person like her, she's just someone that everyone wants to be around, and she's an awesome teammate if we get there.  But in general, I'm just so lucky to play with her actually.
Q. Angelina was out here watching, too, and I know you were on her bag for her big win.  Talk about just the support that you had.
RHOSE ZHANG:   I did caddie 54 holes for Angelina, but it was such a great experience for me, too, and seeing her win was absolutely amazing, so watching her come out and support Rachel and I, honestly, I feel like she couldn't pick sides.  But in general I'm grateful to have such amazing teammates.
Q. You were down early in the match.  What kind of changed for you?
RHOSE ZHANG:   Actually, in general, from this morning's match, I already knew that my ball-striking wasn't my A Game.  I just had to stick there mentally.  Just at the turn, I was already 2-down.  I just didn't think about anything.  I just thought about my ball, trying to get whatever is takes to putt the ball in play and try to get some chances.
So I did just that.
Q. Was there a point that you felt like things turned for you?
RHOSE ZHANG:   To be honest, I actually haven't because not being able to fully prepare because of my wrist, I just need to stay focused on every single shot.
Q. How is the wrist and how is it affecting you?
RHOSE ZHANG:   No, I think just more icing needs to be done and more Ibuprofen.
Q. How are you going to prepare for tomorrow?
RHOSE ZHANG:   Just go home -- go back to the hotel, rest a little bit.  I'm very grateful to actually have gotten to this point, and I feel like that my mental game has really shown that I can play even without my A Game, so I'm just going to tomorrow go out there and try my best and take care of my golf ball, and see how everything goes.
Q. Quarterfinals means you're exempt next year.
RHOSE ZHANG:   Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT