ANA INSPIRATION
September 12, 2020
Rose Zhang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. How do you feel about today's round?
 ROSE ZHANG:   Today I'm super satisfied with how I played, starting in the front, I wasn't exactly hitting the ball where I wanted to, so I had to make a lot of clutch par putts, but after the eagle hole-out, which I didn't expect, I started getting a little bit of momentum and overall, I'm just super satisfied with how I played.
 Q. And you made an eagle on hole No. 4, can you talk to us a little bit about that, what were your emotions at that second?
 ROSE ZHANG:   Yeah, the first four holes were kind of slow for me.  I had a slow start and I had to convert a couple par putts.  So on that hole when I was in the fairway, I just wanted a chance at it for birdie, and turns out it holed out.  I had 150 left and I didn't even see it go in.  So it was great.
 Q. What's the messages and the love been like from your family and your friends watching you play this event?
 ROSE ZHANG:   Yeah, it's been great.  In 2018, I played the ANA Inspiration, too, because I won ANA Junior Inspiration.  There were a lot of crowds out there cheering for me this.  Year is obviously different because of COVID but honestly I've been receiving so many messages, so I'm really blessed.
 Q. Just curious but what have you been doing during quarantine because this year has been so different?
 ROSE ZHANG:   In quarantine, I was just trying to practice, improve my game.  I can't really do much.  Just rest up and everything.  But I also spent the time kind of healing a wrist injury but I'm pretty satisfied with everything that's going on.
 Q. And you live two hours away.  How has that been just being so close to home and what is your plan for after this event, like going to go right back home?
 ROSE ZHANG:   Yeah, since I'm still a senior in high school and I'm still taking online classes, so I'm going to have to catch up on a lot of work there and when I go back, just rest a couple days and keep on trying to improve my game.
 Q. What are you going to do tonight to relax and get yourself mentally prepared for tomorrow?
 ROSE ZHANG:   Nothing much.  I guess just, you know, go back, take a shower.  Probably just watch some YouTube, do some homework.
 Q. What do you watch on YouTube?
 ROSE ZHANG:   Just random.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT