BRITISH MASTERS SUPPORTED BY SKY SPORTS
October 13, 2016
Chris Wood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What do you make of 3-under?
CHRIS WOOD: Really pleased.  It's not easy in these conditions.  It's not raining but it's just so cold.  And then the wind picked up a lot as the rain went on.  The ball just doesn't go very far in these conditions.  We're playing on a long golf course in October in England, and it doesn't make for easy scoring.
Q. The last couple of holes the wind was gusting as well, so did you have to back off shots and things like that?
CHRIS WOOD: Yeah, I hit a 5-wood to the last there right down the flag and tried to sort of hit it up in the air to try and get it close to the hole I did, and it stalled a little bit and you're five yards out.  It's tricky.  The golf course played so long.
I would love to see this time of year courses where we -- more birdies for the crowd and things like that.  Because the support from the crowd today was fantastic.  Everybody is doing a great job promoting the British Masters.
We were saying on the way around, it's great to play in front of home crowds.  Not just because they are British but just the numbers out there.  We're obviously in a good group with the host, Luke and Sully and myself, but going around all 18 holes, the fairways are lined and the greens are great.  It's a great atmosphere.
Q. All the nicer to have that atmosphere after coming back from the United States and that atmosphere?
CHRIS WOOD: Yeah, they were a bit more friendly to me, to all of us.  Yeah, it's an advantage obviously when you have home support and everyone knows who you are, I suppose.
But yeah, it would be great to put myself in contention because we know the crowds are going to be great over the weekend.  You know, it's so enjoyable playing in that sort of environment.
Q. A round like this, a nice foundation, I take it, and presumably you're feeling back on the wagon after all the stuff from The Ryder Cup?
CHRIS WOOD: Yeah, last night, hitting balls three hours with Mike last night, struggling to find my form.  Went out this afternoon with pretty low expectations wondering where the ball would go.  But sometimes you go out like that, you go back to basics and things sort of work out.  Hopefully that will continue.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT