EURASIA CUP PRESENTED BY DRB-HICOM
January 14, 2016
Chris Wood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CHRIS WOOD: It's a great start to the year.  I love team golf.  If it was up to me, we'd play a lot more of it.  Probably going back to when I was playing football, I loved the team sort of side of things and getting to know the guys, and obviously this week, Westwood and Poulter are here to help the majority of us and give us a little bit of experience.   
But we might be a little bit rusty this time of year, but we're all looking forward to it.   
 Q.  Essentially, it's a young team, it's a new-ish team and seems to gel very quickly, doesn't it?  
CHRIS WOOD: Yeah, it's quite easy, when you have someone like Clarke who is captain, he can get the boys together pretty nicely.  He's probably become accustomed to team golf now; the ping-pong table and FIFA going on in the team room, so all things like that really help.   
 Q.  It does beg the question, how serious this event is, because it sounds like a bit of a jolly and good fun for you.  
CHRIS WOOD: No, I think that's a big part of team golf, just being able to gel and having a bit of banter when you're not on the golf course.  It all sort of adds to the team morale, really.  That's been shown in Ryder Cups, not done them any harm.  We are all really focused on tomorrow morning and getting out and we know who we're playing with and try and win some points.   
 Q.  And essentially, you can see how important this competition has the potential to be, can't you?  
CHRIS WOOD: Definitely.  It's two huge continents, Europe and Asia, and obviously with Darren being Ryder Cup Captain this year, this is obviously going to be massive benefit for him and good practise for him, really.  Hopefully a few of us will be with him come September in America.   
 Q.  Nice to play in January, isn't it?  
CHRIS WOOD: Yeah, it is, actually.  I've got a full month ahead.  Instead of lying on my sofa with a broken wrist last year, yeah.  Got to get used to being out in those climates in January instead of being at home in Bristol in the freezing cold watching the odd game of football.  I'd much rather be doing this.   
 Q.  How do you cope with the heat?  
CHRIS WOOD: Not very well.  Well, down in Sun City a few weeks ago, ended up on a drip.  That was pretty hot down there.  So far, so good; no hospital visits yet this week.  I generally stick with cold towel over my neck, fill it with ice cubes and you literally can't drink enough.  I've probably had six litres today, and it's half past three now.  Probably only halfway there to what I need.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT