THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2014
Chris Wood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Fantastic today.CHRIS WOOD: You should have seen me the first three rounds.  I couldn't see a 75 the first three days, let alone a 65.  But I stayed up late with Mitch, my coach, last night, until about half 11 on the sofa, just trying to chat things through and trying to find the root cause of the problem.  We've been on the range after every day struggling through it, not quite finding the problem. But, yeah, last night I'd say we really got to the bottom of it and I was a different player today.Q. (Inaudible.)CHRIS WOOD: A bit of grip, to be honest.  I've always had history of my hands moving on the club, which doesn't help when you're trying to hit the same shot every time.  So it was a case of getting the hand pressure right.  I hit the ball as well as I've done the last sort of six weeks today.Q. You came in here with a lack of confidence, like you said, after the first couple of days --CHRIS WOOD: Yeah, today helps massively.  Punk, my caddie, said, just walking up the first I hit a better drive, slightly left, but it was a better shot.  And he said when Harrington his majors, he said the tournament before he won, he struggled, but found something on the last day.  And took the confidence from that into the following week.  So that's hopefully what I can take out of today.Q. (Inaudible.)CHRIS WOOD: I haven't looked like shooting 65, especially around a course this tough for five or six weeks.  So it's been a struggle. So, yeah, I felt like hopefully I can push on for the rest of the season.Q. (Inaudible.)CHRIS WOOD: Just the World Ranking for me, getting to the top 50 in the world.  Obviously good ranking points this week.  I would have thought I'll probably inside a top 30.  But who knows.  But there will be some decent points.  I've got to just keep picking points where I can and keep moving up.Q. (Inaudible.)CHRIS WOOD: Yeah, even if I shot 80 today, I would have still have loved it.  When you get here, the first day you arrive, there's nothing like it.  And the crowds are always great.  It's got such a great feel about it.  As an Englishman it's the best golf tournament in the world.Q. (Inaudible.)CHRIS WOOD: Last night, just before midnight, I think.  I sat on the sofa and fiddling around with my coach and a few things.  Sort of felt like, yeah, we've got to the bottom of it now, because I really did struggle the first -- you would have seen a few shockers out there.Q. (Inaudible.)CHRIS WOOD: He couldn't?  Yeah, exactly, yeah.  So it was just a case of battling through.Q. When did you feel you were really enjoying it?CHRIS WOOD: You always enjoy an Open.  As soon as I hit my first tee shot I knew it was different.  And it was a better shot.  I hadn't hit a shot quite as -- it was a good one, instead of just bad.  So it was a good start for me off, really.Q. (Inaudible.)CHRIS WOOD: A little bit.  I felt like I could start it certainly straighter, anyway, and not so far down the right, I have to flick it with my hands little bit.  And it was a much sort of more bolder strike today.Q. (Inaudible.)CHRIS WOOD: No, we were gripping umbrellas.  We were gripping putter shakers just to try to get a feeling, to try and get the left hand to stay on the club and doing all sorts of hand -- but until you hit balls in the morning.  So I said to him, I felt better on the range.  I could tell with the ball and the strike.  So, yeah, it was much better.Q. (Inaudible.)CHRIS WOOD: Not really, no.  I could have easily shot 80, 75 in the first two rounds and gone home in a sulk.  It was a lot better today.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT