WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 2, 2013
Chris Wood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You're playing your first Bridgestone.   I'm sure you weren't too far off to see what was going on with the scene with Tiger trying to shoot 59.   What was it like from your vantage point?  
CHRIS WOOD:   Quite noisy out there, and you know when it's Tiger because it's just a slightly louder and slightly different roar.   And obviously he's had eight, nine or ten of them, big ones today.   The score he's putting together out there is pretty amazing today.  
   
 Q.   You're playing well obviously.   How good is a 60 or 61 on this golf course today?   
CHRIS WOOD:   Oh, I certainly wouldn't have seen it.   I think Olazábal had the course record here.   My caddie used to work for them, and we were talking about that going around.   If he probably birdies the last, he's broken it.   Pretty impressive.  
   
 Q.   Because of the threesome split tees tomorrow, you will be playing with him.   What is your experience with him and what are your anticipations?   
CHRIS WOOD:   Well, I've never been out with him.   He's up here as high as you can get in my book as far as what he's achieved is just phenomenal.   Like I said, he's been my golfing hero since I was 10, when I started the game, really.   To be out with the world No.1, Tiger Woods, is going to take a bit of getting used to, I think.   
   
 Q.   If he's playing like he is, what's that going to be like?  
CHRIS WOOD:   It's going to make it a lot harder because obviously you're trying to beat everyone you're out with.   You know, he's obviously on his game.   I said to my caddie on the range, he was hitting balls next to me this morning he looked really impressive, totally in control.   It's going to be a real challenge for me tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   This is a huge opportunity for you, isn't it?   
CHRIS WOOD:   Yeah, it is.   But I've got to forget about all that sort of thing.   As hard as it's going to be, I've just got to try and play my game and enjoy the experience because I never got to meet Seve, which I would have loved to have done, and to play with Tiger potentially, yeah, in a final group in a big event is pretty special.   I won't forget it.   
   
 Q.   What's your caddie's name?  
CHRIS WOOD:   Brendan McCarty.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT