ISPS HANDA WALES OPEN
June 1, 2012
Chris Wood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How was that?  
CHRIS WOOD:   Pretty solid.   I played nicely all the way around but nothing happened really for had he over the first eight or nine holes.   Birdied the first, first birdie of the day, played backwards and birdied the second and seemed to get a bit of momentum from there really, which I was lacking early on I think.   
   
 Q.   Essentially the two days have been pretty solid, because you held it together in the winds?  
CHRIS WOOD:   Yeah, I played -- a surprise to play reasonable yesterday really.   Played a bit better today I would said than yesterday.   But just conditions were probably slightly easier this afternoon than they were yesterday, but I still haven't birdied a couple of holes which I would like to.   So there's still definitely a few shots out there.   
   
 Q.   Why the surprise?  
CHRIS WOOD:   I had a bit of a back issue Wednesday coming off the course in practise.   Didn't think I was going to be playing Thursday morning.   So I owe a lot to my physio and my trainer back in Bristol to get me playing, basically.   So my expectations have been very low.   
   
 Q.   Which is the ongoing problem, but was there something of an extra spasm or something on the Wednesday?   
CHRIS WOOD:   Yeah, played five holes Wednesday afternoon in practise.   Hit my tee shot on the sixth and had to walk in, like a trapped nerve sort of feeling, something slightly different to my problem that I've been managing really well.   This is just a bit of a random one, but a lot of painkillers and a lot of treatment, and it seems to be easing quite considerably.   
   
 Q.   You said about low expectations, purely understand why now?  
CHRIS WOOD:   Yeah, I think the tablets helped, as well.   
   
 Q.   Keep you mellow out there?   
CHRIS WOOD:   Yeah, so same approach for the next couple of days.  
   
 Q.   Are you going home each night.   
CHRIS WOOD:   Yeah, lovely, sitting on my sofa at 8.00, nine o'clock at night is better than sitting on your bed in a hotel room.   So this is the one week of the year that I can do it and I enjoy every minute of it.  
   
 Q.   Most of us fancy that than a hotel room but that must be genuinely better physically.   
CHRIS WOOD:   Yeah, it was nice to be able to cook, as well, and not having to eat in restaurants every night, cook what you want.   I've seen a couple of friends this week.   Feeling like I'm at home but I'm playing, as well.   So it's been really nice.   We don't get to do it very often, so you enjoy it.  
   
 Q.   I know in chatting to you previous years here, this is one that meant a lot because it was so close and you had so much support.   I'm sure it still means a lot but the expectation levels --  
CHRIS WOOD:   Yeah, I always get quite a few people come over to support me.   Usually run out of free tickets this week quite quickly.   So it's really nice and yeah, it's only half an hour from here over the bridge; six pound over the bridge is a bit nicer than a hotel bill at the end of the week.   
   
 Q.   And if you carry on at this rate, that six pound will be a drop in the ocean.   
CHRIS WOOD:   We'll see, we'll see.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT