U.S. TEAM OLYMPIC TRIALS: SWIMMING
July 2, 2012
Dara Torres
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Can you talk about everything from start to finish tonight.   How it was before and during and now? 
DARA TORRES:   You know, everything was good.   The one thing I said to my coach before walking out was, you know, I've done everything I possibly could, so whatever is going to happen is going to happen.   That was my goal, to make the team and Madison beating me by 1/10th of a second is tough, but I don't think there is anything that I could change, and for me swimming three times and getting fourth at Olympic Trials against girls half my age. 
I'm used to winning, but that wasn't the goal here, the goal was to try to make it.   I didn't quite do it, but I'm happy with how I did and I was able to hang in there for three races. 

Q.   How is Tess taking it? 
DARA TORRES:   She is bummed that she is not going to London. 

Q.   How old is she? 
DARA TORRES:   She is six. 

Q.   Did you have butterflies beforehand? 
DARA TORRES:   Oh my God, yeah.   It's the same as if I'm 17 years old, the exact same feeling.   That's a feeling I'm not going to miss is how you feel before you swim.   I'm able to channel it well, and I know how to deal with the nerves, so every time I walk out there and the crowd is so wonderful, and I have had so much great support, I wasn't nervous when I got to the blocks; I was just ready to go. 

Q.   This is really over, right? 
DARA TORRES:   This is really over. 

Q.   49? ‑‑
DARA TORRES:   No, no, hard enough time to swim a 50 Free time.   That's it.   I'm going to enjoy some time with my daughter, and spend time with my daughter and cheer on the U.S. team from afar. 

Q.   Are you going to sign those retirement papers? 
DARA TORRES:   I'm calling them tonight!   I think tonight it will sink in a little more.   I was very emotional before my swim.   I was putting my suit on, and started crying because I started thinking about Michael and in Julyof 2010, he had said to me, "Let's go for this," and I really wanted to finish the story that I started with him, and it's tough that I didn't make it, but I know he would be proud. 

Q.   How did you feel about the race itself?   Was that your best? 
DARA TORRES:   You know, I look back and in 2000 I went 24.9 to qualify sothis time 12 years later, I mean, you've got to look at it realistically, and as much as I wanted to win and make the team, that's pretty good for a 45 year old. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
DARA TORRES:   I think this time around is going to be the most special to me because I think mentally it's been so tough the past couple of years with having more down workouts, than good workouts, and going to Nice and not being able to go faster at night than I did in the morning, it's been tough. 
For me to come back here and be able to swim three times and just be a little off of what I went yesterday and to be able to recover, it's just special and rewarding to have gone through that and learned how to deal with that. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
DARA TORRES:   Yeah. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
DARA TORRES:   You know what, my mom said in the video earlier she was in the Michael Phelps pool and went against the current, so I think Justin Bieber is out, and Michael Phelps is in, now. 
You guys have been wonderful. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT