HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 21, 2018
Moriya Jutanugarn
Benyapa Niphatsophon
Saranporn Langkulgasettrin
Ariya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. For all of you:  What is it like playing in Thailand?  We travel around the world so much on the LPGA Tour.  It's great playing in Thailand.  What are your thoughts on playing in Thailand and showing your country to the rest of the world in week?  For any of you.
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, to me, playing in Thailand is always great, and playing in front of Thai people, Thai fan, is always like feeling like really --  I always feel like really warm welcome, just like home.
And also like, you know, to show people how good facility we have, like really good golf course, really good hotel, really nice town.  And of course like spend time here is more than perfect.  It's just really good week.  And Thai people are very nice.  And Thai food, too.  Thai food is the best.
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: We always have like huge fan here, like people come out here and watch us play, support us.  It's great for me to play in my home country.
SARANPORN LANGKULGASETTRIN: Yeah, for me it always feel great to play in Thailand, because I travel like in China and they also support me, but for Thai people, I always feel warm.  They always welcome me.  They support us.  I always love to be back in my country.
I love the food here.  I eat a lot always and not even work out.  So it's like, okay.  So my dad has to stop me from eating Thai foods.  Can you just stop and go work out?  I was like, No, I'm just going to eat here.  I'm not going to leave my own plate.
Like last week I was in Australia and I missed Thai food a lot.  Like first three days I was in there I was like, Okay, I want to go back home now.
Q. I have one for Benyapa, and then I'll step out.  This is you're first full year on tour.  You won the race for the card last year on the Symetra Tour.  How do you feel that your year on the Symetra Tour prepared you for your first year out on the LPGA Tour?
BENYAPA NIPHATSOPHON: I think Symetra Tour is help me a lot for get ready to LPGA, because they're similar.  Just like similar tournament but four day, yeah.
I think Symetra Tour is great.  It's like future tour to improving also to be like worldwide.
Q. How do you feel coming into your first year on the LPGA Tour now?
BENYAPA NIPHATSOPHON: I feel great.
Q. Good.  (Laughter.)  Easy enough.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT