US OPEN
September 6, 2019
Robert Farah
Juan Sebastian Cabal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CABAL-FARAH/Granollers-Zeballos
6-4, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Another Grand Slam win. How does this one feel?
JUAN SEBASTIAN CABAL: Unreal. Unreal. It's amazing. What a journey. If you tell us three months ago that this is going to happen, I probably will not believe you (smiling).
But that's the way, this life that we are pretty blessed. We thank God to give us that we are healthy. We have a great team behind us that let us play, be 100% every day to play.
We just put the work. Every day we just believe in work, push every day to be better. Thank God we are here in this media with this trophy.
Q. It was only two sets, but seemed to be a really tight, contested match today. What did you think about it?
ROBERT FARAH: Yeah, it was a tough match. We knew we had to bring our A game today. We knew they are very good. They have been very good singles players, and they are very good doubles players. So that's very tough combination to play against.
To be able to come out the way we did with the energy we did and to come through it is very rewarding for us and very happy for it.
Q. You have been extremely good in finals this year. What do you think the key to your success has been?
JUAN SEBASTIAN CABAL: Just believe in the work. Like we put ourself in this kind of moment, this kind of pressure a lot of time before, so we are handling the pressure, the big times really well. You know what is happening, you know how you are gonna react.
Is normal to be in this situation, so every time you handle it better, you play better this type of matches and situations.
So I think is our reward, because we are putting ourself in these kind of moments in a lot of tournaments every time. So at the end it's a reward of being always there playing those kind of matches.
Q. Congratulations. I would like to ask you what does it mean to your country winning now as a double doubles title after Ivan Molina that won the first in 1974? You are the other one who bring this achievement for Colombia for a long while. Do you have any recollection, or did you meet Ivan? Talk about this success. You are now hero in your country.
ROBERT FARAH: Well, yeah, we know Ivan for quite a while now. He's a great mentor and good coach in the junior level. He's been with the ITF program for quite a bit now.
I mean, for us to be named on his same level and to be Grand Slam champions, it's an honor. The way Colombia received us when we came back from Wimbledon was really breathtaking, and I think that -- I mean, I don't even want to think about how crazy it gonna be now that we come back from the US Open.
I think that back-to-back is quite an achievement, and, I mean, we just have to say, Thank you, Colombia, for all that support and that good vibe they always give us. We are very happy to represent our country the way that we are doing it.
Q. How did they receive you? What kind of things did you do?
ROBERT FARAH: Oh, man. If I only tell you, I mean, it was big. It was big.
Sebas arrive to Cali. There was basically 20,000 people there in the airport. They receive him with a fire truck. They put him on top of the fire truck with the flags. I mean, people everywhere. There was a caravan going to the city.
I arrived to Bogota, and I kept saying to the Colombian media I felt like Shakira felt for, like, two hours, because you come out and there is all these journalists, and everyone's coming and they're chanting "Colombia, Colombia," and there is a bunch of flags in the airport. I wasn't expecting that, and it was crazy. Yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT