THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 13, 2019
Robert Farah
Juan Sebastian Cabal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CABAL-FARAH/Mahut-Roger-Vasselin
6-7, 7-6, 7-6, 6-7, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. One of the longest men's doubles finals we've seen here.  How special does it feel to come through such a tough battle and be the first Colombian doubles winners?
ROBERT FARAH: I mean, I'm speechless.  Really, I kept watching the watch through the first and second set.  I'm like, we finished the second set and it's been 2 hours and 15 minutes play.  This is ridiculous.  How long is this?
From there on, we just kept battling, kept battling, just focus on the game.  Once we lose the fourth set, we have that break.  We sat down, I put my legs up, I got a rub by my physio.  Sebas put his legs up, too.  Sorry.
Once we come back to the court, I seriously had a second wind.  I felt so good again.  I feel like we played unreal that third set.
JUAN SEBASTIAN CABAL: Fifth.
ROBERT FARAH: Fifth set.  We really got our returns in, put the pressure.
To do this for Colombia, since Colsanitas started sponsoring the sport, got some history, it's just crazy.  I mean, to be part of it is just amazing.
Q. Did you feel the break was pretty pivotal for you guys?
ROBERT FARAH: I felt very nervous when we broke the first time, even though I don't think we got broken because of mistakes.  They actually had very good points at 15-40 and 30-40.
Of course, once you're 4-3 and you break, you know you got to hold once and you're champion of Wimbledon.  You go Love-30 down with one crazy point at Love-15.
I mean, Sebas, I think he show his courage, show his emotions, how calm he is.  I'm not sure if he made four first serves, but it was something like that.
Pure joy.
Q. You're the new world No. 1 on Monday.  How does it feel to have the double whammy of a win and world No. 1?
JUAN SEBASTIAN CABAL: Just crazy.  The moment we're living right now is just crazy.  We never actually won three matches here in a row.  No two matches in a regular tournament ATP on grass.  Now we won two tournaments in a row and we're No. 1 in the world.  What I can say?
ROBERT FARAH: What just happened (smiling)?
JUAN SEBASTIAN CABAL: What I can say to you?  We focus in our game.  We have our rule:  just fight until the last point.  We keep fighting, keep working.
Actually the whole many years of work is the whole parcel make together today.  I don't know how to say it, how you want to put it.  Everything make sense.  We're here, we won Wimbledon.  It's amazing.  We're No. 1.
For Colombia, it's huge.  Like Rob just said, we mainly have this story 10 years ago with Fabiola, many years ago, in the WTA.  But in the ATP with Falla, Giraldo, Gonzalez, long time ago.  But now it's like really making the big tournaments, breaking news, finals ATP.
We just won Wimbledon for Colombia.  It's huge.  I don't know how to explain it, but it's huge for our country.  I hope everybody enjoys us.
Q. What's the secret of your partnership?
ROBERT FARAH: I think we've been friends, almost brothers, since we're five.  We literally grew up together.  We were sponsored by Colsanitas since we were 10, 11.  Grew up together in a house.
Basically that gives you a strong bond.  Not only with Sebas but with all the other Davis Cup players, Alejandro Falla, Santiago Giraldo.
And obviously Sebas and I, since I left college in 2010, we said, Let's play together.  We had played before I went to college.  It worked out from the beginning.  It clicked.
I know Sebas has the touch, has the magic in his hands.  I have the power.  I feel like that's a very good duo.  It's great to live this with your brother, your brother like from another mother.  It's like a cliché, but it's really what it is.
Q. You work with Jeff.  What does he bring the team?
JUAN SEBASTIAN CABAL: He deserve everything.  We get the credit, but actually he's the guy that change our life, change our tour, change our tennis level, let's say like that.  He's the one that put in the work behind the scenes, let's put like this.
He deserve equal credit or more than us because he is a life changer for us.  We respect him.  We give him all the credit he deserve.  We're really happy life put him in our lives.
Q. You had to go to the Royal Box.  How was the experience?
ROBERT FARAH: Not every day the whole royalty of the UK is watching you play tennis.  I mean, it's just indescribable.  That court is just magical.  I don't have any other words to describe that court, it's just magical.  Every time I've been in that court I feel the same thing.
JUAN SEBASTIAN CABAL: It's the best court on tour.
ROBERT FARAH: You're just in the most exclusive tennis court in the world.  I mean, the whole history that court has is just crazy.  To think you grew up watching it, now you're winning in it, just becomes even more magical.
Q. Did you guys apologize, not apologize when you hit each other?
JUAN SEBASTIAN CABAL: Obviously you apologize.  It's two versions of hitting the other guy.  Today it was a play.  It wasn't nothing bad intentions.  In the whole match we hit them, they hit us.  So when it is the play, is nothing you can do.  It's doubles, that's it.  It's too fast, quick, good hands.  That's the way it is.
When it's bad intention, you know it.  You know when you, like, really want to make damage or people that really look to you.  When it's in the play, everybody knows it.  That's why if you can see it, every time we hit each other, it was like good environment, good, fair play.  Everything was good.  Nothing bad looks or anything.
Is the play it is, is doubles, nothing strange with these guys.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT