SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 28, 2006
Doug Tewell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DOUG TEWELL:  I did some good things.  But the main thing was I made birdies.  That just offsets those bogeys that you're going to find out there.
Q.  How did the elbow hold up?
DOUG TEWELL:  It held up pretty good.  Honestly, it hurts the most when I'm hitting the long irons.  For some reason when I get that three and 4 iron, it just, that's where I feel it and I hit these tail fades all the time.  Today I hit two of them and I missed the green right and it cost me two bogeys.  But I just go, you know.  You got to smarten up and play farther to the left when you get a long iron in your hand.  You just play that big slider.  That's what you do when you get older, you start throwing junk up there, you know.
Q.  None of these guys got to see Oak Tree as you guys do in the spring and fall.  What you do I this about that?
DOUG TEWELL:  Well, I would rather it been a little bit tamer and where we could tuck the pins a little bit more.  Certainly the wind dictated a lot of interesting shots today.  And I saw Bruce Lietzke hitting his shot to the 8th hole when I was playing the 6th.  And I thought he's got no chance.  He can't start it far enough out on the like to hit to that pin.  And I thought, know, it's just a shame because it kind of takes that hole away from him.

But, you know, I got around there and I stiffed it and made birdie, unlike    well, you know, I guess I trusted it more because I hit the shot so much more here day in and day out than say most guys who only played here five or six rounds.  But I'm pleased.  This is the best I've gotten out of myself in a year.  So maybe we can build on this now and get the arm    if I can play some shorter courses, maybe I can contend.
Q.  Now the week's over for you and the tournament's over, what has the experience been like for you and the club, this tournament?
DOUG TEWELL:  Well, I'm very proud.  I'm proud to be a member of this club and represent this club on TOUR.  But you know what I'm most proud of?  Is all of the people in the Oklahoma City metroplex.  Especially Edmond, my hometown and the way they volunteered, they spent tireless hours out here.  I can't even begin to thank them all enough.  I wish I could have them all over for dinner or something.  But they did an absolutely remarkable job.  All the feedback from the players has been pretty good.  There's always some negative feedback.  But I kiddingly said to Allen Doyle, he said why would you want to live here?  I said well I looked at LaGrange first and I chose this second.  So.  That's where he's from.

But that's okay.  We were just having fun.  But, no, the people just did a magnificent job and to keep looking in at those folks in the yellow shirts out there, just dying in the heat, most of them were friends of mine and I just can't thank them enough.  They did a great job.  I hope they get to all go home and soak their feet tonight and go, wow, we did a good job.
Q.  Do you think that after this week Oak Tree can get back into the rotation hosting Major championships?
DOUG TEWELL:  Well, I would like to think.  So I think that we proved that we can pull it off.  Certainly with the corporate support we had up there.  You look on that hill, I think there were 19 corporate tenths.  That's pretty strong.

We're just the old guys.  What if they bring in all the superstars in here.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT