CANON GREATER HARTFORD OPEN
July 3, 1998
Doug Tewell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Christie has been checking up on you from Hershey.  
 
DOUG TEWELL:  She's using my credit card, too, I'll guarantee you.   
 

Q.  For those of you may not know, his daughter Kristi is married to Pat Bates.  You've got to be happy. 
 
DOUG TEWELL:  I'm very happy, considering I played here Wednesday, wasn't in the tournament till sometime Monday, so extremely happy.   
 

Q.  You said you flew in on Wednesday? 
 
DOUG TEWELL:  Yes.   
 

Q.  They notified you Monday? 
 
DOUG TEWELL:  They notified me Monday, but I was in Fort Lauderdale taking treatment to my right elbow.  I really was going to wait until Tuesday to decide if I was going to come, depending how the treatment went, because I was broadcasting last week in Pinehurst at the club pro.  My right harm began to ache.  I played Pinebrook Friday and Saturday.  That's probably why it began to ache, but I went down and took some new treatment in Fort Lauderdale.  That's not even FDA approved yet, let me tell you what.  They better get it approved.  It works.  I can swing pain-free in a matter of 48 hours, doctor by the name of Jerry Jacobsen who does some low magnetic therapy.  Boy, it's just wonderful.  No drugs, no nothing.  It's just kind of like ultrasound in a well, low-level magnets, and it seems to be working, so Dr. Jacobsen, wherever you are, thank you.   
 

Q.  That the usual spelling of Jacobson, S-O-N? 
 
DOUG TEWELL:  I think it's S-E-N.   
 

Q.  That's actually the other elbow, too. 
 
DOUG TEWELL:  This is the one I -- the left elbow I had surgery on.  This is the right one.  Things are beginning to run out of warranty.   
 

Q.  When did you have the surgery? 
 
DOUG TEWELL:  I had the surgery September '95.  I was out 16 months and, of course, lost my exempt status, started doing broadcasting for the Golf Channel, got complacent doing that.  I basically play now when I'm in the field and August of '99 I get to go to the major leagues, the senior major leagues.   
 

Q.  Have you gotten in a tournament late before and done well? 
 
DOUG TEWELL:  Not that I can, you know, honestly remember, but I don't think it's unusual for guys as they get up there in years if they play the course a lot.  Sometimes they come in a little bit late.  I could have been here Tuesday, probably.  I took the choice of let's go ahead and do some more therapy and make sure it works.  About Tuesday I was convinced it was working and so I knew I was coming.   
 

Q.  What's the drug you took beside that hasn't been FDA approved? 
 
DOUG TEWELL:  It's not a drug, it's just a treatment.  It's called resonant therapy.  I hope I'm doing it justice.  But it's -- it helps to sort of relax the magnetic field, the brain waves.  It helps healing inside your system.  Your body has natural magnetic fields in it.  This doctor has been studying for 18 years and he's finally onto something and he's been treating all types of patients with MS and migraine headaches and bits and pieces of everything.  He has an FDA serial number, but doesn't have approval yet; hoping to get approval the next few months.  I heard about it through Dennis Sheiner(ph) who broadcasts for the Golf Channel.  I went down to his clinic and visited with him and ran into Hall of Famer bowler Don Carter in there for migraines.  It's amazing some of the people taking treatment down there.   
 

Q.  When did you first take treatment or is this the first -- 
 
DOUG TEWELL:  It was Monday and Tuesday.  I took two treatments each day and it's basically like a couple of symbols you put your arm in there for 30, 40 minutes and they can adjust the -- how serious the treatment is, or how relaxed they want.  I guess they treat migraines by relaxing the magnetic field or something.  I'm not a doctor, obviously.   
 

Q.  How soon did you feel relief? 
 
DOUG TEWELL:  I felt pretty good relief after the second treatment.  The first treatment I couldn't tell much difference.  And the second treatment I thought that night that my arm hurt less, and then Tuesday morning I took a treatment and then I went out to Heron Bay to hit balls.  I stood with a big smile.  I said, "I can't believe this, I'm absolutely pain-free."  My arm hurts in various positions, it's sore.  When I actually make the golf swing, I don't have any pain.  
 

Q.  How bad off were you before the treatment?  
 
DOUG TEWELL:  I was real stiff-armed.  I could play, but I didn't feel -- I was real weak.  I didn't feel like I was hitting the ball far off the tee.  I was really sort of dragging my arms through and instead of releasing it, I could feel the pain every time I released.  I just favored it.  I'm real excited about it.  I'm going back for more treatment.  
 

Q.  What's this fella's first name? 
 
DOUG TEWELL:  Jerry, Dr. Jerry Jacobsen.  A company called Pioneer Services International right now.  I'm not quite sure why the name is that.  We'll see.   
 

Q.  How long did your elbow bother you?  
 
DOUG TEWELL:  About a month now, I guess.  I pulled a piece of luggage across the bed one day and hyper-extended something.  I tell you, I was getting to the point where at this stage you can't even hardly stand up without pulling something.  I don't know what the problem is.   
 

Q.  Does the work that you do, or has the work that you've done for the Golf Channel improved your game any or helped your game any? 
 
DOUG TEWELL:  I would say yes.  You know, I did some broadcasting for ESPN several years ago and Jim Cobert(ph) was the first one to really make that statement to me, he said to me, "You do this broadcasting for two or three years, you watch what happens to your golf game, you're going to play smarter, you're going to play better."  I thought, well, great, never hurts to play smarter out there.  And never hurts to play better, I think he's right.  I can't tell you where it's all happening.  I don't know, I think I'm making less and less mistake, because I see mistakes made.  I also see guys maybe make a couple of bogies and sometimes they think they're out and, boom, they're right back in it.  I think that's the thing you have to learn.  Don't get your head down.  If you've got holes left and you're a good player, who's to say you can't birdie it?  I felt that happened to me a little today.  I made a bogey, I got a little rattled.  I said, okay, keep going, it's only Friday.  Nobody is going to win today anyway.  This is just -- no show money, no nothing.  This is, you know, if I can beat the field again now for the next two days, I'll have a chance to win.   
 

Q.  Why don't you take us through this round today. 
 
DOUG TEWELL:  I thought the round started off very benign.  I was just a little short -- today I drove the ball better.  Yesterday I missed six fairways which is very unusual for me, very unusual.  Today I missed one fairway.  I hit the 10th fairway, I started there and missed the first green, chipped it for a tap in par.  I parred 11, 12, 13, 14, all pretty much textbook down the fairway on the green, missed the putts.  And finally at 15, I wanted to hit -- we had a long, long wait there for David Duval to get out of the woods which apparently he did quite well; but I hit a five iron pitching wedge into there and made a 15 footer for birdie and that kind of seemed to kind of relax me a little bit.  I hit a good shot at 16, but missed the putt.  Back at 17 I hit a three wood off the tee.  That was the fairway I missed.  I hit in it the first cut of rough.  I had a pretty good lie, six iron, hit it 33 feet and made that for birdie, 18, driver, four iron, two putts for par.  I really seemed to get dialed in.  When I got it to six under par, I felt very comfortable.  I made it six inches with a seven iron on the first hole.  I hit it two feet at the second hole with a sand wedge, hit it four feet at the third hole with an eight iron, but missed it.  I came right back at the fourth hole, missed the green to the right.  And I missed about four and a half footer there for par.  Probably the turning point for the round was the par three.  I left it just short of the green, chipped it a good 15 feet past the hole, made it coming back for par.  I thought that kind of turned around.  I hit it five feet at the par five, missed it, parred the seventh hole with a two-putt and I hit a three-iron about two feet on the eighth hole, made that birdie, two putted nine from about 15 feet.  This round today was much more of a solid type of round than the round yesterday.  Yesterday was a six birdie round.  Today just seemed a little more compact, a little more together.   
 

Q.  Do you know who pulled out so you could come into the tournament? 
 
DOUG TEWELL:  I don't.  I think a lot of guys got in behind me.  In fact, they played a short field.  
 

Q.  156?  
 
DOUG TEWELL:  Did they go 156, when I called Sunday from Pinehurst, they told me I was first off.  I felt pretty sure I would get in.  Greg Crass made top ten.  I figured he wasn't exempt yet.  I didn't call again till Monday.  I was in by then.   
 

Q.  What time Monday? 
 
DOUG TEWELL:  About noon, I think on Monday when I checked in.   
 

Q.  When did you finally get here today? 
 
DOUG TEWELL:  I got here at the golf course about 2 o'clock on Wednesday, hit a few balls, putted, talked to my caddie about the golf course, walked down to the 18th green and said, okay, I'm ready.   
 

Q.  So yesterday was the first day you golfed this course? 
 
DOUG TEWELL:  Ah-huh you.  You know, when you played here, when you played the TOUR for so long and you played these courses, they don't change a whole lot.  The rain, obviously, I think probably helps you in preparation like this, because I heard the greens were pretty firm.  I think it would have been a little tougher to adjust to harder greens, now the greens are starting to firm up.  I noticed this last night the ball was not holding quite as much.   
 

Q.  (Inaudible.) 
 
DOUG TEWELL:  He hit his golf bag on the seventh green and bent the putter.  He started to putt, he noticed it was bent.  He went back and changed.  Ken Green.   
 

Q.  He wasn't available for comment, I would imagine that's right.  Do you know what he used on the eighth hole? 
 
DOUG TEWELL:  I think that was a sand wedge.   
 

Q.  It looked pretty lofty. 
 
DOUG TEWELL:  That's usually what you use.   
 

Q.  The last hole?  
 
DOUG TEWELL:  I wasn't watching him after that.   
 

Q.  Do you have a realistic goal now after two rounds where you want to finish?  Is winning a pipe dream. 
 
DOUG TEWELL:  It's not a pipe dream.  I don't think winning is a pipe dream right now for me.  I feel like I'm playing well enough to win.  I've got to trust myself.  That's what winning is.  It's trusting your swing.  I know there's going to be some pressure, nervousness out there, that's okay.  I know how to play nervous.  You've got to trust it to your selecting the right shots.  No, I wouldn't call it a pipe dream.  I know how to win.  I've forgotten for a few years, I've got to get back out there and remind myself.   
 

Q.  This would be crown glory.  This would be a good at your age?  
 
DOUG TEWELL:  At my age, that's.  And to be called old man by David Duval, you know, I got it.  I got to get his number.  Good friends you let do that, though, so I don't mind.  As long as they're calling me something, that means I'm doing something right.   
 

Q.  We'll go get his number and enjoy the weekend. 
 
DOUG TEWELL:  Thank you.   
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT