SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2006
Doug Tewell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
How did you play?
DOUG TEWELL:  I thought it was looking pretty good with four holes to go.  And then all of a sudden I started playing kind of casual.  I hit more club than I needed on 6, the ball hit into the mound and I said, well, there's a bogey.

Then 7, I'm going to play it down that left side, because I know the wind will    I mean I pull hook it into the trees and I'm like, I go, gosh, you better just go back to hitting it hard.  So I made some mistakes coming in.

But trust me, if someone had said 71 in the club house this morning I would have said, I'll just sit here and watch you play.
Q.  How hard was it out there?
DOUG TEWELL:  It was tough.  When I got 154 into the ninth hole, which is the old    or I'm sorry, 18 there, and I took a 4 iron and just punch it, because the wind is blowing so hard.  You have to sort of invent shots today and that seems to be what's    if I could invent a few shots right now it helps my goal.
Q.  Is this what you kind of envisioned, is this what you kind of warned the guys about?
DOUG TEWELL:  We, yeah, we knew that    they were worried about the rough getting up, and I said don't worry about the rough, the wind will dictate the scores here.  So I was just fortunate, I kept the ball in play all day and hit the pin on the last hole, which kind of saved par for me after three bogeys in a row.  But, you know, it's just a tough day and you just have to stay extremely patient and it was hard over some of those four footers just standing still.

We got out there on the fifth hole, two of us backed off.  I mean you just couldn't stand still to hit the putts.  So I feel pretty fortunate to shoot even par today.  But I have grown up in it, I guess I ought to    if I had an advantage this week, I found one maybe, I don't know.
Q.  Is this the day, kind of day for the home course knowledge to help you?
DOUG TEWELL:  Oh, I think a lot.  Yeah, I think a lot.  There's no question.  I knew where I didn't want to be.  If I overhit it or something, you know    I played pretty conservative starting out and then just played
Q.  Stadler shot 84 and felt good about it.  He didn't even have a 3 putt for an 84.
DOUG TEWELL:  Well, it's just one of those days.  I feel very good about it, obviously, I'm tickled to death.  I wanted to beat the course, I wanted to get it in the red, and if there's a disappointment, that's what it is.
Q.  You said you can't attack, but how do you narrow the gap?  Do you just hold your own and hopefully think they will back up?
DOUG TEWELL:  I was holding my own there, just like I said, like I said yesterday, I want to get it back to even par.  So at least I did that.  Now I made that a little harder, it was looking easy four holes ago and now I'm going to have to go out and play equally as well tomorrow.  But I need for the conditions to be tough to make up any ground.
Q.  Were there times it was a four club wind?
DOUG TEWELL:  No, no I think mostly it was two to two and a half clubs all day.  Pretty much.
Q.  You said you had to be patient today, do you think you'll have enough patience to do it again tomorrow?
DOUG TEWELL:  Well, we'll find out tomorrow.  I hope I do.  I'm just going to have to be doubly patient because I'm sure    I'm not firing on all cylinders.
Q.  You said you shouldn't even be out here really?
DOUG TEWELL:  Well my arm is killing me.  I didn't take the pain killer today.  I took it yesterday and I said I'm not going to take it today.  And it just gets a little number in my fingers and it's just the way it goes.  Kite kept me up all night, you know, just hollering.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT