FORD SENIOR PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
July 9, 2004
Doug Tewell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DAVE SENKO:  Doug, another 67 today to go with 69 yesterday.  Maybe just get us started and talk a little about your day.
DOUG TEWELL:   Well, I think the golf course seemed much more tame today obviously than what we saw late yesterday.  It was very windy and cool.  As I just said outside to the media, I think the cool probably had as much to do with the toughness as even the wind.  We older guys don't like that cold weather; we like it hot and sweating.

But played better today.  I'm hitting the ball good from tee to green.  I'm just getting a little frustrated on the greens at times.  I'm getting in these modes where I just start flagging it, and, you know, you can't get too disgusted when you're making 6 , 7 , 8 foot putts, but you need to make your share of them, too.  You just try to keep plugging along, and that's kind of what I've been doing here for two days.  I've made 12 birdies in two days, and a couple of mistakes, but all in all I can't complain.

I'm going to work on a few little things this afternoon and we're in good spot at the halfway point.  I don't have the old jersey on but I have it planned that way.
DAVE SENKO:  Birdies started at No. 6.
DOUG TEWELL:  I played just boring golf there for five holes.  Picked up a birdie at 6 over water there, and then I birdied 7, the par  5.
DAVE SENKO:  Shot sequence on 6?
DOUG TEWELL:   I hit a little sand wedge in there about ten feet and made that.

Then 7, actually put it in the green side bunker in two and put it out about four feet.  Made that for birdie.

Made a silly little bogey at 9 from the right side of the fairway with a 7 iron and left it in the tall grass and chipped it about six feet and missed it.  My only little glitch.

I hit it about ten feet with a pitching wedge on 10.  Made that for birdie.

Missed a 6 footer at 11.

Made a nice little 8 footer at 12.

13, the par  5, I was in the green side bunker in two and blasted about eight feet and made that for birdie.

Almost aced the 15th hole.  Hit a 5 iron that ran over the hole, about 3 1/2 feet behind the hole, four feet, and knocked that in.

And good opportunities at 16, 17.  18, I left it about 20 feet short of the hole.  Kind of ran it by and made a nice two and a half, 3 footer to save par on 18.

I'm getting the ball in very good position to make, you know, if I just putt great.  I'm putting well, if I could just putt great, that's what it's going to take for me to win is to putt great, I think, for anybody to win.
Q.  For the moment you're chasing Dana, and obviously this week is a milestone for him.  What's your take on his feat?
DOUG TEWELL:   Well, it's quite an accomplishment.  You know, to play that many events in a row, my goodness, I'd be broke down right now.  I don't know what he's running on, some kind of synthetic oil or something my oil won't go that for.

Dana loves to play golf.  I've known Dana for a long, long time.  He's been through some tough times in his life, and he has survived them.  He's conquered them and now he's having the time of his life.  I think it's great.  I couldn't be any happier for anybody than I am for Dana Quigley.  Do I want to beat him this week?  Absolutely.  But I'll have dinner with him on Monday night if he's anywhere near me.

I just think it's great what he's done.
Q.  Dana said the lack of wind made scores go down this morning, do you think it will be tougher for guys that off later if the wind picks up?
DOUG TEWELL:   If the wind picks up, yes.  The golf course was a little softer on the greens today than I thought it was going to be, but I'm sure they did that because we had the wind last night.  We get a little heat snap and they can go, the bentgrass can go in a hurry.  But that's okay.

I mean, we're all playing the same, basically the same conditions.  Right now those of us who played the morning are now wanting the wind to come up a little bit and keep those guys in check.  But, I think yesterday was pretty even, except the fact that they played a little rain, which gave them softer, slower surfaces, and then we got the wind.

So, I don't know, I try not to think too much about all that stuff.  I got my pairing and I played my two rounds now and now I've got to get ready to focus on the last two.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT