NCAA WOMEN'S REGIONALS SEMIFINALS & FINALS: GREENSBORO
March 27, 2015
Maegan Conwright
Leticia Romero
Sue Semrau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









COACH SEMRAU:   Credit Arizona State.   Their defense was tough as nails, and we knew it because going to be.   We knew it was going to be a physical game.   Credit our kids for hanging in at the end.   I'm really happy we got some separations to end the half.   I know they are a second‑half team and they had a great second half. 

Q.   By my count, down the stretch, three times they got it to a single‑possession game, and each time you hit a shot in response to that.   Can you explain what it is about you that you rose to that occasion? 
LETICIA ROMERO:   Well, when it comes to those kind of moments, and at end of the game, just don't think.   You just want to help your team to win the game, you know.   And you know, all those games that we have had, it has always been somebody different. 
Today was me shooting the last shot, and I'm sure tomorrow we're going to have a lot of response (ph), I don't know, just having a team like this, you just play, and it's just easy. 

Q.   The last time you guys were in this building, it obviously was not very friendly to you.   You lost to Notre Dame.   But describe what it's like to come back here to an arena that's familiar, a city that's familiar in ACC territory; do you feel like that contributed to your success? 
STUDENT‑ATHLETE:   I mean, last time we came here, we lost to Notre Dame, but you learn a lot from losses.   Coming in now, we learned a lot.   Notre Dame is a team that wins championships, and you know, we are trying to learn how get through winning games and we want to learn how to win championships. 
Now we know what not to do and we feel better prepared coming in now, because them stepping up like that, and us being in a region where nobody in this region has got to the Final Four in such a long time, it's up for grabs.   We're preparing to just, you know, go out and do‑‑ learn from our loss last time and be better this time. 

Q.   For Maegan, could you walk through what happened the last four seconds of the game? 
MAEGAN CONWRIGHT:   It's so funny, because my team makes fun of me because I do this defensive move a lot, and I mean, I didn't really think‑‑ I know that I was recruited for defense and defense is my strong suit.   So when I was looking at her, and I felt like I could go get the steal, so I just did.   I don't know, I wasn't even thinking. 
COACH SEMRAU:   It was awesome being back here in Greensboro.   It's been a home away from home for Florida State, for the ACC, to see all the familiar faces, it was awesome. 

Q.   For Maegan, just the resolve she showed to make that play at the end of the game, especially after a tough sequence, for a fifth‑year senior to make that, how neat was that for you to see? 
COACH SEMRAU:   I think it was her teammates.   At that time‑out, her teammates just rallied around her after she had missed that shot.   I think that's the thing that gave her the kind of confidence that she needed to make that play. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT