CHINA OPEN
October 7, 2017
Peng Shuai
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.   
 Q.  Talk about today's match.  How did you lose at the end?  
PENG SHUAI: I've been playing several semifinals.  We've lost several times.  The semifinal was very difficult for me, not just today, but I couldn't serve as fast as before.  I think my service games could have been better.  My legs were not moving fast, as well.   
But this is the last doubles match of the year for me, so we gave it our all.  We'll start preparing for next year's doubles.   
I think it's better than last year's China Open doubles match.  We will work harder next year.   
 Q.  How is your knee injury?  Was it the reason you couldn't give your all today in the match?  
PENG SHUAI: It had some effect because I couldn't use all my strength.  For three days I've been showing the doctor the situation.  The swelling was not as serious as before.   
It was not just about serving, but the entire speed.  It has some effect.  If I had enough rest, I could do better.   
 Q.  You mentioned previously that you want to continue playing.  You also mentioned you want to play more doubles.  Now you are playing both singles and doubles.  It's quite taxing.  What are your future plans?  How do you balance both and ensure you have enough strength for both singles and doubles?  
PENG SHUAI: It's a difficult choice for me.  At the beginning of the year I left my previous partner Hlavackova, but many friends commented that I ditched her for singles.  That was not the case.  That was not the case, that I wanted to just play singles.  That won't happen in the future.  I won't give up on doubles because I want to play singles.  That won't happen.   
In terms of the schedule, at the beginning of the year we didn't plan to play more than 20 tournaments.  For the second half of the year, if I don't remember wrongly, since Madrid, Roland Garros, then there are five doubles tournaments after Miami, so we played those five doubles tournaments.  We retired in Toronto.  In those three months, we played more doubles tournaments than the rest of the year combined.   
Maybe for next year, I will play more singles.  I will also participate in doubles, but I couldn't choose which tournaments I played because it's related to ranking.  I don't know whether I could participate in those tournaments or not.   
Now for most of the tournaments I can choose to participate.  After I have those choices, I can make a reasonable schedule.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT