CHINA OPEN
October 2, 2017
Peng Shuai
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PENG S./S. Rogers   
7-6, 3-6, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.   
 Q.  Like Wuhan, it's also nearly three hours.  How do you feel?  
PENG SHUAI: I feel very tired.   
 Q.  Could you talk about the match.  7-6 in the first set.  In the second set, you lost many points.  Was it because of your body?  
PENG SHUAI: I think there are a lot of twists and turns.  At first 4-1, then 5-5 in the first set.  In the second set, I think my rhythm was chaotic.  She played better in the second set.  On her service games, she played quite well.   
In the third set, 4-1, then there were a lot of game points.  I tried very hard.  But all of a sudden I felt really very nervous.  I could not play very well.  I felt a little bit afraid to play.   
When it was 5-5, I felt a little bit that I came back to the game, and I shouldn't be so conservative, that I should fight.  So I won the match and was really very happy.   
 Q.  You are a very veteran player.  At the end of the season, everyone is very tired.  Is there a force that supports you that you could stay till the very end of a very difficult match?  
PENG SHUAI: Yes, when I gave my signature, the fans called me sister, and the children call me auntie.  I said, You should call me sister.   
In two months, I will be 32 years old.  But I'm still very happy that I can play tennis.  I have been coughing a lot these days.  I cannot take the medicine for a cough.   
In the second week of the US Open, I took some medicine for my cough.  Also maybe my resistance to viruses was reduced.  Yesterday I saw my doctor.  I could take some medicine to treat myself.   
In Wuhan, no doctor could treat me, and they could not prescribe medicine for me, so I had to wait for when I came back to the Beijing.   
 Q.  You mentioned you had surgery on your back.  Has it felt better?  
PENG SHUAI: I haven't thought about it.  However, it's better than last year.  I am a little bit tired, of course, but I'm really very happy that I could come back and play, no matter whether it's singles or doubles.  As long as I can play and I can fight, I'm very happy.   
Maybe sometimes I can't play as good or as quickly as before, but I would ask myself to fight.  I'm really very happy that I can play tennis again.   
 Q.  You could use your ranking to participate in Zhuhai.  Will you fight for that?  
PENG SHUAI: I lot of people have asked me this question.  I wouldn't have thought I could come this far at the beginning of this year.  I think I will try my best.  Also I cannot control wins or losses.  I made to play match by match.   
It's quite close to that.  However, I haven't fully been accepted, so I will try my best to get into the Zhuhai tournament.   
 Q.  In the next match your opponent will be Monica Niculescu.  Do you have any thoughts about that match?  
PENG SHUAI: I think she has a very strange way of playing.  She plays with a lot of slice.  The rhythm of her game is changing all the time.  I've played her before.  I won some matches and lost some.   
I know she moves very quickly.  She changes her rhythm.  When I played her before, she played a lot of slice.  I think I need to be fully prepared when I play her.   
 Q.  In the singles and doubles, you are fighting all the time.  How will you divide your energy between singles and doubles?  
PENG SHUAI: The answer is, when I play doubles, I will not have any priority or focus.  In women's singles, I think I actually have one more singles than the doubles.  The good thing is sometimes we have a bye in the first round, and we start in the second round.   
I will try my best no matter whether it's singles or doubles.  I think it's okay.  Normally if I lose in singles, then I will play doubles.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT