OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 5, 2016
Trevor Fisher, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What is your take on a bogey-free round that sees you at the top of the leaderboard?  
TREVOR FISHER, JR.: I'm trying to keep the bogeys off the scorecard this week.  I looked at Branden Grace last week, and I think he made like five drops on the whole week, and that's how you win tournaments.  The goal is to keep bogeys off and try and make as many pars as I can, and there are birdie chances out there.  The putter gets hot, we'll sink a few.  So that's the goal.  We'll see if it works for two more days.   
 Q.  Not a change in approach, though, isn't it?  What you tend to do; what you need to do?  
TREVOR FISHER, JR.: It is what you need to do to win tournaments.  You have to try to keep the mistakes definitely off the card.  Things just have to flow.  You need momentum and you have to sink one or two putts here and there, just keeps everything going.   
So two more days, yeah, I've got a lot of hard work ahead of me.  I put my head down and obviously keep working hard.  You've got Ernie Els there, Alvaro Quiros there, a lot of good players.  It's not going to be easy and nobody is going to give it to me, so I know what I have to do.   
 Q.  How good is it to see Ernie up there and potentially play alongside?  
TREVOR FISHER, JR.: Yeah, it's lovely.  It would be great if I could play with him tomorrow.  Otherwise I'll try to push for Sunday.  I'll tell him to shoot 66 and I'll shoot 66 and let's see what happens.  It's going to be fun.  I'm looking forward to the challenge.   
 Q.  How were conditions compared to yesterday?  
TREVOR FISHER, JR.: There are a few tough holes out there.  I think the wind did switch, like No. 1 was sort of straight into off the left, which is quite good.  I had a good drive, 6-iron and made a birdie there.   
There were a few holes downwind.  The third was downwind.  I never took advantage of that, made a par there.  I don't think I birdied a par 5 today, so I was happy with 4-under.  Maybe we can make a few birdies tomorrow.   
 Q.  Your experience at being a winner on The European Tour, does it make you all the more comfortable in this position?  
TREVOR FISHER, JR.: You know, obviously it's nice to know that you've won, but it's a total new circumstance out here and environment, and I think there's a lot more pressure, and obviously got the best players in the world here.   
So got to handle yourself well and just strive to be better each time you play.  It's definitely a goal for me what I'm trying to achieve.  Yeah, just got to keep working.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT