OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 4, 2016
Trevor Fisher, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TREVOR FISHER, JR.: I played solid today.  Felt like I putted well.  The course is in amazing condition, so if you've got the flat stick rolling nicely, you can get a nice score going around here.  There's a few holes that you've got to be careful of, but I played pretty nicely.  Overall pretty chuffed.
Q. Form on the greens the most satisfying element?
TREVOR FISHER, JR.: Yeah, the greens are rolling amazing.  Just got to get the ball rolling and it just keeps its line.  They are really, really good.  I changed putters again this week, to the putter that I won the African Open with, maybe can bring a bit of luck back this week.  Just feel a bit more comfortable on the greens.  I put the old putter back in my bag again.  It's brought back memories which is good for me and the stroke feels good with it.  Just got to keep the same rhythm throughout the rest of the week, and, yeah, let's see what happens.
Q. "Change putter again" suggests that's a regular occurrence and you can't settle.
TREVOR FISHER, JR.: It is, definitely.  I can go to the course with four putters sometimes.  That's just the way it is for me.  If I feel uncomfortable, then I just change putters, and I might go back to that same putter, maybe after a week or two.  That's just how I've been.  I've always been like that.  If I don't like the way it lines up, and sometimes it changes, different grass.
Last week put me off a bit.  The greens were quite tough last week.  I was putting pretty good up to there, and then last week threw me off with the putter but needed to get a new one in the bag this week.
Q. In wider terms, are you okay with your game, satisfied with it generally?
TREVOR FISHER, JR.: It's been okay.  It's been nothing special.  Since Abu Dhabi, it's been pretty much of a fight.  Haven't found too much form yet.  But I feel like I found a bit of form from today, just trying to slow it up a little bit, get a little bit tense and a bit too quick sometimes.  I just tried to smooth it up a bit and walk slower and do everything slower, which I need to do.  I get a bit quick sometimes, and you have to remind yourself to walk slow.
Yeah, let's see what we can do, just keep up the same rhythm and see what happens.
Q. Is this season different, knowing the success of last year, being able to plan a full 2016?
TREVOR FISHER, JR.: It is nice.  Definitely planned a nice 2016 for me.  The schedule is a bit different this year.  It's going to be a lot of up-and-down travelling east to west and north to south.  I'm going to try to do three weeks on and off.
Yeah, I learnt a lot last year on that.  Hopefully puts me in good stead for this year.  We'll see how it goes.  It's never easy with all the travelling.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT