PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 16, 2015
Trevor Fisher, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Really flowing sweetly and then it ended up good, but not probably as good as you want?  
TREVOR FISHER, JR.: Yeah, it started -- I started great again today, felt very comfortable.  Birdied the tenth hole to get to 6-under.  Then a three-putt on -- is 11 or 12 or my first, second, third hole?  The third hole of my round or the third hole of the back nine.  I had a 3-putt there, made a silly bogey.   
Missed a short putt on the fourth hole again.   
And then on the par-5, I had a great drive.  I had a perfect shot in there, a little bit into the wind.  For some reason (indiscernible) and I hit it straight into the lip of the bunker.  It was dead and I made a great six, sink a long putt for 6, which is good.   
Then just parred my way in, which is all right.  Also I never gave myself any chances on the back nine.   
 Q.  It's a all down to you, you take it on the chin?  It's not a case of the course getting back at you?  
TREVOR FISHER, JR.: No.  The greens obviously were a little bit slower.  It's same for everyone and you've got to give yourself good chances and hit some good putts.  Some of them will miss and some will go in.  Happy with my game and see what we can do tomorrow.   
 Q.  You should be.  I take it there's a lot of confidence from making so many opportunities?  
TREVOR FISHER, JR.: My irons have been very good and I've driven the ball quite well.  So do that tomorrow and sink a few putts and we might have a chance.   
 Q.  What are your thoughts on the shotgun start, the very early start?  Considering your position, you'd normally have a lie in on a Saturday?  
TREVOR FISHER, JR.: Yeah, sure.  Look, it would be nice for us to finish two rounds.  The weather doesn't look good for tomorrow and Sunday.  If we can't finish, I'm not sure.  Maybe it blows over.  Let's see what happens.  Maybe the guy is wrong, the weather guy.  That will be nice to finish three rounds.   
Shotgun start is going to be interesting.  Everyone is going to be warming up at the same time.  Let's see what we can do tomorrow.   
 Q.  One other thing, what are your thoughts on the Race to Dubai given your current position?  
TREVOR FISHER, JR.: Look, I mean, I think I should get into Turkey.  Obviously, you do well in Turkey, you jump up quite a bit.  And then obviously you get into China, which would be nice.  Look, I am trying.  It's my first year out here, so it will obviously be a big bonus if I can get into these last few events.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT