EVIAN MASTERS PRESENTED BY SOCIETE GENERALE
July 22, 2011
Miki Saiki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Miki Saiki into the interview room. Congratulations on your rounds today. Can you just take me through your round a little bit and what went well for you out there.  
 MIKI SAIKI: (Through translation.) From yesterday I was hitting the ball really well, and it kind of continued on to today.  
 I was able to hit well and also putt well earlier in the round. I kind of struggled in the end, but all in all, it was a good day.  
 MODERATOR: Yesterday there was a lot of rain. How did you find the course today? Were the scoring conditions pretty good that you could shoot a good round like you did?   
 MIKI SAIKI: (Through translation.) Yesterday obviously was a day of a lot rain and you didn't know what you were going to get.  
 Today you had no wind. The greens were consistent with the rolling. So it was all in all a great day.   
 MODERATOR: Just talk about your feelings of being at the top of the leaderboard after the second round, and what are you looking forward to this weekend.   
 MIKI SAIKI: (Through translation.) Obviously it's still early. I think there will be some players that are going to finish probably better score than mine.   
 But, you know, you don't have to think about that now. You just go into the weekend and do your best.  
 MODERATOR: Any questions in English?   
  
  Q. You're obviously a very good putter. You put that's your favorite club. How much putting practice do you do? Do you stay with the same putter?   
 MIKI SAIKI: (Through translation.) You know, it's not a set time that I have for practice, but I usually practice about a six-footer a lot.   
 Since I've become a pro I haven't changed my putter.   
  
  Q. Could you just talk about your background, how you got involved in golf, and maybe some hobbies.   
 MIKI SAIKI: (Through translation.) My father played golf, and so I kind of naturally started playing.   
 My hobbies are shopping.   
  
  Q. Are you married? Single? Children? Tell us a bit more about yourself. You're 24 and you come from Hiroshima?  
 MIKI SAIKI: Yeah.  
  
  Q. And who are your favorite golfers?   
 MIKI SAIKI: (No audible response.)   
  
  Q. A lot of Asian players say that their hobby is shopping, but what do you shop for apart from clothes?   
 MIKI SAIKI: (Through translation.) Accessories. Necklace, earrings. Accessories.  
  
  Q. How many earrings do you have?   
 MIKI SAIKI: (Through translation.) Every trip, I guess tournament, I bring about 50 different pairs.   
  
  Q. A collector of earrings.   
 MIKI SAIKI: (Through translation.) I just like it.   
 MODERATOR: Thank you very much.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT