AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 9, 2021
Min Woo Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Exciting week for you to be here for the AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am.  Is this the realization of a boyhood dream, playing in your first PGA TOUR event?
 MIN WOO LEE:   Yeah, it's amazing to obviously start at Pebble Beach.  Really excited to play this week.  Yeah, it's a dream come true to get a start on the PGA TOUR and hopefully I capitalize on it.
 Q. Making your TOUR debut here.  It doesn't really get any better doing it at such an iconic venue, does it?  And what memories do you have of Pebble Beach that stick out for you?
 MIN WOO LEE:   Yeah, it's amazing to be here.  I played the U.S. Amateur here and it is my second time here but it's still amazing.  I really don't know the course too much, so it's, just to be back is awesome and I played that back nine today and it's something special.
 Q. You're still fairly new in your professional career.  Being here this week and also in the WGC event at Concession later this month, what do these opportunities mean to you?
 MIN WOO LEE:   Yeah, these opportunities are huge.  They're the biggest tournaments I've played, and yeah, I'm really excited to play them.  It's a very good opportunity to play those events, and as a 22-year-old you don't really get too much opportunities like this, so hopefully I play well.
 Q. You've enjoyed some success in the United States where you won the U.S. Juniors in 2016.  Do you have any recollection of winning back then, if it had given any inkling that you would one day be playing an event on the PGA TOUR?
 MIN WOO LEE:   Yeah, of course it helps to win the biggest junior tournament in the world and did, it was a special time.  I felt really good, on top of my game, and to play against the best juniors in the world.  I know pro life is a bit different to amateur life, but it's nice to be here.  It was a journey from there to here, so it's definitely a good thing to look back on.
 Q. Your sister Minjee has obviously enjoyed great success on the LPGA.  Has she offered you any words of encouragement ahead of the tournament this week?  And have her achievements provided you with the motivation that you too could be successful on the PGA TOUR?
 MIN WOO LEE:   Yeah, it is very nice to, we're the, I think, the only brother and sister to win U.S. Junior, so to have maybe a PGA TOUR tournament win and obviously she's won a few times, so that would be a really good achievement for our family.  But it's awesome to have a sister that plays at such a high level and a frequent winner out there, so hopefully I can follow in her footsteps, but, yeah, it's special.
 Q. The Australians on TOUR have enjoyed some great wins over the past years with Cameron Smith, Adam Scott, Marc Leishman winning over here.  Have you had the opportunity to tap on their thoughts about what would be the best route for someone like you to get your self to America and competing on the PGA TOUR?
 MIN WOO LEE:   Yeah, I don't really speak to those guys, I spoke to Jason today and, yeah, he gave me a few words of wisdom and a bit of experience from himself and, yeah, obviously the European way, same as Adam Scott, the European way is a really good place to start and come over here, just because you play different courses and different styles of golf, so it's, yeah, a very good place to start and hopefully I can come over here.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT