ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS SCOTTISH OPEN
October 1, 2020
Min Woo Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Normally when you open a window in Perth it might be 40 degrees centigrade.  When you open it up and it's 40 degrees Fahrenheit, what's it like to go play golf?
 MIN WOO LEE:   Yeah, it's not the funnest thing to wake up to, but it's not too bad.  Everyone has to play through it, so it's not too bad.  You just have to have four layers on.
 Q. How important was your caddie out there?
 MIN WOO LEE:   Yeah, caddying is a tough job without the wind and rain, and you need him -- I definitely need him when the conditions are up there.  Yeah, it's important.
 Q. Given the start, you didn't do too bad today.  You must be pleased with the score you posted.
 MIN WOO LEE:   Yeah, I'm pretty happy.  Yeah, I'm pretty happy.  It's one of my lowest rounds since the bubble, and especially to do it at the tournament, a Rolex Series event, and with the rain and wind there, it's pretty nice to shoot under par.
 Q. When you won in Victoria, was it on a Sand Belt course?  Was it something similar?  Do you like playing this challenge?
 MIN WOO LEE:   Yeah, it was very similar.  When I drove in, it looked the same, the colour, a little brown grass and a little wispy.  I had really good vibes practising.  I thought it would suit my game.
 Q. Any shots out there you're particularly pleased with?
 MIN WOO LEE:   Yeah, there was a few putts that went in that were pretty long, and normally you'd be happy with a tap-in or close.  Today everything really went close to the hole.  I did something a little different in my putting, and it's worked out.  I went back to what I was doing when I was an amateur, and it was nice.  Hopefully I can do more of that.
 Q. There was a putt you had that you thought might go in and didn't quite go in.  Tell us about the distance.  You saw it tracking, you thought it was there?
 MIN WOO LEE:   Yeah, it was probably a quadruple or triple breaker.  It was left to right, right to left, then went back to left, then back to the right.  It was about 45 feet, and I hit it solid, maybe like two, three feet past and tracking dead center, hit the pin, bounced out.  So there's a lesson learned.  You learn something every day.  I'm going to tend it or take the pin out from now on.
 Q. You're kind of an all-weather player now, aren't you?
 MIN WOO LEE:   Yeah, the Vic Open was pretty windy.  It was 40, 50 K, so if it blows like that it might be to my advantage.  But yeah, I like to call myself that.
 Q. 66 this morning in difficult conditions; happy with that?
 MIN WOO LEE:   Yeah, really pleased.  Especially at this event on a Rolex Series and tough conditions.  Really pleased.
 Q. What was your mood this morning when you woke up and arrived at the course, it was pouring rain, it was dark and windy?
 MIN WOO LEE:   It's actually funny, woke up feeling not too good, didn't have eight hours' sleep, just under.  Came out, drove here.  It was like 10 minutes away.  And then I don't have my lanyard to get in, so I am struggling to get a pass.  It's the first person, I left the card so they have to heat it up.  That took like 10, 15 minutes, so I'm already 10 minutes late for my normal warm-up time, and then I ran to my caddie in the bag store, and I've dropped my phone.  So I've dropped my phone, and I'm like, where's my phone, I normally listen to music before I play.  So my phone is gone and now my caddie has gone to get some balls back in my car, and comes back, so I'm already late, I'm already late, and I have to get my phone, someone brought my phone into the championship office and got it, and I was like -- I was a bit stressed.  But it was really cool.  I didn't know how it would turn out, but low expectations, it was nice.
 Q. Perfect preparation for a 66.
 MIN WOO LEE:   Yeah, exactly.
 Q. Do the same thing --
 MIN WOO LEE:   Yeah, I'll try and do that.  Yeah, it wasn't ideal, but sometimes it works out that way.
 Q. How different is the course setup from last year?
 MIN WOO LEE:   I didn't play last year.  This is my second Rolex Series event.  I think last year I played -- people were telling me there was no wind, there was not much in the course's defense and low scoring.
 Q. 22-under.
 MIN WOO LEE:   Exactly.  So yeah, today it was playing -- it was not too fun early on.  It was raining and drizzling for an hour and a half, and then it got much better.
 Q. What do you expect the scoring to be?  The weather is better this afternoon, it'll be good tomorrow but then Saturday and Sunday again the rain and wind will return.
 MIN WOO LEE:   Yeah, like I said, everyone is facing the conditions, so it's not like if you're early on -- yeah, it's still going to be the same.  The scoring, I did play very good.  I holed lots of putts and I hit a lot of good shots.  I didn't miss too many shots.  I did play very good, and if I shoot 3- or 4-under every day -- if you shoot under par for whatever round here, it's going to be pretty good in this wind.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT