NCAA WOMEN'S 1ST & 2ND ROUNDS: IOWA CITY
March 22, 2015
Katie Meier
Adrienne Motley
Jessica Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









COACH MEIER:   Of course, huge congrats to Iowa.   That was just‑‑ that second half, their offensive performance was incredible.   It was the team destined to go to the Sweet16 the way they were playing.   At one point I think they were 9‑for‑11 to start the half and it was 80‑something percent.   They ended up being 75 percent in the half and 60 percent from the three, and destiny just started following at halftime.   That's the only thing they did wrong, missed a couple free throws.   They were really moving the ball and doing a great job. 
I think the key to the game, we cut it to six there and had Samantha Logic miss a free throw and Doolittle came and got the free throw and then hit a jumper in our face.   And that's a huge basically four‑point swing there in a six‑point game and from that point on I think we just kind of broke.   We were holding steady and playing tough.
I told my team, we're quite young and they have got some great experience, and I think that showed, and that the mental toughness, they were just sharper than us in key moments, key plays.   We did something that wasn't really smart, like get a rebound and throw it right to Iowa and they never did something that wasn't really smart in the last ten minutes of that basketball game. 
So we are going to learn from that, because I made Jessica stay out there and watch that celebration.   I want us to be a Sweet16 team and I want us to know what it feels like.   We're not quite ready, but we've got to get mentally tougher, and when we do, we're going to be celebrating, as well. 
But I could not have more respect; I'm joyful for Lisa Bluder and her staff, because I know how they operate and I see them recruiting; I know what class they operate with.   I know those kids work hard.   Those seniors on that team came here with a dream and I think they can go a long way.
If this was going to happen and we were going to lose, at least I have the utmost respect for the program that we lost to and I'm really happy for them and I wish them the best of luck. 

Q.   Adrienne, did Bethany Doolittle's performance surprise you guys?   Did she do some things you maybe just didn't expect? 
ADRIENNE MOTLEY:   No, I don't think we were surprised.   We know that that team is full of great players and she just had a great performance.   Looked like she had a double‑double, and she played like a DivisionI basketball player that's trying to make it to the Sweet16. 
So I definitely have to give my hat off to her and the rest of the team but as far as your question, no, I don't think ‑‑ it wasn't surprising at all.   She's a great player. 

Q.   I just wanted to get your thoughts on what Coach said, that you stood there and watched that celebration.   What was that moment like for you to see Iowa celebrate and how do you think it's going to help your team that you did that? 
JESSICA THOMAS:   Well, I mean, it hurt a little bit but somebody had to lose today.   But like Coach said, we have a lot of respect for this team.   Just watching that, and coming back next year, putting in motivation and just put more work in and be ready to be a Sweet16 team, as well. 

Q.   Can you talk about Iowa‑‑
COACH MEIER:   Yeah, center, our fives, our Doolittle assignment was left center and that was the choice that we had to make because of their perimeter talent.   We just didn't do as good of a job as we should have.   And when you play Iowa, you have to break some of your basic fundamental defensive habits.   You haven't over‑help and in the first half we over‑helped and Doolittle was recipient of dump‑offs and cleanups on the back side. 
So then we tried not to help off of her but basically three of them get a couple threes.   But it's hard to break some habits and stuff that our fives have been doing all year, and we tried to do it in one day in, one practice.   But I think that her offensive rebounding is something that's no excuse for; that wasn't over‑help.   That was just, we didn't put a body on her on the free throw line.   And her then her under sub (ph) shot was something we wanted to take away.   So half of her points you can put on me and the other half we didn't execute the game plan. 

Q.   Iowa was 18‑0 at home this season.   Could you talk about the atmosphere today and did that factor in at all?   How did your team handle this environment?
COACH MEIER:   I would like to invite the entire Iowa fans to come to a home game at Miami.   It's really nice and warm.   And I'll give them all free tickets and I'd love them to come cheer for us, because it is a huge factor, it's an amazing impact on the game. 
I told the refs before the game that I heard a rumor that when you get an NCAA bid and you get on someone else's home court that they give you an extra time‑out.   So they went and checked the book, but that's not true (laughter) but I needed one.   I ran out of time‑outs.   The crowd had a lot to do with having to run out of time‑outs because they have tremendous fuel. 
It's really warm, I mentioned; nice weather.   (Laughter).

Q.   I wanted to get your thoughts on that stretch without Mot when she was on the bench with the four fouls, how difficult was that? 
COACH MEIER:   Difficult.   I'm going to live with that one for a while.   It was difficult, and when I went to go put her back in, it was a defensive possession, so then I had to take her‑‑ I didn't want her to go back in on defensive possession.   So I was trying to get her in where we had the ball in offense, and I probably wasted maybe two offensive possessions going that because it's not smart to put her in when you're on defense. 
But we unraveled a little bit.   It really was, I think the back‑breaking play that made us lose our composure was that offensive rebound by Doolittle on that little shot when we had done everything in the world to cut that game back to six.   Mot was out when we were cutting it, so, you know, I could have put her back in that moment, would have been my decision.

Q.   You were talking about the crowd.   It's a hostile crowd but is it still good for kids to play in front of a big crowd even though it was the other team's crowd? 
COACH MEIER:   That's the thing; unfortunately, the NCAA, I think I've played in a neutral court once.   Every time we get a draw at Miami, we've been at Gonzaga, we've been here; it's definitely a disadvantage for the team. 
But I think more of a disadvantage is to play in an empty stadium and I'm a big fan of the first round‑‑ they earned it.   Iowa earned it.   They had a great season.   If I want to cry in my soup, I've got to make my team better and we have to get a Top‑4 seed.   And that's what I need to do instead of complaining about getting a disadvantage on someone's away court. 
But I do think that extra time‑out rule might be something we should propose (laughter).   But they earned it and I have no regrets.   We should have won more games in the regular season and we wouldn't have been in this position.
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT