BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 8, 2006
Mike Brey
Colin Falls
Chris Quinn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 COACH MIKE BREY:  They're a very good, very poised basketball team.  I thought we gave up second shots at key times.  That really hurt us. 
 Gave ourselves a chance to win, but put-backs by them hurt us.  We finished the first half so well and we started the second half just poorly, and then you're digging out of a hole. 
 But I give Georgetown credit.  They're older and they played together for a while.  They don't get rattled.  They just methodically played. 
 Q.  Can you talk about defensively in the second half, (inaudible). 
 COACH MIKE BREY:  Well, you know, I love the fact that it was 41% field goal percentage defense.  I mean, overall, they got into a better rhythm against the zone in the second half.  But the key possessions, I thought, we forced the right shot.  They also hit two bombs at the end of shot clocks.  We were in man one possession, we were in zone one.  I think I can live with those.  I mean, they hit big ones. 
 Even though their rhythm may have been better against our zone, I thought the first shot was missing for the most part.  It was the second shot that hurt us.  I thought we defended -- the shot that Bowman made was a tough shot.  I mean, Torin rode him kind of into the cheerleaders and he hit a lefty runner.  I mean, that's just a talented play.  We can't do much better there. 
 Q.  Coach, do you feel (inaudible) when you play teams? 
 COACH MIKE BREY:  Not really.  I think for us we tried to flush all that when we went through that stretch in the first half of the BIG EAST. 
 I mean, I think for us, I've never wanted that to be an excuse or whatever.  I will say this:  People have hit some big shots on us, and tough shots.  Those two threes were bombs.  Maybe the karma is a little different, I don't know. 
 But I think it's kind of petty if you fall into that trap, and they haven't.  They've been resilient and not used that as an excuse. 
 Q.  Colin, just talk about how tough it was. 
 COLIN FALLS:  Yeah, I mean, I got out in transition the first probably three or four plays of the game.  Chris found me, and I made some shots.  But they put the clamps down on D, they were showing on all screens.  It made it difficult to get open looks. 
 Q.  When you got up 11-0, was it a matter of them settling into their game?  Did you notice a specific change? 
 COACH MIKE BREY:  I think they're a good team.  They're going to make a run at us.  I was happy the start we got off to.  I never thought, you know, we were going to hold -- I thought it was going to be game situations and get down to it because they're too experienced a group.  Second shots helped them get into the rhythm in both halves. 
 Q.  Chris, could you talk about the disappointment.  You guys came in here, I thought, with a lot of confidence.  Talk about not getting it done. 
 CHRIS QUINN:  Yeah, you know, we talked a lot about our last two games kind of being part of the BIG EAST tournament at Providence and versus DePaul.  In order for us to be here, we had to win those games.  We came off those two games very confident, coming in here. 
 You know, Georgetown played great.  I think they really, you know, stayed with their game plan and how they want to play, you know, even when we got off to a great start. 
 Q.  You talked a lot about playing loosely.  Did you feel like you guys did that?  It seemed like you were tight in spots. 
 CHRIS QUINN:  Maybe in spots.  I think offensively we played pretty loosely, I think.  Forced them to take some tough shots on the defensive end.  I think we just needed to do a better job of being quicker to the ball and getting the loose balls and rebounds. 
 Q.  Mike, real quickly, can you talk about Rob Kurz. 
 COACH MIKE BREY:  I thought Rob has grown into a BIG EAST forward, you know, over the last month.  Certainly that's something we really want to build on.  He's been coming.  Really feel good about him.  Got to get him as much experience in this postseason as possible because he's coming back as a junior. 
 I think he really can walk out of here certainly disappointed about losing, but I'm going to grab him in the hotel.  He has arrived as a BIG EAST forward. 
 Q.  Mike, what did you say to the guys? 
 COACH MIKE BREY:  Well, I mean, I told them, I said, you know, great effort.  Again, but second shots cost us.  That's, you know, hurt us at times.  Speed to the ball.  We wouldn't win the 40-yard dash lining up with those guys.  We tried to pack it in a little bit where we wouldn't have to chase it down as much.  For the most part, we did a pretty good job.  But at key times, that really hurt us. 
 I said, Before we play again next week - because we will play again next week - we're going to work on that and we're going to get back and practice, and I want us to take advantage of getting to still play basketball, you know, certainly for some old guys but our young guys, too. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT