UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 24, 2015
Chris Peterson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Washington - 14  Stanford - 31
   

COACH PETERSON: Tough game.  It was a good football team we played.  They executed at a very high level in all three phases.  We can't get anything going in the first half offensively, and it just puts too much stress on everybody else.  It makes it a very, very hard game.  Second half got a little something going, but they're a good team that can answer right away, which they did.  Put us back on our heels. 
So, yeah, good football team.  Down the road, we'll be a good football team, but not tonight.
Q. (No microphone)?
COACH PETERSON: You know, first half was rough in terms of the game is different from practice.  The second half kind of settled in a little bit.  You can see you can throw the ball, make good throws.  I was really proud of him, and glad we left him in there to keep slinging it.  Made some good decisions.
We'll analyze the tape and see what exactly he could have done a little better, but it usually starts up front and kind of goes quickly with the quarterback.
Q. Do you think there is going to be a change?
COACH PETERSON: No, wanted to give a little more time and just see how it goes.  We had five runs and they worked.  Left him in a little bit.  He got a chance to throw a couple good balls.
Q. How limited were you in terms of what you felt you could call offensively with him?
COACH PETERSON: Well, I think he knows what he's doing, but I think the first game when you're out there against -- it's a good defense.  So we want to be fair to him and not just -- we don't want to put our defense in a real bad situation and have an untimely turnover or anything like that.  So you're kind of playing that cat and mouse game a little bit.
Q. This is just a brutal stretch of games.  You've got to have good quarterback play, and you've got young guys back there.  Is there anything you can do except time?
COACH PETERSON: Well, no.  I mean, if they keep working hard, keep practicing.  It's not just quarterbacks.  You're right.  We do have to have good quarterback play and we will get good quarterback play.  We get good quarterback play.  We just need to be more consistent.
But we've got a young front too.  That definitely can lead to some quarterback issues.  I think the O-line is doing a decent job of pass blocking.  Excuse me, run blocking.  I think they're doing some good jobs.  We're still a little inconsistent there.  At times we come off and we're physical, you can hear it, you can feel it.  We keep guys covered up, and you see Myles finding the creases, but I think we make some strides in our pass protection.
Q. How tough was it having some guys banged up on defense, linebackers and secondary?
COACH PETERSON: It's going to be tough even when you've got all your guys.  Then you come in here a little bit shorthanded.  But I think you probably talk to every coach in the country, and everybody's going to say the same thing.  I mean, it's a hard game.  You're Game 7 into it, and you're not going to have all your guys.  A lot of guys you do have are playing banged up and sore, and that's just how it goes.
Q. Is there a concern as you go through this schedule at this point where you guys are (No microphone) getting beaten and discouraged?
COACH PETERSON: I think you've always got to pay attention to that as a coach.  I don't care if they're young or old.  We do play a brutal, tough schedule.  So all we can really worry about is are we getting better?  And you see flashes.  It's just got to be more consistent.  I know this.  I know this crew is going to be good.
I can't put the time line on it, but I know it.  Part of the deal is we've got to analyze it.  We don't have time to feel sorry for ourselves, and we have to play better next week.
Q. When you look at Stanford, that was a physically impressive team.  33 seniors, and 13 (No microphone), do you almost look at what those stats are going to look like in a couple years?
COACH PETERSON: I've said this:  Stanford builds it like you'd like to build it.  They've got big, physical guys, they've got old guys, and some of the old guys even on the defensive side they're fairly new faces to the roster, but I think they've played.  There's enough guys that have played out there that there's a good blend there, and they play hard.  So I think Coach Shaw does a good job of building a program how it feed needs to be built.
Q. You've seen McCaffrey on film.  In person was it even more impressive?
COACH PETERSON: That's a good question.  The only reason I say that is because he's so impressive on tape.  But I'd say as good as advertised, for sure.  He has such quick feet.  He's one of those guys that just never crosses his feet over.  Those guys are kind of rare, but they're very quick.
So he always plays with great balance.  I think what I think that makes him is a very hard guy to tackle.  He's not going to go down unless you tackle him.  He's so patient with his blocks.  You can see when he returns kicks.  Most kickoff return guys just try to get the ball and hit it as hard as they can.  You can see him.  He's patient on kickoff return.  He's a really good player.
Q. When you came out in the second half and Marched right down and scored, was that the key point in the game when they came back and matched it?
COACH PETERSON: That was hard.  I think we could have gotten the ball back without a touchdown.  I think our guys would have felt better about things.  But good football team's are going to answer.
Q. Did you pretty much (No microphone) yesterday?
COACH PETERSON: We had our mind made up coming in today.  Last couple days we were kind of still -- he didn't take a lot of reps during the week.  He didn't throw the ball during the week.  K.J. and Jeff took the majority.  So we just felt it was important to go that direction.
Q. (No microphone) a senior in a game like this?  Do you maybe think a little bit differently?
COACH PETERSON: Yeah, that's a hard question for me to answer.  Yeah, I don't know.  I still think he'd be pretty dialed in, but I think it's important for K.J. to get some reps.  I really do.  I think those will pay off down the road.  You can't just have one of anything in this game.  You just can't.  Guys got to be ready to play.
Q. Is there much of a hope that Jake might be back next week?
COACH PETERSON: Oh, yeah.  I think there is a big hope.
Q. (No microphone)?
COACH PETERSON: I think Kevin's fine.  I think he just banged his leg.  He's been a little beat up as well.  I don't think it's anything new.
Q. Tough loss (No microphone)?
COACH PETERSON: Well, yeah, we'll put the tape on and we'll find signs of encouragement.  Bottom line is these guys get it.  There is a scoreboard there for a reason.  When that doesn't come out in our favor, they feel it.  We all feel it.
The only way to get rid of that feeling is to go out and play better and get a win.  I mean, that's the bottom line.  So they've been a pretty resilient group.  They have I'm encouraged they're going to show up for work tomorrow and we'll play better and get better next Saturday.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT