INTERNATIONAL TENNIS HALL OF FAME INDUCTION CEREMONY
July 14, 2012
Manuel Orantes
Stan Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  STAN SMITH:   It was an honor when Manolo Orantes asked me to present him today.   We all know Spain has had some great players.   The first great players was the 1984 Hall of Famer Manolo Santana.   Following him about 10 years later was today's inductee, Manolo Orantes, sometimes referred to as Manolito, little Manolo.   
Like today's great left‑handed Spanish player, Rafa, what's his name, Nadal, it was not much fun to play against him, particularly on clay.   The lethal forehand, solid backhand, tenacious all‑court game created a nightmare for anybody playing him.   
But actually he was not only a great player but also a wonderful sportsman on the court.   You could beat him, or he could beat you, but there would be a smile on his face and a genuinely great attitude on the court.   
He was a force to be reckoned with from the late 1960s through the early 1980s.   He reached No. 2 in the world August 23, 1973, and was ranked in the year‑end world top 10 with four years, with two of those years being in the top five.   He captured 33 singles titles and 22 doubles titles.   
In the 1975 Open, he decisively beat the defending champion Jimmy Connors.   This was an incredible win because the night before he was in an epic battle from Guillermo Vilas which lasted almost till midnight.   This epic battle where Manolo was down two sets to one, 5‑0, 40‑15 in the fourth set, all together he forced off five match points, and it's considered to be one of the great US Open era's matches, not to mention great comebacks.   
In Barcelona, he won three singles, and two doubles titles.   In 1975, he won eight out of 13 finals.   In 1976, seven out of 13 finals.   He also won the WCT final in 1971.   
He has a long and distinguished Davis Cup career, winning 39, losing 19 in singles, 21‑8 in doubles.   He was team captain of the Spanish team from 1987 to 1992, and he received the Davis Cup Award For Excellence in 2009.   He also has the distinction of becoming the first unseeded player to win the Orange Bowl junior title when he was 18 years old.   
He opened a tennis academy in Spain where some of the most promising young players have come to train, including Alex Corretja, Arantxa Sanchez‑Vicario, Conchita Martinez, Alberto Berasategui, and Albert Costa.   I remember him across the net as a great competitor, a wonderful sportsman and a man who really loved the game.   
It is my honor to welcome Manolo Orantes into the 2012 Hall of Fame class.   
MANUEL ORANTES:   First of all, thank you very much to be here.   I asked Stan Smith to be my inductor because I remember Wimbledon '72 because in the semifinal I lost to Nastase.   Then I saw the final he play, an unbelievable match, he won in five sets, and is a match I always remember all my life.   Thank you, Stan.   
Well, thank you very much for your recognition.   Tennis has given me many things in my life.   First I did enjoy a fantastic career.   Second, I'm having the privilege of being here today.   
First of all, I would like to thank my club in Barcelona because without their help I would never be able to have a professional career.   
I also would like to thank the people that have supported me during my whole career.   My whole life has been about tennis, first as a player, and after as an instructor.   
Thanks to the tennis, I have the chance to meet a wonderful person, played with great players, and make good friends.   Has also allowed me to fulfill many of my dreams.   
I dreamed of being a tennis player and I achieve it.   I dreamed of being one of the best, and I think I achieve it.   I dreamed to win a Grand Slam, and I won the US Open, which I remember, as Stan said, the second week three matches I played against Ilie Nastase, Guillermo Vilas, and Jimmy Connors.   Best three matches in my life.   
I also dream to be inducted to the Hall of Fame.   Thanks to you, today I can say that this dream is true.   Thank you very much.   
Finally I want to thank my family, my wife Rosa, my son Paul, and my nephews, my friends Dean and Bobby, that they're here with me.   Thank you very much.   I really enjoy this day.   This is going to be one of my special days in my life.   Thank you very much.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT