NL DIVISION SERIES: METS v DIAMONDBACKS
October 8, 1999
Al Leiter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Beating the Braves 9-2; then shutting out the The Reds, another money game, do you
look at it like you are on a roll, is this -- you are peaking at this point?
 
 AL LEITER: I hope some it is a good time to peak if that is the case. Obviously my last
couple have been good starts and I am just hoping to do the same thing as far as my
mindset and preparation for tomorrow's game. Just go about it. That is what I think I have
been able to do as far as some of the bigger games of my career. I eliminate some of
distractions, worry about making pitches. Did that against Atlanta and certainly in
Cincinnati I did that again. 
 
Q. What do you look for tonight, chart the pitches; you watch tendencies --
 
 AL LEITER: Yes, we have a scouting system basically does a lot of video. We have a
video room that not only tapes our pitchers but also pitchers throughout the league that
have faced the Diamondbacks. Particularly for me would be to see a bunch of lefthanders
and basically the last several weeks of the season they put together some footage of
whoever the pitcher was, Glavine, Scott Karl, right on down the line. You kind of put
together what they are doing and then you think about what you have seen as far as the
last couple of games in Arizona and what you have done in the past and put together as to
what you want to do to get these guys out. I think games and series you really watch out
for guys that you want to stay away from. I know a lot was said about us Chipper against
the Braves series, obviously backfired in Atlanta because he got a lot of key hits. But
you think about guys that when it is a time when the runner is in scoring position who is
going to hurt you, you want to make sure certain guys don't hurt you and I haven't decide
who that guy or two is going to be yet. But you know, you just you are careful with it. I
know last game Pokey Reese had hit me well and also Greg Vaughn I said if there is a
situation where I don't have to pitch them I will walk them and face the next guy. 
 
Q. You grew up a Met fan; what do you expect the atmosphere to be like?
 
 AL LEITER: I expect it to be crazy and obviously very supportive for us and hopefully
Daal and the rest of the Diamondbacks will feel what a fanatical Met fan is like. We felt
it during the Braves series even though we lost two or three here, it was very much like
playoff atmosphere. I would expect it to be like that and hopefully more. 
 
Q. I understand you gave Matt Mantei his nickname, how that came about. What do you
think of him as a pitcher?
 
 AL LEITER: Well, obviously you know what he looks like and he has got the little spiked
haircut. One day he came in with it like partially bleached I guess before everybody
started bleaching it. I just looked at him. I saw Vanilla in him. I said you look like
Vanilla Ice. No. No. Leave me alone. I used to call him Vanilla Ice; not Iceman; Vanilla
Ice. Call him Vanilla. Whatever I guess they took off here somebody in Florida started
playing the song, and good kid, good guy. I guess it works for him. Not quite the same as
Hoffman with the Hells Bells or whatever that is in San Diego, but I am sure it pumps him
up. 
 
Q. Losing a guy like Mike got to be tough for a team. How do you bounce back from that?
 
 AL LEITER: I think you bounce back by realizing -- well, obviously not hitters but I am
sure some of the hitters will probably be able to explain it bet better. Obviously you
can't replace Mike Piazza in the lineup and hopefully he will be ready tomorrow, but you
must as a team think positive and realize that this is okay. Todd Pratt is an excellent
catcher and you know, hopefully who knows. Stuff like this, crazy stuff like this happens
where you don't expect something from somebody and it is my hope that Todd Pratt is the
hero tonight. 
 
Q. How much does a day off help this team? You guys have been complaining recently --
you guys have been playing some tense days?
 
 AL LEITER: A day off is great. Even though it didn't feel like a day off I didn't know
if I wanted stay up all day or go to bed by tomorrow or take a nap. Got in about 9 o'clock
yesterday in the morning. So, the time was a little whacky, but I think just for the
mindset for us to not have to think about executing a baseball game and worrying about a
game was good. We needed that. 
 
Q. You said you haven't decided which hitters you might want to stay away from.
Obviously you know they are hitters. What will it take for you to decide who the ones that
are most dangerous for you?
 
 AL LEITER: Seeing the lineup tomorrow seeing a situation where if I know Matt Williams
whomever is behind him or obviously it is going to be the middle of the order there, with
Gonzalez and Williams and Finley. So well it was a situation I guess the other day with
two out and we had Finley up with Gilkey on deck, mindset if you walked Finley -- he ended
up getting a big hit but if you walked him had the rightie in Gilkey, stuff like. That it
is all scenarios and match-ups that I would think. But it is obviously in the middle
there, somewhere. 
 
Q. Through the years there has been a lot of great pitchers that have not been
particularly great postseason pitchers. I am just wondering, I mean, I guess pressure
mounts on these kind of guys the longer they go without pitching well into postseason but
in your case, you won a 7th game of the World Series. I am wondering what part of that did
you take with you for example against Cincinnati the other day, tomorrow, I mean, this is
something that I mean, you have done it and I am just wondering how much effect that has?
 
 AL LEITER: Well, for one I am not great so I don't think I have any kind of ego that I
can think I am some kind of great pitcher. I always think I am grateful and lucky for what
I have. Seriously I take these games and realize that it is such a bonus and it is such a
thrill and these are the times in games that you dream about. I always think of the
downside of it; there isn't a downside. You go out and pitch poorly; okay, obviously
didn't want to pitch poorly but the moment was something that you dream about. I guess I
just focus so much on how great of a feeling it is to be in this position where a lot of
much better pitchers than me have ever been in and just go for it. I think perhaps you are
right that the pressure that a great pitcher puts on his own self because he is a Cy Young
award winner, because he is a future Hall of Famer, et cetera, etcetera, that they get in
these situations. Obviously there is a lot more tension and everybody talks about it and
they add this exterior distraction that doesn't allow them to be the best they can be. I
don't know. But I kind of winning it. I put together a game plan and think about how lucky
I am to be in this position and let us go out and have fun and see how it works out. 
 
Q. I don't know if you have ever talked to Petitte, but perfect example in that
everybody knocked Petitte this year, they said the guy has got a delicate psyche,
everything else, yet has pitched three of the best postseason games for the Yankees?
 
 AL LEITER: I haven't talked to Andy about that, but obviously we talked a few times
about -- a little bit about pitching, but, well, it is true, you wonder, as a fan or as a
club do you want a guy who wins you all those big games in April and May and doesn't do it
at the end or kind of has a rough way getting there, but always comes up big for you. I am
sure everybody would prefer a guy who steps up when it really counts. 
 
Q. Did you do anything the last four days to curtail your routine because you went so
long on Monday night?
 
 AL LEITER: I didn't throw as much on whenever -- Wednesday in Arizona, normally I get a
good 15, 20 minutes I get to a point where I am -- I will throw a few pitches at 100%. I
didn't do that. My weight - I usually go through two days in between my starts with
heavier weight and I only did one, so I watched a little bit. I do that during the year,
too if there is a game or two that, you know, went a little bit longer pitch-wise than
you'd like. 
 
Q. How have you bounced back from high pitch count outings?
 
 AL LEITER: I don't know. We will have to get Elias on that one. I am not sure. 
 
Q. Some pitchers you don't need Elias for?
 
 AL LEITER: I don't remember it being bad where, geez, you know, Al threw a lot of
pitches the last start; that is why he stunk today. I don't remember really that, so..... 
 
Q. On a team full of heroes how does Edgardo Alfonzo fit in in your mind?
 
 AL LEITER: He has got to be number one, that is for sure. We have had so many great
moments with all our guys, but Edgardo has really picked it up and done a great job, so
without his great performance we certainly wouldn't be one-to-one right now. We might not
even be here. 
 
Q. On a follow-up on the Piazza injury and how you guys basically react to that,
whatever, is there a certain mindset too that you look back on other teams that have lost
their best players or whatever and say well, they won too, I mean you have to take that
attitude --
 
 AL LEITER: Yeah, I am trying to think of a player that obviously is of star caliber as
Mike Piazza. 
 
Q. The A's lost Reggie Jackson, for example; they won a World Series without him?
 
 AL LEITER: No doubt about it. And I think with a talented club -- now you can't replace
Mike Piazza. I am not saying that at all. I am not downplaying the loss of not having Mike
in the lineup. But having a good team, which we have, and the ability to have a Todd Pratt
step in who is an excellent defensive catcher and can and may and hopefully will get a key
hit tonight. Everybody else feels like it is their share now. Maybe -- who knows, maybe it
is a good thing. Maybe it is not like let's not count on Mike tonight, let me do it. I
don't know. I don't know. I am not -- I can't hit and I don't hit and I will never be able
to hit. 
 
Q. Can you talk about your season; how you rebounded after struggling early?
 
 AL LEITER: Again? (laughs). 
 Well, I was just -- I didn't start out too well and I kind of got on a little roll and
obviously with that, my confidence elevated and I felt good about what I was doing and
then just ups and downs, but I will tell you, if this ultimately for us, as a New York Met
team, we go on to a World Series knowing that I didn't have a great season, I would take
this year over last year any day. Last year was a career year for me, but I was home. I
wasn't standing here. So you take personal numbers and achievements and you throw it out
the window when it comes to being and having the opportunity to go to postseason and
ultimately The World Championship. 
 
Q. Follow-up to Edgardo, is he as stoic among his teammates as he tends to be among us?

 
 AL LEITER: Very much so. He is a true professional. He does not showboat. He is a not a
hot dog. He is a guy that just plays hard. He is a great teammate and great player. I like
everything about him. He is very much that. 
 
Q. How would you assess pitching to Pratt as opposed to Piazza, what are the
differences?
 
 AL LEITER: Well, I have had some really good games with Todd behind the plate. He
catches a very good game. He is very into it. This is not a knock, obviously he doesn't
have the same career numbers as a hitter as Mike, so he really takes it that much more
pride in catching a good ballgame. He really want to catch a good game and if Todd ends up
getting some knocks, great, it is not downplaying his offensive side for him either, but I
think he really, really understands and wants to call a great game and a lot of times it
is just a matter of relationship and working with a guy. When Mike did go down earlier in
the year and Todd caught a couple of weeks straight, there was a good relationship and a
good rapport. He is a good catcher that knows hitters and pitchers meetings, he has always
got a comment or two about certain hitters that he thinks you can get out and he is very
vocal and he is an aggressive guy and he is perfect for the tools of ignorance. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT