MLB WORLD SERIES: INDIANS v MARLINS
October 25, 1997
Al Leiter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Al, can you tell me about how you're going to prepare for tomorrow's game, and is this going to be the most important game you've ever pitched?

AL LEITER:  I'm going to prepare the same way.  I'm going to look at it as any other game and I think that's the best way to approach this, and honestly that's all I'm thinking about.  I'm thinking about the line-up.  I faced them already, and just thinking about making pitches.


Q.  Is this the most important game you're ever going to be pitching against?

AL LEITER:  I think that game in '84 when I was in high school was probably the most important.  I would probably say this up to date is probably the most important game.  But it is still a game, and baseball is fun and I think as long as you're prepared physically and mentally that's all you can ask for and I'm ready.


Q.  I asked Jaret Wright how he would sleep tonight and he said he might toss and turn a little bit, but how will you sleep tonight? 

AL LEITER:  I'm usually a real good sleeper.


Q.  You won't be thinking about the pitches or the batters?

AL LEITER:  Not unless you keep going with it, and maybe I'll start thinking about the pitches. This is home, this has been home for me for 8 years, since the Yankee days and I'm in the same bed that I've lived in and I like sleeping in my own bed, unlike Jaret, I guess he's at the hotel.  I feel real comfortable.


Q.  How disappointed were you after your last start?

AL LEITER:  I guess results-wise it wasn't there, but this time of the year it's about wins, and we're tremendous in the hitting, and came back and we won the game, and that's really all I was concerned with.  And after the fact that there was a win I was happy.


Q.  Al, when Tom Glavine had a pitch against you guys in that series he said I'm ready to pitch this game.  He said it would be tougher for John, John Smoltz, because he's hoping he doesn't have to pitch Game 7.  That was the Series, probably a different series, but a Game 7 where your pitcher is not expecting to pitch is a tough one to pitch.  Is there  some truth to that?

AL LEITER:  There is some truth, because obviously tonight we were hoping for a win, and obviously for it to be over.  So you're torn both ways.  But all along my side work with Larry Rothchild and everything I've done has been the same, like I've done for the last 13 years as a professional baseball play.  It's strange, because obviously you feel like you're cheering the team on to win, but you have in the back of your mind if you don't, that you have to come back the next day and here we are.


Q.  Al, being a Game 7 with so many rested guys in the bullpen behind you do you feel that it's kind of a quick hook staff against the Indians kind of start?

AL LEITER:  I erred out all the time anyway, so that's basically my approach and gets me in trouble.  So it's a fine line between being relaxed and using all your pitches and just trying to make a pitch.  So obviously it's the last game of the year, it will be the last Major League Baseball game played and obviously you go about it that way, and it's all out, it's all or nothing.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT