JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 23, 2012
Mark Foster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MARK FOSTER:   Just what I was looking for.   I knew I practiced well, just had five weeks off, and you really don't know if that practice means anything.   But, yeah, it did and really pleased with that for a start.

Q.   What worked particularly?
MARK FOSTER:   Just consistency really.   I was hitting fairways, greens.   I have to say there is some big improvement, and the conditions‑‑ it's playing long, as well.

Q.   I presume you came here with memories of last year, very fresh?
MARK FOSTER:   Yeah.   You know, good and bad, but I had plenty of positive memories.   Yeah, it was a good week, and you know, I knew I had got four weeks coming up and it was probably where I wanted to start.

Q.   Surely more good than bad? 
MARK FOSTER:   Yeah, definitely so.   Without a doubt.   And like I said, it was a bit of the unknown.     Wouldn't have surprised me if I had shot 80s or 70s today but I was pleased with the way I just kept myself going.

Q.   Is this one of those courses that meets your eye; that you expect to do well on if your game is in good shape? 
MARK FOSTER:   Yeah, I mean, anybody can play anywhere.   I'm not long; it doesn't suit me but I seem to see a way that I want to play the course.   It's a big hitter's course and I'm not a big hitter, but I'm willing to hit driver or whatever it may be, so maybe I can catch up a little bit there.   16, I have to lay back, but I have to try to take advantage of the medium holes, which is what I try to do out there.

Q.   Fairly benign conditions today. 
MARK FOSTER:   Yeah, I don't know if the forecast means anything in these parts really, in the nicest way.   In Wednesday, it said we would need Noah's arc again, and Saturday they are predicting‑‑ conditions are all right.   The greens are holding up. 

Q.   Looking forward to the rest of the season?
MARK FOSTER:   Definitely.   It's a bit unknown, the end of the year, but wait and see what I get in and focus on the next six tournaments which I know I will get in.   Could be a bit of stop/start and maybe that could be it. 

Q.   What did you do for those weeks?   It's odd for a pro golfer to have a break in the middle of the summer?
MARK FOSTER:   Yeah, first time for me.   Scottish Open, I played awful, struggled.   I said to my wife and caddie, I could play Austria, but I felt so bad in Scotland that I said, I'm going to have to take I break.   Literally had a holiday at home and didn't want to go away.   Went to the Olympics and that was good.   Two weeks gone watching that.   So, yeah, I had four weeks off and then practiced last week. 

Q.   What did you see at the Olympics, anything inspiring? 
MARK FOSTER:   A bit of a mixed bag.   Super Saturday, probably the best thing I've ever seen.   Gymnastics, with my ability, wanted to see if they as good as me; and show jumping for Mrs.Foster because she likes show jumping.   So it was a mixed bag. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT