BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 26, 2012
Mark Foster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about the day out there. 
MARK FOSTER:   I've not seen any scores, but the wind is wicked.   It is just all over.   It's not the strength of the wind; it's funneling, and you just hit it out there and hope it does what you want.   It is getting to that sort of level at the minute.   That's why 2‑ or 3‑under or whatever it is is leading at the moment. 

Q.   Club selection is critical?
MARK FOSTER:   Exactly, yeah, ball flight more than club selection.   You know, it's just‑‑ yeah ball flight is everything, really. 

Q.   You came here, it was very cold this morning, wasn't it. 
MARK FOSTER:   Yeah, it was freezing.   It's been bizarre.   I came here Sunday absolutely freezing.   Monday and Tuesday, red hot.   And Wednesday, thinking I was on Noah's Ark at one point.   And this morning, just throw on everything you've got on.   But the sun came out after the ninth, so it was good to see some blue skies. 

Q.   I get the feeling this might be a difficult track regardless of the weather?
MARK FOSTER:   Yeah, everybody went for the same‑‑ saw the forecast, they put it on the board, 30‑mile‑an‑hour gusts.   Greens are tricky and everybody sort of knew it was going an interesting day.

Q.   And playing alongside Jamie Donaldson who was playing as well as you did. 
MARK FOSTER:   Yeah, he's a good friend and hitting good shots.   I guess if you're in a good groove, you'd rather see good shots than bad shots, and we both hit a lot of good shots.   

Q.   How well are you playing overall? 
MARK FOSTER:   A bit of a surprise really.   I've not played very good.   I've not been hiding away from that. 

Q.   Give an indication of how this fits in; how well you're playing overall. 
MARK FOSTER:   It's a bit of a surprise really.   I've not played very good.   I've not been hiding away from that, either.   Been having some pretty harsh meeting at home.   I've been playing poor, and I played really well today and it was good to see.   Saw a little bit Thursday morning in China.   Saw a little bit there, which you know, kept me‑‑ well, it brought me here really. 
What I said to my wife, I was thinking about going the other way, but I saw enough there to bring me here to practice and get on with it. 

Q.   You didn't want any more harsh meetings at home. 
MARK FOSTER:   No, not with her.   She gives me the harsh meetings.   No, elsewhere.   But yeah, been some times, you've got to ask the question of yourself and other people why you are playing; so just been a little bit like that this year. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT