HONG KONG OPEN
October 19, 2014
Mark Foster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What's your verdict on this week?   
MARK FOSTER:   I can only take positives from it.   I found myself in a position I never thought I would be in a few months ago, but I'm going to keep focusing on the positives.   It was a great week.  
   
 Q.   You had seven birdies on the back nine yesterday, another two to start.   
MARK FOSTER:   I said to myself on the first tee, just try to continue what you're doing and the first two shots, I was like, wow.   It's tricky out there.   If you don't get the rub of the green at the right time, which we saw on the last, I made four there where people were making six maybe and that wasn't happening early in the round.   
   
 Q.   That was a beautiful chip.   I thought it was going in.   
MARK FOSTER:   Yeah, I think Jbe' Kruger, he walked across and realised‑‑ thought might as well try and chip it in and we both laughed.   As it was going down, we both presumed it was going in.   Yeah, really pleased with four.  
   
 Q.   Most weeks you might be a bit more disappointed than this.   This time, given your back problems and the fact things are secure for next season, so many positives?  
MARK FOSTER:   I don't want to dwell on the back.   I came in to do a job and I've done that job, and you know, it's just relief, really.   
   
 Q.   I know you don't want to concentrate on the back, but what is the score from here on, rest, recuperation?  
MARK FOSTER:   Yeah, it does need rest and a bit of rehabilitation.   It responds well to rest.   It's better now than it was last week.   I've got to decide whether it will be all right if I give it three more days rest to play next week.   I'll probably decide that tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Big decision, still a lengthy trip to Perth?  
MARK FOSTER:   Yeah, but when you're mentally booked, you're ready for doing them so I'm ready for going down there.   I may well go down there.   It's a great place, actually spend three days' resting and then see.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT