ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 2, 2011
Mark Foster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 68, how do you feel about that one?
 MARK FOSTER: Probably the best one of the three. It was really blowing out there, a lot of crosswinds which seems to be either into or down, and the course has firmed out a lot and it's tough to get the ball close. A great round.

 Q. You're obviously feeding off Richie because both of you were making birdies, inspiring to have someone alongside you playing well, is it?
 MARK FOSTER: He was playing great. I got the feeling he was doing the same. As soon as he was doing something good I was trying to do the same. Yeah, we were feeding off each other definitely.

 Q. How daunting are the last four holes when the course is as tricky as it is now?
 MARK FOSTER: The first 14 are tough but they are in the back of your mind all the way, they are, yeah. Even wind, no wind -- you just think about them. But it's just a good test all the way around, and yeah, that really seals a great golf course off.

 Q. Thoughts on tomorrow?
 MARK FOSTER: I didn't see the board, I heard James dropped a couple, I presume I'll be one or two behind or something. Great, two weeks in a row the last group, that's where you want to be. 

 Q. How pleased are you with your round?
 MARK FOSTER: Very, it's tricky out there. I knew if I could break 70 -- and I managed to do that. 

 Q. Wind was pigging up today, how difficult was it to keep bogeys off your car?
 MARK FOSTER: Impossible to keep bogeys off. I wasn't trying to do that anyway. I was just trying to make a few birdies. You know you're going to drop a few shots out there. The firmness of the course from Tuesday when we arrived, yeah, it's totally different.

 Q. How anxious are you to go on to the course tomorrow?
 MARK FOSTER: I look forward to it and to be honest, I'll be happy if the conditions are similar to this, but however it is, I'll just prepare and try and stick to my game plan. 

 Q. Final round coming up and you're in the lead?
 MARK FOSTER: Yeah, I'm enjoying it, yeah. Hope I can come and see you guys more often. 
 It is tough out there, and played good golf. I played in a good group, which is helpful. We sort of /TP*ETD off each other and were making birdies and the board tells you, there were not many birdies out there. Richie ran a good two ball today.

 Q. How mentally tiring is it playing a course like this? 
 MARK FOSTER: Yeah. I've not hit a ball yet after my round this week, for two reasons: A, I'm hitting it all right, and B, you are tired when you come off. 
 I saw the conditions were tough when I arrived here today, but I was positive with it. I just wanted to keep doing the same thing and yeah, I managed to do that.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT