ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 1, 2011
Mark Foster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Any time you break 70 twice on this golf course, you're going to be pleased. How pleased with two 68s?  
 MARK FOSTER: Yeah, very. It's a course that doesn't let you up on any shot. There's a lot of courses we play maybe one good shot and you feel like you kill a hole and it's all out. You've got to stay positive around this course and hit good shots.  
  
  Q. Is it tiring mentally when every shot is so crucial? A lapse in concentration and you can make a big number.   
 MARK FOSTER: It can be. I've not played so much lately, so I feel pretty fresh, but my concentration has been good out there. When I hit a wayward shot, I try to get it back to the fairway, and I managed to recover. And obviously there's some slip-ups to be had out there, which happened on 18 yesterday, without doing too much wrong. It's pushing on from there on this course, which is what you have to do.   
  
  Q. Six made cuts in a row, and a third place last week, something clicked in the game?  
 MARK FOSTER: Well, yeah, I've holed more putts. I played well at the beginning of the year. You know, everyone uses the word, stay patient, stay patient but I have managed to do that. Just starting to see the middle of the hole rather than it running by.  
  
  Q. What is the sort of philosophy going into the last two rounds then?  
 MARK FOSTER: Don't think about it too much because anything can happen around here. You can never be too far ahead, that is for sure. So obviously these guys that are playing exceptionally well, they have gone well clear, but I'll be looking at staying solid and maybe assessing nearer the time. But yeah, a couple of similar scores and see what happens.   
  I've had a tendency not to take form into the following weeks and I was quite conscious off that when I came out. Practised well and kept myself quiet and out of the way. Striking it well and pleased.    
  Q. After that third place finish in Germany last week, how pleasing was that? I know you didn't get the win but was it still a satisfying four days?  
 MARK FOSTER: As I said when I left there, I was pleased -- at least I was on Sunday. Things didn't go my way on 18 which maybe made it easier coming into this week. But I took some positives from last week, and obviously going out, wanted to win, but hopefully I can do the same again.  
  
  Q. You've got that competitive edge now playing in final groups. Do you think that's going to help you going into the weekend?   
 MARK FOSTER: Yeah, it cannot not help, but I had it going into -- I had it last week. You just -- yeah, the more times you get there, it's not got to be better.  
  
  Q. Very different course, isn't it, this week compared to last week.   
 MARK FOSTER: The conditions today were really tricky. The wind was everywhere. Something you don't see it on TV or spectators don't see. Some of those par 3s, tiny greens, just fingers crossed and as you can see with some scores, it's really difficult out there.   
  
  Q. But you seem to be handling it well. So game plan is just to stay patient over the weekend?  
 MARK FOSTER: That's all I've tried to do over two days, took double on 18 Thursday, knew I was playing well, and managed to keep going. Yeah, patience a big word. It's a big word every week.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT