PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 15, 2009
Mark Foster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. I think you shot 66 here last year, as well?  
 MARK FOSTER: My memory's not that good. No, I played okay last year.   
 Yeah, it was a solid round. I didn't drive the ball good for me, so I probably rolled my luck off the tee, but the rough was patchy, very good shots out of the rough today. They weren't necessarily lying that good so very good shots to get back into play.  
  
  Q. You said before you were probably being too modest, that's better than solid, isn't it?  
 MARK FOSTER: Yeah, it's good. Obviously just hit a bad tee shot off 18 and there's no bail out there, I made six down there. But you know, I'm getting to the stage where I'm stop letting things like that affect me and had a good back nine as well.  
  
  Q. Are you struggling, a few sniffles?  
 MARK FOSTER: I'm fine now, I think just the air conditioning. I'm absolutely fine.   
  
  Q. Nothing to grumble about in this weather.   
 MARK FOSTER: It's about the happen yeast I've been everyone in the locker room -- well, last Tuesday, Wednesday. Everybody looks forward to getting here, you know what you're getting, it's a great place, great food and you can catch weather like this.   
  
  Q. Tricky place if the wind picks up.   
 MARK FOSTER: Yeah, surprised this morning, the two practice days it was very strong and I was very surprised and the leaderboard showed it straightaway. You have a good golf course, no wind, there's going to be birdies. I think we will definitely see the wind before the end of the week.   
  
  Q. So much like Nottinghamshire, isn't it.   
 MARK FOSTER: Yeah, must be very similar. A few more clouds, you don't get as many clouds in Nottingham. No, obviously good to see the boys on there and hopefully we'll have a battle at the weekend.   
  
  Q. Good to see you up there again, you were playing well in Austria a couple of weeks ago, so the form is not far away.   
 MARK FOSTER: Yeah, it's not far away, in and out, yeah keep saying the same thing but one day I'll put four rounds together.   
  
  Q. How do you consider your Order of Merit position at the moment?   
 MARK FOSTER: I just keep trying to focus on myself. In my mind, mathematically, a lot of the tournaments left, a lot of people have to go by, so I never consider myself safe at any point, but also I don't look -- these tournaments, I have to concentrate on what I'm doing. People have different ways but I've got enough to worry about with myself.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT