PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 16, 2008
Mark Foster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RODDY WILLIAMS: Mark, thank you for joining us, terrific opening round 66 in good weather?
 MARK FOSTER: Good weather this morning nice threeball and all played nicely, so some good stuff. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS: Good start in some good conditions.
 MARK FOSTER: Yeah, it was actually kind of dark, hard to concentrate on what I was doing, but nine holes of perfect greens, it was a good draw. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS: You've been showing some steady form of late. 
 MARK FOSTER: Yeah, playing well, but then missed the cut at the Dunhill, tried to put that aside, that tournament was quite difficult really, and just tried to focus on my preparation coming in here. 

 Q. It was still dark?
 MARK FOSTER: Played at 7:50. Pitch black at 7:30. You do it a few times a year really, it's not a problem. It was fine, ten minutes, once we got going, it was fine. 

 Q. How were the greens? 
 MARK FOSTER: Yeah, I'm sure they are slightly softer than what they would like but they are still very good. They are actually as good now as early on, when the sun comes and flattens them a little more and dries them, they will be quite ideal actually. They were quite wet. 

 Q. How many shots different is the course this year compared to last?
MARK FOSTER: I would say it's playing two shots, if you look at it like that, two shots a round I would say.
 Just the fact there is obviously water out there, if you bail to the side, you can't get to the green, so the rough is penal. 

 Q. The birdie?
 MARK FOSTER: Yeah, that was a talking point on the range, two fantastic shots there, a big, long drive, committed to the line really, similar thing, so commit to the line, good shot in to the second about four feet, 7-iron it was. The wind was right. 

 Q. Time for Nottingham's forgotten man to make a move?
 MARK FOSTER: Yeah, I keep paying people to keep telling me that. Yeah, it crosses my mind more than anyone. Not many people out here anymore, so yeah, I would like to start playing some decent golf. 

 Q. Any part of your game you are working on?
 MARK FOSTER: Not really. That's certainly something we are looking at. I think to do anything -- certainly this year, I played solid last year, and I finished all right and this year I played solid again. I've been doing nothing wrong all year, but not doing enough right, if that makes any sense. The bad has not been bad at all but the good hasn't been good enough this year. 

 Q. You played Walker Cup with Padraig Harrington - could you see him becoming the player he is now?
 MARK FOSTER: Yeah, he was always -- he wasn't the player that he is now, best Irish player in the world back then. He was a very good player, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT