BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 19, 2008
Mark Foster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Just tell us about how good the day was.   
 MARK FOSTER: Yes, a solid round. Scoring is difficult as the greens dry out, so, yeah, pleased with putting the ball in good positions.   
  
  Q. Solid, modest or realistic?  
 MARK FOSTER: Well, only slightly modest. It's a good score. The flags are tough today which is why you'll see different scoring -- if you miss a flag on the wrong side it's bogey or double. I put the ball in good positions and left the ball beneath the hole and hit my putts firm enough to hold the line, and that was the key to scoring today.  
  
  Q. First finishers said the greens were in marvelous conditions but I take it with that little bit of traffic they are catching up?  
 MARK FOSTER: They are holding up but obviously the same for us tomorrow afternoon, as they dry, it gets tougher in the afternoon. Just how it is.   
  
  Q. Continuing your form nicely, aren't you?   
 MARK FOSTER: Yes, trying to do the same things and one week hopefully put four rounds together somewhere. So, yeah, that's the plan, wait and see, yeah.   
  
  Q. You've put four rounds together on several occasions, but it's almost there.   
 MARK FOSTER: Yeah, close, definitely.   
  
  Q. What have you been doing over the last week or so?   
 MARK FOSTER: Two weeks at home. Had a full week off and then just had a week practising, so two weeks I've actually been home and stayed around.   
  
  Q. Is it good to recharge the batteries, after having a run of events?   
 MARK FOSTER: Yeah, I felt I needed it and my body was telling me I needed it, as well so, would have been easy to go to Austria really in the position I'm in and needed some good weeks.   
 I felt better coming in here with the events that we have coming up, so hopefully it will pay off.  
  
  Q. Did you feel the aches and pains?   
 MARK FOSTER: At Celtic Manor, yeah. That was my fifth week in a row or something like that and it was playing wet and long and had a few eagles there and thought it's time for a break.   
  
  Q. What is it, back?  
 MARK FOSTER: Yeah, just general, from hitting a lot of balls.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT