HONG KONG OPEN
October 18, 2014
Mark Foster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How special was that back nine?   
MARK FOSTER:   Yeah, it really was.   It came from nowhere, as well.   I was 2‑over after eight, missed the green on 9.   Probably ironically saving the par at 9 inspired me a little bit to get back into it.   It really did come from nowhere.  
   
 Q.   You started the day in decent position and suddenly you're leading the tournament.   
MARK FOSTER:   I knew the scoring was bunched.   I knew there are birdies out there and I never for one moment thought I was going to make that many.   Just kept telling myself to give myself chances coming in and get my score back.   
   
 Q.   Was there a particular highlight?   
MARK FOSTER:   Yeah, probably five in a row, I just kept knocking putts in.   I just tried to keep the mentality where I kept going around‑‑ I was more pleased with the way I kept going forward.  
   
 Q.   Sounds like you can shrug off the last easy enough?  
MARK FOSTER:   Yeah, it is a tough hole.   For me, I went with driver and I was riding a wave.   It just didn't work out.   
   
 Q.   You've been playing well, getting the form together in recent times?  
MARK FOSTER:   Yeah, I've needed it, as well.   I forgot what it's like to play well.   It's been a long year not playing well.   So it's nice to play well for a few weeks.  
   
 Q.   You're nicely inside the 110 mark as things are but presumably there was a bit of frustration, edginess over recent times?  
MARK FOSTER:   Yeah, it's been a tough few weeks.   I was still uncomfortable.   That's why I came down here.   I was far from certain before this week.   Everybody kept telling me I was, but I knew how many good players were around and I knew I had to come down here and do a job.   
   
 Q.   So to do a job did you have a figure in mind?  
MARK FOSTER:   Not really.   I just wanted to concentrate on myself.   I was 102 and I knew if I played well, it would take care of me‑‑ I knew there's a lot of good players around me, and if they play well, which they have done this week.   
   
 Q.   Can you relax now and have the positive adrenaline and anxiety about your position in the tournament‑‑  
MARK FOSTER:   Yeah, I'll focus on the tournament tomorrow and try and enjoy the day and see how that goes.   
   
 Q.   You retired from the Portugal tournament last week, why was that?  
MARK FOSTER:   Back injury, yeah.   I couldn't walk last week.   It was a bit weird.   And to be honest, coming down here, I wasn't sure‑‑ I just came with the hope of playing.   Didn't hit a shot until Thursday morning.   Didn't arrive until Wednesday‑‑ well, Tuesday night, Wednesday morning.   Never hit a shot.   Just been laying on ice all week.   Not hit a practice shot or anything.   
   
 Q.   Muscle thing?  
MARK FOSTER:   Yeah, I've got a bulging disc.   I was in for a scan in the hospital on Monday.   Get through these two weeks and it will be a break for me.   
   
 Q.   Was it something that if you weren't in doubt for your card‑‑  
MARK FOSTER:   I went to see a specialist on Monday and he deals with a lot of golfers.   Backs and golfers‑‑ if we have a scan on our backs, any golfer, they are not any good.   It's an abnormal movement.   But it's worse than it should have been.   Thankfully the specialist did an unbelievable job on Monday and so far, so good with it.  
   
 Q.   I think did you have your first kid recently?  
MARK FOSTER:   Yeah, ten months ago.   We had our first child, yeah.  
   
 Q.   How much does that change the pressure when you're struggling to retain your card?   
MARK FOSTER:   Wife's going to kill me‑‑ it's one of the reasons I wasn't playing very well.   We got a lot of things wrong when she was born.   We didn't know what they were doing.   We were getting no sleep.   I took a long break because I wanted to spend time with them.   
So I had three months off.   I waltzed into the desert and thought I'll be all right; I couldn't hit a shot.   So got no sleep, started playing worse and worse; yeah, she's the best thing that's ever happened‑‑ get that in (laughter).   But yeah, we got a lot of things wrong, but it's our first child.   We didn't know; nobody knows what to do, what's right.     
   
 Q.   All good now?  
MARK FOSTER:   Getting there.   Don't see as much of them as I like but basically they have to stay at home and I have to go away and get some sleep.   
   
 Q.   You're 102; what do you think you need to do with the rest of the season to be assured of keeping your card?  
MARK FOSTER:   I've racked my brains over the last month about this.   There's no answer.   There's a little gap, so if the people who are around 110, or 111 play very well, it could still be a very high number.   Everybody keeps brandishing the figure 240, but nobody knows that.   
I saw a quote earlier that there's a lot of good players this year in that area, and no disrespect to other players, but Kjeldsen, Webster, Wall, certainly players who have played‑‑ I've been there too often but they have not been in that position very often and they will play well under that pressure.   As you can see every week it keeps jumping up and as you can see this week, 110,   111, 109, they are all played well.   Babbling on a bit but I reckon 240, 250.   I'll just keep going, yeah.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT