JOHNNIE WALKER CLASSIC
February 28, 2008
Mark Foster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RODDY WILLIAMS:  Mark Foster, 4-under 68 and share of the lead at the moment.  You must be pretty pleased with your day's work. 
 MARK FOSTER:  Yeah, obviously it's good scoring the first day.  Very warm out there, it's not easy.  And the course is playing firm and tricky. 
 So, yeah good score for the start of the week. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  Obviously the front nine really set you up nicely. 
 MARK FOSTER:  Yeah, speaks for itself.  The front nine I played really good golf.  I had chances seven out of the nine holes, really.  The 4-under could have been even a little better, and back nine, brutally honest, struggled on my way in.  Still played okay, but it was a lot trickier actually the back nine. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  We were saying as you were walking in, you've had a quiet start for the year, but you managed to find something this week. 
 MARK FOSTER:  Yeah, a frustrating start I would say.  I only made one cut in Abu Dhabi.  I've played well, I've played three tournaments -- played well in all of them, just didn't do well. 
 So I came out here, not too down, but yeah, just wanted to get some good scores under my belt. 

 Q.  What do you think of some of your birdie shots and tough putts? 
 MARK FOSTER:  Mainly they were on the front nine.  The third hole was a 6-iron to ten feet just above the hole, quick putt, got me going. 
 The fifth hole, the tee was forward on the fifth actually, quite surprising.  9-iron to six feet, birdie. 
 Sixth hole, I missed the fairway to lay up.  Then hit my third shot in to about three feet and another birdie. 
 Then the eighth hole, was a 7-iron again to about 12 feet, birdie. 
 Made bogey at 10. Bad drive. 
 14, third shot, wedge in to there to about ten feet again.  Putting was my strength today which in Asia is quite strange for me, but it was quite good. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  You don't find the grainy greens difficult? 
 MARK FOSTER:  The good thing here, at least for us traveling, you can see where the grain is.  The other tournament in India, you couldn't see the grain.  At least here it sticks out, so you've got half a chance. 

 Q.  After your good finish last season, I think it was your best finish on The European Tour, it must have been disappointing to start the year so poorly. 
 MARK FOSTER:  Yes, it was, very.  Probably trial and error, really.  I took a long break in the winter, which I've never done before, and probably didn't quite get myself good enough -- well, although I was out of the box quick in Abu Dhabi, I thought I was fine, but then Sunday got hold of me. 
 Yeah, was probably too long off in the winter. 

 Q.  (Regarding struggling early this season). 
 MARK FOSTER:  Yeah, the only good thing, I knew I had not played bad in those tournaments.  I admit the results were not great, but it was just the lack of competitive golf rather than playing poorly.  So I knew I just needed to play some golf and I still need to play golf.  It certainly doesn't feel as comfortable as it did at the end of last year, so just trying to get back to those sort of results. 

 Q.  How was the wind today; did it help? 
 MARK FOSTER:  Actually this morning it was pretty still.  Every day so far has been consistent.  It gets very windy in the afternoon.  I don't know if it will pick up or not, but it was perfect early this morning.  A little bit of breeze on the back nine. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  Thank you very much and well played. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT