THE QUINN DIRECT BRITISH MASTERS
September 22, 2007
Mark Foster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RODDY WILLIAMS:  Thanks very much for coming in and joining us this evening.  17 excellent holes, and ultimately a putt on the last to give you a two-shot lead.  How are you feeling going into tomorrow? 
 MARK FOSTER:  I actually didn't know what position I was in.  I didn't look at any boards.  So on 18, I didn't know what position I was in. 
 Probably, yeah, reflecting on that, it's been a great day.  The putt really proved that I kept my focus and it was nice to knock the putt in.  It gives me -- what, I've got positives to take away anyway, but the putt gives me a good mental image leaving the day at least. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  Disappointing that second shot on 18.  Can you talk us through what happened there? 
 MARK FOSTER:  Yeah, I take full responsibility really.  I'd been comfortable all day and had a 3-iron shot, and I didn't want to hit is it really don't know why, but anyway, I tried to hit a little wood and it's a tight lie, but hindsight, you know, like I say, take the positives from the putt. 

 Q.  Did you hit a nice drive on the last? 
 MARK FOSTER:  Yeah, nice drive at the bunker.  I just held it against the wind, so I knew it was going to be a long way back and in good position to the fairway.  It was one bad swing. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  Two-shot lead for tomorrow, so you'll have a bunch of players snapping at your heels, it will be an exciting final day. 
 MARK FOSTER:  Yeah, it's a great board and a lot of good players.  Makes for a good day of golf no doubt. 

 Q.  What was your yardage on 18 on the second shot? 
 MARK FOSTER:  I had 228 to the pin.  I hit it straight across off the right.  Actually just took one of those swings. You can't on that hole. 

 Q.  How difficult has it been with those guys you played Walker Cup with doing so well? 
 MARK FOSTER:  Yeah, I was in here yesterday and I kept using the same word, frustrating really.  But, you know, I wish everybody else well and it was myself I was frustrated with.  Yeah, something I have to deal with, not been through a lack of effort and trying, and it just the game we're playing.  I've been plugging away and I'll plug away after this week.  Just try and do the right things. 

 Q.  Can you elaborate about the mental focus? 
 MARK FOSTER:  It's nothing -- well, I said last week, the mental side has not been strong enough for four rounds often enough.  And as you saw today, I don't have a problem with being around good scores and stuff like that.  But your target wavers and it's something I'm working on and it was very good today. 

 Q.  Have you thought about what winning here would mean? 
 MARK FOSTER:  Well, just interviews, and haven't really had time to think about it.  It would be great.  It's a long way from the front of my mind at the moment. 
 I'll just reflect on today and try and take the positives from how I played today.  It actually got quite tricky again at the end.  The greens dried a little bit and the wind got up a little bit.  Yeah, it was getting quite tricky at the end. 

 Q.  Is there a reason why you didn't want to hit 3-iron on 18, your second shot? 
 MARK FOSTER:  Well, I knew there was a back board at the back.  I saw -- sort of at the ridge at the back you could see it pitching back and coming down.  As you saw on my third shot the last place you wanted to be was do you know at the bottom.  It's not that I didn't want to hit 3-iron; I just didn't want it to come back to where the 9-iron shot came back down. 

 Q.  What did you do, did you hit it -- 
 MARK FOSTER:  The second shot?  Just hit it thin basically.  Just got no fly on it.  Caught it, sort of half-topped it.  Saturday morning shot. 

 Q.  Is there a shot that stands out today? 
 MARK FOSTER:  Out there today?  The putt on 18 and just for my own purpose just to prove that my focus was still there.  I played a nice chip, it didn't get up, but I was actually at one point thought that might come back down, too. 
 Yeah, it stayed up there and it was actually a better chip than it looked because it was easy no knock it past and I could have rolled it back down the hill. 

 Q.  How far? 
 MARK FOSTER:  From the front the flag, was probably 28 yards, 25-yard chip. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  A lot of positives with the other birdies out there.  Could you rattle through those? 
 MARK FOSTER:  Yeah, the second, hit a great wedge shot in to three feet. 
 3, good 5-wood on to the green.  I had a 20-foot eagle putt, birdie. 
 5, 6-iron to 16 feet.  Good shot in there. 
 8, yeah just missed the fairway.  Had to lay up.  Didn't play the best third shot.  2-putt bogey. 
 14, lovely 4-iron shot on the par 3, about 16 foot probably again.  Nice putt there, straight in. 
 15, I spun it back against the fringe actually.  Quite a tough shot.  I putted it from about probably ideal distance again, probably 16 foot. 
 17, I hit a great drive.  I almost had a very similar second shot to 18, just scamp it down there and hit a bunker shot to three feet. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  Very well played.  Good luck tomorrow. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT