THE QUINN DIRECT BRITISH MASTERS
September 21, 2007
Mark Foster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   RODDY WILLIAMS:  Mark, thanks for coming in and joining us.  That was a hell of a round in some pretty tough conditions.  How difficult was it out there and how did you make it look so easy?   
 MARK FOSTER:  I don't know about easy, but yes, it's very difficult.  The greens are key.  You've got to hit it in the right position on the greens and every putt is fast two or three foot of breaks, sort of like major greens really where you're looking to hit the ball -- you have to look where you can get to to get a chance and I think it's the greens that are the hardest definitely.   
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  You had a 3-putt bogey on the last, but you had eagles and birdies and a lot of the card today.   
 MARK FOSTER:  Yeah, I just missed the fairway on 9.  The rough is quite kick.  I knocked it a foot on the green and actually it was a 2-putt really on the front edge, 50, 60 foot away.  When you get that far away, you can't come back and if I hit it any firmer on the second putt, it would have gone back the other side.  So it was a good five really.   
  
  Q.  (Boys from Worksop leading the tournament).   
MARK FOSTER:  Yeah, I had dinner with Westy and his dad last night.  Yeah, it's a very good day for Worksop golf, definitely.   
  
  Q.  (About recent form).   
 MARK FOSTER:  Probably I've been doing -- well, I've been solid for a few weeks and my putting has kept me out of being noticed really.  I've been working hard on that.   
 Last week I worked so hard on my putting and didn't hit it as good and my object this week was to find some middle ground with all aspects of the game and that's obviously what I've found the first two days and today.   
  
  Q.  Hard to put it all together?   
 MARK FOSTER:  Yeah, I think that's what drives me crazy, really.  Probably building momentum to the last day really.  I'm trying to work on -- I don't keep mentally good enough for four rounds and I've got to learn to do that.  Last week Thursday I was mentally poor and then put three good rounds.  I just go in and out and am sporadic.  I've got to learn to be consistent mentally.   
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  Are you working with anyone on that side of the game?   
 MARK FOSTER:  Not really.  My coach listens and tries to put me right.  I am sort of searching for someone at the moment but not finding the right guy and hopefully someone I can work a lot with.   
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  Who is your coach?   
 MARK FOSTER:  Pete Cowen.  Pete Cowen.   
  
  Q.  Do you see anyone shooting 70 in the afternoon?   
 MARK FOSTER:  I actually didn't check the scores.  I saw Westy was 70 -- I didn't know what.   
 The greens are going to dry out.  The greens are faster and they are getting firmer, and as they dry out it's going to be even harder.  Anybody who is shooting 70 this afternoon I would say is the equivalent of 4- or 5-under par.  Maybe 75 or 76 this afternoon.   
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  Can we rattle through the details of your card?   
 MARK FOSTER:  11, chipped in.  Only about a 15-foot shot but just off the back edge and decided to chip it.  It was a great shot.   
 13, nice wedge shot, and again downwind to about six feet and just rolled it in.   
 14, rolled a 4-iron to 12 feet.  It was playing straight into the wind.   
 16, just got the wind wrong.  Put it on the front edge and took three to get down.  The wind was moving around.  That was another difficult part today.   
 17, a good drive, fairway wood into the green-side bunker.  Good bunker shot to about 10, 12 feet and holed the putt.   
 2, a good drive.  I just had a lob-wedge, 90-yard shot and hit it to about four feet.   
 3, great drive up there and was in between 5-wood and 3-wood really and came with 5-wood and it was a good shot, I hit a great shot to 15 feet straight down the flag and it left me a pretty straight putt and rolled it in.  Just solid shot in there.   
 8 is playing monstrous.  It was a solid drive into the gap and a 5-wood to probably about 12 feet again.   
 9 I hit a poor tee shot away from the flag and played it from the left and three putts.   
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  Very well played and good luck over the weekend.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT