ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 27, 2013
Mark Foster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How satisfied are you with these two days of action?   
MARK FOSTER:   Yeah, really good.   Really satisfied today, because following a low one up is never really that easy, so played really good and pleased with where I am.  
   
 Q.   Lovely conditions for it.   
MARK FOSTER:   Yeah, obviously links's main defense is probably the weather, so there's plenty of chances out there but you've still got to execute and take them.   
   
 Q.   Presumably you feel that onus on you to take advantage, knowing that the weather is as good as it's going to get.   
MARK FOSTER:   Well, that was the good thing, to get a good rounds under your belt yesterday, and I made some birdies.   I guess you'd rather be at that end once you've made some than having to chase.  
   
 Q.   How does it compare with how you've played this event in the past?   
MARK FOSTER:   When I first started, all right, and I've been a bit mediocre since.   I made a 3 on 17 and I can't remember making many 4s, so that's definitely one back to me.   You obviously normally don't make too many 3s on there but better than average.  
   
 Q.   Enjoy the format and style of it?  
MARK FOSTER:   Yeah, very much so.   You know what you're getting when you get here, there's a lot of nice people around.   They are long rounds but that's how they are and you've just got to be sociable, and it's good.   I enjoy the form.   
   
 Q.   And you know exactly what you're going to get so you've got to relax into it, haven't you.   You can't fuss about slow play.   
MARK FOSTER:   Exactly, so you have to prepare for that and play at the right pace.  
   
 Q.   On to the toughest course now.   
MARK FOSTER:   Yeah, actually I've not been across there.   My caddie has, so he will hopefully guide me around tomorrow and we'll be all right.   
   
 Q.   Anything I should ask you?   
MARK FOSTER:   No, quiet stuff, sorry.   Well, pitched in on 11, forgot about that.   Quite good, really.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT