JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 23, 2013
Mark Foster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What was the story today, more of the same? 
MARK FOSTER:   Very, exactly, woke up this morning, a bit of fog around but once you're up, you want to play, so we were ready for the conditions.   Yeah, pleased with the day. 

Q.   Scoring well on the first day in good conditions, but it's better in the morning, is it? 
MARK FOSTER:   Well, in general, it was this morning, but you never know.   I knew it was nice, the flags were calm, so just try to make the most of that.

Q.   Seems like just about every element of the game is going nicely, isn't it? 
MARK FOSTER:   Yeah, it's been a solid two days, yeah.   Actually practise has been going good, and, yeah, played the way I've been practicing, so that makes a change really.

Q.   A couple of lovely putts, including the one from off the green to nestle it close?
MARK FOSTER:   Yeah, exactly.   The flags are a bit trickier today actually, so a couple of really good long putts, which look pretty casual when you're rolling them down there stone dead, but they are really good putts to get, so pleased with that.

Q.   How good does it feel that you're competitive once again after maybe a frustrating time during the season?
MARK FOSTER:   Well, took me nine holes yesterday really where I felt I was playing well, and then somewhere out there, obviously a leaderboard was telling me‑‑ but certainly not until the end of the second round did I start to feel competitive.

Q.   And you've been looking at the leaderboards and know you're in a lovely competitive position?
MARK FOSTER:   Not actively looking but yeah, knew I was playing well.   I knew I was edging my way into the tournament. 

Q.   How difficult was to follow up a good first day with that score?
MARK FOSTER:   Yeah, I was out there and I was missing a few putts early on, trying to use the famous word, patience, and it did pay off in the end really, because I managed to hole a few putts towards the end. 

Q.   The commentary team yesterday described you as England's Jason Dufner; your thoughts? 
MARK FOSTER:   I'm too animated when it goes wrong, but I can see where they are going with that.   Yeah, I'm not the most excitable person out there.   My wife will normally grumble at my celebration, but yeah, I'm probably over‑animated when it goes the other way, but I won't mind following him in some footsteps, that's for sure.

Q.   What's been the spark to this performance? 
MARK FOSTER:   Maybe Russia.   I had three weeks off since then, but the idea of going to Russia was to find my game because it's been missing for a long period.   So I kind of worked and I was hoping in three weeks off it would still be when I got here, and it is. 
The golf course, it's playing different this year, and got a couple of practise rounds in, it's just firmer.   That suits me really.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT