JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 22, 2013
Mark Foster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Your thoughts on shooting a score like that around here? 
MARK FOSTER:   Yeah, perfect, going out in the afternoon, you don't know‑‑ just wanted to get out, the wind was a bit blustery and wanted to control the ball.   Played better than I thought I was going to do. 

Q.   Tiny spots of rain, grey skies and still there for the taking, isn't it?
MARK FOSTER:   Yeah, it firm and there's more chances but that brings a bit of trouble into play, as well.   It's firm and more reachable and the firmest it's ever been since I've been here.   It brings different opportunities in on some of the longer holes.

Q.   Down to the British summer I guess, it's the first time they have had a summer in a little while?
MARK FOSTER:   Yeah, I think that's what it is, and the design is to get the greens firmer so it's obviously working.

Q.   Is it fair to say that you have an affinity with the course?   You've played well on a number of occasions. 
MARK FOSTER:   Yeah, I've had a lot of good rounds here, obviously one where I played really well but I've always had low rounds and that was in the back of my mind, and I'm in a position where I need low rounds.   I was hoping there was going to be one but certainly not taking one for granted, that's for sure. 

Q.   Did you feel good coming into the week, as well as that expectation, feeling good about the game?
MARK FOSTER:   I'm not sure you can, you're fresh off three weeks off, I'm not sure‑‑ you're in No Man's Land, really.   You obviously want to play well, but yeah, you don't know what's going to come out really, after three weeks. 
I just said to my caddie, I hit a couple of squiffy shots early on and I said, no matter how many balls you hit, once you get playing after three weeks off, it's just a totally different feeling, but came through that quite nice.

Q.   It does beg the question, what do you do with that three weeks, because unusual to have it in the height of August. 
MARK FOSTER:   Yeah, I did a lot of summery stuff, I'm a big cricket fan so went to watch a lot of cricket with friends and enjoyed that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT