WGC MEXICO CHAMPIONSHIP
February 23, 2020
Tyrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Final round 68, what are your thoughts on that?  
TYRELL HATTON: I'm actually disappointed. I played really good today, just didn't really hole any putts. I've given myself so many chances and still had a decent score going, and then the last three holes is just really disappointing, soft wedge into 16, missed the green. We got the wind wrong on 17, made bogey there, and made a poor wedge shot to finish into 18.   
So there was three good chances, and to play them in 1-over is annoying. But tied sixth at the moment, so if you told me that at the start of the week, I obviously would have taken that my first week back, and hopefully I can build on that the rest of the year.   
 Q.  What do you think about the scoring?  
TYRELL HATTON: I think scoring on Sundays might generally be a little bit worse since I guess it's the final day and the kind of pressures that come with that. It seems the leaders there's a bit more pressure on, but when you're teeing off where I am, there's not too much pressure when you're high 10s and above sort of thing.   
But I think the course was -- maybe it played a little bit more inconsistent than the previous days. There was some interesting bounces on the greens that obviously you just can't account for, but it is what it is.   
 Q.  Take us through a couple of highlights. The one at 9?  
TYRELL HATTON: Yeah, that was really important to birdie the 8th and then to get back on track after making bogey on 7. Holed a really nice putt on 8, actually. After how the first seven holes had gone, I was surprised the ball fell in the hole. And then hit a lovely shot into 9, which was a tap-in birdie there, so kind of off and running. I'm a little bit disappointed with not birdieing 11 and 12, as well, but these things happen.   
 Q.  You birdied 14 and 15, then 16, take us through those.  
TYRELL HATTON: Well, the birdie on 14, holed a nice putt there from about 20 feet, and then a good putt downhill on 15 from about eight feet. 16 was a good up-and-down after one of the worst wedge shots I've hit all week. Yeah.   
 Q.  The par putt on 17, just take us through that?  
TYRELL HATTON: Yeah, that was the fastest I've seen Nick move all week actually, but I'm still actually shocked that that putt missed. It was dead weight, high side. It was just incredible for it to not fall in. But these things happen.   
 Q.  Your first tournament back after two and a half months. Did you exceed your expectations for this week?  
TYRELL HATTON: Yeah, I think so. I didn't really know where my game was at coming into this week, although I'd kind of done a decent amount of practice in the previous three weeks with my dad, but once you get under tournament conditions, you just don't know quite how you're going to play.   
Yeah, I'm still a little bit surprised with how I've generally played over the four days. There's certainly signs that there's a bit of rust, especially with the putter. That's normally a strong point for me, and I feel like I definitely struggled over the course of this week.   
But like I said earlier, if you had told me I was going to finish tied sixth this week, I'd have been over the moon.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT