WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 29, 2019
Tyrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You now move on.  What was this day like for you with all these scenarios bouncing around?  
TYRELL HATTON: Yeah, it was obviously going to be an interesting day.  I think our group was the only group where it could have been a four-way playoff.   
But I'm really happy with how I played today.  Felt comfortable on the greens and hold out pretty well inside 6 to 8 feet, which I'm quite pleased with.  I feel like after yesterday I'm happy with how I played, because I struggled in yesterday's conditions and hit a few balls on the range.  I felt a little more comfortable.  Just didn't feel like I was aiming quite a bit left today.  I was hitting straight.  I am delighted to make it through the group and looking forward to the next round.   
 Q.  How would you describe your play in match play this week?  
TYRELL HATTON: Well, I'm fairly aggressive anyway, which I guess in match play you have to be.  At the end of the day you just have to try your best and hopefully beat the guy in front of you.   
 Q.  Kind of a nervous day.  I don't know if it was nervous for you, it was hard for us to figure out all the possibilities.  But I guess the first thing that had to happen was you to win and you did that nicely.  
TYRELL HATTON: Yeah, I'm really happy with how I played today.  I got up fairly early in the match.  Lee had a couple of bogeys.  So I was 3-up I think through 8.   
I was disappointed to lose 9.  We got a bit mixed up with our yardages there.  So we airmailed the green, which isn't ideal to a back pin.  But all of a sudden Lee makes a hole-in-one on 11, and we go from 3-up to 1-up in a couple of holes.  And I guess that's the beauty of match play.  You just have to keep going and stay sort of mentally strong and try not to let any more momentum slip away.   
I'm happy with how I played the back nine in general.  And I'm delighted to win.   
 Q.  Did you know how the other matches stood?  
TYRELL HATTON: We kept an eye on it, and knew that they were square playing 17.  But had no idea what was happening after.   
 Q.  So you needed to make sure you won your match and you did that.  Tell us about that.  
TYRELL HATTON: I'm really happy to win my match this morning.  I enjoyed the conditions a bit more today.  It wasn't so brutal.  It was more pleasant to play golf.  But I was comfortable out there.  I was happy on the greens.  And like I said, really happy to win my match.   
 Q.  But there's other things that could have happened.  So how aware were you of what was happening in front of you?  
TYRELL HATTON: Obviously we had a little bit of an eye on the leaderboard to see what was happening.  It could have been quite interesting for TV if I lost and Rafa winning, we could have had a four-way playoff.  But thankfully I won my match and I'm looking forward to the weekend now.   
 Q.  This game is all about frustration now and again and a bit of elation.  Frustration yesterday and elation now.  Tell us about the weekend, because that's going to be special, the last 16.  
TYRELL HATTON: Yeah, it's going to be good.  I got through to the weekend last year with a playoff.  Ended up losing to Cameron Smith.  So hopefully I can do a better job tomorrow, although I played really well that day to lose.  That's the beauty of match play.   
 Q.  Enjoying this week?  
TYRELL HATTON: Yeah, my fiancée loves it here.  It's her favorite place.  And I've got her parents here and we're having a good week.  We've enjoyed some barbecue food last night.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT