THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2017
Tyrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What are your expectations for this week being the first time playing THE PLAYERS?  
TYRELL HATTON: It's the same as any other week.  You know, every tournament you're here to win, and hopefully I can play well and give myself a chance on Sunday.   
 Q.  And your thoughts on the course?  
TYRELL HATTON: Well, I've only played the back nine at the moment.  I'm going to play the front nine this afternoon.  But no, it looks great so far.  I'm looking forward to the weekend.   
 Q.  You played 17 yesterday; how did that go for you?  
TYRELL HATTON: It was okay.  The green was a bit wider than I thought it would be.  It's easy in practice.   
 Q.  What would be considered a successful week for you here?  
TYRELL HATTON: Top 10 is a good week, but obviously it's to try and win.   
 Q.  Compared to other events, does your preparation change at all?  
TYRELL HATTON: No, not at all.  You just have to treat it like other tournament, and that's what I'm doing, just playing nine holes each day, and just go from there.   
 Q.  What does the course require, what kind of shots?  
TYRELL HATTON: Well, my shot shape is pretty neutral.  I never think about shaping the golf ball, so I just -- I pick my lines and just hit it at that, and I just like it keep it simple.   
 Q.  Compared to other events, how does this rank?  
TYRELL HATTON: Yeah, obviously this is classed as the fifth major, so it's a massive tournament.  You can tell by all the spectators there were yesterday.  It's a good atmosphere here.   
 Q.  How does it feel entering this tournament for the first time coming from the last six months?  
TYRELL HATTON: Obviously got a lot of confidence at the moment.  It's been a really good start to the year for me, so hopefully I can play well this week and give myself another chance to win.   
 Q.  What do you think changed?  What clicked that made everything happen for you?  
TYRELL HATTON: It's hard to put a finger on it really.  The big changing point was from the Scottish Open last year where I had my dad as my coach.  He came up to the tournament and we did a lot of good work at the start of the week, and I started swinging the club really well, and I gave myself a lot of confidence and ended up finishing second that week, which then got me into the Open, and it just started a really good run for me.  I've just sort of managed to carry it on from there really.   
 Q.  Everybody talks about this tournament like it's the fifth major, but coming here for the first time, having practiced for the first time out on this course, is there something specific at this venue that kind of intimidates?  What is the thing that hits you the most about this course?  
TYRELL HATTON: Yeah, it's known as the fifth major, but you still have to treat it like any other tournament.  Obviously the 17th has got its reputation, and it's certainly a hole that I'm looking forward to playing once the tournament gets started.  But apart from that, it's just -- you just have to treat it like another week and just try to play as well as you can.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT