U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 14, 2013
Gary Wolstenholme
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Well played.   How did you do the 3 under?   
GARY WOLSTENHOLME:   Really, it was about steady scoring.   I made a few putts at the right time.   Obviously, I made a 2 on 17, which helps a lot.   Great to play with Tim Thelen, who is playing on our Senior Circuit in Europe, so we've done very well.   I think that helps too.  
But that too certainly made a big difference, and sort of gave me an opportunity to finish with a good score, really, but it was just about good scrambling, good putting, and hitting the right shots at the right time.   I didn't do anything particularly spectacular.   Just kept it in play.  
   
 Q.   Having more rounds at the Omaha Country Club and knowing your experience at Championships such as the Senior Open, do you think there's a score out there for the leaders to take, or is it going to be a balance of people backing up and maybe some other guys who are going out a little bit earlier, coming, getting a chance to post a score?   
GARY WOLSTENHOLME:   I think we were lucky this morning.   The greens were the best they've been all week, a bit quicker.   So that obviously makes it a little more difficult, particularly on the shorter putts.   You've got to be a lot more careful.   It's very easy to just let one slip out.  
But I think it's more to do with just playing your own game, not trying to get ahead of yourself.   And obviously, just play shot for shot.   I mean, that's fairly obvious.   These guys know that.  
But with the wind getting up, it's actually very difficult.   Hitting fairways is going to be the key.   If you hit fairways, then obviously it makes it a lot easier to make your score.  
Because once you miss a fairway here, you're really having to become very defensive, typical U.S. Open, really.   But I would imagine that the leaders are going to have a hard time initially trying to get sub par.   Once they get sub par, then they'll probably relax a little bit.   And I think it's going to be who relaxes, gets a couple of first shots under par maybe early on the front nine.   
Then the back nine is just really holding on to it.  
There's some key holes, obviously, out there like 8.   18, obviously, as well.   It's a great finishing hole.   Even though they've got the tee a little bit further up, it's hitting that fairway.   Wind's off the right, and it's actually quite a tough fairway to hit because of the slopes.   
But the par 3s‑‑ you know, obviously there's five par 3s, so it's going to be about that sort of shot making as well.  
   
 Q.   If you hit the fairways, what are the best scoring chances on the last nine holes, do you think?   
GARY WOLSTENHOLME:   I would say it's definitely possible to shoot 2 or 3 under.   It depends on how well you're putting, obviously.   Putting is going to be the key as well.   But it's holding your nerve because the wind's getting up there.   It's standing on those elevated tees, knowing that you've got to hit a fairway.   
That's the hardest part a lot of the time.   It's about who can trust their swing under pressure, and it's not going to be the guy that's feeling nervous, that's for sure, because standing on a couple of those tees, looking down at the fairway and thinking, well, I've got to aim really for half the width of the fairway to be able to stay on the fairways.   
That's the hard part, really.   It's about trusting your swing.  
   
 Q.   Good answers.   Good luck the rest of the season.   Thanks, Gary.   
GARY WOLSTENHOLME:   Thank you very much.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT