ROLAND GARROS
May 30, 2019
Antoine Hoang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. HOANG/F. Verdasco   
6-4, 3-6, 7-6, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  I just wondered if you've experienced an atmosphere like that.  The noise on that court was incredible.  Can you just explain what it meant to play in front of that kind of crowd.  
ANTOINE HOANG: No, for me first time for me to play in front of so many people.  Such a great atmosphere like that.  I think from the first point to the last point, there is so much noise between every point.   
There's an "Ola" before the match.  No, I think it's very well to play like that.  Yeah, it's help a lot for me, and...  I try my best (smiling).   
Yeah, it's such a pleasure, and it helps me a lot to enjoy every moment, to stay focused in the present.  Yeah.   
 Q.  That court is quite legendary in French tennis and Roland Garros.  Such a great look.  Are you sad that it's going to disappear?  
ANTOINE HOANG: Yeah, it's a good court.  I think the people is pretty -- not far from the players.  So there is a good noise.   
No, I think the last year the court will be here.  Yeah, I'm a little sad about it, but I could enjoy the moment.  It's good, yeah.   
 Q.  How do you explain what's going on this week?  One tour-level win before this week and here you are in the third round.  
ANTOINE HOANG: I could not explain.  Good things happen to me this time (smiling).   
But I'm a bit lucky sometimes.  Today Fernando serve for the third set.  He did 40-Love on his game, and then the things turn my side.  I don't know.  I can't explain everything.  But I have nothing to lose here, so I try to enjoy every moment, to push every time, every time.   
Sometimes tennis, yeah, some details to make the difference.  I cannot explain everything.   
 Q.  Which are you most excited about, the fact that you got the wildcard to allow you in or that you're here in the third round?  
ANTOINE HOANG: Both (smiling).  I think I couldn't be here without the wildcard, so I have to thank the French Federation for it.   
I think I did everything to be here, so I really enjoy it.  I try to focus on the next round against Gaël.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
 Q.  Well done.  Your coach told me that you're someone who is very mental, who thinks about everything.  What did you do in this match?  You tried to leave your brain elsewhere?  
ANTOINE HOANG: Yeah, I have to focus on the present, on the moment, and let myself be invaded by the event.  We train constantly about the event.  I have been dreaming about this for a long time.  I thought, well, now you're here, you shouldn't be afraid of it, because if you start being afraid, it's a bit absurd.   
So that's what I thought.  I didn't set myself any obligation of result.  Even two days ago, I just said, Well, enjoy, you're where you wanted to be.  There is no reason why I should be afraid.   
 Q.  Did you let your instinct take over when you were playing today?  
ANTOINE HOANG: Yes, I knew that Fernando hits hard, and if I started defending, it would become very complex.  So I tried to play my game, to be on the ball early enough, to prevent him from getting his footing.   
And I believe I did rather well, and I repeated that to myself throughout the match, just, Play as you want to, play as you like to play, and I knew it was a way I could win.   
 Q.  What can you tell us, you were saying at the end of the third set he was leading 40-Love, and then two aces?  
ANTOINE HOANG: Well, then there were two doubles in a row, and then I had a good point, and I thought, well, let's try and get 40-All.  And for a game like this, it's never easy to finish things off and to win I was able to seize the opportunity.  Another day I will be serving for the set and it will turn against me, but this time I just tried to seize the opportunity.   
As I said, these things you can't plan, but you have to seize whatever comes your way.  That's how I felt.   
 Q.  After these two doubles, you played your point, you went up to the net on important points.  Did you think it's my opportunity?  Or is it difficult for you to be offensive when it's the right time?  Because I know that you're working with a mental coach.  Is this the kind of thing that you work on with her?  
ANTOINE HOANG: Well, my game is to attack, so I tried to persuade myself that I should go there, even though it might be counterintuitive, you tend to hold back your shots.  But I tried to repeat to myself that that was how I was going to win.   
And if that's when I run more chance of winning, it's a risk I'm taking.  I tried to go against what my brain would say, to go there whatever happens.  Not put too much pressure on myself for results and think that if it's the right thing to do tactically, and the intention is good, I have no reason to regret or to be upset with myself.   
If I take too much risk and give up too many points, I will try to build a little more.  If I'm too passive, I must be more aggressive.  I had to find the balance when facing a player like Fernando today.   
 Q.  I know that you can play with both hands, and that you very lately decided whether you would play with your right hand or left hand.  
ANTOINE HOANG: Well, the thing is I grew up rather late.  My muscular development led to problems of shoulder, so I decided to train with my left hand, and I made quite a lot of progress.   
So from 12 to 13 years old until 16 or 17 I was progressing.  And then when I started playing at a higher level and playing in the futures, I saw that details are important.  You shouldn't miss important points.   
And having this range of shots was hard for my opponent but also hard for myself.  That's why I decided to let go and concentrate on my strong points.   
 Q.  You had a good forehand for a while, and now I feel your backhand is extremely pure.  Did you work hard to get this backhand?  And is this a recent shot for you?  
ANTOINE HOANG: No, because I started playing tennis when I was a kid with my right hand, so I was playing forehand and backhand normally, but I already had a good backhand.  Then when I got hurt, as I said, I learned to play with my left hand doing the forehand and maybe the left-handed backhand.   
So maybe it's more natural for me.   
 Q.  You said the atmosphere helped you very much today.  We can think in the next match the public will be more divided.  What does it mean playing against Gaël Monfils?  
ANTOINE HOANG: Well, I know Gaël from watching him on TV.  I really enjoyed watching him, whether in Davis Cup or in other international tournaments.   
But he's a very nice person, so I guess the atmosphere of the match will be good.  We're not going to fight each other in that way.  But the public will be behind both of us and will support a good game, so I believe we will both get support from the public.   
 Q.  At the end of the match, we saw that you were trying to contain your joy.  Is it because you didn't realize what had just happened, or because it's more in your nature not to overexpress yourself?  
ANTOINE HOANG: Yes, it's more my nature.  I tried to think that the tournament was not over.  I have to remain focused on what's coming up, on my routines.   
And I tried to contain my joy, even though inside me, well, it's an accomplishment after all, and I did realize what I had done, that it's a kind of a feat.  And I also, with my team, we enjoyed it, because things are not always rosy.  So when you win you have to be able to enjoy it, as well.   
 Q.  Your coach was saying that in the beginning of the match you were putting your fist like this, and at the end, the other side.  
ANTOINE HOANG: Yes, it's true I used a lot of resources throughout my match.  In the beginning I remained concentrated, and then I needed to get things from deeper inside me.  The public was pushing me.   
At the end, I was more liberated and less contained.   
 Q.  I have heard that you smash with your left hand from time to time.  Did you do it since the beginning of the tournament?  I didn't see the two matches.  
ANTOINE HOANG: No, I don't think so.  It's true that I do it from time to time, but not this time.   
 Q.  The question of the court where you're going to play is still up, either Philippe Chatrier or Suzanne Lenglen.  Do you think Philippe Chatrier would support you in your dream?  Where would you like to play?  
ANTOINE HOANG: Well, it's true that the fact that I'm playing against Gaël, I'll probably play on a big court.  We had a small exhibit with Jo on the center court, which means I feel better on that court, but all these things I'm not used to going through.  It's a first for me, and I feel that these things I wanted to go through, I didn't want to be afraid.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT