PENN STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 6, 2016
Chris Godwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Trace mentioned this mornings on the conference call that he felt really confident about attacking Pitt using his outside receivers.  What does that mean to you to know you guys are the kind of go-to weapon for your quarterback?  Also what has that development process been like?  
CHRIS GODWIN: Yeah, it's awesome knowing that your quarterback believes in you and with the weapons that we have in our receiver group as deep as we are, it's something that we're pretty confident in as well.  At the same time it didn't happen overnight.  It took a lot of time to build that rapport with Trace over the course of the off-season.   
So just getting to where we're at now and obviously we still have a lot of room to grow, but we're looking forward to that growth.   
 Q.  When you look at the deep ball, the timing on that for short throws is the same for every quarterback.  But is there an adjustment between how Hack through a deep ball than maybe Trace throws it or is that different from the timing you work on?  
CHRIS GODWIN: No, it's not more of an adjustment.  Just depends on what the defense is doing.  Certain defenses call for certain passes and it matters what the defense is doing and going from there.  At the end of the day when the ball's in the air, it's our job as receivers to go up and get it.   
 Q.  You would know about this better than I would.  But do you feel there is a lot of air under some of the deep ones Trace has thrown or does that not make a difference to you?  
CHRIS GODWIN: No, I don't think it makes a difference.  At the end of the day when the ball is up in the air, it's our job to go up and make the play.   
 Q.  Seemed like you guys were working really hard toward the end to end that game on a positive.  Probably could have put the game away with a few more runs with the clock, but you guys kept throwing.  Is that because the timing is still a work in progress?  How important was it to end the game with a touchdown pass even though it was to Gesicki?  
CHRIS GODWIN: I think it was more of a mindset thing.  As Coach Moorhead likes to say, we're always going to attack.  We're not going to be on the passive end of things.  No matter what point of the game it is, we're going to keep attacking.  That was he have dense of that.  It was awesome to see Mike get that touchdown.  Regardless whoever makes the play, we're all in it together.   
 Q.  How do you guys practice catching those 50-50 balls, those jump balls?  I would imagine you use the quarterback, but do you use the jugs machine?  Are you using other things to get more reps in with that?  
CHRIS GODWIN: Yeah, it's a combination of using the jugs machine and getting combination and like our ball drills we do with Coach Gattis.  Constantly working on your ball skills ends up helping you in the long run when it comes to those 50-50 balls.   
 Q.  Correct me if I'm wrong, but you recently joined Twitter, right?  
CHRIS GODWIN: Yes, I have.   
 Q.  What has been your impression of Penn State Twitter and the experiences many on social media?  Also coming into a game like this, there are a lot of voices externally about the excitement of the game and maybe some negative things.  How have you handled adjusting to that?  Has it been an adjustment for you?  
CHRIS GODWIN: I don't think it's been an adjustment for me.  While I am on Twitter, I don't really tweet too much.  But it is cool being on there and seeing all the support that we get from the Penn State fans, Penn State people.  Just like any time any of our pages put out anything about one of us, the constant retweets and likes that we get is awesome.  And coming into a game like this, each and every week we get constant support.  So that support is awesome to see.   
 Q.  James said he recently discovered the mute button.  Have you had to use yours?  
CHRIS GODWIN: Say again?   
 Q.  James Franklin said he recently discovered the mute button on Twitter, have you had to use yours?  
CHRIS GODWIN: No, I haven't had to use mine yet.   
 Q.  I know James Franklin said when he looks at this rivalry and the history in 2000 you were just a little kid.  What have the coaches tole you guys about the history of this rivalry?  
CHRIS GODWIN: We've heard different things from our coaching staff.  Obviously Coach Smith has been a part of it, so he gave us the background.  But like Coach Franklin said, when the last time this rivalry was played we were 4 or 5.  So outside of what Coach Smith and the other coaches have told us, we don't know much about it.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
CHRIS GODWIN: No, it was just a regular talk just explaining everything.  Explaining the rivalry and history behind it.  But outside of that we treat it as a normal game because it's our next game on the schedule and now it's our most important game.   
 Q.  Just dovetailing off of that, this is one of the most storied rivalries in college football.  How excited are you to actually be playing in the renewal of this rivalry and also, too, can you elaborate on what you see from their secondary on film after that?  
CHRIS GODWIN: Yeah, I mean, honestly, it's an honor to play in a Penn State game period.  I'm honored to be a part of this program.  So each and every time I get a chance to step on the field I'm excited about that.  The fact that the history behind this game makes it pretty cool.   
As far as Pitt's secondary, they're a really talented group.  They have some experience coming back in there.  They're a really aggressive group as well.  It's going to take a lot of time in practice, watching film and seeing what they do good and what they do better and try to attack that using my technique and our technique as receivers.   
 Q.  You guys are focused on the game.  But how aware are you of everyone else and their focus on the rivalry and the history?  Are you guys aware that everybody's been talking about this for years?  
CHRIS GODWIN: Yeah, yeah.  We're very aware of what's going on around us.  Like I said earlier, we see the stuff on Twitter and on social media and stuff like that.  We understand the history behind it.  So we're not naive to the fact of what everybody else is is a saying.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT