PENN STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 20, 2015
Chris Godwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What kind of practice does it take to master riding one of those things, seriously?  
CHRIS GODWIN: Honestly, it only took me about like 20 to 30 minutes to really get it down pat, and from there it just takes a little bit more practice, just using it and getting comfortable with it.  It doesn't take long at all.   
 Q.  Chris, just take me through that 4th and 2.  I know Coach talked about after the game that you were on the outside on that play, correct?  
CHRIS GODWIN: Yeah, yeah.   
 Q.  You were the first read or the second read; obviously there's a lot of factors, but just take me through it in your eyes.  
CHRIS GODWIN: Yeah, so I was the second read on the play, and so from what the defense was showing us, I mean, it was a little bit of -- it was a little cloudy just because we were in such a tight formation.  With the rush that they were getting on Christian, I could see how it was a little clouded from his vision, and so with the progression of the play, there was like four or five reads, and so like there was a lot of like outstanding circumstances that we couldn't really control.   
 Q.  You've made a couple circus catches this season.  Do you practice that at all or maybe how can you practice that?  
CHRIS GODWIN: Honestly, it just comes down to focus, just things that we work on, that the receivers work on every day with Coach Gattis.  We do ball drills before and after practice, so just things like that just allow you to be able to make the 50/50 catches when they present themselves.   
 Q.  If you could take us back to the play in the second half when you dragged Apple for 20 couple yards.  He's a pretty solid cornerback, so what kind of numbers are you putting up in the weight room to be able to do that?  You've done that a lot this season.  
CHRIS GODWIN: Yeah, honestly, I just think it was a -- I just think it was a matter of just me just making a play.  Christian gave me a great ball, and at that point in time it was just up to me to make the 50/50 catch, which I was able to do, and from there I was just trying to do whatever I could to get into the end zone.  He was holding on pretty good.  Like you said, he's a pretty solid player.  So from that point on, it was just up to me to make the play.   
 Q.  What about the offense in general?  Are you guys a little frustrated that you're not able to put some more consistent points on the board, or how do you evaluate kind of the body of work this year?  
CHRIS GODWIN: It's not really frustration at all.  We understand the type of offense that we can be.  It's just up to us to go ahead and execute.  We have to continue to work hard in practice each and every week and follow the game plan that our coaching staff puts together and just go from there and execute when it comes to game day.  The only people that we can blame for it is ourselves.  Like I said, we have to go out and execute and put in the hard work to make it happen.   
 Q.  What wide receiver either in the NFL or around college football do you look up to or would you like to be similar to?  
CHRIS GODWIN: I try to be the best receiver that I can be.  I try to not like emulate any one receiver in particular.  I like to try to take different things from different players all around the country and from like the higher levels.  I'm a fan of Dez Bryant, I'm a fan of Julio Jones and things like that.  The more physical receivers that they make the 50/50 catches and they constantly make plays for their team.   
 Q.  What's it like playing in an offense with a guy like Saquon?  
CHRIS GODWIN: It's pretty awesome.  You know, like the offense -- preferably you would like to have a really good running game and a really good passing game to complement each other, and that's what we're building here with Saquon and Akeel and all our other running backs doing what they're doing in the running game.  It opens up things for us in the passing game, and vice versa.   
 Q.  What's it like when you're on the sideline occasionally and you get a chance to kind of watch him run?  What's that experience like, or in practices?  
CHRIS GODWIN: Yeah, like watching him in practices is pretty special.  As you guys know, he's a special kid, and he's only going to get better as he gets more experience, as he keeps working and keeps his head down.  He's going to keep getting better and better.  So just watching what he can do right now just as a true freshman is pretty special.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT