SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 30, 2016
Ashley Lau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You've just had your first experience at Sime Darby LPGA Malaysia.  Can you put into words exactly how you feel right now?
ASHLEY LAU: I'm pretty happy with how I played over the four days, and having to play with the pros, Christina, she helped me a lot.  She taught me a lot on the course and I'm just really happen he.
Q. What were some of the best experiences with the pros, little moments that you could share?
ASHLEY LAU: Probably playing birdies.  It's really tough to play birdies because of the greens.  It's really hard to read the lines and stuff.  But they taught me a lot.  Like they taught me, we were talking and we were talking about universities and stuff.  So yeah.
Q. Tell me more about Christina.  She's quite a character.
ASHLEY LAU: She is.  I really like here.  I really like playing with her over the two days, and I was just -- I obviously didn't play well yesterday, and I didn't play well today and she didn't play well today.  She still had a smiling face and we were still talking over the 18 holes, yeah.
Q. You've done very well versus a lot of your competitors.  Do you think the secret to your success is you've been really study throughout this whole process?
ASHLEY LAU: Probably, yeah.  I've been practicing hard throughout this year and I've been playing good before this tournament.  So I was confident coming into this tournament, so I prepared myself, yeah.
Q. At the end of the round, you had a double-bogey on 18, and I saw that you were pretty downcast about it.  What did you do to bring yourself back up and recharge yourself?
ASHLEY LAU: I didn't worry about my scores, round two.  Just crossing over, I just told myself, it's a new mine, it's a new start, and just forget about the past, start anew.
Q. Lastly standing here now at these four days versus how you thought it would be like at the end of it, how does it compare?
ASHLEY LAU: I thought that I would be more nervous than I am right now and I'm not nervous at all to be honest.  I'm just really like happy and excited of how I played, so, yeah.
Q. What are you looking forward to?
ASHLEY LAU: Maybe qualifying next year and playing here again.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT