PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY SEEPUERTORICO.COM
March 6, 2014
Erick Morales
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Erick, you had a good round today, 1‑under.   How do you feel?   This is the second time, right?
ERICK MORALES:   Yeah, it's my second time.   It felt awesome out there.   I had only one bogey.   I was hitting the ball pure, perfect, and just felt really good the entire round.

Q.   Obviously it the second time, but the first time there must have been a lot of nerves.   Was it different this time starting off?
ERICK MORALES:   You know, I remember when I played in 2010, that first tee I was just shaking.   But after that I played a lot of World Amateur events, and that‑‑ when you're on like the top level playing, you're past that, then all that comes is just one more day on the golf course.   Today I was surprised that I was more nervous last night than I was this morning when I was going to tee off, but since I feel so good with my game, I just felt confident, and I wasn't that much nervous. 

Q.   Tell us a little bit about the golf course.   How well do you know it and how has it been playing?
ERICK MORALES:   I've been playing here since it opened.   It's in great conditions.   I think it's the best year it's been for the Puerto Rico Open.   It was blowing out there pretty good.   It was tough.   It was playing okay.   Some holes we played them shorter, but regularly, it played good.

Q.   You brought up wind.   How did you deal with that this week?
ERICK MORALES:   Well, we're used to it here in Puerto Rico.   We play in the wind all the time, so it's just one more day on the golf course.   We're used to this.

Q.   You have Amaury Nolasco as your caddie.   Tell us a little bit about that story. 
ERICK MORALES:   Well, he's been real good friends with me since a couple years back.   He's like my older brother, so he calls me up and says, Papi, I need two things:   He goes, first, I want you to get me a spot in the pro‑am to play.   I said, yeah, no problem.   He goes, second, if you play, please let me caddie for you.   I was like, yeah, no problem. 
He's been a great help.   He's been great motivation.   He loves golf.   We have a good combination.   We had a great time out there.   It's like just playing with my brother.   It was great. 

Q.   Anything you want to say to Puerto Rico?
ERICK MORALES:   Well, just for the players that are here, thanks for coming, and keep supporting this event.   It's real important for our island to expose our island, and we're grateful we're having this event here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT