WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: ROUND ONE
March 7, 2006
Phil Brassington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. (Inaudible)?   
 PHIL BRASSINGTON:  Not sure.  Because we got a little different approach towards him with me throwing.  Not really sure how it's going to work out yet.  What I'm hoping to do is just get out there and put some guys' timing off.  Change it up a little bit.  Slow their pace down.  Just got to play defense.  Obviously from tonight we know that we need to do a little bit of work on our hitting and on our defense.   
 So we're just, we just go out there and play as well as we can.   
  Q.  What do you think this means to your country in terms of its baseball development this tournament?   
 PHIL BRASSINGTON:  It's a good question.  I think it's really another level for us.  A lot of guys have played at the Olympic level where we haven't had the major league guys in a lot of that competition.  So it's a big step for us and it's something that the kids to look at to see it on the TV and in such a big situation, that's a big step for us because they need something to look up to and to look to somewhere to go.   
 If kids are thinking about playing baseball and the baseball community has something like this to look to, it's definitely going to keep people in the game and around the game.   
  Q.  What are you hearing from back home?  Are you hearing some good things in terms of people watching?   
 PHIL BRASSINGTON:  Yeah, getting over here I think we're all getting a lot of e-mails from people trying to find out when the games are on, trying to -- people are quite excited about getting to see us on TV and getting to see us come up against a lot of the players that they have been watching for years.   
  Q.  There was talk when you're going up against Dominican Republic, Venezuela, anything can happen when a guy pitches well.  And guess that's what Jason did tonight.   
 PHIL BRASSINGTON:  Yeah.  Exactly.  That's what tournament baseball is all about.  Usually the first to score seems to win a lot in tournament play.  And that's what you want to try and do is get out there, score early and get on to know of the pitching.   
 Pitching basically tends to dominate in tournament play, it always has and it probably always will.  You make bad pitches, you're going to give up runs.  You walk guys, you put runners on like we did tonight, runs are going to score.  So we can't afford to do that, and we got to basically reassess what we did wrong and try and eliminate that from our game in the next two.   
  Q.  Obviously you know that you're up against a lot.  What is the mindset going into these two games?  Do you want to represent well?   
 PHIL BRASSINGTON:  Well, we're not expecting to win every game.  We're not here to try and win, we are here to play as well as we can and execute properly and execute well.  If we do that, we can compete.  Baseball's a funny game, everybody's been around and knows that.  And anything can happen on any given day.  So we got to eliminate the mistakes and learn each day and hopefully we can keep guys close and who knows, we might get a bounce.  Might get a play our way and that can swing it around.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT