PACIFIC-12 CONFERENCE MEDIA DAY
July 26, 2013
Mike MacIntyre
Paul Richardson
Chidera Uzo-Diribe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We welcome Colorado, Mike MacIntyre, Paul Richardson and Chidera Uzo‑Diribe.   Coach, if you can make an opening statement.   
COACH MACINTYRE:   First of all, what a great honor it is for us to be here today.   We appreciate y'all coming out on Pac‑12 Media Day, and I can't tell you how blessed and honored I am to be the head football coach at Colorado.   I have two great young men with me here, Chidera and Paul, and they will represent our team well on the football field.   We got there about six months ago and our guys have hit the field running fast.   
Our coaches have done a great job in recruiting and our weight program, our young men worked hard all summer and we can't wait for August 5th.   When we start and August6th we will have our first day of practice and begin with the fundamentals and keep working from there.   The future is bright, no matter what you hear out there, our future is going to be bright and we're going to work hard and make the right steps and do it the right way.   What we will do from here is take the questions from you, defense on this side, offense on this side and I'll take special teams questions.   Thank you very much and we will take questions.   
   
 Q.   Paul, what was the 2012 season like for you, having to watch your team mates from the side lines?   What were you able to take away from that as you were getting ready to get back on the field for 2013?   
PAUL RICHARDSON:   It was a humbling experience not being able to compete with my teammates and you can't help but wonder and think about what I could be doing to help them.   
During the off‑season I took time to gain weight, get stronger, faster, get healthy so I would be able to help my guys during the off‑season coming into fall camp.   
   
 Q.   Coach, question about Paul.   You said you got here six months ago.   What did you see in him that was beyond the football field in his determination to get back from such a tough injury?   
COACH MACINTYRE:   Well, when I first got there I met with our trainer.   First I met with all the players individually, found out what their situations were and then I met with our trainer and talked about Paul.   Paul was relentless in getting well, in pushing back to get going.   He had an opportunity, probably last year, he pushed himself so hard about the middle of the season he may be could have come back, but they made a decision to make sure he was "full go" when we went out to spring practice he didn't want to be out of anything.   
We made him put on a gold shirt at first.   He didn't want that on he took it off in practice and went by himself.   I think his effort and determination the players on the team saw.   They know how good of a player he is and how hard he worked to get back.   
   
 Q.   We have a fan question for you, Coach, from Twitter.   Why do you feel CU has struggled for the past seven seasons to consistently win and why can you make it happen?   
COACH MACINTYRE:   I don't know much about the last seven seasons.   I just know what we're going to do as a staff.   I think one of the things that we will be able to do, we have to develop trust in our young men and they have to trust us, we have to trust them.   We're in the process of doing that now.   
I have a phenomenal coaching staff.   I think that's one of the reasons we will be successful and also our overall program and I tell you the other thing, Phil is going to step up behind us and get things moving in the right direction with a building plan of a $170 million facility that we're in the process of working on and getting going is exciting.   All of those put together will make it successful, it's not just Mike MacIntyre, I can promise you that.   It's me, the whole group of people that I have with me and the University and the fans backing us all they can.   
   
 Q.   Mike, can you compare the situation you inherited at Colorado with when you arrived at San Jose State, what the challenges are, how they're the same or different or more difficult?   
COACH MACINTYRE:   How you doin', Jeff?   There are always similarities but there's always differences.   The first thing we have to do is work with these young men, get them to believe in us, believe in what we're doing and change the culture.   
When you go into a program that has been losing you have to have some culture change and change is tough sometimes.   You will have some kids that move to committed and some that stay reluctant and we've got too get 'em all going the same direction.   That's what we have to do.   I think the similarities would be that both programs had great history, great times, and it wasn't too long ago Colorado was one of the top‑15 programs in the country year in, year out.   We need to get back there.  
   
 Q.   What are the differences you have noticed so far within the coaching staff?   
CHIDERA UZO‑DIRIBE:   The energy they prey to the meeting room, they bring a lot of energy and passion to their coaching and I think that's the biggest difference I've seen.   
   
 Q.   Coach, you and the guys you have coached under having to places that maybe have had some trouble traditionally and haven't had the best support from the institutions and seem to go willingly, why is that?   
COACH MACINTYRE:   Well, I guess it's a little bit in my DNA.   My dad did the same thing; I watched him rebuild two programs that everyone said could never within win and they did.   I watched him change the culture.   But at the same time when you go to places like that you have young men that are fragile and you can help them build building blocks as people to be successful and I watched all these young men come back and see my dad and young men come back and talk to me about different things and grow.   That's a big part of it.   
David Cutcliffe is one of the best coaches in America, period.   When Duke goes to a Bowl game this year, it will be the first time in the school's history that they have gone to back‑to‑back Bowls, he's done an amazing job I learned a lot from him.   I learned a lot from Bill Parcells, he went to a lot of programs and turned them around.   When he went to the Giants they weren't very good and went to the Jets they weren't very good and when he went to the Cowboys they weren't very good, so I learned from those guys how to do it.   
THE MODERATOR:   Any further questions?   Gentlemen, thank you so much.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT