FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 9, 2013
Ryan Palmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I know you wanted that one on the last hole really bad, but that was a great round of golf today?  
RYAN PALMER:   Yeah, it was.   I just stayed calm all day and relaxed and I had a lot of putts I wish I had back.   I hit a lot of good shots.   I hit the last one too hard and I might be sitting in the same position I was right last year, which is not bad at all.   No, I went bogey-free on the weekend.   That felt pretty special to me when I got down to the end.  
   
 Q.   You got to be proud of the way you hung in there after that start, 2-over par the first day.   It could have gone the other way and you could have been out of here a lot earlier than this.  
RYAN PALMER:   I knew it was going to be a rough, hard week.   This golf course doesn't let up, and I knew if I just played solid that day, I survived the 2-over and kept playing well the rest of the week I would be okay.   
I played great yesterday and really solid today and left a few putts out there, I think, but very happy for the week, obviously, and what an honor to be able to play this week for St. Jude and the City of Memphis.  
   
 Q.   Thanks a lot for coming out and good luck the rest of the year.  
RYAN PALMER:   It was really a solid day.   I'll tell you what, I was really excited about finishing 18 when I went bogey-free on the weekend.   That was pretty special to me to do that on the weekend in this golf course and show me where my game is at.   
I hit the last putt a little hard hoping to get to 10 and see what Scott did and the guys behind me.   Overall, what a great week and what an honor to play here for St. Jude and City of Memphis.  
   
 Q.   Little more wind today.   I did play a lot differently.  
RYAN PALMER:   I was hoping for the wind, obviously, because keep the scores a little higher, I felt and it was tricky just because the wind's kind of crossways out here sometimes and they swirl a little bit, but it was a tough golf course and I hit it great today and just left a few putts out there, I felt, but it was -- I thought single digits might win it after today, but it looks like 10, 11 is going to end up winning.  
   
 Q.   You have to be pleased with such a strong finish after starting the tournament at 2-over.  
RYAN PALMER:   This is a tough golf course.   If you get over and get down you can lose it real fast, but it's one of those courses you just stay patient and you can get them back.   I was able to do that on Friday and played great on the weekend.   After my start, you know, tied for 3rd, hopefully and awesome week.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT