THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2013
Ryan Palmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about the back nine; you got yourself back into it after a shaky start. 
RYAN PALMER:   Yeah, I actually got off to a pretty good start.   Unfortunately, I missed the putt on 1, but make birdie on 2, hit a great shot on 3 and missed it, hit some great shots coming in, but just a little bulky putter about four hole there's in the middle of that front nine.   But I told myself I just kept making pars.   I played one on the back all week, and nice chip‑in on 10, and then birdied 11 and 12. 
So unfortunately on 16, it couldn't happen at a worst time.   I was on a downswing, and I caught something in my eye with a bug or something.   It was just perfect timing.   And tried to hit a shot, which I thought I could hit, and unfortunate break there. 
You know, great par on 18 to finish the day, and to finish a week where I've struggled in the past, fought hard with my emotions all week, and I kind of let it out there in the end.   But what a week, pretty proud of myself the way I played under pressure all week.

Q.   I was going to say, Ryan, with it being such an emotional week, you have to be pleased with how everything went considering? 
RYAN PALMER:   Yeah, no doubt.   I really played solid golf.   I drove it and hit it well.   The tee balls were pretty good, my putting was really good, my short game was great, and my irons were solid.   But just the way I hung in there when I got down.   I never got upset or got worried about it.   I just kept staying positive and focusing on what I was doing good. 
I was able to string birdies when I got behind in the early part of the round, and to finish 10‑under at this championship, I can't ask for anything better, except for winning, of course.

Q.   You had a chance.   You came to the last four holes and you were still right in it.   You had to feel good about that?
RYAN PALMER:   We chipped out because James told me let's just chip out here because Tiger made double.   That helps you decide even more because I was ready to hit a big hook around the corner.   But I had a clear shot on my second shot and it came out right and caught the part of the tree, but those things happen.   I tried to hit a shot to give myself a chance. 
But, you know, look at it this way.   I was 1 or 2 shots back with three holes to go in THE PLAYERS, and you can't ask for anything more. 

Q.   Were you concerned Friday to stay focused enough all weekend?   Did you have any idea how the emotions might affect you or what might come or how you might play? 
RYAN PALMER:   I didn't know because I didn't sleep at all Thursday night.   I got a couple hours sleep, but I just had some good talks with friends and with Jennifer back home, and just came out with a good, positive attitude about what I was doing.   Really once I got inside the ropes, I kind of just let everything kind of leave it out there and just stay inside the ropes and inside myself and take things slow.   I played a solid round.

Q.   What did you find making the turn today to get that birdie streak, anything? 
RYAN PALMER:   Nothing, really.   I was just, as I said, just keep doing what I've been doing.   I had a good lie, so I was able to hit a good chip and fortunately it went in.   So from there I just said let's play the back like I've been playing.   I've been playing the back well all week.   So I made some good birdies there, but just unfortunate with that 16th hole.   I that kind of just popped my balloon.

Q.   Were there any other options on the second shot? 
RYAN PALMER:   Yeah, I could have punched out, but I had it really wide open.   It's a shot I could hit 9 times out of 10.   I felt like I could.   But it was one of those instances where it just didn't come out. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT