THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 9, 2013
Ryan Palmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You and this golf course haven't always been friends; but certainly a friendly round for you today, 5‑under par, congratulations. 
RYAN PALMER:   Thank you very much.   It was nice finally getting around this golf course.   It's definitely been a thorn in my side since I've been on TOUR.   And I don't know what it is, but there are some tee shots that I'm just not well with.   

But different approach. I stayed home and practiced and played Monday and Tuesday, and I flew out here Wednesday morning, played nine holes and here we are.   Yeah, fun to get off to a good start, finally. 

Q.   I thought you really cobbled the round with some nice putts on your second of nine holes.   I'm talking about pars at 4, 5 and 7. 
RYAN PALMER:   Yeah, I did.   My short game was there today, and that's what you need to shoot low rounds on hard golf courses.   I had a little struggle there on the back nine, and on the front nine, fortunately, I had a good short game today, and I made some good par putts.   But my irons were there, my putting is good, so I think working on my tee shot a little better throughout the week, and I might have a chance here.

Q.   We had you unofficially with 22 putts in the opening round?
RYAN PALMER:   That will get you through a round.   That's good to know that.   So like I said f I can keep the ball on the fairway the rest of the week, we might have a chance.

Q.   In your eighth start here, lowest score you've ever carded here.   What was clicking for you? 
RYAN PALMER:   You know, I hit my irons well today and my short game was there.   I just found out I had 22 putts, so that was always the key.   Drove it pretty good on the back nine.   On the front nine, I kind of struggled, but that's where my short game came in to save me. 
Plus I came in here with no expectations.   I showed up on Wednesday by choice, played at home on Tuesday with some friends and practiced Monday at home.   So I came in here with a little less stress.   I played nine holes yesterday and got ready for today.

Q.   Sounds like you're adapting the Matt Kuchar theory.   Last year when he went on to win he didn't get here until Wednesday either.   So may be something to this coming later in the week. 
RYAN PALMER:   There may be something brewing here.   If we drive the ball good the rest of the week, we might have a chance. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT