THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2013
Ryan Palmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Tough one today, just going through the day?   
RYAN PALMER:   You know, a little rough night last night, with something that happened back home.   But not too bad.   I made some big putts on the first few holes, but played solid, I thought, hit a lot of decent shots but still struggled with the tee ball coming in.   Those four bogeys, those obviously were some tee shots.   Short game saved me again today with a couple chip‑ins for eagle and I putted great.  
My mind was good today all things considered, but it's great to feel good to be in contention here at this tournament where I've struggled.   I am excited about the weekend.  
   
 Q.   How much were you thinking of your friend today?  
RYAN PALMER:   All day, yeah, it was tough.   I had some good talks last night with a good friend of ours, Eddie, Jennifer, and then Fran Pirozzolo who I work with psychology‑wise, and he had some good things to say.   One of the things to do is just to come out and play golf.  
When I had the bogeys it didn't even seem like it was there.   But I stayed strong, felt good about my game.   All I can do is just kind of stay here, play golf, and keep him in my prayers.  
   
 Q.   I saw you on 18.   Were you emotional then?  
RYAN PALMER:   A little bit, yeah.   The day was over, so I kind of let it all out for a minute.   But it's going to be‑‑ they've got a lot of support back home.   I'll just keep playing golf and just keep doing what I'm doing here.  
   
 Q.   What's his name?  
RYAN PALMER:   Clay Aderholt.  
   
 Q.   What exactly happened?  
RYAN PALMER:   He lives in San Antonio and was in a car wreck last night between 6:00 and 7:00 p.m.   I got a call from my financial advisor who lives in his neighborhood and told me what happened.   It's a restless night to say the least.  
   
 Q.   How far back do you go?  
RYAN PALMER:   Grade school, junior high, all‑stars, baseball, basketball, high school, even went to A&M, as well.   All the way back to as long as I can remember.  
   
 Q.   How good a golfer is he?  
RYAN PALMER:   He's not bad.   We had some good games growing up.   Great athlete, high school quarterback, baseball player, everything.   Two young kids.   That's what's really heartbreaking.  
   
 Q.   Was there a thought last night about withdrawing from the tournament?  
RYAN PALMER:   No, I talked to some close friends, and nothing I can really do except keep him in my prayers and memories and just keep playing golf.   That's what I took with me today, and I felt really calm.   I kind of just took things slow.   I talked to Fran Pirozzolo last night, and he made some good points, just kind of being real calm and slow out there and just not getting too emotional.   And I had some rough holes, but I stayed strong, stayed positive and kept in the present, and that got me through.  
   
 Q.   Can you remember chipping in for eagle twice in one round?  
RYAN PALMER:   No.   I can't remember chipping in twice in one round, period, or in one tournament.   No, it was actually a good putt from off the green on 9 and a great bunker shot that I hit.   I was expecting a 10‑footer but I couldn't have caught it any better.   
You've got to have things like that happen to be in contention and to win, so I've had some things go my way, so if we keep playing well and get a few more breaks on the weekend, who knows, we'll see what happens.  
   
 Q.   The morning wave had five eagles on 11.   Any particular reason other than the pin being back and you could attack it a little bit more?   
RYAN PALMER:   Just because of the pin placement obviously you have all the green work coming in with your approach.   A good drive you're hitting anywhere from 210 to 215, 220 shot, so you're hitting an iron into the green if you hit a good drive, and you have a lot of green to work with to give yourself a putt.   It definitely has‑‑ it's definitely there for the taking today as far as making eagles and definitely birdies.  
   
 Q.   Despite all the low scores, a round like that around here is pretty good.   Has this course still got eagles and birdies but also the other stuff at any moment?   Just because it's playing tame and the wind is not blowing, are there still traps out there?   
RYAN PALMER:   Oh, yeah.   Just like today, the four birdies I made were ‑‑ second shot right on 2, dead in some rough and then just tee shots.   If you don't hit the fairways here you're grinding, you're scrambling to make par.   That's the one thing that's kept me from playing well in the past is tee shots.   Fortunately I've got a short game this week and I'm putting good.   
I told James if we keep it in the fairways we'll be there at the end.  
   
 Q.   Are you surprised just how good the scores are after day two?  
RYAN PALMER:   No, I felt like they probably had this yesterday morning.   It's pretty mute out there, no wind, pretty soft greens, and towards the end you could feel the greens getting a little crustier, a little faster.   I think the boys in the afternoon are going to have some fun like we did yesterday.   Fortunately I played good yesterday afternoon.   I was laying in bed watching.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned those schools, grade school, junior high with Clay.   What were the schools' names?  
RYAN PALMER:   Elementary we were different, but we went to Bonham Middle School together and then Amarillo High in Amarillo, Texas, and then he went to A&M, as well, of course, so a long time.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT