WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 2, 2012
Ryan Palmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JOHN BUSH:   Ryan Palmer joins us after a 7‑under par 64.   Ryan, nice playing out there, brought you your old putter back out on TOUR with you.   Just comment on the day and how that treated you. 
RYAN PALMER:   Yeah, I had a lot of‑‑ the start of the year wasn't great, but it wasn't that bad.   I really didn't play that terrible at Hawai'i, Bob Hope, but of course I missed two cuts.   But I was using a different putter than I've had in the past.   I got a little frustrated with it last year so I switched for a while, but I got home and had a great day with Randy Smith and got the old putter I've been using forever and had two great days Tuesday and Wednesday preparing. 
I did a lot of work on my driver the last few days, and it paid off today.   My best putting round of the year for sure.
JOHN BUSH:   Getting a little dark there at the end.   Talk about how you had to stay patient. 
RYAN PALMER:   It was.   Probably about my last three or four holes, you could tell it was getting closer and closer so I was trying not to worry about it.   I knew I was going to be here in the morning for the second round, so I wasn't worried about if we had to come back and restart.   So I didn't think about it and I just kept hitting shots and sticking to my game plan. 
The last putt was a little dark I can say, but I'm glad to be done, and now I can get going in tomorrow's routine.   Instead of getting ready for one hole, I can get ready for the whole day.   It's going to be a nice night.

Q.   What was the putter model that you swapped out and the putter model that you put in?
RYAN PALMER:   I've used an old Odyssey Rossie ii since college.   I've used a bunch of different ones with the exact same head.   I've used the exact same putter the last two years, and of course had two of the best years of my career.   But towards the end of the year last year, around the BMW, I just got frustrated with not making anything, so I thought I'd try something different, put a similar style head in play and actually had some success.   Had a seventh place finish Malaysia with it, 20th place finish at Disney with it, so I knew it was a good putter. 
But my first two weeks out here I could tell I wasn't comfortable when I'd get over the short putts.   When I got home from Bob Hope, I pulled it out of the garage and was putting in my living room, then went outside in the backyard on my putting green, and I knew it was time to bring it back out.   So it showed today. 

Q.   Looking on the ShotLink, it showed that you made seven birdie putts from 10 feet to 15 feet. 
RYAN PALMER:   You know what's funny is I was top 50 in putting inside ten feet.   I was like 160th from 10 to 15 feet last year, so I put a little effort in that this off‑season, just working at seeing more putts go in.   But getting the old putter back out, the old feelings I've had in the past, the way I'm driving the ball, the way my swing feels, the way my body feels, it was set up for a good day today. 

Q.   You hit a lot of greens in regulation today, too.   I think at one point you were leading the field until the last couple holes. 
RYAN PALMER:   I did.   That's the way I drove the ball.   I worked read hard Sunday with Randy Smith in Dallas on my driver and then I worked hard this past Tuesday and Wednesday, played Silver Leaf yesterday and just working on tee balls.   I think a lot has to do with the workouts I put in this winter, getting my body in good shape.   I think I picked up a lot of swing speed, and I'm hitting it a lot further than I've probably hit it in my career for sure.   The ball is going a long way.

Q.   The birdie on the par‑5 where you hit it in the water, did that really keep things going where you‑‑
RYAN PALMER:   I went down and picked my tee up when I hit the tee ball.   It landed in the middle of the fairway, and the way that fairway is designed, it's so bare and shaved, it just kept rolling.   I still had‑‑ I had 185 yards to the hole, so I hit 7‑iron to about eight, nine feet.   That was definitely‑‑ I knew I was going to make par, so I was okay with that.   But to make birdie there after hitting it in the water, and then I get up on 17 and do the same thing, hit it in the water.   I guess you could say I left a couple out, but it was a great day for sure. 
JOHN BUSH:   Ryan, thanks a lot. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT