SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
March 31, 2012
Ryan Palmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Ryan, really good round of golf, but I imagine you're thinking it could have been a couple shots better?  
RYAN PALMER:   You know, it was a good round.   Very happy where I stand after shooting 6-under this afternoon.   Little disappointed.   Get one or two coming in the last eight holes.   I hit it close again.   Last eight holes couldn't get a putt to go in.   You know, it's -- there's a lot of mud balls out there.   It's fun, but it was -- it's been great all week and struggling making some putts.   I finally got the putter rolling.  
   
 Q.   Sixteen greens again today.   I guess looking back at the putt at 16, it's so good in there inside of ten feet.   Ball broke right over the cup?  
RYAN PALMER:   I've been hitting a lot of those the last -- I guess the last few days out there, lot of edges, but I'm rolling the ball good.   I can't, be upset about that because I'm putting good.   You know, I played great for ten holes.   Played perfect.   I'm disappointed I didn't get a couple coming in, but I'm right there.  
   
 Q.   I thought your stroke looked fine.   The ball broke over the hole a couple times?  
RYAN PALMER:   Maybe a little push.   I'm rolling the ball good.   My stroke is great.   I worked with Randy Smith.   It's starting to pay off.  
   
 Q.   We talked at Sony, you really worked with Randy with the wedge game.   Are you happy with that?  
RYAN PALMER:   Wedge game is good.   Ball strikes is good.   Spent some time at Augusta and worked out a few things.   Ball striking has been superb, I feel like.  
   
 Q.   Take it home on Sunday?  
RYAN PALMER:   I'm going to try.  
   
 Q.   Ryan, out first, 6-under 66, bogey-free.   Your thoughts on round three.  
RYAN PALMER:   It was great.   Awesome for ten holes.   Very happy with what I shot, the way I played and where I stand now, but a little disappointed I didn't get one borrow two coming in last eight holes.   I hit it good.   Couldn't capitalize on some of the shots.   I still putted pretty well and just couldn't get the ball to go in.  
   
 Q.   In particular, what's working well throughout the week for you?  
RYAN PALMER:   Driving the ball pretty good.   My iron play has been great.   I've been working hard on it.   It's funny, I cracked my driver at Bay Hill last week.   I wasn't going to play this week, but I felt I needed to get some driver work in and get in some more rounds.   I'm glad I'm here now.  
   
 Q.   Lot of guys still on the course.   Your chances for tomorrow, another low one needed?  
RYAN PALMER:   I don't know.   Depends what they do.   The wind is picking up a little bit.   I'm waiting to see a leader probably around 14, 15.   That's what I'll look at.   You know, four, five back, I'll be okay.   I'm happy where I'm at, especially leading into next week.  
   
 Q.   Ryan, have you changed your putting?   Put the round in perspective here.   You're in good shape going into Sunday.   
RYAN PALMER:   It was a good day, great start, great first ten holes.   Little disappointed I didn't get one, two coming in the last eight holes.   I'm very happy where I stand, 11-under going into Sunday, and I'll probably be a few back, but I'm very excited the way I'm hitting the ball and I'm actually putting well.   I'm excited about tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
RYAN PALMER:   It's hard to say that.   I can't beat what I did at Disney in '04.   I hit it great.   Hit it good and close, and I putted well.   If I can keep doing that tomorrow, hopefully I'm get a few more putts to go in and shoot a low number.  
   
 Q.   You left a couple out there, but on Saturday, all you want is to be in position to make that run on Sunday.  
RYAN PALMER:   No doubt.   I did leave a few the last eight holes.   I couldn't have asked for a better position going into this afternoon's round.   All you can do is get as close as you can to the lead and hope you have a chance tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Very good week for you.  
RYAN PALMER:   Not bad, you get a couple up there.  
   
 Q.   How is this course playing to your strengths?  
RYAN PALMER:   It's long, especially with the way that -- as soft as it is.   The ball lands and didn't go anywhere.   Fortunately, I'm able to hit the driver out there a pretty good ways.   I hit my irons, pretty long with my irons compared to the field.   I think that's probably where it helps me in the long run.  
   
 Q.   The same driver that -- same specs?  
RYAN PALMER:   I cracked it Monday.   I spent all week trying to find one.   Went to Augusta with one and actually played it the first two rounds, and then I switched to a different one.   First round -- I switched to a different one the second round this week.   I'm on my second driver this week.   I think I found one I liked.  
   
 Q.   Ryan, what are you hitting now, what's the driver?  
RYAN PALMER:   TaylorMade Burner.  
   
 Q.   The white one.   What are the specs on that?  
RYAN PALMER:   It's a 9.5.   About 9-degree head.   UST shaft.   It's the kind of shaft I've hit since '03.  
   
 Q.   Double X?  
AIt's pretty strong.   XX.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT