JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 21, 2010
Ryan Palmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 6-under-par 65. Ryan Palmer, nice opening round. 
 RYAN PALMER: Thanks. It was I hate to say an easy day. I drove the ball up better than the stats show. I hit the ball in the middle of the green, hit it close a couple of times. Birdied all par 5s. Hit a few wedges close. I didn't make a putt past 10 feet. It was a solid, steady round.

 Q. Did you have anything for par that was at all a knee-knocker? Didn't make a bogey. 
 RYAN PALMER: I did it was it on 3, I think. Par 4. I made about a 10-footer for par there. I made one 10-footer. 

 Q. Why are you here this week? You've had a great year, you've won, in the top 25 on the Money List. You've done everything you need to do to set yourself up for next year. What brings you to Vegas? 
 RYAN PALMER: I love to play golf. Just enjoy being out on TOUR. I enjoy coming to Vegas every year. My wife is coming in without the kids this weekend so we're going to have some good times. Going to Malaysia and China. Have a busy four weeks ahead of me. 
 I always enjoy coming here. I got a little thing with the Shriner's. My dad is a big Shriner. Sentimental value being part of the Shriner's tournament. 

 Q. You're going overseas to play the big events in the next couple weeks. Any preconceived notion of what you're going to see over there? 
 RYAN PALMER: I heard heat and a little bit of rain next week, cold air in China. You know, I'm excited. It's nice to play well and some doors have opened. That's what is cool about the way it's been this year. 
 I've been to Australia. That's the only place I've ever been. I'm excited to see Asia, go over there, see some fun country over there, play some golf. 

 Q. Ryan, your season had a little bit of a slump at the midway point. Was it at the Canadian that you got your lies and lofts adjusted and since you've played really well, just before Akron?
 RYAN PALMER: Yeah, I got a new set at THE PLAYERS Championship. Same irons, just a little different finish. Went and got it checked. I should have gone to the TaylorMade truck, got numbers. Had some other guys do it. 
 Canada, James went to check my wedges like we normally do. Came back, said he bent them a degree and a half more upright. I said, Let's check everything. TaylorMade, the numbers they had, they were all a degree and a half flat. I guess they bent over time. I'm sure that can happen. Most people wouldn't know, they bend over time by the constant work. 

 Q. Especially with the hard turf during the summer months. 
 RYAN PALMER: Of course. So valuable lesson learned to check my stuff more often. Got them fixed at Canada. Had the best iron play of my year. Carried over the rest of the year. Some good things worked with Randy Smith, been working ever since. 

 Q. Do you think this golf course favors a draw or a fade?
 RYAN PALMER: Off the tee, yes. I have a good eye on where I want the ball to start and turn it over. Like I said, the stats didn't show it today, but I drove it pretty well and put the ball in the right spots, so I'm excited for the weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT