AT&T CLASSIC
May 16, 2008
Ryan Palmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. All right, Ryan. Nice round today. Disappointed though with a bogey at 17, or are you happy with the birdie comeback at 18?
 RYAN PALMER: I'm not disappointed at all, happy to come back. I was a little frustrated because I wanted to go for it too, but I didn't have the shot to come into the green with the 5-wood so I laid up. Knew my wedge game was good so that was the play there. 
 Overall, it was a great day. I had a few jitters the first couple holes. Haven't been here in a while in this position, so I guess that's natural. But I calmed down. Little hiccup on 5 but I played superb coming in.

 Q. Saw you looking at the scoreboard at 16 and again at 18. Were you kind of contemplating what lies ahead or just your situation as it was?
 RYAN PALMER: I hadn't looked at it all day and then just kind of appeared, there so glanced at it. 
 You know, I'm just glad to be in this position, give myself in a chance in the weekend. I still have some low rounds ahead of me I think. I thought I could have had a couple today but I'm happy to get away with 3-under, and right in the thick of it. 

 Q. Talk about the weekend because you are putting the ball very well. 
 RYAN PALMER: I am. My putt's been rolling real well. I need to kind of be calm going into the first hole, that way give myself some chances, and hopefully I'll make a few putts. 
 You know I felt comfortable on the greens and my swing feels great so looking forward to great things. So keep it going.

 Q. Every time you had a hiccup, you came right back seemed like?
 RYAN PALMER: Yeah, that was my goal coming into this year. My ball facts have been terrible. A lot of times I followed birdies with bogeys. But it was my goal this year to work on my bounce backs. 
 I didn't let it get to me today. Making double, a little disappointing, but I came back with some great shots on the next hole. Hit a great wedge on 6 to get birdie back. (Audio interference.)

 Q. (Audio interference.)
 RYAN PALMER: Pretty good bunker shot. Just lifted up there right and just missed a little 5-footer. So a little disappointed there. Come back with a birdie on 18. 
 Look forward to tomorrow. 

 Q. Haven't had very many chances this year. You haven't been able the get into very many. How important does that make this tournament here?
 RYAN PALMER: It's very important. 
 You know, I was in contingent in Lafayette on the Nationwide Tour, so I got a little feel of being in contingent, how it feels. It's nice to have a chance on the weekend now and not be back like I've been used to this year. I'm excited for the opportunity. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT