CHRYSLER CLASSIC OF GREENSBORO
October 6, 2006
Ryan Palmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TODD BUDNICK:  Alright.  We welcome Ryan Palmer after a 7 under 65 here in round two of the Chrysler Classic of Greensboro.

Ryan, your 65 at the moment three shots better than anybody else out there today and in the tough conditions.

Talk a little about the difference between yesterday and today.
RYAN PALMER:  I think I had like 200 feet of putts made today.  It was one of those days where I knew I was hitting the ball good.

Hit the ball good yesterday, didn't get anything out of it and then to eagle No. 5 from about 105 yards, that definitely kick started my round.

From there just kept hitting the ball solid.  My missed shots are good.  I had birdie putts when I was missing my irons and I kept making    I made one putt from like 50 feet I think, a couple 30 footers.

One of those days where it just    the hole was big and the ball was going in the right spot so I definitely hit the    drove the ball great, hit my irons really solid.

When I missed a shot they came up 20 feet from the hole.  I played smart when I needed to and, you know, the conditions, they were tough but, you know, I finally figured how to play in it.  I've struggled in the past but growing up in West Texas, it comes back to you.
TODD BUDNICK:  I was going to say, wind shouldn't have been a problem for you today but certainly the rain on, off, on, off, how does that hamper someone's game?
RYAN PALMER:  Got a little annoying at the beginning.  Then it quit raining towards the last ten holes I guess and    but I was in a long sleeve, short sleeve and back and forth, no shirt and then back on.

It kind of tiresome taking the umbrella, putting it in and out of the bag and putting a different jacket on each time.

It's one of those days you've got to stay focus and not let the weather get to you.  Try to make pars and get a couple birdies.  Fortunately, I was able to sneak in 6 birdies today along with the eagle.
TODD BUDNICK:  Your exemption from winning Disney runs out.  You're 95th on the money list.  Assess your season to date.
RYAN PALMER:  A+ at the beginning.  It was awesome to get off to a great start on the West Coast swing.

Played solid throughout the middle part.  This past month or so I've kind of struggled hitting the golf ball.  I've been playing decent.  Not getting it out of my rounds.  I worked hard the last week or so and it's nice to come in here and finally striking the ball well and I'm rolling the ball good again so it's kind of funny, my teacher back home calls me Mr. October from the past so hopefully that holds up again.

Good start so far.
TODD BUDNICK:  Okay.  We'll take some questions.

Q    Can you talk a little bit about the weather, what is it doing to the course, how is it changing it from yesterday?
RYAN PALMER:  It's a different wind.  Obviously, there wasn't much wind yesterday.  The scores showed it.  It's just the greens are a little softer.

18 I hit driver, 5 iron today.  Yesterday I hit driver, wedge.  It was definitely playing a lot longer than some of the other holes yesterday.

Some of the holes get the swirling wind.  You don't know which way it's going.  But overall, I wouldn't say it's playing totally tough.

I think there's some good rounds still out there.  I kind of snuck in a real low one.  You can see there's still some 3, 4 under pars being shot.  It's not terribly tough.  It's still there for the taking, I think.

Q    Is there any advantage to being done?  I mean you guys are    one guy is at 9, one is at 8.  Is that an advantage going in the afternoon?
RYAN PALMER:  After shooting 7, I go sit indoors, yeah.  It didn't play easy, it still played tough and we had the rain to deal with this morning and those guys are not going to have to deal with any rain today, I don't think.  I think it stopped for the day.

It's definitely nice.  I can go sit back and go see a movie or something and let these guys out here handle the wind and cool weather.

I'm not out here grinding this afternoon when it could get tougher.  It's nice being done, definitely get to go relax and rest up for tomorrow.

Q    You said late in the year you were struggling.  Is it a little fatigue, maybe, or what do you think it is?  You played in a lot of events, I think 26.
RYAN PALMER:  I'd probably say mental fatigue.  There's times I'm so ready to get this year over with, ready to be done.  Probably lot of that, thinking of February when our new baby comes.  That could have something to do with it.  It's just I think a lot of it is more mentally fatigued.

Playing well early and then being in contention to win and finish second at Phoenix and a couple Top 10s after that.

I think the pressure I put on myself gets more and more because I got off to a good start finally and I got weeks ahead that I played good and looking forward to those and then you don't play well, frustrates you and probably mentally drains you more than anything.

I think that's kind of what I did to myself throughout these last few months.  My swing kind of faltered after being upset and mad and then your confidence goes away.  But it's October.
TODD BUDNICK:  Go through your card.  Start with a birdie on 2.
RYAN PALMER:  Hit a good drive, had about 220 to the front, hit 5 iron to about 30 feet and 2 putted.

And then how about 105 on No. 5 to the back left pin and 50 degree wedge that I carry, played it about 115 yard shot and landed two feet short and rolled in perfect.
TODD BUDNICK:  What did you hit off the tee on that?
RYAN PALMER:  Hit 5 wood, wedge.
TODD BUDNICK:  Bogey on 8.
RYAN PALMER:  I hit a 4 iron, hit a 4 iron right and hit a poor chip to about ten feet and missed that putt and then, let's see, 11?

11 is where I made the    you might have to go look at Shot Link    I'd say at least 50 feet, I think, 40, 50 feet at least the putt.

Then I hit a 6 iron on 12    no, 13 to about five feet.
TODD BUDNICK:  Par 3?
RYAN PALMER:  Yes.  11 was the long putt.  Then 13 I hit driver    3 wood right and had to punch out to the fairway and then hit a 9 iron to about 20 feet.

And then what was the next one?
TODD BUDNICK:  15.
RYAN PALMER:  15, I hit a driver and then 5 wood just short right and I chipped up to about four feet.

And then 17 hit a 5 iron to about 25, 30 feet.
TODD BUDNICK:  Okay.
RYAN PALMER:  That's 65.
TODD BUDNICK:  Anything else for Ryan?  Alright.  Thank you Ryan.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT