FBR OPEN
February 5, 2006
Ryan Palmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
Well, steady round.  I know you'd like to have one hole back for sure.
RYAN PALMER:  Oh, yeah.  That's the way this game goes.  You know, it was a fun day, me and J. B. going at it together.  I was driving the ball great the whole day.  Two swings got me, one on 11 and one on 15.  You know, I learned from it.  I know this won't be the last time I have a chance to win.  You know, it was still a good week.
Q.  Were you being aggressive on No. 15, or was it just a mis hit?
RYAN PALMER:  No, that's the way I played the hole all week.  The way I've been driving it, I had plenty of confidence I could hit the fairway, just turned it over a little bit too much.  You know, I didn't have an easy lie on the 4 iron I hit from the fairway.  But, you know, I give J. B. credit.  He played great golf today.  I had to shoot a low round to beat him.
Q.  Did you play the same club or did you change today?
RYAN PALMER:  No, I played it the same way.  Didn't do anything different than I have the last three days.  Just the way it goes.
Q.  Pleased, proud of the way you bounced back after that?  You brought it in real solid.
RYAN PALMER:  Yeah, I wish I could have got a birdie there to finish 2nd alone, but tied for 2nd in a big tournament like this is a great accomplishment.  I know I'll take a lot from this week and go try again next week.
Q.  What are you going to take into next week?
RYAN PALMER:  Just the way I'm playing.  I know I'm putting well and I'm hitting the ball good.  One hole cost me    maybe two holes cost me the golf tournament this week.  I can't sit there and dwell on that.  I'll dwell on the positives and just think about what went right this week and get ready for next week.
Q.  On 18 what are you thinking?  What goes through your mind when you're trying to get birdie?
RYAN PALMER:  2nd by myself, and that's all I was thinking about, moving up higher on the leaderboard.  That's where I'm at in this game, trying to get as close as I can.  2nd alone would have been big.  Tied for 2nd is great.
Q.  Were things going pretty much according to plan until you hit 11 and 15?
RYAN PALMER:  Yeah, most definitely.  I had a one shot lead going into 11.  That was a big swing there.  And I had some putts I didn't make, but I was playing better than I have all week.  It's tough on Sunday.  That's the way it goes.
Q.  You haven't had a lot of experience, but you have enough experience that you've been there before?
RYAN PALMER:  Yeah, I've had plenty of 2nds.  I've had plenty of experience.  I know next time I'll be more prepared for it again, and hopefully it'll end up much better.
Q.  Just talk about what happened on 15, I guess, go right to it.
RYAN PALMER:  One swing.  I felt good over it and turned it over a little bit too much, and there was nothing going to stop that ball except for the ducks, and they almost did (laughter).  I mean, I had been driving the ball good all day and felt good over that one and just one little slip.
Q.  And the next one?
RYAN PALMER:  It wasn't easy.  I had a downhill, ball above my feet, lie, and it wasn't as easy as it looked.  After the drive, I mean, yeah, it would have been different if I had hit that shot better.  But that's the way it goes.
Q.  You seemed to be able to kind of shrug it off a little bit.
RYAN PALMER:  Yeah, I mean, I still had something to try to accomplish, getting 2nd alone.  I felt if I could make one or two birdies I'd finish 2nd alone.  Better World Ranking, better Ryder Cup points.  Tied for 2nd, I can't be disappointed about that.  I was a little upset obviously the way it turned out, not to have a better chance to win.  But I'll just keep going and learn from it.
Q.  What's your impression of J. B. after playing with him?
RYAN PALMER:  He's solid, obviously, as long as he is, and he hits it straight.  To be that long and straight, you're going to do some good things out here.  He hits his irons solid and made a few good putts, and he played great.  I had to play a good round to beat him.
Q.  Your play on 15, it was the same play no matter what the situation was on the leaderboard?
RYAN PALMER:  Yeah, I've been taking it right down the side and hitting a nice little draw every day.  Today wasn't any different, just drew it a little too much.  It wasn't a big hook, it just started down the center and drew a little.  Once it goes down the left side, there's nothing to stop it.
Q.  You had the water problem earlier, too.
RYAN PALMER:  Yeah, same thing.  Just two things, I guess I can look back and say these two swings cost me, but there's some other things that could have been done, a few more putts made.

You know, I'll sit back and think about it and have a cold one tonight and not worry about it tomorrow.
Q.  Going into the round, did you feel pretty good about your game and where things stood?
RYAN PALMER:  No doubt.  I was driving the ball great all week and putting the ball good, hitting my irons good.  Obviously this being the third, fourth tournament of the year and leading the golf tournament, there might have been a little bit more pressure on him.  Be but he hung in there and played solid.  He played like a two, three year veteran.  I gave him a chance.  I was playing well, and I guess one hole.
Q.  I was out there on 8 when you hit that birdie putt.  Things were looking real good then.
RYAN PALMER:  Things were looking great through 10, I thought.  I made a good bogey on 11, I felt, and made a good putt on 12 for par, which I thought, okay,    we were tied at the time, or I was one back, I think.  He made that putt on 13, that gave him a lot of momentum, I think, when he made that long one to stay one ahead.  Then the good old 15th hole.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Thanks for coming in.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT