VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 9, 2018
Ryan Palmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How were the conditions?  Maybe a little better than what they were in the opening round?
RYAN PALMER: No, it was a good day.  Little cool, obviously, but the total of two rounds I -- yesterday I drove it so poorly and survived the day at 1-over.  Today was night and day.  I drove it probably one of the better rounds the last couple weeks for sure driving the ball and made some putts, obviously, but main thing, kept the ball up there and played the par-5s good and was able to salvage a really good round.
Q. I would think this golf course suits your game quite well.  Is this a tournament that's on your schedule that you didn't think you can play well here?
RYAN PALMER: I haven't played a whole lot here in years past for sure.  I tend to play some good golf on tougher courses where you don't have to go out and shoot low.  It's one of those courses if I kept driving the ball well and the putter is finally coming together I knew I could have a decent, good week for sure.  Exciting to be where I'm at for sure.  Have a chance on the weekend.
Q. Disappointing loss in the playoff at Farmers.  Had a lot of time off last year.  As you get in this process, is it a process for you to kind of get back into playing form again?
RYAN PALMER: Not into playing form.  I think just seeing some good golf.  Obviously last year is what it is off the golf course.  On the golf course was just scary putting and it took me changing my whole putting style to get back and it happened last year at RBC Canada going into the fall.  We're finally coming to where I'm more and more comfortable and I'm making more putts each and every week.
Q. Speaking of putting, great par save at 17 to keep the round going.
RYAN PALMER: That was a little disappointing on that shot I hit.  Such a poor iron shot and average bunker shot.  Make that 20-footer makes it coming into the last hole make birdie to get to where I wanted.  Told myself if I can catch Tiger we'd be in good shape.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT