DEAN & DELUCA INVITATIONAL
May 24, 2016
Ryan Palmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Ryan, first of all, what a great event you just took part in through FedEx Cares.  Talk a little bit about the $5,000 donation that will be made with your participation to the local Junior Achievement chapter, and how much fun that was for you out there?   
RYAN PALMER: Yeah, that was great.  Getting to show some kids kind of what we do, what the important part of the game is we play, and the short game is the hardest part of the game.  It's good to see the kids out here.   
I love seeing what FedEx is doing with their new FedEx Cares Initiative, and it just shows what the game of golf is able to do for local communities.  Raising $200 million for 200 communities by 2020, that says a lot of what we're doing in the game of golf and what FedEx is doing.  So proud to be a part of it.  Proud to be part of what I do from a charity standpoint with my foundation, and it's great to be around great people like that.   
 Q.  Back here at the Dean and DeLuca Invitational, just comment about that before we open it up to questions.  
RYAN PALMER: Yeah, this is the number one event on my schedule usually every year, because it's obviously the majors in the world of golf are great, and the Byron Nelson is just down the road.  But this one means a lot to me because of the friends I have just being a member, and James Edmondson, my caddie being a member.   
We play the big game with my guys out here every day.  This tournament holds a special place in my heart.  It's my dad's favorite.  It will be a little tough this year.  First one he's missed obviously with him passing in August.  A lot of friends and family here.  It's going to be a great event, especially with Dean and DeLuca coming on board.   
I know the club's excited.  The TOUR'S excited and we're looking forward to a great week.   
 Q.  Why do you have such a connection with kids?  Because on your website there is a quote on your Brighter Smiles initiative, it says, "I like to see kids smile."  Why do you do that?  
RYAN PALMER: Just from what I grew up with.  What my parents gave me.  The people in Amarillo, Texas, what they did for me growing up with the game of golf and the sport.  It's a way for me to give back through this game.  Having two kids of my own, happy kids, when you see them smiling and having a good time, that means a lot.  Especially when you're able to do things for them to provide for that, it brings a warm feeling to my heart.   
All the guys on TOUR, we play this game for a living, but what we do for our local communities when we go to these towns is unbelievable.   
 Q.  Busy week in terms of your sponsor sheet.  How was the Monday event?  
RYAN PALMER: The Monday event was awesome.  I played at Cottonwood, the first annual United Rentals Battle at the Byron.  Had 21 guys on TOUR that participated, had a lot of music playing and everyone had a great time.  It was better than what I expected.  Weather held out for us, and I know a lot of the players said they had a good time.  And we were able to raise some money for my Brighter Smiles initiative for my foundation.  So after yesterday, I was able to relax.  So now it's time to go home, relax, and really think about this week.   
 Q.  Five toughest shots here, what do you think?  
RYAN PALMER: Five toughest shots?  You could look at definitely the tee shot on 5 is probably the hardest.  There is no doubt about that, with the river on the right side and there is no room on the left.  That's a critical tee shot.  You can look at, I think 7 tee plays tough sometimes for these guys out here.  I've played it a bunch.  It's not too bad for me.   
9 tee gives a lot of guys fits.  You can hit driver, take the bunkers out of play, or lay back and have a longer club into the green.  Then when you get to the back nine, 13 always plays tricks with some guys' minds with the wind.  That one I'd probably say 14 tee, I'd look at those five as being some of the toughest.   
 Q.  How did you play today?  Did you have practice?  
RYAN PALMER: We had a good match.  We got beat unfortunately.  Jordan, little Jordan birdied the last two on us again, so left a bitter taste, but good match today.  Frank (Indiscernible) member here as well.  Played at TCU in the tournament, so me and him took on a couple Longhorns, Kramer Hickok and Jordan.  So we came up short this time.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
RYAN PALMER: It was good fun.  It had a lot of outside betting I think as well.   
 Q.  How did Jordan's swing look today?  Obviously he wasn't happy with the Byron Nelson.  
RYAN PALMER: He looked fine.  I didn't watch much, obviously, of what he did on the weekend.  But obviously watching today, a lot of mid-irons he hit well, hit some good tee shots.  I think he's, you know, I think he's getting back into the swing.  He took so much time off after Augusta.  I mean, he didn't play well at THE PLAYERS and then last week he kind of got back in the groove.  But I think Jordan's doing okay.   
 Q.  How would you characterize your season so far?  
RYAN PALMER: You know, it's been solid, I would say.  I made a lot of cuts in a row.  Just couldn't get over that hump.  I was having a good round to finish top 10, top 15s.  San Antonio was a big step, finishing fourth played solid at the players.  Had a little hiccup last Thursday that kind of put me behind the eight ball.  But I played good on Friday, had a lot of great shots and had a nice weekend, weekend off, let me make sure I make that clear.   
But, overall, it's been solid, been consistent, I think.  Just the finishes haven't been there.  But I think that's going to come with the next few weeks ahead, I believe.   
 Q.  To a guy who plays this course a lot, how different is it when the PGA TOUR comes in to set it up?  
RYAN PALMER: We get more rough than we're used to playing, than we play normally.  We don't always have as much rough.  But James and I treat it the same.  I rarely pull my yardage book out because I know so many spots and I can tell you what winds are doing.  If it's into the wind, it's really not.  I can tell you that.   
So certain holes play short, I think, than the second shot does.  So it's a golf course, you know higher up and fast greens, firm greens.  We play it in every condition.  So it's a matter of me executing and not letting anything outside affect me.   
 Q.  Did you ever get a chance to come to this event as a fan?  
RYAN PALMER: I did one time.  I remember when Chad Campbell a good friend of mine was in contention, and we came out on Sunday and watched.  But other than that, I haven't really watched.   
Actually, I did come as a kid.  My dad brought me.  I may have been 13.  I remember watching Nick Price tee it on 1, and I remember the tree on 3, thinking how can anybody get over this tree?  And I'm watching Greg Norman just fly it over it.  And I'm looking at it going, this is easy.  But, no, when I was a kid, dad brought me out to watch.  So that's the only few times I've actually been a fan watching.   
 Q.  What would it mean to you to win what you would consider to be your fifth major?  
RYAN PALMER: Oh, that would be a hard question to answer on Sunday if it happened.  But just it would be unbelievable.  I mean, it would be more for the members here, I think, for what they've done for me.  Taking me in, and making me feel a part of this club.  It would be for James, for sure.  He's been there since day one and being a member.  So that's one question that's hard to answer when you haven't done it or not yet.  But if it was to happen, we'll save that for that.   
 Q.  You'll be thinking about your dad quite a bit this week?  
RYAN PALMER: Yeah, well, there's a lot of people coming into town.  I think they made some tee shirts.  This was dad's favorite event.  Lot of friends came in and they stayed right across the street.  They loved the Champions Club.  That's where they spent their time having a good time.   
So it will be an emotional week for my mom who is here, and of course a lot of friends and family as well.   
 Q.  You always talk about the pressure of playing here at this tournament.  But how do you relieve that pressure?  There is a lot expected of you here?  
RYAN PALMER: Yeah, I've gotten used to it the last five or six years, I think.  I've learned to not really be selfish, but make sure when I'm done, I leave.  My house is off limits, I guess you could say.  I go home, nobody comes over.  It's just me, Jennifer and the kids when I'm done.   
So I guess that's my way of relieving the pressure and the thoughts of it.  I'm able to go home, relax, enjoy it, and then I get up in the morning and go to work.  Whether I shoot 65 or 75, the kids don't care what I shoot, so that keeps the mind off of it for sure.  But it's nice being in my own bed, and I'm able to go home and relax.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT