SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 23, 2015
Ryan Palmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Ryan, 2-under par today, 8-overall for the tournament.  Nothing wrong with 2-under par, but I sense that you felt there was some more out there for you?
RYAN PALMER: Yeah, I think so.  It was good.  I've struggled backing up a low round this past year.  Normally it's been even and 1-over after shooting a low round, so it was nice to shoot a couple under.  You know, I hit a lot of good shots.  It was tougher.  Obviously scoring has been good today, but overall I thought some of the pins were tougher to get to.  I didn't risk it, didn't want to today, but had a lot of long putts today.  Left a few putts out there, I think, but overall it was really good.
Q. Was the breeze causing some difficulty on shot selection at all today?  I know 16 it was whipping pretty good there, and also on 17.
RYAN PALMER: Yeah, 17 was an easy decision after playing 16.  16 got me pretty good because I had 165 to the front, which is a perfect 8-iron, and if I had any kind of help, I'd have hit 8-iron easy, so I laid off a 7 and I kind of thinned it a little bit.  But that's the only hole I really played with any more than any other hole.  It set me up for a good yardage on 17.  But overall, it was good.  I stayed calm, stayed within myself all day, and 69 is always good.
Q. You had a chip-in on 16, too; I don't know if anyone can appreciate how difficult that was.  That was downhill slope, everything is running towards the water?
RYAN PALMER: Yeah, that was a chip with three different chips in my mind.  Just kind of flip a coin and pick which one to hit.  It wasn't easy, but you know, you find those situations, but you make par and move on.  I love where I'm at, and excited for the weekend.
Q. Sentimental thing, this tournament has a lot of meaning for you.  We're sorry for the loss of your father over the summer.
RYAN PALMER: Yeah, it does.  During the Playoffs, it was a tough time, even the weeks after.  It's nice to -- I wanted to come here, knowing dad was a big Shriner back home, so coming here was an easy decision.  You know, it's nice that I'm playing well, too.
Q. How is it playing different than yesterday?
RYAN PALMER: Greens are firming up for sure, a lot quicker, and some of these pin placements today were -- you needed to be careful.  I played pretty conservative on a lot of them, and that's probably why I didn't have as many close opportunities.  But I played smart throughout the day I felt.
Q. Do you think you can maybe attack more tomorrow, figuring that the pins will probably be as tough, at some point you have to go after it?
RYAN PALMER: Yeah, we will.  Obviously getting through Friday is a big step because you want to put yourself in position, but yeah, now the focus is on trying to get towards the top going into Sunday.  Tomorrow we'll -- same idea, same strategy, but we'll definitely get a little more aggressive tomorrow, I believe.
Q. Overall just where is your game at, and how pleased are you with the good things you're doing?
RYAN PALMER: It's good this week.  I put a lot of work in during the week with Randy Smith on my putting, and switched my wedges after last week, and I've been driving the ball well and finally got my putting going this week.  Very happy about my game and excited about this week.  Hopefully we can finish this off because I'll be done until January, so try to end this off here with a bang.
Q. Was there any hesitation about coming here or do you feel like your dad would have insisted?
RYAN PALMER: No, obviously when everything happened I had to play.  It was an easy decision for me to come here and play for him.
Q. Would he have been here?
RYAN PALMER: Oh, yeah, they come here every year.  Definitely it was an easy decision for me to play this week, and then I'll shut it down until January.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT