DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 4, 2015
Ryan Palmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 3-under, 68.  Another great round, a good way to start these playoffs, coming off that great week already?
RYAN PALMER: Yeah, it was a good day.  I got off to a good start birdieing the first hole, but kind of played okay the front nine, shooting even par.  Hit some really good mid-iron shots on the back nine.  Finally hit two good tee shots.  I had trouble with my speed today was the only thing that was kind of negative, if there is anything out there.
Great round, very at peace with myself inside the ropes.
Q. How are you doing?  Every day is a new day for you, how are you feeling?
RYAN PALMER: It gets better.  I used to have those moments, obviously, kind of had one this morning when I got out here, but going to have them for a while.
I talked to mom the last few days, she's great.  I'm good.  Trying to be around friends as much as possible.  On the golf course I'm able to control it.  And inside the ropes keeps me calm and I'm actually at peace.
Q. You're already back inside the top 10 here at the Deutsche Bank Championship.
RYAN PALMER: I want to keep plugging along.
Q. Can you sum up the day?
RYAN PALMER: Yeah, it was good.  It was tough.  Just played solid on the front, didn't really get much going.  But I hit some great mid-iron shots on the back nine.  I'm glad to get in at 3-under.  It was a big day.
Q. There might not be too low of scores today?
RYAN PALMER: It was tricky.  We never see this wind.  Most par-5s are downwind, and every one was into the wind today.  There were some tricky spots.  There are some subtle breaks in the greens.  They're playing tricks on our mind, I guess, trying to find the sneaky spots.  But it was a grind.
Q. Which hole had the trickiest wind?  Looks like a lot of guys are struggling with No. 8, which one did you find?
RYAN PALMER: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 -- (laughter).
Yeah, 16 was a tricky one, I thought.  It felt like it was downwind, but to me it was more left-to-right, they had the pin far back.  Hit a 3-wood thinking it was downwind.  But 16, it played probably more left-to-right, if anything.
It was good.  The greens are a little soft.  You can hit some good shots into some of those pins.  It's a good golf course.  They changed a few things around, so that's good.
Q. When you got here today did you think 3-under would be near the top of the leaderboard?
RYAN PALMER: No, you come here every week thinking this golf course will be 4, 5, 6, 7-under par.  I think I shot 62 last year on one of the first rounds.
It was tricky, but it was a really good day for me, I thought.
Q. Did you notice Jason's name up there right away, as soon as he was out this morning?
RYAN PALMER: Yeah, three letters, you can't miss it (laughter.)  But Spieth is playing, for sure.  And of course McIlroy, I think he played well today.  So, yeah, you beat Jason Day, you're going to finish top three.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT