THE BARCLAYS
August 29, 2015
Ryan Palmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just comment on your day, if you can.
RYAN PALMER: It was good.  I got lucky on 1 where I hit it and made par somehow off my second shot, but after that, just settled into the round.  Just tried to do like I did in the last few days, just being calm, quiet, and it was nice playing with Robert and Steve, his caddie, who are good friends of ours.  So that kind of helps.
Just trying to do the same thing I've done the last few days and I was able to hit a lot more good shots today.  I hit it close a few times, and was able to make seven birdies, but left a few on the last few holes I felt out there.  Maybe we can get those back tomorrow and have a chance at the end.
Q. What kind of role has James had?  We were chatting earlier about how he has been trying to talk to you in non-golf times; how much is that helping?
RYAN PALMER: It's huge.  Having him and Mike, my manager, is here, trying to have dinners with them.  Monday night was a rough one because I didn't go with anybody, but the rest of the week I've been with them having dinners.  Of course they were there when it happened at our house and they have been there every step.
Them being here this week has been huge.  For me to just kind of keep my mind off of it.  I'm able to come out -- when I get inside the ropes, I get those four hours to not think a whole lot about it and really try to play golf with some peace and comfort.
Q. Is there any way that sanctuary inside the ropes, it's intensified your concentration?
RYAN PALMER: Yeah, I don't want this to happen ever again, but if I can find a way to keep my mind like this for four hours each day.
But no, intensity has been there.  But just the concentration, not letting the shots affect me, I'm always hard on myself but I've not made one comment on one shot all week and I'm able to move on to the next hole and start the next hole with a good shot and I think that's been key for this week for sure.
Q. Would the 16 bunker shot be an example of that?  That looked like a really hard shot but then it comes back down --
RYAN PALMER: I think so.  I'm telling myself, okay, it's okay, got a little bad break there, but making bogey.  And then came back and hit two great shots on 17 and just missed that putt on the low side.
You know what's helped, moments likes that, for sure, because there would be other moments I would probably go to the next hole with a lot of doubt and a lot of frustration and probably wouldn't pull the tee shot off.  I think moments like that definitely helped.  I'm not letting those breaks or shots affect me.  It's been key this week for sure.
Q. How is the interaction, you're getting a lot of support out there.  What has that done for you?
RYAN PALMER: With spectators?  It's been good.  Obviously hearing my name called a lot.  You acknowledge them.  There's a few guys out there, I heard some Texas A&M chant, so that was good.  You kind of wave and move and just kind of keep your mind at peace.  But it's been good.
Q. How difficult will tonight be?  You talked about this being such a tribute to your dad and he had not seen you win before.  How much different do you think tonight will be leading to tomorrow?
RYAN PALMER: Not too different.  We're going to go to dinner here after awhile, and just same thing, my wife is coming in tonight actually, late tonight because we are going to spend the weekend and go watch some tennis Monday and Tuesday.
Other than that, it won't be any different.  I'll go back and watch TV, pack like I normally would on any Saturday night and having dinner with these guys, and relaxing, that keeps my mind off of it for sure.
Q. Do you have to almost keep it out of your head to think about what might be tomorrow if you were to pull this thing off?
RYAN PALMER: I found myself wondering and thinking about it through the day, but then I just kind of come back saying, okay, let's just hit this shot, let's not get too ahead of ourselves yet.  I don't know it's going to be like if it happens.  Got to have to wait and see.
I can't put into words what it would mean for sure.
Q. Did you say earlier in the week that your dad wanted to have some of his ashes spread at Augusta National?
RYAN PALMER: Oh, he's talked about it.  He's probably told my mom that.  We're not going to say we're going to do that just yet.  That might get me in trouble.  But the powers that be over there up in Georgia -- no, we're not going to do that.
Q. Is it almost hard to get behind the wheel after what happened --
RYAN PALMER: It's creeped in my mind for sure, there's no doubt about it.  I mean, it can happen that fast.  But unfortunate that it happened and obviously we're dealing with the pain as best we can.
Q. The way your week is going, what's it done for your mom?
RYAN PALMER: It's been good.  I've talked to her every day and she's got so many people there at home, which is nice.  That's been a big part, too, is being comfortable being out here knowing she's at home okay with friends and family.  They spent the week getting a lot of things taking care of and it's kept me at ease knowing that she's been doing all that and there's people that are helping her.  I think that she's -- it's definitely helped her a lot.
Q. Who do you want to watch at the US Open?
RYAN PALMER: She has to watch Federer one time.  He'll be I think Tuesday night I think.
Q. Will she watch you tomorrow?
RYAN PALMER: She'll be here tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT