THE BARCLAYS
August 28, 2015
Ryan Palmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Comments on your round out there today?
RYAN PALMER: It was very solid.  Coming out early, I didn't think we would get much wind but it picked up throughout the round.  But I was able to take advantage of the back nine, which you have to I think, both par 5s, a couple short holes.  I was able to do that today.  And had some looks on the front side coming in.
Just had one big lip-out and missed a short one.  But overall, I just kept it in the fairway, which I haven't been doing lately.  So it's nice to get the driver back working and I'm able to attack this golf course from the fairway.
Q. Golf course feels like it fits you?  Do you like what you see?
RYAN PALMER: Yeah, I like what I see because I'm able to hit a lot of 5-woods and it's been a big help I think.  But back to working my driver the way I have been in the past.
It's been a rough month with the driver I feel like and finally got back to swinging it well and hitting a lot more fairways, something I'm not used to.  I'm not a big fan of hitting fairways it seems like, if you look at my stats.  But I'm able to hit a lot this week, which you have to.
Q. How difficult has this week been for you, or has it in some ways been easier?
RYAN PALMER: You know, it's been difficult obviously.  Inside the ropes it's been a little easier because I'm able to kind of get away and play with some ease and some peace I think.  Not allow shots to affect me as much, just because I think at the end of the day, we are just playing golf.
I'm able to go out there with a little bit of a calmness.  Talk to Mom every day.  She's at home.  She's good.  She's got so many people around her.  That's comforting knowing that I can be out here doing this and knowing she's got a lot of people around her.
At night, it's tough sometimes when I'm alone.  But you know, you try to just think about the good times and knowing he's peaceful and happy.
Q. How difficult was it to make the decision?
RYAN PALMER: When we found out Tuesday night -- it was pretty -- I knew I was going to play.  The last thing he would have wanted was me not to play.
Like I said before, he was one of those stubborn guys that the last thing he wanted was anybody standing over him.  He didn't want to be in a box, he said, and everybody looking down at him.  Not playing was really not a question.  My mom wouldn't have wanted me not to play.
But it definitely made it -- it would be a lot more memorable if something was to happen this week.  But I'm able to just kind of play with some peace and quiet out there.  Feels good.
Q. What's your best memory of him?
RYAN PALMER: You know, there's a bunch.  Obviously he coached me all sports I played.  Obviously taught me the game of golf.  But probably his shining moment was when he got to play Augusta probably.  He talks about it still.  I remember him talking about it when we got done playing back in 2005.  Of course, he's been to every Masters.  But I would say that that was one of his more special moments we had together.
Q. What would it mean to you to win this week?
RYAN PALMER: It would be huge for the Playoffs.  But it's a long way away.  I mean, I'm not sure, it would be something I have to answer on Sunday afternoon.  But it would be pretty special obviously.
Q. Did he get you interested in the game --
RYAN PALMER: Yeah, learned to play at nine years old.  Didn't teach me much, he was about a six handicap.  But we were blessed -- we were members of the club back home at Tascosa Country Club, and I have a great pro that taught me the game from the fundamental side.  He was always there putting me into the game, taking me to tournaments -- my mom was.
He was there quickly to tell me if I was acting up on the golf course and not being gentleman-like.  I owe a lot of that to him for sure.
Q. How good a golfer was he?
RYAN PALMER: He got to about a six handicap.  That was about as good as he got.  He was good.  Fun to play.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT