ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 10, 2015
Ryan Palmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Tell us about that.RYAN PALMER: I went to -- also being at Chambers Bay, everybody has heard enough about it.  That whole week I just told myself you are going to have a lot of things go wrong because of the way the golf course was.  So I just kind of developed this mindset of hit and giggle.  Hit and giggle it off.  It's going to take some bad bounces. I told James if we can keep that concept the rest of the year, we're going to have a good finish.  I brought it here this week, and yesterday I had a lot of mistakes and just kind of giggled them off, laughed them off. It's kept me calm and relaxed and I've not let the mistakes -- I've not dwelled on them the next shot and it's paid off.Q. Is that something that was a problem for you in the past?RYAN PALMER: Yeah, I've always been hard on myself.  That's good and bad.  Bad being I'm might make a par on a par-5 and get down on myself where I would carry it over to the next hole.  I parred both par-5s yesterday and then parred two today.  It hasn't bothered me at all. Like I said, it's funny that it's called hit and giggle, but that's my mindset and the way I look at it.Q. Tell us about next week.  Have you heard a lot about it?RYAN PALMER: Yeah, it depends on the weather.  I played there and when I played had some wind and it was pretty calm one day.  You can get some funny bounces even out here.  It's a matter of knowing you are going to get those bounces.  If you cannot let them affect you too much, carry on, play well.  We'll carry it on and see what happens.Q. Did you enjoy (indiscernible)?RYAN PALMER: I did a lot.  I played with a friend of mine from New York and getting to know Johan there, and so I had a blast playing there.  The dates have changed this year, so depending on what I do with our TOUR Championship and the Presidents Cup, it's between the two.  It will be hard to get there.Q. (Inaudible)?RYAN PALMER: I am.  I'm getting used to the time change.  It took me until this morning to get normal.  I probably slept seven straight hours to this morning. Just playing with the golf course, the turf, the putting surfaces, getting used to the slower greens, how the ball reacts and the things you can do around the greens from 20, 30 yards off. I think more guys are starting to hear about it.  It's missing John Deere, I love the place, but it's worth it to me to come over and play the Scottish Open.  Plus I love being here.  I've enjoyed it.Q. Off the golf course, there are some things here that you can do?RYAN PALMER: I'm a pub fan.  I'm not going to lie.Q. (Inaudible)?RYAN PALMER: I've gotten into Best.  I'm a light beer drinker at home, but I've enjoyed the Belhaven Best.Q. Is there a local pub?RYAN PALMER: We went to the Golfer's Rest a couple days ago.  Too much golf talk at the Golfer's Rest.  We found the good spots, but it's been nice


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT