AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 29, 2015
Ryan Palmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   So you happy to be done?
RYAN PALMER:   Yeah, man.   Very happy to be done.   Very happy to be done.   That way I don't have laugh to worry about getting up early.   I can sleep in a little bit and plan on teeing off around 11:30, 11:45, which they're looking at.   That's the best case scenario.   It's good knowing that I'm done. 
On the golf side it was a solid day.   Little disappointed the last three, four holes.   I guess I'm going to say the greens were not as smooth because I felt like my putting was off.   I couldn't get comfortable.   But I made two big putts on 16, 17.   So, aside from that, I'm one back.   Did Jimmy birdie 18?

Q.   Still 9-under.
RYAN PALMER:   One back and that's a good place to be.

Q.   How was the light the last few holes?
RYAN PALMER:   It was fine.   No, we had no issues at all.   It was getting dark.   I could see Jimmy in the fairway.   He kept fading away.   It wasn't too bad for us.   It was okay.
Threw the book out of the window today with a few of the tee boxes they put.   It was -- it wasn't as bad though.   I mean, honest with you, some of the spots.   Too bad for this golf tournament.   What the crew did to get ready for is unbelievable.   You got to give those guys a case of beer tonight to let them go relax until they get back up in the morning to do it again.   My hat is off too them.

Q.   Specifically on 14 even the morning guys were saying it was getting pretty chewed up over there.
RYAN PALMER:   The tee box was dead.   We actually brought the official in to look at it.   He agreed but nothing you can do.   It's not fair to the guys that had to play off of it but what do you do?   It's unfortunate with the way with this weather.   There's no way to put it unless you put a mat down.

Q.   They did in the Pro-Am.
RYAN PALMER:   You know, hopefully if we don't get any rain, which I think we're supposed to tonight.   It's too bad.   If it's a par 3 again you got to go with it.   Everybody got to get it. 

Q.   Overall, you feel pretty good going into the weekend?
RYAN PALMER:   That round could have turned around, I think, the wrong way, I felt like.   It was a good round.   I was able to hit some good shots in there and make a few putts on 10, 11.   To finish it off two putts on 16, 17 was huge. I'm 3-under.   Good sleeping.   Nice to sleep in. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT