MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2015
Ryan Palmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Ryan, you had a pretty good round going, you were bogey‑free until 11.   Maybe it didn't end the way you wanted it to.   But assess your day over all. 
RYAN PALMER:   It was good.   Broke 70 on Thursday, which is never a bad thing, especially here in the Masters.   Pretty solid all day.   I got lucky with the tee shot and I actually ended up 3‑putting, which was a little misfortune.   But overall it was great.   I kept it in front of me, tee to green was good today.   Which is the one thing I fight at this golf course, the speed.   And it was very good.

Q.   They were asking some guys just about the hole locations today.   And maybe the pin locations on Thursday maybe being a tough combination on Thursday, maybe to help combat a course that was a little softer, did you feel that?
RYAN PALMER:   I didn't really notice it.   I got the pin sheet this morning.   I went over it and tried to imagine where the bogeys were.   But other than overall, I didn't really notice where the pins were in relation to being tough or not.   I'm sure they can plan them tougher throughout the week.   But the greens are soft. 

Q.   I don't know if you looked up at the leaderboard at all or saw the leaderboard, but at some point you look up and see Jordan Spieth 8‑under, did you kind of have a reaction when you saw that? 
RYAN PALMER:   Yeah, I bogeyed 15.   It was there, I thought.   You could get 6‑, 7‑ , 8‑under par, it was there, it was soft.   And not much wind.   And of course the way he's been playing you expect it.   When you finish the round at 7, that's a phenomenal round, I don't care who you are. 
But again, it's Thursday, you can't win it today, that's for sure.   But I broke 70, which is huge.   And look forward to the morning. 

Q.   You were able to birdie 15 after 14.   And then the nice save out of the sand on 16?
RYAN PALMER:   The putt on 16 was good.   To save par there was huge.   And then I also bogeyed the last hole, but overall it was a good.

Q.   You were talking about the speed of the greens, you had to be happy with that?
RYAN PALMER:   Yeah, the speed was there.   I worked hard yesterday.   And I went out and worked on some putts with Randy on my speed.   And it showed up, the work I've put in on it.

Q.   On 18 you had a pretty good chip, it just caught up in the‑‑
RYAN PALMER:   It was not very good.   Five yards shorter than it should have landed.   It was a good bogey from my tee shot.   So that's the way it goes. 

Q.   This is your 5th time here, and this is the first time you're under 70.   You've got to be happy with that, first round, I mean?
RYAN PALMER:   Yeah, it's huge anytime, to go out and shoot under par, especially to break 70.   It gives you momentum going into Friday.

Q.   Come back with an early tee time tomorrow?   What do you have planned for tonight? 
RYAN PALMER:   My wife is cooking.   We'll go home and play with the kids.   Overall, that's it, just go home and relax and kind of forget about it and chill out.

Q.   Very pleased today?
RYAN PALMER:   Very happy.   Very happy, yeah.   Today was a good day. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT