AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 28, 2015
Ryan Palmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   So, the usual protocol this week with James calling the shots or did you guys do something different this year?  
RYAN PALMER:   No.   We stopped it.   We decided to go back just to what we've been doing all year and on my game plan we do every week.   So, got away from that this week and you know the week I had -- the day I had yesterday with Randy Smith, probably my Pro-Am round was big.   I needed a good kick in the butt.   We spent an hour and a half on the range and now I get it showed today for sure.  
   
 Q.   You talk about your round a little bit, please?  
RYAN PALMER:   I hit it good.   I got my driver back, the pop on it, the distance on it.   Made a lot of long putts I felt like outside of 15, 20 feet which I haven't made a bunch in the past.   My irons were there, my control was good.   
I had a few mistakes.   Other than that -- but I wish I would have made the last one, 18 on No. 9, shoot 6-under but I'll tell you what, a 5-under on Thursdays is huge.  
   
 Q.   Ryan, obviously the last two cuts with today's round, good confidence going into the next one?   
RYAN PALMER:   It helped me get over last week.   Took me a few days to get over there, being my home course Colonial and the way I played.   Plus I wanted to kind of shut up all the fans that wore me out on Twitter.   Hopefully I calmed them down a little bit.   
But, no, it was good, it was great.   The work I put in yesterday it paid off a lot which made me work hard and put the time in to have days like today.  
   
 Q.   I know it's lift, clean and place but the course is obviously a little longer because it's so wet right now.  
RYAN PALMER:   It's longer than it normally plays, of course.   But as far as like I was telling them earlier, the lines day are no different.   You know, you're not going to get the bounce and the rolls but hitting the fairway is big.   Get the ball in the hand, tee it up, especially under the soft conditions.   
You get in some of the rough areas it's still soft, spongy and not being able to cut any rough, it's long.   Hitting the fairways is crucial and lucky today I hit it good and was able to do that.  
   
 Q.   Are the greens slow?  
RYAN PALMER:   No, not at all.   I was surprised how good they rolled, true they rolled for sure and very spongy.   They had good speed.   Not like we're used to seeing but overall they were good speed and you could -- you could be a little more aggressive for sure but overall the greens are good.   Weren't bad.  
   
 Q.   What happens if you get more rain like it's forecast this weekend?  
RYAN PALMER:   It will just be even sloppier.   I brought old shoes of the garage today to wear them today.   I probably keep them on all week.   It's unfortunate what's going on with the weather.   But, you know, they work hard keeping the golf course as good a shape as possible.   They do a good job here.   We keep our fingers crossed that we're going to get some but hopefully not too much.  
   
 Q.   Wind up this afternoon.   Little tougher scoring for those guys if it continues to blow like this?  
RYAN PALMER:   The scores, they weren't low this morning.   Yeah, half dozen guy shoot 4, 5-under, other than the golf course isn't easy.   It's tricky.   It plays tricks on your mind and it takes a little breeze to get you.   I expect I'll get some wind tomorrow afternoon, get ready for that so it's a good test.  
   
 Q.   What did you do this weekend?   Did you watch any of it or were you -- did you want to get away from it?  
RYAN PALMER:   I spent about four hours on Saturday at Dave and Buster's, five hours on Sunday at Main Event Bowling and playing video games.   I guess the only golf I watched was when Chris Kirk finished on Sunday.   I made sure it was fun, my wife and two kids.   We made a nice weekend of video gaming out of it.  
   
 Q.   Was there something specific that you worked on with Randy yesterday?  
RYAN PALMER:   I found my hands were a little low at address on my full shots and the one thing I worked on was getting my hands a little higher which caused me to stand tall already.   
I was able to hit -- shallow my divots out and hitting it a lot more solid.   I got my pop back on the driver which is nice.   I was hitting a lot of good long drivers out there today.   You put that time in so you can come out and have days like this and it's paid off.  
   
 Q.   Seems like you're on this podium every year at this time.  
RYAN PALMER:   It's what I'm getting used to.   It's nice.   It's funny when you go through a stretch of 7 years and don't even know where the podium is at, to be on this everyday the last few years, it's nice.   It shows I'm getting familiar with this golf course and it's a tough golf course which is what I like.   It's been fun.  
   
 Q.   Is it a weird sensation to make your own decisions now in the clubs, though?   You guys haven't done it.  
RYAN PALMER:   We talked about it, "Let's go back to how we do it normally."   We've had a good year.   We've been playing well so why change that up.   You know, it gives me more confidence to hit the shots I want to hit instead of relying on what he's telling me.  
   
 Q.   Taking in some baseball tonight?  
RYAN PALMER:   Yeah.   It will be fun.   I don't know how many are doing it, supposed to throw out one of the first pitches tonight so sending me a baseball jersey with my name on it.   I'll support that.   
I'll take my son and wife and some friends, we're going to do batting practice.   Good friend with Darren Oliver.   We're going to go spend some time on the diamond.  
   
 Q.   Any tips on the first pitch?  
RYAN PALMER:   Everybody keeps telling me, "Get it there, get it there."   I'm going to throw it over his head before I throw it short.   I pitched a little bit when I was younger.   I can throw it a little bit.   We'll see what happens.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT