WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 1, 2015
Ryan Palmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Overall, 14-under this week.  Your game is trending in the right direction.  Overall pleased with where your game is heading right now?  RYAN PALMER: Yeah, I am.  I didn't realize it, but James told me when I finished I didn't make a bogey on the weekend.  I didn't realize that until we got done. I'm not going to hang my head down.  It was a great week.  Had some chances there at the end.  Come up one short, looks like, but overall a great week.   Q.  Overall, looking forward, is this close to the best you have been playing, taking last year into consideration?  RYAN PALMER: Oh, there is no doubt.  It's the best I have played in my career, for sure.  I still think there is a lot of improvement in certain areas.  Some tee shots I have hit down the stretch have gotten a little wayward on me, so tighten those up coming down the stretch in future events, maybe we can lock one of these tournaments up one week.   Q.  You said you had some opportunities.  One or two that stick out?  RYAN PALMER: Not birdieing 13 probably hurt a little bit.  14.  I thought I made it on 16.  17 was not easy, but definitely birdable.  Not hit the fairway on 18 with a wedge in my hand kind of hurt. I can look at different shots here and there, but I gave myself a chance.  That's all I can really ask for.   Q.  16, 17, 18, all three of them could have gone.  None of them did.  RYAN PALMER: Yeah, no, it did.  I thought the one on 17 was in, for sure.  The one on 16, I could tell the speed wasn't there. You know, I had a chance.  That's all I can ask for.  I'm a little disappointed.  I think I could have made a couple better, I felt.  You know, I didn't make a bogey on the weekend.  James reminded me of that on that last hole.  Pretty proud of that kind of golf.   Q.  The drive at 13 into the bunker maybe cost you.  Who knows if you would have put it in the fairway if you would have gone on the green in two, but it eliminated any chance of going for that green.  RYAN PALMER: Yeah, it did.  Not birding that hole definitely kind of stung a bit, but I was still there.  Nobody was far enough ahead of me.  To get one there -- I probably could have maybe got one back on 14, as well.  It's easy to look at that, but I had a chance, and, you know, we will get ready for next time.   Q.  I know it's disappointing today, but in weeks to come you realize your game is rounding into form very early in the year.  Congratulations on a good tournament.  RYAN PALMER: Thank you.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT