BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 5, 2014
Ryan Palmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Did you start the day thinking this is a day to score well?RYAN PALMER: I knew it was going to play a little softer with the rain.  I guess they got an inch I heard. When I played the first hole and saw a few approach shots, I told James, it's going to be a -- this course is for the taking, I think.  If you put the ball in play and make the pars where you need to.  I was able to do that today. It was nice to make eagle there on 7.  But to make birdie four of the last five holes, it was a great way to finish.  I was glad I was one of the ones that shot low.Q. According to Shot Link, you only had like three fairways hit.  Were you close on a lot of them, and they just didn't count it on the stats?RYAN PALMER: Is that all? (Laughter.)  Maybe so. I think that's what was so not easy, but you were able to take advantage of that of the softness of the greens.  You could play from the rough a lot. I had a lot of wedges out of the rough, and balls were even stopping and spinning back out of the rough, as well. So, it was -- I didn't feel like I hit the ball bad to miss that many fairways.  Just the way this golf course is set up, the way it's designed, it makes you lay back a lot. But, a lot of my good tee shots I thought were fairways, fairways for me, just weren't in the fairway. But, I drew a lot of good lies and was able to hit a lot of good shots on the green from the rough today.Q. Talk about the shot at 7.RYAN PALMER: Yeah, I just pull hooked the drive a little more than I wanted and I got lucky.  So I had like a little 30 yard pitch shot.  And Seung's ball was right there, so I was going to use his ball as a back stop, if I needed it. And I just hit a nice little perfect pitch, perfect distance, and it rolled just short of his ball and rolled in like a putt.  So, it's one of those shots you don't expect to make like that, but it's nice when you do.Q. Talk about the finish.  How much of that gives you momentum going into the weekend?  You are obviously feeling good about the day.RYAN PALMER: No, it's huge.  Especially for me, I struggled yesterday making some putts.  So to make some putts like I did on 17 and 18. It's huge for me confidence-wise, momentum-wise, with the putter going into tomorrow, and I'm enjoying playing with Sergio a lot.  So if that holds up I'll like forward to that, for sure.Q. (No Microphone.)RYAN PALMER: I know where I stand, there's no doubt.  I knew it was 8th place or better for me I think is what I saw.  Maybe Top-12.  But that's the way it is.  You know what you got to do. So, I had plenty of confidence coming into the week.  So it was a matter of me just taking care of it and just playing my game and let that all hopefully take care of itself.Q. With the changes in the weather and the course setup, is it tough to maybe target a score that might take to win this?RYAN PALMER: No, it's hard to say.  If they don't get any nor rain I can see it firming up a little more.  I think the greens should be a little softer still tomorrow, I think.  So, if the wind blows like it did today, it was tricky out there at times for sure with the wind.  So, a hopefully whatever the score is, it's mine. (Laughter.)Q. So it sound like Saturday will be a day to score, you better take advantage of that.RYAN PALMER: I think if the greens stay, soft, yeah, of course, I'm going to need to shoot under par again, a good round, just to stay in the hunt.  But I'm not going to go out and expect to shoot a certain number or look to shoot a certain number.  I mean just keep doing what I'm doing.  The game's there.  It's a matter of just kind of staying out of the way.Q. Growing up in Texas you probably didn't play a lot at altitude?RYAN PALMER: We played a bunch during the international and playing at Reno.  So I experienced it enough to know -- James and I got a good formula on what we do.  It's worked.Q. What do you enjoy about playing with Sergio?RYAN PALMER: He's fun.  I mean, obviously, energetic, he's one of our big guys on TOUR, I guess you could say, but you know what you're going to get playing with him.  The last time I played with him I lost in a playoff, so I'm going to go with that.Q. What stands out about his game?RYAN PALMER: Obviously his short game.  I mean that's for sure.  When he gets his putter going, but he drives the ball well.  Hits it a long way as well.  But it will be fun.  I'm not going to worry about watching what he does, obviously.  But all I can do is kind of do what I'm doing and hopefully come Sunday I've got a chance to win this thing.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT