BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 7, 2014
Ryan Palmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  RYAN PALMER: Poor swing on 12.  Probably the worst swing of the day or maybe for the week. 13, I don't know what happened, man.  I thought I had a decent lie.  It wasn't very good, obviously.  It came out straight right. (Laughter.) But other than from there, I think, it was the same as all week.  I just could not get putts to fall.  I really -- I putted really good Friday.  But as far as 15, 20 feet, I don't think I made much this week. But, I accomplished my goal.  That is all I can say.   Q.  So, it wasn't the rough that caused that?  RYAN PALMER: It was down.  I was trying to go down at it to hoist it up, and it was just one of those things that can happen.  When you're going down in rough like that on a downhill lie, it's going to come out squirrely.  And it came out straight right, obviously, with a hook from the hosel.  But, you know, it was 11 great holes.  I will say that. So, I was there, that's all I can ask for.  And like I said, I took care of the one objective this week.  And that was getting into next week.  So, I'm happy about that.   Q.  What happens on a shot like that, how often does that happen?  RYAN PALMER: A shank?  Not very often.  But, I'm going with the downhill, down in the rough, I'm blaming it on that.  But it happens.  You know, it's a fickle game.   Q.  Overall though, you accomplished your goal, you played pretty, you played really well this week, you got to feel somewhat confident going into East Lake.  RYAN PALMER: Oh, of course.  I'm excited.  I took care of that.  I'm in the Masters next year, I'm in the U.S. Open next year, I'm back in the British Open next year.  I get to go to China this fall, so I took care of five big goals.  And that's all I can really ask for. I'm ecstatic that I did that.  It will hurt for a little while, not very long though.  The 40 on the back, you know, but I was there.  That's all I can ask for.   Q.  Taking care of all those goals.  Were you cognizant of that at all today, or did you feel like because of the position were you in, that you didn't have to worry about the Top-30 at all today?  RYAN PALMER: I started the round at 15.  I was thinking about it.  James told me on 17, I said, if we get two greens, two greens is plenty.  Let's just get two shots from it.  You got a two shot cushion, he said. So, I knew exactly where I stood.  I hit a great shot on 18, it just didn't draw at the tee.  So, you know, made bogey, but that's okay.  But, like I said, a tie for fourth, 7th top-10 of the year, so it's an awesome year.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT