PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2014
Ryan Palmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I know it's kind of a tough pill to swallow the way you finished, but I thought you played pretty solidly again today?  
RYAN PALMER:   I did.   That was a big step for me coming out today, in that situation and that kind of atmosphere.   To shoot under par and break 70 was huge.   I hit the ball great all day.   We thought the ball would fly on 17 and sure enough it did.   Unfortunately where my ball ended up on 18 but got a good par making that putt.   
I'll be four back at the most.   You know I was five back going into Honda on Sunday and lost in a playoff, so build on that.   
   
 Q.   You're only going to be four back depending what happens on 18; would you have taken four back at the beginning of the week?  
RYAN PALMER:   Oh, no doubt, yeah, of course I would have.   I'm excited.   Obviously never been in this position in a major event obviously.   I've got a lot going for me.   Especially the way I drove it today; carry that out there tomorrow and make a few more putts, and I'll have a chance.   
   
 Q.   You sure looked solid on those six to eight‑foot par putts today?  
RYAN PALMER:   Yeah, my short putting has been really good.   It was great at The Open, and carried over to this week.   If I can get more of those to drop tomorrow, I feel I'll have a chance coming down 18 tomorrow.   
I played good today.   I hit the ball really solid.   Very pleased the way I played, especially being in this position for the first time in a major championship.   If I can get a few more putts to fall tomorrow, who knows, we're going to go for it.   
I felt great all morning, and even on the golf course all day.   Never felt like I was tightening up over a shot.   Unfortunate the way I finished, by four back going into tomorrow and a lot can happen in 18 holes of golf.  
   
 Q.   How is the crowd?   
RYAN PALMER:   It's awesome.   My hat is off to Louisville and these people out here.   They have been fun.   The atmosphere, it was energetic all day.   You could hear the crowd with Phil's group and Rory's group.   It's going to be exciting tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT