THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 2, 2014
Ryan Palmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   That third shot, Ryan, from the fairway at 18, what were you thinking as it was in the air?  
RYAN PALMER:   I thought I flagged it, I really did.   I was posing on that one.   I knew it was a little right‑to‑left and not helping but the yardage we had with the wedge that I had in my hand, I thought I hit it tight.   
But you know, unfortunate to make bogey there.   But I tell you what, I'm so proud of the way I just stayed quiet with myself, calm, slowly walked all day, hit the ball really well, putted really good, and I gave myself a chance.   That's all I can ask for.   
   
 Q.   They saw knowledge is power, the manual scoreboard coming down 18, I know you thought you hit it good.   
RYAN PALMER:   I did.   I was posing pretty good on it.   I guess there was a little more hurt than I thought James and I talked about.   A little misfortune there, bogey on 18.   The tee ball, I could get home in two easy, just flare it right.   James told me on the last putt, he made double, so I had to buckle down and make that one.  
I'm proud of the way I hung in, fought.   I was calm all day, relaxed.   Never got hurried, tight, nervous and made some good putts.   See what happens.   But I'm just proud of the way I handled myself today.  
   
 Q.   Crazy things are still going to happen, but I thought tee‑to‑green you struck it beautifully today and just a couple of putts, you put yourself right there.   
RYAN PALMER:   I really did.   I didn't hit the ball as well yesterday but I putted great yesterday and I knew if I could bring that putting today and hit it good, I would have a chance.   Fast start was nice and kept me going.   
But just a little misfortune on 16, making bogey there.   Hit a pretty decent shot and tugged it a little bit, carried it a little bit more and tough lie there, and of course the bogey on 18.   It's tough out there but I'm happy today and I'm pretty excited the way I'm playing.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT