HUMANA CHALLENGE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CLINTON FOUNDATION
January 17, 2014
Ryan Palmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   A bit of a slow start yesterday.   Somewhat the same today but 16‑under through your last 30 holes is pretty good.   Talk about that. 
RYAN PALMER:   Yeah, it has been a slow start, it seems like.   Today I was actually a couple under through 8 and then bogeyed my ninth hole, 18.   And kind of struggled the next couple holes, just making par.   So, yeah, I was kind of telling myself, you can't shoot 1 or 2‑under today, you got to still shoot some scores and I made a great birdie on number 5.   Or number 4.   And then hit a great 5‑iron to about five feet on five for eagle and then 2‑putted six or birdie as well and then made a great putt on 7.   So overall it was another great day, another great finish, hanging in there, staying strong and finishing off a good round.

Q.   That birdie on 18, is that going to carry you forward a little for tomorrow?
RYAN PALMER:   It was a nice taste.   A little disappointed on 8.   I hit a good 50 degree wedge, didn't come up where I wanted, hit a bad putt and then didn't hit a good shot there.   But ended up making a putt from off the green, so definitely it will make dinner taste good tonight and going into tomorrow sitting where I'm at is a great spot. 

Q.   About tomorrow, 15‑under, that's great for two rounds, but maybe a couple shots back going into the weekend.   How do you approach it?
RYAN PALMER:   No, it's great.   For me it's been good because this course has usually been my nemesis it seems like, La Quinta Country Club, I've never been able to shoot a low round.   But coming out today and shooting as well as I did, that's big for me.   So going into Nicklaus, where I played well, looking forward to a good day.

Q.   Top‑10 last week so you're obviously feeling good?
RYAN PALMER:   Yeah, the game's great.   Randy and I put some good work into it and even the first few days this week we did some work, but the putter has been rolling and I'm playing with a lot of confidence. 

Q.   What is it about this course that in the past do you think has been, has made it your nemesis?
RYAN PALMER:   Probably knowing the greens are perfect.   You don't get a few putts to go in, it can get, it can wear on you and get frustrating.   And today I was able to just kind of sit back and relax and knowing I had some good holes coming up and sitting 1‑under through 12 holes.   It was starting to get almost irritating, but I stayed strong and had some great shots coming in and made a few putts.   These courses, they're not very hard with these conditions and when you get on perfect greens like La Quinta Country Club is, you better shoot under par.

Q.   At the risk of asking you a stupid question, I guess it's all everyone's different philosophy, do you prefer to be where you are heading into the weekend or would you rather be the one stepping into Saturday with that two‑shot lead?
RYAN PALMER:   Oh, I mean anywhere within four or five shots is where you want to be going into Saturday.   Because tomorrow if it comes with another low round ‑‑ and it's hard to keep doing it back to back‑‑ but I feel pretty good with what I'm doing. 
So I love where I'm at.   I'll be one or two shots back going into tomorrow, which is fine.   But I can't worry about what they're doing, so as long as I can keep playing well and posting another 5‑ or 6‑under par tomorrow, I'll be right there.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT