HUMANA CHALLENGE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CLINTON FOUNDATION
January 19, 2014
Ryan Palmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You got out there, you got into a rhythm and then finished strong.   You did it again today with a strong finish?  
RYAN PALMER:   I finally got off to a good start today.   Through nine holes I shot 4‑under on the front.   That was ‑‑ that's what has kept me from being more under par, but I played the back nine unbelievable this week.   
Today I got off to pretty good start, shooting 4‑under and then kind of hung in there and made an unbelievable putt on 11 for birdie, from about 20 feet.   Which I think kept me going.   And hit some good shots coming in.   And that shot I hit left on 18, I got a good bounce and made an unbelievable putt.   So yeah, a special week.   
What can you do with what Patrick did this week, it's ridiculous what he did.   Amazing how good he played.   It looks like we'll come up a couple short, but it was a win in my game because I was playing for second this week today.   
   
 Q.   You don't have to admit that shot on 18, it was perfect in my eyes.   There was no tug there at all.   When you look at today and you get to the back side, you played well on the front.   You get a chance to look at a couple of leaderboards on the back nine.   Did you see that Patrick may have given you a chance on the back nine?  
RYAN PALMER:   Without a doubt.   When we got to the back, I told James, I said if we can get two more and then eagle 18, get to 27 or 28, then we got a chance.   And it looks that way.   
But I had a bad swing on 16 and a bad swing on 17 and made pars.   But I got to 18 and said we'll finish second this week.  
   
 Q.   You've had success here before.   It looks like a solo second for you.   What is it about getting into a flow when you have to go so low?  
RYAN PALMER:   I love being here, I love playing these golf courses.   The weather's always perfect and when I get it going I can shoot low.   I can make a lot of birdies.   And I take that, when I come here each week.   I'm comfortable with the house, the people I stay with at Indian Wells, we have a great time all week and it keeps me relaxed.   And I'm able to come out here and just enjoy the week.   
   
 Q.   Was the approach pretty much entering the day just to try to get second?  
RYAN PALMER:   Yeah, we talked about it.   There was two tournaments today, there's Patrick trying to win it and trying to win second place.   That was our goal.   When we started the day we were three back, not 10 back, that's the way we looked at it.   
I kept an eye on that and Patrick obviously didn't play as well, but it seemed like we had a chance there, I guess, but we come up short.  
   
 Q.   I don't know if you were doing any scoreboard watching on the back nine, if you were, did you see any chance, any hole where you thought you might have a chance of catching him?  
RYAN PALMER:   Yeah, I did.   After 13 I was 23 under and I got to 24 through 14.   And I figured that ‑‑ I'm sorry, through 15, birdied 15 to get to 24.   I thought if I can get two more on 16 and 17 and possibly eagle 18.   27 or 28 I had a chance.   But just a couple bad swings on 16 and 17.   And I thought with three holes to go I had a chance.   I had to go birdie, birdie, eagle.   But I ended up making eagle and finishing second, so it's a great week.   
   
 Q.   That's not impossible out here, fairly realistic, birdie, birdie eagle?  
RYAN PALMER:   Not on those holes coming in, because I had a gap wedge on 16 and a lob wedge on 17 and just two poor swings.   But other than that, you know, what do you do?   You give it a shot and, we played great and finished second, so it's a great week.  
   
 Q.   Overall, what was working out there for you today?  
RYAN PALMER:   Putting.   I putted great today.   After putting bad yesterday we did some work, yes, I did but I made a lot of good putts, 15, 20 footers all day.   I hit a lot of good shots, but I putted awesome today.  
   
 Q.   How do you feel about your game and your form early this season?  
RYAN PALMER:   I'm excited.   I'm looking forward to going home and see the family and tomorrow's my son's 7th birthday.   But I would love to keep it going, I would like to be playing good going into Phoenix, where I've had success, and a place where I love to play.   So I'm excited with the weeks ahead.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT