SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 9, 2014
Ryan Palmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   That was one of the better rounds of the afternoon.   You've got to be happy with it.   
RYAN PALMER:   Very happy.   Yeah, it was a little rough going the first hole, bogeying the first hole, but I've done it many times and played well.   So I just had a good idea of what I was doing with my golf game, and I hit it great.   I hit it good and made some putts early on in the front nine and I just couldn't get a birdie going on the back, and then found the hole on 17 and a good birdie on 18.  
   
 Q.   Birdie‑birdie finish for you.   You've got to have good feelings as a former champion every time you come back here?  
RYAN PALMER:   I do.   I always think about how the whole week started, and you try to do it again.   That's hard, but it's always nice to go back to where you've won, and I enjoy coming here.   I love coming to the island and playing in this tournament.   You know, I'm off to a good start, so hopefully we'll continue.  
   
 Q.   Talk about that line you took off of 18.   It was like 350 out there.   
RYAN PALMER:   Yeah, I can get the driver up pretty easy, and I just kind of try to tee it as high as I can and tried to hit a big ol' pull draw.   It just went through barely, but it's fun on that hole knowing I can hit a big draw.  
   
 Q.   Was the golf course playing tough this afternoon?   We thought with the winds down we would see a lot of low numbers.   The golf course is playing faster than it has in some years.   
RYAN PALMER:   I think it's playing good.   I actually thought there would be more lower ones this morning, too.   I knew 7s and 6s were out there, but I thought there would be a couple of them.   I knew it wasn't playing all that easy, but when you get‑‑ the fairways here get firm, it's probably the hardest fairways on TOUR to hit, and it's the rough is tough to play out of.   Just got to play the flier lie, I guess.   But good day.  
   
 Q.   And you get the fresh greens in the morning?  
RYAN PALMER:   Yeah, I look forward to that.   It's always nice to play late on Thursday and then play well because you're out early with good greens.   I'm looking forward to a movie tonight, talk to the wife back home, and we'll see you in the morning.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT