PLAYSTATION FIESTA BOWL: PENN STATE VS WASHINGTON
December 27, 2017
Tevis Bartlett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TEVIS BARTLETT: If we can limit their big plays, you see, I don't even know how many games in a row it was Saquon Barkley had a long touchdown run.  So limiting those kind of plays and I think if you can do those things, then you're going to have a good chance.   
 Q.  What does it mean to go up against a team like Penn State, their tradition, in game like the Fiesta Bowl?  
TEVIS BARTLETT: It's pretty awesome.  It's pretty special.  I think we're pretty blessed to be in that situation.  There's a lot of people that play four or five years in college and never make it to a bowl game like this against a team like this.  And so for me it's a great experience, and I'm just going to try and take in as much as I can and enjoy it as much as I can.   
 Q.  (Question about wrestling)  
TEVIS BARTLETT: I understand the position, obviously I don't know all the moves and all the counters.   
 Q.  As far as kicked in the head?  
TEVIS BARTLETT: Kicked in the head.  In wrestling, you don't worry about somebody locking up your ankle on bottom to where you have to tap out, kind of thing.  But I think it would be pretty fun.  I don't know if I would do it.  You gotta be kind of crazy.  A little bit loose in the head.   
 Q.  You got a little crazy in there.  
TEVIS BARTLETT: Yeah, we all kind of do if we're playing football, right?   
 Q.  But then the smart side kicks in, too?  
TEVIS BARTLETT: Yeah.  It would be cool --   
 Q.  (Inaudible) coming from wrestling?  
TEVIS BARTLETT: It's a lot of position stuff.  Yeah, you look at a lot of the really good ones, they come from wrestling backgrounds, yeah.   
 Q.  What do you weigh right now?  
TEVIS BARTLETT: About 240.   
 Q.  You take a look at those guys at 240, do they look different?  
TEVIS BARTLETT: Yeah, because when you're training, wrestling-wise, that kind of, I guess you could call it hand-to-hand combat, your body just shreds all of the fat.  It's so lean.   
 Q.  You're really at 240?  
TEVIS BARTLETT: Yeah.  When I was in high school, my senior year, I was wrestling -- I started the season, wrestling 220, and I'm like I'm not doing this.  I started at 210 and just by the end of the season I was consistently weighing out at practice at 199.   
 Q.  I heard you on the radio back then, you said you were close to 200.  
TEVIS BARTLETT: It was low.   
 Q.  I was thinking he'll have to bulk back up.  Did your coaches say anything when you got that light?  
TEVIS BARTLETT: No, it's just how it is.   
 Q.  Is it harder to drop it or put it back on, for a guy like you?  
TEVIS BARTLETT: If it's like gradually, it's not that hard to drop.  For a while putting it on was -- it's a process.   
You got to be on your protein and gotta be on your lifting and gotta be on your hydration.  People always ask me that.  Tell us about wrestling.  I'm like, well, it takes a lot of self-discipline.  For example, you got weights right at the beginning of the season which is, by the way, right after Thanksgiving.   
So you get to sit at Thanksgiving dinner and just pass the mashed potatoes and gravy right by you, have a little piece of turkey.  That takes some self-discipline, Thanksgiving dinner, not gore yourself with food.  So it's definitely harder not eating than eating.   
 Q.  Not eating takes more self-discipline; eating takes work.  
TEVIS BARTLETT: That's a good way to put it, I guess.   
 Q.  Where are you heading when you're done, heading back to Seattle?  
TEVIS BARTLETT: After the game?  Well, I'm going to head back to Wyoming.  My birthday is on the 1st.  I'm going to go spend that with my family.  And then we have school on next Wednesday.   
 Q.  You're going back to school?  
TEVIS BARTLETT: Yeah, I still have another year.   
 Q.  I thought you were a senior.  
TEVIS BARTLETT: Because I played as a true freshman.  That's probably why.  I've been around for a while.   
 Q.  Are you going to wind up back in Wyoming eventually, then?  
TEVIS BARTLETT: I would like to, just to be close to home.  I want to be an educator.  Wyoming pays their educators very well and the cost of living is a lot less than Seattle.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT