MLB WORLD SERIES: YANKEES v BRAVES
October 24, 1999
Scott Brosius
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Sorry to be repetitive. The way you started this World Series, does it make you
nostalgic for last year's World Series?
 
 SCOTT BROSIUS: I don't know. You know, again, I really believe that each year, each
game is a clean slate. And I don't think there's such a thing as a carryover really in
baseball, but at least from the team perspective and on the personal side, it's nice to,
you know, start any series off on a good note. Obviously, to be able to pull that one out
last night to get us ahead, you know, by a game, is a good start. It's always nice, too,
to kind of get those first couple hits out of the way, maybe feel like they will come a
little easier for the rest of the series. 
 
Q. In terms of the three singles off a very, very tough pitcher, could you go over what
approach you took into the game or any of the at-bats; staying within yourself part of it?
 
 SCOTT BROSIUS: I'm not sure you have an approach against those guys. He's a really good
pitcher. My thought was try to be aggressive and hope he makes a mistake. That's really
all that happened. Both the first couple hits, he was ahead in the count, and I think he
would be the first to say they were just fastballs that stayed up in the zone more than he
wanted them to and they found holes. 
 
Q. I know this is a little ancient history. Can you go over what your feelings were
when Oakland traded you here?
 
 SCOTT BROSIUS: That is kind of ancient. I was excited, obviously. Just because when,
you know, you go through a year like I went through in Oakland last year and as a team
struggling like we did as a team to come over and realize that you have a chance to play
on a team that can win the championship, it was like a shot in the arm for me, personally.
I mean it's -- you know, not that I didn't enjoy my time in Oakland, but this is what you
play for, this is, as a player, you want the opportunity to get to the World Series and
try to win it. So for me, it was a real lift to know that I had a chance to be a part of
that. 
 
Q. What are some of the things that impress you the most about David Cone?
 
 SCOTT BROSIUS: Coney is just, he's just a competitor. He's a battler. Everybody knows
the history on him. I know when I was in Oakland, he came off after the aneurism surgery
and threw seven no-hit innings against us having not pitched in months. He's just a guy
that's capable of going out there every time with great stuff, whether he's had two days
off or ten days off. He's resilient, and you just know every time he's going to give you
100 percent of what he's got. 
 
Q. Where is your '98 World Series MVP trophy displayed?
 
 SCOTT BROSIUS: I'm not sure it's displayed right now, to be honest with you. It was
downstairs, I have a room downstairs that has a pool table and I was honestly, when I had
said last year I didn't have a place for it, I really don't. It's kind of sitting on a
shelf down there, it just doesn't get torn up being on the floor. At some point I'll have
somewhere for it, but I'll just kind of wait and see if there's a -- just by the time
everything's said and done, you know, just a place to display things like that. But until
then, it's kind of hanging out at home. 
 
Q. You come from one of the most laid back states in the country, you came up through
one of the most laid back organizations in the country, how have you been able to thrive
in the exact opposite place?
 
 SCOTT BROSIUS: It's exciting. I love to play in New York. It was totally -- and I
really was -- when the trade happened, I thought: Oh, boy, I got to spend six months in
New York. It's not a very comfortable place to come as a visiting player. Everything you
hate about New York as a visitor, you love as a home player. And we stay outside the city
up north, and that's as much as Oregon as any place I've played at. Even California. I
feel comfortable out there. Jennifer and the kids love it out there. It was a comfortable
place for us from day one. 
 
Q. When you say it's as much as Oregon, specifically what are you talking about?
 
 SCOTT BROSIUS: Well, weather, surroundings, you know, the place -- we live up north
there. You have trees, you have lakes, you have rivers, so as far as just, you know,
surroundings, it's very much like Oregon. And also the people. The people that we live
near, it's like a throw-back almost, the town. We leave and we don't lock our doors. We
never did that in California. It's just -- we just felt like we were real fortunate to
just end up in a place not just with the team but just personally where we fit in real
well and are real comfortable. 
 
Q. When Darryl Strawberry had his problems earlier during the year, how disappointing
was that for you guys as teammates and what was the process like in welcoming him back
this year?
 
 SCOTT BROSIUS: The only time we were disappointed is not having him around. We weren't
disappointed in him or those type of things. Everybody understands that there's nobody
that walks around here that hasn't made a mistake. And we all understand that, so we're
excited to have him back. You know, everybody, we welcomed him back with open arms. He was
a big part of things last year and didn't get a chance to go through the post-season, so
to have him back this year and be able to go through it, I think everybody feels good for
him. 
 
Q. Has it been tough at all to focus on baseball this last month, just given the
personal tragedy you had during the season?
 
 SCOTT BROSIUS: There's been times. No question it's been more difficult this -- a more
difficult year this year than it was last year focus-wise. There's been times where, you
know, obviously my mind's kind of been in two places at one time and it's difficult to,
you know, to really keep the focus 100 percent. But we're also at a time now where, you
know, I know that this is what we play for, this is kind of the apex of the year, and in
another week, you know, win or lose, I'm going to go home. So I'll have the opportunity at
that point to deal with the things that I need to and take care of the things that I need
to, so it's a little bit easier at this point now to kind of put those other things on
hold knowing that -- you know, some time soon I'll be back to take care of that. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT