EA SPORTS MAUI INVITATIONAL
November 24, 2013
Mark Few
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  JIMMY DYKES:   Our last coach means as much to Gonzaga basketball as Jim Boeheim means to Syracuse.   Mark Few is in his 15th season at Gonzaga.   He led the zags to an NCAA Tournament bid every year since he's been named head coach back in 1999.   Prior to that he spent nine years as an assistant at Gonzaga, and every year his name comes up for whatever job is out there, and every year Mark Few is very happy and content to continue to be a Zag. 
He led his program to a new record last year, No. 1 seed in the NCAA Tournament and overall No. 1 seed.   They won the 2009 EA Sports Maui Invitational.   He spends time here.   This is one of his favorite places.   I'm probably getting ready to say what he's going to talk about.   Maui is one of his favorite places.   He comes here every year in the off‑season with his family to surf and enjoy what's going on.   He's a family guy.   And again, great description.   You look up talented coach, low maintenance, it's Mark Few.   Mark? 
COACH FEW:   Thanks, Jimmy.   I just want to kind of, again, say this is like a great place for the Zags.   This is our fourth time here.   We've had some fantastic memories if you think back to a triple overtime game against Michigan State with Adam Morrison, which is probably 8 or 9 years ago to the last time we were here.   We brought a team we didn't know much about, and we were able to play very, very well, which Archie was referencing and get out of here with a championship. 
Having been in four of these, I can say much like Jimmy started this conference with, this is probably as balanced a crew as I've seen, and I really truly believe that I think we're going to see maybe six or seven teams in the NCAA Tournament starting with Archie's team next to me. 
Just watching film on them the last couple days I'm unbelievably impressed with how hard they play, how tough they are and they've got a great plan.   You know, looking at this table hearing the descriptors, it seems kind of weird.   Because now we're talking about Archie and Richard.   It doesn't seem that long ago that I was theoretically the young guy in the group, and now that's kind of depressing in a way. 
But this is the premier tournament, and we play in all of them, and this is the one we put on the map every year.   We talk about it in recruiting.   Our fans talk about it.   Our players talk about it.   It's a great place.   Your family's come out here and hearing the stories on the families on the way out here, as I was listening to that at any moment here those are my two kids playing football out there and I was about ready to go collar my 13‑year‑old for cheap‑shotting my 11‑year‑old.   So that is kind of the balance we have as coaches on this trip.   Fortunately, I think they just quit. 
So, anyhow, I think it's going to be a great tournament.   I'm very, very impressed and nervous about what we've got with Dayton here, because I think they're a terrific team, and I think Archie is doing an unbelievable job.   Should be a fun week. 
JIMMY DYKES:   Again, just want to let you know how important this event is to ESPN.   How much we appreciate what Dave Odom and all you folks here do for us, and the entire island just rolls out the red carpet for us year after year.   It's a special event because of the people that are behind it.   So from ESPN, I want to say thank you to all those folks that make this happen.   With that, I'll turn it back over to Palmer. 
PALMER MOODY:   Thank you very much, Jimmy, and thank you very much coaches. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT