NCAA MEN'S REGIONAL SEMIFANLS & FINALS: MEMPHIS
March 27, 2009
Mark Few
Josh Heytvelt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 North Carolina- 98
  Gonzaga - 77 
  
 THE MODERATOR: At this time we'll get started with Gonzaga post-game news conference. As you see, we have head coach Mark Few along with student-athletes Josh Heytvelt and Jeremy Pargo. We'll start with a few comments from Coach Few, and then we'll take questions first for the student-athletes. Coach?   
 COACH MARK FEW: Well, we ran into a great basketball team tonight. They played great. When they are shooting the ball like that, especially from the three-point line, I think it's going to be tough for anybody to beat them.   
 You know, you just tip your hat to them. They played a great game. My guys battled. We had our chances. We got it back to 11, and then Bobby Frasor hit back to back threes and kind of drove that thing up.   
 We knew it was going to be a high possession game, and we even felt good at the half when we got in there, I think, down 11.   
 But just could never quite get a handle on stopping them. I think we had some turnovers and some poor shots on offense, which that just fuels their fire. We pride ourselves on being a great transition team, but they were much better than we were tonight.   
 THE MODERATOR: We'll take questions for Josh and Jeremy.   
  
  Q. Josh, do you ever recall playing a basketball game that you started in which you didn't get a rebound? And the second part of this question is can you just evaluate the way Tyler Hansbrough played tonight?   
 JOSH HEYTVELT: Off the top of my head, I don't know if I had one before this or not.   
 Tyler's a really good basketball player. And I don't think he played out of his mind. I think he had just a good game. Their entire team just played great.   
 THE MODERATOR: No questions for Josh and Jeremy. We'll open it up for questions for coach Mark Few. Are there any questions?   
  
  Q. Mark, I was going to ask you a little bit about their play in the first half and how well they took care of the basketball almost the entire half.   
 COACH MARK FEW: Yeah, you know, in some instances I think the toe injury might have helped Ty Lawson. I mean, he's playing at a great pace right now.   
 He's not forcing anything. He got in the lane a couple times where he was closely guarded and we shut down option one, option two, option three, and he was under control and found option four wide open out there on the back side of our defense.   
 You know, when they're -- when he's distributing like that, I mean, he had nine assists, one turnover. He shot the heck out of it from three. And they took great care of the ball.   
 We had a very poor deflection half. We charted our deflections. We had less than five at the half, which was our lowest total of the year, and we were able to get 20 in the second half, which is where we usually are.   
 Again, most of that was just due to Carolina. They were pushing it, sharing it, and getting themselves great looks. But they knocked them down. It's one thing to get them, but it's another to knock them down.   
 So they were -- they definitely had their A game tonight.   
  
  Q. It's one thing when Hansbrough does what he's doing but when Danny Green steps up and shoots like he hasn't been the last couple of weeks, how much more difficult are they?   
 COACH MARK FEW: It's just -- and I've said all along, if all 16 of us, if we all play at the top of our game, North Carolina wins the national championship. I just feel like, when they're playing at their highest end, they're better than the rest of us.   
 And they played that way tonight. I mean, Danny Green was supposedly struggling tonight, and he's making threes. Bobby Frasor, we had the game to 11 and forced a time-out. I mean, he's shooting 20-something percent from three, and he comes in and bangs two threes off down screens -- double screens up at the top of the key to get it back to 17.   
 And Larry Drew even hit a three. I mean, they were -- when they're shooting it like that, you know, it makes it very difficult to help on Tyler or Deon or Ed Davis down there. It was impressive, impressive performance.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, coach.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT