HUAJIN SECURITIES WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
November 6, 2016
Ipek Soylu
Yifan Xu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
SOYLU-XU/Yang-You   
6-4, 3-6, 10-7   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese, please.   
 Q.  Soylu, can you please talk about your cooperation with Ms. Xu, and also how do you comment on your cooperation?  What did you think about your win today?  
IPEK SOYLU: Well, Yifan is a great player.  I got to know her here this week.  I think we did a great combination.  I was really good behind the back and she's really good from the volleys, so I think we match really good.   
She is also very experienced player.  So I think in tough moment that helped a lot, too.  We ended up playing together because of her partner didn't show up.  She had an injury.   
So I think we, both of us, use this week pretty good.  I'm really happy to be the champion.   
 Q.  Question for Ms. Xu.  We heard that you mentioned you will be focusing more on playing singles next year and less and less doubles; is that true?  
YIFAN XU: That is not actually what I said.  What I said is I will begin playing more singles, but I will also play a lot more doubles.  Both singles and doubles will be my focus.  My ranking for doubles are still pretty high, so I'm going to play doubles continuously.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  You played with Saisai pretty much all year.  Curious how you adapted to a new partner and how you felt the chemistry was?  Did you know each other before this tournament?  A little bit about that story.  
YIFAN XU: Yes, I've been playing with Saisai for the entire year.  This was a happy and fast year for both of us.  We also spend a lot of time both on and off court.  It is a pity that she cannot join the event because of her injury.   
However, I would like to thank my coach for finding me Soylu, a wonderful partner for this week.  I didn't really know her before this week, and I myself don't really follow players that closely, so not really.   
But it was a great week for us.  We worked together a lot and it's a wonderful end for us.   
 Q.  To both of you, how do you feel the communication was between you through the week?  Comment about your chemistry on the court.  
IPEK SOYLU: I think all week was good on and off the court.  I really enjoyed every minute of it.  I think it helped our game to show up better as a team.   
YIFAN XU: We actually didn't get to have a lot of practicing time on court.  But the thing is that we are both professional players.  Once we train together, we know what our partner is like and what their strong suits and shortcomings are, per se.   
We are both quite kind of slow, and also she is easy person to get with.  So pretty happy to be working with her.   
 Q.  Would you imagine playing together at any point in 2017?  
IPEK SOYLU: Well, I think I as we talk beginning of the year, it was for this week.  Yifan already has a partner.  Maybe you can answer that question.   
I'm focusing more on singles.  I usually find a partner in the tournaments, whoever is on the tournament.  Yeah.   
YIFAN XU: The joking answer is that we don't have to plan.  That's not our style.  However, the official answer is that definitely if the opportunity presents itself we will definitely do it again.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT