CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 21, 2019
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Almost a flawless round of golf for So Yeon. You only missed one fairway, a couple greens. Your performance here over the years, pretty impressive. Couple runner-ups, tied for third last year. What is it about this course that suits your eye?
SO YEON RYU: Well, I love this golf course because it's so much fun to play from the fairway to the green. Like this green is quite interesting green. And then even though you're on the green, could be really tough to putt it; sometimes chipping is better than putting.
It to me, like this golf course require a lot of different shape of shots, so that's what I really enjoy the most of the game. I guess that is kind of suit for my game for this golf course.
Q. All of our experts on the broadcast have been talking about how firm and fast it's playing right now. Two-time major winner. Now we've seen the purse double. Does it feel more like a major championship right? If so, how much do you like that?
SO YEON RYU: Well, it's definitely changed the atmosphere for sure because last few years I know the purse was bigger than any other regular event, but still the million check was only for, I don't know, probably top 10 to 12 players.
But this is for everyone and everybody is so pumped about it. Then, yeah, finish top 6 and finish the tour championship just made you feel great already, so I'm really glad to have something special on our schedule.
Q. This is an incredible golf course for you. You have a successful history here. What was today like for you and why does this course lend so well to your game?
SO YEON RYU? Yeah, I guess I miss one fairway and then just miss only couple greens. And then I guess I only miss probably like one six-feet par putt on 3; that's how I made a bogey.
Other than that, I think I putted pretty much well. I always have a good feeling about this golf course, because like you mention about it, like I been play quite well at this golf course.
I really enjoy this golf course because this golf course require a lot of different shape of shot, and that's the part of the game I really enjoy too.
So hopefully at this time this golf course going to cooperate little better than last few years and then I can be the winner.
Q. The new change this year with the $1.5 million winner's check, did you approach this tournament any differently than maybe in years past, or is there maybe an extra pressure out there?
SO YEON RYU: I want to say more excited, you know. Like it used to be only for like top 10 to 12 players who was excited about the million dollar check, but at this time just everybody have same opportunity, so for sure everybody is so excited about to play last tournament of the year.
At the same time, they're so excited about all the new changes.
Q. A two-time major winner yourself. What would it mean to win this year with all the new changes?
SO YEON RYU: Well, to be honest, this year is one of the worst season I've ever had, so if I can win this tournament it's going to be awesome to finish the season; and then I'm not going to complain about this season.
I think just overall I feel like I just learn a lot about it. Not just about the golf, about myself as well. I want to do my best to finish the season strong as a golf and as a person as well.
Q. So Yeon, what have been the challenges this year?
SO YEON RYU: I guess beginning of this year I was not really happy with my ball striking, and then I just keep looking at my golf swing and then my coach keep saying, So Yeon, it's not really a problem. It's just a matter of tempo.
And then I should have listened better, but I just tried to find a problem, so just keep digging the problem even though I didn't really have it. And then that one became a problem and I just couldn't figure it out what it was.
Then I went to see him last week in Dallas and then I just talk about a lot about it with him, and then we just figured out one thing. I told him I just want stick to one thing. I don't want to think about any other thing. It doesn't matter it's wrong or not. I just want to stick to one thing and let's do it.
I guess that just made me relief a lot, and then I think that's really help me out to play better today.
Q. What was the one thing?
SO YEON RYU: It's about the golf swing, but I guess just about my mid-section of the downswing has been changed a little bit, so I'm just going to focus on like mid-side of the downswing to having a right face angle to hitting well.
Q. You've gone through highs and lows through your career. Do you handle them better now? How are you doing with this?
SO YEON RYU: I think it's still tough because my expectation level is quite high. To be honest, I been play quite consistent, I was very fortunate to play very consistent, so that one just made me expecting good result all the time.
Then when I'm not really playing well I was really harsh on myself. That's one of the thing I learn. No matter I'm being good golfer or not, I'm So Yeon Ryu. It's not going to change my life.
Well, it will change my life if I'm playing great and if I win the major kind of stuff. What I'm trying to say is just no matter of how good I am as a golfer, I'm still going to be daughter of my parents. I'm still going to be So Yeon Ryu, so I just try to see the positive side and really try to live my life instead of think about the golf is my everything.
Q. This is the last event of the year, and everybody is usually pretty exhausted by the time they get here. You're the opposite. You show up here as fresh as if it was the first week of the year, and always seem to play well. How do you do that?
SO YEON RYU: I don't know. You know, I'm always try to think it's same just for one round of golf. Like for example, like if I start with a bogey with my round, lot of people think, oh, my God, I start my day with a bogey. Doesn't really matter of it's bogey on the 1st, 5th, 10th, it's still same.
So I'm always having this mindset. No matter like first tournament of the year or last tournament of the year, I'm always do my best and do my thing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT