CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 17, 2018
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








(In progress.)
SO YEON RYU: ... getting better and better, and putting stroke is really great as well, but I hope I was able to make more birdie putt like about 10-foot, 12-foot range.
But I think, well, if I can make like 10-foot to 12-foot range of putting it's really great, but if it's not dropping I cannot really complain, because although I couldn't make those one, I made a lot of like three foot to six foot, eight foot to par putt.
So I'm looking forward to the even lower score tomorrow.
Q. Progressively moving up the board even though you've been consistent in your scores throughout the week.  You're tied for third right now.
SO YEON RYU: I guess because it's windy out there.  Sort of wind swelling and sometime wind go away is and then is blowing again.  Really tough to working out, you know, what's the wind direction exactly.
And then I think pin position was tough today, so that's one the reason why I was able to move up a bit more.
Q. One of the things when you have a good stroke you always hit putts the right speed.  You just hit 100-footer to two feet.  What had you been working on to get speed control so good right now?
SO YEON RYU: I think just more about the trust myself.  I think like my type of person just sort of like require a lot of practice to trust myself.  I practice a lot of the putting last week.
And then I just feel like because I spend a lot of hours practice putting so I'm going to be great.
Right now I have a total trust on me.  Even though if I miss it, I just really feel like it's not my fault.  Just misread the line or green was something wrong.  (Laughter.)
Q. On moving day here in Naples.  Nice round today.  How would you describe the round?
SO YEON RYU: Well, it was definitely tough out there.  A lot of tough pin position and then wind definitely make us more confused to select the club.
But I think putting was really working well today about like 3-foot to 8-foot range.  So that one gave me a lot of confidence to having -- like playing for aggressively.
And then I actually president of CME just invited me to dinner last night, and then he introduce me to really good wine.  That wine just really make me relax and just enjoy a little bit more.
I guess he really help me out to enjoy more out there.
Q. Kind of answers my next question of what it is you play so well here having finished runner-up two years ago.  Is there something else you really like about this course?
SO YEON RYU: Well, to be honest, when I just -- like first few years when I played this tournament I thought it was just okay golf course.  And then playing more and more and more, and then I actually just told my caddie, You know what?  I started to kind of like this golf course.
If you have a really good ball striking you can make a lot of birdies.  If you mishit it's just punishing you for sure.  Especially the first four holes I think is really challenging holes.  If you got to have a really good run all the way through No.4 I think you have more chance to make a birdie.
I really enjoy this golf course right now.
Q. You're just a few back heading into the final round.  How are you feeling about the position you're in and what you need to do to have a chance on Sunday?
SO YEON RYU: Well, I guess few of the girl hit a really low score on Thursday, so I still trust myself that I could do that as well.  Hopefully I can pulling out my game tomorrow, and then if I able to shot some of the low score, I think I still have a chance to win this tournament.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT