TOTO JAPAN CLASSIC
November 2, 2018
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What a lovely opening round, it's a 54-hole tournament, so you have to start fast?
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, for sure.  I think for a three-round tournament, you're better to make sure you have a really, really good starting day.  I guess I opened with a really good round, so I'm really happy that hopefully I can have this decent round two more days to go.
Q. We would love to see that.  Ideal playing conditions.  It's quite nice.
SO YEON RYU: The weather was just perfect.  I think this morning was chilly but by the time it was my tee time, the weather started to get really, really warm.  For the last three days, I think we had a lot of strong wind and gusts was coming, but today was just perfect.  I could not ask any better weather.
Q. Now, you enjoy coming to Japan, because only a month ago, you won one of their majors, the Japanese Open.  How good was that playing in front of these crowds?
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, that makes me more comfortable to play in Japan.  I've said this a million times, but the Japanese fans are one of the best fans to play golf in front of them.  I've always enjoyed playing golf in Japan.
Q. Do you know Japanese?
SO YEON RYU: I know very basic words because I grew up with a lot -- like when I played junior golf, I played with like Mika Miyazato and a lot of Japanese players who helped me with a few things, so hopefully I only know the good ones.
Q. A very good three-ball, to play with Nasa Hataoka and last week's winner, Nelly Korda.  A great group to watch, you three,
SO YEON RYU: For sure, it's always fun to play with Nelly and Nasa.  I feel a little old, that was the only thing I can complain, because Nasa is really a superstar in Japan.  We had a lot of Japanese fans out there and then Nelly just run last week it.  It was a really, really great atmosphere to play with them.
Q. How was your play today you?  You hit it very well today.  What do you think about that?
SO YEON RYU: I think my short game was really great today.  I think I putted really well, and then I missed one tee shot at the 16th.  That bunker shot wasn't a really easy bunker shot, so I did a really good bunker shot.  A bogey-free round is always a good round to have.  I was struggling with my putting the last two weeks in Taiwan and Shanghai, but I'm so glad my putting worked well.
Q. How come you kept playing very well today?
SO YEON RYU: I think I just learned a lot through the last two weeks, and then as soon as I just came to Japan, I knew what kind of practice I needed to have to play really well.  Then I guess those practice were really worth it, and then it worked really well today.
So I actually also thought, you know, I might need to practice a little bit more things to prepare for the weekend, so I'm going to do it after this interview and hopefully my hard work is going to pay off at the end on Sunday.
Q. What do you need to fix in your golf after this for the weekend?
SO YEON RYU: Well, I think when I missed a shot, my swing tempo was a little too quick.  I think I was too rushed to hit the ball, so I'm going to make sure of a really good tempo.  Well, even though my putting worked really well, I had a few moments I wasn't really happy with the starting line, so I just want to make sure my starting line is going to be straight for the weekend.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT