SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 25, 2018
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So how was your round out there today?  
SO YEON RYU: It wasn't a really great start.  I started with a bogey and I missed quite a lot of birdie chances the front nine.  But the birdie I made on 9 really helped me out to get more focused.   
On the back nine, I still missed a few but I still made three birdies, so I'm happy with it and then hopefully the putting is going to work better tomorrow.   
 Q.  Bogeyed the first hole, still asleep, trying to wake up?  
SO YEON RYU: Well, like to be honest, this golf course is not really easy to playing well, I guess, because the greens are quite tight.  The fairway, the tee shot is not really easy, as well, and then the greens, some of the holes a little too slopey.  Then because of that, we're just playing with very slow pace, the green speed.   
So I thought, maybe it's going to be tough for everybody, so it's not just me.  Then first hole bogey means not every hole bogey, so I just tried to be really positive.   
 Q.  So you're just kind of taking it day by day and learning the course and how it reacts?  
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, yeah.  I think it's quite a big difference between last week's green speed and this week's green speed.  I'm still sort of like adjusting myself.  Then I think it's going to be getting better and better.   
 Q.  You played really well in this tournament in the past.  Why do you think that is?  
SO YEON RYU: I actually really like the other golf courses before we changed venue and then hopefully after this tournament, I'm going to like this golf course, as well.   
 Q.  Have you set any goals for yourself for the rest of the year?  
SO YEON RYU: I've won in Japan just a few weeks ago, but I haven't got my second win for the season.  So I'm still looking forward to have my second title for the season 2018.   
 Q.  How much of a confidence boost is that win in Japan?  
SO YEON RYU: Well, actually that one definitely helped me out a lot to stay very confident to play the UL International Crown.  I think that one definitely made me play really well at the International Crown, as well, but to be honest I was exhausted after the International Crown.  I felt like I just spent every energy pretty much what I have, so I'm really grinding now.   
 Q.  You took that week to refresh and relax?  
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, that's why I took that week off.  I knew I'm going to be exhausted after the International Crown, but it's actually quite tougher to get back to totally refreshed.  Maybe I spent quite a lot of energy.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT