THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 14, 2018
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Today versus yesterday feel any different to you?  
SO YEON RYU: Well, actually tee shot was not really good as yesterday today.  So I had some really great up and down.  Hopefully my tee shot going to be better for next two days.   
I'm actually feel confidence with the iron shot and everything, so I'm looking forward to play next two days.   
 Q.  And when you went straight to the range afterwards, is that what you worked on, your drive?  
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, yeah.  First of all, I wasn't thrilled -- I wasn't really happy with my tee shot, as I said.  I thought it could be really great to have -- to make sure like distance control between like 80 yards to 110 yards.  Seems like we get to have chance to hit the pitch shot quite a lot.   
I just wanted to make sure I can get more opportunity to make the birdie.   
 Q.  You put yourself in the again to win RAMA this year.  How good has your game felt?  Have you been able to just step up in the major stage?  
SO YEON RYU: Well, you know, nobody can so sure about the result, but what I can do is just prepare as hard as I can.  I'm pretty sure like last week all the preparation was really great.  I work on my swing with my coach and putting a lot with my coach.   
So one thing I can say is for sure I prepared pretty well.  Hopefully it'll pay off for next two weeks.   
 Q.  Before the week you had talked about really wanting to get back into that process.  Do you feel like you've been able to do that here this week?  
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, I think so.  I been really enjoy the practice.  I think that's really matter, yeah.  I think the most tortuous moment for us professional golfer is like you know you have to practice and that's why you practice, instead of like you really enjoy the practice.   
Like I know, you know, it's really hard to enjoy the practice, but I think just my personality is I really enjoy to see improving all the time.  I think right now I'm in that zone.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT