RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 5, 2018
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Similar to yesterday but you must be delighted with the last 16 holes of your round today?
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, that was a crazy round of golf.  Hopefully it's not going to be a pattern for the future.  Yeah, I had a triple-bogey at No. 3 and bogey again, and actually the turning point was really the par 3, No. 5, because I had chip-in birdie and that one made me just go, okay, even though I'm 3-over to here, I can do something like yesterday.  And also my caddie helped me out quite a lot to make me really comfortable to make a lot of birdies.
Yeah, after what happened, I think I fought really, really well, and then I'm happy to finish top three in this tournament.
Q. How aware are you as a player of what's happening around the course and the holes behind you?  Do you look at score boards?
SO YEON RYU: Well, it's really tough not seeing it this week because you know, we have so many giant leaderboard like everywhere.  Yeah, of course I saw it.  I was surprised even after I made a triple-bogey and bogey, I was still on the leaderboard.  I think that was kind of gave me extra motivation that even after I hit this horrible shot, I'm still on the leaderboard, I can still do something better.
Q. At one point you got extremely close to the leaders.  What was going through your mind then?  Did you think there was a chance you could still win?
SO YEON RYU: I didn't really think about the big picture.  I only thought about my game, my hole, my shots, and I couldn't predict anything and I don't want to predict anything.
Q. Can you sum up the week as a whole?
SO YEON RYU: Well, you know, every hole is really, really impressive and every hole is really a great design.  Of course, I was a little struggle with a few of the holes.
Q. Talk us through today.  That was a tough start but then you really dug it out and it was an impressive charge toward the end.  How do you look back on your final round?
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, that was definitely a crazy round.  You know, what happened to No. 3 was extremely unfortunate.  That one just causing me triple-bogey at the hole -- but, well, after I made a bogey at 4, my caddie came up to me, and, like, remember what you did yesterday, and that one definitely helped me out to get back to track.
You know, chip-in birdie at the fifth was definitely a really big help to make me out to like very motivated to keep playing well and keep making a birdie.  I think I fought really, really well on the golf course.  Even though the result was not the one I expected, I'm still satisfied with how I played.
Q. How do you look back on this week?  Is it the tough moments or the way you fought back?  Pretty impressive finish in the end?
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, you know, I'm extremely proud of myself after what happened at the first few holes.  But this golf course is really, really well designed.  None of the hole is really easy hole, even though it's a reachable par 5, it's something -- trap is risky areas there.  So it was a really, really tough week to play and it was a really pleasure to play a links golf course this week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT