RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 3, 2018
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You've had back to back rounds of 69 so how pleased are you with your progress through two rounds?  
SO YEON RYU: Yeah.  Of course, like playing 69, 69 twice, I would never complain.  To be honest, I didn't really have a good start.  I made a bogey at second.  But I made like three birdies in a row, 9, 3, 11.  That one definitely make me more confidence to playing.  And well, I was kind of worried about the coming into like playing 17, 18, because they're always playing really tough, but I was like, okay, I made two bogeys yesterday, but I'm not going to do it today.  I'm happy to finish with a par, par and then finish 69.   
 Q.  You came so close to what would have been your third major championship at the last major, the KPMG Women's PGA, just losing out in that playoff to Sung Hyun Park.  What did you take away from that?  
SO YEON RYU: Well, I said that right after the finished playoff first hole, that even though I didn't win the tournament, I really felt like that was one of my best performance week out of my professional career.  So of course, I was disappointed, but at the same time I was very proud of myself to see how I handled all the situation, how I played, you know, all 72 holes.  So that was a bit of disappointment, but that one also make me more confident to heading into another major tournament.   
 Q.  And just lastly, this is your seventh start in the women's British Open.  You've never missed a cut.  You've had three Top 10 finishes here.  What is it about this major that you enjoy so much?  
SO YEON RYU: My first women's British Open was 2012 Royal Liverpool and then the weather was really like horrible.  It was horrible weather to play with.  But since I played the golf course, I just love to come here and to play links golf.  This is home of golf.  I always really appreciate when I get a chance to play the golf at the home of golf in front of all the English fans and all the fans.  And I think that's just like enjoy mindset, just make me feel quite great at this golf tournament.   
 Q.  Well, you're playing quite great as well.  Good luck tomorrow?  
SO YEON RYU: Thank you.   
 Q.  Does it feel any different than the other majors in what you were saying?  
SO YEON RYU: Well, I think this tournament is really well prepared for the spectators, and you guys have like kids' showing.  They have really big screen for all the spectators, and the hospitality is really nice for us.  And even though the majority of golf course in England have a really, really small clubhouse and really small locker room, and you guys always build the locker room for us, the gym for us.  So I really appreciate to come here to play this tournament.  I always feel like this is something special.   
 Q.  Is it your favorite major?  
SO YEON RYU: For sure, yeah.  Since I played this tournament, I mean the first time I played this tournament, this is always my goal to win the tournament.   
 Q.  I mean I won't tell Kevin Hopkins that.  
SO YEON RYU: Well --   
 Q.  He's your favorite tournament director, but this is your favorite tournament.  
SO YEON RYU: Well, yes.  Yes.  But you know, it's a bit different.  I know the ANA is kind of like a Masters for us, but this is, once again, home of golf.  Home of golf always bring something special for us.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT