ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
July 27, 2018
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 66 out there today.  Just what the doctor ordered, I guess, and you're right in contention at this tournament.  What are your thoughts?
SO YEON RYU: The first hole I started playing very early morning, and then back then it was really calm.  So that definitely helped me to play more aggressive playing.  And I think my putting was better than yesterday.  I was able to make some birdies on the front nine, and I missed quite a lot of birdie chances on the back nine, but I'm still happy with making six birdies with only one bogey.
Q. The course keeps your brain ticking, doesn't it, as well as the wind.  The wind changed direction three times yesterday.  I wasn't out there today, so I don't know, but I guess it was something similar today, this morning?
SO YEON RYU: Well, compared to yesterday, the back nine, the wind direction was totally opposite, so it was really hard to guess, because like, for example, No. 18, even though I landed short of the green it was still past the green and it hit the Grandstand but today it was right-to-left wind and then I was able to hit the green and then spin it right away.  So it was just those things.  Sometimes just hitting different wind direction makes it hard to make a decision, but that's what it is.  That's the beauty about the links course.
Q. There was a little bit of rain last night.  Depends on where you were.  There was a lot of rain where I was.  Does that make any difference how the course was playing?  Was it receptive?
SO YEON RYU: I think compared to yesterday the ground was a little softer, but I didn't know it was rain.  But it wasn't really a dramatic difference.
Q. Very well played.
SO YEON RYU: Thank you.
Q. Cam is still here.  Did he come from the Open to come back with you?  What was it like having him out there with you?
SO YEON RYU: Definitely having him on the golf course, especially like this type of golf course, learning a lot of like imagination.  Like sometimes I only could think the flop shot kind of stuff and he gave me the direction.  You could use this bounce or you could putt.  So it was really helpful to have him those two days to prepare for this tournament.
Q. Is that something you had planned like in advance or was it kind of like, oh, since I'm here?
SO YEON RYU: Oh, yeah.  I knew he was going to come even like six months ago he already planned to go to the Open and then coming here to help us out to prepare for the links-style golf course.
Q. Anything in particular you guys worked on?
SO YEON RYU: Well, after KPMG I didn't really practice that much, so I just needed to recheck everything.  And then he was really happy with my golf swing.  He just fixed my stroke a little bit and my back stroke was a little coming too much inside.  So I just made sure everything was under control.  And I guess it worked out there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT