U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 2, 2019
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Started out with a double and made a comeback.  Your history as a past champion, has that helped you when you started out with a double and said, I can still do this?
SO YEON RYU: Yes, for sure.  I know it's a shame I made a double at the 2nd yesterday as well, and today I made a double at the 1st hole, and then I finished even, even starting with the double bogey.  Then when I made a double bogey, I was like I had the same start yesterday, but I fought back.  So I thought I was going to be able to do it.
Plus, having the Major trophy, especially the U.S. Women's Open trophy under my belt, makes things easier because it definitely gave me a lot confidence, and I kept talking to myself, you know, if I've done it once, I can do it for the future again.
Q. When you made the two birdies on the back side, did you feel like there were a couple more to take you closer?
SO YEON RYU: Actually, my putting was quite great today.  I would say my iron shot was quite great as well.  I was sort of hoping for like I was going to hop on the birdie train.
But first of all, I was quite disappointed.  Could have made the eagle at the 15.  I thought I made it, but I couldn't make it.  Most likely, I think I'm going to finish in the top five, and it's going to be my first top five finish this season.  So this tournament gives me a lot of confidence.
Q. Lee6 is in the lead right now.  How close are you with her?
SO YEON RYU: Well, I never really grew up with her, but Jeongeun and I have the same management company.  That's how I started to hang out with her.  She's such a sweet lady.  She's so ready to learn everything about LPGA.
Actually, a lot of people think, if you played the other tour before, you're not really a rookie.  I think that's not true.  I've done it before.  I know I had experience to play other tour before I joined this Tour, but this Tour is a whole lot different experience.  You better speak English.  You better learn so many different cultures.
So looking at her as a rookie to play this tournament so well, I'm really proud of her as a fellow competitor and same country girl as well.  I'm hoping she's going to finish strong.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT