KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 2018
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You made a lot of big putts today, but watching you on 16, how big was that par putt?  
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, well, I was like (indiscernible) for more than halfway through, and then after I made a few birdies, then I was able to lead the tournament, and then I knew the 16th was a really, really important par putt.  Then the chip shot was tougher than I expected, so I was quite nervous, but I'm glad I made a par.  I was a little disappointed when I missed that birdie putt at 17 after that fantastic tee shot, but I was able to make a birdie at the last.   
 Q.  You told us yesterday how much confidence you get overall when your putter is going well.  It looks like so far that putter is treating you right.  How much confidence do you have going into this final round?  
SO YEON RYU: I think the 11th par-5 was really, really big momentum.  My third shot was quite a tough bunker shot, so I had to go a little sideways, and then I made a 15-foot birdie putt after that.  I felt more comfortable with putting.  And then I was able to make a birdie putting after all.  Right now I feel pretty confident on the putting green, and then I think when the tournament is all about confidence, then that's the attitude I really want to have for tomorrow, a free mind but confidence.   
 Q.  You celebrated your birthday yesterday, but you're still a very young player.  I know you don't like to get too far ahead, but this is a special tournament for you.  How much would it mean to you to put your name on this trophy?  
SO YEON RYU: Well, I never really dreamed about to become a Grand Slam winner, but after I won the ANA Inspiration, finally I was able to dream about the Grand Slam, and then for the Grand Slam I have to win this tournament, and right now I'm in a really good position, and I don't want it to slip away my opportunity.  I want to finish strong, but as I said, just better not to expect anything.  All I can do is just focus on what I have and just have fun with it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT