HUGEL-JTBC LA OPEN
April 22, 2018
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How was your week?
SO YEON RYU: Compared to last few weeks, last few months, was much better.
As I said to him, like I was really struggle with my game, and think it was just about because of result.  To be honest, I been playing really consistent.  Then when you cannot really playing consistent you kind of starting to freak out like what's going on.
So even though I didn't really have much problem, I just sort of think myself I have something problem with the swing, something problem with the stroke.
So I just started to like thinking really, really simple.  So I just called to my coach before I started the tournament and I just talked to him like, You know what?  I'm just going to forget about the technique.  I'm just going to feel what I feel and just going to trust myself.  I am just going to think about the tempo and forget everything about technique.
He was like, Yeah.  I saw your swing.  Your swing is really great.  All you need to do is just trust yourself.  That's what I did.  I think that was the key I was able to play well this week.
Q. So you tried not to psych yourself out too much?
SO YEON RYU: Yeah.  I think just the reason why I couldn't really trust myself was I think last year start, beginning of last year I played really, really great.  Like finish top 10 all the time.
I think it's just my expectation level was way too high.  Then I was to harsh on me.  When you have one miss shot or one bad putt you start to talk myself as like, Why did you miss it?  Why couldn't you playing well?  You know, that kind of stuff.
Could be really boring to say, but all I really need to do is enjoying myself, because I achieved a lot of great thing last year.  I just keep comparing that to this year.  I should have stop that.
Q. Right.  I would like to ask an Inbee question.  It wasn't very long ago that we wondered if she was going to quit playing; today she's going to go back to No. 1 in the world.  Just how good is that?
SO YEON RYU: I think -- to be honest, I think she's a genius.  About golf she's genius.  And another thing, she never really think too much.  I think definitely when she stop playing she have to think about her injury and she's married, and maybe she have to think about the future.  You know, she have so many thing.
Maybe she couldn't achieve anymore thing and then like you kind of lost the motivation.  As a friend I can tell, but I don't know what's really going on her inside.
But she's really simple.  Like when you play, she is just really focus.  When she having a rest, she's not even think about the golf at all.  Like when she having a rest, she just love to playing with her dog, love to hang out with the friends if Korea.
Like when she come back to tour she just fully focused on golf, and when she's off the golf course she's not even think about the golf at all.  I think that's why she's so good at it.
Q. She always been that way since you've known her?
SO YEON RYU: Extremely like -- I still cannot believe why -- I mean, I still cannot really working on why she's so good at it.
To be honest, I told her, You never really practice like me, you never really work out, you never really think about the nutrition so much.  Why you're so good at it?
She was like, I don't know.  I'm just doing what I am doing.  I think that's the key.  I think these days, even like for me, after having putting practice for like an hour, I should feel like, Okay, I've done what I have to do.
When you're seeing other players practice putting like three hours, four hours, you're like, Oh, my God.  I have to do more.
But she's nothing like that.  She just think about herself.  She just stick to what she normally do and she never really with doubt to what she's doing.
I think that's why she's good at it.
Q. One last thing.  Do you think she's underrated?
SO YEON RYU: What does that mean, underrated?
Q. Not as appreciated as much.  Not in Korea, but the whole sports landscape, golf landscape?
SO YEON RYU: Like Inbee's perspective?
Q. No, I mean about Inbee.  Do you think people don't appreciate how hard it is to do what she's done, coming back after a six-month layoff?
SO YEON RYU: Maybe she's so good at the people think, Of course she's so has to good at it.  I think I agree with you.  People never really know how tough to get back on track after having like six-month, seven-month break.
I think she was always good at it for a while, and people just automatically think, Of course she's good at it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT