HUGEL-JTBC LA OPEN
April 20, 2018
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Seven birdies today to climb up the leaderboard on Friday in the second round.  What was the key to your round today?
SO YEON RYU: I think difference between yesterday and today was definitely putting.  I think especially we're on poa annua greens this week, so when you're playing in the morning, you actually can have a purer roll in the greens, so I think I was able to trust it more.  And then the other thing was like, to be honest, I did not really sympathize with my game so far, so when you're struggling you obviously kind of start to think about technique more instead of start to feel about your game, so I just fought -- I was like, okay, just get rid of technique thinking and let's just focus on what I feel, then just visualize more, and I think that really helped me to play well today.
Q. You've been getting more comfortable with the course now that you've played here a couple of times with practice and yesterday?
SO YEON RYU: Oh, yeah, for sure, but I think this course -- I mean, I know pretty much every week we need a lot of help from the caddies, but especially this week, we needed a lot of caddies' help.  You need to discuss a lot with the caddie how you're going to play, how you're going to hit to the pin.  Also you have a lot of bunkers around there, so you really have to think about what kind of tee shot you're going to hit.  So I feel I'm getting more comfortable discussing about the golf course with my caddie, then I feel like I know the golf course better now.
Q. How have you enjoyed your time in LA this week and also seeing a lot of fans out here, close to Korea town, what's it like for you?
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, to be honest, these days, wherever we go, we can see a lot of Korean restaurants, but this week we have more options.  If you want to look for seafood or meat, whatever, it's going to be there.  I'm very excited, as well.  Also not just about the Korean food and LA, so many great restaurants around here, so it's been a really enjoyable week.
Q. Have you gotten to do anything that you wanted to do when you come to LA in terms of either shopping or something touristy or a trendy restaurant?
SO YEON RYU: Well, I actually have my sister living here, so I stayed with my sister until Wednesday, and then I just moved here -- I just started to stay here on Wednesday.  Actually on Monday a bunch of Korean players went to one of the Italian restaurants, one of the really famous ones, where we really enjoyed the wine and food.  It was really nice.
Q. Which one was it?
SO YEON RYU: Italian restaurant, called I think Marino's restaurant.
Q. Do you remember what area of town it was?
SO YEON RYU: It was just at the large part.  It was really nice.
Q. Your sister lives in what area?
SO YEON RYU: She lives in Torrance.
Q. You didn't want to deal with that commute?
SO YEON RYU: No, it's like 45 minutes.  I just don't want to deal like with the traffic.
Q. I think you had back-to-back birdies early, right?
SO YEON RYU: First and second, yes.
Q. What does that do for your round when you kind of string a couple of those together?
SO YEON RYU: I think my thing is when you're really focused, you don't even know what you had last hole, so I didn't even feel like I made two in a row birdie.  I didn't really pump about it.  But if I look back, I think I was really focused on all the shots and I was really focused on all the present, and that one really helped me to play well today.
Q. Your thoughts on what it's going to take this weekend to win this tournament?
SO YEON RYU: It's very hard to predict a score because you really have to defend the pin position.  It could be really high, could be really low.  But only thing I can say is I want to be the one holding the trophy, so I want to do my best to play really well the next two days, and then I really want to enjoy my game with a lot of Korean friends and all the fans out here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT