CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 19, 2017
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Played pretty well this week and you played really well all year.  Tell me how it's felt, the season as a whole.  
SO YEON RYU: First of all about this week, well, on Tuesday I was like seriously worried about am I able to play or not, but I finished 72 holes, which is I happy.   
But, you know, amazingly, I haven't really practiced my long game but I hit the ball really well this week but I couldn't really putt well.   
Putting practice was all I did for last week.  It's just weird.  But no matter what's going to happen, because I'm not sure what's going to happen right now, I really proud of myself.   
I think if I look back the whole year, I think I've like overdone it, like what I supposed to have the goal.  My goal was actually just win the tournament, win the tournament.  Even if I'm going to win one tournament I'm going to be so happy.   
I won twice; I became No. 1; I felt like I achieved a lot of things.  I really thankful about this season and I really feel like I grown up a lot through this season, so I'm ready to have a rest.   
 Q.  Even if you don't end up winning Player of the Year, how does it feel to even be that close?  You were in the lead heading into this.  
SO YEON RYU: This was my first time in contention to competing about the Player of the Year, so which is amazing feel.   
I haven't really in contention for the last five years, but this year finally I did.  So no matter what, you know, I'm really happy.   
Well, to be honest, if I'm going to have it it's even better.  If I'm going to cannot have it, it's could be little disappointed.   
But I think thinking about the disappointed part, I feel like I'm not really respect what I've done for this 24 season.   
So I really want to see the bright side instead of dark side.  I cannot even call that one as dark side.   
And then what I can do is just planning about the next year and then hopefully I can do even better job for next year.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT