CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 16, 2017
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
SO YEON RYU: (Recording in progress.)  I think compared to Japan I play better.  Also like compared to Tuesday it's much, much better.  I really feel grateful to finishing 18 today.   
Like, well, actually, my long game was not that bad today.   
 Q.  It was quite good.  
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, it was quite great.  It was more about the putting.  This is funny game, because I haven't really practiced my long game.  That I've like focused on my putting practice a lot that I couldn't really putt well today.   
Yeah, I felt really great to play 18 today, and hopefully it's going to be better and better.  I can feel it's a little better than last few weeks.  So, yep, I think it's positive.   
 Q.  It looked like the second shot on 7 is where you tweaked it, the little short wedge.  
SO YEON RYU: Yeah.  The ground was bit firm.  I think the most I struggle with is like really like hard ground and like dry (indiscernible) and bunker shot I would say.   
But I really can feel like just my back of the shoulder start to get really tight, and that affect the front as well.   
After I seeing the physio after 9 I was feel much better.  I think that really like matter of how fatigue my muscle is.  Once again, all I can do is rest.   
 Q.  What did he do in there?  Massage it or...  
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, just release the muscle at eh backside, and then I taped it to a bit more to support my back of the shoulder.  Yeah, feel a bit better.   
 Q.  Was there anything mechanical in your putting stroke that you found?  The last one looked great.  
SO YEON RYU: Well, actually I think my ball is turning quite often to the right, so that's what I been working on.   
Looks like it didn't really working, I mean, working well at the golf course today, but hopefully it's going to be the better for next three days.   
 Q.  Have you been this long recently?  You hit that 3-wood on 7 like 265.  
SO YEON RYU: That's another funny thing, because I feel like I cannot really hit it long.  But I don't think my distance -- I mean, I don't think I hit it any shorter.   
Of course when I miss-hit ball goes not really long, but still having about same distance.   
 Q.  I would imagine if this wasn't such an important week you would not be playing.  What's your attitude?  Gut it out?  
SO YEON RYU: Well, I cannot project the result after this week, but at least I really want to do my best.  Like that's what I did for this whole season; I just don't want to give up.   
I knew my condition wasn't really great on Tuesday, but I really wanted to do my best and I really wanted to see my whole team is kind of working on to make my shoulder better.   
No matter what, if I'm going to do my best, it's no regret.  That's the rule.  If you do your best, no regret.  You can enjoy your off-season better than just pulling out of the tournament.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT