SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 22, 2017
So Yeon Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A ten-shot difference and you leaped up the leaderboard?  
SO YEON RYU: The biggest difference is yesterday I couldn't make any putts, and today I just pretty much made everything just without the last hole.  The first hole, weather's been improved so much, so maybe that's how I improved my scores.   
 Q.  Golf can be such a fickle game, one day to the next, you can see an improvement of ten shots.  Is it all down to the putting with you?  
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, that's why we love this game.  After yesterday, I just tried to find out what the problem is, and I found out the problem is I think to myself, I have a problem.   
Before I started round, I told myself, just commit to it and when I made a decision, let's just trust it and let's roll it.  That's what I did today and it worked out.   
 Q.  So trusting the putts, is that the key for you, when you're on a roll and playing your very best, is it anything technical or is it mainly up here in your head?  
SO YEON RYU: I think whoever, if somebody is on the LPGA, it's pretty much the mental.  They have all good skill and they have a good swing and they have a good stroke.  So I think it's pretty much a mental game.   
 Q.  You're going to be playing next week, so this is huge confidence, a nice round of 65 today to take into the sauna that is Malaysia?  
SO YEON RYU: Yeah, for sure.  I struggled with my game since the British Open, and then I think since last week in Korea, I started to feel like I'm slowly getting better and better, and today I feel really great.   
Yeah, I cannot wait to play in Malaysia, and hopefully I can win the tournament.   
 Q.  A beautiful bogey-free 65 today, ten-stroke difference from yesterday.  What was the turnaround, other than maybe these bright, sunny skies?  
SO YEON RYU: I think the biggest difference was my putting.  Yesterday I just couldn't make any putts, and today I made pretty much everything without the last hole's birdie putt.  Today I had a huge improvement with my putting and that's how I played really well.   
 Q.  I ran into you after your round yesterday and you said you were going out to try and work on things.  What turned around specifically with your putting, do you think, from yesterday to today?  
SO YEON RYU: I think it was pretty much the mental thing.  Like first of all, I started to think about what is my problem, and then I found out my problem was thinking to myself, I have a problem.   
I just started to trust myself and I started to think about:  Okay, I have a really good stroke, I have a good rhythm and I have a tempo.  So let's commit to it and roll it.  That's what I did today, and it worked out really well.   
 Q.  Did you know throughout the round that you were playing well, or what's it like when you're out there in such a great round like that?  
SO YEON RYU: Well, when you start to play really well, you cannot really feel the toughness on the golf course.  So I thought for everyone's, it's just playing really easy today.  And then I haven't seen any leaderboards until 16, and then I saw my name at the top.  So I was like, whoa, I'm playing pretty well.   
Sometimes it's better not to know what's going on, so I think it was really helpful.   
 Q.  Do you think these fans had anything to do with it?  With this beautiful weather, we have such a great turnout today?  
SO YEON RYU: To be honest, I was so disappointed to see like rainy weather because I know all Taiwanese fans is really, really supportive and they are very, very nice, but I couldn't see much of them because of the rain.   
But today, the weather turns out really well, so a lot of spectators came out, especially Yani's group was in front of me and a lot of Taiwanese came out to support Yani.  It was really, really great to watch.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT