UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN HOCKEY MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 19, 2015
Mike Eaves
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Men's Hockey Head Coach, Mike Eaves is here and will take questions.
Q. The second game you got quite a performance out of your freshman goalie.  What was your take after seeing him play most of the two games?
COACH EAVES: It was one of the positives that came out of the weekend, and we spoke about it right after the game with the guys.  We lost the game, but there were several things that stood out, and that was one of them.  You know, that's the kind of growth that we're hoping to find with our young group as we get going, so because of that fact, you know, we go into this weekend knowing Friday night that young Matty is going to be our goaltender, and have a good practice, and carry that same kind of performance against Ferris State on Friday.
Q. Did you see improvement from Friday to Saturday out there, Mike?
COACH EAVES: No question.  In fact, it was our first game on a small sheet against a pretty talented team, and then we were better on Friday.  We got the early lead, and we were just playing at a faster pace.
People -- I think unless you've gone from a big sheet of ice to a small sheet of ice, you don't realize the lack of time and space that is created by that shift.  I suppose it would be like somebody sleeping on a queen and going to a single, you know, you roll over and you're out of bed.  It's hard to imagine what it's like.
We saw a lot better things in breaking down film yesterday we can take to the team, some good stuff!  We see the stuff we have been working on at practice and harping on, you're starting to see on a more regular basis when you look at film, and that's the kind of growth we want.
We don't have the final result yet, but there's good growth there, and we've got to keep pushing that and going in a good direction.
Q. Are you concerned that you were outshot so badly on Saturday, was it like, 44-18?
COACH EAVES: No, if you look at the second period, Dennis, the fact is we were in the penalty box a lot, which was another story within itself, but they shot a lot of pucks from the outside.  Scoring chances weren't that lopsided; there was just a lot of shots from the outside.
Q. Penalty kills be another positive, then?
COACH EAVES: Absolutely.  I thought our guys did a really good job.  You can see again what Luke is trying to have them do they're starting to do now, and it's kind of a backhanded thing but the blessing of having all those penalty kills is we got a chance to work on it live and in game situation, which is the best teacher so we did a lot of good things there, and we will be able to use that as we move forward as well.
Q. I think everybody figured there will be a few bumps in the road as you start out this season; it's just trying to smooth those out and get going a little bit, right?
COACH EAVES: Bumps?  I think it's just learning curve.  You know, with the expectations of these young people, again, the thing for us as coaches in looking at video is the fact that we're getting better.  You're seeing it more repetitively done in games, and our transition from one system play to another is getting quicker.
So, again, with the good goaltending, we're moving in the right direction.  And I'm glad we're going on the road again, because it's harder to win on the road, and it forces your focus to become greater and the things that you have to do.  You can play a simpler game.  So we're going into a rink that is really small, it's a box, and the reason that we wanted to the this is, first of all, Bob Daniels has come to us for several years.  He's a good man, we like the way their team plays.  It will be a tough building to go in into and win, but the thought process is, if we can learn to play in that environment, we can play in a lot of environments.
Q. Have you been to Big Rapids?
COACH EAVES: Driven by the sign that points to Big Rapids, so that's my experience.
THE MODERATOR: Anything else for Coach?  Thanks, Mike.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT