UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN HOCKEY MEDIA CONFERENCE
March 2, 2015
Mike Eaves
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


  THE MODERATOR:   Men's Hockey Head Coach Mike Eaves is here and he will take questions. 

Q.   Mike, wouldn't you say overall your team played pretty doesn't in Ann Arbor? 
COACH EAVES:   It's an interesting thought because of the fact that you try to keep things in perspective.   When you lose a couple games like that where you have a chance going into the third period and you come away empty there is a taste in your mouth that is not pleasant. 
At the same time, I think that Coach Berenson put it in perspective, I said I don't know what you have done since we last played you but your kids have much improved which is a back‑handed compliment and you take it for what it's worth but you still walk away and want more from your kids in terms of moving forward.   So obviously there is a sign of growth which is good, but you're not satisfied and you crave for more and want to get to that next level. 

Q.   If you talk to your players, as difficult as this season has been they have come together.   They seem to have each other's backs, pretty outspokenly, if that's such a word.   How is it with the coaching staff?   Have you guys come together? 
COACH EAVES:   You either go one of two ways, as the players have done.   We have had to rely on each other and I think, there for each other in terms of honest feedback, in terms of what we are trying to do in certain areas, so, yeah, I would say one of the reasons that we are having the continued growth that we have is because of the fact that everybody is there for each other. 

Q.   I know Red and Tom ‑‑ they have all spoken about your freshman center and Adam in particular.   Can you share with us the growth you have seen in those two young men and the way they have been playing this season? 
COACH EAVES:   I think it starts with, number one, just experience at this level.   There's a strength and speed and quickness factor that is just a physical thing.   So they have to adapt to that level.   Then we're asking them on top of that to play a certain way with the systems that we have, how to play with their teammates to become more effective.   So there is a lot on their plate and after Christmas you have a better idea of all those areas and now you're starting to see their individual talents shine through and we're seeing that and that's a good thing. 

Q.   Mike, is there a way that you can align how physically overmatched perhaps your team is, just because they're freshman, because you're playing, for the most part, guys who have had a year of conditioning and strength training at this level? 
COACH EAVES:   From a personal story I remember coming back from my junior year and the very first game of the junior year going on to the ice in the corner and going into a physical confront station with a guy and bumping him and he fell and I was like, that felt good!   But I was just the same age as these guys, 18, turning 19, well they're 17, 18 and they haven't quite gone through that but their time will come.   Both those young guys are willing and they have the heart to want to do that.   You can't give that to them.   The strength and the conditioning, one of the reasons they come to college is because we have the time and the facilities and the people to work with them and that will come.   When this all comes together we will have something special. 

Q.   I wasn't just referring to Adam and Cameron, this is your whole team? 
COACH EAVES:   Absolutely, without question. 

Q.   Do you think having played Michigan State, knowing how they play, just a couple of weeks ago, will help your club? 
COACH EAVES:   You know, Brian, we talked about this upstairs.   I hope it does but having played against teams that play like this, it's hard to not want to try to skate‑‑ they're just standing there, there is so many of them and you have to look at it from above and try to convince them and do a good sales job, and that will be how we rate ourselves as coaches this week, do we sell the idea to the kids, the open space isn't behind them, giving up momentarily to go and get it back, and then play in their zone, and that's how you're going to create offenses. 

Q.   Any chance your club has lost hope of catching Ohio State and trying to get where they're ought. 
COACH EAVES:   I haven't looked at that.   It's about Friday night, us getting better and us playing better hockey.   I don't care who we play, when we get to Detroit it's go us trying to play three good games. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Mike. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT