UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN HOCKEY MEDIA CONFERENCE
January 19, 2015
Mike Eaves
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 Q.   Mike, Eddie Wittchow go is going to miss Friday's game as a result of the DQ Saturday.   Has anything happened with him since that game?  
COACH MIKE EAVES:   We've been informed that Eddie is going to miss Saturday as well.  
   
 Q.   What was the explanation?  
COACH MIKE EAVES:   The explanation was it was a serious hit to the head and the time of the game that the hit took place.   So we are in further discussion with Steve Piotrowski about this but I think that's going to be the bottom line.  
   
 Q.   That obviously depletes your depth quite a bit.   One would think that Cullen Hurley is going to play then, is that your plan?  
COACH MIKE EAVES:   That's correct.  
   
 Q.   What is the string playing out ‑‑ the four straight series against ranked teams, what do you want your team to learn from this stretch?  
COACH MIKE EAVES:   When you play against ranked teams, regardless of what the results are on paper, you become better.   You're drawing up to play at a higher level.   In chemistry I think the term was, if I remember correctly, it was osmosis.   You're drawing up to play at that level.   For our kids that's a good thing.  
One of our second half goals here, third‑‑ we have three goals, be 1‑0 on Friday and 1‑0 on Saturday and play our best hockey at the end of the year.   And playing these ranked opponents is certainly going to help us when we get to the end of the year.  
   
 Q.   You faced Minnesota.   Obviously a pretty good offense.   Michigan seems to be maybe even a step above that.   What's the difference?   How does Michigan play you differently?   How do you manage them differently if at all?  
COACH MIKE EAVES:   I talked to Robby Andringa after the Michigan‑Minnesota series, what he really liked about Michigan was their talent at center.   He said they're really good down the middle, guys that can skate, handle the puck, see the ice and compete.   He felt that was a real strength and he commented about a couple of the defensemen he liked.   In terms of ranking up there if you were to talk about a team with talent, they certainly rank right up there.  
   
 Q.   Obviously Saturday didn't quite go the way you wanted it to.   But Friday managed to get the tie and win in the shootout.   How much confidence does that give you moving forward to get a tie like that against Minnesota?   And do you feel that maybe you take like one step back, you know, one step forward and one step back?   
COACH MIKE EAVES:   We talked about that.   I think we're looking for growth.   So when you get points from a ranked team and we certainly have done that against BU and Minnesota, Tech, these are obvious signs of growth.  
Now, we're not where we need to be, because if you want to be a big‑time team you've got to be able to play back‑to‑back nights.   We talked about that openly.   We haven't been able to do that yet.  
Got an e‑mail from a former alumni or alumni from Wisco that played hockey here many years ago he said the sleeping bear was woke up, he fell asleep on Friday.   It's there.   It's growth.   We can commiserate about the end result on Friday and we'll be honest with each other, we'll look at video and where did we falter, but at the same time we have to celebrate what we did on Saturday against a really good team and we'll build on that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT