WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2014
Andrey Kuznetsov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A.   KUZNETSOV/D. Ferrer
  6/7, 6/0, 3/6, 6/3, 6/2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How does it feel after the best win of your career?   
ANDREY KUZNETSOV:   Well, of course I'm pretty happy.   Yeah, it was probably the biggest win in my career, but I don't think that‑‑ I hope that I will be able to win next matches as well.  
For me, now it's more important to recover for next matches and have some rest, especially mentally.   
   
 Q.   You obviously like the grass at Wimbledon, as you won the juniors here.   
ANDREY KUZNETSOV:   Yeah.   Yeah, I won the junior in 2009.   Back then it was my first experience on grass, and suddenly I liked it.   
So since then, I do like the grass very much.   I had some good victories on grass.   
   
 Q.   And today's a bigger win for you than junior Wimbledon.   It's another level.   
ANDREY KUZNETSOV:   Well, yeah, it's a very, very big victory against a top‑10 player.   First time in my life.  
But one year ago it was a victory against Juan Monaco.   He was like 12 back then, so I do have some experience maybe similar.   
But of course this one is the biggest one.  
   
 Q.   Were you nervous out there?   
ANDREY KUZNETSOV:   You know, I thought that I will be nervous, especially in the end of the match.   I don't know why, but I was pretty calm.   
I did not nervous‑‑ especially‑‑ usually it happens in the last game and you're serving for the match and you start to think like you can win.   This time it was‑‑ I did not nervous.   
   
 Q.   Can you describe what happened in the second set, how that felt?   
ANDREY KUZNETSOV:   Well, I don't know what to say about it.   I mean, first set I was playing good as well, but it was very, very tough.   
But in the second, I don't know, maybe I relaxed a little bit because it was not so many pressure in the beginning of the second set.   I just start to play more aggressive, more like free, you know.   I don't know.   
Usually I'm trying to play like this.   When I feel good, when I am in a good shape, I'm trying to play this tennis.   I just did what I could.  
   
 Q.   You seem like quite a relaxed player.   Is this unusual, how relaxed you are at the moment, or seeming to be, or is this your style?  
ANDREY KUZNETSOV:   No, I'm usually not like very emotional.   It's just the way I am.  
   
 Q.   Are your sights set on Andy Murray in the quarterfinals now?  
ANDREY KUZNETSOV:   (Through translation.)   No, no, no.   Actually, I don't even watch my next opponent.   After the game, after today victory, I just ask my father who am I playing next.   It's just the way it goes on this tournament.   So I don't even look the next round.   
So if I on Friday I will beat Leonardo Mayer, then I will ask my coach who I'm playing next, and that's it.  
   
 Q.   What's your record against Mayer?  
ANDREY KUZNETSOV:   I think I lost to him once one year ago on clay.   It was a long time ago.  
   
 Q.   Presumably it would be great, a match against Andy Murray.   
ANDREY KUZNETSOV:   Yeah, well, hopefully I will be able to play in quarterfinal.   
   
 Q.   Much better game today than your first‑round match.   Was it the quality of your opponent?   Did you feel better?   Were they much the same to you?   
ANDREY KUZNETSOV:   Well, the first and second round there are two different players, different styles, and it was just completely different matches.   
But of course first round of every tournament is not so‑‑ you don't feel so confident.   You have to feel the, I don't know, the surface, the atmosphere.  
Today I played second time already on the same court, so probably it was a little bit advantage for me as well.   
So it's just because of the ‑‑ Monday was the first match.   It was the start of the tournament.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT