NCAA WOMEN'S COLLEGE WORLD SERIES
June 2, 2016
Lu Harris-Champer
Tina Iosefa
Chelsea Wilkinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Georgia 5, Florida State 4
THE MODERATOR: Good afternoon.  At this time we have University of Georgia on the podium.  Coach, general comments about the game?
LU HARRIS-CHAMPER: I'm super proud of the team for the way they just came out and played Georgia softball.  I thought they did a really good on the offensive side, having Chelsea's back after the first inning.  I thought Chelsea pitched an outstanding game.  When she was mixing her speeds and spinning the ball, just did an outstanding job, and I was really proud of her for wanting that last out of the game.  I thought she did an outstanding job just doing her thing.  I thought Tina was a rock at first base, had some tough plays, really did a good job over there. And just really proud of the offense for scoring runs and definitely have to say for the defense, just an outstanding day.
Q. Coach, what can you say about Florida State's ability to hang in the game despite seven errors, continued defensive miscues?  They only lost by one run.
LU HARRIS-CHAMPER: They're a very good team, and it was just a really strong opponent.  I think they have a balanced offense and absolutely a very good team, and I thought they did a good job hanging on.
Q. You've waited and worked for a long time to get to a World Series.  When you wake up this morning, when you ride the bus, when you get to the field, how do you manage the nervousness, the excitement and all that experience?
TINA IOSEFA: I think I try to just manage my excitement by turning it into a positive instead of really being nervous about the game, just having fun with my team out there.
Q. Chelsea, was there any nervousness on the plate?  You gave up two two-run homers and Florida State wouldn't seem to go away.
CHELSEA WILKINSON: Well, Florida State is a very good team so we knew that it was going to be really tough.  I can't say enough about my offense and my defense just having my back.  We pick each other up.  Some days, our pitching just shuts them down and some days down we have to keep hitting and that's exactly what they did.
Q. What balance do you like to find in your lineups between the short game and the power game?  Has that changed over the years you've been at Georgia at all?
LU HARRIS-CHAMPER: You know, I think you utilize the weapons that you have, and we have some awesome offensive weapons.  I think it's great to have speed.  It's great to have power.  It's great to have short game.  It's great to be able to work behind runners.  Again, with what we have, I love what our offense is doing to manufacture runs.
Q. Coach, when you go against a team that has seven errors in a game, how important is it to be able to capitalize off each one like you did with some smart baserunning and some stolen bases late to kind of make it count for your team?
LU HARRIS-CHAMPER: Well, I think errors are a part of the game, and it's all about how you respond for them.  We don't really focus too much on what our opponent is doing, just a matter of taking advantage of situations that we have in front of us.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT