ROLAND GARROS
May 28, 2014
Claire Feuerstein
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. HANTUCHOVA/C. Feuerstein.
      6‑1, 6‑4

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French, please. 

Q.   Good evening.   What about your feelings?   Is there something you would like to talk about after the match? 
    CLAIRE FEUERSTEIN:   Well, I'm a bit disappointed, that's true.   I would have liked to have played better.   Mainly in terms of my score, that's a bit hard for me.
    During the first set I had many game points and I couldn't succeed.   I was here to win, so therefore I'm disappointed to have lost.
    I fought my best with the weapons I had today.   You know, the conditions were not good today‑ not goof for me in any case.
    That's the way it is.   Therefore, she used these heavy balls, heavy clay.   She was really strong and solid today, so I would like to say congratulations to you. 
    As far as I'm concerned, I will try to walk away with the positive things I can take away.   That's some comfort to me, because I think I'm on the right track.   I will have to continue to win more matches neck year here. 

Q.   I think you were saying in Strasbourg that you're not yet used to playing these types of players at that level.   But you're getting close to them, I think. 
    CLAIRE FEUERSTEIN:   Well, yeah, that's true.   I feel okay on the court.   I feel comfortable.   I'm gaining experience, which is what I was missing before. 
    Then these are the types of matches I have to play and then to win, and then I have to play more and more, almost every single day, I was about to say. 
    And I feel better and better against such good players. 

Q.   What did you miss then on the court?   What is it that you didn't do that you should have done?
    CLAIRE FEUERSTEIN:   I think, you know, it's the way that I had built my game.   It was difficult for me to put pressure on her.   You know, the conditions were not good for me because what I was doing well recently was to push back the opponent thanks to a strong ball or point.
    But it couldn't work today because the balls were too heavy.   She was not feeling any danger when I was hitting the balls, and it's the first hit that count.   She took control of these rallies quickly and she played so well as well, so I was really far away from these points and balls. 

Q.   Can you tell us more about your practice.   You practice with Benoit Gacon?
    CLAIRE FEUERSTEIN:   No, Gregory Carraz.

Q.   (Off microphone.) 
    CLAIRE FEUERSTEIN:   Well I practice partly here with the Federation.   Physically speaking I work with Nicolas Perrotte.   Mentally I work with Makis, and also there is a medical center here with the physiotherapists, the doctors.
    Generally here is where I practice with my coach generally, but then I privately pay them.   It's not the Federation that pays for this with Gregory Carraz.   We've been working together for several months already.
    It's a good thing for me to still have this connection with the Federation.   To be able to do this is positive for me because everything is able here on the spot.   I don't have to travel in public transport, which is the case in Paris.
    It's a good compromise, because the Federation didn't have any coach for me.   At present do you know what they want to do?   They want to have a minimum of two players for one coach.   Given my ranking, there is no other player that wants to integrate the Federation, so that's the best compromise. 

Q.   During the first round, you said it took you time before you could gain confidence, it's not natural.   Is that what you work on with Makis.
    CLAIRE FEUERSTEIN:   Yes, and also with Gregory.   He helps me a lot with that, with my confidence.   I should believe in myself before I step on the court that I have this level to bother these top 50 players and girls and to think above and deeper than the top 100. 
    I can do this, I can reach the top 50, to believe in that.   And I think I'm quite humble, sometimes too much, and therefore, at a high level, you must‑‑ I wouldn't say pretend, but you have to be self‑assured.
    You have to have the impression that you can move mountains.   This is what I was missing, this craziness, to believe, to be persuaded that I can win high level matches.
    This is what I work hard on, and I feel better and better. 

Q.   What are you going to do next? 
    CLAIRE FEUERSTEIN:   Well, doubles.   I play doubles tomorrow.   I want to do something good.   The tournament is not yet over for me.   It's not the moment for me to chill out.
    After this I'll take a few days off, because I've had many matches to play with the Fed Cup.   That was a week that I had planned to recover, but then I was lucky enough to play the Fed Cup, and therefore many matches I had to play in a streak. 
    Therefore, I'll recover before I play on grass, Nottingham and Wimbledon's qualification rounds.   I will try to go as deep as I can, and then back to WTA matches to fight as much as I can against top 50, top 100 players, so that I can perhaps enter the main draw at the US Open.   This is my objective. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT