AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: YANKEES VS ASTROS
October 15, 2019
Yuli Gurriel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. AJ moving you up in the order a little bit to hit behind Bregman. He mentioned you've hit into some tough luck this postseason. How do you feel about the at-bats you've had, not just the series but the postseason, and what do you like about them?
YULI GURRIEL: I feel good. I feel really confident at-bat. I saw the lineup change today but I feel good. I feel good.
Q. As a hitter you're facing a pretty tough bullpen with the Yankees. But as you see these guys you get more familiar with them. How does that impact you as a hitter?
YULI GURRIEL: The Yankees have an excellent bullpen. It's a very good bullpen. Having to face so many tough pitchers over the last couple days with Tampa and now with the Yankees, it's been tough but it's also helped us.
Q. AJ has talked about how you've helped mentor Yordan Alvarez during his arrival in the big leagues. And the last game obviously he got very frustrated, he broke his bat on the ground. Have you talked to him? Is he doing okay in terms of maintaining his approach and everything as his frustration has built?
YULI GURRIEL: We were just talking about that yesterday. Just talking to him, talked about just not having to feel the frustrations like that because we're facing very good pitching right now, it's obviously challenging pitching. So just take the at-bat and continue on to the next at-bat. We're going to have the same today, we're going to face tough pitching, so just get ready for that at-bat.
Q. You have a very distinctive hitting style, somewhat of an open stance but also turning your back to the pitcher. Where did you learn to hit like that and how does it help you?
YULI GURRIEL: I feel really good at-bat. I feel good with my hands and with my eyes and seeing the ball. So I feel good with my approach.
Q. Have you always hit that way or did someone teach you to stand like that?
YULI GURRIEL: It's changed a little bit.
Q. From a team standpoint how helpful is it that the Astros are able to not strike out very much? They're last in the league in strikeouts and pitchers set strikeout records every year. How much does that help in a series like this?
YULI GURRIEL: It's definitely helped us out for our team that makes a lot of contact. We put the ball in play, and that helps us. And it also helps us in that we really make it a focal point. We really focus when we're hitting. So it allows us to focus and lock in to make sure that they're making contact, even with two strikes.
Q. (Question in Spanish.)
YULI GURRIEL: (Answer in Spanish.)
Focus and preparation for the season has been huge for me. Obviously the last couple of years I've been learning the league. And over this current year I felt like everything has come together.
Obviously if I'd come to the States earlier, I wonder about that, if I would have done the same and learned the league earlier and been able to attack even earlier. But right now I feel this is the moment for me, the moment for me to make an impact on this club.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT