AL DIVISION SERIES: RAYS VS ASTROS
October 6, 2019
Yuli Gurriel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Yuli, you know how tough the Rays are. What did you learn about them last night, that never-say-die attitude? It looked like you had it going your way and they just were so tough all the way to the end. How does that affect the way you guys approach the game?
YULI GURRIEL: We know that we've got to play strong all the time as well. Obviously, we know that we've got a great bullpen. They've got a great bullpen as well so we've got to continue to compete every single at-bat.
Q. Yuli, do you have a favorite Charlie Morton story from when he was with the Astros and I guess what's the biggest challenge in facing him tomorrow?
YULI GURRIEL: Everything that I have to say about Charlie is nothing but positive. He's a great teammate, he's a great player. He doesn't really talk much, but he shows what he can do on the field. So we've got to put together a good plan tomorrow because he's going to be a tough pitcher to face.
Q. Yuli, just thinking back to how your year started and then when you got hot in July, what changed about that time as you look back and how were you able to be so consistent throughout the rest of the season?
YULI GURRIEL: I had a great preparation during the off-season and continuing in through this season, and obviously even though the season did not start well, I felt really good about my approach to the season throughout the season. And then when we hit July, obviously that's when I started to heat up.
And so it just continued with the work that I was doing and will continue it and hopefully continue to have good results through October.
Q. Yuli, you talked about how much your older brother helped you out in the off-season, some of the drills you guys did. How much do you keep in touch with him throughout the season and how much credit do you give him for the season you've had?
YULI GURRIEL: I've got to give credit to both my brothers, not only my younger brother but also my older brother as well. They've helped me out. Obviously, the preparation we did during the off-season. I didn't know how well it was going to go. But obviously, I think we can see the results on the field. I have to give credit to both my brothers for how they helped me out throughout the season.
Q. Yuli, what's been your impression of Zack Greinke since he's been on the team and what do you see in him as a pitcher?
YULI GURRIEL: He's an exceptional pitcher and the way he goes about his approach is almost -- he's a scientific pitcher in his approach.
And for us, knowing that he's on the mound gives us a lot of security, gives us a lot of confidence. And we also feel the need to play good defense behind him, obviously, perform well offensively, so we feel very comfortable when Zack is on the mound.
Q. Yuli, how much do you work on your scoops at first base in pregame and kind of off-days and how much pride do you take in all your defense but your ability to scoop the ball out of the dirt?
YULI GURRIEL: Obviously, it's something that we worked on every day. And coming from having played so much third base, it was actually a big adjustment for me, playing first base and trying to make those plays. But we work on it every day. It feels like in this postseason, we've had so many, it's like 50 games during the regular season.
But keep 'em coming.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT