CHICAGO FIRE MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 31, 2020
Mauricio Pineda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Nashville SC 1, Chicago Fire 1
Q. Just to look ahead a little bit, and pardon me for rambling on this question, what's it like going into the last week of the season in the position you're in, but still also some questions about how many games you're going to play this week because of Minnesota's game having been postponed for tomorrow already because of COVID, you guys might not even play that game possibly.  What's this week -- how are you feeling about this week looking ahead with so much uncertainty and the importance of the week at the same time?
MAURICIO PINEDA:   Yeah, they actually just told me about the Minnesota game right now.  I think we are just going to prepare as if we going to play Minnesota on Wednesday.  I think that's all we could do, just control what we can control, and if we have the game, that's not really up to us.  So we'll just prepare as well as we can for that and just see what happens with the league.
Q. With MLS changing the standings to be points per game instead of total points, how much does it change how you view a result like tonight with the upcoming week?
MAURICIO PINEDA:   I don't think it changes much.  I think we came here wanting three points.  Obviously it was a really difficult match, so we're happy with taking one point on the road.
But I think we go into every game regardless looking for three points.  I don't think that will change much for our team and our mentality going into games.
Q. Can you walk us through the assist you had to Boris?  Looked like you had a ton of space and you decided to gobble that up and slide the ball through?
MAURICIO PINEDA:   I think in my mind I was taking the space to look for a shot.  I was pretty determined to take a shot from there.  It was still a little far out, so that's why I kind of hesitated.  When I looked up, I saw Boki pretty much wide open, not sure if everyone else was expecting me to shoot because of my body language, but yeah, Boki was in a good spot and luckily he put it away.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT