CHICAGO FIRE MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 7, 2020
Mauricio Pineda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Sporting KC 1, Chicago Fire 0
Q. Just wondering, with Johan Kappelhof back, what does that mean for the team to get him back and to just provide another pretty good option for the team on the back line?
MAURICIO PINEDA:   Yeah, I think we're all really excited to have him back.  He's obviously been out for the majority of this season, so we're excited to have him back, and get him fully fit and help the team in any way that he can.
Q. Seemed like a pretty choppy game today from both sides.  What made it so difficult today?
MAURICIO PINEDA:   Yeah, I think we expected a really difficult game on the road.  I think we knew that from the start.  We knew we had to start strong, and I think we did.  We were mentally ready for the game from the first whistle.
I thought we got off to a good start.  Had a couple chances that we could have finished off, but in an away game like that, I think it's going to be a pretty hectic game like that against a good team.
So it's going to be back and forth, and I don't think we gave up too much in the back, but at the same time, we have to be more clinical in the offensive half and just grind it out when it comes down to keeping the zero in the back, and I think that's where we fell short today.
Q. You guys have -- you're in a tight run of games with a lot of games.  You're playing a lot of minutes yourself, and on top of that, you've got all the same-day travel that you have to do.  How is the team and yourself feeling physically?
MAURICIO PINEDA:   I think pretty good.  Obviously it's difficult playing a lot of games like this in a short period of time, but I think we have a lot of guys that will step up and change the game either off the bench or start if we need them to.  I think it's really challenging the depth of the team, but I think we're pretty happy with the guys that are stepping up and helping with that.
Q. Obviously with the absence of Gastón Giménez, you're in a position as someone who is comfortable at both center back and midfield where you might be asked to play different positions, potentially in the same match.  Being in that position, does that change your approach day-to-day in training, or do you feel you're always in a place where you can step in wherever you're asked to contribute?
MAURICIO PINEDA:   I think it's been pretty clear from the coaching staff that I might have to step into that role.  I think I just have to prepare mentally and be ready for whatever position I have to play and just give my full effort in whatever spot I get called up for.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT