TOSTITOS FIESTA BOWL: TCU v BOISE STATE
January 1, 2010
Daryl Washington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Daryl, tell me from your position on the field, what does a physical game look like? When you are playing physical, describe the plays. How does it look? 
 DARYL WASHINGTON: Well, you know, we have been watching so much film, you have so much options. You don't have one specific play. We say, What are they going to do? Knowing what they are going to do is easier for you. It is easy to attack. It is easy to anticipate a play before it happens. 
 So I mean, in my mind, knowing those plays, if you know they are going to do that, I can anticipate, okay, I have seen this before over and over. It makes it so much easier to anticipate the play before it happens.
 I know what to expect and then we can go and attack. That's my mind-set.

 Q. When you think of your best collisions this season, do they come from the run-game inside? Did they come pursuing inside out, on a pass game, on a quarterback, in the middle of the field? Where and how? Give me some of that color. 
 DARYL WASHINGTON: I would say all around overall. It has come in the passing game. It has come on plays where I should have been, especially in the run game, just kind of anticipating the plays. Just kind of all-over-the-field style of play. 
 We are trying to anticipate the plays before it happens.

 Q. So yesterday -- you may not remember this -- but at one point you were very complimentary to Kellen Moore and then you said, "But we will own him on Monday night." Do you remember that? 
 DARYL WASHINGTON: I don't necessarily remember that. But Kellen Moore is a great quarterback. We will definitely have to be more comfortable in the pocket, make sure he is not setting his feet. I think we will definitely try to have our way with him and try to make sure we don't let him set his feet and get comfortable.

 Q. How do you feel right now? 
 DARYL WASHINGTON: We are ready to play Boise State. I know they are looking forward to playing us. It will be an exciting game. 

 Q. How has the Fiesta Bowl experience been for you? 
 DARYL WASHINGTON: It has been the biggest stage we have been on, been a part of. I am just taking it all in and enjoying the experience. 

 Q. Last year the game between your two teams was pretty low-scoring. Do you expect the same this year? 
 DARYL WASHINGTON: You just never know. It is a big game. They are 13-0. We are 12-0. 
 Don't know what to expect.

 Q. What are your feelings about the game? How did they change from when you first heard you were playing Boise State to now? 
 DARYL WASHINGTON: I think it is much easier. We didn't get overexcited. We just need to be more mentally prepared for the game. Last year it was a little overwhelming would be my first thought.
 Coming to this, we are more laid back. Have an understanding because we have been there before. 

 Q. What do you think about the matchup with Boise State? 
 DARYL WASHINGTON: Who knows what this game will be like. We are looking forward to the experience. It will be a fun matchup. Kellen Moore is a great quarterback. We have to get some pressure on him. 

 Q. Do you feel the weight of the smaller schools on your shoulders? 
 DARYL WASHINGTON: Not so much. We are ready to play. We are ready to go out there. 
 We are the No. 1, No. 2 team. It is very important to not make as many mistakes. 

 Q. There is so much high pressure for this game, so many more questions, photographers taking pictures. How is the buildup of this team, the mental approach as you draw closer to gametime? 
 DARYL WASHINGTON: Trying to stay focused, I would say, is the main thing. We are playing on a bigger stage. We just have to settle ourselves down and get comfortable.

 Q. This defense has been so good all year. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT