MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
April 1, 2021
Stefanos Tsitsipas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  H. HURKACZ/S. Tsitsipas
 2-6, 6-3, 6-4
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. What do you think went wrong from being a set and a break up?  Seemed like everything was going right for you, and then Hurkacz came back and he just kept fighting.  What do you think was a mistake or something that you did wrong or maybe he started playing better from that stage?  How would you explain it?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   Well, there were two factors.  One, I didn't manage to keep my serve, which is the most important thing at that point.  I don't even have to break anymore, just managing my serve.  Didn't happen.
 I don't know whether that contributed to him hitting the line on that second breakpoint that I had to go up a double break.  I think I would be going up 4-1, serving for 5-1, and he hit that forehand on the line which was quite extreme in the very corner of the court.
 So that was, like, probably little bit lucky from his side.  I didn't see that shot during the entire week, and it happened on that breakpoint.
 Yeah, I would probably say that.  I think it would have been a completely different match if that shot landed out and not there, which was amazing from his side.  Psychology would have changed.
 But, you know, serving, knowing that you're 5-1 down, I feel like the opponent would be completely crushed.  There would be zero hope for him.  But still, I didn't feel comfortable after that.  I don't know.  I felt like that was still somewhere in the back of my head, what a missed opportunity.  I could have just completely, you know, punched him, knocked him out.  But it was a bit unlucky for me, as well.
 Q. You and several other of the top players have gone down this week.  What do you chalk that up to?  Is it conditions being very tough?  Huge depth on the men's tour?  What do you think of when you see Sascha and Daniil and you all having trouble here, not getting into the final weekend?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   Nothing to say.  I didn't have trouble.  I was feeling quite well today.  I think I played unbelievable tennis until that point, 6-2, 3-1 up, going for a double break like nothing could stop me.  And then suddenly that one shot changed the whole psychology of the match.
 Nothing to say.  I think I would have done much better this week but it didn't happen.  Great for Hurkacz who did what he had to do in order to beat me, but I feel like there was a lost opportunity that shouldn't have happened today.  Definitely not.  It should have been my way.  It should have been my win.
 Q. I want to change gears a little bit.  There is so much in tennis.  There is the beauty of making strokes, there is a psychology, there is sort of the journey, step-by-step journey as you improve your career.  What gives you most joy about being a tennis player?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   I feel like the challenge that you prove you're better than anyone out there.  It's a very competitive job that I have.  It all has to do with my own performance.  If I don't perform, I don't get paid, I don't proceed, I don't get better at what I do.
 So I feel like -- I mean, I'm employed on my own, I'm self-employed, and that's what I love about this.  I get to choose when I work, where I work, and I think tennis is one of the best jobs in the world, playing tennis, making it for a living.
 The beauty of it is that being able to express yourself through your strokes and being able to showcase your personality in front of thousands, maybe even like millions of people everywhere around the world.
 Q. Obviously across this event and in Acapulco you have obviously played some really good tennis.  Now that the tour events have come to an end, how would you assess the last couple of weeks and your game at the moment?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   Good game.  I have been feeling great.  I was very stressed these two weeks.  Especially this week I was feeling very stressed.  I felt like it was my opportunity.  You know, I could have -- I did quite well, but I feel like there was more space for me to show something greater.
 It's a disappointing loss.  It's a very disappointing loss.  It left out of my hands.  I grabbed it.  It was there.  Everything was under control.  And suddenly, I don't know, self-explosion (smiling).
 That's a pity, and I hope it doesn't happen again.  I hope things like this will be in the minority of the sport and that I can always close situations and moments like this.
 But I'll take these two weeks as great two weeks, great memories, and I had plenty of fun playing out on the court.  I enjoyed myself.  I was angry at some times, and I don't like being angry, but always seeking for a better version of myself and trying to improve in ways that might give me something better next time.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT