ROLEX PARIS MASTERS
November 1, 2020
Stefanos Tsitsipas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. I haven't spoken to you since Paris, and I know you played last week, but I wanted to ask you about the vacation that you took with Giannis and Manolo and the time you spent with them.  I'm wondering, how did you manage to kind of destress after Roland Garros?  What was it like hanging out with Giannis and what perhaps did you learn from your time with him?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   I had a really good time with Giannis, and once again, I understood how humble and what a nice guy he is.
 I think there was plenty for me to learn from him, and the fact that we are both playing different sports at such high level kind of -- we have a lot of things that we relate, and I was very happy to talk with him and discuss about, you know, the differences of our sport, about work ethics, and just basically our lives.
 I had a very good time with him.  I met his wife, I met his little son that was born few months ago.  Overall, it was a great experience.
 Q. Asking about the year as a whole, 2020.  It's obviously been very difficult for everybody, but I wonder, for you, do you feel happy with the progress that you have made this year?  Do you think you're a better player than you were, say, a year ago?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   There were two different levels of me, I think, as opposed to last year.  I did different things last year -- sorry, I did things differently last year.  I'm still trying to improve in all of departments.
 I wouldn't say necessarily I have become better.  And that was also something we discussed with Giannis once I was in Greece having my vacation.  How sometimes there comes a moment where you feel like you're reaching your limits, but then there are certain things where you kind of do things wiser and you don't overtrain.
 Little things like this that not necessarily make you elevate your game, because for sure there is a maximum at some point, you know.  You can be "God mode," it's impossible for a human being to do that (smiling).
 I think this year my attitude has improved a lot.  And also, my tranquility and how calm I am on the court have given me a lot of matches and also a lot of confidence in believing in myself when tough situations show up in the match.
 Q. I'm wondering, how are you feeling physically and mentally entering this tournament?  Because even though there haven't been that many tournaments this year, it was still kind of hectic.  Have you found this period mentally exhausting?  How fresh do you feel entering this tournament?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   I feel good.  I don't feel exhausted, because I have played not that many tournaments this year, so I don't really have a reason to be exhausted.
 The part that makes it more tiring than usual is for sure the virus itself and all the things that keep showing up and the changes that are happening.  I would say that that's the biggest challenge that we are facing right now.
 But tournaments, I would love to play every single week, honestly.  If I could play every single week, I would sign up in a tournament every single week and play.
 But for sure I'm trying to keep my body at a good balance and not overdo it, and for sure put emphasis and attention on the important tournaments.
 Q. I wonder, looking ahead to Australia, have you made plans yet for what to do about going to Australia?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   Plans on going to Australia?
 Q. Yes.  When do you think you will go?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   I think I will be in Australia two weeks prior the tournament.  But I don't really have any plans right now.
 Generally it's very strange.  Last year I had everything planned, I pretty much knew where I was going, when I was going.  This year it's a bit like -- it's a mess, unpredictable.
 Q. But if you have the opportunity you would expect to play one or two tournaments before the Australian Open?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   Yes, that is part of the plan.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT