ROLAND GARROS
September 29, 2020
Stefanos Tsitsipas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  S. TSITSIPAS/J. Munar
 4-6, 2-6, 6-1, 6-4, 6-4
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. Tell me, after you experienced how to lose matches that you had almost won, are you trying to experience how to win after you were almost losing?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   No, I wasn't really doing that (smiling).  It just happened that I found my tennis on the third set a bit late, but I felt that I had control even though it was two sets to Love down.  In the third set when this switch happens, I felt like I have chances of winning.
 I wasn't really thinking about anything else.  I know the past few weeks have been a little bit difficult with certain losses that I had and a bit unusual, to be honest, but I'm trying to learn from them, grow from them, and trying to put them behind and continue stronger.
 Q. On court you mentioned that you had never played a match like this before.  What exactly did you refer to when you said that?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   I felt like the start of the match -- of course broke in the very beginning.  But I don't know why I didn't feel very comfortable out on the court.  Something seemed to be off, kind of.
 Yeah, the conditions were way different than they were in Hamburg last week.  Although I started well, I was kind of like switched off again later during the first set.
 As you saw, whatever I was trying to do was just most of my shots were landing out and nothing was going my way.  It was crazy what was happening out there, and I couldn't find any solutions.  I feel like I was just turning down the hill, and I'm happy that I took my time.  I started thinking a little bit more.  Started figuring out why I was rushing so much and why I was going for extreme things.
 Yeah, after a bit of processing and thinking, I think that helped settle things down and have a fresh new start of the match.
 Q. Last time you played the French Open was on the very same court, you played that incredible match against Wawrinka.  Did you have to think back to that match?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   The court today felt very different than the one I played with Wawrinka.  So no, not really.  I thought about it that I did play the match against him last year on this court.  It didn't feel like Lenglen to me this year.
 Q. When you competed in Rome last week, you competed without your dad.  He has been able to join you in Paris.  Can you chat with us about what the experience was like competing in Rome without your dad and how it felt for him to be with you today?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   It was difficult not having my dad in Rome.  Honestly, I was struggling a little bit.  It was difficult, the separation, and not having him there.
 I think it was the first time that my dad was absent from a match that I played since I was 12 or 13 when I first started traveling and playing.
 So it was quite unusual.  For sure I didn't feel comfortable.  Although I did have my coaches from the academy and my entire team, exception to my dad.
 I felt like there was something missing, and I think that's very valuable for a player to feel comfortable, having the right people around him.
 I think I appreciate it and cherish that even more the fact that I have my dad next to me and the fact that he's like my wing man, my right arm, helps me with everything and makes me feel important when I'm out on the court and in my daily life.
 Q. You have talked about the conditions, but how do you feel physically?  Because it's not normal to play on Sunday in ATP 500 final and on Tuesday play five sets.
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   Yes, but that's how things are.  You cannot avoid them.
 For me, it was difficult, the transition from Hamburg to here.  Balls are different.  Surface is different.  A lot of rain.  It took time for me to adjust.
 I realized during the match that when I started coming back in the third set, I knew that was the moment that I adjusted to the conditions.  Things seemed to go my way, and I was feeling more and more comfortable on court as more of the match evolved.
 So it's all in the brain, all in the mental, I think, the way you take things and you try and make something out of them.
 I'm happy that I won that match, for sure.  I'm very, very happy that I found solutions and I fought hard and little small details that helped me play better.
 But, yeah, I didn't have matches in this surface with these balls before, and this match was my first encounter with all these new things that showed up.
 Q. A lot of people use a sports psychologist these days in tennis.  As far as I'm concerned, you don't, I believe.  So I just wondered, would you say that Apostolos sort of functions as your psychologist?  Who do you think helps you with the challenges you have to face on and off the court mentally and psychologically?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   My father serves, he's like a Swiss knife.  He has a lot of important roles around me.  He knows me the best, and we share a great relationship with him.  I know I have been hard with him sometimes on court, and I'm trying to change that.  Some of my behavior on court has been a bit unacceptable, and I would totally agree with that.
 Yeah, I'm trying to respect what he's doing.  I think he respects what I'm doing.  Our relationship is very unique and special.
 He used to be my physio back when I wouldn't travel with a physio.  He used to be my fitness coach.  He has a degree in fitness and physio.  He finished studies on all of these things.  Back when I played challengers, he would treat me after my matches.  He would do fitness to me before competitions or tournaments, even during the competition and tournaments.  My coach, psychologist, philosopher.  He's a funny guy.  I like having him around.
 Sometimes he can -- you know, he gets worried.  He's my father, after all.  I think he gets worried and might get tensed and stressed.  I'm trying to avoid that and see only the good side of the things that we share.
 Q. What do you think is the most important strength you need to go deep within the next ten days in the tournament?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   Adjustment.  Adjustment.  Adjustment.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT