DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 29, 2020
Stefanos Tsitsipas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








N. DJOKOVIC/S. Tsitsipas
6-3, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Is it a question of frustration losing the final a second year or are you happy with the way you got to the final and the way you played?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: I don't really feel much honestly. I think I just felt more happy first year when I made the finals. For sure I'm proud of myself because I showed good discipline and I managed to play the same this year.
But it's kind of disappointing trying so hard and much and not really getting the final result that you want. For sure I would love to see myself holding that trophy. Of course, he gave more than me and he deserves it.
Q. What could you have done a little better perhaps tonight?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: I just think that breakpoint in the first set could have some sort of a difference if I would just return that serve a bit more deep.
Q. It seemed in the first set you were the one doing better on the returns than him. Why do you think he was the one who was able to get that clutch break?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: He was applying more pressure. He was close to the line. He was returning well. He's known for this. He returned well. I served a couple of double-faults which I'm not really used to serving.
Again, yeah, I did apply a lot of pressure on my return games in the beginning of the match. Came very close. Missed a couple of backhands.
I just felt he was very stiff in the beginning. I didn't really use that.
Q. He obviously hasn't lost this year. 20-win streak. How do you view the kind of consistency he's able to bring over a long period of time?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: I personally think it is possible. I am not surprised he has done it. I want to do it one day too.
I think it's a good combination of giving less than you have to on the court, having a good rehab, having a good in-between match scheduling, how well you recover after every match. Your diet, of course, plays an important role. Also your mental state, having a clear mental state, not having anything bother you.
I've been playing some good tennis. Obviously I've never had the record that Djokovic has. But I do think it's possible. Of course, lots of respect to him for doing it so many times.
Q. In the business end of sets, his returns seem to get more solid. He seems to come at serves much quicker than earlier in the set. Do you feel that way?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Yeah, I did feel that way.
Q. Do you have any cool projects in the works for your YouTube channel?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Not really. I said to Hugo, I think you know who is you go, if you really follow me. I said I want him to come to Indian Wells, but then I canceled last week. He's not coming.
Q. Is that because you want to focus more on the tennis?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Yes.
Q. You got the code violation in the second set. It seems you're not hearing what is coming from the box, if it's coming from the box. Does that distract you or set you back or not something that...
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: No, not really.
Q. Are you heading to the Philippines next?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Tomorrow? No, Monday.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT