US OPEN
August 29, 2020
Stefanos Tsitsipas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. Normally when we think of the US Open, we think of the raucous crowds, late-night matches, energy.  We don't have that this year.  Does that help or hurt you?  Does it allow you to concentrate and focus or maybe you can't draw off the energy from the wild crowds in New York?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   I've never played on Arthur Ashe or in a big court to experience that here at the US Open.  I only played here twice.  I haven't done really well, up to my expectations.
 I would love to play, for sure it's like a dream for everyone, to play a night session match on Arthur Ashe.  It's been a dream of mine since forever.  We won't have the opportunity this year.
 I'm just going to have to face the situation as is and play, even lacking that atmosphere, not having that atmosphere be part of the tennis this year.
 I don't know.  We'll just wait one more year.  That's all right.  We can handle that.
 Q. I wanted your reaction to your mindset during this whole pandemic stretch being away from the game?  How did you deal with all these months away from the tour?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   I was able to fill my time and be constantly productive, even though this time was kind of weird for everyone.  I did find ways to be more involved in other things, except tennis of course.  My training was a big part of my daily routine back at the academy in the south of France.
 I just took time to gravitate towards myself, just have a good time, even though that really wasn't the best period of time to have a good time.  We're all locked in our homes.  I still found ways to feel entertained and feel like I'm doing something.
 Q. Your reaction to news that Novak was going to vacate his spot as head of the ATP council?  What are your thoughts with Vasek's quotes?  How much have you been involved in talk of a new group being formed?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   I haven't been involved at all, like zero.  I have nothing to do with this.
 Q. Are you in favor of what they're talking about?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   I don't even know what they're talking about.  I'm not following.
 Q. What effect do you think it has on the tournament and what effect does it have on you that neither Roger Federer nor Rafael Nadal are here?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   Roger and Rafa?  Well, Rafa, I feel like he prioritized the French, which is his choice, his priority.  And Roger, we won't be seeing Roger because he's injured.  So there you have it.
 Q. My question is, what effect does it have?  Not their reason, but what effect does it have on you and on the tournament?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   On me?  Well, I guess less difficult times facing them (smiling).  For the tournament?  I mean, it's a loss for everyone, I think.  Lack of personalities, because they are personas.  They make our sport look great.
 I think it's probably less for the players because some players have more chances of doing well.  Worse for the tournament because the tournament won't be having them participate at this event, so yeah...
 Q. The other day you were talking about the tough times you had, how your family was in need, and your aunt stepped in.  Talk about her role, how that helped you out at the time.
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   My aunt was very close to our family from the very beginning.  Yeah, she's part of our family and she helped us a lot throughout these difficult times.  She was our main source of I guess financial support.  I feel like I owe her a lot.
 My aunt, she was also playing tennis with my mom.  They are twins with my mom.  She does understand also the struggles of wanting to become a professional in the sport, what it takes.  She was always there supporting us, providing whatever she had for us to make it also together with my mom.
 What else can I add?  She would come and watch me play a tournament.  She was always there, my number one support, my biggest support.  Big fanatic of tennis.  Great, great person with a very warm heart.
 Still up to this day she offers a lot.  I mean, obviously I'm independent now, but she's still very close.  I speak to her quite often.
 Q. Did she come from Russia or the Soviet Union?  How do you feel about that part of your heritage?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   Which?
 Q. Does your mom have a connection with Russia or was that wrong?  Was she of Russian heritage?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   Yes, my mom is from Russian heritage.  She played professional tennis, one of the best in the USSR.  Her father was one of the most well-known, famous football players for the USSR national football team and played at the Spartak Moscow football team.  One of the highest, most respected football players, probably also athletes, at that time.  We have history with sports.
 I never got to meet him, which is quite sad.  But I'm sure he's watching.  I'm sure he's there.  My mom tells me stories about him.  He was a great person, always giving to people, always providing to others.
 I wish I can be like him.  I wish I can leave something behind, be an example to others.
 Q. The match yesterday and the match in Australia against Milos, was there a difference?  What did you learn from the two matches?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   Yeah, the level of tennis that I played at Australia as opposed to yesterday was much, much different.  I felt very close.  I felt like if things could have gone my way in the first set, it would have been a completely different match.  I was a point away of closing the first set, but I didn't.
 I really hope I get a win against him in the future because he's a very difficult opponent to face.  I think the best server on the tour.  Now I can compare because I played him twice.  On both matches he was consistent and serving incredibly well.  Makes your life very difficult (smiling).
 I think getting a win against him will be a really, really good victory that shows a lot of value.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT