DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 26, 2020
Stefanos Tsitsipas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. TSITSIPAS/A. Bublik
7-6, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You came through a couple pressure points there pretty well, didn't you? You could have been down 5-3 in the second.
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Yeah, also had a lot of breakpoints which I didn't play very smart. They came quite different. I wouldn't really get dropshots out of nowhere. I mean, his dropshots were really good today. Yeah, he likes to serve and volley. He did quite well keeping that in the game and surprising me most of the time.
But, yeah, it's a tough Stefanos that managed to find ways in these tough moments to apply pressure and not let go.
Q. How are you feeling overall with your game after two matches?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Right now I feel a bit sleepy. That's because I sleep late every day. It's difficult for me with the jetlag. On the other hand, I'm playing pretty relaxed. I feel my body flexible. I feel my mobility is good. I'm not really tight, which is good.
Q. 12 months ago here you broke into the top 10 for the first time. Now that you've had a year in that position, how comfortable do you feel in the top 10? How comfortable do you feel coming to a tournament like this being the No. 2 seed?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: I feel I achieved good things so far. I remember this moment very well, very vividly, when I broke into the top 10 for the first time, beating Gael Monfils in the semifinals. Yeah, it was a great moment for me.
Right now I'm trying to keep it well-balanced. As I said, I don't want to give too much out there, but at the same time I don't want to compromise. Wait a second, I want to compromise (smiling). What I want to say?
Yeah, it's great being in a position where I am right now, No. 6 in the world, trying to get better every single day. I've been stuck here for quite a while now. It is successful because it's not easy to sustain that and stay up there. I think it's more difficult to stay up there than to reach that level.
Yeah, I'm trying to put extra work, the extra amount of work, concentration on every single match because I know that's going to be something that's going to define my future, the opportunities that I'm going to get in the future to maybe be No. 5 again or even top 4. Why not?
Q. Maria Sharapova announced her retirement from tennis a short while ago.
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Oh, yeah?
Q. Do you have any unique memories of Maria? What do you make of her career?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Well, I spoke to her little bit. I met her last year. She used to have the same physio as I have now. I come from a Russian background. For me, I kind of understand the way she approached tennis, the attitude, all of that.
I watched her play when I was young. I remember her Wimbledon title when she was, I don't know, 20 years old.
Q. 17.
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: 17 she was? Unbelievable. I remember that.
She had a really good career, I can tell you. I think many people are jealous of the career that she had. Obviously she was behind Serena, another great athlete. I would say after Serena she's probably the best after her.
She had a really good career with great victories, great achievements in tennis. I think she added a lot to our sport.
Q. You've been traveling from a very young age. How important is the family support, your father, brother? How important is that for your tennis career?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Having them around, I really don't know what answer to that. Sometimes honestly I'm tired of them, to have them around all the time. At the same time they're my family and I love them. It's not easy traveling with your family. You wouldn't expect that coming from me, for sure (smiling).
I mean, my mom is a lot involved. (Indiscernible) he's my brother, because he's doing his job. But sometimes I feel like my mom and dad are way too involved in my life outside and inside the tennis court. Maybe not so much outside the court, but inside the court.
I'm trying to sometimes not pay too much attention of what they say. It's quite difficult, honestly (smiling). But I love them. I love them. I love them. I honestly don't know if I would have achieved the things I have achieved today if it wasn't for them. They want the best for me.
Q. Have you spoken to any other players who have had their dads as coaches or their families involved in their career to see how they navigated that? As you get older, you obviously want to take control.
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: There aren't many players that had their parents as their coaches. More on the female tour, the WTA Tour. Not so much on the ATP Tour.
I know Sascha has his dad as his coach. I haven't really spoken to him about their relationship.
What else has father tennis coach?
Q. Nadal.
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: That's an uncle.
Q. Same family.
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: I have a different relationship with my uncle than my dad (smiling).
Q. Casper Ruud.
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: I feel like he did it recently. It wasn't like a thing before? I know his dad is a coach. Yeah, sure.
I mean, Casper seems like he has a really good relationship with his dad, low-key. I don't know. I've never spoken to him honestly. I don't know.
Q. I was at Davis Cup in Greece when you were there. There's a tie coming up. You're nominated.
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Nominated as what?
Q. You're playing Davis Cup?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Yeah, true, next week.
Q. The nominations came out today. Can you reflect on your first Davis Cup experience and how are you looking ahead to the tie against the Philippines?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Well, we really want that win for sure. We've been fighting so hard to get promoted to Division II. I've never played Davis Cup before. This last September was my first appearance in a Davis Cup tie. I really liked it. I was surprised on how much I liked it. Playing for my country, not playing so much for myself. I was trying to grind out there and give it all, give it my all.
I'm really excited for it. I'm really waiting for the Philippines. But now I got to focus here, get things done. I really have a good chemistry with the boys. I honestly feel we can do great things if Michail keeps improving, my brother keeps improving, get the opportunity to play against top guys. That's going to give them better understanding of how tennis works.
Yeah, I'm really looking forward to it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT