MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
March 23, 2021
Stefanos Tsitsipas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. How are you feeling since the big final in Acapulco?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   Well, I haven't been feeling my greatest.  I knew it was an opportunity for me.  Reflecting back to that match, I feel like the level of tennis was all right.  It wasn't something crazy or incredible.  It was a good final.  I've certainly played better in the past.  I wasn't just able to counter-punch.  I just (indiscernible) his game.  He made it much more difficult this time for me.
 We played, I would say, a decent final.  I had so many opportunities.  I even up to this day tend to think about this final because it could have been a completely different outcome and a result for me.
 But I think I can only learn from it.  It is something that I cannot go back and fix, so I might as well just embrace it and move on stronger and take that as an example, as a lesson that I wouldn't want to happen again in the near future or in any other final that I might play.
 Q. How can you use that big result in Acapulco and take it towards this week?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   It adds a lot to my psychological state.  I wasn't expecting myself to end up in the final.  I wasn't thinking of the final when I first started playing the tournament.  I was enjoying every single day there.  The weather was great.  The people were nice.  The crowd seemed very excited to have me there.  I wanted to bring the best out of my game in that tournament.
 There wasn't a single trace of negativity or any negative outcome until the final.  It sort of felt like the energy kind of made its way through and things kind of changed and I didn't feel as comfortable suddenly as before.
 Nevertheless, it was a week to remember, a good start of the season I would say.  Having finals like this, having matches like this, I'm looking forward for more moments and more feelings like this.
 Q. There hasn't been a Masters event like this in a long time with so many top guys not entering the draw at all.  How different does it feel for you being at this tournament without any of the big three here?  First time in your career it would have happened.  Does it feel like an opportunity, something strange or sad or exciting?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   Well, it is an opportunity, I won't lie.  It is an opportunity.  There are plenty of good guys that aren't in the top five that can play good tennis, as well.  I can see them as a threat, too.
 I don't see myself as the favorite of the tournament.  I like to enter a tournament with low expectations and build my way through.  I have a pretty I would consider difficult road despite all of this.  I have matches that I will really have to fight hard and give out my best.  With a lack of spectators, it's going to feel a little bit different.
 But generally speaking, yeah, it's an opportunity.  I can see it that way.  Let's hope for the best.  Let's hope I can take advantage of this and add some points.  Miami last year -- two years ago, didn't offer a lot of points to my ranking, so I think I made the fourth round.  That is definitely a better opportunity for me to do better this year.
 Q. I was wondering we've seen a video of you diving on court during your practice.  Is everything okay physically?  Is it something that you do very often?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   No, I don't do this very often.  We were working on getting better on the net.  I was just trying to get every single ball back.  It hurt.  It hurt (smiling).
 Q. But you're okay?  Physically you're okay?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   No, physically I'm fine.  I didn't even know the video was out.  I had some fans watching my practice, but I didn't know they were recording every single second of my practice session.
 Q. You expressed some doubts about the playing conditions in Miami after the final in Acapulco.  Is what you found what you expected?  Is it better or worse?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   It's actually better than I expected it to be.  That's why I'm talking about low expectations.  I always like to go in with low expectations.  Once I set the barrier too high, then I end up getting worse results than I initially thought I would get.
 So it is looking better.  I like how they have created this big space where the center court used to be, they've used that to make a huge warmup area for the players.  They're playing soccer.  Players are enjoying the sun.
 It's a shame to have such a big, pretty modern, fresh new stadium like the Hard Rock Arena and not take advantage of it regarding the fans.  But you can't really do much about it.  It is what it is.
 So far I'm enjoying it.  It's nice.  We have a really nice hotel where most of us stay.  The measures are not as strict as I would expect them to be.
 Q. Besides all of this craziness with COVID, what is something unique to you about the Miami Open?  Is the feeling you get when you walk onto court here different than anywhere else?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   I feel like a rockstar.  That's due to the Hard Rock Stadium (laughter).
 Q. Another Miami-related question.  You touched on it just before.  I saw your comments from Acapulco saying it just wouldn't be the same without the atmosphere and energy of the Miami fans.  They are going to have about 800 to 1,000 fans in grandstand.  What is the atmosphere and energy in Miami that you like and have come to expect?  How do you think it will be with the limited crowd this year?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   In all honesty, I'm not expecting it to be as Acapulco.  First of all, the way they had the whole situation set in Acapulco was much more flexible.  I feel like they let in more people than here, if I'm not wrong.  Generally speaking was a great atmosphere in every single match, regardless if that was the final or the first round, to me it felt the same.  It's something that I've missed.
 I don't really know what to expect so far.  I've seen some people come to my practice session.  I don't know how it is going to be on the grandstands.  Again, I don't have much expectations from it.  I'm not expecting a lot.
 I think they are going to let a few people in, watch the matches.  I love it here in Miami.  I have good memories here from Miami.  I've played here, the finals in doubles, two years ago.  I did pretty well in singles.  Many good memories from this city.
 So I can't say I don't like it here.  It's just the way it is, the way they're taking measures that makes it a bit different than the last week's location.  That's probably something that I dislike.  I probably find that it's too much.
 There are certain locations in the world I played, French Open, dealt pretty okay with it.  They let some people in Philippe Chatrier, center court.  I don't know what the situation in Florida is with the cases or whatever that is, but I feel like there's definitely more gap to close in.
 Q. You played Musetti in Mexico.  What did you think of him?  Quite a couple weeks there.  What is your take on his game and potential?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   I really like his game.  He has a very complete, diverse game.  He can take good use of his backhand.  I think also his forehand is an element of surprise for his game.  His backhand, he curates it really well.
 I think he has still a lot to improve in his serve.  I personally find.  But his whole game is very well-constructed.  I feel like he knows what he's doing.  When he's on the court, he mixes up a lot with slice backhands and one-handed backhand down the lines.  He has I would say a clay court game, but he can definitely adjust it accordingly according to the surface.
 I would say it was difficult playing against him.  There were some games that were tight, that were close.  I dealt with the situation better than he did.  Served pretty well.  In that match I think I was much more experienced, much more fresh than he was.  He played a lot of sets, put a lot of hours in during that week.
 Q. You've won big tournaments before, obviously winning in London.  How much of a goal is it for you to win a Masters 1000 event?  You've been close before, but given you haven't started this event yet, what would that mean to you to win at this level?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   I would be thrilled to walk away with a Masters 1000 title.  The opportunity hasn't presented itself, but I feel like I'm getting really close.  I really want it a lot.  The desire is there.  It has always been.
 I'm always working to get better.  I think that's what is going to help me get to that point of winning Masters 1000 events.  I just need more opportunities to get there.  That's all.
 THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT