WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 21, 2020
Stefanos Tsitsipas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. Given the kind of unusual situation we have here, including the lack of a few players, et cetera, does the draw make any sense?  The top seeds, are they still really the ones most deserving of attention or is it kind of a free-for-all?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   I would say more a free-for-all.  I don't know, it's different playing with no people.  I was watching a few matches yesterday.  I don't know, there's not much atmosphere when players are playing.  There's a lack of that.  You can even see it on TV when you're watching the matches from here.
 I can say, yeah, without the atmosphere it does look and feel different.  For me, I haven't really gone out there and played without spectators.  I think last time was when I was 12, 11 years old, long time ago, that I had to play a match with no spectators, no people around.  No, we did have chair umpires.
 I think it's going to be challenging for most players, especially for the top players, which are used to having a big fan base, being surrounding by fans cheering their name, having people that love them when they play.
 I think it's going to create a more equal space for any player.  I think, yeah, again, it is going to be challenging.  I think it benefits a bit the lower-ranked players.
 Q. What's the biggest difference about having this tournament in New York instead of Cincinnati?  Anything you miss about playing in Cincinnati?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   The facilities in Cincinnati are really good.  I think it's very organized for the players.  It provides a lot.  At the same time it's good having two tournaments at the same place without having to fly around too much, being able to play in one location...
 For sure I'm going to miss Cincinnati.  Cincinnati is the tournament where I celebrate my birthday every single year.  I'll definitely miss it.  But I'm pretty sure I will be there next year.
 Q. With the adjusted ranking system, do you see the upcoming tournaments kind of as a bonus?  Do you see the stakes are any different?  Does it require any sort of different mental approach or do you see them as exactly the same?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   I personally see them as exactly the same, despite the changes.  For me, it's a great opportunity to be able to perform and play at such a high level again.  Personally speaking, I'm very happy I get to be back on the court.
 I was very happy when I first came here and saw my fellow players.  I greeted all of them, had a smile on my face seeing them, being surrounded by them.  It's a great environment.
 Honestly, I'm just happy competing again, just happy to be able to be back to my normal happiness.
 Q. What has been fun about this new environment?  What is the new US Open, the new Cincinnati?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   What's good about the new US Open is it is going to be in the record books.  It has never happened before, I assume.  You are part of history I guess (smiling).  That's what makes it different.
 We are just used to every single year have spectators, being surrounded by people.  This year, as I said, it is very different.  What I find very interesting is, like, I want to see who is going to manage that better than anyone else.
 It is going to be an interesting US Open, I tell you that.  Again, it's something different.  I think we're going to see quite a few surprises this year.
 Q. This year your visit to New York is going to be very different to previous years.  How have you adjusted to life in the bubble?  What has surprised you most about the experience so far?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   It is difficult at first.  You're not able to go anywhere except your hotel room.  You keep going back and forth from your hotel room and on the site.  I think it's difficult not to be able to mix it up a little bit, go somewhere else, go to a nice restaurant with your team, go explore the city a little bit.  That daily routine, that daily repetition makes it difficult.
 At the same time it's for the safety of everyone.  I don't feel like it's unfair to me because everyone has to undergo all of this.  So that gives me in a way a different approach towards my tennis, that gives me an opportunity to focus more on my tennis and less of what's happening outside of it, which is great.
 I practice a lot.  Gives me an opportunity to practice a lot, discover myself more being out on the court, love my sport even more, appreciate my sport more.
 Q. A question about life in the bubble.  What is the thing you miss the most about your usual routine you have at tournaments?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   I guess not having to wear my mask, I guess.  It gets difficult sometimes.
 What's different from now?  Again, having more freedom of going places, elsewhere, than your hotel room.  It kind of reminds me of some games I used to play when I was younger, where you have the bubble, you're not allowed to go outside of it.
 Well, I guess hanging out with friends, with people that I know.  Again, going to a nice restaurant to eat, going for a nice walk.
 Q. In terms of the work routine, like practice, matches.
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   No, it hasn't really changed much.  We're still allowed to practice same amount than we did before.  I guess now it's kind of, like, different.  We are all on our own.  There are no people that come and watch us practice.  It's more chilled, I would say.  It gives you in a way more of a concentrated mindset I guess because you're playing for yourself, you're not playing for anyone else.
 At the same time my team, I brought three members instead of five that I usually bring, so that's a bit of a difference that there is now.  Pretty much that is it.  I can't think of anything else.
 It's actually not that bad.  I won't lie to you.  It's not that bad because it's quiet, you can just concentrate on your daily routines without having any distractions.
 Q. You talked about being excited to see other competitors and relieved to be competing again.  Was there a point when you were worried there would not be any tournament play in 2020 because of the pandemic?  There are people who didn't come.  Are you at all worried about the virus and the possibility of getting sick?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   I was worried about the virus at first.  Despite all of the regulations that US Open set from early on, I still felt it could be unsecure to travel to the U.S.  So far it has been proven wrong of what I initially thought.
 At the same time I personally didn't think there are going to be any tournaments this year.  I found it very difficult due to the crisis that we are facing right now.  For me, tennis was the least important thing at that moment.  Just being able to spend time with your family, not having any chances of spreading the virus if you're positive, of course, yeah, it shouldn't have been this way.
 Well, I thought, again, tennis was not number one priority at that moment.  After I spoke to most of the ATP players, after that conversation and everything, I found it secure and safe to travel to the U.S. and that's why I did so.  Plus I miss competing a lot.  I felt like if they think it's safe for us to play, I should just go and try it out.  They know better than I do.
 Sorry for overcomplicating it (smiling).
 THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT