AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2020
Stefanos Tsitsipas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Must be a pleasing win, particularly the first set.  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Yeah, I did everything right. I was doing very well, which helped with those three breaks in the first set. I found myself in my comfort zone, seemed to be executing my plan very well.   
I felt comfortable and confident from the very beginning. I think also my concentration levels were there at all times. I was very close to get a break in the second set to have a chance to go up 3-Love, but it didn't happen.   
I think for me it's a learning experience. Even that match, there's a lot for me to learn and move on.   
 Q.  What was happening with his fingers, tape and bleeding?  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: I don't know. I didn't check.   
 Q.  The Grand Slam debuts are often stressful for players like you. You made an emphatic start. Do you feel relieved?  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Yeah, it might be a bit of tension when you start a Grand Slam. You never know what to expect, in what kind of form the players are.   
It is kind of a relief. I felt good on the court today. I felt like my game was there. I'm happy to be in the next round. I hope I can increase my level, play better.   
 Q.  You reached the semifinals here last year. Are you hoping to better that and maybe go all the way?  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Yeah, I mean, that's always something you wish for.   
 Q.  Do you think you're playing better now?  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: I definitely feel like I'm more experienced now. Last year I did feel more as a kid who was trying to get confidence by doing certain things on the court.   
Now I feel like I'm more mature and more conserved in my thinking. I also think what I feel now compared to before, I'm just very sure with myself.   
I don't really doubt myself that much.   
 Q.  There were many comments during the game and after the game about the attitudes of some members of the audience. You did a comment with Jim after the game. What do you think was your opinion about this extreme expression of love to you?  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Of love (laughter)?   
 Q.  Admiration.  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Two kind of supports you can get in a match. One can be turned against the opponent you are facing. One is the really good, great, non-explicit support that you get towards you (smiling).   
I mean, I don't know. I really like they come and support me because that gives me a lot of positives in my game. I don't really know why they want to go the extra mile some of the times.   
I don't know. If I would be an opponent -- I mean, I do understand he doesn't understand what's happening out there and what the chants are. But I think also, from their side, they should be a little bit more respectful to the opponents. That's all. Nothing else.   
I mean, they can do what they're doing but probably with more respect.   
 Q.  Because you understand all the Greek, is it ever distracting to you when they chant something that surprises you?  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: A little bit, yeah. It's kind of, I would describe it as a football field self-expression? No. I mean, attitude, sorry, attitude, which doesn't really belong in tennis. It should stay in football, not in the tennis court.   
 Q.  You had a great run here last year. You say you're more experienced. Do you look back now and think you were not ready last year?  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Last year?   
 Q.  Yes.  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Yeah, I wasn't ready to win it last year because Nadal was much better than me that day. He deserved to go through.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT