AUSTRALIAN OPEN
February 19, 2021
Stefanos Tsitsipas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  D. MEDVEDEV/S. Tsitsipas
 6-4, 6-2, 7-5
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. Bad luck.  You were both undefeated between ATP Cup and here.  What made Daniil so tough to beat tonight?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   I really don't have anything to say on that.  I mean, everyone saw what just happened out there.  I'm the last person you should be asking this.  I was just focused on my game, and he put out his show.  He became Daniil Medvedev for three sets in a row.
 Q. That little bit of a comeback in the third set, how much did that sort of try and lift you, and the crowd got going and then you came back again.  Can you just talk about that section of the match, please.
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   It didn't really matter.  Up to this point, even if I would have been doing well, I don't think I would have had any energy to get back in the match.  It was all in the first two sets.
 Q. Do you have any sense of what might happen on Sunday with these two players?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   I wouldn't be surprised to see Daniil win the tournament.  But, you know, it's a strange scenario.  I played Rafa here two years ago.  I found his performance against me that day phenomenal.  I was 100% sure he was gonna win the tournament.  And I ended up being wrong.
 Who knows?  I don't know.  Like, Djokovic is playing well too.  Look, I'm not a betting website.  I don't know what to say.  Might be Medvedev, would be good for him, good for tennis.
 Q. The first two games you said that's where the whole game was kind of determined.  How did you feel going into the game?  Did you feel like you had enough recovery after playing Rafa?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   Well, I'm feeling good, so it doesn't really matter.  I want to play a tournament next week if that's possible.  I want to keep the rhythm going.  Even if my body is not 100%, I just want to enjoy playing tennis.
 Q. You just say your body is not 100%.  Can you explain what issues there possibly are?  And how long would a result like this take for you to get over?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   Well, life is life, you know.  It's not always going to be perfect and however you want it to be.
 My body is feeling okay.  I don't know.  I'm just like -- he played really well.
 Q. He was serving so well, certainly through the middle of the third set.  When you're facing someone who is serving like that, hitting their targets, and high speed, what do you try and do?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   Let me tell you that he's a player who has unlocked pretty much everything in the game.  It's like he's reading the game really well.
 He has this amazing serve which I would describe close to John Isner's serve.  And then he has amazing baseline which makes it extremely difficult.  So even if you return the serve, you don't guarantee that you're going to win the point.  You have to really work hard for it.
 It's difficult.  Obviously it's not meant to be easy, otherwise, you know, he would be stuck at the futures level and not here.  So he makes it very difficult, and I'm sure all the hard work that he has been putting and the hours on the court have benefited a lot.  He tricks you.  You know, he plays the game really smart.  It's really interesting to see that.
 Q. Your third Grand Slam semifinal.  I know it's obviously brief since you have come off the court.  What have you learned from the three semifinals now that you've played at this sort of level?  What are you going to take away from your experiences?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   Win a semifinal finally?  I have been waiting for that.  I have learned a lot.  Had a lot of learning experience from those three matches that I did.
 I don't know.  It's a shame.  You know, you come so close, you work so hard, and everyone is dreaming of a Grand Slam victory.  I mean, you don't think of it when you play the first week or the second week.  As closer you reach towards the end, you're overwhelmed with many different thoughts.  Your aspirations and your dreams suddenly like are close to become a reality.
 I don't know.  It might for him not be the same, but for me it means the world to be where I am.  Playing in a semifinal is a difficult thing.  I just need to find a way to get there and just be in the same state of mind.  I've proven that I have the level to beat these players.  It's not that I haven't, but as Stan says, "Ever tried, ever failed, no matter, try again...fail better."  So let's hope for something better next time.  I really hope it comes.
 Q. You played some stellar matches across the tournament so far up until now.  Disappointed obviously at the moment.  What are some of the positives that you can take out of the last 12 days?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   I created some amazing memories during that period.  Had a very nice stay in Australia.  Despite all the downsides on, you know, having to stay 14 days in the room, and few other things, generally speaking, it was a hell of a trip here in Australia.  And personally I'd like to thank everyone for putting out such an amazing event and show for the players.  Not only for the players, but for all the agents, coaches, and crew that came to be part of this tournament and to represent the players.
 So Australia has been welcoming me with their arms open, and I love it here.  I feel like it's home.  I feel blessed when I'm playing here.  I feel like everything can only be seen from the bright side, and people are beautiful.  It's a really nice place to play tennis.
 I'll miss it, for sure.
 Q. Obviously Dominic Thiem won the US Open title, but what would it mean for men's tennis if Daniil could win on Sunday?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   I don't know.  You should ask him that question (smiling).  I don't know.  Is tennis big in Russia?  I don't know.  I mean, for my country it would mean a lot.
 If I was in his place, I would love to, you know, -- obviously I'm doing it for myself, but it's a big thing also to be able to represent my country under this circumstance and be able to leave away with the trophy.  It's a huge thing.
 Q. Sorry, I said men's tennis, not Russian tennis.
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   Men's tennis?  Men's tennis?  Sorry, sorry.
 Why not?  I mean, see Rafa, Novak, Roger in the Grand Slam victories, so, you know, spice it up a little bit, change the name list.  Wouldn't be bad.
 Q. After the games you played against Thanasi Kokkinakis and Rafael Nadal, would you consider that this Grand Slam was your best?
 STEFANOS TSITSIPAS:   Every single Grand Slam is different.  I really enjoyed my run at the French Open.  I was able to not waste too much of my energy on the court, and it was a beautiful, beautiful two weeks that I had in Paris.  Being able to play so flawless and be flamboyant on the court, it felt amazing.
 I would probably say the Roland Garros run was something stellar and it's something that I really want to recreate if possible to be able to play at such high intensity and with so much passion on the court.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT