NITTO ATP FINALS
November 13, 2019
Stefanos Tsitsipas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. TSITSIPAS/A. Zverev   
6-3, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Making the semifinal on your debut is quite an achievement. Can you just put into words what it feels like?  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Well, I believe I had a good performance today, which is very satisfying to know, that no sign of any nerves or feeling pretty good on the court.   
It was a good performance. It's really good to know that I'll be playing in the semifinals, but I've got to concentrate, keep going the way I have been doing things the last couple of days.   
My last encounter in groups against Rafa, which I am aware of that he's a difficult opponent to face. I'm sure this match is going to mean a lot to him for a chance for him to make it to the semifinals, as well.   
So I'm going to give it my all. I'm going to try to give my soul, and I think it's also a very good challenge for me in order to prepare for more difficult matches in the semifinals and the finals potentially, so this match is going to give me a lot. It's going to educate me, and I'm going to try to get and absorb as much as I can from that.   
 Q.  Are you good in arithmetic? Do you know what has to happen if you want to become No. 1 in your group or if you...  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Me No. 1?   
 Q.  Yeah, if you want to be first in your group. And do you realize that maybe Nadal and the loser between Federer and Djokovic will not be on Saturday in the semifinal? In that case, if you could call the change of the guards? Two of the top three players could be out of the semifinals. Is that complicated?  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Wow. Okay. No. (Laughter.)   
Well, let's get things organized a little bit. So math wasn't my favorite subject at school. I struggled. I'll be honest. Geography is my favorite one. I like traveling. I like all the, you know, learning about different...anyway.   
 Q.  You can answer the second question if you prefer.  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Second question? That's more difficult. Let's just stick to the first one. So many names, so many -- I honestly don't mind if I play on Saturday or Sunday or Monday. It's going to be more days for me for preparation.   
The No. 1 on my group, you said? Right? I thought in the world. I thought for a moment there is a chance for me. I said, Okay, that's not bad. It's pretty good (smiling). But no.   
You got me excited for a little bit. I won't lie.   
Well, to end No. 1, I have to -- one more match for me remaining in the group, and if I do well I think I deserve to be No. 1 in my group.   
So that's it. That's it. As simple as that, as simple as that.   
 Q.  I have always wanted to ask you this question, because sometimes I comment on your matches and you're a very driven individual. But sometimes when you play Russian players, for instance...  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Russian?   
 Q.  Yeah. Looks like you have this extra motivation. It's just a perception. Is there? Or is it because they are players from the same age bracket, or extra bit of rivalry there?  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Well, for me, I always find an extra motivation, an extra reason to play well against the top guys. I consider Sascha also being of this part of this elite group.   
He has done very well over the years. He has, in a way, inspired me to step it up and be part of the top 10. So in a way I actually owe him a lot. He plays good tennis. Also playing Rafa, Roger, Novak, Andy -- I haven't played Andy, but I think there is plenty to learn from them.   
You know, you have been watching them on TV. You have always wanted to be part of that. So for you, when you step out on the court and you just -- it's a visual. When you see something that you have been dreaming of, I think there is always a spark, kind of an extra reason to play.   
I don't know if it's so much psychological or mental. It's kind of like when you're in survival mode. You're more alert. You're more ready for things, if that explains it.   
 Q.  In his last press conference, Zverev told that some players try to get to his forehand to break him a bit in terms of the match. I wondered if this also was the plan today. And second, I wonder how you tried to read his serve so well tonight.  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: No, that was not part of the plan. And, yeah, he serves actually pretty fast, one of the fastest on the tour.   
Just small backswing and small check and be ready to cover the sides. As simple as that. Nothing -- no secret or anything like that.   
 Q.  I don't want to crash your party. I watched you practicing today. Is everything okay with your foot?  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Well, I had to make a local anesthetic in the foot, because it was very painful, and also had to do an injection. I think last time I did an injection was once in my life.   
I prefer -- I really didn't want to talk about it, but that's how things were today.   
 Q.  Did I see well or not, I see good handshake with you and Sascha end of the game. He saluted you. Seems your relationship after Laver Cup is getting better and better. Does Laver Cup help you come closer? Be motivating for a team game?  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: For sure. I get to know him better. He got to know me better. I think Laver Cup brought us together as a union, give us opportunity to play together and not separately.   
Also, the lunch and dinners we had together, we had a lot of fun with Roger, Rafa, Fabio, Dominic, the whole team, Roberto, as well, who was alternate. We had a fantastic together. I learned a lot from all of them. I don't know, they learned from me, too. I guess.   
I can tell you Laver Cup was -- if you ask me what's my favorite tournament of the year, Laver Cup for sure. Because I didn't learn as much in a tournament as in Laver Cup, and I'm really grateful that they made such an event, because it's the best thing for our game. I believe we should have more tournaments like this.   
 Q.  You finally beat Medvedev and today you played amazing. How big a boost was it momentum-wise and confidence-wise when you beat a player you really, really want to beat?  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: It's very fulfilling and satisfying. It's a big relief when you go through so much pressure and so much will and trying to put yourself into a, like, nirvanic concentration mode.   
It's not as easy as people think it is. It's something that fulfills you when you are able to beat players like this and give your best, give your all.   
These wins mean more than others, and it's a good thing to have in your portfolio, let's say. It counts.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT