NITTO ATP FINALS
November 11, 2019
Stefanos Tsitsipas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. TSITSIPAS/D. Medvedev   
7-6, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Obviously a relief to you to break that losing streak against him. I know you had a sort of testy relationship between the two of you previously. Does beating him mean extra because of those sort of tensions that you have had between you?  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: It means more than extra. It's a victory that I craved for a long time now, and it's great that I came in at this moment.   
He's a tough player. He's a very difficult player to face. He's not giving you an easy time when you're out on the court. So it definitely means a lot.   
I knew that I had to work very hard and had to be very much into the match, concentrated, focused, aware of every situation that I was facing.   
I'm proud that I brought myself in the situation today that I proved that I was better today. It's also a challenge to keep doing the same work and putting the same effort the next time I'm going to face him. I will know he will be much more prepared and much more aware of what he has to do against me next time.   
We are going to play each other many more times.   
 Q.  Why don't you like Medvedev?  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: That's a strong statement (smiling). I never said I don't like him. What makes you think I don't like him?   
 Q.  You just don't seem to have the best of relationships.  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Yeah.   
 Q.  Stuff in Miami, watching that postmatch...  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: I'd really love to talk about that situation that happened in Miami. I was playing my match. I think it was, I'm not sure, 3-2 or 4-2 in the third set, and I did hit a let during the rally that we played. Three more shots took place after that net that I hit.   
I did pass him -- well, I did pass him after he approached to the net, and for some reason he wanted an apology from me, which I completely forgot that there was a net during that rally because I was so much focused to my game, into getting that point over, winning that point.   
So he start looking at me, telling me to apologize for what I just did. It was Love-40. Triple break point for me to go back into the match. And after that, I think I didn't win a single game. He did get into my head, and I was very frustrated that it did go this way.   
He start telling me that I should apologize, that what I do is unsportsmanlike. I tried not to pay attention, because I knew that it was something that he wanted something intentional, something that he wanted to pass to me. Somehow it did affect me.   
I did got pissed and said what I said, which I do regret, but at the time I was very frustrated that things happened this way.   
I completely forgot about the past. I mean, our chemistry definitely isn't the best that you can find on the tour. It just happens with people that it's not that you can just like everyone.   
It's not that I hate him. I guess -- yeah, as he said, we will not go to dinner together, so...   
I respect him, for sure. That's because he has been -- he had a long way to come where he is right now. He's a Grand Slam finalist, so that takes a lot of respect from me to him.   
 Q.  You obviously wanted to win very badly today. Did that make it more difficult because of what it meant to you?  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Yeah, it did. You know, if it won't happen today, it would probably happen next time. I knew that he had probably the confidence from the previous battles that we faced each other.   
I knew that I was in good shape and in good form. I learned from my previous mistakes in Shanghai. I remember coming out of my match in Shanghai against him and saying to my coach that things are going to be different next time. And they did prove to be different.   
So that makes me very happy that I committed to what I said.   
 Q.  I just want to have a quick word on Chris Kermode. He's leaving as ATP president in the next couple of weeks. What kind of legacy do you feel he's left the men's game for you?  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Me and Chris share a very good relationship. I know him quite well. So he will be definitely missed. He's someone that put a lot of dedication and work into bringing ATP, the tour itself, to its best.   
So I only see Chris as something as a positive impact in our game, and I really wish he could be in this position much longer, but unfortunately he will be leaving soon, as I found out a few months ago.   
So it's unfortunate. What can you do?   
 Q.  You said you first watched this event in 2010 or some years ago, anyway. Could you describe what you've done over the last nine years to get to this point? Was that match as good as you pictured it?  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Was it in 2010 when this event first took...   
 Q.  2009.  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: 2009? The question was how well I imagined it today?   
 Q.  What have you done to get to this point? Because you have wanted to play here for so long. Was that win as good as you probably dreamt about playing here?  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: It was actually even better than I dreamt of it (smiling).   
Well, I knew that it definitely wouldn't be easy to go in there and win 6-2, 6-1, that's for sure, or any other score.   
Things evolved the way they did during the match. I stayed very calm, never complained, had nothing to be scared of, honestly. I played aggressive.   
I could have broken him more times, but got a bit unlucky, so it's a match that -- it's a good start into Nitto Finals this way.   
I felt very relaxed today. I don't know why. Just the importance of me standing on this court just relaxes me, for some reason. I feel really comfortable, and I felt like I had nothing to be afraid of.   
Just being on that court is already a big excitement, a big joy. It's something that I dreamt always, and it does feel very special.   
 Q.  You have both your father and Patrick here in your coaching team. How does that work together? What does each of them bring to the arrangement?  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: The best of the best (smiling). I do appreciate Patrick a lot. I do believe he's a great coach.   
I don't know if other people think the same for him, but I have worked with him quite a while, and the things that, the way that he sees tennis, the perspective and the imagination that he carries behind him, it's really, really unique.   
He has a lot of experience in the field of tennis, and I would say he had a bit of an influence today in my performance. He does discuss with my father. I try to seek and ask for advice from him whenever I feel like something's not working or I might change something that might benefit me a bit more.   
What I really like about Patrick and my dad, I mean, they are two different personalities. My dad is a bit more talkative. He, I don't know, he's a bit more worried about me than Patrick. Patrick is a very easy-going guy, very gentle, very nice. Says things right on point. Doesn't overtalk. Says a few things which usually seem to work. Has a really good eye, really good eye.   
 Q.  You have obviously played the big 3 this year. You've beaten them all: Roger Federer, Novak Djokovic, and Rafa Nadal. Of them all, which have you found personally the toughest to play against?  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: I would go for most players' answer: Rafa Nadal. That's what everybody says. I totally agree with that.   
 Q.  Why is that for you?  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Well, first of all, the intensity, his fighting spirit, his speed, movement on the court. He covers much court when you play against him.   
So it's not very easy to hit winners or play aggressive shots that are going to lead to more defensive balls.   
I just think mostly his fighting spirit and that he believes in himself so much when he's out on the court. He has one of the best forehands in the game, too.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT