ROLEX SHANGHAI MASTERS
October 12, 2019
Stefanos Tsitsipas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. MEDVEDEV/S. Tsitsipas   
7-6, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  When you get that break back in the second set at 5-All, what do you think happens then on your service game?  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: I have to hold and I have to go up 6-5, and I didn't. So that's what I was thinking.   
 Q.  Do you feel there was anything different about playing against Medvedev today as opposed to the last four times you played against him?  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Not really. Same vibes (smiling). Same thing all over again. There's just -- there is no lack of surprise. There's nothing. It's the same thing repeated all over again.   
 Q.  From the outside it looks like with Daniil it's not like, you know, such an intimidating game like maybe yours or somebody else. How is it playing him?  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: How?   
 Q.  How is it playing him?  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Well, I don't mean to be rude at all, actually, at all, but it's just boring. It's boring. It's so boring that -- I don't know.   
I hate myself, first of all, for putting myself into that kind of situation where I have to play in his own terms and not in my terms. And that's kind of, I don't know, reminding me my childhood years when I was 12 years old playing inside the court.   
So he has a huge serve, and if you manage to get it back, it's just countless balls inside the court, which you have, the only way you have to, you can do is hit as hard as you can side to side, be accurate, and make him move.   
Otherwise you can just play it back to him and play it again and play it again. It just keeps coming back, keeps coming back.   
I really don't know. It's another day at the office (smiling).   
 Q.  That's a player you're going to have to face many and many times in years to come in big matches. When it's over and over again the same thing, what do you think you should do? What do you wish you would have done today that may be able to turn this around? Is it a more mental thing, or is it that you need to analyze the game or change everything, or...  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: To be honest, I really felt good today and I felt like I could win this match. I felt good, actually. I didn't feel bad.   
I was thinking during the match that let's say things don't go the best way, but I'm sure I can pull out something good today. But today I actually felt the most comfortable among the other times that I played against him.   
I don't know if I'm going to be able to beat him the next time or the time after that one, but I know there's going to be a time where I'm going to find opportunities and beat him. I don't know when it's going to come. Probably two, three, four, five, six years' time, I don't know, but it's going to come at some point. The chance of opportunity will be somewhere there. As you saw today, it was very close in tiebreak.   
Yeah, my mind was not -- like, it was 5-All, I missed a stupid forehand. I would also say that some technical things that I have been changing recently, so that was mostly related to that. The forehand mistake, which I'm not used to miss.   
So I should concentrate less on the technical side and leave that on the side during the match and be aware more of what's in front of me and not think technically too much.   
It was very close, and then -- I don't know. Just second serve was a bit, you know -- I think once I get the first set from him, chances of beating him are getting higher, because he will just keep doing the same thing. He won't change really much.   
For me, in order to beat him, I just need to get the first set. That's it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT