LAVER CUP
September 20, 2019
Stefanos Tsitsipas
Thomas Enqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. TSITSIPAS/T. Fritz
6-2, 1-6, 10-7
Team Europe - 2
Team World - 1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Stefanos, congratulations on your first win at Laver Cup. Did you think about changing your shoes when you had the problem at 2-2? What's it going to take for somebody in the world to fix your shoes for once?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Well, I don't know what I was thinking, but I have done it in the past in crucial moments and I have lost the tempo and momentum. So I decided to keep going, despite the difficulties that I had with my shoes at that point.
And I don't know. Probably that would react badly. Most of the people think I did it on purpose, like, I don't know. They find it wrong. But anyway, doesn't matter what people think. Let's face reality.
I kept playing. It was quite difficult, because I could lose my shoe at any point of the match. Thank God I didn't.
I think things went well and I managed to close the match. Well, at one foot. I'm joking (smiling).
Q. (Question off microphone.)
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Yeah, I have been discussing this with my sponsor, and something exciting is coming next year. I cannot tell you (smiling).
Q. There was a bit of a topsy-turvy match. Give us your thoughts on how it played out.
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: I started very well, returning very well, playing deep. Didn't give him much pace to play with. Serving quite well. Easy holds on my serve.
Then, as the match proceeded, I don't know why, but he loosened up. I mean, obviously he was losing. He had nothing to lose.
I kind of stopped feeling the same with my serve, I think. My serve was very important at that moment of the match. I could get away with easy points and didn't have to rally much.
And once he got me into the rallies, he took charge. He kept pressing me. I don't remember losing a set that easy in a long time, but, yeah, the super-tiebreak went quite well. I fought hard and I tried things, you know, with the advice of Federer and Nadal. They gave me couple of advices that I think helped me get the win. And obviously Thomas, come on.
Q. This is a different competition. Your first time playing it. How do you feel about the competition, about being with all these famous players and captains? What do you think?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Well, I don't think yet. We just have started. There is nothing to think until now.
The atmosphere is great. I have legends in my team supporting me and giving me all their attention. So it's working well so far.
Yeah, it's important to be surrounded by positive people and people that know about tennis. I really like the competition so far. I think I could say it's one of my favorites this year, together with Davis Cup. It's always nice playing team competitions that are -- I mean, tennis is a sport that's individual, and that gives it a little bit of a different perspective. So I like it so far.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT