HUAJIN SECURITIES ZHUHAI CHAMPIONSHIPS
September 25, 2019
Stefanos Tsitsipas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Welcome to Zhuhai. It's a long trip from Geneva. How do you feel and what's your first impression about the condition of the court here?  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Yeah, it was a long trip, I feel okay, I could feel better, but I feel all right. I really like the hotel we're staying in though, so the site is also really nice.   
 Q.  You've just spent quite a lot of time with Rafa Nadal and Roger Federer. What was that like spending time with those two legends of the game and what did you learn from them?  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: I learned a lot about their personalities and who they are and quite interesting conversations with them, which I wouldn't share out in the public (smiling). Nice guys all of them, very nice. Great team format and an opportunity for me to learn from them, going out for dinner, spending as much time as we can with each other, exchanging tactics, opinions. I left from Geneva with really nice -- whatever happens in Geneva stays in Geneva (smiling).   
 Q.  You are No. 6 on the ranking. So what has that meant for you to qualify?  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: No. 6? Oh, yeah?   
 Q.  Yes.  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Okay.   
 Q.  So what would that mean for you to qualify for the ATP final?  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Well, let's start first I need to do well to qualify. It would mean a lot of things to me if I could qualify. A lot of things would happen if I would qualify, besides playing in the finals, also other things. So I really hope I make it.   
 Q.  A little off topic but when you walk onto the court for a match or practice what do you take with you, like in your bag?  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: What do you mean? Like?   
 Q.  What's in your tennis bag, whether it's extra shoes or so on?  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: I also have my over grips in my bag, swings, elastic bands, exercise bands, clothes to change. In my other smaller bag I have, I always, I also have a lucky figure with me that I carry. Racquets, obviously. What else do I carry? And my fitness program. Not much, really.   
 Q.  What's the one figure that you have?  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Actually it's Chinese. I already have it a year with me and I have it on the outside of, on the exterior of my bag, attached to my bag, and I think it says my name on it. I received this present, I believe either last year in Shanghai or in Shenzhen, I don't remember.   
 Q.  Just now I saw you practicing on court and you're very patient after practice with the fans and they're so excited to see you. So would you like to say something to them to let them come on site to support you?  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Well, of course I do. Just to let them know that as much of them come, as much they're going to get back from that. My best performance, my best behavior, attitude on the court and the best version of Stefanos, so I would appreciate it if this would spread out and have a lot of tennis fans come out to the center court to back me up.   
 Q.  You are really an expert about social media.  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Not any more.   
 Q.  So we know that you are a big fan of social media and you have done a lot of things and Instagrams and we also know that you have cancelled your social media accounts, so how could you have uploaded the videos that you have taken here in Zhuhai?  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Well that doesn't mean -- I have kept my YouTube channel and my WhatsApp open, that's the only apps that I have on my phone. I still have my YouTube. Instagram, Facebook page, Twitter, it's all handled by my agency and, yeah, I'm spending as much, as less time as possible on all these platforms because it, simply because they make me feel better. And YouTube is actually, I put most of my focus, if I have to share something, I do it on YouTube. So I don't consider that much YouTube social media platform, although it belongs there, because you don't have other people posting stuff, saying their opinions about your kind of -- there's not much contact between you and the rest of the people out there, except the comment section which it is your choice if you want to watch what they have to say or not. So YouTube is the only app that I have that belongs to social media, that I have full control of.   
 Q.  They were asking you about London and what that would mean to you. At the beginning of the year was that one of your big goals and if I would have told you you would be where you are now would you have been happy with that position?  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: I haven't thought of it much. My goal was to make it to London and it is still, it still is to make it to London. But if you would have told me that I'm No. 6 in the race, not much to say, I mean, yeah, obviously I would be happy to know that I would be in that position. But I have plenty of things to prove until then. I didn't really have great results since, when was that, middle of August, didn't do much. Actually beginning of August I didn't do much. I hope to make a few changes and adapt to the new changes that I've made in my game in order to perform better and not be so tight and so close with the London entry.   
 Q.  What are the changes in particular? Is it just, is there anything in particular you're talking about?  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Technical changes and micro-adjustments that might be invisible but it's also away of thinking on the court.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT