CITI OPEN
August 1, 2019
Stefanos Tsitsipas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. TSITSIPAS/J. Thompson
6-3, 7-6
Q. It looked like it was a little bit frustrating for you out there.  You were kind of looking at your dad and your mom a lot.  What was the source of that frustration?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: I mean, there was a lot of tension in the match, and it was very close.  I kept doing silly mistakes at some points in the tiebreak and I was not happy about it, so that was it.
Q. There was one point where you threw your racquet and you seemed to fix your shoelace; is that correct?  And you had to switch your racquet afterwards.  Was that more of a stop the momentum because you were down a double break, or was that just a moment in time where you just had to change your shoe?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: I just had to change my shoe.  That's it.
Q. So this is going to seem maybe like a funny question, but this tournament takes place in a national park, as maybe you know.  When you're playing in the stadium court, could you see the sunset?  I'm just wondering if you could see the sunset at any time or the sky.  Do you look --
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: I saw the sky.  I saw the pink.
Q. I'm just curious if you're aware of the environment you're in because you do a lot of photography and stuff like that, and this is sort of a unique setting because of the park.
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: I thought about it during the match that -- just before the sun sets, I could see the colors in the sky, and I was -- yeah.  It was beautiful.  For a second I thought about my photography.
Q. You're here with I think your younger brother and sister, right?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: My little sister.
Q. And your parents are here --
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: And my mother.
Q. I'm curious with the bigger crew, if the family is doing anything to enjoy Washington more, any of the various tourist things you can do here.
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: I don't know, I didn't ask them.  So far they've been playing ping-pong all day.  (Laughter).
Q. Tell me please last year, it was quite good for you here in Washington, so this year what do you think about your chances of the title and who can be your main rival from those who remain still in the draw?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Everyone is a pretty serious rival.  I can't really tell you.  I mean, everybody -- everyone plays tennis here, and each match is a new challenge for me.  There are plenty of good players in this draw.
Q. I've heard you speak very eloquently about learning the game on clay and all that's required on clay, and I'm wondering, in your case, what parts of your game translate best to a hard court?  What has taken getting used to?  What is your comfort level at the moment on hard court?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: I would say my -- turning defense into offense and opening the court with my strokes -- well, I mean, that doesn't really -- it's not the best thing for hard, but sometimes I try to play sharp, close to the corners so I can come in, take the ball, wait for the ball that's going to come shorter, and then like this, I can attack and come to the net.  And I think my serve is my biggest weapon at the moment.
Q. With a win in your next match, you would reach your career high ranking of 5.  What are your thoughts on your big rise this year and what's led to that?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: What's my what?
Q. You would reach your career high ranking of No. 5 tomorrow if you win.  What do you think has led to your meteoric rise this year?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Well, I think winning matches that I have to win.  Like for example, I knew that I would end at top 10 when I played Gael Monfils in Dubai this year.  It wasn't easy for me, but it was one of the best matches I've played this year.  Yeah, the key was to overcome myself and to just be extremely focused on every single match.
Q. You described on the Tennis Channel when you were talking about the break points that you weren't able to convert tonight, you wish you had played them smarter or with more wisdom.  What do you mean by that?  Do you mean shot placement or aggressiveness?  Could you just elaborate on that a little bit?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Well, I made a lot of unforced errors in those break points, and getting to those break points, I played fantastic.  I played very brave and very smart, and suddenly I start thinking about it a bit too much, and that's what happens.  I make mistakes that there's no reason for me to make, way too early in the point.  I don't make my opponent play.  I don't try to identify the necessary occasion to come in, to just press in general.  Just a bit lost sometimes.
Q. And how often are both parents and your sister, do they travel with you?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Quite often.  Half of the time.
Q. You play Benoit Paire next.  I'm curious what you think of his game.  And also, you've experimented with facial hair during various times this year.  I'm curious if you've ever asked him for advice because he has a very famous beard and a beard sponsor and things like that.
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: He has -- yeah.  It fits him pretty well.  He's a very dangerous player.  I mean, he has an unbelievable backhand.  His serve can be very damaging.  I just have to be careful.  He's very unpredictable.  He plays with a lot of fierce, and you never really know what to expect from him.  Also emotion and also the way he is on the court.  It's going to be a tricky one.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT