ROLAND GARROS
June 2, 2019
Stefanos Tsitsipas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. WAWRINKA/S. Tsitsipas
7-6, 5-7, 6-4, 3-6, 8-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. This is one of those matches where, as a person watching it, I think as the fans, it's so difficult to have a winner and a loser.  You really left it all out there.  I wanted to ask you about the last point of the match.  Do you still believe that that particular point, which ended the match, was in?  And do you believe that there, for clay court tournaments at Grand Slams, ought to be Hawk-Eye available for deciding matches in the way that this one needed to be decided today?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Yes, yes, it was in.  And, yes, we should.
Q. Why do you think that Hawk-Eye should be used at Grand Slams, including Roland Garros?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: I just think it's more fair.
Q. I'm sure you're obviously exhausted right now.  Could you just tell us how you do feel?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: No, sorry.
Q. Can you describe how you're feeling right now, both physically and emotionally?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: I feel exhausted.  I don't know.  Never experienced something like this in my life.  I feel very disappointed at the end.
Long time that -- long time since I cried after a match, so emotionally wasn't easy to handle.  I will try to learn from it as much as I can.
Q. You're not proud about the quality of the game?  Good game?  A lot of memories of everybody?  It was a huge fight?  You're still very more impacted by the defeat than all this extraordinary game?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: I was so close, so close.  I give him room to do whatever he likes, all those break points.  So many break points.  So many.  Didn't play.  I was expecting someone else to play it for me.  I didn't play.
Q. You said you will learn from today's experience.  I know it is difficult for you right now, but when you look at the success that you enjoyed in the early rounds here this year, what did you learn from your wins?  What are you hoping to learn from today's match?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: I have no idea.  My mind is so empty right now.  I cannot even think, so I don't know.
Q. Can you kind of describe just what it is like to play for five hours-plus at such a high level and just mentally in the middle of that how you kind of stay focused?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Worse thing in tennis.  It's the worst feeling ever.  Especially when you lose.  You don't want to be in my place.
Q. Of course you're disappointed after enormous struggle, and you said it's the worst to lose in five sets, but would you agree that it's best to win in five sets?  So the five-set matches would still be appealing?  I mean, it's hard to say now when you lost, but just in perspective, that what makes the essence of the game, that what makes us so, you know, inspired, you know.
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: I agree.  Shouldn't change anything.  It's fine the way it is.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT