ROLEX MONTE-CARLO MASTERS
April 17, 2019
Stefanos Tsitsipas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. TSITSIPAS/M. Kukushkin
6-3, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How do you see this Monte-Carlo Masters for the prospectus of your clay court season?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Monte-Carlo is a very important tournament for me.  I have been coming here as a kid, watching all the players play.  Now I get to be part of it.
I'm really happy that I got to make it here, be one of the top seeds.  But there are players out there that want to beat me badly and want the same piece of maybe glory, I would say, that I want.  So it's going to be very difficult to stay concentrated and focused, but once I get there, I think there is nothing that can stop me, because I feel like I can play really good on clay.
I just need to maintain my focus, my concentration, my aggressive mindset when I'm on the court.  If all these are combined, then I have nothing to fear and I have nothing to be afraid of when I'm on the court.
I really hope I can do well here, because first tournament, first big clay court tournament, not everyone is very well prepared for that.  Everyone is fresh but not so much into the game yet, because it has been a long hard court season before the clay court season.  So I'm going to have to take advantage of that.
Q. You feel prepared, right?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Yeah.
Q. What about your next match with Medvedev?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: I have never beaten him before.  We played couple of times.  He has a different game than other players.  He has a good serve, I would say, if he plays with first serve.  It can get really aggressive and frustrating to return.
He's maybe like a baseliner who likes to play a bit behind the baseline.  He's a good defenser for his height.  Likes to make you play, likes to wait for you, has a different pace on the ball than other players.  Very flat shot.
I'm just going to have to adjust to that as fast as possible, as quick as possible, and not basically -- what I did, mistakes that I did in the past, he just gets into my head too much and I don't have to think about it too much.  I just have to play every single shot that comes to me as if there is no other player on the other side of the court.  That's pretty much it.
Q. There has been a lot of talk about the future of tennis within the international tennis organizations, as you well know.  We all know that "politics" in Greece is a dirty word.  Do you see yourself being involved in, let's say, the politics of tennis once the time comes?  Is this something that is of interest to you?  Do you have a keen interest in this?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: I have never considered that as something I can do in the future, but I don't know.  I have no idea.  Maybe I'll be interested in a few years from now, but at the moment, not really.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT