INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 16, 2019
Stefanos Tsitsipas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. TSITSIPAS/F. Fognini   
6-4, 6-3   
(Transcribed from ATP recorded audio.)   
 Q.  Take us through the match.  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: It was very weird.  I never played until now on the ATP Tour two singles matches in one day.   
 Q.  Ever, ever?  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Ever, ever.  That pretty much shows how new I am to this tour, how fresh.   
But I'm glad I passed this test.  It was a difficult test.  Fabio, champion of Monte-Carlo, he really knows how to play on this surface.  He's not just anybody.   
I knew it was going to be a tough battle against him.  I knew he knows how to play these shots.  He's pretty much consistent from the baseline.  He likes to come to net sometimes.  It was kind of tricky.   
I stayed concentrated.  I was very pumped to do well.  I think that helped.  Yeah, really glad with my performance.  Stayed aggressive.  I played well today.  I think that helped a lot.   
 Q.  Tomorrow against Roger Federer, you beat him already this year.  What are you expecting there?  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Roger, I mean, obviously he hasn't played on clay for a long time.  That's one of the first couple of tournaments he played since a long time.  I think obviously he's much more experienced than me.  He played much more matches than me here in Rome in general.  I have nothing to lose.  I want to play a good match, see what I can do against him on clay.  Never practiced against him or played him on clay.   
 Q.  After Madrid, maybe you are the favorite.  
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: He's considered the legend of our sport.  He's very much respected.  I'm pretty sure it's going to be twice more difficult than today.  He likes to serve-and-volley.  He has a lot of variety in his game.  I really don't know what to expect from him.   
I expect he's going to obviously try to take the ball early.  I think with my fighting spirit and mentality, if I'm in the zone tomorrow, comfortable, I think I can do something.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT