ROGERS CUP
August 9, 2018
Stefanos Tsitsipas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. TSITSIPAS/N. Djokovic
6-3, 6-7, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. After losing such a tight second set that you were quite close to winning, it could have been really easy to lose focus.  How did you keep it together so well and stay so calm in the third?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Well, I knew I was playing pretty good today.  So losing the second set, it was tough to deal with.  You know, I had my opportunities and didn't use them.  So, you know, I'm pretty used to that.  I had matches like this in the past where I was close of winning the match and things didn't go my way.  Eventually, I lost the set.
And I remained calm.  I tried few things that I didn't try before, and I played a bit -- I played a little bit more with variety and changed the pace a bit of the ball, played deeper, played smarter.
Broke him early enough to -- yeah, I was serving well.  So that break was everything.  It gave me the win at the end.
And serving, unbelievable.  Returning pretty well here and there during the match.
Yeah, best win of my career.
Q. Just curious to know what the last two weeks have been like for you with all the rain delays.  In Washington last week and this week, matches starting late and starting and stopping and going late into the night.  What's it been like for you and how have you coped and what have you seen from other players?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Well, I understand now how tough it is now for British people to -- but, yeah, I come from a country that has a lot of sun and sunshine.  And this has nothing to do with the question you asked me.
It's not easy.  It's not easy because these rain delays, they basically change the rhythm, the way you're playing.  And sometimes you are in the mode, let's say, of where you're playing good and you feel good and you want to keep it going.
And these rain delays, you know, they're annoying sometimes, but you need to deal with them the right way, even sometimes take advantage of them and use it on your favor.
But it is definitely not easy.  It is definitely not easy.  And the one who is mentally dealing with it better and stays, you know, calmer, I would say, than the other player is usually the one that's going to win at the end because, yeah, he doesn't get upset.  He doesn't, like -- he doesn't get angry of those rain delays.
I had few issues when I was younger.  I was pretty angry when those rain delays would occur, but now I'm handling the situation a bit more mature and better.
So I can say I'm used to that, yeah.
Q. You said in Washington when you lost you were pretty frustrated and you said that was a learning experience.  How much of that experience from that match do you take into this match today?  And then the second part is I noticed you wrote a pretty nice note on the camera at the end of the match for Greece.  Just talk about that and what that means to you.
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Should I start with the learning experience, did you say?
Q. Yeah.
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Yeah, learning.  I learned a lot last week in Washington losing to Alexander.  It was a great run.  It kind of reminded me of the run I had in Barcelona a few months ago.  I felt emotionally connected with the fans and the crowd and the place and the location I was playing.
But that loss matured me.  Made me braver and more experienced, I would say.  So now I'm going to use it in my favor for my next match against him and try to get the most out of it.  Be more clever, I would say, and play the right way and use my chances.
I'm pretty sure I'll have many -- I mean, many, but I'm going to have to use them.
And the prayer for Greece you asked me?
Q. Yes.
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Yeah, I just felt like doing it because my country, the past few weeks, has been through tough times and people died, people are injured.  One of my friends is in the hospital and his family.  So it was not easy for me when I found out, you know.  It's tough.  But that was the least I could do today, yeah.
Q. I'm just wondering if you learned anything about Novak's game when you practiced with him in the past and were you thinking about that when you started the match today?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Yes, I did.  I had troubles in the beginning when we played couple of practice sets with him and tie-breaks.
But now I'm more familiar with his game.  I know a bit better of the patterns that he's using on the court.  So I felt confident.  I felt confident with my game.
And I knew he had some issues in some particular shots in his game, I would say.  So I was waiting and, like, I grabbed him like a bulldog and stuck there and executed -- yeah, I executed my plan.
You know, I knew that at some point he's going to break, and I just patiently waited for this moment and it happened.
Q. Which shots were you waiting for?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Well, should I say it?  No.  I prefer to keep it for me.
Q. At what point in your life do you go from, oh, my God, that's Novak Djokovic on the other side of the net to that's a guy that I can play with and beat?  At what point does that happen?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: In the beginning, I mean, the first practice we had together, I remember that.  It was in Monte Carlo, if I'm not wrong, three years ago.
Yeah, I was super excited to be on the other side of the court and to meet him, like, you know.  I didn't think at all that I'll be facing him in the next three years.  It's unbelievable.
But, you know, the experience, as I said, having the opportunity to practice plenty of times with him, and I wouldn't say read his game, but get used to the way -- the style he uses on the court helped me be confident in this match today and helped me execute my game, my plan.
I was prepared for some certain things he would do on the court.  And as I said, I waited for my opportunities and I got them.
So these practice sessions with him helped me a lot to understand his game.
Q. You called it the best win of your career.  What does it mean for you or signify for you?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: What does it mean what?
Q. What does the win kind of mean for you or what significance does it have for you?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: It has big value for me, this win.  I feel very proud for me, myself, and my country.  I'm putting Greece more deep into the map of tennis.  So I'm pretty sure I'm making my family proud, all of those people that are watching, my coach, my father.
It was a very emotional win.  I didn't feel -- I felt so many -- I mean, I never felt so many emotions after a victory, and kind of specifies the way I played today.  Yeah.
Q. What were you thinking as you served out the match?  I think you hit the big forehand on the third point, but it's always tough to serve out a match against a guy like that?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Yeah, yeah.  I was thinking about it when I was -- at the game I was about, like, to close the match, and I just -- I remained tough.  I didn't crack under pressure.  I was brave.  I played exactly how I had to play at that moment.
My first serve percentage was not the best, the one I expected from myself.  But, yeah, I remained calm.  I remained -- I knew that if I do the right things, then I'll be able to close the match.  So I did that.
Q. I was wondering, knowing now that you can beat a player like Novak Djokovic, does what change your expectations for yourself moving forward?
STEFANOS TSITSIPAS: Yeah, kind of.  I'm the same person.  I remain the same person that I was before, but it kind of gives me the idea of what I'm capable of doing and which players I can -- you know, I'm capable, as I said, of beating.
So it's good.  It's good to have these kind of wins.  I'm getting there.  I'm getting there.  And these opponents make me a better player and a better athlete.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT