CHICAGO FIRE MEDIA CONFERENCE
July 10, 2020
Brandt Bronico
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I don't want to you give away any secrets, but if you could talk about just this tactical preparation and if you guys have to change anything or feel like you have to adjust your tactics, your game model, given the tournament format.
BRANDT BRONICO: I wouldn't say we really have to adjust too much. We have a certain style of play we've been practicing and we would like to implement. So we are just kind of focused on that regardless of the external conditions, like the weather, who we are playing, what group we might be in by Tuesday.
Like I said, we have a style of play that we want to implement, and that's what we are focused on.
Q. Brandt, curious when -- obviously the news, there's been a lot of it over the last week, whether it's Dallas being withdrawn, Nashville, as well, various news. How do you guys as players find out about any of this? Are you seeing it on Twitter like we are? What's the internal communication like, and how is it that happen when there's this kind of news? How do you as a team find out about it?
BRANDT BRONICO: Mainly, I guess, just your like whispers of other players, telling other players, and eventually it get to us. And Twitter; you see a bunch of rumors on Twitter, as well. I guess that's how it kind of get communicated through everything.
We've been very disciplined as a team about avoiding the virus and being very precautious with our hand sanitizing and wearing our masks and kind of staying on our floor. So we are taking the necessary steps and protocols to avoid as much as possible contracting the virus.
Q. Can you kind of go through some of those, like what's a typical week with the protocols been like and how are you guys trying to avoid catching the virus or interacting with maybe former teammates or guys you knew in college or anything like that?
BRANDT BRONICO: Yeah, normal week, we get tested every -- every other day, but I guess besides that, and having to stay on the hotel campus, it's not so much different than regular preseason. Staying in the hotel, I guess we have some more outdoor activities where we can lounge by the pool or play ping-pong or chess. You know, activities like that.
The hotel is pretty big and every team has their own floor, so we can socially distance very easily, and we tend to refrain from hanging out with other teams because -- because of that risk.
So like I said, just staying disciplined, social distancing, sanitizing your hands and wearing your masks and listening to the health professionals that implement these protocols.
Q. Just wondering, you have an 8:00 A.M. game and a night game and another 8:00 A.M. game. How do you keep your body and body clock in the right place for that and make sure you're sleeping enough and eating the right way to deal with some interesting start times?
BRANDT BRONICO: Yeah, our trainers and strength staff are very knowledgeable. They know what we need to do and when we need to do it, so they stay on top of us about that. Also we like to be very disciplined in our diets and also listening to them. We take what they say into consideration and make sure that we do the right steps in staying healthy and being fit and being ready ultimately for all three of those games, whether it's at 8:00 A.M. or 8:00 P.M.
Q. How are you feeling? I know you started the first couple games of the year, but there's a lot more faces, a lot more competition on this team now. How do you see yourself fitting in, and what kind of role do you think you're going to play for this team?
BRANDT BRONICO: Yeah, obviously I started the first two games, but I just focus on what I can control, and that's showing up and giving my best every single day, not so much worried about what the lineup is going to look like on July 14, but ultimately, how can I bring the best version of myself; how can I make myself better; how can I improve every single day; and how can I make my teammates better every single day.
And I think in the long run, that's the kind of teammate not only myself, but every player on the team needs to be because if we are all making each other better and building ourselves up, we're going to have a very successful team and a very successful club.
Q. So could you give a little insight into the vibe around the team? Such a unique circumstance, and it seems like the chemistry that you guys have and the mentality would be really influential in these times.
BRANDT BRONICO: Yeah, I think the vibe is definitely positive. We haven't really taken into account the emotions of all -- everything going on outside of -- outside of our team and outside of what we can control. We've been very focused on our first game on July 14th.
Even with all of the -- all of the distractions, whether that being playing -- we're supposed to be playing Wednesday or playing next Tuesday, we are focused on playing our first game.
The team morale is very high. The energy is very high every single day, and we're competitive at training and we're ready to get back and start winning some games, starting July 14th.
Q. Following up about how you guys found out about the news, you talk about trying to keep the outside distractions out, focus on what you guys can control. Day-to-day between you guys, do you guys talk a lot about like kind of how strange this whole thing is, and what are those conversations like just day-to-day when things come up, like: Oh, you can't go and do, this you can't go talk to whoever. How do you guys within the team talk about kind of the weirdness of all of this?
BRANDT BRONICO: Yeah, I think the biggest thing is kind of supporting each other through it. We're all -- everybody around the world are having to make sacrifices right now because of this pandemic, and one of ours was agreeing to come down here and restarting the season and getting back to what we love to do.
So, you know, a lot of guys have families. I'm definitely missing my fiancée every day, but it's just kind of being there for your teammate, supporting each other, and just saying, you know, we're down here; like let's make the most of it. Let's win as many games. Ultimately, let's just get better when we're down here, so in the long run, like I said earlier, we can be better soccer players and we can help this club be a successful club.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT