UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS SAN ANTONIO FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 26, 2015
Blake Bogenschutz
Michael Egwuagu
Jarveon Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Colorado State - 33
  Texas-San Antonio - 31 
 Q.  Jarveon, even though you guys didn't win the game, the way you played, do you have some momentum going forward into conference play?  What's your takeaway?  
JARVEON WILLIAMS: I mean, there's definitely some positives to take away from this game, but like you said, we lost, so obviously we didn't do all the right things that we needed to do to get a win.  We have to focus on those things and correct them in practice to take the next step forward.   
 Q.  Jarveon, in the first quarter came out for a little bit and then (inaudible) rushing history.  Did the guys kind of spur you on?  
JARVEON WILLIAMS: No.  I mean, it was a pretty good hit, multiple times, multiple games, but I didn't really feel like another hit, so I just bounced up and got back in when my number was called.   
 Q.  Eg, can you talk about what you were seeing defensively from them?  
MICHAEL EGWUAGU: Yeah, I wanted to come in, the offensive line, they did one heck of a game.  The running back, he's one of those backs where you have to bring your feet every time and you have to run your feet, so that's something we're going to definitely try and correct here in practice this week.  But hats off to a great run game that they had.  We're going to get back at it this week.   
 Q.  Blake and Jarveon, you guys have been trying to get that going all season.  Tonight it was clicking.  Was that something that you guys came in saying we're going to run the football tonight?  
BLAKE BOGENSCHUTZ: We knew we had to do better after last week, and I think both sides of the ball we knew we had to be better.  But we have to get to where we're a two-dimensional team where it's not one over the other or passing over rushing.  There needs to be an equal amount, and I think that's when we're going to be at our best, when we're not necessarily 50/50 on our play calling but 50/50 on how effective we are with it.   
 Q.  Blake, you connected a couple times with Aaron Taylor on some really great plays.  You got him 60 yards if I'm right.  Have you guys been connecting in practice?  
BLAKE BOGENSCHUTZ: It's about next man up.  I mean, if somebody goes down and Aaron Taylor needs to step in, he's done a great job.  He's one of those guys that's going to work hard.  He stays after practice and he runs routes, and he's one of those guys that's just a straight work-hard guy.  He's not like the rest of the guys in that he doesn't have blazing speed, but he works hard, and it really does show off.  You don't have to have the talent that everybody else does, the speed or anything like that.  He's a great route runner and he has great technique and hard worker.  Can't say enough about him.  He did a great job.   
 Q.  Blake, on your interception, when the play broke down, it looked like Jarveon broke free, but were you rolling back to your left?  Was that what happened?  Can you run us through that play?  
BLAKE BOGENSCHUTZ: Right, yeah.  We were looking for Jarveon back side, and we saw that he was covered and I got some pressure and rolled out, and didn't think it was a bad decision but it was a bad throw, and I can't do that.   
 Q.  I wanted to ask about Colorado State's third quarter.  Did they do anything different?  Did they run any different stuff at you?  What was going on out there in the third?  
MICHAEL EGWUAGU: I mean, with the third quarter, what we have to do as a defense, we really have to anticipate them coming out on fire in the third quarter.  For some reason we have a history of lacking in the third quarter, and so that's what showed tonight.  I wouldn't say that they did anything different, but we just have to come in with a different focus after halftime knowing that, okay, they're about to try and get after us right here.  It's just more of us.  It was on us.   
 Q.  Jarveon, have you ever run 85 yards before?  
JARVEON WILLIAMS: In high school.   
 Q.  Can you run us through that play?  
JARVEON WILLIAMS: No, it was a tower.  We run it a thousand times a week, and the safety kind of took a bad angle, and I just kind of stretched out my pass, and the rest is history.   
 Q.  Obviously it's been a rough four-game stretch, but that's over.  Conference play starts.  Does that give you guys a new attitude, a new sense of direction, not that those four games weren't for real, but conference play starts?  
BLAKE BOGENSCHUTZ: We want to win every game, and we're coming out of this with no moral victories.  I say it every time we have a loss; there's nothing good out of this game.  Yeah, we can take here and there we had some good plays or whatever.  It doesn't matter if we rush for 500 and we lose the ballgame.  We have to win, whatever it takes to win.  If we have to score 100 or we have to score five, it doesn't matter; we need to win the ballgame, and that's what we're looking to do.   
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT