ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 7, 2010
Haile Gebrselassie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RICHARD FINN: We welcome Haile Gebrselassie here. Obviously, we all wish it was under different circumstances. But I think a courageous performance today. There was certainly some physical issues that came up over the last couple of days. We'll let Haile talk about his knee, what it was like out there, and Haile? 
 HAILE GEBRSELASSIE: First of all, thank you to be here today. Well, I'm a little bit disappointed. Disappointed to myself. I knew this when I arrived here in New York. I told, you know, this is not that serious -- I thought this was not that serious. 
 Okay, well, whatever it is, things happened I cannot change. One thing that I want to tell you today here in front of you I'll a little bit unhappy. When I announced this, maybe everybody becomes a little bit shocked. I myself I don't want to complain anymore after this, which means it's better to stop here. 
 I did really very hard training to win this race. It didn't work. Each time I don't come with -- if it's a problem like this and to complain again and again, it's bad for my -- all of you support me. Especially thank you to Mary. She bring me here to see New York, and that's why I did very hard training. After this, I know I have no discussion with my manager, with anybody, but I discuss with myself. That's why it's better to stop here. 
 I never think about to retire. But for the first time, this is the day. Let me stop and do other work after this. Let me do other job. Let me give a chance for the youngsters. Of course, I am giving a chance for the youngsters. Will I miss the race? It's hard to me, hard because, you know, I want to thank all of you.

 Q. Haile, you're not running anymore, you're retiring right now? 
 HAILE GEBRSELASSIE: Yes.

 Q. Is it just that you feel your body can't take it at this high level anymore? What do you think it is? 
 HAILE GEBRSELASSIE: You know, how many times I complain? Before I came in this competition, I had really very hard training. Better to stop here.

 Q. Did you have any idea coming into this race, and if you had gotten through it fine, would you still be making the same decision or is this just because of what happened out there today in the 16th mile? 
 HAILE GEBRSELASSIE: No, no, no, no. I knew this problem. I mean what happened yesterday when the doctor came to me to bring me to an MRI. They said there is a kind of fluid inside. Why this happen. Thank you.

 Q. Did you start feeling bad on the flight? Is that what happened? Were you in a bad position? 
 HAILE GEBRSELASSIE: No complaints, really. It's better not to complain anymore. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT