AIG WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 2, 2019
Bronte Law
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How was it out there?
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, I'm very happy with how I played.  Played some very solid golf.  Holed a couple more putts today.  Kind of went out with that intention.  There's some tricky putts out there and managed to pick up a couple birdies in places where I didn't expect, so that's always nice.
Q. Did you feel like you had a fire in your belly today to go and hole a few more?
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, I hit some really good shots yesterday, and kind of didn't really make the most of it.  Today, I held some really good putts.  Honestly, that's the key, really, making those putts when you need to.
Q. How has it been playing with Solheim Cup captain, Catriona Matthew?
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, it's like when you're younger at school and you're in front of the teacher so they can keep an eye on you.  Felt a little bit like that, but kept my focus out there.  But obviously with it being a major, the goal is to play well and it's not so much that I'm worried about Solheim is that I have a job to do.
Q. What were you thinking on the greens?  Look like they are running very true.  Feeling confident with the stroke?
BRONTE LAW: You make the putts when you can.  I think, yeah, it's just about rolling along your lines.  The slopes on those greens -- you can't really worry too much about the hole.  It's more just rolling on the intended line.
Q. Holing some massive putts for birdie like this one on 14.  How good did this one feel?
BRONTE LAW: This one was nice.  It was going in a with a little bit of speed.  So always nice.  It's a long hole, that one, today.  So it's playing quite tricky.  So picking up birdie there is always nice.
Q. This year, securing your first win on the LPGA, how do you reflect on that week?
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, it's crazy.  I can't watch that enough.  That experience was something that I'll never forget.  Still have my caddie on the bag and hoping we can recreate more memories like that.
Q. How much would it mean to you to win this week, another LPGA, but a major?
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, winning majors is why we play this game, and obviously this is my first opportunity to set me towards that path.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT