AIG WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 2, 2019
Bronte Law
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Did this seem more pressure?
BRONTE LAW: It's easy to get caught up in that stuff and worry about, you know, this and that, and ultimately, you have to still go out and play your game.  Doesn't matter what ranking you are or where you are.  Like it's golf, isn't it.  So try to push all that aside and just go out there and play good golf that I've been playing recently.  Played well last week.  So just tried to carry that into this week and not really worry about the stuff that goes on outside of the ropes.
Q. Must be tried to put a show on in front of the fans.  A lot of them are seeing you for the first time in the flesh.
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, obviously a lot of people, it will be the first time they saw me since winning on the LPGA.  Hopefully they can kind of see the difference of the last time I played here as an amateur and where my game is now.  I'm looking forward to showcasing a loyal bit more of that over the weekend.
Q. When do you remember first meeting or playing with Georgia and Charley?
BRONTE LAW: Long time ago.  I mean, we must have known each other since we were like nine or ten.  I remember Charley beating me in the English Under 13s way back.  There's a picture of us online; I don't think you should look it up.
Yeah, that picture, I remember that.  We have very fond memories of always kind of competing with each other from a very young age.  I know me and Georgia were in that England setup together starting at like age 12 or something.  We literally went through the system together.  So we have a lot of respect for each other and we know where we've come from, and I think, you know, that's something that's really special.
Q. The last time you were here, you were playing borrowed clubs.
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, my clubs got lost in Charles de Gaulle last time I played here, so I had to do the qualifier with my coach's golf clubs and managed to make it and played pretty decent.
They actually never turned up.
Q. Can you assess the major differences in your game from then to now?
BRONTE LAW: I think that obviously playing in college, you know, was a huge factor of my growth as a player, but I think just being patient and trusting my ability, and knowing that I'm good enough out here is something that can go a long way.
Q. What do you make of the leaderboard, given your background with Charley and Georgia?
BRONTE LAW: I haven't even looked to be honest.
Q. Georgia is same, 7-under.  Neither of you have had a bogey yet?
BRONTE LAW: All right.  Well, let's hope we continue that.
Q. Could be quite an epic weekend.
BRONTE LAW: Absolutely.  The more Brits at the top, the better.  It just shows the strength of golf in the U.K. and hopefully it can increase the publicity in the U.K. of women's golf, and obviously with where we are all ranked in the World Rankings, we deserve to get more publicity.
Hopefully doing it on home soil, if you're going to get the publicity, now is the time.  You know, the excuse wouldn't be, oh, well, it's in the States.  We're doing it here in front of a home crowd.  So hopefully we can all continue to keep playing well and put on a show for the fans out here.
Q. Do you motivate each other?  How does that work?
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, I think so.  I know we are all very supportive of each other.  Watching Georgia win last year was probably, you know, if someone asked me, like what was the most, you know, incredible win that you've watched, like of another person, if it wasn't yourself winning, it would be Georgia winning last year.  The fact that she went out there and the way she composed herself, and obviously growing up together, like I was so proud of what she did.
I think just the fact that, you know, all three of us now, me, Charley, Georgia, have had a win on the LPGA, we just continue to push each other and kind of just raise the profile of British golf.  I think it's something that's really cool and really special.  You know, you look at the size of the U.K. versus America, and it's really cool to see what's going on.
Q. Have you got one of your boxing sort of motivational words going through your head this week?
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, I mean, kind of try and always have that at the back of my mind.  There's times like obviously I haven't had any bogeys yet, but you know, on -- I think was it 12, is it, the par 5 -- 11, where I nearly made a bogey.  Kind of nearly got hit in the face there.  That's at least how it felt, and I made, you know, a par there.  Kind of dodged it, and you know, could then continue to kind of attack the course.
So it's really important to kind of stay on your toes and not really get comfortable out there.
Q. Who is here watching you?
BRONTE LAW: My family.  There's a bunch of them.  Uncles, aunties, cousins, all sorts.
Q. Could you guess a number?
BRONTE LAW: I have a big family, so they are hard to keep tabs on.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT