AIG WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 1, 2019
Bronte Law
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What a great round today; how were your nerves going into it knowing you were playing with the captain?
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, I mean, I don't think it was really any different than normal.  Catriona is a great friend, so I didn't really think of it any differently.  I just tried to go out there and play my game, and ultimately it's a major, so the goal is to like win the major as opposed to really worry about what she's thinking or anything like that.  Yeah, just focused on my game, and just pleased with how solid I played.  Could have done with holing a couple more putts here and there, but it's day one so hopefully can ramp it up over the next couple days.
Q. She's obviously made you feel very comfortable going out there, but it's a lot of pressure on yourself because you want to perform and show her that you're playing well, you want to obviously do well.  It's the first round of your home major.  It's a big week for you, so you must be really pleased to go out there and perform.
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, I didn't really feel that -- not so much.  Ultimately it's a game.  I play it every week, and you can't let stuff like that affect you.  You just have to go out and play the same way that I usually do and put those emotions to the side.  Once I hit my first tee shot, I could kind of take a deep breath and just was playing really solid golf.  It's kind of easy to be more relaxed when you're playing well, as well.
Q. How are you finding the course?  It's playing a bit longer, but everyone seems --
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, I think the length is good.  I think it's long, but I think it should be, so yeah.
Q. Is there any particular holes that you thought today that were playing so well now that they've lengthened it?
BRONTE LAW: I think 18 is a good hole to end with.  Hitting a 4-iron in there, it's a long hole but a good hole.  And I would say the 14th is a good hole, the downhill par-3.  They've lengthened that.  You have to hit a really solid shot in there.  And even once you're on the green, it's not an easy green to kind of make your way around.  Yeah, I think they've lengthened it, but obviously hopefully no more rain, otherwise it can get pretty long out there.
Q. Playing in a major as the No. 1 in the UK for the first time, do you feel not pressure but sort of excitement?  Do you feel like the crowd are all behind you?
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, I mean, I feel like there's a lot of support out there, which is really nice, but like I kind of mentioned it early on this week, it's just a number.  There's a lot of really good British golfers out here.  The crowds have plenty of good golf to follow, and I think that's something that's really exciting is that there's a lot of good British golfers out there playing good golf right now.
Yeah, just got to go out there and play my game and not really worry too much about all the other stuff that goes on.
Q. It's nice being No. 1, but I guess you took a different path to what Charley and Georgia and the ones that went full-time.  Did it ever panic you a little bit -- not panic you, but oh, these are the guys I played with, they're out on Tour?  Were you really happy and enjoying University?
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, I kind of always had a plan, and I stuck to my plan, and my dad was very pivotal in coming up with that plan with me.  We had multiple conversations where I was like, oh, I don't know, I kind of want to turn pro.  But we had a plan, and we stuck to it, and I think that it was the right thing for me.  I really grew as a player in college and also as a person, and I think that being able to travel and live in the States on my own now is something that I learnt by going to college on my own.  It's not just so much about the golf but like being able to manage as a person living in the States on my own.  I'm pretty happy with that decision now, and I think that it was suitable for me.
Q. Is it very pleasing now that you can feel that you and your dad's plan has come to fruition?
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, absolutely.  It's always easy when you see other people doing well and you kind of feel like you should be there, but we always, like I said, just trusted it, and I still left college like a year early, but it felt right at that time, and it was a good decision.  I'm really glad that I had kind of seen it out.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT