AIG WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
July 30, 2019
Bronte Law
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TOM BENBOW: We welcome England's Bronte Law to the AIG British Open Media Centre.
This is going to be your fourth appearance in this tournament.  How does it feel to be back?
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, it feels great.  It's always good to be back in England, obviously now playing on the LPGA, I don't get so much time in the U.K.  Being back and seeing a few faces I haven't seen in a while is always nice, including my family.  Great to see them, and be spending the next few weeks with them and which I am really looking forward to.  It's good be to back in the U.K.
TOM BENBOW: Last year, being in the northwest at Lytham, that probably felt a real home event does.  This one still feel like home?
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, definitely.  Any time I'm in England, it's considered home now.  It's as close as I'm going to get, really, being back in Manchester.
Yeah, being back at Lytham last year was really nice, and I should have a good following this week, as well.  I've got lots of family and friends coming out to watch.  I'm hoping to put on a good show for them.
TOM BENBOW: So you're 22nd in the Rolex Rankings and you're the top-ranked Brit here this week.  Did you know about that?  Does that give you any added pressure?  How does that feel?
BRONTE LAW: I mean, that's just a number on paper, so for me, that's not really something that I'm focusing on.  Every week you have to go out and prove yourself, so whatever rank you are, it doesn't really matter.  You go out and you try and win.
So it doesn't really matter what ranking I am.  I'm going to prepare the best that I can this week and go after that win.
TOM BENBOW: Last question from me.  You've had a bit of a trip from Evian, back from Evian, that's not kind of a normal one.  Could you just tell everyone a little bit about what happened?  How did you get here and how has it affected your preparation?
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, my Monday morning flight was cancelled.  So Easy Jet decided that the next possible flight would be actually today.  So I had to look for alternative flights.  Ended up flying through Frankfurt.  Nearly missed my connection.  Had to run about a mile to make that one.  Then didn't think my clubs were going to make it, but they did.
So instead of arriving at 11.00am yesterday, I landed at I think it was like 6.30.  So there was no golf yesterday.  Just a lot of running around airports and trying to make sure that my bags arrived.  But I'm here.
Q. If I remember, you played here as an amateur and had a really good start.  What are your thoughts on the golf course and how it sets up for you?
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, last time I was here, I played with borrowed clubs, as well, because my clubs were lost.  Did pretty well with borrowed clubs.  Obviously gained a lot of experience since then and would really hope that I could have a good week this week.  I know they have lengthened the course in some places, which I always like it to be a little longer I think when it plays tougher, it's better, so yeah.
Q. Is Dad here this week?
BRONTE LAW: Yes, he will be here on Thursday.
Q. And I know you said in the past that there isn't a psychology book he hasn't read when it comes to golf.  Are there any pearls of wisdom he has for you this week?
BRONTE LAW: I'm sure he will have plenty come Thursday.  We talk every day and a lot of his philosophy has come down to just staying in the moment and really taking each shot for its worth.
I talked about the kind of boxing psychology that he really likes to adopt a couple times now, and you know, that's really helped me throughout this season.  It's something that has really definitely made big changes in my mental game and something that I think I can continue to work on.
Q. Can you elaborate on the boxing?
BRONTE LAW: Basically, obviously when you're a boxer, the goal is to hit those knockout punches, right, but sometimes it's not that easy.  So you might have to play defense certain times and wait for your chances to, you know, take the punch.
So on the golf course, you can't just go out and attack it all the time and you have to play defensively and dodge those punches and ultimately take your chances when you get them.  You know, if you do take a punch, sometimes you have to play a little bit defensive before you can throw another punch back.  We try and adopt that as much as possible.
A lot of times, if I make a bogey, actually, afterwards, you'll see, like a make a string of birdies like together.  Sometimes you take that hit and it kind of motivates you, and ultimately kind of pushed me on a little bit, so yeah.
Q. Does your dad watch golf himself?
BRONTE LAW: He's a good golfer, but he's more interested in watching golf now.  He makes me play once a year and I have to give him like 16 shots or something, and he tells everyone that we played off scratch (laughter).
Q. Your dad isn't a boxer, by any chance, is he?
BRONTE LAW: No.
Q. He's never boxed?
BRONTE LAW: No.
Q. But a keen watcher of it, is he?
BRONTE LAW: Not really, just the books that he's read.  They make a lot of like boxing references and all the psychology books.  Literally, doesn't matter what sport it is, he's kind of read them.  That was one that really stuck out for him that I think that he thinks is relevant to the game that I play and something that will help me mentally on a golf course.
Q. Was it all designed to help you, or does he use these philosophies in every day life himself?
BRONTE LAW: Probably uses them a little bit, as well.  He's a very successful businessman and is kind of self-made.  He's honestly my biggest inspiration.  Any advice that he gives me, I really try and take it on board and I know that he does it to really help my career.  Any advice he gives me, we talk it through and I really try and adopt that into my golf game.
Q. As a child, did you do as you were told?  Did you listen to your parents?
BRONTE LAW: No.  That's been more of a revelation for me as I've got older; that they tell you stuff because they actually want to help you, as opposed to not try and help you.
Q. So when you give him 16 shots, do you beat him?
BRONTE LAW: We halved last time.  I think I was like 8-under for something.  But we still tell everyone that we halved and played off the same tees and everything, no shots, yeah.
Q. Have you ever lost a trophy or had one stolen?
BRONTE LAW: Don't think so.  Unless you know something that I don't.
Q. You have all your trophies that you've won in amateur and college golf?
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, I think they are at the house in England.  Might have to call my parents now and ask.
Q. The reason I'm asking is because Georgia Hall has just told us that she had the Women's British Open trophy stolen from the car a few months ago?
BRONTE LAW: Oh, wow.  Well, my Kingsmill one is safely at home right now.
Q. With all the difficulties getting from Evian and the fact that you have two majors, is that a potential problem?
BRONTE LAW: No, I don't think it's a problem.  I think, you know, obviously played last week, played some really good golf, and the fact that it's back-to-back majors for me, I think is going to be beneficial because I'm very pleased with how I'm hitting the ball and can kind of carry that momentum into this week.  If you're not playing well, then yeah, it might be an issue because you haven't had much time to work on your game.
There's nothing really that I'm worried about for this week.  So actually the fact that it is a quick turnaround, I think is something that is good.
Q. Tom referenced your high position in the World Rankings, you're a winner this year, and that's what Georgia and Charley have achieved.  Do you think golf in this country, and also within women's sport in this country, do you think you get the credit for the success that British women's golf has achieved?
BRONTE LAW: I think what Georgia achieved last year is definitely a steppingstone to kind of where we should be in terms of the recognition that we deserve.  But you know, we have a long way to go.  I think the fact that we have three British players really highly ranked in the rankings is something that is going to help that.
You know, we have to do the extraordinary to kind of be even slightly noticed.  You can only hope that that's going to improve, and we'll see.
Q. I'm thinking specifically of sort of women's sport, it's very much on the rise in the last two or three years.  Are you sort of aware that golf has not quite picked up on that wave?
BRONTE LAW: It's difficult obviously living in the US because women's golf is becoming a lot more popular there.  I think you see from the purse increases and the publicity that women's golf is getting out in the States, you are actually starting to see it's becoming something that what it deserves to be.
In the U.K., I would say -- I wouldn't say it missed that train, but it's not quite where it should be in terms of the publicity and the interest that other sports, women's sports have been getting.  But you know, you try and think, it may be due to the weather that it's still not going to be as popular.
Yeah, I don't know.  It's hard for me to make a comment on that because obviously I'm not spending much time in the U.K., so I'm just seeing the growth kind of in the States.  But yeah, it's not where it should be, I know that.
Q. Considering tennis players in England; I would think you would be much bigger personalities in the sporting landscape if you had a tennis profile.  Have you ever considered that?
BRONTE LAW: I used to play tennis, but I do know what you're saying.  If we were tennis players, obviously there would be a lot more interest around it.  But you know, it's not.
So ultimately, we just have to keep doing what we're doing and try and promote the sport each time we go out and play.  I think Solheim will be a really good thing for British sport.  I think that that will really help kind of raise the profile hopefully.
Q. A few questions.  Can you remember where you actually finished when you played here as an amateur?
BRONTE LAW: I think it was 32nd.
TOM BENBOW: I think I've got the detail actually.  In 2016 is when you were an amateur, tied 50th.
BRONTE LAW: Okay.  Well, I thought I was better than I was then.
Q. Have you had any caddie changes, and/or have you got the same caddie that you had last year, and if so, what is his name or her name?
BRONTE LAW: So my caddie is Jeff Brighton, who actually was a caddie at Turnberry, I think -- he's going to kill me if that's wrong.  I've only had three caddies, really, that have worked for me longer than a week period of time since I surprised pro.
My first caddie was actually an ex-PGA TOUR, Brian, who now works as a caddie on the PGA.  Unfortunately I lost him.  I had Dean Herden, as well, who is a very established caddie who caddied for me towards the back end of last year, and now since December, I had Jeff working for me, who the first week was the LET Q-School that he caddied for me.
So we've been working together since then, and he's been brilliant.  He kind of is the full package.  He does everything that I need him to be, and we'll crack jokes on the course to keep me calm when I need him to be or be serious when he needs me to be or shut up when I need him to shut up, which is good.
You know, he's really good at his job, getting good numbers.  You know, he does his homework on the course, and I'm very lucky to have him.  Really enjoy working with him.  We both got our first win together, so that was really special.
Q. As far as do you have a swing coach, and if so, who is it and have you worked with him for a long time?
BRONTE LAW: Yes, I do.  Richard Green is my swing coach.  He's actually out here this week, and he's been my coach since I was 7.  He knows my swing better than anyone.
It's very much a lot of the stuff that we do is over the phone, and it will be videos that I send to him and he'll send me back a voice recording telling me what I need to do.  You know, it's kind of been that way since I really moved to college when I was 18.
Now we get a couple of weeks that we get to work with each other, and I really enjoy that time of the year because that's the only time that I really get to see him now.  But yeah, he's brilliant.  I owe a lot to him.  He's really creating me into the player that I am today, and I think that I'm very lucky to have someone that's like a second father figure.
Q. Where is he based?
BRONTE LAW: Bramhall Golf Club.  So my home course where I grew up, and then I also have a putting coach out in Arizona, Natalie Schmett, who is 25, I think she is, so she's young.  But she was actually there when I got my first win in Kingsmill and that was really special.  She's a really close friend of mine, as well.
She does a good job of keeping tabs on my swing, as well.  I'll tell her what I'm working with Richard, and she'll keep an eye on it and will help me if she thinks that there's certain tweaks that need to be done, as well.
Q. Very strong English contingent, you guys very nearly won the UL Crown, and you could all be on the Solheim Cup.  How special would it be to have four English women in the Solheim Cup?  How special could you guys be?
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, I think the fact that there's potentially going to be four English players on the Solheim Cup shows really the strength of golf in England.  You know, all of us have been through that England setup, and it just shows kind of the programme that they have in place is one that's really working.  I know that there's a couple English amateurs playing this week that qualified, and you know, I think they are part of the next kind of group and wave of English players that are going to come through and do well on Tour, as well.
In terms of the Solheim, I think that like you're saying, the four of us that played in the International Crown, finishing second, obviously that was a match-play event, just kind of shows the strength that we have in terms of playing match-play golf.  We grow up playing a lot of match-play golf as amateurs, and it's something that I think all of us will agree that we thrive and really enjoy playing.
So to have four of us on that team will kind of show the strength that we have in numbers.
Q. Shanshan is a player that doesn't like to look at leaderboards.  It strikes me that you're the antithesis of that.  Coming down the stretch, do you want to know exactly what's happening?
BRONTE LAW: Well, I thought I did, and then I played at Kingsmill and actually it was in San Fran when I realised that I didn't really want to know.  I was having such a good day in the last round in San Fran, and life seemed easy, which very rarely is on the golf course, and everything seemed to be going my way.
You know, I wasn't really looking at the leaderboard at all, because I started the day so far behind.  So I just went out there and was having a good day and it only occurred to me kind of on 16, 17, 18 when the camera crew descended that something might be happening.
So I realised then that I had not really been paying attention to them all day, and when I went to Kingsmill, I told myself that I wasn't going to really look at them.  Ultimately, if you go and play your best golf, you can't do anymore than that, and looking at a leaderboard or looking at what other people are doing, isn't going to change ultimately what you're doing unless you let it.
I actually had no idea what was going on in Kingsmill pretty much all week until the 18th hole when I had two putts for it, I told Jeff to come over and I was like, Jeff, what's happening?
And he looked at me, he's like, "You've got two for the win," and I felt a little more relaxed over that putt.  It's something I thought would motivate me in the past to look at the leaderboards and kind of see where I'm at.  I will occasionally have a look but it's not something now that I let determine how I'm going to play.
So I'm not just going to stop being aggressive or play it safe because I look at a leaderboard, because I think that's when you ultimately let it dictate what kind of game you're playing.  You shouldn't let a leaderboard or a scoreboard have that power over you.  Kind of trying to be more on the cautious side in terms of looking at them.
Q. What do you miss about England?  If you had to name one thing, a food that you miss, now that you live in the States, or a television show?
BRONTE LAW: I think I would have to say my family.  You know, living away from them is probably one of the hardest things and the biggest sacrifice I've had to make.  A lot of people would say that I could still live in England if I had the choice, but in terms of being able to train all year round in good weather, for me, that is how I think I'm going to grow as a player, being able to not have that as a factor in terms of, oh, it's raining today, I'm going to have to go outside and practice in the rain.  I don't have to deal with that.
So for me, I had to make that sacrifice in order to grow as a player.  Ultimately, you know, don't get to see my family as much, but the time that I do get to spend with him, I really make the most of it.
Q. Where do you base yourself when you are not playing in tournaments?
BRONTE LAW: In Scottsdale, Arizona.
Q. Have you based yourself there since you became a professional and started playing on the LPGA?
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, so I was in college at UCLA in Los Angeles, and my first year on Tour, I was still in classes.  So I was living in L.A. in school, not really in school that much.  Going to classes when I would miss a tournament.
I stayed in L.A. until my graduation in June, and then packed up everything in my car and drove to Arizona.  Got myself an apartment there and then recently just bought a place.  So very much settled in Arizona right now.
Q. Was that because of the weather there, and obviously the facilities are fantastic?
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, the weather there; the golf courses are amazing.  Los Angeles is crazy and too expensive.  So that was the closest state, and you know, I set up shop there.
TOM BENBOW: Just one last one from me.  You kind of touched on it, the Solheim Cup, less than 50 days to go.  I know you're not able to qualify automatically, but is putting in a good performance this week and next week before the team is selected in your mind as part of your thinking, you know, while you're here this week and how much of it is a factor.
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, I've said this before, and I'll say it again.  Until the team is picked, I can prove myself to Catriona, and I have that intent this week doing the same.  It's been a goal of mine all year to make sure that I got on that team.  Hence, why I went to Q-School at the start of the year.  You know, obviously major last week, major this week, just going out there and playing my best.  Hopefully can follow Georgia's footsteps of last year.
But yeah, until the team is picked, I have to prove myself every week.
TOM BENBOW: Thanks, Bronte, and best of luck this week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT