THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 27, 2019
Bronte Law
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  First thought about your play.  
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, I mean, pretty comfortable in my wedges around the greens.  I usually can create kind of a lot different kind of shots.   
So, yeah, my first thought was just the way the grass was.  If I could cut across it a little bit I'll get some grab when it lands on the green and then just let it release.   
 Q.  It was perfect, wasn't it?  We're in awe.  When you look at a shot like that, are you picturing all the grasses being all the same or what are you...  
BRONTE LAW: Well, I mean, I'm only really thinking about like a couple of inches behind the ball, because really the rest of the grass isn't going to come into play.   
Because of the way I was coming across it, there was only about this much the grass behind that was going to affect it.   
But I'm really trying to clear -- like not really make contact with any of the grass behind it and just catch the ball like right there.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible.)  
BRONTE LAW: No.  Like just a little bit back in the stance, open up the club face, and jut kind of -- yeah.   
 Q.  Meanwhile, back at Evian, how do you rate where you are right now?  
BRONTE LAW: I don't know.  Haven't looked.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible.)  
BRONTE LAW: Oh, okay.  I mean, I knew I had to go out there today and shoot a decent score to have any sort of chance at running at it tomorrow.   
I told my caddie we need to get better each day after the first day, and so far we've done that.  So just hoping to continue with that again tomorrow.   
Had a lot of the good looks today.  If I can get few more putts going in, that would be nice.   
Had some like six, seven footers that I didn't make that were really close.  Yeah, couple more of those drop and it's right there.   
 Q.  How many times have you played this championship?  
BRONTE LAW: This is my fourth time.   
 Q.  And how do you assess the course?  Is it the most difficult you've played it?  
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, I mean, I think it's different.  I don't know about it being the most difficult because I've played when it's been hale and rain has been sideways.  That obviously makes it a lot more challenging.   
Yeah, the course is set up well I think.  You've got to play well.  You have to hit fairways; you've got to hit greens.  And you can't just hit greens.  You've got to hit the spots on the greens where you're planning on hitting.   
So it's all very well saying you hit a green, but it might not end up near the pin if you're not hitting exactly where you're trying to land it.  Precision is key.  Holing putts is key.   
Yeah, got to be on your game to play well here.  If you are, then you can have a good shot.   
 Q.  Between holes some players like to take their mind off and chat with their caddies.  Is that what you do?  
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, I mean, usually we have a chat when we're walking down the fairway, especially with how long the rounds have been taking this week.  It's been a long couple of days, so switching off in between shots is definitely important.   
Obviously when a golf course is so demanding you want to use all your energy in the shots and not really be draining yourself in between the shots.  Having a caddie that you can talk to is definitely helpful.   
 Q.  How long have you working with him?  
BRONTE LAW: Since December.   
 Q.  How do you get on?  
BRONTE LAW: I would say all right.   
 Q.  Who does more talking?  
BRONTE LAW: He does.   
 Q.  Is that because he's Scottish?  
BRONTE LAW: I guess so.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT