U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
May 29, 2019
Bronte Law
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: All right, everyone.  It's my pleasure to welcome Bronte Law into the media center.  Bronte is playing in her second U.S. Women's Open this week.  She earned her first victory on the LPGA Tour this past week at the Pure Silk Championship in Williamsburg, Virginia.  Congratulations for that.
BRONTE LAW: Thank you.
THE MODERATOR: What does that win do for your confidence leading into the U.S. Women's Open this week?
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, it does a huge amount.  Obviously, the U.S. Open being a major, it's definitely given me a lot of confidence coming into this week.  I'm playing some good golf, and I'm really hoping that I can carry it on to this week on a challenging golf course.  Yeah, it's definitely changed my outlook going into the week compared to what it would have been looking back on my last U.S. Open.
THE MODERATOR: You mentioned a challenging golf course.  You've had a chance to see it a little bit.  How does this course challenge you?  Obviously, you're playing well; the win last week, playoff loss a little bit earlier in the month.
What do you need to do while on this course to be in contention again on Sunday afternoon?
BRONTE LAW: I think just taking each shot as it comes is a big factor for me.  I'm really hoping that I could just stay in the moment.  I think putting is going to be massive out here.  The greens seem to be a little challenging.  So just trusting those lines and being 100 percent on each shot is going to be huge.
THE MODERATOR: Let's open it up to questions.
Q. You sort of lost feel with the driver for a few holes midway through the final round.  What did you do to get back on track?
BRONTE LAW: Honestly, I just thought about all the things that I worked on with my coaches when I've seen those shots in previous occasions and just really tried to trust what I was doing and kind of attack it a little more.  I felt like I was maybe trying to guide the shots down the fairway a little bit.
I just, on the 12th hole, pulled out 3 wood and just was really aggressive with it, hit probably one of the best 3 woods I'd hit all week, and that kind of gave me the confidence back again that there's no real issues with the swing.  I just need to trust that feeling.
And for the remainder of the final holes, it didn't cause me too many problems.
Q. You play with a lot of emotion.  How do you use that to your advantage?
BRONTE LAW: Sometimes I have to tone it down a bit.  Otherwise, I know I can get in my own way.  I really try to not hype myself up too much out there because I could feel my heart starting to race a little bit.
So I just tried to take some deep breaths.  I had a little sit-down on the 18th tee just to kind of calm myself down and really tried to not get too attached to the situation and just ultimately play the golf that was there in front of me.
Q. You've been successful in every level of your career.  What was the biggest part of the learning curve on the LPGA for you personally to get into the winners circle?
BRONTE LAW: I think it just comes from believing truly in yourself and your ability.  Obviously, I kind of look at it in stages.  When I went to college, my first year as a freshman, I had some success, but I struggled here and there.  You know, there's certain things I had to learn and take care of.  It wasn't just the golf aspect.  It could have been nutrition.  It could have been fitness, flexibility.  You know, there's a number of things, obviously, you have to take care of.
My second year in college, I kind of started to find my feet, have some more wins.  And then my third year, I really started to kick it off.  I just each year would take care of more things and learn more about myself and what I needed to take care of.
And the same kind of thing is going on really with my career right now as a professional.  My first year was a grind.  I had conditional status, and I had a lot of learning.  Each week, I was just trying to make cuts to get by and get my card.
My second year, I started to find my feet more.  I got into the Asia swing.  I started to have more top tens.  And then this year, I'm just starting to really get a good group of people behind me and take care of all those little things that are going to build towards being successful.
I really started to do that this year, just making sure that everything is taken care of, and there is nothing that -- you know, those boxes are all ticked off.  I think the confidence of trusting what I'm doing behind the scenes, I'm believing in myself, is the difference.
Q. There was a little bit of confusion on your eligibility for the Solheim Cup, at least on my end, and that you would need a captain's pick.  How much were you aware of how all that was working, and how much did that motivate you Sunday?
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, I've been aware of that from the start.  I went to Morocco to get my LET Tour card, but I knew that I would never be able to play in enough events this year, obviously, with me playing on the LPGA, to be eligible for the world ranking or the Solheim Cup points.
So obviously, for me, I every week have to prove myself, and I really do want to be a part of that team.  So for me, I have to keep impressing until the very end.
Q. Beth Daniel talked about this course and said she thought it reminded her of a lot of courses in England that were not on the coast, but inland.  Do you find that true?  And also, some thoughts about the 11th hole here.
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, it definitely does resemble a lot of parkland courses in the UK.  The difference is the greens are a lot bigger here, like a lot of things in America, than the UK.  So that will definitely take some getting used to, really getting -- you know, the speed of the greens is going to be massive.
Yeah, the 11th hole is going to be an interesting one.  I just hope I hit the middle of that green every day.
THE MODERATOR: I'll ask you a question about the heat, given that it's been quite warm down here this week.  Do you alter your preparation or practice schedule based on the weather being so warm this week?
BRONTE LAW: I try not to alter too many things.  Just drink a lot of water and maybe hit a couple less golf balls, but nothing crazy.  I moved to Arizona, so I'm kind of getting used to that heat.  The humidity, not so much.  Yeah, I'm getting used to being in 100 degree heat and hitting golf balls.  So hopefully, it shouldn't be too much of an issue.
THE MODERATOR: Bronte Law, 1:29 p.m. off the 10th tee on Thursday.  Best of luck this week.
BRONTE LAW: Thank you very much.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT