PURE SILK CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY VISIT WILLIAMSBURG
May 25, 2019
Bronte Law
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  That last hole, how important that was for you going into tomorrow?  
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, you know, I led from the start and I kind of wanted to continue that, so that was huge to keep that going.  That was really my goal when I tee'd it up on 18.  I'm glad that I could finish the round that way going into tomorrow.   
 Q.  What did you learn from the past experiences?  (Indiscernible.)  
BRONTE LAW: You know, I think just you have to keep pushing.  You can't sit on anything.  There are a lot of good golfers out here that come right up behind you.   
You have to keep pushing.  At no point can you stop making birdies and you just have limit those mistakes.   
 Q.  (Regarding the final pairing.)  Is that a good pairing for you to be in the final group?  
BRONTE LAW: I mean, at any point I think it's a good thing.  It's something that I'm looking forward, and hopefully I can continue the way I've been playing and have a good time out there.   
 Q.  Just take us through that last hole there on 18.  How important was that for you to end with a birdie?  
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, I mean, it was massive.  I was really trying to make one more birdie coming in.  Didn't quite make the one on 16 or 17, so I was -- had my last shot on 18 to make that birdie to make that final pairing and stay ahead, which is something that I've been trying to go for each day and just keep pushing and pushing and making more birdies.   
Pretty pleased with how I played.  I hit the ball really well today.  I hopefully can carry that into tomorrow and just keep doing the same thing.   
 Q.  It's a crowded leaderboard up there and it was a crowded you leaderboard all day.  What was motivating you to get into that final pairing?  
BRONTE LAW: Obviously being ahead is something that is the goal at the start of the week and at the end.  It's obviously more important at the end.  So round three it's important to really stay up there.  They call it moving day for a reason.   
I was trying if keep moving.  I'm pretty pleased with how things ended.  I'm hoping to just carry on this momentum into tomorrow.   
 Q.  The strategy here will be up against the hot weather.  For you will that have an impact on you, do you think?  
BRONTE LAW: I moved to Scottsdale so I kind of know hot weather now.  I would hope that it's not too much of an impact.  Obviously it's important to stay hydrated.  I think I've done a good job of that so far.   
Just continuing to do that and, you know, hoping to give myself the best chance by taking care of all the other variables?   
 Q.  In contention for your first win here on the LPGA Tour; what would it mean for you to win tomorrow?  
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, I mean, obviously winning is everything, right?  That's why we play this game.  I'm going to do my very best to go out and get the win.   
Obviously U.S. Open coming up, so really important to be playing good golf right now.  This is a great time to be playing some good golf.  I'm just going to try and carry that into tomorrow.   
 Q.  How far away were you on 18 there?  
BRONTE LAW: I think I had 156.   
 Q.  I'm sorry, on the putt.  
BRONTE LAW: Oh, six, seven feet, yeah.   
 Q.  You'll be playing with Nasa tomorrow and obviously be competing against the course more than her.  What are your thoughts on her and her game?  Obviously she plays very well.  
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, I mean, there are a lot of good players out here.  I don't really pinpoint like individual players.  I just know there is a lot of talent on the LPGA, and on the day there are plenty of people that can shoot low numbers.   
Hoping to go out there and have a good time with her.  Hopefully we can push each other and have some fun out there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT