PURE SILK CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY VISIT WILLIAMSBURG
May 24, 2019
Bronte Law
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Tough save there on 18, but enough to continue to be on the top of the leaderboard.  How were you feeling out there today?  
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, you know it was a battle.  Seemed to feel like every time I would make a birdie and try and build on it I would have an unforced error couple holes later and make bogey and be back to where I started.   
So it took me a while to really get into it.  I had a couple drives that really cost me today to build some momentum.  I had six birdies out there, so could have really had another low one.   
But mistakes happen, and I'm just going to try to minimize that for the rest of the tournament.  I'm creating enough chances to where I can keep shooting some low scores.   
 Q.  You had a stretch of birdies there on the back nine after a bogey.  What did you say to yourself to motivate you to have that stretch?  
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, I mean, I hit a couple bad drives, like I was saying.  I just told myself, You got to stay in this.  There is still plenty of birdie opportunities coming up.  You've got to hit those drives down the middle so you can create some chances.  Hit some good drives towards the end there.  The putt on 17 was nice because I hadn't really holed anything of length all day.   
So, you know, pleased with holing some good putts towards the end.   
 Q.  You talk about the confidence to move forward.  How much with the round yesterday kind of boosted your confidence to be able to get yourself out of those struggles?  
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, I mean, I think that's just like how I am in general.  I'm always trying to be better and strive to be better.  If I'm having a rough time or making bogeys, trying to turn it around and make some birdies.   
That's just how my mindset is.  The difference is I've been able to actually do that, so...   
 Q.  What's it going to take to stay on the top of the leaderboard here the rest of the weekend?  
BRONTE LAW: More birdies, no bogeys.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT