SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 27, 2018
Bronte Law
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  That was a good birdie at the 18th.  Put you right into contention going into tomorrow?  
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, it's good so we can carry that momentum into tomorrow.  There are some tough par 3s out there on the back nine and to finish with that birdie there, it kind of -- yeah, it puts me in good stead for tomorrow.  Just hoping that I can do more of the same, really.   
 Q.  You seem to me to be a player that just thrives in competition.  You said last week how much you love playing on the LPGA and you're just two off the pace.  Are you really looking forward to it?  Will you be watching the leaderboards knowing exactly what you've got to do?  
BRONTE LAW: I try and not watch them too much.  Obviously each shot that you take you're trying to do the best that you can.  So it doesn't really matter what anyone else is doing.  That's out of my control.   
I'm going to go out there and I'm going to push and try and make as many birdies early on as possible and hopefully can put myself in good position going into the back nine tomorrow.   
 Q.  I hear your dad is here this week, Tim, who I know you said at the UL International Crown has read every book about the mental side of golf possible.  I'm sure he's been a help whilst he's here.  
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, it's nice.  I don't get my family to come out and watch that often.  I'm sure we'll have a chat later and he'll tell me what he saw out there and have a plan for tomorrow.   
 Q.  You seem to be playing well just at the later part of the year the last couple months.  Why do you think that is?  
BRONTE LAW: It's hard to put my finger on it.  I think a lot of it comes down to experience of like playing, and playing in a lot of competitions and really taking what I can from each week and learning from each experience that I have whether it's good and bad.   
You know, I think that as long as I keep learning from those experiences, I hope to keep kind of moving on up.  It's definitely, as you were saying, like towards the end of the year right now, although it's tiring and you know there's been a lot of golf played, I do feel like I'm putting some solid rounds together.   
My putting has been a big difference.  It's gotten a lot better.  You know, the way that I've hit my irons and stuff, it means that I can create some really good birdie opportunities.   
 Q.  And you're 3-under par round this week, what do you think has been the key to your consistency so far?  
BRONTE LAW: I just think really taking my time over each shot and having a clear picture in my head what I wanted to do.  With the greens being grainy, it can be hard to chip around the greens and stuff.  But having a clear picture of what shot I want to hit has really made a big difference.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT