BUICK LPGA SHANGHAI
October 19, 2018
Bronte Law
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Bronte, very well played today.  Saw you hole some key putts out there to keep the score going.  
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, absolutely.  Pleased with my putting overall.  Had some really good par saves and some really good birdies.   
Hopefully I can continue to kind of carry those through the rest of the week.   
 Q.  We've seen you the last couple weeks, UL International Crown and in Korea last week.  We love watching you play.  You get pretty fired up out there.  You do a lot of fist pumping.  
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, you know, when I get on a roll it feels good, like it use my (Plane interference.)  Get pretty into it.   
Obviously at the Crown there was big crowds, and that was actually (indiscernible).   
 Q.  (Regarding playing as an amateur.)  How much are you enjoying it now as a professional on the big tour, the LPGA?  
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, it's always been my dream to be out here, so it's everything that I could ever wish for.  I just kind of pinch myself and enjoy every moment, because I know a lot of people would want to be in my shoes.  I appreciate all the good players out here, and kind of playing with the best in the world is always (indiscernible).   
 Q.  And you've got Big D on the bag.  He's an extra club, helping you out.  
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, absolutely.  We've been working a lot together, so hopefully continue that and have a good rest of the week.   
 Q.  You finished your round about 3:30.  Are you going to give your parents a call?  I think they're waking up now to a nice cup of tea.  
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, hopefully give them a call and -- yeah, hopefully they'll be pleased with my round today.   
 Q.  I'm sure they will.  Your dad has been a huge influence on your game.  
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, absolutely.  He's always a phone call away and always has lots of good advice for me mostly on the mental side of the game.  It's always really nice to talk to him after my round and tell him what I did good.  He's always there for me, which is really nice.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT