U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN
December 12, 2020
Bronte Law
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Shot par today.  How do you feel about that?
 BRONTE LAW:   Yeah, pretty good.  I think obviously lengthening the course and having the tough pins made it challenging, especially there was a lot of mud balls out there.
 So I hit the ball really well, but some of the shots obviously had balls flying everywhere in our group, so kind of made it difficult to really know how you were hitting it.  Couldn't go off feel.
 Makes it challenging when there are certain sides that you want to miss it on, and when you see the ball doing all sorts of stuff in the air it makes it difficult.
 Yeah, definitely happy with that.  Had some really good chances and made some really good pars.  So, yeah, definitely probably my best round in a while in terms of how I felt out there.
 Hoping for more of the same tomorrow.
 Q. This is your third U.S. Open.  How do you feel like your other two prepared you for this?
 BRONTE LAW:   I think just knowing that it's going to be tough.  There is never really many holes where you can say, This is a really good birdie chance.
 You've got work hard for it.  I think just knowing that from the start until the finish of the week it's going to be a grind, going to be a long week.  Just accepting that and knowing that coming into the week certainly has put me in good stead.
 Definitely requires a lot of patience and energy to string four good rounds together here.  Just learning how to prepare properly and how to balance getting enough rest with making sure that you kind of study the course well in the practice rounds.
 Obviously the added element of there being another golf course meant that the week has been really very long from start to finish.
 But I think that just exemplifies what really a U.S. Open is like.  It's always such a well-run event.  I think you get rewarded for good play.  And that's how a major should be.
 Q. Absolutely.  Tomorrow we're expecting a little bit of weather.  How do you prepare for that fourth and final round?
 BRONTE LAW:   Ultimately you can't do anything until you're there.  It's going to be even wetter I guess, so knowing that there will be mud balls again, just being patient, I think.
 It's really easy to get frustrated out there and lose track of the end goal.  But there is still chances out there.  Just takes a couple good shots to string together a birdie.
 No one seems to be like really running away with it.  So with there being some weather coming in, it could again mean that could be a lot of swinging going on on the leaderboard, which is another reason to hang in there.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT