ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
July 29, 2018
Bronte Law
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Pretty good day, what clicked out there for you?
BRONTE LAW: I have to say, it was the putting, definitely.  I kind of struggled in round two and round three with the putting.  They just weren't dropping and I started to create some other good chances on the front nine and took the opportunities when I got them.
It's funny, I still left a few out there on the back side.  I had some really good chances and just lipped-out.  It was a grind today.  It was really, really windy, and the rain hit and I was really pleased with how I held myself when the wind really got up.  Only had I think one bogey today.
Pretty pleased with that, considering the conditions.  Going into next week, it's nice to know that I can play in that sort of weather.
Q. How will it be next week, so close to home?
BRONTE LAW: It will feel really weird I think.  The last time I played in the Women's British Open and it was close to home, it was at Royal Liverpool and I was like 16, 17.  It was fun to have that experience but I'm going into this week a little bit different mind-set than that week where it was kind of just more for fun and see what I can do, whereas obviously going into this week, I'm playing some good golf right now and hoping to make something happen.
Q. Expect to see a lot of people who don't normally get the chance to watch you play?
BRONTE LAW: Absolutely.  Lots of people from my home club coming out.  I have lots of family members coming out for the occasion from across all of England.  I think it will be really cool to have them out.  I had a couple of family members out here today and it's always nice to see a friendly face when you're out there and it's raining and windy and yeah, it's really special to get to do that considering I play all the year without really getting to see them.
Q. What's your home club?
BRONTE LAW: Bramhall Golf Club.  It's like 45 minutes away from Lytham.  I think they are going to get a bus and hopefully there will be plenty.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT