KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 2018
Bronte Law
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 3-under par on a Saturday at a major; that's got to feel pretty good?
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, it does.  I mean, the conditions out there are pretty tough right now.  Obviously the course is set up long, and with it being windy, it's tough conditions.  But that's how it should be for a major, and I think that that's a really good thing because you've got to play some good golf to score well.  Kind of just really took every shot as it came, and I think that's key, really, whenever you're in a situation where there's so many tough holes ahead and just not getting ahead of yourself and taking each shot as it comes was huge for me today.
But yeah, feels good to shoot that.  You know, just going to do more of the same tomorrow really, take each shot as it comes.  I know we might get some weather, so that will be interesting, too, and hopefully we don't have to deal with that, but yeah, really happy with today.
Q. Do you feel like you thrive on tougher courses like this one?
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, I definitely think so.  I think I focus more.  You really have to focus in on your target, and you can't just fire it at the green.  You really have to like pinpoint exactly where on the green you want to be.  A lot of the times that might not even be like close to the flag, you know, which makes things interesting.  I did a really good job today of pinpointing exactly where on the green we wanted to land the ball, and focusing on that instead of the flag makes a big difference because you really want to leave yourself in some good spots on the greens.
Q. With how tough the course is, you're definitely in the mix going into Sunday at a major.  Are you comfortable?
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, absolutely.  I mean, it is, again, just the same as every week, but it's a tough golf course.  But I think that that's a good thing, and I'm looking forward to having that opportunity to be up there, and hopefully I can roll some putts in and see what I can do tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT