THORNBERRY CREEK LPGA CLASSIC
July 6, 2017
Bronte Law
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Net 67 is actually your best first-round score so far on the LPGA Tour, but before we get to your golf game, I want to congratulate you.  You just graduated from UCLA with a degree in sociology.  Take us through what that whole moment was like for you.  
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, it was amazing to have my family out there.  I hadn't seen them for a long time.  I think it was maybe January or February the last time I had saw them, so my mom was very emotional like seeing me graduate, walk across the stage, and it felt like a really big achievement because going to a school like UCLA and getting a degree is just something that you never know when you need to use it, and it's just -- I'm really proud of myself for keeping at it and finishing off this year.  Obviously got to do it with Alison, which was really special since we're such close friends, and we walked across the stage right after each other, so that was really cool.   
 Q.  And you guys posted some great photos on Instagram.  What has the transition been like for you so far?  You're young into your career as a professional.  This is, I believe, your eighth event that you've played.  What's gone smoothly and what do you sort of need to work on a little bit?  
BRONTE LAW: You know, for me, I talk to my dad a lot about like the mental side of the game, and it was mostly that side that was holding me back.  I think today I was really strict with myself and just stayed in it, took each shot as it came, didn't try and get ahead of myself.  You know, I think that is one of the main things that is the difference between shooting good scores and shooting some average scores, which I've found myself recently, and it just feels good to get a good score early on, and hopefully I can build on that for the rest of the week.   
You know, I kind of struggled the past two events, so I missed my first cut, and then at KPMG last week I didn't play as well as I would like to, so I've just been working on a couple of things in my game and really trying to trust my putting, and I feel like I'm on solid ground now.   
 Q.  What about this golf course and what it offers you?  
BRONTE LAW: Well, the greens are soft, so I like that.  You can really fire at the pins, and it's completely different from last week, really, you know, where you really had to take into account the slopes on the greens and where you want to leave yourself, and being below the hole was a huge thing.  Yeah, you can kind of just fire it at them and let it go really.  So I think it's a good golf course.  I think it'll be low scoring over the four days, and hopefully I can build on that score and take that on for the rest of the week.   
 Q.  I know an aggressive player like you loves to play aggressively on a course like this.  Congrats on a good solid start.  
BRONTE LAW: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT