U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2015
Bronte Law
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Did that match go about like you thought?  Did you think she'd put up a little bigger fight?  What was your thought, or did you have time to think about it?  BRONTE LAW: You know, for me I was just focusing on my own game.  I kind of started on the second hole when I hit my bunker shot from the fairway to like two feet.  Then I knew I was playing really well.  She made birdie on the par-3, I made birdie on the par-5, and then won the par-4 after that. I think it was closer than it kind of seemed, for me anyway, because she was always hitting really good shots.  It was kind of difficult out there this afternoon in that the balls weren't stopping on the green as easy.  It kind of firmed up a little.  You know, the pins were margin -- I would say the majority of them were towards the back of the green, which meant it was easy to run through the back and leave yourself a pretty difficult chip shot, and she had a couple of them and didn't make up-and-down.  For me, I was just focusing on playing solid golf and taking my chances when I got them.  I made a really good birdie on hole 14 after she made birdie on 13 to go dormie.  She made birdie on the par-5, and then closed it out on 16, so yeah.   Q.  Were you familiar with her at all coming into this, having just won the Girls' a couple weeks ago?  BRONTE LAW: Not really.  I'd heard things, but you always hear things, and I'd heard that she was a very long hitter for her age, which I certainly saw that.  But for me, I take each opponent -- I've learnt from match play experience that you have to treat every single opponent equally because someone has their hot day, someone doesn't, so I don't treat anyone differently out there on the course, and I think that's really important, because in the past I've done that in match play, and it's come back to bite me in the butt a couple times. Yeah, I knew she was a very good player.  She has a very good golf swing, and it was clear she was going to put up a fight.  I just had to really focus out there, and it was easy to get tired because it's a long day, so just tried to keep myself hydrated and just put myself in good positions in the fairway.  Yeah.   Q.  At this point in the tournament you're one of the older, more experienced players, and you just played a 15-year old, you've got a couple of underclassmen in the matches behind you.  What do you remember about when you were in their shoes as opposed to now?  You've had a lot of overseas experience, Curtis Cup, UCLA?  BRONTE LAW: Yeah, I think for me, I've learnt that you have a lot of surprises sprung on you in match play, and yesterday in the first match, that played in.  The girl I played with holed out her chip shot from the most unexpected place you would ever -- like you would be very, very happy to make up-and-down just like regular, so the fact that she holed it was -- it makes it difficult to take mentally, like you've got to be strong enough to say, okay, well, that's not going to happen again, and be upbeat about sort of situations like that.  For me that's one thing that I've definitely learnt.  When I was in their shoes, I probably didn't deal with it very well, and I would let myself get down and say, why me, this never happens normally, and I've just learnt that these things do happen, and it's not abnormal.  Everyone is really good here, so they're going to play some unbelievable shots, and you're just going to have to sort of like take your hat off to them and appreciate how good a shot it was instead of getting yourself down on the ifs and coulds of what could have happened, so yeah.   Q.  Bethany is like 5-up on your girl Lydia.  What do you think about that?  BRONTE LAW: I think Lydia has had a really good week.  I think to get to the last 16 is a really big achievement for her, something that -- yeah, I'm very proud of her because she's put a lot of hard work in last year when we were at college and didn't necessarily get a lot from it in the year, struggled a little, and she really did work hard.  So to see her getting some good results now is just really nice to see.  I know she'll give her a fight.  She won't just let her have it.  But obviously Bethany is a class player, very excited to have her coming, and I think it's a very exciting time to be a Bruin.   Q.  Did you take any time off after NCAAs or did you go right back into golf?  BRONTE LAW: No, three weeks.   Q.  What did you do?  BRONTE LAW: I was injured.   Q.  That's right, the hip.  BRONTE LAW: Yeah, I had some time out, which was definitely needed after a long season.   Q.  Had you ever done that before, taken three weeks off?  Do you remember the last time you did that?  BRONTE LAW: Yeah, I love taking time off.  No, like at the end of every season every year, I'll take about that time off, maybe a month.  When I wasn't at college at the end of the season around September time, you know, I would say a month off, and then the next time I would play would be probably like warm weather training somewhere.  I'm not the type of person that feels like, oh, if I don't play for a week that I'm going to lose my game.  I respect that as an athlete you need time off and you have to look after your body.  Yeah, I think that's a really important part of being a successful golfer, as well.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT