LPGA DRIVE ON CHAMPIONSHIP
July 29, 2020
Bronte Law
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  THE MODERATOR:   All right, welcome back here to the virtual media center at the LPGA Drive On Championship.  If you have a question, you can use the chat function on the call to make me aware.
 With that out of the way, I'm happy to be here with LPGA Tour winner and Rolex Ranking No. 32 Bronte Law.
 Bronte, how are you doing here today?
 BRONTE LAW:   I'm great.  I'm glad to be back.  Feels like a far too long a time that I've been gone, but it's just great to see all the familiar faces of the LPGA and all the players out here and caddies, everyone that is our LPGA family.
 You know, it doesn't go unnoticed the work they've had to do to get us back here.  I'm very appreciative of that and looking forward to getting back to work.
 THE MODERATOR:   Now let's take it back to after Australia.  We were just talking about it, but you did a bit the traveling as the spots world was kind of adjusting to the coronavirus pandemic.
 Take us through what happened after Australia and where you went and where you went back and forth to.
 BRONTE LAW:   Yeah, obviously after Australia with the Asia swing being canceled, I decided to go back to the U.K. and spend some time with my family, because I really didn't think I was going to be spending that much time with them over the course the year.  Looking back now that was obviously not to be.
 So after that I flew to Arizona to get ready for the start of the Founders.  Since I have a place out there, went out a week and a half before.  Was getting some practice in, checking in with my trainer.  It was actually my birthday weekend as well.
 So I had some friends coming out.  We were kind of just going to celebrate and everything was fine.  Then on my birthday was when the three LPGA events were canceled, so not the best 25th birthday.  But, yeah, that is how it went down.
 So then three days later it was kind of coming about that Trump was going to close borders and I might not be able to get back to the U.K.  Obviously with the three events being canceled I kind of thought, well, this is uncharted territory we're in.  For me, it was a time that you needed to be with your family, and obviously with my just being out in Arizona on my own I felt like it was the best choice to make to fly back to the U.K.
 At the time I thought, you know, maybe two months or something.  You know, it was obviously a lot longer than that in the end.  But had time with my family that I would never have gotten, and I'm very grateful for that.  I try and look at all the positives.  A very unfortunate situation that we've been put in where obviously a lot of people have really suffered and there has been terrible deaths from this.
 It's easy to get really down and see that life has changed dramatically and it's difficult.  And it is difficult.  Everyone is going through their own different version of this pandemic.
 But for me, I'm just trying to be grateful for the time I've had with my family and I've been fit and healthy throughout it.  You know, hopefully we are coming out the other side of that now.
 THE MODERATOR:   You say you spent a lot of time with your family.  What are some the quarantine processes like a across the ocean compared to maybe here in the U.S.?
 BRONTE LAW:   Well, the prime minister is a lot stricter than what you saw over here.  For us it was at the start like a strict lockdown.  You were allowed one hour form of exercise per day where you could go outside.  So like it was very much stay at home.  It was one grocery shop a week, and it was getting very familiar with every part of your house.
 So for me, I was lucky I had a gym at home.  I actually had a facility that I could practice on at home.  So very lucky to have that situation.  I know that.  People didn't have that because the golf courses were shut for a large proportion of the time I was in the U.K.  That meant getting used to hitting in the net and training virtually with my coaches.  You know, that's something that I've not really had to do in the past too much.
 But, yeah, things have been very different over there and they are starting to get a lot better now, but we did have a much stricter prolonged extension of the quarantine period.
 A lot of even takeaway places were closed and it was very much figuring out how to cook, which is something that I learned.  So all sorts of things that I wouldn't have had time to do that I've tried to just better myself in different areas that don't necessarily relate to golf, in all areas.
 But something that I think will put me in good stead for the rest of my life hopefully.
 THE MODERATOR:   It's definitely a different experience I think for so many people.  But as the courses started to open up, you were able to participate in something across the pond called the Rose Lady Series thanks to the efforts of Justin and Kate Rose.  What was it like being involved with those events, and did you prepare any differently for them or were they kind of to you a tune up or warm up for what was going to happen later on on the LPGA?
 BRONTE LAW:   Yeah, absolutely.  It's incredible what they've done.  I cannot thank Justin and his wife enough for what they've shown, the importance of women's golf.  That like he said, we don't want it any less than the guys do.  I think that's the huge thing that people often forget, is we work as hard as them and we don't necessarily get the opportunities that they have.
 But we are willing to do whatever we can to get those, and I think for him to show that and to give the girls in the U.K. that opportunity to, in a time like this, kind of show what they're made of is really incredible.
 Yeah, for me it was more to get back out on the course with a card in my hand and remember what that feels like.  It's very different than just playing at your home golf course and by yourself.
 Yeah, definitely for me helped in that aspect for coming back to play here in the States.
 THE MODERATOR:   So then you come back.  You have to quarantine before the Drive On Championship.  When did it kind of feel real that the LPGA Tour was coming back?
 BRONTE LAW:   As soon as I touched down in Arizona and I had scheduled to see my trainer.  We were doing workouts every day.  I was practicing every day.  You know, I had my caddie, Jeff, and we were working on some stuff in Arizona.
 As soon as I was on the course I was in this the gym.  I was like, this is happening.  And even though it was two weeks out, it felt like it was really some form of building up to something bigger, and I was just really excited to get the chance to work on areas of my game and just prepare like in the intensity that I was used to.  That's something that I really enjoyed.
 And now being here, it feels even more real, and I'm really looking forward to get going, and hopefully we have a prolonged stretch of golf that we have coming up and that we can play the remainder the season.
 THE MODERATOR:   Have you been out yet at Inverness?  And if you have, what has the course been like for you what do you like most about it?
 BRONTE LAW:   It's an incredible golf course.  I played 18 holes this morning and it is as good a condition of a golf course that I've seen in a long time - minus the fact that I've not seen many golf courses.
 But, yeah, it's really in good shape.  You know, thinking obviously a year down the line, I think that it's going to be a fantastic golf course that will be shown in the Solheim Cup.
 THE MODERATOR:   If you'd like to ask a question, please let us know in the chat function.  But as people start writing in the chat, you just mentioned it, this is a sneak peek for you for the 2021 Solheim Cup.
 As you look ahead to next year, what's that like to be able to get a taste of somewhere where you I assume would like to be playing next year?
 BRONTE LAW:   Absolutely, yeah.  I think I played here actually three years ago in a pro-am when I was playing at Marathon.  Even then just playing it I was like, Wow, this is a really good golf course.  Obviously hadn't even played in my first Solheim Cup then when I was thinking that, but I knew I wanted to be here.  Solheim is definitely something that I know I want to be a huge part of my career.
 Yeah, looking forward to next year.  Like this will be a really good test I think.  It gets a little windy out there and there is lots of elevation changes in places.  You have to be smart for sure.
 So I think thinking your way around, and in terms of it being a match play course, there be a lot of great golf on show for sure.
 THE MODERATOR:   Will be definitely interesting.  We'll start with Randall.
 Q. Just a question about coming back amid the pandemic.  Is there some trepidation?  What's it like for to you venture out now?
 BRONTE LAW:   In terms of coming back from the U.K.?
 Q. Just in terms of going into public for a tournament when there is still the coronavirus?  Any fears?  Concerns?  What's it like for you?
 BRONTE LAW:   I mean, obviously if you test positive that is an issue.  Then you can't play.  So that's my main concern at the moment.  Then on top of that, if I did have it, making sure that I'm not one of those people that is going to give it to someone else.
 Ultimately there is a bigger picture here right now.  It's great to be back playing golf, but I don't want to be responsible for giving it to someone else.  So there are a couple things about being out and about, and I just think being very diligent and careful, making sure that you're using hand sanitizer, wiping everything down.
 As long as I keep doing that and everyone else is doing that, I think that hopefully that's taken care of and there doesn't need to be too much worry about me possibly having that passed on or getting it.
 Q. Sure.  And then just what's it like in this new world now?  Are there new habits that you're creating?  Like, oh, do I have my mask, don't hug?  What's that like?
 BRONTE LAW:   Yeah, it's definitely different.  I think for me, I spoke with my caddie and my family before I came out here, and I told them that I think it's really important to expect the fact that things are going to be different and not get too caught up in the fact that I can't have my routine that I usually have.
 There is going to be things that are going to change, and you need to be able to adapt even more than you usually do as a professional athlete.  I've told myself that from the start and I'm going to really try and stay positive throughout this and look at the bigger picture.  Hopefully I can get some good results in there as well.
 Q. I'm curious, Inverness is not an easy course by any means.  Starting out on such, I don't know, difficult conditions, do you think that will be hard for the players?
 BRONTE LAW:   I do think it's certainly a challenge.  We did go out there today and mentioned something along the lines of it being a U.S. Open standard golf course.  Especially after not playing in a while kind of being thrown in at the deep end, per se, is something that I think will definitely be a challenge; but one that I think everyone here is ready for and ready to be back playing.
 So no matter how difficult it plays, I think that everyone will be embracing the fact that we're back, and I think that kind of it's one of those if you start difficult, then hopefully the events afterwards don't seem as intense.
 But just really happy to be here playing on a world class golf course.
 Q. Seems like the LPGA is trying to do their best to create a bubble these first two weeks.  Two events essentially in the same area.  Obviously doing tons of testing, all that.  Limited media, no fans.  I don't know, does that make you feel pretty safe because of all those measures?
 BRONTE LAW:   Yeah, I think the LPGA is doing everything they can right now to provide an environment that is safe for us and also safe for the communities around us.
 Right now I do feel like this is the case.  There is very strict measures.  There is limited people on site, like you said.
 Ultimately, I really hope that we can put on a show that we haven't been able to for a while and be able to maintain health on the tour and also in the areas that we're traveling to.
 Q. You're obviously someone who feeds off a crowd; we saw that in Solheim Cup last year.  What's it going to be like for you playing so many events in a row without any fans?  This one in particular.  You don't have any friends or family either.
 BRONTE LAW:   Yeah, I think obviously it's different.  Like I said, this year is just one of those years where things are going to be different and we have to accept that and get on with it basically.  There is no point dwelling on things and making excuses for -- fact is that ultimately we can't control right now.
 For me, ultimately there is going to be people watching.  They're just not necessarily going to be there.  You always have to imagine they're there and you're playing to the camera even more than normal.
 Just really happy to be back out here, and I know that all the people that are supporting me will be doing so whether that's via the LPGA app or watching scoring or anything like that.  The support is still going to be there.
 So many people that have reached out to me and said they're really looking forward to seeing me back.  I think just hearing things like that in itself gives you the boost that you need.  Sometimes you end up blocking out fans more than you realize when you're playing anyway.
 Yeah, the celebrations are going to be a little different, but you just got to get friendly with your caddie, you know.
 Q. Will you still fist pump do you think?
 BRONTE LAW:   Absolutely.  I do that for me, not for other people.
 Q. Tell us about your Solheim Cup experience, what that did for you as a player, whether you think it elevates your game.  What did you get out of it?
 BRONTE LAW:   Yeah, I think massively.  You do things during the Solheim Cup that you didn't even know that you could do.  Given the amount of people that are watching as well, it's being able to step up to the plate at that point in time and perform.
 That proves a lot to yourself when you can do that.  I think the fact that I went off the back of Solheim and played a really, really solid week Indianapolis the week after just shows what that can do for you.  I was absolutely exhausted but, in the frame of mind that I knew I could play well and that I was in good form, and there was absolutely nothing holding me back.
 I think the Solheim is one of those where it can make or break you.  It's an incredibly intense event.  There is so much going on during the week that people don't even realize, whether that's media obligations or just the really long days, the buildup of it all.
 For me, I just absolutely loved that.  I loved the whole feeling of it from start to finish.  You know, I hope that I can just carry that into my events on a weekly basis, whether that's majors that I really enjoy as well because of the hype around them.
 Hopefully getting back now we kind of see the same hype that we have for those big events.
 Q. And then Suzann made the clinching putt, but obviously what you did right before that was pivotal.  Tell us about that, the thrill of what you did in the closing moments.
 BRONTE LAW:   Yeah, I think at the time obviously it was huge in terms of us winning.  That was all I was thinking about, what can I do?  All I need to do is get my point to allow us to win.
 Looking back on it now, the actual importance and the, you know, need for my point to allow Suzann to close her career like that, I kind of realize how much bigger it is.  It's way bigger than me.  It's way bigger than the Solheim Cup.  It was something really special that I got to be a part of.
 I've grown up idolizing Suzann being one of the best players of this generation.  And not only that, but the way she carries herself, I very much have always seen her as a role model.
 For me to be a part of her kind of closing statement is something that I feel very special to be a part of.  It's something that I will always have.  So, yeah, that was -- looking back on it now I think I realize how big that moment really was, and to be a part of that is something very special and something I'll cherish definitely for the rest of my career.
 Q. With the Whoop bands that you guys all wear, just wondering what your thoughts are on that technology and all the stuff that it tells you.
 BRONTE LAW:   Yeah, I think it's really exciting.  It's incredible that they've obviously partnered with the LPGA to provide us all with each band and our caddies, too.
 I think that the fact that they've caught cases before they've been able to test people based on the respiratory dips and rises, I think that's something that is really important for us right now, because obviously not everyone is having symptoms.  If that can prevent, then I'm all for it.  If that can see us into certain situations where we can prevent someone who has a case from being at the golf course or in an environment where there are other players and stop the spread, then I think it's definitely something that we should utilize.
 THE MODERATOR:   We have one more from Randall as well.
 Q. I thought of one more.  Bronte, there is -- there are more live sports to watch right now, but still not a lot of them.  What kind of opportunity do you think this might be for women to (cut out) other audience?
 BRONTE LAW:   Yeah, I was actually hoping that other sports would hold off a little bit longer just to give us our shot to really show the world what we have.  But even like you said, there is still limited amounts of sports on TV, and I think it's a great opportunity for the LPGA to show the world the talent that we have out here.
 Because we definitely have it.  We might not always get credit for what we produce, but now is our shot.  I really hope we can get more people interested in the women's side and that they can see really what we have to show.
 Q. Great.  Okay.  These it for me.  Thanks.
 THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, Randall.  One last wrap up before we get going?  Any more questions for Bronte?  All right, I think that's it from everyone.  Thank you all for joining and thank you Bronte for sitting down with us.
 BRONTE LAW:   Thank you for having me.  Good to talk to you all.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT