SOLHEIM CUP
September 13, 2019
Bronte Law
Carlota Ciganda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Thanks for joining us, Bronte. That was an epic match this afternoon. Two important halves, as you said, and it was a grind out there. Can you talk us through this afternoon's match?
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, it was really a grind. Obviously played both matches down to the 18. So definitely a lot of energy exhausted today. But I just think the fact that we were down in both matches, fairly close to the end and managed to come up with a half in both of them just shows really we never gave up.
And although we were one up going down 18, the girls, they holed a good putt to win. Obviously still a half is a half. Pretty happy to not be defeated today. So going to try and carry that into tomorrow.
THE MODERATOR: You were two down after 14 and then won three holes in a row, holed a massive putt on 15. What did that feel like; what was going through your mind after that?
BRONTE LAW: It felt really good. I want to hole long putts because that was fun. I'm going to try to go out there tomorrow and do more of the same, get the crowd behind us and hopefully bring home four points after the morning session.
Q. How are you feeling? Are you exhausted? Are you mentally exhausted or physically exhausted? It's a long day, isn't it?
BRONTE LAW: No, I feel all right. Could probably play nine. No, I feel pretty good. I think obviously running on a lot of adrenaline right now. But that's why we keep fit and all that good stuff so that we can compete and play 36 holes in one day and go out and do the same again tomorrow.
Q. Bronte, can you just take us through that first tee shot this morning? I know it was a long time ago, but just what the atmosphere felt like?
BRONTE LAW: It was amazing walking through the front, like, the little tunnel thing to get there. That was crazy, yeah. I think it was a lot of fun. I tried to endure the experience, but it was when everybody got quiet when it really set in that, wow, there's a lot of people here and it's quiet.
So I just tried to take some deep breaths and focus on the shot and it was pretty happy to get the follow in.
Q. What do you think makes this a good partnership? Why do you work well together?
BRONTE LAW: Obviously Carlota is an incredible golfer is a veteran Solheim Cupper. So for me, I can look up to her and she gives me some advice and keeps me calm out on the course. And that's definitely something that I really value. And I think we get along very well in general outside of the course, so naturally it works well.
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Between a great day playing with Bronte. I like how she plays. She's very feisty. I really like that. I think we gave it all. It was just tough, that 18th hole, but I think one point for the team is all that matters, and hopefully we can win a few more tomorrow.
Q. Carlota, I think it's fair to say you enjoyed putting on the 17th green today?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: Yeah, it's been a very good hole for us. Yeah, those two birdies, they were really, really good, especially to be one up on that last one, I know we couldn't lose after being two down, four holes to play.
And I just enjoyed the atmosphere. I love playing here in Europe. All the fans were great. And I just want to win for all of them.
Q. The Americans didn't win the day, but winning that 18th hole back-to-back, Solheim Cups and match play is so much about momentum swings. How do you guys deal with those momentum shifts?
BRONTE LAW: I don't think that they have the momentum shift right now. Ultimately they're two up with four holes to play and they got away with a half. I mean, to me that just shows you that towards the end we're fighting and we're right there. And we're going to go out tomorrow. And even though we're ahead we're going to act like we're behind, and we're going to go and get every point we can.
Q. One of the announcers likened you -- said you were Poulter-ish in your celebrations, Bronte.
BRONTE LAW: Really? Obviously I can't see myself. So but I do just act on how I feel.
Q. Are you an Ian Poulter fan? He's an obviously good Ryder Cup player?
BRONTE LAW: He's a very good Ryder Cup player. If I achieve what he achieves in the Solheim Cup, I'll be pretty happy.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT