SOLHEIM CUP
September 13, 2019
Bronte Law
Carlota Ciganda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What an extraordinary day, long one, ultimately how would you describe it?
BRONTE LAW: Yeah, it was a grind. Obviously both of our matches went up to 18 with two halves and two important halves. I think that will all really keep (indiscernible) and in our corner going into tomorrow.
Q. You showed terrific fighting spirit, two down after 14 and then three holes in a row that went your way before the drama on the 18. So it was just one of those days where we all kept guessing from start to finish wasn't it?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: It's not easy playing morning and afternoon. We played some good holes, really good 16 and 17. And, yes, that's the same at 18, but I mean we haven't lost one point for the whole day. And I think it's good to keep adding some new points.
Q. I imagine you want to go lie down as soon as possible and possibly get ready for just as busy a day tomorrow?
BRONTE LAW: Absolutely, get some rest and come out fighting harder than ever.
Q. How would you sum up the spirit on the European side? I know you haven't had a chance to chat, but there's been a lot of support for the match (indiscernible)?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: It's great. All of us here on the team, we're all one, we're in this together and it's been great so far.
Q. You were down early and then the comeback. Tell me about it.
BRONTE LAW: Obviously going one up, going down 18, you obviously hope to finish it off, but they played the hole great and our putt just slipped by. So, I mean, we were two down, we've got four to play or something like that. So to be one up going down 18 just shows that we have plenty of fight left in us and we'll be continuing to do the same tomorrow.
Q. That was a fantastic putt on 17. Just walk me through that?
CARLOTA CIGANDA: I was ready this morning, and I had a good feeling. I (indiscernible) for the break. Bronte helped me, she said it was going to go in. That was unbelievable. Same thing we didn't (indiscernible) team, but I think it's good. It's a good week for us.
Q. Two down, fantastic birdied you made on 15. Take me through that great putt?
BRONTE LAW: We were walking down 15 and we had to do something. We had to start making birdies. So we did. Just put a good putt on and I've been rolling it really well. Just missed the putt the hole before, so really wanted to make up for that. And obviously we were running out of holes, so we had to make some moves.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT