ROSE BOWL GAME: IOWA VS STANFORD
December 28, 2015
Nate Meier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








An interview with:
NATE MEIER
Q. When you go up against a team that runs with style, which they do, the power, they do zone stuff, on the front, how do you disrupt those things?
NATE MEIER: Well, we've played those type of teams all year.  In the Big Ten Conference, that's what a lot of people run.  So people have to take on double teams and attack the gaps.  That's how you defeat that.
Q. When you get in those moments, it seems like your team relishes huge stages when it's 3rd and short, when it's 4th and short.  How have you gotten to that mentality that you guys rise up when you're called upon?
NATE MEIER: Our coach always harps on just being hungry, humble and focused.  So when those points, I mean, those things come up upon the game, you have to take it upon yourself to get the stop and they're going to get the first down.  So you have to have the mindset that you're never going to lose.
Q. How about Kevin Hogan and his legs?  You talk about staying in your rush lanes?
NATE MEIER: Yeah, he's a great dual-threat quarterback.  Lot of people don't really realize that he can run like that.  I think he has great legs and he can pass the ball too.
Q. Lastly, defensively, you guys run what you run.  What's that mentality like within the 11 on the defensive side of the ball?  Is there a swagger about it?  You know what's coming.
NATE MEIER: Yeah, that's pretty much what it's like.  Coach Parker likes to pretty much keep it simple and play base.  You've just got to stop it.
Q. Can you talk about your excitement of being here?  What does it feel like since you've been here?
NATE MEIER: It's been great.  The weather has been great here and the people have been great here.  We've been having a lot of fun.  We went to Disneyland, and it was a great time.  Pretty much just been relaxing after that.
Q. What's been the highlight thus far of your visit?
NATE MEIER: Probably just seeing Beverly Hills and stuff like that.
Q. Is it what you expected it to be?
NATE MEIER: Kind of, you know.  I've watched a lot of movies in my day, so I've seen it then.
Q. Talk about the business aspect.  Once you step out on the field come January 1, what's it going to feel like for you?  Can you imagine what your emotions are going to be like?
NATE MEIER: I mean, it's going to be an awesome experience just stepping on the Rose Bowl field and really just one of those deals that it's going to be my last college football game, so it's a great opportunity.  I'm blessed to play it in the Rose Bowl.
Q. What are the keys that you think are going to be crucial to coming out victorious?
NATE MEIER: Playing Iowa football.  That's going to be the key.  Also executing what the coaches call.  And the other thing is just making sure tackles.
Q. Is it a dream come true for you?
NATE MEIER: Yeah, you know, playing college football, playing in the Rose Bowl.  I mean, "The Granddaddy of Them All."
Q. What's the motivation and inspiration for you as a person, as a player?
NATE MEIER: To play for my family, play for myself, and play for this team.
Q. What's the bowl experience been like for you so far?
NATE MEIER: It's been a great experience.  Just being out in California is great, great weather, great people.
Q. Best thing you've done so far?
NATE MEIER: Oh, yeah, I think this is hands down the best bowl we've gone to, and of course it's "The Granddaddy of Them All."
Q. As a kid, did you grow up thinking about this game?  It's such a big game for a Big Ten team.
NATE MEIER: Yeah, it's just one of those deals.  I don't know if as a kid, but I'd say when I got into like 8th grade, freshman year, that's when I started really watching that.  Yeah, it's always awesome to watch the Rose Bowl.
Q. How many people are coming out from Tabor?
NATE MEIER: I'm not sure, but a lot.
Q. Half the town going to be out there?
NATE MEIER: I don't know about half the town, but there's quite a few of them.
Q. How has the practice side of things gone for you?  Are you feeling better?  Stronger?
NATE MEIER: Yeah, every day I get more and more reps, so that's always positive.
Q. You've got some young players on that line.  Who has impressed you during bowl prep when guys make a lot of progress?
NATE MEIER: I would say the biggest progress person would be Jake Hulett.  Yeah, he's stepping up pretty good.  Yeah, I would say him that's really impressed me the most, just getting off blocks, reading the keys.  Because he's an undersized guy and he plays hard.
Q. Have you seen that huge growth from Matt Nelson as he's gotten the most snaps this year?
NATE MEIER: Yeah, Matt Nelson, he's a good player.  Actually, I forgot about him, but he plays (laughing).
Q. He's made that leap?
NATE MEIER: Yeah, you know, he's a good player.  He's a very technical player.  His form's usually pretty good, and he's just getting off blocks faster now and pass rushing more, he's getting to the quarterback.
Q. When Drew [Ott] went down midseason, what, in your view, kept the defensive end together chemistry-wise?  Guys still making plays?  What were one or two components that you really felt held everybody together and you lose a sack master like him?
NATE MEIER: Yeah, it's just one of those deals, it was pretty tough when we lost Drew.  We had to stick together.  Our group together is really close, and he knew that.  Every day he still calls it down, brings us together.  It's just one of those deals, and he's still there.  We'll never forget that.
Q. Clearly he's down there helping, what's he bring to the sideline?
NATE MEIER: It's a different view of the game.  Like when you're out there, you don't see it all.  So when we come back to the sideline, Drew is asking, how are they hanging, are they high, are they low?  Is he punching right away?  Is he pulling it back?  How is the reach blocking, are they cut off?  He can see that.  Also you have the people upstairs.
Q. Nate, Christian McCaffrey, what makes him so good?
NATE MEIER: He's a hard runner.  He's fast, and he has great line.
Q. How do you go about stopping him?  Does it help they play a Big Ten-style offense?
NATE MEIER: Stopping him you've just got to tackle him.  Just sure tackling, I should say, because a lot of people do try to tackle him and they're not very successful.  But, yeah, sure tackling and just got to get off the blocks.
Q. What has gotten you through and collectively pulled you guys together?
NATE MEIER: With Drew going down, is that what you're asking?  When Drew went down, it was tough because I'm used to looking across and seeing like one of my really good friends and also a dominant player.  Then those few games where I didn't see him and he came back and it was like, man, just like old times, seeing him.  But then he went down again, for good.  But he was pretty tough.  But Parker Hesse has really stepped up his game, and he's doing a great job.
Q. From your perspective, how is he doing?
NATE MEIER: I think great.  I think he's doing really good, you know.  Treatment's going well.  He's progressing very well.
Q. It's a tough situation to be in.  Does that speak to his fabric, his makeup?
NATE MEIER: I mean, at first, yeah, it did tear him apart, of course.  I mean, everyone, the whole D-line and coaching staff, was behind him.  If you needed anything, just let us know.  But he's dealing with it a lot better now and just trying to get healthy.
Q. Does it make you appreciate everything a little more?
NATE MEIER: Yeah, yeah.  Just trying to get healthy, yeah.
Q. Has this been a good trip?
NATE MEIER: Yeah, it's been a great trip.  Just the weather is a lot nicer than the blizzard that I think is going on now.
Q. What are the biggest challenges in defending someone like Christian McCaffrey?  I mean, I'm sure you guys haven't played anyone quite as dynamic as him.
NATE MEIER: Yeah, he's a great running back, so you've just got to get off your blocks and tackle him, make sure tackles.
Q. From what you've seen on tape, what are the biggest challenges he presents?  What are his special skills?
NATE MEIER: I would say he's very shifty, he's fast and he's a good runner.  He's a hard runner too.
Q. The Stanford offensive line, they kind of remind you of any offensive line you've faced this year, maybe your own?
NATE MEIER: Yeah, pretty much, I would say they're close to ours and Wisconsin's.  They're big, physical, and a veteran group.
Q. Coach Parker, what's that kind of like to play for him?  What kind of coach has he been?  How critical has he been to this season's success?
NATE MEIER: It's an honor to play for Coach Parker.  He's the type of guy he wants stuff done right and he wants it done perfectly.  He's very particular in what he wants.  He's a great guy and a great coach.
Just like I said, I'm honored to play for him.  With success for him, he's handled it very well, because he keeps us humble and he always tells us:  Hungry, humble, and focused.
Q. When we ask the Stanford defense who sticks out, it's C.J. Beathard.  When we ask about the offense, they say Josey Jewell.  What's Josey meant to your defense and what's he bring to the table?
NATE MEIER: He's a downhill player.  He'll hit you anywhere, and he makes sure tackles.
Q. How's it going, Nate?
NATE MEIER: Pretty good.
Q. Are you having fun?
NATE MEIER: Yeah, I'm having a lot of fun.
Q. It's getting to be knuckle time?
NATE MEIER: Yep, Yep, it's crunch time.
Q. What about Stanford?
NATE MEIER: They're a good group all the way around -- offense, defense, special teams.
Q. And they have one fella to look out for in McCaffrey?
NATE MEIER: Yep, he's a good running back.  We're going to have to keep him contained and tackle well.
Q. The workouts, would you say they've been normal for Iowa coming into the Rose Bowl?
NATE MEIER: Yeah, we've been passing a lot, and that's normal for Iowa.
Q. Like on Christmas Day?
NATE MEIER: Yeah, we practiced on Christmas Day.  It was definitely a grind.
Q. And your visit to Disney and to California Adventure, what did you ride?
NATE MEIER: I rode the Cars ride and played a lot of games, I guess.  Just hung out and walked around.  I forgot what it's called.
Q. Is that the first trip to Disney?
NATE MEIER: Yeah, first time going there, yeah.
Q. Have the workouts been normal as far as time, or have they been shortened?
NATE MEIER: I think they're exactly the same.  Just even our lifts and stuff like that.
Q. The routine has been Iowa's?
NATE MEIER: Yep, Yep.
Q. The most dangerous man on the Stanford team is McCaffrey?
NATE MEIER: Yeah, I would agree, but also --
Q. What about the quarterback?
NATE MEIER: Yeah, I was going to say that.  He's a very good quarterback.  Also they have a veteran offensive line, so they're dangerous too, so it's going to be a great game.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT