U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 3, 1996
Isao Aoki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ISAO AOKI:  This year I had three-time second place and another I played very well, but this tournament, I am going to be very tough, but I am going to be win.  Played very good this year.  It was a hard competition this year, but I had confidence this year, this tournament. Second place - three times second place, and then feel very good this week.

ISAO AOKI:  This U.S. Open three-time I participate. Every time USGA setting very good -- setting is the best.  I try to play good game.

ISAO AOKI:  I have played 18 holes yesterday.  I am not sure which hole is difficult, which hole going to be tough or wind or some condition.  I am going to practice another 18 holes today; then I will be ready.  This course is very tough  every hole, have to be relaxed; should be patient; tension all hole.


Q.  How difficult do you think it is to win two weeks in a row?

ISAO AOKI:  If I play my golf, the result will come. But I am very -- I play very well, just play my golf; then results will come later.


Q.  Do you enjoy playing greens that are this fast?

ISAO AOKI:  This one; not only me - for everybody, same condition, but I think game going to be -- maybe putting is very important this week.  And I am going to be relax and do best my golf.


Q.  Last year you almost won the Senior Open on a very tough long course.  What are the differences here than last year at Congressional?

ISAO AOKI:  Maybe New York and Ohio are different, Ohio place, but USGA setting course is very historical and very tough, but I am playing -- I have been playing very -- enjoy and I am hoping to play well then going to good place.

ISAO AOKI:  Everybody has chance to win this tournament because everybody is a good player.  I am not sure who is favorite to this course, should be -- I don't know who will win after tournament finish.  I think if win must be good  putter and every shot, every combination, good combination, that is very important too.  Not only putter, not only shot, everything good combination.


Q.  Did you enjoy doing your television work at the U.S. Open?

ISAO AOKI:  I was very enjoyed it, but I wish -- pray that course-- I wish play that course.

ISAO AOKI:  I have no problem now, but maybe four or five tournaments, I be TV commentator.


Q.  This year you have had an amazing record, consistent. What part of your game has been the strongest, why you have so much confidence this year?

ISAO AOKI:  I have been very relaxing to play golf because I have been staying in the United States now long time now.  I know United States and I love United States.  Also many fans love me and they are cheering me.  It is more relaxing to play; that going to add to my strong confidence.

ISAO AOKI:  (NOT THROUGH INTERPRETER)  I like the putt.  Not interview.  No speak English.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT