U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 28, 2002
Isao Aoki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  MARTY PARKES:  It's my pleasure to welcome Mr. Isao Aoki to the interview area.  And if he could start off by going through the round today by talking about the birdies and bogeys.

ISAO AOKI:  Second hole, driver, pitching wedge,  ten feet.

Driver, 3-wood, almost eagle, tap-in birdie on No. 3.

Driver, 4-iron, 1 foot -- 1.5 feet.

On No. 7, driver, 3-wood, approach wedge about 6 feet. 

No. 10, 4-wood off the tee into a divot, then 3-putt for bogey.

No. 12, 6-iron about five feet.

No. 13, good driver, good 3-wood about 40 yards left, got it on the green, backed up and 3-putted from there.

18, driver, 4-wood -- 5-wood, left side, chip and missed about ten feet, missed a 10-footer for par.

Two rounds, I've had ten birdies.  Yesterday's triple on 7 really hurt.
I want to bury that bunker on 18 tomorrow, can you do something about it tonight? 

I'm joking about burying the bunker, but yesterday, I put it in the bunker in front of the green and the ball ended up on top of the rock, so if you could get rid of the rock.  If someone could clean that bunker out, that would be good enough (laughter.) Because I'm a good bunker player.
Q.  You seem to have a good round going through the first nine holes until you hit that bogey on ten, then you got animated in the fairway where you struck your club down, did that disrupt you at all, No. 10, before you went on to 3-putt?

ISAO AOKI:  The reason I slammed my club is, I hit a good shot and it ended up in a divot, so that's what I was upset about.  I took a big divot, so I was fixing his divot, put it back together.  Were you watching?  I put it back nicely.
Q.  You were in contention last year at the final hole, how determined are you to win it this year and what would it mean to win it this year?

ISAO AOKI:  I have two more rounds yet.  I would like to answer that after the next two rounds:  After two more rounds, and if I'm up here on Sunday I'll probably cry if I win.
Q.  Why?

ISAO AOKI:  Two more days I'll try.   Last year I finished second, and if I win this year I'll be quite happy.  



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT