U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 1, 2001
Isao Aoki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ISAO AOKI (Through Translator):  Today and yesterday, bogeyed first two holes yesterday and bogeyed the first hole today. 3-putted number 1 today.  And hit a bad tee shot on 2, sideways, had to punch out. Then he chunked the sand wedge and putted from 20 yards and it went in for par.  On 7 he hit the wrong club for his second shot and did not hit a very good chip shot.  On 8 hit his drive in the right rough, missed the green left.  He said the way the USGA had this set up, the pins, it was a difficult chip to chip close.  He made a good par on 9.  Bad tee shot, so bogey on 10.  Bogey.  Then he played steady and made birdie on 14.  But 17 was a killer.  Bogey, par bogey was 11, 12, 13, I think.  But he didn't say the numbers.  Just the scores.  He said putt on 17, a little disappointing, but he hasn't been playing very good.  He finished second earlier in the year, but he's quite happy because he held on until the end.  He said he hasn't had many top 10's this year, but with this, a little confidence, and he would like to thank the USGA for having him and having a tough course for him to play. 
 
 
Q.  What did you hit into 17, what club?  You came up short.
 
ISAO AOKI (Through Translator):  Second shot? 
 
Q.  Second shot.
 
ISAO AOKI (Through Translator):  6-iron.  It went over the bunker. 
 
Q.  6-footer?
 
ISAO AOKI (Through Translator):  He said 3, 4 feet, he chunked his chip, but it ended up good.  But his second shot he had 175 over the bunker, but he didn't get it there.  He says he played, last week played in Boston.  This week in Boston.  Very old course and a very nice Salem Country Club.  So he's quite happy. 
 
Q.  What did you think of Jim Colbert's troubles on the last hole?
 
ISAO AOKI (Through Translator):  I don't know.  Miss 17. He's at 18.  Miss downslope from the rough.  My lie is downslope.  Downhill lie in the thick rough.  Just pulled it.  Same thing he had on 17. 
 
Q.  You said you hadn't been playing well coming into this. You had the lead after this morning finishing up the third round. How did you feel you had been playing at that point?  At any point in the round, did you feel you had your game going?
 
ISAO AOKI (Through Translator):  He said he played five holes in the morning and 18, and he hung in there.  And he thought he had a chance.  Except 17 kind of was a little disappointing.  He thinks he always had a chance or he wouldn't show up at a golf  tournament. 
 
Q.  Did this bring back any memories of seeing Jack Nicklaus move up the leaderboard back to when you were playing in 1980?
 
ISAO AOKI (Through Translator):  20 years ago, 20 years ago Jack, very young boy.  And now he's getting old.  Actually enjoyed playing golf. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT