US OPEN
September 5, 1998
David Nainkin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How do you think you played today? 
 
 DAVID NAINKIN: Obviously not very good. It's a different condition. You know, I haven't
really played inside. The wind is really tough to handle as far as it's pretty swirling,
going one way down the court. You know, he used the wind much better than I did. 
 
Q. David, did you see anything in his game which may or may not suggest he could go all
the way?
 
 DAVID NAINKIN: I mean, you know, Pat, you kind of know what he's going to do, you know.
He's a smart player. I could see now why he does well in that court because, you know,
high-bouncing balls, suits his kick serve, tough to get by him at the net. He doesn't miss
too many balls from the back. He kind of held me to within ten, 15, 20 shots sometimes,
then eventually won the point. He's different. He's dangerous. 
 
Q. David, was this stadium -- the first time you played?
 
 DAVID NAINKIN: In this one, yes.  
 
Q. Was this just an overwhelming experience?
 
 DAVID NAINKIN: No. I wouldn't say it's overwhelming. I've played center court. I don't
think it's an overwhelming experience. Pat played pretty well. You know, I just got -- I
think I got worse as the match went on. I just didn't settle down ever. Just one of those
days. 
 
Q. Were you nervous?
 
 DAVID NAINKIN: No different from other matches I've played, you know. You're always a
little nervous to start off. I just didn't settle down. 
 
Q. Did you sense in the third set that he had at all eased up any? Was he playing just
as hard?
 
 DAVID NAINKIN: He was playing about the same. You know, he was actually starting to his
hit his serve a little harder in the third set. He was kicking it most of the time, then
he was going for a few. I think all three sets are pretty much the same. 
 
Q. Sometimes a test of attitude when you've got -- you're sort of in cruise control,
you get in that third set?
 
 DAVID NAINKIN: I didn't count myself out, even when I was down 3-1-a break in the
third. I never count myself out. But, you know, he kept on firing first serves down, not
really giving me any rhythm. Never gave me a chance -- if I'm playing bad -- to get back
into it. That's why he's a top five players because he'll just close you out if you're not
having a good day. 
 
Q. In the sixth game of the last set, you hit a dropshot that against anybody else
would have been pretty perfect. He just took off, scooped it.
 
 DAVID NAINKIN: That was against the wind. I didn't think he'd get it at all. He hit a
hell of a shot once he got there. I mean, that was a good get, yeah. 
 
Q. Does that tell you anything about the match, it's not going to happen?
 
 DAVID NAINKIN: No. I mean, just was -- you can expect shots like that from top players.
I mean, I thought I hit a pretty good dropshot. 
 
Q. Who is the highest ranked player you've ever beaten?
 
 DAVID NAINKIN: I beat Ferreira. He was ranked sixth two years ago. 
 
Q. If this comes down to a Sampras-Rafter semifinal, what's the difference between
those two?
 
 DAVID NAINKIN: Between those two? I've never played Sampras. I would just guess whoever
is having the better day. You've got to probably favor Sampras a little more, got a little
more all-around game. Rafter, he's got a good serve and volley game to beat Sampras. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT