U.S. OPEN
August 28, 1996
David Nainkin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Are you excited?

DAVID NAINKIN: That's an understatement.

Q. This is your first Grand Slam win.

DAVID NAINKIN: Yes.

Q. Can you put it into words?

DAVID NAINKIN: I was O for 6, O for 5. I've had some tough draws. I just really wanted,
no matter if I won or lost, to prove something to myself in Grand Slams, that I could come
out and play good tennis. I didn't come out maybe expecting to win, but I wanted to come
out and play the best tennis I could for myself and to be happy with myself, to be able to
look in the mirror and say I gave the best.

Q. Was there a point during the match where that changed into thinking, "I can win
this thing"?

DAVID NAINKIN: Maybe when I went 4-2 down, started off a little nervous. Then I broke
back at 4-All and I held my serve. For the first time I realized, you know, it's head on
head, that I had a break. It was happening fast out there. Didn't really realize it. 6-4,
6-4, I think in the third set I was a little overwhelmed that I was two sets to love up,
didn't really know what to do. The fourth set, I picked it up. I was hitting the ball
really well from the back, being aggressive with my forehand. I couldn't beat him if I
wasn't taking the initiative. I mean, Wayne is a great player.

Q. Did you try to do anything different strategically in playing him today?

DAVID NAINKIN: I've played ten times back when we were young. We grew up from when we
were ten years old. That kind of helps because I know his game. I know his game. He knows
my game. I went out of the game plan, that's for sure. I had a set thing in my mind what I
was going to do, win or lose.

Q. The first time you ever played him you were ten, you'd say?

DAVID NAINKIN: Yeah, probably.

Q. What kind of success did you have with him when you were both younger?

DAVID NAINKIN: Probably head on head, even. That was years ago.

Q. The first time you ever met, what would that have been, just a juniors? 

DAVID NAINKIN: The first time?

Q. Yes.

DAVID NAINKIN: Yes, just Nationals, all sorts of little tournaments.

Q. Did you get a sense at all going through the qualifying that you could maybe pull
off an upset this year?

DAVID NAINKIN: Not at all. As I was saying, I came into this tournament on a big
downer. I lost a lot of club matches in Switzerland, playing there, lost three or four ATP
matches. Basically O for 9 coming in. I've been working hard consistently, been working
with Dennis
Van der Meer down in Hilton Head; Peter Colbert, physical trainer I've worked with,
helped me tremendously. This added to my morale and well-being.

Q. What was the key today?

DAVID NAINKIN: I really wanted to win. I had a will power that I didn't know I had. I
dug deep.

Q. In all those previous meetings with Wayne, he seemed pretty frustrated out there?

DAVID NAINKIN: The pressure was on him today, you know. He's the greatest tennis player
South Africa has ever had, probably. He plays me. He knows I can play. I've practiced with
him. Sure, the pressure was on him. I didn't want to come out there and be intimidated and
stream roll me. 

Q. Did you prey on that when he was frustrated?

DAVID NAINKIN: When I saw he was a little tight in some of his shots, I knew I was in
the driving seat most of the match. He missed a lot of shots that he probably doesn't
miss.

Q. Have you seen him in your past experience getting frustrated before, and did you
know the effect it could have?

DAVID NAINKIN: That's the way he plays. He always -- he gets frustrated. I don't think
it hampers his game. That's the way he is. He's a great player.

Q. Do you know how to work that a little bit?

DAVID NAINKIN: I didn't work on that at all. I didn't even know he was getting
frustrated. I didn't see what he was doing. He's going to get frustrated and he'll blow
you away 6-1, 6-1. I don't think that counts.

Q. Did you feel how important it was to close it out in that fourth set before you got
to a tiebreaker?

DAVID NAINKIN: Yeah. I think it was really important. I've actually never played five
sets. I got into the fourth and realized when I held my serve at 4-All in the fourth, it
was just four points. 30-All, came up with big serves, I thought 5-All. 6-5 I held again,
30-All. I think it helped, I was with the wind. It helped. 

Q. Figured if it got to a fifth --

DAVID NAINKIN: If it got to the fifth, I don't know. Physically I was still feeling all
right, you know.

Q. But you felt did you have the advantage?

DAVID NAINKIN: I couldn't say. Hard to say.

Q. David, you hit the ball just as well as Wayne did out there today. You're ranked
215, he's in the Top 10. What has held you back?

DAVID NAINKIN: A few things. That's what I tried to fix out there today.

Q. Mental?

DAVID NAINKIN: Yeah.

Q. Mental attitude?

DAVID NAINKIN: Yeah.

Q. What does this do for you mentally next round?

DAVID NAINKIN: I haven't even thought about it. I don't even know who it is, what's
going on. For three days I thought I was going to play Monday, then Tuesday, then
Wednesday. I was here three days waiting for the match.

Q. Will you sleep tonight?

DAVID NAINKIN: Probably.

Q. When you saw that you had him first, were you encouraged because you knew his game
so well?

DAVID NAINKIN: No. I wasn't encouraged, I wouldn't say that. I thought it was a tough
draw. I wasn't encouraged. He's been playing well all summer. I was just hoping. Then, you
know, I wasn't discouraged or encouraged. I felt it was unfortunate for two South Africans
to play each other. I had had a neutral feeling about it. I didn't really go out playing
Wayne and who he was, all that. I went out playing, trying to prove something to myself
today, no matter who was on the other side, whether it was Wayne. It happened to be Wayne.

Q. What did you say at the end of the match, "Sorry"?

DAVID NAINKIN: Nothing. I can't remember. I just couldn't believe it.

Q. Did he say anything?

DAVID NAINKIN: I can't remember. "Well done."

Q. You said you found new will power. Is it there that you can draw on it from now on?

DAVID NAINKIN: I've kind of had to go through a wall.

Q. Do it again?

DAVID NAINKIN: Sure. There's a bit of a barrier you have to break.

Q. Since you're playing so well here, will you be back in Switzerland next year?

DAVID NAINKIN: I don't know if they'll want me back there.

Q. Who were you playing for?

DAVID NAINKIN: For Grasshopper, Swiss National League on clay.

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT