MLB WORLD SERIES: ASTROS v WHITE SOX
October 22, 2005
Luis Aparicio
Ozzie Guillen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.   Just from being out there right now in the pregame, can you compare what the energy is like now as compared to the first two rounds of the playoff?
 
OZZIE GUILLEN:  Not really.  This is the ultimate thing, being in the World Series, and we're going to see a lot of media.  I think right now I see more people on the field because I see a lot of media.  There's a lot of people from Latin America, and they come here and cover this thing.  I think that's a great thing.  It's a lot of fun.  I'm not going to say I enjoy it.  It's great to be around and see a lot of people I ain't seen in a while and think I'm in this position. 
 
Q.  For those people who haven't seen tomorrow night's starter, Mark Buehrle that often, where do you think he ranks among the top pitchers in the game right now?
 
OZZIE GUILLEN:  I think Mark is one of the most underrated pitchers in the game right now.  A lot of people talk about a good left-handed pitcher, you have to talk with Mark Buehrle.  He has a great attitude.  I said early -- I think I said that last year, you've got 25 guys come to the ballpark every day, the way Mark Buehrle shows up, he's going to be fun to manage.  This kid, he's great on the field, but he's way better off the field.  Hopefully with this playoff and the World Series and I hope he pitches good, people will give him the recognition and what he needs.  I think this kid is great that he's here. 
 
Q.  All season long you, as a manager, you like to bunt.  But a lot of teams in baseball talk about they don't like to bunt these days.  Why is it you like to bunt, what do you think is good about it as a strategy?
 
OZZIE GUILLEN:  Well, the only thing -- the reason why I play 16 years in baseball, because I can bunt (laughter).  That's it.  I believe that because people grow up -- I grow up watching the game in the '70s and '80s, and the people that's winning game because pitching and stealing bases.  In '90 when we started making a lot of money, we forget how to play baseball, the game the right way.  I don't know, maybe it's the agents told the kids you don't get RBI's or home runs you're not going to make any money.  It's amazing how you see kids from the Minor League, they don't even know how to execute.  I believe that you're going to do that little thing, you're going to move the guy over, you always need one more run in the opposite team to win the game.  And bunting -- I guess you got better chance. 
 
Q.  You commented during the ALCS and the Divisional Series, nothing changes in your clubhouse, the guys are as loose as they are every day during the season, any difference today finally after six days off between the two series?
 
OZZIE GUILLEN:  No, today was -- I think today was the best day we have since we started the playoff.  I think because we are where we want to be.  And nothing, the only difference you see a lot of baseballs signed and bats.  But somebody called me for the talk show in the morning a couple of days ago, the they played my interview all day to make them laugh.  It was pretty fun.  It was amazing.  But they don't change.  They play cards, they go there -- the clubhouse, I don't like anybody to change.  
 
Q.  What's it going to mean to you to see Luis throw out the first pitch tonight?
 
OZZIE GUILLEN:  Wow, I hope it makes it to the plate, that's my first thing, I hope it don't bounce and hit me somewhere, I don't have a cup (laughter).  It's amazing, I think he's the best player ever to come from my country.  It's amazing.  He played for the White Sox for a long time, the biggest thing about this, I know in my country people are going to feel great about this.  And Luis was my first manager.  When I signed, it was like 20-something years ago, he was my first manager in baseball, in professional baseball.  And his uncle is the one that teached me to play baseball, Ernesto.  But his name around my house is pretty big.  Even though I'd like to see him more often, but he's one of the reasons why I played the game.  I played all my life because of him.  Having him here today, he was here for opening day my first year, and here for a real special day for me and my country. 
 
Q.  (In Spanish). 
 
OZZIE GUILLEN:  He asked me about how I feel.  I have a lot of good things in my life, I'm going to be the manager next year, and I was Rookie of the Year.  I'm the first Latin manager going to the World Series.  I think to me it's more important -- Latin people, they're always together.  But to me more important to get this win and this World Series to my country.  I know how tough -- how hard it is right now to put a little bit of smiling every morning on their face, that's my goal. 
 
Q.  How often do your sons second guess your managing decisions and how do you respond to them when they do?
 
OZZIE GUILLEN:  Well, every day.  You know why?  Because they know they don't have to make the decision.  And it's easy to second guess when you don't have to make the decision.  The second guess always come second.  But I hope -- I always told my son, I hope you'd be just half as smart as I am (laughter).  They are going to have a great life, because they think they know about baseball, so do a lot of people.  But learning from me and learning the right way and the tough way, I think it will make them easier for them to ask me about a lot of questions.  My son, they grow up in this game.  They grow up -- my oldest boy is 20, 21, whatever -- I know he's old enough to go to the bars (laughter) -- growing up with me every day in the summer and have them have the opportunity to see me managing in the World Series, I think it's a great feeling.  But they second guess me every day in the house because when you second guess people you don't know too much about baseball, it's easy to do it, they're the first one to do it.  I'll second guess myself before they do. 
 
Q.  (In Spanish.)
 
OZZIE GUILLEN:  The question is, is this going to open the door for a lot of Latin people to be managing the game.  I hope, I think the way this game is going right now, that many Latin players we've got playing in the Big League level, they offer me the job, open a lot of people's eyes and ears to give the opportunity so that people can come down.  I think you're going to see more Latin managers in the next ten years. 
 
Q.  You talked about this way back in Boston when (Bobby) Jenks was a factor.  Do you still have kind of a safety net for him in case you do have to use the bullpen and go to him, do you have a safety net like Dustin in case he does have some nerves that he can't get over?
 
OZZIE GUILLEN:  I'm not afraid to play this kid.  This kid has cold blood.  He's not going to get scared.  But in case something happens, I don't want to bring somebody out; it's a tough decision.  When we he gets on the mound, we'll have somebody back him up. 
 
Q.  Can you give us an idea of what sort of roles you might be using El Duque in in this series?
 
OZZIE GUILLEN:  Well, I don't know yet.  I think El Duque is -- when the top of the line or the best group of the lineup coming up, you might see him.  He's one guy I'm not afraid to use because he was in the position before.  He's got a lot of spirit, and he's a winner and he's going to be there.  I know El Duque wants the ball and wants to be on the mound.  
 
LUIS APARICIO:  Before the first question, I just want to say one thing about Ozzie.  All the people are crazy about it in Venezuela, and just yesterday I was reading the paper about the fans, they will be so happy.  And I'm very glad for the White Sox.  And I'm very happy and congratulate Ozzie because he is a hard worker, he knows his game.  
 
PHYLLIS MERHIGE:  Jerry is presenting Luis Aparicio award.  
 
JERRY REINSDORF:  Ozzie, this is an award which I think you're going to treasure.  It's named in honor of Luis Aparicio, it's presented to you by the people of your country for your accomplishments in managing the Chicago White Sox.  And I don't know what better award you could get than one named after Luis Aparicio (applause).  
 
OZZIE GUILLEN:  Well, to me it's an honor.  There's a lot of trophies been sitting in my house in the past, Gold Glove and Rookie of the Year, a lot of different things.  But to me -- having this for my country, and in Luis' name, and getting it when I'm still alive, a lot of people wait until you die to give you stuff, so to be alive and give this to me is an honor.  It's not easy to be in a country in any sport.  And having this in Luis' name in my honor is a tremendous, tremendous accomplishment.  I'm so happy about it.  Hopefully it won't be the last one, hopefully we'll come back and win another one.  I remember I was Rookie of the Year, it was a great honor to be in that same position in that same level that Luis Aparicio was.  Too bad I was not as good a player to be a Hall of Famer like he is.  But to know him is an honor.  Thank you.  
 
Q.  (In Spanish.)
 
LUIS APARICIO:  The answer is I was in 1959.  He wants to know what the difference was between the 1959 ballclub and this ballclub now.  He was asking me about the difference between the two teams.  The only difference is experience, especially they've got a pitcher that's tough.  But Ozzie has got a good ballclub.  They're hungry to win.  They've been playing hard and playing good baseball, and one thing about his coaching, I'm very happy about that, because he's got good coaching team because, the manager needs a good coaching team and he's got it. 
 
Q.  If you could just put into words what this means to you to see another World Series come back to Chicago after such a long time?
 
LUIS APARICIO:  Well, anybody that plays this game would love to be in the World Series.  And I'm very happy, like I said before, for the ballclub or for the White Sox fans, for the city, for Ozzie.  He's got Venezuela people crazy.  Everybody was asking if he had a chance, if he's going to win, and he's got the team.  He's got the team.  
 
Q.  (In Spanish.)
 
LUIS APARICIO:  I don't know, I don't have nothing to do with that.  Nobody ever mention anything to me.  I don't think that it's -- I hope they never mention the name, because I don't like to manage a ballclub, but I don't know when -- in some situations you need to bunt, I don't think I want to take that chair. 
 
Q.  (In Spanish.)
 
LUIS APARICIO:  He asked me about if he deserve more.  I think he does, because he's a new kid, and he's got a young ballclub.  He's got a ballclub all solid, they want to win, and he's just -- it's a good group of kids.  They're together all the time.  So that's very important in baseball.  I think the White Sox, the people, the fans in Chicago, they're going to have a memory for a long time. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT