U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 27, 1995
Simon Hobday
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
SIMON HOBDAY: I played terrible since September last year.  I don't know what has happened.  I think being U.S. Open champion you know, you try to be U.S. Open everyday and it affected my game.  But hopefully this week it will come around.  
 

Q.  Simon, has it been any one thing, I mean, you weren't playing well at the seniors in Palm Beach; you still haven't found whatever is missing? 
 
SIMON HOBDAY: Well, actually this time last year I wasn't playing well either.  And that particular week everything fell into place.  I had a practice round right now; I am delighted how I played.  Maybe same thing is going to happen again.  Hopefully it will happen again.   
 

Q.  Simon, how much fun was it at Shinnecock not to be bothered by autograph seekers, you came out of the locker room Nick Price and Greg Norman of course he got mobbed; you can go right to the range?
 
SIMON HOBDAY: That is right.  Someone said,  "Who who is that old guy playing with Nick Price?"  They didn't want my autograph; it was great.  That was relief. 
 

Q.  What did you think of Shinnecock?
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  I thought they set it up fantastic.  If you missed A fairway you just got so badly punished; same thing here.  So -- but I thought I really felt I thought I had to use every single club in the bag.  If you weren't putting well, you were going to die and if you weren't driving well, you were going to die and if you were not using irons well, you were going to die.  You had to hit everything good.  That is why even par won it.  Was it even par?  
 

Q.  Yes.  Good preparation for here?
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  Well, it is typical to say you have to have practice rounds for this tournament, that is true.  Very good practice for this.  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  It seems that whether it is the atmosphere or, you know, like a survival course, you have got to play more carefully or whatever it is, I don't know, I seem to -- my body seems to come right when it comes to the U.S. Open.  I have always played well at U.S. Open.  
 

Q.  A lot of players are coming--- not a lot, but two guys have come in so far and complained about the greens.  Any thoughts on what you found out there? 
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  Well, greens have never bothered me.  If they are bad, that is the same for everybody.  As long as there is a hole in them, it is fair.  That is what I figure.  You got -- the good putters will be crying about the greens;  the greens are not in great shape, I have to admit that.  But it's only going to affect the good putters.  
 

Q.  After seeing this course, is this the type of course where you feel you could possibly successfully defend your title? 
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  Yes, it is.  Called for a long straight driver and also you are going to have to hit a whole bunch of 5-iron, 4-irons into the greens which is my strength when I am playing well, so if I play good, it will -- it is the kind of course I play well on.   
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  Well, I did a lot of rounds in the pubs, actually, tell you the honest truth.  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  No, didn't have to buy any drinks.  I took a cup around to a few golf clubs in the pub, just to show the people and then, well, that is what we did anyway.  
 

Q.  Are you having as much fun now as you had before The Open?  Have you enjoyed The Open title the past year or has it been a tough responsibility?
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  I like to have played better this year to kind of-- to, you know, if you are U.S. champion I would like to have played better with the title in my pocket, so -- but what the hell, you can't play good all the time.  Maybe if we repeat I will be able to handle the pressure a bit better. 
 

Q.  At The Open you said at Shinnecock if you were beaten, you might have a drink or two --
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  Yeah, that is right.  No, it is difficult enough to repeat it on a normal tournament, but to repeat a U.S. Open is twice as difficult, I think, so I am not looking for any  miracles but I'd like one right now.  
 

Q.  Do you enjoy the reputation of being a happy go lucky guy and a little bit of a night hawk, so to speak? 
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  Well, I have to say that my reputation has definitely outgrown me.  I hear stories that have grown and grown and grown.  They all have some truth in them, but they have definitely grown over the years.  It is tough to keep up with the reputation.  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  No, I have still got the sponsor.  I just lost the hat just now in the locker room.  I think I signed it and gave it to some kid.  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  Thank you very much. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT