U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 3, 1994
Simon Hobday
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  No chance.  I didn't think 75 would have a  prayer of winning.  Absolutely no chance at all.  I  thought I would have to shoot about maybe 71, or  something like that, that would win by one or two.  The  worst part of playing bad like that, when you are three  or four over par, is that you let so many of those top  guys in.  Nicklaus -- you don't need Nicklaus and Floyd  and Trevino and all those other guys in as well.  If you  are just fighting a three horse battle, well, that is not  so tough.  But if you get them in as well, life becomes  very difficult.   
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  I had some, yes, but I was -- I don't know why   -- I was under terrible pressure.  My swing deserted me  today, and I knew that if I didn't putt good, I was going  to shoot well over par, so the more pressure I put on  myself, the worse I swung, and the worse I swung, the  worst I putted.  I was lucky to hit a few bad putts that  went in the hole.  I was very fortunate.   
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  Right now -- I was going to go out and  celebrate.  I don't think I got the guts anymore or the  energy.  But no, I feel fantastic.  It is one of the  goals that you aim at from way back and when it happens,  you know, it is a marvelous sensation; really, really  great feeling.   
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  Didn't make any birdies.   
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  All right.  Well, at the first hole I hooked  my driver in the bunker.  Hit an 8-iron over the back of  the green.  4-wooded the thing up about 4 foot away and  missed it.  And then next hole, I had thought, don't  hook this one.  I carved it in the trees right and then I  was fortunate enough to hit the 5-iron thin and right;  went near the trees and chipped that up about six feet  and missed that.  And then at the third, I got one on the  fairway finally with a 4-wood.  And then I choked on the  second shot, I steered it; then I pulled it left in the  bunker.  Hit a good bunker shot about 3, 4 feet short and  missed that.  Of course, panic at that stage had set in.  Next hole, I made birdie; hit driver and  4-iron and sand iron to about four feet and holed that -  which stopped the bleeding.  Then I went par -- when did I make my  next bloody mistake?  I went par all the way around,  didn't I, to 13?  And then of course I hit a horrendous  drive left and got dead lucky again; hit it on the path  there where I could get a bit of backspin on and I hit an  8-iron to about twelve foot behind the hole and rolled  that in the middle.  That is when I thought, well, okay,  you have really got a good chance of winning the  tournament.  And then the next hole, of course, I got a  body blow.  I hit a couple of yards in the rough right;  hit an 8-iron which flew the green and hit the back of  the green and went over the back; then I chipped it up  there, quite a good chip; chipped it 30 foot past the pin  and 3-putted that.  Now I said, well, you are going to  lose the tournament.  Next hole, I dropped another one;  hit a 6-iron; hit the edge of the green and it kicked  left into the grass and it would have been fatal for me  to leave that short as well, so I hit that 20 feet past  and left that short, and 2-putted that.  And then, fortunately, I made birdie at  16.  I don't know where I got the power to hit it on the  green from my second shot, but I hit a driver - not very  good one - but the 3-wood, I absolutely crushed it.  It  was 250 or 255 or something to the pin and I hit it pin  high.  And 2-putted that.  And then I thought, well, if I just make  two pars, I will win the tournament.  So I played safe  with the 4-iron; tried to hit it in the middle of the  green.  Of course, I pulled that into the bunker and then  I hit it out there about 12 foot and missed that.  And  then the last hole, I played safe.  I hit a driver on the  fairway and next one in the middle of the green and  2-putted.  Fortunately, Graham Marsh dropped a shot.  So  more of a case of them losing it than me winning it,  really.   
 

Q.  What was the feeling on the last putt?  You  almost didn't want to putt it?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  I didn't.  I would rather have had someone  else go and putt that one, I must say.  You know, I don't  know how long it was, but it was probably only 2 foot,  but it looked a mile to me.  I have missed a few of those  in my time.  Anyway, it went in the middle; best shot I  hit all day.   
 

Q.  After the two long days that you had  yesterday; getting up early; today again, how weary were  you coming down the back stretch?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  I'd like to use that as an excuse for playing  bad today, but I don't think that was really the truth.  I just choked.  There is no question of that.  I don't  know, maybe I was a little bit tired, I don't know.  It  couldn't have helped anyway.   
 

Q.  Did you feel you were out of control after the  birdie on 13?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  Well, the word control -- I thought I had a  chance then, like a cushion, but I didn't think I was in  control.  If I was playing well and I went three shots  ahead, I would have felt I was in control.  Only time I  felt I was in control was when the last putt went in the  hole.  I was never in control today.   
 

Q.  Do you know the shot that bounced on 14; hit a  cable and stopped or would have been in the woods; do you  know that when you came --  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  On 14?   
 

Q.  Yeah.  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  Yeah, over the back?  Did it?   
 

Q.  Yeah.  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  Well, another break there which I didn't even  see.  Someone was looking after me today.   
 

Q.  Simon, you came out this morning; birdied 15  and 16 and you are 15 under.  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  Yes.   
 

Q.  What were you thinking then?  What happened on  17?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  Well, what I was thinking was I have come out  today and the swing is still there and I played nicely  and you know, everything was going to be perfect for the  rest of the day.  But having gone back and taken an hour  sleep and coming back again -- actually, I hit the ball  pretty well on the practice tee.  I think the first drive  of the first tee panicked me a little bit and then the  second driver, because I carved it, way right, because I  overcorrected the hook.   
 

Q.  What happened at 17?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  I hit a cold shank.  I just shanked the thing  straight in the trees on the right there and I was  actually fortunate to make the 5.  I was still off the  green in 3.   
 

Q.  Have you had a tendency in the past to hook  the ball under pressure?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  Yes.  Yes.  But I thought I sorted that out  this week.  The old bitch is back.   
 

Q.  How many packs of cigarettes did you smoke  today?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  I don't know.  I will check when I look in the  bag.  I must have done two in today, at least.  I know I  had two going at one time.  I said to my caddy, can I  have a cigarette.  He said, you got one.  I said, well  then don't bother.   
 

Q.  Simon, your birdie putt on 12, did that hit a  spike mark or something?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  There was a spike mark there.  I don't know  whether I twisted or what.  The ball kind of left the  blade and then went straight left.  I think-- actually,  I'd like to have used that as an excuse because there was  actually a spike mark about two inches in front of me and  dead in line and I thought, well, to hell with that, I  will just putt over the top of that.  I think it did  actually affect it.  It wasn't a great putt anyway.   
 

Q.  In the morning, your swing was there.  You  took a nap.  You came back in the afternoon; the swing  was gone.  What does that say for a nap?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  Well, what do you mean, did my swing take a  nap?  My swing took a nap with me.  My swing went to  sleep as well.  I don't know what happened.  I just -- I  just couldn't play.  I couldn't hit it nicely at all.   
 

Q.  When you made that last putt you kind of got  rid of that putter like you didn't even want to have to  touch that thing; then you kissed the ground.  Can you  talk about that whole series there?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  Having missed a few of those in my time, I was  very pleased to see that one go in.  The putter was hot in the hands.  I had  to throw it away; had to drop it.   
 

Q.  Showing your emotions on the golf course like  this to the camera, does that help you get through the  rough time?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  I was just telling the truth.  I was choking  all right, no doubt about that.  I was definitely  choking.  But just to relieve a little tension.  I was  just, you know, there is -- like nobody knew I was  choking, you know - yeah.   
 

Q.  You said the other day you didn't want to  think about what this win coupled with Ernie Els' win  meant to you.  Now that you have won it, what does it  mean to you?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  Well, just like I said earlier on, once you  have made a goal to win a tournament as big as this, it  is just a marvelous thing to have  succeeded to have  reached it.  Just fantastic feeling, fantastic.   
 

Q.  What do you think that means to your homeland?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  I don't know whether they will believe me when  I phone them just now.  No, it will be great.  They will  enjoy it.  I have got a lot of people made -- they will  enjoy tonight for sure.   
 

Q.  You have been leading for two days; get to the  18th tee of the final hole and you are tied for the  lead.  What was going through your mind?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  Well, all I thought, said to myself is now  don't go steering the ball down the fairway; just give it  such a dirty, filthy hit; get it as far as down the hole  as possible even if it goes in the rough and give  yourself a chance that is what I was thinking.  And also,  I was waiting for the 18th round to finish, that is one  of the things I was wanting to happen.   
 

Q.  Simon, did the thoughts of a playoff ever  enter your mind?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  Oh, yes, on 18 I thought well, I was hoping to  get in a playoff at 18.  I was just hoping that it was  only going to be two of us, because-- oh, dear.   
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  Actually that was another thought that went  past me mind probably going into the playoff; probably  going to get us of at seven o'clock.  I said, oh, to  hell, not again.   
 

Q.  Prior to this one, what has been your grandest  achievement in golf as you see it?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  My first tournament won the South African Open  was the one that I remember the most, but on the Senior  Tour to have beaten the people of the caliber that play  on this Senior Tour last year, I won two tournaments--  the first one, the Kroger, which is -- I am defending  next week, was a highlight in this tour for sure.   
 

Q.  What will you be doing tonight to celebrate?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  I will just roll with -- go with the flow, I  think, see what happens.  It will be plenty flowing too,  I bet you.   
 

Q.  Simon, second shot on 18, yardage and club and  how far?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  I had 153 to the front and the pin was on 8.  So I had 160 -- 161, but the wind was blowing in and it  is uphill so I hit a 6-iron.  I didn't want to hit a 7.  I thought maybe if I miscued it was going to hit the  front of the green and roll-back down.  I didn't have the  nerve to up-and-down it from the front there.  I just  said, I am going to hit it in the middle of the green at  the back, so I hit a 6-iron.   
 

Q.  How far was the first putt?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  I don't know.  It would have been 40 feet.  Second one was eight feet; wasn't it?   
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  Only about two feet.   
 

Q.  I was talking to your sister off the 18th  green she said she wished her father was here to see  this.  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  Yes, well my father died a few years ago and  he would really-- he started me off playing golf and was  with me right throughout my career in Europe, and he  would have really have loved this, a major tournament, he  would really have loved that.   
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  Thank you, fellows.  You have been great the  whole week.  Thank you.  (APPLAUSE)    
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT