U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 2, 1994
Simon Hobday
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  It is a long story.  It is a long story.  I  got up at 5 o'clock in the morning, I wasn't well.  But I  managed to scramble a par.  I tried to get back to the  house after the one hole that I played and go to sleep  and I couldn't go to sleep.  Then I came out on the  course and I warmed up for the second time.  Then, I went  back and they told me to go back to the locker room  because it was going to rain.  After an hour or so I went  out and warmed up again.  Then as I got to the tee, they  said go back to the locker room; it is going to rain  again.  So, I went out and warmed up again.  I haven't  hit that many practice balls when I am working.  But it  didn't affect the game today, thank God.  We played  nicely.   
 

Q.  What time did you go to sleep last night?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  I slept all right last night, but it was only  for four hours or five hours, or something.  That isn't  enough for me; I don't think.   
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  I birdied the par 5.  I holed-- I hit a drive  and a 3-iron and a sand wedge to about 15 feet and holed  that.  Then I made two at -- what is that -- 6.  I hit a 3-iron to about 5 feet and holed that.  And then at 6, I hit it to about -- 7 I  hit it to about 2 foot.   
 

Q.  What did you hit in there?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  6-iron.  Driver and a 6-iron.   
 

Q.  How far were you?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  166 paces to the pin.  And then on the 13th I hit it to about  four feet and holed that.   
 

Q.  Simon, 13 under par, you played 13 holes  today.  I understand that you don't necessarily like the  number 13?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  No, a lot of things have happened to me on,  mostly, Friday the 13th.  I have had four car accidents  on Friday the 13th.  I was deported from a country on  Friday the 13th.  I got my deportation papers -- actually I  was out of the country when they signed them and they  were on Friday the 13th, as well.  So, Friday the 13th   --.   
 

Q.  Which country?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  Zambia.  Friday the 13th, I stay indoors most  of the time.   
 

Q.  Can we ask why that was-- why were you  deported?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  They wouldn't tell me.  They just told me you  got 48 hours to get the hell out of here.  But it didn't  matter, I have been thrown out of better places than  that.   
 

Q.  Can you name a few?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  No, I was just joking.   
 

Q.  Were you surprised that nobody else is really  making a run from the glamour group in front of you?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  Jim Albus isn't going away, is he?  He is  sticking like glue.  God, I wish -- I hope he is late for  his bloody starting time tomorrow.   
 

Q.  Do you get any satisfaction, your group,  outplaying the guys in front of you?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  No, I was just trying not to take any notice  of what they were doing.  Just getting on with my own  game, really.  Hell, if you start work about Nicklaus and  Floyd and Weiskopf and all those other guys, hell, you  will have a nervous breakdown on the second.   
 

Q.  Have you ever had a longer day on a golf  course, where you arrived earlier?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  No, never.   
 

Q.  Anything come close?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  No.   
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  Yes, but at least that puts you off at 8:30 or  something -- or whatever -- you finish at 9 o'clock.  I  mean, I have not even done that yet.   
 

Q.  How tired are you really?  Are you mentally  sharp still or what is your state of mind?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  Well, I tell you what, I was very pleased to  hear that whistle go off on the 13th and so I can maybe  go and get some kiper and come out stronger tomorrow.   
 

Q.  Do you look any better at 5:45 in the morning?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  No. I am still not good at about eight.   
 

Q.  Simon, you know, you hit so many irons close.  Could you talk about your iron play and just what you  must be feeling when you stand over them this week,  because you are hitting it right at the flag?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  It was like I said couple of days ago, it is  that thing that it clicks in.  I can't describe it.  But,  I have been playing so bad and I have been looking all  over the swing to find the thing that will just hit it on  the green, never mind hit it close.  And last week, it  was there.  I found a way of finishing the backswing and  again going -- I have got an extra two seconds almost to  hit the ball, compared to what I had at about ten days  ago.  And it is so new that it is easy to concentrate on  it.  But, I am still not dead confident with every iron  that I stand over.  Unless the yardage is dead spot on.  If I got 138 to the pin and I got a 9 -- 9-iron, well  then it is-- I can't hit soft shots yet, or I can blast  them, but I can't hit the little soft shots over the  traps yet.  I am not confident enough to do that.   
 

Q.  Simon, how do you feel with the putter  compared to how you normally feel with the putter?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  Well, I feel I am putting better than I know  how.  But I am not -- I don't actually even want to talk  about it, because it might go away.   
 

Q.  What about the chip shot with the wood, metal  wood on Number 2?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  Well, on these greens, when you roll off the  side, and you actually got grain looking at you, it is a  terribly difficult thing to hit with a putter the grass  grabs it straight-a-way.  With the 4-wood it just gets  out of its lie and on top of the grass; it is-- I am  amazed other people aren't using that shot.  It is a hell  of a lot easy than handling it with a putter too, but  don't put that in the press tomorrow; they will all be  doing it.   
 

Q.  Do you feel like you are in a zone?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  Actually yes.  I wasn't the first round or end  of the -- since the back 9 of the first day, I have been  in a zone.  Yeah, I do.  Good question.   
 

Q.  What would winning the U.S. Open mean to you  being from South Africa?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  Hell, I don't even want to think about winning  the U.S. Open yet.  I haven't even thought about it and I  don't want to.  So I will answer that question if it  happens.   
 

Q.  I was wondering about your influence on --  Nick Price talked about you; you were sort of a mentor to  him.  I wonder what your relationship --  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  In the old days, ever hear of a chap called  Mark McNulty and Dennis Watson and Nick Price were all  youngsters when I was playing; they used to come and say  you know, Mr. Hobday, can we sit here in the back here  and watch you practice.  I'd say, fine, as long as you  keep quiet.  Nowadays, if I play in a tournament when  they are there they say, what are you doing here you old  fart.  You know, things change and I used to be his hero  and now he is my hero.   
 

Q.  What club is that?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  Place called Warren Hills (Phonetic) in  Zimbabwe.   
 

Q.  Did you consider coming to America any  earlier?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  Yes, I did, but I chickened out because I  didn't have a lot of money and it would have cost me all  my bucks to come here and try and get a card and I  figured if I did get the card; then I would have to make  the cuts and everyone is shooting 142 around these golf  courses; then I figured if I'd made the cut, then I would  have to start beating Weiskopf, And Watson and Player.   
 

Q.  How long were you there?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  About 33 or 34 I was thinking about coming  over here.   
 

Q.  Do you regret it?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  Now that I think about it, I should have done  it.  I should have come over; much better place to play.   
 

Q.  What were those years like from 35 'til now,  what have you done until you became a senior; what was  your life like?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  The same as I do here.  I played in Europe and   -- for 16 years, so it is the same as it is here, but it  is just that we play in the wind and the rain and you had  warm beer and cold pies.  They go different over there in  SCotland.  I was playing as a pro.  I was playing as a  pro, yeah.   
 

Q.  Who named you scruffy, by the way?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  It was way back when I was very poor in the  South AFrican circuit, one tournament my one shoe broke  and I had to borrow a shoe from one of my pals and it  happened to be brown and my other shoe was black and then  the PGA said, well, you can't go around scruffy like  that.  I said that is the only shoes I got.  So we played  the tournament like that, but the name scruffy stuck with  the one black shoe and one brown shoe.   
 

Q.  What was your best year earningswise?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  Well, in those days we actually really we  didn't play for a lot of money.  So to give you an  example, my best year I think I finished 9th there; one  year I made 21 or 22 thousand pounds or something which  in those days would have been $50,000 for the whole  year.   
 

Q.  Between travelling, that exhausted most of  that money?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  No, that was actually -- you survived on that  in those days.  But you could get snot flying drunk on 10  Bob (Phonetic).  Nowadays 10 Bob, you have two Miller  Lites and you are looking around for change.   
 

Q.  When did you go into the car alarm business?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  That is after I quit in Europe.  I quit  playing Europe.  I think it was 82 and then I hung it  back for a year just playing the South African circuit;  then this opportunity came up and we went into the car  alarm business.  It grew and grew and grew.  It became  quite big.  We were turning over something like 500,000  Rand a month, so we were going-- it was a good business.   
 

Q.  But before that you really didn't have any  other job besides--  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  I just had that job and played the South  African when it arrived I played that because I was going  for 50 at that stage of the game and I had to keep my  hand in somehow.   
 

Q.  How many did you win in Europe and in South  Africa, how many worldwide wins do you pride yourself  with?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  I think if I went through them, it is under  10, but I think it would be about 8 or 9 altogether.  I  think 8.   
 

Q.  And your biggest- before the one you are  proudest of before you turned senior?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  South Africa Open I won in 1971 and then I  also won a German Open, it was in 76, and then I won  Rhodesian Open in 76 and 77 two in a row.  Then there was  another Open.   
 

Q.  Have you had a chance to go fishing here?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  Yes, you don't read the press, do you?  Well,  I went fishing after the first round.   
 

Q.  Could you tell us a story about that?  It was  a big hit on the fairways today?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  I had to take a pee while we were fishing, so  I hung it over the side of the boat, and while I was  doing that, my mate at the back of the boat moved and I  tippled over the back of the boat into the water.  That  is all right; isn't it?  It happens.  It happens.   
 

Q.  You told that on TV today.  Did they say  anything after your appearance?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  No, they didn't.   
 

Q.  How deep was the water?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  The thing was -- the boat filled up with  water.  I was swimming next to it trying to push it to  the bank and after swimming for about half a minute, I  look at my pal next door; he was standing up in 3 foot of  water and I was swimming and it was over 3 foot of  water.  I tell you there were a lot of snakes in that  lake too.  When I came around, you start thinking,  there's buggers as thick as your arms in there.  You got  that boat on the bank bloody quick after that.   
 

Q.  Where was that?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  Lake just down -- the fellow that owns the  Magnolia Inn, Ned Dobby (Phonetic) got a place on the  lake and he took us out.  He said here is a boat and some  rods and go and fish.   
 

Q.  Mike Hill had his brother Dave to encourage  him to come out on this tour; kept saying you got to come  out; you can do it.  When you were approaching 50, did  anyone in Europe or AFrica or an American tour player say  Simon, you can do it here?  
 
SIMON HOBDAY:  Yes, a player and Harold Henning, when they  were back in South Africa five, six years ago they said,  listen, all you got to do is get your card and you will  be all right. That is the toughest part, is getting the  card after that you will be okay.  I came and tried to  get the card and got it.  Been here ever since.   
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT