U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 1, 1994
Simon Hobday
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Where were you?  

SIMON HOBDAY:  Tom Weiskopf had the honor, he was just about  to take his club back when they called play.  So we had  to walk in.  

SIMON HOBDAY:  As I said here yesterday, I went home and  prayed for rain and it did rain.  So the greens were  soft, soft dartboards again today, so that is why the  round was so good.  It really played easy out there.  


Q.  Seemed like, perhaps, with the delay, you  really got stroking with irons?  

SIMON HOBDAY:  I dropped one straight-a-way on the fifth hole  but after that, I hit my irons right down the flag just  about every hole and popped in a few putts.  


Q.  What did you do during the delay?  

SIMON HOBDAY:  I don't know.  I went to sleep a bit in the  locker room.  


Q.  Seriously?  

SIMON HOBDAY:  Yeah, I laid down in the locker room.  


Q.  You went to sleep?  

SIMON HOBDAY:  Yeah.  


Q.  How long did you sleep?  

SIMON HOBDAY:  Half an hour or so.  


Q.  Talk about how tough it will be now to have to  get up that early in the morning, come out and do that,  and then play again tomorrow afternoon.  

SIMON HOBDAY:  As I was saying, I am not a pretty sight at  five o'clock in the morning, nor at 7, and face that  tough hole.  I wish to hell we could have finished it  tonight, even in the dark.  But that is all right.  That  is the way the cookie crumbles.  We will just have to do  our best tomorrow.  


Q.  Does that put a cramp in your style for this  evening?  

SIMON HOBDAY:  Well, I didn't have any serious plans for this  evening anyway, but if I did have them, it would have put  a damper on them, yeah.  


Q.  Were you on 5 for the rain delay?  

SIMON HOBDAY:  I was on the fourth hole and we finished that,  I made a par there.  I dropped one in on the fifth.  


Q.  Simon, your mindset; was the key that you knew  you could hit it close and that you are hitting your  irons good now and left yourself easy putts or did you  make a couple of really good putts to get rolling?  

SIMON HOBDAY:  Well, no, it is just -- first few holes I made  solid pars, and my irons, I got more and more confident  every time I stood over an iron today.  Maybe yesterday I  just got into this kind of slot and I was feeling good  about it.  Today, it was getting better and better and  better.  When you are 50 years old, you don't know what  the hell is going to happen in the morning, that is why I  wanted to finish off today.  Hopefully, it will be as  good tomorrow morning.  


Q.  Did your good iron play setup all the birdies  you made?  

SIMON HOBDAY:  Yes.  


Q.  did you make some good long putts?  

SIMON HOBDAY:  No, iron played mostly.  Eventually one or two  putts went in.  Iron play set it up.  


Q.  When you are as hot as you were, do you get  like disappointed when you make a par because you had  some good putts that you didn't make?  

SIMON HOBDAY:  The way I have been playing for the last 10  weeks, every time I make a par I am quite delighted and  on this course, any time you make a par, it is good.  You  are never unhappy with par.  


Q.  Any thoughts about having Nicklaus and Floyd  on your heals?  

SIMON HOBDAY:  I am trying not to think of that.  I am just  not trying not to think of that at all.  I am going to  phone them up at five o'clock.  


Q.  Can you go over birdie putts on the back 9?  

SIMON HOBDAY:  Birdie putts, okay, I went--- 10, I hit 5  foot, 12 was 6 foot.  13 was probably 15 feet.  And 15 --  16 was probably 20 feet.  

SIMON HOBDAY:  15, yes, the short hole.  


Q.  Simon, how aware were you of your position  were you watching the leader board?  

SIMON HOBDAY:  Yes, I was-- I kind of looked at the leader  board every now and again.  I try not to look at that.  It is not a good thing for me to do, to look at leader  boards, actually.  


Q.  But you did anyway?  

SIMON HOBDAY:  Yeah, you can't help it.  Out of the corner of  your eye you look at it just to check what has gone by.  I didn't look at it all day long saying, what is  happening, what is happening.  I just looked and said,  okay, we are still in there.  


Q.  Before you won last year you used to panic  whenever your name got on the leader board?  

SIMON HOBDAY:  It was amazing.  As soon as my name got on the  leader board, I would double or triple bogey or do  something or drop 5 in a row just to get away from that  leader board.  I had leader boarditis, they call it; very  badly, actually.  Until the Kroger, finally we won, I  actually took the lead on the very last shot of the day,  so that leader board -- didn't have the time to choke.  


Q.  Are you comfortable in the lead; are you a  good front runner?  

SIMON HOBDAY:  Yes, I think if I am playing well I am good in  the front.  If I am playing badly, I am no good at all.  So, you know, if I am uncertain of what I am doing, in  other words, if I am uncertain of what I am doing; not  that I am playing bad, then I am not a good front runner,  but if I am certain of what I am doing, I am a good front  runner.  


Q.  Are you certain?  

SIMON HOBDAY:  That would depend just after the ten minutes  on the range whether I am going to be happy or not.  


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT