U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 1994
Simon Hobday
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SIMON HOBDAY:  I birdied the first, hit a driver and a wedge  to about 10 feet and holed that.  Par 5, I hit a driver and a 3-iron and a  sand wedge to four feet.  And holed that.  And then I drove it in the long grass at  7, had to hit a sand iron out of that.  Dropped the shot  there.  Number 12, I drove it in the long grass  and got a lie and hit that on to 20 feet and holed that.  And then I hit a drive, 8-iron at 13 to about 20 feet and  holed that.  And then I hit 5-iron at 15 to 20 feet  and holed that.  And then I 2-putted the driver and the  3-wood on the green on 16 and 2-putted.  

SIMON HOBDAY:  Well, he is in a different zip code as far as  age is concerned, but hopefully we have two winners.  That would be great.  


Q.  Have you ever played with him?  

SIMON HOBDAY:  Yeah, I have known Ernie since he was about  thirteen years old, and if any of you people saw him play  at thirteen years old, you know, he is going to be a  superstar then.  He has got a lot of talent.  

SIMON HOBDAY:  When he was young, he played -- he did play,  what we call, Rugby, in those days, and he is a good  tennis player too.  So he has been physically doing those  kind of sports since he was a child, so he is strong.  

SIMON HOBDAY:  Well, I am not 100%.  I have been playing bad  for say 10 to 12 weeks now, and so I am not really  confident yet.  But today, for the first time, I hit a  few really really good shots and that is a change.  It  has given me a lot of confidence.  


Q.  This seems like your record at the Senior  Open.  Can you talk about why you --  

SIMON HOBDAY:  I don't know why that should be.  Maybe you  just get up a little bit because it is an Open or  whatever.  I don't know.  I didn't realize I was 10th  last year.  I didn't know what I did before that.  


Q.  8th.  

SIMON HOBDAY:  I don't know why that is.  Hopefully it  sticks.  


Q.  Anything specific that has been wrong with  your game?  

SIMON HOBDAY:  I just haven't been able to hit the middle of  the club with the ball; been going left and right, both  wings, so I haven't -- I don't even know where to aim the  last 10 weeks.  I start hitting them left; I start aiming  right; then I start aiming it left and it goes -- it has  just slipped out -- my rhythm slipped out for some  reason, and it's just taking me a long time to get it  back.  


Q.  Simon, what was the mindset when you started  out knowing you haven't been playing well; did you say,  well, I am just going to go out there?  Were you loose?  Were you tight?  Were you tense?  What was the mindset?  

SIMON HOBDAY:  At the end of last week I hit the balls a  little bit better.  I was definitely playing better when  I arrived.  Once you start on the upswing again, you do  kind of look forward to playing and testing out whatever  you were trying out on the practice tee, and I think that  was it.  I was just looking forward to playing this week,  that is all.  


Q.  Fill me in on the history; why you first came  over here and played this tour?  

SIMON HOBDAY:  Why I came over here?  Because of the money  circuit.  That is why I came over here.  


Q.  You had an alarm business?  

SIMON HOBDAY:  Car alarm business before that and then -- I  was doing a lot of different odds and ends before I  turned 50.  


Q.  Comments on the course played at Pinehurst  Number 2.  

SIMON HOBDAY:  Obviously, it's a fantastic golf course.  The  condition was perfect today.  The greens were soft and,  you know, you never got a bad lie in the fairway.  It  really is set up absolutely perfect.  I hope it rains  every night to keep those greens soft and, like, they  played-- like it played today.  I can't imagine how tough  it would be if those greens got hard and they were  running off the edges.  They go down into those swells;  really tough to up-and-down from.  I hope it rains every  night.  


Q.  What was the occasion when you played with  Ernie; was that a tournament?  

SIMON HOBDAY:  Yes.  Watched him going as a junior when he  turned pro.  We played in the South African circuit;  played four, five tournaments in the last-- since we have  been over here, and we have played with him then - South  African tour.  


Q.  Do you figure Albus, Laoretti, and Wargo could  win a major, why not you?  

SIMON HOBDAY:  I figure if they could win one-- when it is  your turn, it is your turn.  If it happens to be a major,  all the better.  That is what happened to them.  You  know, when they won it, it was their turn to win it; just  happened to be a major.  Hopefully it is my turn to win  this week.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT