SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 13, 2010
Nikolay Davydenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. ZVEREV/N. Davydenko
  6-4, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions. 

 Q. It's always tough when you are the defending champion to lose in the first round. What went wrong today?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Not so much wrong. Just feel not so good, not like normally how I can concentrate every point. If you see, was like up and down. Like coming to the court 5-2 for me, then I was 7-6, just start to do more mistake, like losing concentration. 
 I think in my situation now, I know I see I can play very good. If looks like I do good points, can do winners, can do everything, just I think it's mentally now problem. If I can be more relax, don't think about so much result or anything, and just concentrate for the match and play good, just feel change completely game. 
 Because couple mistake, I start to be more nervous, to do more mistake. That's was now in this moment for me is like difficult. 

 Q. How many tournaments do you have to play now?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Every week. What else? Because I didn't play so much this year. That's was will continue play every week. Play Montpellier, also Bercy. I concentrate on this tournament. I don't want to retire before because I start to be crazy on the court or something like this. For sure I want to do good result. I want to do some, you know, good matches because I have new racquets and I want to really change and I want to really try, you know, find some good game. 
 And I see I can do. And for sure, you know, feel comfortable. That's was I need just maybe luck and more concentration for the next matches to win. 

 Q. Did you know much about your opponent today? Have you played before?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Well, I don't remember if I play against him. Maybe once. But if you see, like match was -- if baseline control, I know I can play better because most I did mistake. Don't make any winners because always I try to push and I try to do something. And I didn't realize that's it. He have good serve and just good touch, just baseline play, no mistake. But he have not so much power. That's was I don't think so is something like amazing was game today. 
 I don't know. Depends how what's be next tomorrow how he play. 

 Q. What do you think of the influence of the rain, revised schedule?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Already today doesn't matter which court we go, which court we change. Normally, be honest, we need to play in the same court, everything be the same, yeah. But today waiting all day, you know, tomorrow play two matches, finishing this match and to play one more match, nobody want. For us already, doesn't matter which court we go, we want to finish. Doesn't matter which result already be. 
 If I lose okay, fly tomorrow home. Or if I win, play tomorrow next round. This was, you know, choice. 

 Q. What's your feeling about this season? Is it a disappointment or something? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Not anymore because after injury I didn't so many good results. Beginning was, for sure, disappointing. Like, say, beginning this year I play good. I have good results. And then after injury, I have no results. 
 Now in the moment I have maybe four more tournament. What else? Just relax, try play my game, and for sure I know I can play very good. If I find luck and my mentally problem be realize, I can do better result. And, you know, then I try concentrate for the next season, for the next year, because I can play good, and for sure I want to come back. 

 Q. What do you think not making to London the end of this year?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: I don't think about London yet anymore. It's like you need to see the ranking race, who make it, some points this year. Because some already so many guys have so many points. Like defending champion, you know, London also for sure I will like to come back. But, okay, not this year. I already five times play Masters Cup. For sure I really enjoy be couple more times. 
 But I start to be older. Also not so easy, you know, think about so much how I need to play or what I do, which result can be. For sure I want to try next year like hundred percent important if I not be injury or something like problem this year happen, and I hope I can play, you know, good. For sure we will try for the next year for London. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT