BARCLAYS DUBAI TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS MEN
February 24, 2010
Nikolay Davydenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. BERRER/N. Davydenko
  6-3, Retired 
   
  Q. So is it the wrist you spoke about yesterday?   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Yes, the same. Yeah but yesterday after the match, I have like thinking okay I have pain. But maybe I recover and go less pain.   
 It was little bit less coming for warm up. I was -- I don't know -- I was thinking maybe I retire before the match. But I warm up I was feeling okay. My wrist holding. I have no more pain.   
 But in the match it's different. In the warm-up, you know, I need to return faster, like fast and play try to do something. Start to get swollen and have more pain. That was -- I was thinking about it. But too much for me, you know, get too risky now and better to retire.   
  
  Q. Very disappointing for you?  
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Yeah, it's disappointing for me because I didn't recovery fast enough. I was thinking I try always to fast as possible. Try doing a few days like, you know, do anything just you know to relief everything pain and I can play again.   
 That's what's disappointing. I don't know how long it's happening now I'm keeping. I don't know if I for sure go to Moscow for Davis Cup. But also I don't know for sure if it will be really good now for Davis Cup. We'll see.   
  
  Q. Your win last year in London, what has it done to you?   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: London? I already forget, you know what's happening in London. That was last year. Now it's 2010. New season, new life. Now you need to do new tournaments to win. It's no different.   
 It's really everything what was past, it's done. Now I need to do new results and play better and better.  
  
  Q. But you don't take anything forward?   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Well, trust me because it is just a good feeling, but what else? You know, we play every week tournaments.   
 It's not like Olympics like gold medalist, and then you rest for four years. Then we need to play again next week and next week. You're just happy for one day after final, and the next day you need to preparation for the next tournament.   
  
  Q. But that wasn't just an ordinary tournament that you won. Did you do something special or buy yourself something?  
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: You mean after the tournament?   
  
  Q. Yeah.   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Like no. It's the same. The next day straight to the airport and fly to another tournaments.   
 Also after London, I was going Monday already to Maldives. That's I have long, you know, flight. But celebration, I think I never did very well celebration after any tournaments. Just maybe in restaurant go dinner the same after the final.   
 But drink little bit alcohol, maybe not little bit, maybe little bit more, but it's not really a celebration (laughing).   
  
  Q. But do you think you have changed as a person?  
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Winning?   
  
  Q. As a person, do you think you have changed something that has changed in you?   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Like person change me?   
  
  Q. Yeah.   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: I don't know. Winning more tournaments, you know, just to enjoy maybe more tennis. It's a situation like you don't know for sure.   
 Depends like now. I enjoy coming to Dubai, but I'm disappointed about how I play and retired. It's like good things, bad things. You need to mix, you need to get something you enjoy.   
 Also, if you're losing match or you're retired, you still need to enjoy this week in Dubai and other tournaments. Maybe it's like for me it's important more enjoy every week of the tournament. That's when I start to play better tennis. And for sure enjoy practicing, not only matches.  
  
  Q. What is your main goal for this season? Probably the clay court?   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: I don't know. I play good on hard court, clay court indoors. For me goal I want to play very well on grass. I think that's what's most important. If I do good result of grass, I think I was feeling now I play everywhere good.   
  
  Q. But you think the grass is now much different than the other surfaces?   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: No, it's just movement, our movement. Because I'm moving fast, but not on grass. Little bit scared because of maybe of injuries, you know, it's just different movement.   
 Maybe I need to get more time practicing of grass. I don't know how many, but it's not good enough after Paris, Roland Garros, I have no time preparation for Wimbledon.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT