AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 27, 2010
Nikolay Davydenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. FEDERER/N. Davydenko
  2-6, 6-3, 6-0, 7-5 
   
  Q. You had your opportunities. It was a great game. Where did you miss out? Why didn't you take your chances?  
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Again, again, again, like the same what was happen last time in Grand Slam. Have chance and I didn't realize, and I lost.  
 Today, I don't know, it was complete different. I have good confidence in beginning and play well first set. Second set, I have so many chance to win, make breakpoints. I think it's just one game. I don't know what's happened there, like after 3-1 in the second set.   
 I can win this game, and for sure after this one, if I be 4-1, I have chance to win, like 99% chance win second set. But change something, 3-2, and I lost then everything. Just I cannot come back losing so many games. Like up 6-3, 6-0, and, you know, already 1-All, and really I don't know what's can happen.   
 Like say matches, okay, five-set matches. But it's was already was in the second set. I lost second and third set, and so easy. I cannot explain yet what's happen.   
  
  Q. You had three brilliant points to save the match in the 11th game of fourth set. There were two returns that were particularly breathtaking.   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Yes, I have chance again. If you see in fourth set 4-3 for me and I have Love-40 of serve Federer, but I have no chance. He have all five serves so good. But like say, bad luck for me again in the fourth set.   
 Yes, I again have chance by 5-All. I lost my serve fighting. But, again, bad luck. I don't know why. Maybe Federer was really lucky today. (Laughter.) Again.  
  
  Q. If it wasn't a Grand Slam would you have won it?   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: I really don't know. Maybe. But if you say I lost in three sets match. If it's not be a Grand Slam, I cannot really tell now for sure if I can win if it's not be Grand Slam. I don't think so it's not about Grand Slam.  
 For sure I can holding concentration longer. It's not only one and a half sets. For sure, like if you see I play fourth set also not bad. But Federer sometimes play very well. Sometimes I have really no chance he play fast, long.   
 If I saw here -- like in beginning he play shot and I have always chance make my game, and then he start to play longer, faster, and he pushing me back and I start to lose my power. Then everything.   
  
  Q. You feel you were a different player after the 3-1 in the second set?   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: For sure, yes.  
  
  Q. On the court did you feel the difference?  
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: You see different if you lose every game in the row, you know. Like do mistake before I didn't know mistake. Mostly every baseline games I won. And then I start to lose everything. Serve today was surprising. Today I have no first serve. That was really bad luck for me.   
 But I remember every time I play against him last two matches I won, I have good first serve. If in important points my first serve was good and I realize points and I won.  
 Today was everything from the second and like 50/50. Just baseline and, you know, losing already 6-Love third set, confidence really go down.  
  
  Q. Describe how Roger played in the second and third set.   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Not so big different. A little bit -- I tell like before. A little bit start to play longer. Maybe he begin have a little bit more confidence. Have to less mistake, and sometimes have good forehand fast. You know, make winners. Starting get better serve.   
 If you see, I have much more first serve and really I can't return.  
  
  Q. What was going through your mind as you were losing all those games?  
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Pissed off. (Laughter.) What else? Yeah. Like say I'm pissed off of my serve. Pissed off. I didn't realize this point, I didn't realize this point. It's like everything was shit (laughter.)  
 But what else? Bad luck. Go home tomorrow, relax.  
  
  Q. It's good you can laugh about it now. Many players would be pissed off after the match. You're laughing now.   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Yeah, with you guys, what I need to do?   
  
  Q. Roger said at times the sun had a bit of an affect on him and had a bit of a breeze as well. Did you have any affect from that?  
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Not much, but if you see like with sun, have maybe balls was faster. Then starting slow and slow. For me it was slow and for me I think have more confidence. A little bit was windy from one side. That's was control really all match was difficult.  
 If you change sides it's like you play with wind and against wind. I would say you need to be talent. You need for sure like Federer. You know, to be like perfect. To play everywhere good and like after, you know, losing first set and already in the second set losing, and then come back and winning 6-Love. He's No. 1.   
  
  Q. Do you still think you can win a Grand Slam?   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Australian Open not anymore, you know. (Smiling.) But tennis, my tennis is better. For sure it's better. I think so, yes.   
 I think I still have chance. I don't know this year. I have good chance Paris, US Open. Depends like how I apply, you know, in other tournaments and how my, you know, feeling in other Masters Series tournaments.   
 Like if you go to America, Indian Wells, Miami. Really if I beat against Federer in these tournaments, maybe have much more confidence.   
  
  Q. You had a good tournament. What's something positive you'll take away from Melbourne?  
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: I lost today. I don't know positive. Because I didn't play last year here, and positive I have points. Plus, these points, for me, it's important my ranking be good position, you know, top 10. That's was always what I play now. Winning matches and do good result.   
 I still in good position ranking. It's much more important for me.  
  
  Q. Was the extra media attention positive for you?  
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: I don't know. It's your choice.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT