DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS MEN
February 26, 2013
Nikolay Davydenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DAVYDENKO/J. Tipsarevic
  6‑0, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts on that match?  
NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:   Really not so many, because if you seen the first set was like nobody make winners.   Like I won six games just because, you know, he did like mostly ‑‑we fighting or I do mistake or he did mistake.   That's was I try find control, try to do no winners, just to push in the middle and waiting, what's happening.  
He didn't control all set.   That's was maybe I win 6‑Love, because if you see first two games was half an hour.   We played a long, long time, but rally was two, three balls and that's it.   We didn't do any so surprising game, like match was not unbelievable.  
But really in the second set he like go to toilet and come back and start to play better.   I don't know what he did there.   (Laughter.)  
Really.   I just surprising‑‑ he start to get no mistake, played three, four, five, six balls and have control already.   I just surprising, and that's was maybe he in the beginning he start to play better and I start to do mistake.  
Because I also waiting from him something, you know.   He start play better.   I start still playing the middle.   For him was start to be easy, easy.   He start to win games.  
Maybe after I a little bit start to change something.   Maybe, you know, he lose concentration.   That's was, you know, was 50/50 or second set.   I also, you know, waiting for him some mistake because it's really difficult to do some winners here.   
I don't know.   Like it's always we come from Europe, play three weeks indoor and different balls, and coming here so dry, you know, so fast.   I cannot control.   You know, doesn't matter, you know, we have not so many time for practicing here, just two days and tournament start from Monday.   
You know, if somebody win first round is really, you know, lucky, because then you have time to prepare for second match maybe feeling already better and you can already play better second match.  
   
 Q.   Have you ever played two opening games like that before, 30 minutes for two games?  
NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:   No.   Well, maybe you can play with Nadal, you know, two games.   But with Tipsarevic or somebody else who play ‑‑it's surprising, you know.   We play a long, you know, deuce and advantage, deuce, so many times.   I was really tired.   In two games I was thinking match just starting and I'm already tired.  
You know, really okay.   I enjoy, you know, to win here first round, because normally like last year I lost against qually and before I lost also first round.   It was for me not so easy.   Would like to come here and play like in Doha, but is not Doha.   That's was, you know, different feeling and want to do something, you know.   Try to play better.   If I can, it's good.  
   
 Q.   Still, you got a win over quite a highly ranked player and one of your aims was to get to the top 20.   
NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:   Yes, but if you see like Tipsarevic result of the last weeks, he lost against Tursunov also first match and before ‑‑ he didn't maybe now have confidence after Australian Open, yeah?   There he play very well, but now he don't feel after he injured there, and after injury he try come back.   Game is good but is not enough now.  
Maybe he will feel better in America.   But he play very well, for sure.   Like I know he's like top‑10 player.   He make good result, you know, in Grand Slam.  
That is much more important because they have more points, and if you play quarters, semis, you stay in top 10.  
   
 Q.   Do you know where your level is at the moment?  
NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:   My level?   Yeah, I am really too old thinking about my level.   Just really ‑‑I would like, you know, to get some level and to say, I'm now in top 20.   But I beat‑‑ you know, like some guys can be top 20, but I would like to beat top guys.   I lost last time against Tsonga and Federer I lost.   Also Gasquet I lost.   This guy is top 10.   
If I beat these guys, I say, Yeah, now I feeling like top 10.  
   
 Q.   You looked pretty close on the last...   
NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:   Yes, yes, yes, but a season is starting and already starting first tournaments on Masters, Indian Wells, Miami, and there is the biggest tournament.   There is you can try to find result.   
Like I want Miami, you know.   For me was so good time.   But who knows what will be in the future?   Because season is changing, you know.   We have clay court, grass, hard.   We'll see where it can feel good, you know.   
For sure I need like only two tournaments, you know, to win like Grand Slam and Masters and to be top 10.   You need just three weeks to be top 10, but you need to be best.   I mean, you need to beat everybody.  
But I don't know.   I hope it's coming.  
   
 Q.   You say you hope you can beat those big guys.   Do you still feel you're capable?   Like wanting to do one thing but being actually able to do it is another.   Do you have the self‑belief you're good enough to mix it with those guys?  
NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:   Sometimes I feel.   But if I play against those guys and losing, then I lose with confidence.  
Always try to find solution, always try to find my game and feeling, Wow, I can now do my best tennis.   One day I play good.   Next day I coming and I play like 300‑year‑old.   I just I don't know.   
It's like feeling if I can hold all week play very well on tournament, in big tournament, and it's will be great.   That's was who play two weeks, you know, on Grand Slam like showed the best tennis, that's the best guys, you know.   That's was is like top guys doing this one and play semis, quarters, mostly the same guys doing this one.  
   
 Q.   Do you credit yourself with beating a top‑10 player today or do you blame him for playing badly?  
NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:   You know, that's like, how I say, I was there.   Yeah, I be there.   I know how you feel.   
But too many stress to be top 10.   You know, you need to always to defending.   You have a little bit more pressure like always press to pushing you.   You're top 10, why you losing first round, second round?   (Smiling.)  
Me not anymore.   I have no pressure from you.   I just try to explain some bullshit.   (Laughter.)  
Q.You told us in Doha that you're happy with your form but you want to work on your fitness a little bit.   Do you feel more fit now than you were like eight weeks ago?   
NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:   Yes, yes, for sure I was feeling better.   You know, just try to hold, you know ‑‑but I don't understand.   Sometimes I feel good, and sometimes like I say after one hour I'm so tired and just start to thinking why maybe I'm so old.   Maybe not.   Maybe something I eat today not so good.   That's was complicated.   We are tennis players, a little bit crazy.   
I try to find in your mind something, you know, stupid things.   Like try to find why it's happening.   
   
 Q.   You have now beaten Tipsarevic, and in the next match you play Hanescu because Bernard retired.   So do you feel you have a chance to go far now in this tournament?  
NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:   You know, he and Dubai are not like it's everybody like feeling play the same game.   You know, I don't know like if you see yesterday Federer play three‑sets match.   That's was for sure he was not perfect, yeah?   
I don't know.   I beat him in Doha.   But there was slower and for me was easy.   
I don't know what's can happen here tomorrow, you know, and what time we play.   If it will be at 2:00, it will be fast and need the same control.   I don't know what's can happen.  
You know, here I cannot promise you nothing.   (Laughter.)  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT