AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2010
Nikolay Davydenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DAVYDENKO/I. Marchenko
  6-3, 6-3, 6-0

 THE MODERATOR: Questions.

 Q. Perfect start of the tournament. 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Yeah, two matches, three sets. That's good. Second match play better. Baseline was control and fighting first two sets. Something important I think for me. You know, play from baseline, running, you know, like fighting I think is good. 

 Q. Did your opponent look scared? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: I don't think so. You know, qualifying guys really don't scare because nothing to lose. You know, just go, play, do the best result. 
 That's what's should be I need to scare against these guys because I don't know these guys, how he's playing. That's was is now different. It's not like between guys top 10 who is scare. This is now top 10 and something 150 in the world. You know, it's now different position. 
 But really I'm feeling I can win against these guys, and not to get hundred percent fit form, you know, say like not to be in the best level. 

 Q. Something more personal. Looking at your bio, I see you changed nationality when you were 18. Before you were Ukrainian. Can you explain a little bit why that happened. 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: It was one country. It was not Ukraine or Russia before. That's was I didn't change. I didn't have before 16, like say. 
 Just move to Russia. Everything was there. It's like doesn't matter where you be. Then was Russia. I was 11, like 12, and after my 16 age, I have my passport, I have citizenship Russian. 
 I didn't change anything from Ukrain to Russia passport, no. 

 Q. Would you love to write a book? Because you're an interesting figure, a great character. 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Write a book? You mean a humor book? Tennis book? Action book? I don't know. 

 Q. Whatever. 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: No, no, no. Maybe. Really, I don't know. I still play tennis. I don't know what I can do after if I continue tennis really. It's interesting. 
 I would like to go in business, but I don't want to lose my money also in the business. That's different decision and difficult what I can do. 

 Q. Why are you always talking about money every time? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Because we are Russian (smiling.) Russian always talking about money. And you know all Russian can get only cash, not like you guys, only credit cards also. But not always getting money. 
 In tennis, for us, it's most important winning and titles to get, you know. Because we have not so long career. Like if we play 10 years, in 10 years if you win some tournaments, you can tell your kids what you did. 
 Because, you know, if my kids asking, Papa, why you not working? What you doing now? I need to explain what I did, how was my life was before. That's was different situation. Not like normal people, you know, working and get to some job, and then kids can say in school about what's parents doing. 
 That's what's in my position is different now. 

 Q. Are you a vodka drinker?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Yes.

 Q. Is that where you get your strength from?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: No, I don't drink really. I don't drink so much because, you see, I'm skinny. I mix only. Sometimes I drink clear vodka, sometimes mixed with Red Bull. Little bit get power in night club or disco. 
 Because if I drink only vodka I go sleep straight. That's what's something change.

 Q. If you retire and you explain to your children why you're not working anymore... 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: It's interesting. We're not talking about tennis. We're talking about my life. This is my first experience like this in the press (laughter.) 

 Q. If you explain that you don't have a Grand Slam victory in a tournament, would you be happy?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: I think so, yes. I just explain what I did, you know. It's not only think about Grand Slam. I did my job. I did my, you know, tennis career. Some guys didn't win anything, you know. 
 But also you can explain something. He beat somebody, you know, in top 10, or winning some great matches. I can explain I have now 20 titles. That's what's was I can explain Davis Cup win. That's something I can and something I can explain my kids. I hope I can. I hope I can have kids also in the futures. We'll see. 

 Q. Would you want to have them so they can still see you play? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Yes. No. Yes and no. Really, I would like have kids now, like Federer already two have, or Hewitt. You know, we have the same age. But my wife don't want to, you know, stay at home. She travel with me now. 
 At least now is important time. Now I'm top 10. She scared about if I start to, with kids, lose tennis and go down, stray. That's was because I start to miss and I want to go home. I don't want to practicing. That's what's is different. 
 Maybe for me is better for me be with my wife at this time, no kids. If I be out of top 10, maybe for sure. You know, for sure. But yet is difficult decision to be top 10 and something change. 
 But I like it maybe. 

 Q. She thinks you can win the tournament, your wife?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: She think always I can win everything. But not everything I can win. 

 Q. And what do you think? You are the favorite or one of the favorites of the tournament. 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: I never think about any tournaments I am favorite. Doesn't matter which one, 250 or Grand Slam, because I know I can also lose not only top-10 guys, but I can lose also No. 15 or hundred. It's depends how you feel. 
 I know I'm very good player. If I feel good, I for sure I can beat everyone. But not every day you can feel good. That's was difficult. It was also like in Grand Slam. I hope I can feel every day good here in Australia. 
 For sure, feeling good you can win matches and you can win, you know, tournament. But, you know, it's only four days here. Just second round. Still, you know, continue, you know, in tournament. We'll see how is it feeling. 

 Q. Your victory against Federer in London has changed something for you? More confidence since this victory? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Yes, yes. Maybe in the match. It's not like -- like if you remember, I beat Nadal before, some 'nother guys. If I play against Federer, and I know so many matches like 4-All, I have set points and I losing sets. 
 It what's happening I think in Roland Garros in semifinal. I have in every set set points, and I lose three sets. This is really change my mind now. If you see like I was also in London in the third set was 5-All or something, 5-4 for Federer, and for sure he want to continue match. For sure he want to win now, you know, this match. 
 And he have chance, because it's was like Love-30 or 15-30, and then something in my mind -- I have good points. I did some well. I have good confidence at this time, and then I break him. 
 Something change these like few minutes, and winning, beat Federer. Already in second match in Doha I be more positive, more confidence. I know if be something by 5-All or 4-All or something, in much important points, I have chance win these points. That's was something change really. 

 Q. You said your wife says she thinks you can win every tournament you enter. 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: That's because she's my wife. 

 Q. After, does she analyze your tournament?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Yes, for sure. She analyze because she's travel with me already six years. Because in sitting with my brother, and brother always talking about what I did, right, left, everything, forehand. She can coaching me already. 
 She can explain what I did wrong in the match after the match. It's interesting, because I cannot see really what is a problem was in the match for sure, and she can explain. 

 Q. So she's a good coach?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Maybe in the future. Just tactic. 

 Q. How do you feel about a possible matchup with Verdasco in the quarters?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Everything in possible. I don't know what the score against Verdasco. I already played many times against him. Many times was fighting. Last time was in Kuala Lumpur final, 7-5, 7-5. Hard match. 
 I think for him here, I think he have good confidence. For him it's very well now, these balls, this surface, stadium. Just he feeling great. 
 We see if we can reach to Verdasco. Then we can talk about Verdasco. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT