BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 27, 2009
Nikolay Davydenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DAVYDENKO/R. Soderling
  7-6, 4-6, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. The beginning of the tournament you said you had breathing problems, didn't know quite what it was. In the second match you said you had some kind of injury. What was your status today?  
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Yes, my injury was after Djokovic because it was tough match. Was have problem against Nadal already in the second set. Then yesterday I didn't practice. Just make treatment, relax muscle.   
 Was not injury really. Was like really tight muscle. Really very tight. And I need to get relaxed maybe more in 24 hours. That's was two days was much better. And today was less pain, and I could run. I run pretty fast. And for sure I need to recovery now. For sure I need to be fit for tomorrow, running much more faster.   
  
  Q. Last year you got to the final in Shanghai against Djokovic. Djokovic is out. Do you think it's fair, the round robin system?   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: I really don't know. You know, if I was not in semifinal, maybe I say different (laughter). I say, Yes, I won two matches, I'm not qualified, it's bad luck.   
 But I don't know really these rules. I don't realize how these guys doing, you know, these rules. That's was, is not my mistake. Sorry.   
  
  Q. You played Roger many times. You've lost many times. Do you really believe that you can win?  
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: You know, it's like every 12 times I was coming and believe I can win, yeah (smiling)? It's not like I coming for the match and say already I'm losing.   
 Yes, if you remember last in Roland Garros, I have set point, set point, set point, and I lost three sets. That's was I didn't know. Maybe something different between me and Federer.   
 But I know Federer older, I'm also older. Maybe I start to play better and Federer not so good. We'll see. I play great matches all three now. I would like to play the same way like today, and I hope I can run tomorrow good, fast, and do no mistake.   
  
  Q. A question on your tactics. You talked about how you were trying to volley more. You did that successfully today. Is that something you would like to try against Roger, to go to the net more?  
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: If you see, I didn't play so much volley today because Soderling play long rally and pretty fast. I have really not so many chance come into the net.   
 I for sure tomorrow against Federer I have also not so many chance because he try always play forehand, try to do winners, and go by self, you know, play in the net, play volley.   
 Me always I think I play -- tomorrow I should play only baseline and running right-left, and maybe do some tactic change, I don't know. I don't know how Murray beat him, you know, many times, like only running right and left and do no mistake, and Federer losing in three sets. We'll see tomorrow.   
  
  Q. You are 18-5 in tiebreaks this year. Very consistent.   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Yeah, was surprising, yes. All tiebreaks what I play last few months I won. Maybe I have very good concentration really just in tiebreak, much more, like hundred percent I want to win and realize I won. It's just very impressive for me.   
  
  Q. What were your thoughts when he missed the easy forehand on match point?  
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Yes, I was thinking now deuce, I already need to think about my serve, where I need to serve first serve, and to do no mistake. And then we'll see. But that's was maybe, yeah, I was not believe he cannot hitting balls, you know, out because these balls should be in. I don't know why he do mistake. It's difficult to say.   
  
  Q. What do you think Djokovic thought when he missed that easy forehand?  
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Djokovic? He think about, I need to book tickets tomorrow and go to the holiday.   
  
  Q. Do you think he's glad about that or not?   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: I don't know. Ask him.   
  
  Q. You have to play your semifinal in 15 hours. Do you think you have enough time to recover physically?  
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: No, I have no time. But it's mistake from ATP because these guys doing, you know, time for when is the semifinal, what time need to play. If you see today I play night session and tomorrow at 2:00. All mistake to ATP. It's obviously there. It's not my mistake.   
 That's was I try. I hope I be fit for tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT