BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 25, 2009
Nikolay Davydenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DAVYDENKO/R. Nadal
  6-1, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. How happy are you right now with that victory?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Not so happy. It's like robin round. It's not like I won tournament. Just winning match, now 1-All. Still, you know, maybe chance, maybe not, to come, you know, to the semifinal. 
 But after first match, I show my good tennis in the second match. I was surprising. We'll see if I can show the same tennis in the third match. 

 Q. You started very well. What happened towards the end of the second set? You looked a bit tired. Was it the breathing problem or something else?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: No, you asking already why Djokovic losing so easy second set. You know, I was thinking he was tired after my match. And was also the same against Djokovic, was so tough match. 
 I have little bit injury, you know, my leg in the first match. Was already starting have pain in the second set today because we running every point. Was not so easy. 
 And, yeah, I am not like animal. But was good, you know, finishing in one tiebreak second set. 

 Q. What do you think about your first set? Perhaps Rafa was not so good at that moment or it was a good performance from you?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: No, my first set was good. I make good serve and play very fast. That's was Nadal have no chance because today surface was faster. Like I remember we play Monday was a little bit slow. I was surprising, was warming up today before match, and was low and faster, some surface. That's was maybe it was good for me. That's was I won first set easy. It's very difficult to run if you play fast, right, left. It's not so easy, you know, running and putting balls back or control balls. 
 I don't know what's can happen Friday, how fast be. 

 Q. One of the things you did very well in the match was coming to the net. Was that your tactic?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Like I explain, like after my first match against Djokovic. Yes, I want to do something. I want to prove my tennis. And for sure, for every match, future, I want to play volley, come to the net, to realize these points. I think it's a good idea, make good serve, play in the net, good volley, give me much more confidence. 
 And I hope for the futures, this give me really chance winning easy matches or easy points, what I didn't make before. You know, last year before, play against Nadal, other guys, only baseline. I see I can go to the net, but now I realize. Now I try. Maybe because now I'm 28 years old, I need to do something. 

 Q. You said you have a little injury. What is it and are you worried for the next match?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: I don't know yet. I just see tomorrow practicing how I feeling. It's my left leg. I don't know how I wake up and how I feel tomorrow. Just I know already for sure tomorrow what's can happen for Friday. 

 Q. I was looking at your last few years and realized that you ranked No. 5 or above in every one of the last four years. Do you feel you've had the respect for those finishes?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: From who? 

 Q. From everybody. Do you think you get the respect you deserve for somebody who has finished in the top five for four years in a row?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: No, I was disappointment because I'm losing three months. I didn't play Australia Open, Indian Wells, Miami, Dubai. You know, this is big tournaments. It's important tournament. If I do some points then, my ranking go higher. Maybe I can finish to being No. 5 or 6. 
 Now, end of the season, I'm already in top eight. You know, for sure I want to try in beginning in season in Australia Open coming maybe better because I have zero points. If I make good result, my ranking be better, higher. 

 Q. You're a helluva player, better than most people think. You don't have a racquet endorsement. Do you think people should respect you more as a player, as the great player you are, also sponsorship-wise?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: No, maybe I don't like this, this life. If somebody respect me and waiting from me winning, you know, tournaments. Like today Nadal, Nadal, Nadal. It's good. Can always say, Nadal. That's was I have no pressure and I can play my tennis. I show my best tennis and I winning. That's was if nobody waiting, maybe it's good for me and easy to win tournament. 

 Q. How come Prince does not sponsor you any more?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Because Prince no money. Crisis (smiling). I know Prince give everything to Sharapova and no money anymore. 
 We'll see for next season if I make with Prince or another company. But with Prince I still four years play very well. I don't know, maybe keep racquets, but no contract still. 

 Q. You were up a break twice in the second set, Nadal managed to fight back each time. The momentum was shifting towards Nadal. The crowd was getting behind him going into the tiebreaker. How did you manage to keep your mental focus in the tiebreaker on the important points? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Like I say, I have no pressure. Doesn't matter like people say something, Nadal or anyone. Just I didn't listen anyone. It's important tiebreak. Tiebreak for me, it's really important. I concentration hundred percent. I try to win. Mostly everything what I play in tiebreak last few months I win. That's was for me really different between games and tiebreak. 
 Again, I realize my tiebreak today and I won. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT