BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 23, 2009
Nikolay Davydenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/N. Davydenko
  3-6, 6-4, 7-5 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. After such a long and hard match, you lose. But this is still a round robin. How do you feel about this fact?   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: I know I show my good tennis today. It's really great, but I lost. Yeah, still I have some chance. We'll see next match I have against Nadal. I don't know what time be, 2:00 or night session. But maybe I have some confidence. Maybe disappointed a little bit. But we'll see what's can happen.   
  
  Q. You were in control of the match for quite a long time. What happened at 4-All in the second?   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Just, yeah, losing concentration. Start to have problem with my body, but just call doctor. That's was cannot forget still in my mind few more games. That's was I start to lose in the third set my serve, and was difficult come back.   
 You know, always need to every point fighting, try to win. It's not so easy.   
  
  Q. What was the problem? Why did you call for the doctor?  
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: How explain is already like three weeks, I start to play in indoor after Shanghai. I have problem with my breathing. I really already was see doctor in three different countries. It's really have some problem. You know, I cannot realize now what has happen and from where is coming.   
 Some doctors say maybe asthma, some say maybe allergy, some say bronchitis. I really don't know what's really now. That's was, in indoor, feeling now, I losing already. If you see all three matches what I lose last in three sets, that's was feeling is happen like this.   
  
  Q. Who do you think is the toughest player in your group? Is it Rafa, Soderling, or Djokovic?  
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: If you see like from last week, I think Djokovic is favorite because he won Paris Bercy. Soderling now beat Nadal. Is not really favorite. It's like we'll see for next match how I play against Nadal.   
 But now, yeah, I think Soderling is toughest guy in the group, because how he beat Nadal, he played very well.  
  
  Q. What's the game plan for Wednesday's match? What do you have to do in order to win that match?   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: I not think about yet. You know, just finish my first match. We'll see tomorrow with practicing. We'll see how I feel after this match, tomorrow. Really physically I feel okay, not so really tired. Lose my match from tired physically. Three hours I can run. Against Nadal, also running three hours. We'll see how I play, what I can do in the match.   
  
  Q. Even though you haven't had time to think about it, you've already seen him play since he came back from his injury. Have you seen anything different, any new weakness, something you can attack that he didn't have before the injury?  
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: You know, between clay court and indoor is different. Sometimes he is pretty fast for him. That's was he losing control. He cannot control from baseline always. That's was I think he from baseline is pretty fast. That's was for him is very difficult.   
  
  Q. Was it your idea to swap shirts or Novak Djokovic at the end of the match?  
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Like before I see him, I say, I need just T-shirt for my fan from him. He say, Okay, let's go change on the court. I say, Okay, we do change after the match.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT