QATAR EXXONMOBILE OPEN
January 5, 2013
Nikolay Davydenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. GASQUET/N. Davydenko
  3‑6, 7‑6, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   These two break points at 4‑2 in the second, is it the biggest moment of the match?  
NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:   Maybe, yes.   It's was maybe was the time where I can say I can win the match, yeah, if I will be breaking and do 5‑2.   
But, you know, it's the game.   I start, start to be tired a little bit in the beginning already second set, yeah.  
Was not so easy.   It's like mentally and physically everything, concentration, it's like in one point.   For sure I was thinking 4‑3 for me I can do 5‑3.   But this time is new balls started to be, and he played a little bit faster and have good control.  
I start to lose with control.   Just he did couple points fast and I do mistake from forehand.   And, yeah, it's like then match start, you know, for me already tougher.   Until tiebreak ‑‑I try also tiebreak.   For sure I was concentrate, but I know I already have no power for tiebreak.   I just feel like not really holding, you know, my level.   
I tried to concentrate, but I did some mistake and already was tough, you know.   Third set also again trying, trying, but I know my legs already not so good moving.  
He's like played very well.   I mean, physically he is better, you know, much better, like tennis is okay but physically he was strong for three‑set for him was good.  
   
 Q.   I'm sure you don't want to take any credit away from him, but were you also affected by an injury?   Was it a hip flexor?   
NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:   Yeah, my muscle was so tired, you know, so tired.   I just receive some small, you know, like muscle problem.  
I didn't know for sure if I will be continue the match.   And then physio did like relax completely full muscle, yeah, on the leg.   Then I start to walk, and I start to try to play match and I feel okay.   I can holding.   I don't feel really pain and I can play.  
But my legs already was so tired.   I cannot really move easy like in first set or like in second set.   Third set for me was like bad luck.  
   
 Q.   You did pretty well throughout the week.   What are your feelings?   Are you proud of your performance throughout this week?  
NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:   Yeah, I'm proud of my tennis, but I'm really disappoint of my physically, you know, tennis.   Because I see I can beat him with the tennis like real tennis, but he beat me physically.   
He run very well.   I try always make some winners, but he just pushing fall‑backs, slice, spin, try to do something now to holding, you know, always try to make long rally.   
That's was I just feel slowly and slowly I start to be tired and start to make mistake.   Because I don't see ‑‑he have good serve.   I think it's the best from anyone who I play, fastest, like first and second, but baseline is really not so much special because always I pushing him.   
But after I start to do mistake.   That's was it's like my problem.   I need really to get, to be more, to find, you know, like solution, to be more stronger and to be prepared for Australia physically more because tennis I think is okay.  
   
 Q.   Do you have any feeling of how capable you may be to recover more physical strength in the coming weeks?  
NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:   No, it's like ‑‑no, no, I have one week yet time.   For sure I will now do less tennis, more running, and try to prepare for Australia how is possibly physically.   
For sure we play five‑set matches there.   I can always to find tennis on the match.   Yeah, I don't need like practicing like twice a day or like four hours a day.   I need now start to run a little bit more.   That's was then I can hold, you know, like today two‑and‑a‑half‑hour match and maybe better, not like now.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT