PILOT PEN TENNIS PRESENTED BY SCHICK
August 27, 2009
Nikolay Davydenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. QUERREY/N. Davydenko
  6-3, 3-6, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. In the ninth game you had two breakpoints and it looked like the match turned at that point. Can you talk about those last two games.   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Yeah, I have breakpoints, yeah, 15-40. I have no chance because he have first serve. All four serve was aces. I returning, and he just made good point to save their chance.   
 And then, okay, my double-fault already one point left. He try, you know, make baseline rally, and he did play well every point. Was good. For him was lucky to win like my game.   
  
  Q. What adjustments did you make against his serve after the first set? You returned much better after the first set.   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Yes, was surprising. I didn't find my game in the beginning, like first set. Because if you see like only 25 minutes was first set, and we didn't play so much rally. Was only mistake from me. I can't do anything.   
 Yeah, I was pissed off. Like I was already in my third round here, three matches played, and I cannot find my game. That's what's I know what I need to do, what I need to practicing already.   
 And then I was a little bit injury with the wrist, and I don't know if I decide retired or still keeping playing. That's was physio decide for me. Was good. I ask if can get my wrist worst or not. I don't know what I need to do. And say play few games more. I play. He said same pain, not be worse, you can keep it playing, finish, if your feeling is still the same. That was confidence for my injury was okay, I can play match, finish my match, continue.   
 And was starting play better. I find my game from baseline. Play rally better and better. I don't want to finish. I don't want to retired because I start to find my game. And also for me it's very important. That's was today I no disappointed. I very happy. In the second and third set, find my game, you know, baseline already play some rally, play better. That's was I think is good for the next week for me.  
  
  Q. Is the wrist injury from today?  
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: It's was today. It was couple returns from forehand because with serve you have 130 miles in the forehand. Sometimes balls is heavy. Didn't really control from forehand. You knee, vibration, keeping some painful. I was thinking, you know, coming now the US Open, and now I don't know how is my wrist can be. It's okay still. All three sets was not worse. Was the same pain. But I go again to physio and check again. I think in two days be okay for me. I hope so.   
  
  Q. Outside of his serve, what impresses you about his game, how much he's improved as a player?  
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Maybe baseline better because forehand sometimes he makes some winners. Backhand just play back, make topspin. Running better. Before I remember he didn't run so good. Now try play baseline control. And, yeah, I would say still good serves. Play like, I don't know, all American style.  
  
  Q. Have you had a chance to see the US Open draw?  
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: I don't know. I didn't see yet.   
  
  Q. You have a qualifier.   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: I have against qualifier? It's good.   
  
  Q. If you play Querrey in the third round, do you feel what you did today when you played good was okay?  
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: By third round, by US Open, I think I can play good - if I reach third round (smiling).   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT