TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 15, 2008
Nikolay Davydenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DAVYDENKO/A. Murray
  7-5, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Except you and other three players into this game are all their first time qualified for the semifinals. What are your comments on the young players?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Yeah, like I tell yesterday, it's the new generation of 21 years old guys. You know, I see Simon play very good today against Djokovic. Like I think it's the last tournament. Doesn't matter who coming here, try to show the best tennis. Was today and yesterday and all week was everybody try to show what he can. Just hundred percent the best. 
 I think for all people here, surprising, was good tennis for all week. 

 Q. Talk about what you showed this week and how excited you are to be in the final. 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Yeah, normally I should be fly tomorrow to Maldives. That's was I change my flight. Really I think was lucky Murray beat yesterday Federer. That's was how I tell yesterday also. For me was much better play against Murray, not against Federer. 
 Is different games. Murray played a bit more slower. Federer play faster. I think I have more chance, you know. That's what I did. Play very good today and won. 

 Q. Djokovic just said he met you in the final because he will have more confidence because he has beaten you in the round robin. How do you comment on that?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Really, yeah, Djokovic have more confidence in the final. But I didn't see really good match today for Djokovic. He sometime show, but not constant, not like every game, every point. 
 That's was maybe I have chance tomorrow because we play, you know, the same game. Okay, I lose 7-5 in the third in the first match against him, but is a different situation. Is a final. You know, who be tomorrow more physically fit and who be not so nervous. I think, yeah, then he can win tournament.

 Q. Andy was clearly tired after his match with Federer yesterday. If you had been in his situation, 2-0 going into a match with Federer, would you have considered saving some in reserve for the semifinal? Would you ever have considered that? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: I really don't know because it's difficult to say. Was very interesting match yesterday, yeah. And Murray want to show everyone here he is the best player because he beat Federer. He want to beat Federer. And maybe, maybe he is really tired for today. 
 But, yeah, recovery for 24 hours after three hours' match is very difficult. If he losing tiebreak in the second set he have more chance to recovery today, really play much better against Djokovic (smiling). 

 Q. In your only matchup with Novak this year in Davis Cup he retired with injury. Also in today's semifinal he called for a medical time-out, but still won. For tomorrow's final, are you going to take Novak's possible medical time-out as part of the preparation?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Maybe we make medical time both for tomorrow. But is good. We have not five-set match. You know, we have three-sets match. It's like today and yesterday, the same game. I don't think so is be very difficult or very tough. 
 Yeah, depends how we feeling tomorrow. We play very tough matches today. We'll see. We have 4:00 match. I think we have enough time to recovery and play final. 

 Q. Can you talk about Andy's body language and if seeing the way he looked on the court helped you at all mentally. Also, we have two situations: no press, not so positive press. Now that you have a chance, what do you want people to know about you?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: I see always Murray show face like he's so tired never before, but he running to every ball, try to fighting and try to win match. I don't know why he doing like this. Maybe this is like different motivation. Maybe it's psychology different because, you know, he try after the points very relaxing. That's was every point he relaxing, take towels, and again try to fight and try to win points. 
 I think it's good for him. But face, okay, look not so nice for all the match. Looks like you are tired and you want to die, you know, in the court. 
 But about me, you know, it's need to private to get press, because always now in few seconds I cannot say who I am. You know, it's difficult. But, you see, I can loving, I can nice tell something to the people maybe. I don't know. 
 But really I enjoy situation in the moment now by the press and everything. Like always if you come to the final or semifinal then you have more press, you have more questions, then you have more answer. 

 Q. Do you think Roger helps you in some sense in this semifinal? Do you think Simon will do the same thing? How do you recover in less than 22 hours for tomorrow's final?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: I think Federer, yeah, is help me to win match. Yesterday was very tough match, three hours. For sure it's - how I say - Murray was very tired. He can't be hundred percent fit. But he surprising me. He running to every ball and play the same game like what did before. 
 Okay, he did maybe more mistake, but also running all match one and a half hour. You need to get power, and he still have some power. 
 Yes, Simon doing today three sets against Djokovic, yeah, was also tough match for Djokovic. But tomorrow last day. You don't need to save power for the next day. It's last day, and you can play hundred percent how you can till you completely come tired. 

 Q. You said earlier in the week that you didn't feel the Miami tournament gave you any momentum because you weren't that happy with your year. I'm wondering if you're feeling a little better about the year. Could you also assess Roger and Rafa in terms of expectations for next year, 2009? Are they the players still to watch? What do they bring to the table, good and bad? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: About what? 

 Q. In general, Roger and Rafael, are they still the top two players, and what is there to watch about them?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Yes, it's like this year was starting Djokovic won Australian Open. Not Nadal, not Federer. And Tsonga be in the final. Yes, is different player was there. And, okay, yeah, then Roland Garros coming for Nadal. I don't know for how many years more. 
 But it's depends how you play before Grand Slam tournaments, like before Roland Garros. Like Nadal win Monte-Carlo, Hamburg, and for sure have more chance win Roland Garros. 
 And, yes, if you see Federer didn't win any tournaments, but he won US Open. It's already enough to be No. 2 in the world. 
 I hope for the next year it's be the same Federer, not to be different situation. I think it's still some guys who be now here top 10, and beginning next year is the same players for the Australia Open, and I think for Roland Garros. 

 Q. Are you feeling better about your year this year?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Not really. Okay, final is good for me here. Last tournament. You know, I can now take rest and go on my holiday. Be nice, you know. But by say Grand Slam, I didn't play so good, so is not good year. 

 Q. Several players looked very exhausted. You are one of the players that played more matches during the year and look very fit. What's your secret? And given your recent experience in Argentina, what's your opinion about what can happen at Davis Cup in Mar del Plata?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: You're from Argentina, yes? Okay (laughter). 
 My secret, to be positive, you know, every day. If you know is it some movie, the name, "The Secret," then you need to watch. Then you know what can be positive every day. 
 And what about Argentina? I look stronger, I eat good steak, and I buy nice leather jackets. 

 Q. Novak made us wait one hour after his match. You did your press conference 30 minutes after your victory. Why are you so rushed? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: I need to sit here, lay down, and talking about my life for one hour. Maybe Djokovic already, you know, all year is talking one hour with you guys because he is No. 3 in the world. 
 That's was, you know, is too late and I want to relax now for tomorrow. That's was I don't want to disturb you guys also (smiling). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT