TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 9, 2008
Nikolay Davydenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  N. DAVYDENKO/J. Tsonga
6-7, 6-4, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. What was your state of mind starting the last tiebreak? Did you feel nervous or very confident at that time? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: No, I was from beginning till last point feeling the same. Just I was not nervous. Just maybe a little bit nervous because after -- in the third set I losing my first serve and we start to play points and I did few mistake and he play well. 
 You know, I have match point, and I was thinking, If I lose today, I think was bad day for me. 
 But he play. He was lucky in that third set and unlucky in the tiebreak. 

 Q. After winning this match, what do you expect for the next one from Del Potro? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: I don't thinks I play against Del Potro. 

 Q. What do you think about your next match?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: I already lost against him in Buenos Aires by Davis Cup. Was different situation. He play at home. He play well. 
 Today I saw he was nervous in beginning, but then he start to play much better. Then against Djokovic, he have chance. Play like, I don't know, have chance win. But, I don't know, always changing in the game, different situation, losing match. 
 But I hope after my first match winning I have much better confidence and I can play better and better. That's was I hope I can win against Del Potro. 

 Q. When the crowd is favoring your opponent so much, does that make it difficult for you, or do you find that it motivates you to prove them wrong?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: For me sometimes I really enjoy playing not at home. Like, say, if I play Davis Cup like in Argentina or somewhere, or in America, if you play against some guys and crowd support another players, I really am -- I don't think about any pressure or something like. Just, you know, concentration for my match. 
 For me, crowd, okay, few guys support me, it's already enough (smiling). 

 Q. What do you think the key factor of changing the whole game was in this comeback victory?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Key was be constant for all match. Like, say, concentration from beginning till end, till last point. Don't be nervous. If you start to be nervous, because 2 hours, 40 minutes is long match. And nervous, like from beginning, first set, second, you can be tired. 
 That's was I think Tsonga in tiebreak was already completely different guy. 

 Q. You are more of a defensive player than Tsonga, but in today's match you made more winners than him. This is your strategy for this match, to play more aggressively than your opponent on the baseline? What did you do in this match to win?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: I do the same like always I do: I try play from baseline, make winners, yeah. And I was surprising I have good serve, first, second, till middle of third set. 
 You know, I hope in the second match and in the third still keeping my good serve, because if you have good serve you can make easy points, make winners. It's easy. You don't need to make rally 10 or 20 balls, you know, play so long, always running. It's difficult. You losing physically and also mentally. 
 That's was like, say, Roddick, you know, do so many good serve and still winning so many easy points. That's was is good for him, and that's was I try the same. 

 Q. Several months ago I remember you said you lost a little bit of motivation. Have you got your motivation back? Also you played four Masters Cups in Shanghai. How confident are you this is not your last Masters Cup?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Last week, you know, after my injury in St. Petersburg, coming to Paris, I was thinking, Don't think anything. Just, you know, try, you know, to no get pressure, because I was already in in Shanghai. 
 Like, say, never be nervous during the match. Doesn't matter what's happening, how I play, how I lose or win. You know, from beginning till last point, not to be nervous. Just relax and enjoy tennis. If I come to the court I try to enjoy tennis, and if I enjoy, I play well. 
 That's was from this year for me I try change my mind. I hope from next year I try to do the same and maybe can be play much better. 

 Q. In Paris in the final, Jo had 25 aces against Nalbandian. Today he had just a few aces. What was your secret on the return? Could you read his serve very easily? What was the key for you in the return?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: I think it's was different between here and Paris. In indoor was in Paris warmer and balls fly faster. Here more slowly. I think doesn't matter how you serve. 
 Like sometimes 220, you can return. I think this is was not so easy to serve here, not so many aces, and I think I am -- can do good return. 

 Q. I'd like to know your feeling about the Davis Cup final. 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: What opinion? I'm not there (smiling). I'm not playing. 

 Q. You have played in front of the Argentinian fans. Do you think it will be a key factor? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: I already tell Argentina have more chance win Davis Cup because play at home, fast surface. Nalbandian, I think, is favorite for Davis Cup because Del Potro play here. I don't think so he be so fit for Davis Cup, but you never know. He's junior (smiling). 

 Q. You served for the match at 5-3. You watched Tsonga come back with some pretty amazing shots. How do you put that game behind you and pull yourself back together to pull off the victory?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Like I tell already, it's like starting be 5-4, try to make the same. You know, try fighting, try have some points, and try win. 
 You know, was coming tiebreak. I was, you know, hope like by 5-All winning my serve, was good. Then think, Okay, maybe I try again. Maybe I can win this game and finish him by 7-5, but didn't. 
 Tiebreak, you know, lucky tiebreak. You never know what can happen. That's was lucky for me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT