QATAR EXXONMOBILE OPEN
January 3, 2013
Nikolay Davydenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DAVYDENKO/S. Bolellil
  6‑1, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Well done.   You are playing like you're on fire at the moment.   Is it just a question of not getting too hot too quickly?
NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:   I mean, for me what's important how long I can hold 100% my concentration today.   That's was I start ‑‑I don't think I start so perfectly.   It's like first couple games was a little bit coordination, you know, because was not so fast.
But then I start, after two games, start to move better.   Because like I feel like I can control every point, and for sure I will try to win every point.
That's was maybe was pretty fast, you know, first set.   I feel after like 1‑0 when I was broke in the second set, I lost a bit concentration.
That's was a little bit difficult on my serve.   I won my serve, but I see already something change.
Like, say, 20‑‑ no, 30 minutes, like I have good concentration like this level I can hold.   Normally I need hold like full match, but it's like still now not perfectly, yeah.   I hope I can, you know, hold in longer.

Q.   What are the things which enable you to hold it longer?   Is it practice or physical fitness?
NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:   I mean, everything.   I mean, matches, for sure, how I play.   Like today if it looks like I have very good warmup, like, say, oh, preparation before the match, concentration like try, you know, already to be already from first game to be like 100%, you know, fit. 
But physically, yeah, it's a little bit, for me it's important because it's like sometimes if you run longer, then your breathing, start to be tired.   Concentration is really go down.
But normally today we play very fast, and I have not so many points where I can do long rally.   And like hit fast and control and just give him ‑‑most he did always mistake because I control everything.
But tomorrow will be different.   It's not like he's not Bolelli.   It's like guy who will run and try to do no mistake.   And also like play long line, cross, everything.   That's was for me will be interesting match how I can hold or how I can play against like top 10 now player.

Q.   It also looked as if you were getting to the ball very early so you were hitting the ball early.   Is that right?
NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:   Yeah, because like depends how guys play or if he plays shortly or longer.   That's was some guys play very shortly.   I can stay on the baseline line and play always pushing my balls and always have control.
Some guys play very long and make very high top spins.   Then I need to go a little bit back.   That's was sometimes you have some trouble, you know, because it's like you're losing already this control.   Just for one meter from baseline is already start a little bit slow.
That's was I try always to be on court and always try to playing on baseline.

Q.   Is it too soon to get too excited, or do you feel like your best game is coming back?
NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:   Like today, yeah, it's my best game if I really have good concentration.   If you see like I can control every points and if I move very well, because it's like important how is my legs doing and like how I move to the ball. 
Yes, it's like, I mean, if I can reach this level, yeah, and like holding this level for sure I can play very well.   Then I can say, yes, now is my best game.   But it's just, you know, small time. 
You know, like today was like this time, like 50 minutes, yeah, but I tell 100% was 30 minutes.   Then already different was game.
But, you know, practicing play matches, fighting, winning matches, for sure give you confidence and practicing for everything, you know, for fitness and also concentration, everything. 
I hope I can, you know, continue this level, and I can next tournament, next tournament, you know, be better, but what I will like to be, you know, this year. 

Q.   As you said, tomorrow's match is not going to be as easy as today's.   Do you see yourself as the title contender?
NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:   I played against Ferrer already many times.   Sometimes I beat him easy; sometimes I beat him three sets.   Last time we play very tough matches.   He beat me, you know, I remember I think in Valencia and indoor two sets.
It was‑‑ yeah.   But he's now in different level.   You know, he's like already a top‑10 player.   He have more confidence.   He's No. 1 seed.   He will try to be, you know, like different position.
Me, like now, I'm not top 10 anymore.   I'm like 50.   Like say he likes stay a little bit up on me.
Before was always confidence, I was always better.   Now is different situation.   But my game, it's like feeling if I can improve this one, I feel I can push him also, like depends how I will be tomorrow.
I cannot explain it.   Maybe if I play against him today with the same level I can beat him, but tomorrow will be different day, and we'll see how I feel and how Ferrer will play, also. 

Q.   I know you talked a little bit about this, about, you know, last season.   I have seen you in Dubai and Doha the past few years, and you seem a lot different in terms of the way you're moving on the court.   You talked about injuries.   Are you 100% fit now?
NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:   I mean, you know, we are player never 100% fit with the body, never.   We have every something we have painful, you know.   That's was we have physio, that's was we try to recovery, that's was we try to be fit 100%.
But it's never happen.   Like we have recovery in November, we start approximately December, we start to be already injured in December because we have preparation, we practicing a lot.   Then start already pain in December. 
That's was it's never happen like we say, I have no pain.   If I die, yes, I have no pain.   (Laughter.)
But we are player.   We have always pain.   We survive this pain, and we play and like winning tournament, winning matches, enjoy, but we cannot enjoy forever.   We play to what time we can, and then we stop.

Q.   But in terms of injuries that you talked about, was there a ‑‑like last two years, I guess you have had certain types of injuries.   Was it knees, arms?   What was the injuries that affected your play?
NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:   Well, when I start to play ‑‑when I win London, and I win here Doha, and play very well at Australian Open.   Then come to Rotterdam and play semifinal against I remember Soderling, and I fell down and broke my wrist. 
I was try‑‑ I don't think about I was broken.   Come to Dubai and try to play there and still pain in my wrist.   Then I come to Indian Wells, to America, and check what's happening already.   I have like three, four weeks pain.
Then doctors tell me, You broke it.   That's was is happening, and I was out two months, two, three months, I cannot do anything.   That's was after this one I go down.   Was tough to come back.

Q.   In terms of coming back, I mean, is this the same game that we would have seen in Doha in 2010 or even when you were ‑‑I mean, or is there something you did in the offseason to change your game?   What would you say the big difference from last year to now is?
NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:   Yes, for sure I will try to change everything.   I will try to change my ‑‑no, I play with Prince racquets.   I change Prince on Prince racquets.   Yes, I change some string.   Yes, I change maybe practice. 
Maybe okay, what is felt now on me is really physically, because I practicing in indoor, and I have some really problem with my foot.   I didn't run so much.
But I practicing a lot tennis.   I feel my tennis is really well.   But if I start really long rally and running, physically I'm not 100% fit.   That's was I need to practicing a lot now running, running, because my brother tell me, You need to run now every day to be fit for Australian Open, because there is different weather and you cannot‑‑ you know, I think if your tennis 100% good, you cannot hold five‑set matches.   Maybe you win first set or second, but then you will be lost in five‑sets match. 
That's was is only one thinks I feel now is my legs is not 100% good, because now it's okay 50 minutes, yeah.   It was okay.   But I need run two hours, three hours.   If I can do like this, like today for three hours, yeah, I can say yes, I'm now fit 100% and I can try to beat everyone.

Q.   In terms of the game, is it the same game that you were playing last year, or are there different things you're doing?
NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:   It's already you need analyze if it was different or not different.   You will see how I play. 
It's like me, my feeling is always different, you know.   I wake up and I say, I will play shit today.   (Laughter.)
But, you know, for sure we always try to play the best tennis.   But always feeling is different, and I cannot explain.   Nobody can play every day the same level holding, I mean, the same.
It's like sometimes go up, sometimes going down.   But, you know, if you ask me if, like, I win tournament and then you ask me, and then I say, Yes, I won tournament, it's my best game. 
But now just semifinal.   I don't know what will happen tomorrow.   Yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT