U.S. OPEN
August 31, 2008
Nikolay Davydenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  N. DAVYDENKO/D. Tursunov  
6-2, 7-6, 6-3  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
  
  Q. You spoke in the press conference the other day about some of the struggles you were having late in the summer about maybe not playing well, but today you seemed to go out and have a very, very strong showing. Do you feel that you're sort of back in form right now? Are you happy with the way you're playing?  
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Um, no, just feeling because it's like last Grand Slam and I need to defend points and I need to really play how possible 100% good.   
 It's like saying not like I am feeling top fit, but I need to do everything to be top fit. That's was I need to fighting for every point and feeling how I can play, you know, for every point, every set, every, you know, match.   
 That's was for me very important, and I really happy winning three rounds in three sets.  
  
  Q. I know that it's hard to look ahead. Generally you like to think one match at a time, but you've been able to get to semifinals here the last two years. Right now, do you think you have the game and the fitness to take it to that next step and reach the final?  
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: You know, I will -- I feel like I was play in Miami I don't think about I can win Miami. I was also fighting every matches, first match, second, three sets.   
 And then it's like in the next round, the quarterfinal, semifinals, happening, I start to play much better. That's was I don't know what can be happening after tomorrow.   
 Just I hope, you know, I be fit, not to be sick, and like feeling good and prepare for the fourth round and try my best winning.  
  
  Q. You have played well here in the past. Is there something about this tournament that you think brings out your best tennis?  
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Um, you know, I never think in the future what's happening. Just for me it's important how I -- you know, now, concentration for the next match.  
 If I win, it's good for me. That's was just, you know, every match fighting, and then we'll see what the result be.   
  
  Q. When you play somebody like Dmitry who you played Davis Cup with before, do you have to do something different mentally knowing that this is a Davis Cup teammate? I don't know if you guys are friends or not, but is it a little bit different playing somebody like Dmitry than somebody you don't have that relationship with?  
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Really, I don't know what I can say about this. Just we are single player, you know. Okay, in Davis Cup is different. You know, we have practice together and play matches and fighting just for Russia.   
 Here, doesn't matter against who I play. I need to win match, and, you know, concentration is for me. And, okay, tough, maybe a little bit to play against Russian, but what I can do? I need to win.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT