U.S. OPEN
August 27, 2008
Nikolay Davydenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  N. DAVYDENKO/D. Sela
6-3, 6-3, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. How did you play? How do you feel you played today?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Very surprising. I was play good for first round, because always I be nervous and confidence is not so great just in beginning tournament. 
 But I play good all three sets, fighting good, and, like, very good concentration.

 Q. At the Olympics, you said you were tired and you seemed to have trouble with motivation. Do you still feel that way?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Um, yeah. I can say I'm tired all year, but I am player, and I just concentration and preparation for some tournament. Like now is the biggest tournament, and, you know, last tournament for this year, and I didn't make so great result in Grand Slam. 
 It was for me very important I will play very well here something, you know, feeling can come back for top 10 player and play very good. 
 It's just maybe I am tired, but not so.

 Q. Has the whole Argüello business, do you think that's behind you, or do you think that's always going to be over your head in any major tournament?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: What do you mean? 

 Q. Well, the whole controversy over what happened, about a year ago and the match with Argüello in Poland. Even though you're been cleared, is that a burden you're going to carry with you, rightly or wrongly?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Maybe it's like because of last year what's happening, because too many was pressure with me. And now it's like I was really tired mentally, everything. Maybe. I don't know really. 
 But, you know, I still play. I don't want to be quit, you know, tennis. I try and how possible play better and better. Maybe I find my game. Maybe I find my confidence mentally, and can play very well.

 Q. Do you think it was unfair that you got tarnished with that scandal that you were just in the wrong place at the wrong time?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: I think I was in wrong place, but, you know, I come back this year to Russia and I won. That's was I like this tournament, because tournament director always, you know, nice for me there. And what's happened in Sopot, it's same tournament in Russia. 
 But I go there and I played there and I won there. Very good for me, and maybe I go next year and I try to win again there.

 Q. What is the status of that investigation as far as you know? I mean, it's still ongoing? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Really, I didn't hear anything now. You might to ask ATP, not me, because -- or ask my manager. Really, I don't know what's happening now. I don't hear anything really long time. 
 For me I think is good, because I don't think about any different, you know, things. Just for the tennis.

 Q. And you believe it's still not finished?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: I believe it's finished this year for sure.

 Q. Do you believe it will be finished this year?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Yeah. 

 Q. There's been a lot of conversations in the press room in the last few days with players such as Andy Murray and James Blake, for instance, saying that there's a different feeling this year on the men's side, in that in the past few years Roger seemed unbeatable. Roger is the player that knocked you out in the last two years in the semis. Do you now look at things a little bit differently since maybe Roger isn't as dominant as he was in the past several years?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Yeah, but, you know, it's tough to say about Federer, because he was already so many years No. 1 and win every Grand Slam. Okay, Nadal winning Roland Garros, but he's always good player. 
 Okay, and this year was not so great for him maybe, you know, he's the same tired. Can't be forever to be No. 1, you know, and finish No. 1. 
 That's was I hope, you know, like now he's not so top fit, and, you know, can, you know, get same level like another players. 
 You never know what can be happening by US Open. But there's still Nadal, Djokovic, still winning tournament, Masters Series. That's was favorite here, also.

 Q. Would you say it's a reasonable assessment - I think it was James said it himself - he said I believe solidly, firmly, that there are six or seven players here who have a realistic shot at winning this tournament. Would you agree with that assessment, and would you put yourself in that group?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Hmm. You know, yeah, for this time I can say, yes, this can be like this. Top, like, six, eight guys can win US Open, because I didn't see some great result from Federer this year. 
 That's was maybe. And for me, you know, I don't want to speak about what I do in the future. Just I want to -- didn't play well, you know, after what I did Wimbledon, losing first round and I losing my mentally and losing everything. 
 I don't want to really play tennis, I don't want to prepare to the tournament, that's was I didn't play very good already last time like in Toronto and Cincinnati. 
 That's was I try come back, you know. I have last, you know, few tournaments end this year, and I just want to prepare. Just was for me very important here, and I try my best how possible to play good here.

 Q. I'd like to ask you about the semifinal match against Argentina, Davis Cup. I'd like to know your opinion. 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Yeah, everybody to be there. Everybody want to prepare. Everybody want to win. All Russian players. All five guys. 

 Q. Are you afraid or worried about the crowd, the people?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: No, is good, because maybe, if we play in Moscow it's more, you know, pressure. But we play in Argentina we have no pressure, and we try best. 
 We have good team and we try to win. Because I don't see Argentina now very tough team, because I didn't see also so many result from Nalbandian or Cãnas, or some another Argentina players. That's was we'll see. I hope we have chance to win.

 Q. Do you see too much difference between the match of 2003? Do you expect a much better result?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Yeah, because in 2003, we losing 5-0. But Safin was injured, Kafelnikov don't care about tennis. I was injured after come back from injury, also, and it was my first tournament and first Davis Cup. 
 I should be I don't play this Davis Cup, but we have no team there when in Argentina. And now all top five guys top fir and play very well. I think we have good chance also play in Argentina.

 Q. If you were to win this tournament, is it a double-edged sword? Because along with the glory and the money will come more scrutiny and more pressure about what did happen in Poland.
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: I don't know. It's already enough for me winning Miami. I already have really good support and, you know, like this year for me, it's interesting in the city, and like everybody, you know, recognize my face, you know, like Davydenko. I was really surprising. 

 Q. The women's golf tournament is trying to push through a rule, make a rule that says players must learn English within two years of being on tour to speak to the media, speak to the sponsors. What do you think of such a rule?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Wow. Is the same, you know, speak English. But if you're pressure to say you need in two years to speak Russia or speak Chinese, what can you do? You can't. Some guys, it's difficult. 
 You know, I know you need to speak English. I know I need to speak with everyone familiar English. But maybe we need also translator. Sometimes, I also don't understand some questions. I need also translate from English to Russia, and then maybe after I can speak in English to you. 
 But I think we need also very many translator in different languages. 

 Q. Do you think tennis players get enough of the revenue, enough prize money, considering all of the revenue that the United States Tennis Association receives? There was an article in a sports business journal that tennis players don't get as good a share of the revenue as, say, football or basketball players get. 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: For me, it's fine. I like what we have. We have enough tournaments, you know. We can play 30 tournaments in a year, and if you want, you know, how many you want? 
 If you want to win, you win. That's was, like, say, Okay, next year I think it can be more prize money higher. 
 But I really disappoint about Hamburg, you know. Destroy Hamburg Masters Series, and we have now just eight Masters Series next year. I think not so good for men's tennis. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT