INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA (MEN)
May 7, 2008
Nikolay Davydenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  N. DAVYDENKO/M. Ancic  
6-2, 6-2  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. First, how do you prepare for clay court tennis differently to the hard court season after your big win in Miami? And secondly, how do you think the clay in Rome plays differently to other clay courts?  
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Okay. Well, I didn't prepare for the clay court season after Miami. After the tournament I have Davis Cup after Miami and we have clay court but it's indoor and different.   
 I play my doubles and single match and you know, coming to Estoril try to prepare there. I have no time, you know, coming -- matches every day, you know, fighting, winning.   
 I think it's like for me it was prepare in the match, you know, fighting every match, three sets, and prepare for the clay court. I have no time for the practicing and prepare before.   
 That's was is good for me was lucky to play final in Estoril and semifinal in Monte-Carlo. I was in Monte-Carlo really much better and feeling better. And I have one week off, you know, like just last week. Try a little bit take easy and, you, already prepare for the clay court.   
 And about Rome, what is different? It's really tough to say, because clay is like really different here. It's tough to running here. It's very sliding and like if I asking today possible to take water on the court after first set, it's not. But it's really terrible. Normally should be get water after first set, because it's little bit sand here and it's a little bit windy here, wind coming up, and it's really tough to play.   
 I hope now coming rain and, you know, be not so great weather can be courts much better. Because the sun and, you know, warm, and court is, you know, very hot hard.  
  
  Q. Most people say that the clay plays faster here. Is that your feeling?   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Yeah.  
  
  Q. The ball goes through the court faster.   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Yes. Looks like you have here hard court. It's like a little bit sand, like little bit clay.   
  
  Q. And the bounce is high like a clay court, or does it bounce lower, do you think?  
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: No. Here it's high. Like after serve it's very, you know, very good -- if you have very good topspin in serve it's very high.   
 I was thinking last year in Rome it's was much more better clay.   
  
  Q. Last year?   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Last year was better because, well, much more clay on these courts. I was seeing practice courts and match courts, now it's like I don't see so many clay there.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT