MASTERS SERIES MONTE-CARLO PRESENTED BY ROLEX
April 26, 2008
Nikolay Davydenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  R. NADAL/N. Davydenko
6-3, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. How much tougher is Rafa on clay than on other surfaces? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Today was different between Miami and Monte-Carlo. It's like very slow. Just try to do the same. I play good. I don't say like what I did so many mistake. I was just try to do the same game, try make winners, but I can't. It's not possible. 
 And sometimes is, you know, good tactic to go to the net, make some volley winners. It's I think only one things you can do here on clay court. But, you know, every point do some long rally. It's like against Nadal, it's pretty tough, you know, because he's fighting, like hitting back. I don't know. Physically he's top condition. 
 You know, beat him of slow surface is pretty tough. 

 Q. Why was it impossible for you today to make as many winners as you wanted?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Because, as I say, balls is more heavy, so slow. And, you know, court is clay court. It's also slow. It's was I try hitting how like -- I didn't hit so fast, but, you know, I try my best play, you know. 
 I feel balls good. But if I hit balls, for Nadal it's normal. He just running and make topspin back and, you know, running again. That's was different situation. 

 Q. Did you find him impressive today?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Uhm, no, if I see his forehand, he's lefty, is always tough because he try, you know, make very good topspin, high topspin. Of clay, it's very tough to control. 
 But if you see I play so many to the backhand. And for me was I think was more important to make some tactic and, you know, winning points. I think it's good way, you know, don't change with tactic, but maybe more control. 
 If I have more physically tough, you know, more concentration, to do the same in the futures, it's possible, you know, play good and beat Nadal. 

 Q. You seemed to give him a lot of trouble when you were making some good angles. He didn't seem very happy. He was struggling a bit. Does that give you encouragement for future matches against him?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: How I say is like, you know, for me it's like second week of clay. Already I just say I play today good, you know. I don't say I play bad. And for the futures, for the next tournaments, I hope, you know, feeling better of clay court and I play on beginning tournament already good and already can prepare for Nadal or, you know, for another guys. 
 Because Nadal, yeah, it's like here, it's like starting play well, you know, like running, running, make high topspin, never make mistake, and sometimes waiting for easy ball to make winners. Like he just concentration to every ball. And that's was if you see 6-3, 6-2, but we fighting mostly every point. 
 And, you know, I have some unluck -- some not so unlucky points I can win, but I lost. 

 Q. Is there anything especially you have to improve? You have the clay court season going on and then the Davis Cup in Argentina on clay court, too. 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Yeah, but Argentina is not Nadal. It's different situation because we play after US Open and we have one more week preparation there for the clay court. It's the same for Argentina. That's was we have both the same situation. 
 Okay, it's tough because we play in Argentina. But we have good players and I hope we also can prepare good for Argentina, play good there. 

 Q. Do you think the crucial moment of the match was when you missed four times breakpoint at 4-2?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Possible. Everything is possible, because every point was important against Nadal because he fighting every point. That's was, yes. Sometimes, yes, I have breakpoints. If I win, I have game, I won game. Should be already situation change. 
 But, you know, for me it's good week, was semifinal. Yeah, I hope I can prepare good for the Rome. I try my best play good there. 

 Q. How did you feel physically today? Yesterday you told us you were exhausted. 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Physical I was tired. I really tired here. That's why next week is good. I don't play any tournaments. I hope I can prepare for the Rome. That's was what I say? Today I was not top hundred fit physically, mentally, you know, play against Nadal. 

 Q. So you won't be going to Barcelona? Rome is next for you?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT