MASTERS SERIES MONTE-CARLO PRESENTED BY ROLEX
April 23, 2008
Nikolay Davydenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  N. DAVYDENKO/S. Bolelli  
6-2, 7-6  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. Have you a arrived after what happened in Estoril? The physical problem is gone or is still there?  
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Physical? No, no, I check yesterday by doctor, ultrasound. He didn't find anything, something, you know, injuries. And I practice two times yesterday. I was feeling okay.   
 I didn't run too much, but was okay. And I have physio here. He treat me many times, everything, my muscles.   
 You know, I was surprising. Was two sets, and my leg's okay.   
  
  Q. You played Bolelli in Miami and here. What is the difference? Do you think he's a better player on hard court or clay or the same? Do you see any difference?  
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: I think of clay was much tougher today for me against him.   
 But, yeah, he's playing much better of clay court. He have good forehand, make winners. I think he can go play of clay court.   
  
  Q. In Miami --  
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: I don't want to say about Miami.   
  
  Q. Why?   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Was different. Weather was different. We didn't play so good balls. Was tough, you know, to say how we play.   
 We play much better today. In Miami, not like this.   
  
  Q. This season has seen a few upset results with Roger and a few new faces coming on the scene. Do you think his start to the season is a sign he's maybe losing his edge a little bit or is it just a temporary thing?  
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: About Federer?   
  
  Q. Yes.   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Why we speak about Federer? I am here (laughter).   
 What I say? He won Estoril of clay court, okay? I play against him. I didn't find any, you know, some different, you know, game. He play the same game of last year. Maybe baseline, sometimes is make mistake, but have the same pressure. He have good forehand. He have good serve.   
 I don't know why he losing, you know, some matches. Like in Australian Open, maybe Djokovic play good. Maybe a little bit tired of to be No. 1 (smiling).   
 You know, we'll see. Just season starting of clay court. Questions after Wimbledon should be.   
  
  Q. Let's talk then about Davydenko.   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Yes (smiling).  
  
  Q. Davydenko is stronger on clay or hard court?   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Hard court, Miami (flexing biceps and smiling).   
 Is tough to say. Beginning of clay court. I be in final, and first round won here. Just also season start of clay. And of hard court I play good - last tournament (smiling).  
  
  Q. Let's say you have to pick a surface where you want to play the match of your life. Which surface will you pick?  
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Grass court, because I don't play so good there (laughter).   
 My opinion, I would like, you know, play on every surface the same, try to find my game in every surface. I was play good of hard court. And I also try to find now in the clay court, play the same good, like in Miami. It's tough, but possible.   
 Because my tennis, my game, you know, it can change every time. I can running fast. I play fast. You know, I cannot tell where exactly, which surface. Like I was semifinal US Open, I was semifinal in Roland Garros. That's what I cannot decide which surface.   
  
  Q. You have to play three clay court Masters Series in four weeks this month; four tournaments in four weeks if you play next week. What do you think about that? Is that too much?  
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Depends how I play. Yeah, coming to semis or final, play every day matches. Can be tired physically, mentally. But it's important not to be injury, like in Estoril, happening in the final.   
 Just to be fit, you know, for like body be fit, you know, no injuries, don't feel any, you know, painful. Possible prepare for every day.   
 You know, it's like first matches be hard, you know, to play very difficult. But then they come to semifinal, final, more easy. Feeling coordination on the court. You feel balls. You feel everything. You feel better. You play much better.  
  
  Q. Can you imagine playing the four weeks on clay courts with the same difficulties you had last year in Rome against Nadal in the semifinal, three hours on the court, very tough match?  
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: You know, was surprising how Nadal play all clay court season. You know, it's really good because he's physically top fit, yeah, every week playing, winning every tournament. I think it's very strong.   
 But I try. You know, I don't want to say now how I can play of clay. But I try my best to do something. Like if you see Monte-Carlo, I lose everything first round every year. And now I won first round. You know, I'm already happy. Something change in my life. In Monte-Carlo winning match, it's something surprising me (smiling).   
 We'll see.   
  
  Q. You say you cannot choose a surface, but could you choose a tournament?   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Miami, Miami (laughter).   
  
  Q. One tournament that you like more than the others?  
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Roland Garros.   
  
  Q. Roland Garros?  
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Yes.  
  
  Q. More than US Open?  
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Yeah, yeah. I don't know, I like Paris, this tournament, yeah. It's biggest tournament in clay court. It's perfect. You know, everything is perfect there. That's what's I feel good there.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT