QATAR EXXONMOBILE OPEN
January 2, 2013
Nikolay Davydenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DAVYDENKO/M. Youzhny
  7‑5, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Well done.   You quite often showed critical attitude to the few shots that you missed, but in fact it was a rather encouraging performance, wasn't it?
NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:   Yeah, like really is different between night session and day session play, like you feel like coordination also different.
That's was we did both many mistakes, like I was try also, was feeling like I can do some winners but it's was not so easy.
Like if I tried to push ball faster, I do mistake.   You know, I don't know why it's like you need to feel in day session practicing a lot and night session.   It's like really different.
But I don't say it was very fast.   It's was today was okay.   It was also slow normally. 
But feeling was different.   Yeah, that's was I start a little bit play different tennis, try to just moving better and try to get like more control to the ball, not do something like, you know, first fast points, you know, because sometimes after serve or returning, you can hit like forehand, try forehand winners, but today it was not easy, not possible, really.   Just play games.
Maybe it was Youzhny game was different between first match and now.   He play much more slice and low balls.   Yeah, I have really no time to prepare to hit some balls.

Q.   Given that you can only beat what is out there, whether it's the conditions or the way your opponent plays, to control the second set like that was pretty good, wasn't it?
NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:   In second set I was surprising, because it was start to be like night session, yeah. 
Like first set was feeling a little bit lazy because it's still day and sunny and warmer; then start to be cool.   Like I feel start to have more power and have better concentration.   That's was maybe in the second set.   My movement, like concentration start to be better, and like I tried to fight for every point already, don't give it so easy, like some points like so easy mistake do.

Q.   Were there any things which affected your mindset, like this is the first tournament of the new season and also immediately after the new year? 
NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:   No, no, no, because I was practicing in the same only indoors.   It was cold in Germany.   Europe it's not so easy, you know, practicing like you have here 25, 26 degrees, you know, in the day outside.
That's was maybe I need ‑‑okay, I have time, you know, before Australian Open, one week, you know, be there in Melbourne and try preparation, maybe I need to run every day, trust to feel this condition, hot condition. 
I hope, you know, I can then like survive, you know, at this time and this day when I will play.

Q.   Like you said, it's the first tournament of the season, but you're in the quarterfinals already.   You must be pleased with that?
NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:   Yes, for sure.   Like last time I lost against Federer first round, and, okay, it was bad‑luck draw for me.   I was thinking, doesn't matter, I can play very good in Australia.   Then I lost first round in Australia also.
Then I was start to thinking, okay, doesn't matter.   Maybe if I play last time not against Federer and against another guys I will be also playing not so well I can losing match.
That's was, you know, feeling different now.   For sure it's like two matches, be in quarterfinal.   It's great.   You know, Doha, again, here I hope, you know, for me it's like try to find my game, and for sure it's like important, you know, to be physically fit and everything else.   Just every match giving me some small percentage power and concentration and confidence.
I hope, you know, like next match give me something, just maybe I will be playing better.

Q.   After today's performance, you think you can get back into the top 20 or top 10?
NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:   No, I don't want to speak now about top 20 or top 10.   It's like ‑‑I never talk before also when I was already top 5, because I know I need defend all my points, defend all my tournaments.
Now just like really everybody say, Enjoy tennis.   But I don't think so we enjoy tennis, you know, because it's hard job.   You know, we need to run, we need to fight, we need to, you know, practicing, we need like go sleep early and everything, concentrate before the match.
But if you win, you for sure enjoy.   (Smiling.)
Q.   You just said that it's difficult to keep enjoying it and you enjoy it when you're winning.   But having been on the tour for so long, how are you finding extra motivation, especially for the season?   You mentioned that you want to push hard.   Where do you get this motivation from? 
NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:   No, it's like it's not motivation.   It was like, you know, thinking like last season, I didn't play so well.   I didn't win any tournament, and I finished top 50 like say before. 
And now, why not try again?   If I really concentrate and practicing and play, I want to see result.   I want to see if I really, I can play good, and maybe I finish top 30 or top 20 or top 10.   I don't know, really.   It's like not my goal.   Just for me will be interesting what is the result I can do in 2013, end of it. 

Q.   How can you describe Youzhny today?   We saw you struggle to break his serves. 
NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:   Yeah.   I have always, against Youzhny matches, that's like different between other players.   We play couple times and was always fighting.   And I won in three‑set match.   Then I lost three‑set match.
It's like‑‑ for us, it's like‑‑ I don't know.   This guy, it's like sometimes you think, okay, he's already done, and now I can beat him, and then in a couple points you think about, oh, now I start to losing already two games.
That's was ‑‑if you see, yeah, he's finishing 25, he's top 30.   For sure he last season play well.   He won tournament, play, you know, semis and finals.   And I say for me was today very important match just to see how I can compete against these guys who top 30. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT