TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 16, 2007
Nikolay Davydenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  Given the difficult year you have had, in a way it's important for you to end this year with a win. 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  You know, okay, I was like already losing two matches, and winning last match is like confidence I think still winning last match and go holiday. 

 Q.  Did you notice that González against Roddick in the last game, he actually fell a couple of times, so did you actually try to use this strategy to move him around the court as well? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  Normally I was already play against González a few times and I won of hard court, of clay court.  That's was for me was, you know, I don't think about what he beat Federer or how he play against Roddick. 

 Q.  You said after the opening ceremony you'd attend less tournaments next year.  As the highest ranked Russian player, will you attend Beijing Olympic Games? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  You know, tough questions.  Yes, because normally you play for the country, for the Russia.  Doesn't matter where is it Olympic Games in Shanghai, Australia.  You need to fly.  We fly from America, Cincinnati. 
 Try to prepare, try to play very good in China, and then come back to America.  It's pretty tough.  Pretty tough flight.  But we try the best. 

 Q.  Talking a little bit about the match, you had many breakpoints, but you didn't convert them.  Is it something with your game or you took a risk? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  You know, losing first two matches, you know, confidence is not so great.  Winning few points, coming to the net, play first volley not so great, then finishing better and better, then feeling much better for finish points. 
 That's was this was great like winning last point from the net or make winners. 

 Q.  Talking about Davis Cup, do you still have time to recover?  Will you have time to rest? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  For me it's important I try mentally to recovery an, you know, to be a little bit brown.  My color changing (smiling).  And then, you know, it's my happy face coming to Davis Cup final. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT