TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 12, 2007
Nikolay Davydenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  Do you take game as the rehearsal of the Davis Cup final? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  You know, I think was not so bad match before Davis Cup also final.  But I know if I play Davis Cup I play first match against Blake. 
 That's what's is only last match, it's Sunday.  So I don't know if it coming till Sunday.  But this was okay. 

 Q.  You did pretty well today, but you lost unfortunately.  This is the fifth time you lost to Andy Roddick.  Do you think there are certain techniques he has that really pressure you quite a bit or suppress you? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  You know, okay, was Roddick always serve good, you know, like first serve, it's very strong, and second also not so bad.  But mostly I was trying, you know, play from baseline.  And some games he play very well. 
 Like he win my, you know, serve because play some points very well from baseline.  Forehand and backhand, was long rally.  I think was, uhm, from my side, we play both okay.  Is good. 

 Q.  You seemed to have some frustration after winning the second set.  He threw his racquet.  Did you feel at that point you were going to have a lot of momentum?  Then he kind of ran away with the third set. 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  Yeah, I play like my game.  I try to do my best.  I see Roddick after serve, I returning, and he make straight mistake.  And then in the first set he start to, you know, more concentration, just play long rally and try not to do, you know, from my side mistake. 
 He play very well.  Concentration all first set was good.  I was already a little bit more tired in the third.  Just moving legs, was not so great like in the second set and first.  That's what's was maybe I did more mistake and I losing first set. 

 Q.  You challenged the last point.  Did you really think it was out? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  Normally it's was close point, but you never know what's can be, you know.  And normally some players don't trust challenge.  But what we can do if, say, like in is in. 

 Q.  Did you have some trouble with your serve?  Sometimes you served very slowly.  Was it a problem, like in Bercy, for example? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  Normally not guy to serve always fast.  That's was I think more trouble I get in Paris, Bercy, you know, like in last match.  Today, I was happy.  I was not double-fault. 
 I think for me was important to get no doubles-fault, and I didn't.  Just only one.  Is okay for me. 

 Q.  Some months ago you were not happy because not many people were paying attention to you.  You were put on peripheral courts, never on center court in a slam.  Now in the last matches you became more and more famous, but maybe you don't like it.  What was better?  Was it better before when nobody was talking about you, or is it better now that everybody's talking about you? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  Well, good questions (smiling). 
 Maybe, yeah, like some -- hmm... 

 Q.  Think about it. 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  Yeah, it's tough to say.  What about talking me, all bad things or good things?  That's was I think last time was talking about bad things, and that's was become more famous.  But normally I'm a guy who like if somebody talk about me good things.  That's was better if I be quiet, you know, if nobody talking about me anything then. 

 Q.  You don't have the sponsorship for a long time.  From the start of the year you got one.  All the news about you coming out, is your sponsorship happy or unhappy because you got a lot of publicity? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  Because I think was boss from Airness was happy already just to get -- you know, you don't want to get some tennis player because they get soccer teams, you know, like in French. 
 I think he was try with his company to make something new and coming to the tennis.  He need just only one man and one woman.  That's was me Russian and was Petrova for woman, also was Russian, also top 10. 
 I think was dealing only two guys for this company.  I tried my best, you know, for this company to play how possible good. 

 Q.  In the eighth game of the second set, you actually broke Andy.  When you answered other questions, you mentioned in the first set you didn't seek a lot of chances because you actually didn't run too fast and you were a bit tired.  In the second set you took the upper hand and broke him.  What was the problem later on in the third set? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  Okay, first set maybe I was a bit nervous and I play not so great.  Was playing slowly.  In the second set, why I broke him was because was coming new balls.  I play with only one racquet all three sets.  That's was surprising for me.  I never play like this in a long match with one racquet. 
 That's what's was maybe breaking and can play a little bit more faster in the second set, end of the second set.  But then he just tried to do no mistake and was fighting with me and was he winning third. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT