PILOT PEN TENNIS PRESENTED BY SCHICK
August 23, 2007
Nikolay Davydenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  What went wrong out there? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  He's play like the same what he did baseline:  Good, like good control.  That's why's we play some long rally and he won all rally.  I was like disappointed because normally from baseline I get more control, try to push balls and, you know, try to make some winners. 
 Today, like I try always attack and try to, you know, like win baseline and I did so many mistake, you know, like always.  Doesn't matter from like returning or serve, after my serve.  And he play well.  Just control and try, you know, do no mistake. 

 Q.  Are you tired from your match last night? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  I don't know from last night, but today, yes, I'm tired.  Because like we play like 6-4, 6-4 but I'm tired more today, not like yesterday in three sets. 

 Q.  The French players, they have a secret against you, because this summer many of them beat you? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  Every one.  Yeah, I don't know.  Maybe against French guy, but, no, like normally like I beat him before in clay court and losing in clay court and now I losing here. 
 You never know what's happening different players, different games, different tactics. 

 Q.  How are you going to get ready mentally for the US Open, or New York? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  I think now I need to like recovery, like mentally recovery.  Okay, need to be physically good, okay, because five-set matches for sure.  And I don't need to be nervous like already from starting. 
 I need to get confidence back, like coming, feeling great.  We'll see, because I have some days, like three days just to prepare for US Open. 

 Q.  When we check on your player's activity this year it seems that you have better results on big, big tournaments than on the others.  Is it because you are focusing more on your matches in big tournaments or Masters Series? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  I don't know.  Normally I try to play very well in like this tournament here also, but my result is not so great this year.  I don't know why.  And I coming to Masters Series tournament and I do better result, yeah. 
 Maybe I'm lucky more in bigger tournaments.  And, okay, five-set matches maybe I have something change, you know, play better for good concentration for the long matches. 

 Q.  Is it disappointing not having the chance to defend your title? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  Yes.  I'm disappointed, yeah, because like defending points, losing points, that's why it's not so great from my side. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT