WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 15, 2007
Nikolay Davydenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  Second set he saved two match points and forced a tiebreak.  Did you feel like he was playing better, or did you feel like your game was slipping a little bit? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  No.  Maybe I was a little bit nervous.  Like 6-4 on my serve and I try maybe just to make one first serve fast and finishing, but it didn't helping.  He returning well second serve and I was feeling a little bit, okay, like how I say nervous by baseline and losing baseline both always.  He play really better baseline and I didn't control well in tiebreak and I losing. 

 Q.  How important is this week do you think to just get the focus back on your tennis, the on-court stuff? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  For me, important I think like now all Masters Series what I did in Montreal quarterfinal and here, because I don't need defend now points.  Now I have some points -- like I'm very happy to get points here like for Shanghai also, and I also need to defend US Open semifinal.  Every point very important for me in the moment. 

 Q.  Has it been harder to focus on tennis since what happened, or not really? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  Normally it was disappoint in Montreal.  It was very tough over there, because after the tournament they come.  But now I played all week here and now it's quiet.  For me it's very nice to really concentration on the tennis, like do the same job what I did before and like play every match just concentration just for tennis. 

 Q.  How hard was it last week to do that? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  I don't know, like how explain.  Especially just mentally, very tough was mentally.  But I was playing good, that's why's I make like winning two matches there.  I was already happy in Montreal, how good I did. 

 Q.  Are you hopeful the investigation will be over soon so the people won't talk about it anymore and you'll be cleared? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  It would be good if like already was -- now it's quiet and like and nobody talk about it and I'm already happy.  I don't know.  We're in America.  It's different country.  I think it should be okay. 

 Q.  When you look at today, six of the top seeds lost.  How does that open up the draw for the remaining guys like yourself? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  It's pretty tough to play here really.  Like because from Montreal coming here it's very hot and ball fly more faster and not so good control from the racquet.  Some guys like who play before very well here, he still play well. 
 Because like if you did one, you know, time winning like final winning like Roddick, feeling great here, make good serve and playing well from baseline, he do good job. 
 Some guys cannot play very well here.  It's pretty tough.  Every match is very tough.  Doesn't matter if you winning one round you can lose in second.  Because it's like some guys if very feeling good here baseline and serve then can win.  That's why I think many guys is losing here. 

 Q.  How many days have you been able to practice?  When did you get here? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  I coming Sunday, Monday.  Have two days before my match -- like no, start Monday, Tuesday.  Like three days I have prepare here. 

 Q.  Was that enough time, do you think, to get used to the courts? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  It's pretty tough to see like how many days you need to here prepare, because it's only I thinking in America very fast.  I don't know why, but control is pretty tough.  Difficult to control ball here. 

 Q.  How did you feel you played today then against Ginepri? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  I was -- okay, Ginepri play also did many mistake from first set and second.  But we play both not so great tennis, but I would say did win -- guy who make more concentration, put ball on the court, do not so much mistake.  It's nothing like make special great tennis. 

 Q.  Be consistent. 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  Yeah.  Just play, like do less mistake you won match. 

 Q.  How is the toe injury?  How is your toe?  Does it feel better? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  Toe, you know, it's interesting thing, because ATP knows already and doctor of ATP knows I have stress fracture in the bones, and it's still stress fracture.  I send also CD with MRI to Germany and doctor say it's also the same, what everybody find. 
 I did good protection in Montreal.  Like always I do some -- I have no, like how to say, not so much pressure in the toes.  That's what I have no pain.  And always if I keep it like this to play and have no pressure still no pain, but it's still stress fracture. 

 Q.  So do you have something in your shoe to keep the pressure off of it? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  Yes.  It's not in the shoes, it's like, how do you say in English? 

 Q.  Orthopedics? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  Yeah, orthopedics.  That's what it is.  I have something there to protect me from the pain really, like pain relief. 

 Q.  As far as that investigation goes, is the ATP giving you updates, or how are you communicating with them? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  I don't know.  It's not with me now.  It's only my manager.  I just like try my -- I'm like still to play tennis.  I don't know anything now in the moment.  I don't want to know also in this moment, that's why's I was only concentration tennis. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT