INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA (MEN)
May 10, 2007
Nikolay Davydenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  (From Italian) Did you expect to find such a tough player in front of you?  You had to win the match three times.   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  It was difficult to say, because too much crowd today support him because he play at home in Italy.   
 Every my mistake public was support him, that's why I was disappoint.  And, yes, I have most chance to win before, but he play well, he fighting for every ball.  This was good match.   
  
  Q.  Is there anything you're disappointed in how you weren't able to finish it more quickly, in your game, anything that disappointed you?   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  It was -- yes, I think by 5-3 in the first set I was losing my serve.  I make three double faults, and after I change racquets to new string and I feeling more control and feel better.  Starting to do no mistake.   
  
  Q.  When you walked out to play -- I know he's in the other half of the draw -- but you looked in here and Roger was here.  Does it make any difference to your mentality knowing that he's out of the tournament, or there is sort of an excitement about that?   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  For me just important if I do good result here because I need to defend my points quarterfinal Hamburg and quarterfinal Roland Garros because I made good result in this time.   
 That's why it very great for me to play great here and get points and get mentally confidence for the next week in Hamburg and Roland Garros.   
  
  Q.  (In Italian) Do you think that you won the match on a physical basis, not only mentally?   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  I was winning because I start to play faster already in the second set, end of the second set.  My tennis started a little bit faster and aggressive, and play -- try to make more pushing ball.   
 You know, like forehand and backhand.  Try to make some winners.  That's why he was surprising and he just cannot attack me back.   
  
  Q.  (In Italian) You will meet Robredo or Simon.  Robredo is leading at the moment.  So if it's Robredo, what do you think about this opponent?   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  Robredo is clay court player.  He try to do no mistake, only top spin.  That's what I think is for me very good to play against him more and more if I play matches of clay court I have confidence in baseline and play better and better.   
 That's was for me it's now important like play very good against him just to be -- try to get more confidence here on clay courts.   
  
  Q.  Any reaction?  Are you surprised that Roger lost?  Did you watch a little bit on television, the quality of the match?   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  Maybe because he did so many mistake and he didn't play already long years against Volandri.  I think 2003 was the last match.  And he didn't know like how maybe to play against Volandri because he try to do his game, try to make winners.   
 He is -- like Volandri, he play very I think surprising.  He play very well.  Like he didn't so much mistake and not so much winners either.  He play great.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT