AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 16, 2007
Nikolay Davydenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Nikolay has a statement to read before the press conference.   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  Okay, I start.  It's about last week.   
 I made some comments immediately after my match at the Medibank International in Sydney that I now regret.  My English is not very good,  and I didn't mean to say anything bad about the tournament.  What I was trying to say was while the Sydney tournament was important, my main focus was on the Australia Open, and it was wise to stop because of my injury I had.   
 At the time of my press conference, I was very worried that my injury would force me out of Australia Open, and with that worry on my mind, I didn't express myself very clearly.   
 I would like to apologize to the tournament organize and to the fan who support the event so well.  I very much enjoy playing in Australia and now want to focus on doing the best I can in the Australia Open.   
 I hope people will understand me making a write statement because it is easy for me to properly express what I want to say.   
 That's it.  I didn't speak so bad English?  First time I read it in English.   
  
  Q.  We got it.   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  Great.   
  
  Q.  Must be tough to have hung around all day.   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  Here?  Yes, because I was warm up at 10:00.  Women was first and should be play from 11:00  till 12:00.  Should be sunny day.  Was hot weather.  Yeah, it was waiting till 8:15.  So it was pretty tough.   
 But normally it's really tough for me playing Australia because, yes, I say I was injury already from Doha, and I didn't prepare here for Australia Open.  Because I come here, I still was injured.  I make MRI here in Melbourne.  It was on Saturday, and then still pain till Monday.  That was good I play today Tuesday match.   
 It's was good coming for me from Moscow doctor, just did treatment for me these three days.  Was pain go less, just go out.  Was feeling bad, and I can't move.  And was surprising for me, because before, if he didn't come, I should be retired already Monday.  And that was maybe I don't play so well from beginning like first round.   
  
  Q.  With that on your mind, having to wait, it must have been difficult to keep your concentration for so many hours today?   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  It's like normally I have good confidence because I finish late last year and play already good in Doha, start play well, and then start like injury.  I didn't think it was some big problem.  But this was big.  Like I come to Sydney, was already like I take off two days, like fly to the Sydney.  Was still pain.  That's was I play first match.  I play three sets, two hours.  Then for next day, I was worse.  That was pain less, was more pain.  That's was I was surprising.  I think like not only muscles pain, it was like some really, really injury.   
 That's was everything from every week, every day was coming, and you try to prepare for Australia Open and you can't.  Yeah, is some mentally is also difficult.   
  
  Q.  But today is a good day?   
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  Yes, perfect for me (smiling).   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT