TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 15, 2006
Nikolay Davydenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q.  6-2, 3-1, three possibilities to make 4-1, what happened at that time?  How did it escape from you? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  I don't think about these points.  Yeah, for me was like try to fight like every point.  And I don't remember this point.  I think was for him was good because it was like we fighting every point and he was play from baseline good, I play good also from baseline. 
 For this point, I don't care, because after that I was care about 4-3 in my serve, and I losing my serve twice.  Because like I was play very well first set.  Physically was good because running fast and play very fast.  And after 4-2, I just losing power because I'm like losing concentration and power because I was like not like little bit, but was very tired.  That was maybe after this one get problem by concentration first and then losing power, like was not first serve, just for the second, and he get chance make risky by return.  He did.  That's was winning 6-4. 
 The third set, I was like try to fight.  He was already better.  He get more power.  I was less.  I was much running also than him.  Like my bad luck points from last games. 

 Q.  It's the second day that you mentioned the fact that you are tired.  Do you think it has something to do with the fact that you play so many tournaments during this year? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  No.  I just want to tell, I'm not ready for Shanghai for physically.  Tennis was good.  I don't want to say about tennis because I play very well.  Like good concentration, play very fast, but it's only for one and a half sets.  But it's not enough.  You need to finish.  You need to win two sets or three sets. 
 For only one hour, like physically, is for Shanghai top 10 guys, is not enough. 

 Q.  Why have you got physical problems right now?  You feel tired because of the season? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  No, no.  Because after, in Paris I was sick.  Like coming here, I tried to like -- I have little bronchite here.  That's was I want to keep like don't make physical training, just little bit tennis, just rest.  Because if I do some physically, I can be, you know, not injuries, can be sick more and then retire from Shanghai.  That's was I do nothing here, just a little bit tennis. 
 But I see, I tell like my brother, because we're not ready.  Tennis maybe confidence is good, tennis is good, but not physically ready.  That's what is happen. 
 I was lucky by Robredo third set.  But today was no chance. 

 Q.  You've never defeated James Blake before.  Is it because there's something with the way you play tennis that you cannot beat him or something? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  No, it's like -- it's not because I never beat Blake.  I think it's was I should be beat him today because I play well.  And I see if I play fast, he get no chance. 
 But we'll see.  I want to like good prepare for the next year.  If for sure I play against him next year, I try to beat him next year. 

 Q.  You now have to play Rafael Nadal in your last match.  Your thoughts on playing against Rafa?  Obviously, if you want to make the semis, you're going to have to win. 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  Yes.  It's like my last chance to come in semifinal.  Like I try to fight like today.  Like should be I need to win also today.  I never know what's happen against Nadal because also he try to fight, he try to run.  He play I think not so fast like Blake.  Play more topspin, a little bit slow, but also long rally.  That's was for me better if I win in two sets, not three, make it like today. 
 Yeah, only one tough against him is he is lefty.  Because to make topspin to backhand, play more topspin high, it's a little bit get problem with this surface because it's not so fast here.  He can run, he can play well.  That's was from my side, I need to play like Blake against him first round, try to play fast and short points. 

 Q.  Tonight you have many fans supporting you.  You said you're not physically ready for the top 10 guys.  How can we expect you in the third match? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  Yeah, I don't know how I can explain.  Just come for the third match.  Try to concentration.  Try to do my best.  We'll see what's happens in the match. 
 Maybe I try to fight because I can fight, you know, till maximum what I can do.  We'll see.  Because for me, need to be lucky.  Because tennis if I play good, I can beat him.  But maybe I need to play little bit more faster.  That's was like for sure, yeah, I try to win, you know.  But you never know what's happen the match. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT