QATAR EXXONMOBILE OPEN
January 8, 2011
Nikolay Davydenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. FEDERER/N. Davydenko
  6-3, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. How did you find Federer today?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: He play very well, for sure, because I played so many times against him, and today he was tough. Really played fast. He give me no chance on the return, and also he returning good. He's have first serve very good. 
 You know, if I was try to play baseline against him, he was too fast for me today. Just really was difficult to control, because he, you know, was surprising me backhand. He play, you know, also pretty good, you know, long line, cross, like make so good control.
 I don't know if he can holding this level for the all year, he can be No. 1, because it's just, you know, easy how he played final. So it's really, you know, surprising me.

 Q. You said yesterday that you wanted to play to a top 10 standard this year. Do you feel you did that today?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Yes, yes. My tennis is okay, really. I don't play -- I don't want to say I played bad today.
 No, played okay. Just Federer don't give me any chance really to realize my game just playing, because sometimes, you know, if I have chance I was -- I can, you know, feel I can do something, but today I really have low chance. Just percentage was not so good.

 Q. What did you do well? You hit the ball well sometimes?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Me? 

 Q. Yeah. 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: If you see, sometimes I do some couple good serve, first serves, you know, because I don't have any other chance to do something. Because if I have first serve, then maybe have chance to win my serve.
 Baseline, you know, percentage from baseline, control, he have much better. He made more winners. He play much faster, and I need to run. For me, here it's pretty difficult.

 Q. What do you expect from yourself in Australia?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: I don't know yet. You can ask me maybe after the first round. (Smiling.) Depends against who I play there.

 Q. If you compare now Federer playing at very high level to others like Rafa, Novak, Andy, when they play on the really best level, who is the most difficult for you to play when they are top, top? 
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: For sure Federer, because he play faster. Just good serve, and, you know, forehand, try to make winners. It's really difficult. 
 I need to move pretty fast. I don't know, last time I play against him, I think he make more mistake before, and for me was easy to try to control the baseline, play to the backhand, and then he just pushing slice, and, you know, I can hold and control baseline. 
 Today was -- I have no chance. He just play -- I play to the backhand, and he just try to make some, you know, very fast points from the backhand, also. Long line or short cross or slice, just make so fast.
 Nadal, Djokovic play the same level, same game, baseline, you know, a little bit slow, and I have always chance, you know, to control the ball and fighting for every point against these guys. That's was -- I don't know. If it's Federer, I tell you, like if can holding, you know, so fast playing, all season, it's really -- I be surprising how he be result for him this year.

 Q. You played him so many times. Is this the best match he played against you?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Maybe him, yes; me, not. If you see result, it's was different. You know, sometimes I can beat him. I have many chance before. Today I have no chance.

 Q. But he never played better against you than today?
 NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO: Yeah, I think so. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT