AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 25, 2006
Nikolay Davydenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions.  
 
 
Q.  Can you give us a summary of the match.  You played brilliantly at times. 
 
NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  The reason it was difficult, I was, is not like something happen with match, it was pretty tough.  I know how I need to play today against Federer to beat him, but this was very difficult, too much run, like I did in the first and second and the third set.  But it was some different match.  I need to play a little bit slow because if you play against Federer fast, he play also fast, more fast, get good control, and then he make winners.  I try to play topspin slowly.  He get problem by backhand, also by forehand.  He can't make winners in this time.  If I play little bit longer, like slowly, he give not so many chance to make winners for me.  It was for me more easy, but I need too much run.  It was to play forehand, backhand.  I get so many rallies.  It was difficult because he play slice and I need all time to go to play topspin, and also to be control.  You know, sometimes -- you know, Federer I think also he is tired.  I see him in tiebreak in third set.  In the fourth set, he also should be get problem.  But for me, should be I need to win the third set in tiebreak because I make few mistake.  Bad luck.  
 
Q.  Does he intimidate you? 
 
NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  Who?  
 
Q.  Federer.  Does he intimidate you into making mistakes?
 
NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  No, no, no, I don't think about anything, he's No. 1 or what.  But still sometimes he play easy in this time.  Like in tiebreak, he just make good control and try make no winners, just play also no mistake.  Sometimes like I try -- in this important, like I get set point, I try make winners, and was mistake for me.  It was -- I think it's important ball was in the third set because you never know what's happen then in the fourth set.  Because if I win the third set, I try to play better and better.  Because I was so much tired in tiebreak, it was difficult already fourth set. 
 
Q.  You said to beat him, you'd have to slow your game down.  Is that a foreign game to you? 
 
NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  It's like, you know, different surface.  Like in clay court, you can do all time topspin to play slowly.  You never know like what happen.  Like today was ball also slower.  Rally was long.  He try to push me, but this was difficult.  And we play just only rally, rally.  Was for me should be I get good chance today beat Federer.  
 
Q.  The set points in the third set you had, was it more your mistakes or his good play?
 
NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  No, it was my mistake by winners.  I say already this time I get -- should be I need to play normal topspin, not like do something winners, try to push him, just play.  Because I play all match like this, and he make mistake.  This important match, I try to make winners by forehand.  Was because I was already tired, not so good controls.  Like try winners, and was mistake.  Tiebreak, losing.  
 
Q.  Did you think you won that point at 6-5 with the forehand cross-court?
 
NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  Yeah.  
 
Q.  Did you think that you won that point? 
 
NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  You know, yeah, it's many get important balls by tiebreak.  But, you know, sometimes he play good, sometimes I play good.  But in this important match, you need to get good control and then you need to be physically concentration good.  In this important time, I was maybe a little bit concentration go down and was happen.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT