AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 23, 2006
Nikolay Davydenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  Can you tell us how you felt serving for the match being down Love-40 against a fighter. 

NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  You know, I don't think about anything.  Like was Love-40 and, you know, I don't concentration like I want to win this match, you know, my game and my serve.  But I still, you know, like try to fight, like try to fight third set and fourth set like the same in my serve.  I was I think lucky in this game because he still start to play good after 5-1, yeah.  He was in like make winners for me and was tough.  I play, it was difficult.  I cannot already run because we play already 3 hours, 30 minutes.  It was difficult to run like right and left.  If he make some make winners, it was tough for me.  But, you know, few points he make like mistake.  You know, I make good serve.  I think it was for me was lucky this point. 

Q.  And to finish it off with an ace... 

NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  Yeah, like I was concentration.  Could make first serve.  And like after you never know what's happen.  And it was good for me.  Was make like ace. 

Q.  Is your form as good as last year?

NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  Yeah, I finish like late.  I play Shanghai, and I think still my form is the same like last year.  I think it's still the same like last year here in Australia Open, quarterfinal.  Now I still like here also quarterfinal this year.  It's for me already good result. 

Q.  You were critical of the crowd in your last game.  How were they today? 

NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  Was good.  I like this.  You know, crowd, it's okay.  Like, you know, it doesn't matter.  We play many tournaments, many like Davis Cup matches in like in other city, you know, like in other country because it's very loud.  But, you know, it's not like do something people say to you, you know, bad words, you know, for the players.  This is, I never see before.  But normally, if crowd is like so loud, it's okay.  I never mind.  It's normal. 

Q.  Two sets down against Hrbaty, does knowing how many five-set matches you play in some strange way actually give you confidence?

NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  You know, I didn't believe, you know -- I think nobody believe I can win, you know, match today because I was already in third set was like losing my serve 4-3.  He's serving.  You know, I try like play the same, you know, try to fight.  This game I win like 4-All and then try come back, was 5-4.  But it was difficult also in the third set.  Finish, you know, the set because he running good, I try to running also good, and we play a long rally.  You know, was important make no mistake.  He make like many mistake in the third set.  This is for me good.

Q.  Knowing what's coming up next, either Roger or Tommy, how do you feel physically after today? 

NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  You know, I think my physically was today already better because like I play five sets.  I thinking I was dying after two sets, I cannot like running, was like difficult for me run.  And then I try running third set.  I try running already fourth set.  I thinking, like, I finish already in fourth set, I (can/can't?) retire from my match.  But still running right, left, right, left, you know.  I can't running, you know, go straight or back, you know.  Only right, left.  For me was important if he didn't make not dropshot or something like this, only play from the side.  It was better for me. 

Q.  If you were to play Roger, what are your expectations about him?  Your record is 6-0 now. 

NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  Yeah, I lost many times against him.  Sometimes I losing 7-6, 7-5.  Is difficult matches against Federer.  But I need, yeah, play I think more better, not like today.  Because all match I am running, yeah, right, left.  He playing good.  He play fast.  Federer make good serving, play many volleys.  Because Hrbaty just play from baseline.  Plus I was running, make slice, come back, we play many from baseline.  Against Federer, he just try hitting ball, then go to the net, play more volley and winners.  You know, it's pretty tough against him to play enough this match like today. 

Q.  What do you have to do well to play well against Roger, your own game?

NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  It's difficult to say.  I think I need to play more faster, like better control in from baseline. 

Q.  If you were to play Tommy Haas, what do you think about him?

NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  Haas little bit not so fast like Federer.  He's like make more topspin, and he make little bit slow.  Hrbaty play fast.  But Haas play normal, like make topspin, good slice, play good serve, but not like Federer so much go to the net or something pression.  I don't feel so much pression. 

Q.  You beat him at the French Open last year.  Hard court, what do you do?

NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  Yeah, here Rebound Ace is faster, yeah.  Little bit you need -- is different run.  In Roland Garros I can run.  I make easy run because you slicing.  Easy make topspin.  He cannot go to the net because I can play long rally.  And here he can shouldn't play faster.  He can like make net cord, something, you know, for me difficult to moving here.  I think if I moving, you know, five sets, is tough. 

Q.  What will you do tomorrow physically to get yourself ready?

NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  I think I guess maybe I go fishing for like few minutes, and then take rest little bit, little bit practicing, yeah, 15 minutes maybe.  We'll see.

Q.  Where will you go fishing?

NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  I don't know.  It's like ATP something do promotion for me somewhere here. 

Q.  Very relaxing, maybe go all day. 

NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  Yeah (smiling). 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT