TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 16, 2005
Nikolay Davydenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Everybody seems to be injured.  You're still here playing very well.  How do you rate your chances to actually stay unbeaten in this tournament? 

NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  My chance, okay, is already to be into the semifinals is big chance.  But, okay, it's like everybody injured and I'm also concentration not to be injury here because it's very tough to play.  Surface is very difficult.  If you not concentration with surface, you can be injury.  Because sometimes like Agassi was retired.  I think he get already in the match something problem, shoulder or something.  But for me, okay, I play many tournament, but I be already little bit injury, my wrist in Wimbledon.  Now I am feeling okay.  And is end of the season.  Like now I have no injury.  I think preparation for next year should be great. 

Q.  Is it any disadvantage for you coming from what most people are perceiving as the weaker group here? 

NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  What do you mean? 

Q.  Any disadvantage coming into the semifinals, saying you make it. 

NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  You know, before, like I play in Paris, like win second round or third round.  Like the ATP tell me I am already in in Shanghai.  I was surprised.  Okay, should be group is very tough, like Hewitt play and Roddick still playing.  Like I am already No. 7 because Safin was already pull out because was injury.  And then I already coming to Shanghai and was surprising because Roddick pull out, and then Hewitt don't play.  And it's was -- group was tough.  Because Agassi was, Nadal, and Gaudio.  And after my match, like Agassi was retired and Nadal didn't play no matches.  And was surprising.  I see I get chance to come into the semifinal.  I think it's, you know, it's great for me because if you get some chance, you need to take this chance, you know?  I think for the next year should be tough to play.  I think not like five guys retire for top five, you know.  Like if, you know, I am still to play great, like why not, you know.  Why I don't take this chance to come in here to the Shanghai and play semifinal. 

Q.  Ivan Ljubicic was saying yesterday that there was part of him, he said he was having a chat with his coach, and there was part of him that felt the achievement in qualifying here would not be seen as being as special as it was because of all the talk of injuries and the withdrawals.  Is there a part of you that feels that way as well, or not? 

NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  I didn't understand so question.  But I think like for Ljubicic, should be he was also first time here in Masters Series.  He's I think the best player now in indoor season because he was in the finals Masters and win two tournaments.  I think he's a favorite here also in Masters.  But, you know, he like losing Federer in three sets, and 7-6 in the third.  I think before he beat everybody here.  But, you know, Federer also top fit here.  You don't know who can, you know, win this tournament.  But for my, you know - how you say? - my group, is no Ljubicic, no Federer (smiling). 

Q.  This has been by far the best year of your career.  Is there anything that it started with?  Is there something that happened maybe last year that began this wonderful year? 

NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  You know, it's like started from January, like coming to the Doha to play semifinal, like first tournament in year.  Then straight to come to Australia Open quarterfinal.  You know, coming to the indoor season, like play quarterfinal, like few quarterfinal.  Then, you know, like semifinal.  Then win like in clay court one tournament and also semifinal.  Like was every week play quarterfinal, semifinal.  It's already mentally is go better, because like to tell me I play so many matches in this year, so many tournament.  For me, it's important to play many tournament in a year because my mentally, my confidence go better if I play every week.  I feeling like better my tennis and I can try to do something - maybe something different, maybe something better for the next week and next week, and should be to play better.  I think in the end of the year, like coming to Wimbledon, like I win my first match in grass court.  It's also amazing for me, you know.  I never like win match in grass court, and one match is already for me something important, you know.  I think it's like every week, if you win one match, it's already something important for you because you feeling like you can do in your career important things and you can in the futures play better and better. 

Q.  You say the surface is difficult here.  What does it mean exactly for you?  The surface is the same as in Paris, you have to be more careful here. 

NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  No, it's the same like in Paris.  It's the same like was in Lyon, I think, and Basel.  But like Nadal and Agassi were retired from this tournament.  He didn't play no tournament because Madrid was in hard courts surface.  And who still only to play was -- Federer didn't play also no tournament in indoor.  It's first time.  I think for Federer it doesn't matter which surface to play.  He can play on ice, it's okay (laughter).  But Ljubicic make better confidence.  He win everything, every surface.  And he like this surface.  Because for guys who play from baseline, it's difficult to run because it's very sticky and sometimes if you not so concentration for the run, you can be injury for your, you know, foot and should be you get some problem.  You know, if like Ljubicic play very fast, make serve, like serve and try to hitting one, two balls, and is very difficult to run here and like control to the ball.  Many guys here retire because it should be difficult to run. 

Q.  You will probably be the winner of your group.  Which one would you prefer to play in the semifinal:  Ljubicic or Nalbandian?

NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  Nalbandian because he is more play from baseline.  He is like is better for me control from baseline.  Because Ljubicic, I lose already in Davis Cup in Croatia, in Metz.  Is very tough to play against him in indoor, in this surface, because he make very great serve and try to play very fast.  And Nalbandian playing little bit slow and good control from baseline.  For me like today against like Gaudio, everything from baseline is for me more easy to play against Nalbandian. 

Q.  You played more than 80 matches this year, a lot of long rallies in a lot of those matches.  Have you and your brother ever sort of talked about how far you've actually run in all that time?  It must be many, many marathons. 

NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  Marathons is only maybe five sets like in the Roland Garros like, you know.  But I not tough guy.  I lose Puerta in semifinal in fifth set.  I was 4-2 in the fifth, and I lose the match.  But, you know, for me, I would say it doesn't matter how many matches I play in the year.  For me, important not to be injury.  And if I feeling great, I can play how many I can.  If I need to play hundred, I play hundred, you know, matches, how fast every week.  If I feeling good, I have like no injury, I can play every week tournament and feeling great, is why not?  I am young and I try to play. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT