TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 14, 2005
Nikolay Davydenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Congratulations for winning your first Round Robin match.  Now that we know that Rafael Nadal has withdrawn and Andre Agassi pulled out after this match, how do you look forward to your future in this tournament? 

NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  I don't know like about futures because like what today was, you know, surprising.  Agassi was starting play well but then in the second set I think he find some injury because he never play -- I already play two times against him.  He was like started in the first set, he finish the same.  But after the first set I think he get some problem somewhere and he don't want to play anymore and just he just try to play fast and like losing match.  But what my futures about, I get only two matches more.  It's Puerta and Gaudio.  Both guy -- okay, for me, I think Gaudio is more difficult because I lose already five times, but in clay court.  And for me, Puerta also clay court, and also like to play in slowly surface.  But here indoor, you never know what's happen.  Puerta also, I lose in semifinal also in Roland Garros also on clay court.  Here we play first time in hard court, in indoor, it's something maybe different. 

Q.  Everybody besides you seems to be getting hurt.  Everybody is saying the calendar, the season, is too long, there are too many tournaments.  You've played more tournaments than anybody.  At this time of the year, you just appear to be getting stronger and stronger.  Do you think there are too many tournaments?  Do you think there is too much tennis played? 

NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  I don't think so is so many tournaments because sometimes you get calendar like you get 30 tournaments in a year, normal, maximum.  But okay, it's plus if you play matches like Davis Cup.  Then if you like winning some matches, like every week if you play and you play quarterfinals, semifinal, it's lot of matches.  If I feeling something injury, feeling something, you're tired, I maybe retire from some tournament, take rest for one week and take preparation for next week.  But is normal tournament.  Is not like too much.  Like calendar go for the 30 tournament.  If you want, you can play all 30.  Or if you want, like Agassi, play only 12. 

Q.  So do you feel tired?  Do you feel weary at this time of the year?  You don't show it, if you do.  Are you a little bit fatigued now, and looking forward to a rest? 

NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  You think about after Shanghai for the next preparation for next year.  It's -- yeah, okay, it's not some -- yeah, you have not so many time to do rest because should be like after Paris, like everybody from tennis player get like maybe two weeks' rest and then already start the end of November, like maybe 20th.  Like some guys start already early to preparation for the next season.  I start maybe already from maybe middle of December.  I try after the Shanghai two weeks also take rest and then already in December preparation for next season.

Q.  But to go back to my question, do you feel tired?  Are there parts of your body that hurt at the moment?

NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  I don't know how is -- I don't think so about.  Like already I feel tired, after my like this season, too many matches to play.  But we still to play to now and this week.  I hope already we finish this week and already take rest. 

Q.  Why do you think Russians play more?  Kafelnikov used to play an enormous amount of matches, doubles and singles.  Is it just something in your mindset, something in the way you're brought up, to work harder? 

NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  I don't know.  If you feeling great, if you fit, if you have no injury, why not?  If like I am young, like why I can't play in many tournament? I like to play every week because my mentally.  Like if I don't play so many tournament, maybe my confidence are losing.  I try to play fast every week.  I think my confidence better and better.  I like try to preparation for next week better and next week and play better and better.  Like, I don't know, like if I losing first round in one tournament, then for the next tournament preparation play maybe quarterfinal, semifinal. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT