AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 26, 2005
Nikolay Davydenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What happened during the match? 
 
NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  Just, I don't know.  Start first set, about I think 3-All in the first set, then I feeling something.  Because we play short points.  This was okay.  And then one few points was long and I feeling something, I cannot breathe.  For me, today was really hot.  I don't know how feeling. It's no breathe, and then everything just only for one I cannot running, I cannot control my ball, everything.  Just I am missing everything.  And I try something to do, just call doctor, maybe something happen, something maybe better feeling. But, yeah, I take break, five minutes.  It was okay.  Started.  I break Roddick in the second set.  But only one long points, that's it.  And then I can play few, like four or five point I can lose. I don't know with him, but maybe something problem with me, maybe.  I don't know.  But I want to check. 
 
Q.  Just because it's hot?
 
NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  Yeah.  Because if I take break about like for one, for two minutes, then first two, three points was okay.  I can play.  I can control everything.  But then something is coming, coming so bad and then feeling everything really not so good. 
 
Q.  What did the doctor give you in that inhaler?
 
NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  It was -- is something like was for asthma.  Was doping, yeah.  He give me something like for the match maybe helping something, but this was not so helping. 
 
Q.  Have you had asthma for a long time?
 
NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  No, no, I never get. 
 
Q.  Andy Roddick said that he was aware that you might have breathing difficulties because you mentioned it after one of your previous matches.  He said he would never tell anybody if he had that sort of problem because it would give his next rival some kind of extra boost.  Do you regret letting people know?
 
NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  No, no, no.  Just one problem maybe is for me I start to play -- okay, I say I have good tennis now.  Just preparation, and fifth match.  But I don't know.  Weather was really hot today, yeah?  I don't know, Roddick feeling okay.  For him I see he make short everything, good points, long, short points, he make -- he get better some feeling from body. For me, today was difficult.  Because I play not with Roddick today, I play by self, I play with weather.  Just only like these points.  I didn't concentration now of match.  I now concentration of my body, how I feeling, what I do, and what I need to do later. 
 
Q.  Do you think it's only because of the sun, of the heat?
 
NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  Yeah.  Because doctor said it was the heat. 
 
Q.  If the roof was closed, do you think you would have been okay?
 
NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  Yeah, if the degrees not like today, like maybe till 30, is be better for me because it was today for me hot. 
 
Q.  Have you had the same problem before this game?
 
NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  Not like problem.  But sometimes if very hot, you can't play long points, yeah?  You try to play short points because is really hot.  You can't run so good.  And then like today was, yeah, we try to do short points.  From Roddick was okay.  He make from serve, make like -- try to do short points, just on the serve, yeah, make aces, and then hitting balls, second serve, then try to make winners, yeah?  For me was also, I want to try to do the same, but this was difficult. 
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT