AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 24, 2005
Nikolay Davydenko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Can you explain what the injury time-out was for at 5-3 in the third set? 

NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  It was difficult for me.  It was long point in my serve about 4-3.  It should be -- it was like breathing.  I don't have so many air in my stomach.  It was something pain, really pain was in my serve.  I cannot stop.  I try to finish my game and my serve and try to play short points to win.  It was lucky I won these points, and then I take break like for five minutes.  Then is coming doctor to -- I don't know.  He gave me tablet, but I don't think so something happen like with tablets.  It should be just I need to get break for like five minutes, like take rest little bit.

Q.  What did the doctor say? 

NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  I don't know.  I don't understand him because he say something from the side stomach.  For me, it doesn't matter.  I need just rest, just to get some rest five minutes.

Q.  So if Canas had got back to 5-5...

NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  Yeah, should be I'm retired in the fourth set because I really was tired in the third already.  Because I tried to -- I was break first game in the first set, and for me was important to win my serve because Canas try to make long rally to play not like long points because for him better to make like for me if I tired in the game.  But I try to do -- today it was completely different games for me.  I try to play short games, try to make winners, to go to the net, like something different what I did before.  It was good.  It was good for me I won today.

Q.  Have you ever had a problem with the breathing before? 

NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  Not -- today it was weather is nice, yeah.  I don't know how many degrees.  It was sun, yeah.  Really it was good.  I don't know.  Really, if you play like three sets, long points every time, it's really...  Before in Stuttgart I play against him, I won first set and then second, like I try to fight and then I lose.  I lose 6-1.  Is complete different.  I was dying there.  Is the same, my feeling today.  If I didn't win third set, should be I die in the fourth and the fifth.  Doesn't matter if I take rest or not, because Canas try to do -- to play many points, try to win, try to fight every ball and try to kill me today. 

Q.  It's your first quarterfinal.  How does that feel? 

NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  Yeah, it's great.  It's feeling is the same like -- I don't know.  Like I won first round, second round, third round, now fourth round, yeah.  For me feeling good if I win some tournament.  Like in ATP Tour if I win tournament, is completely different feeling.  Is really happy feeling because you got title.  Today is only I won fourth round.  It's not same, but is great for me in Grand Slam winning four rounds also. 

Q.  Next up is Andy Roddick.  You've played him three times before.  You've yet to beat him.  Do you have any idea how you're going to take him on?

NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  I say also,  before Canas, also you ask me how you play against Canas.  I say I try to do something different because I lost already against him.  Now the same, I want to see, maybe I try something different also against Roddick because Roddick good serve, yeah.  And I need to do on my serve also many points to win from my serve, yeah.  Sometimes I need to try to make break for him.  So I don't know what's happening after tomorrow.  I also going to see.

Q.  Have you identified any weaknesses in Roddick's game that you think might help you? 

NIKOLAY DAVYDENKO:  I don't know.  I don't think now about this.  Maybe in the practice tomorrow I thinking what I can do for after tomorrow. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT