HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
February 28, 2008
Amelia Yong
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Tell us about your round today.  What worked for you? 
 AMELIA YONG:  Today, well, I started off okay on the first hole.  It was not that bad.  I had a par. 
 Then the next hole I made a double.  But after that it got better and better, and then I finished up the front nine with 1-over with a bogey on the last. 
 And then I don't know why, but I just started playing really badly.  I didn't chip it well, I didn't putt it well.  I missed quite a lot of seven-footers.  I wasn't playing very well, probably because I was a bit tired. 
 THE MODERATOR:  You finished strongly on the ninth hole, which was your last one.  Just do that one. 
 AMELIA YONG:  Yeah, the last hole, actually -- I doubled the third to the last hole, which was like 16, 15.  I had a double.  I three-putted it.  And then I thought, okay, fine, I'm going to bogey everything, and I ended up bogeying.  Then the par-3 I parred it, and then I birdied the last hole. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Talk us through that last hole.  What was going through your mind?  You were 6-over. 
 AMELIA YONG:  I was 6-over, and then I was thinking, I like the number 6.  Why don't I just make par?  And then I was thinking maybe I should just play my best because this is quite a big event.  I might really need this next time, so I just hit my best and I got a birdie. 

 Q.  Have there been any special memories for you yet this week, meeting some of the big stars or going to some of the functions?  Can you just tell us some of the things that you've been doing? 
 AMELIA YONG:  Yes, there was a function at the National Museum.  It was very nice.  Yeah, I met almost like one quarter of the field at the dinner, and it was fun.  We sat down and we talked and we ate. 

 Q.  (Inaudible.) 
 AMELIA YONG:  Not at the moment, not yet. 

 Q.  What have you observed or what have you sort of picked up observing their play? 
 AMELIA YONG:  I realize that they're very focused, like through their shots.  And then like walking to your ball get like totally switched off, then they get back into the game again.  But you're kind of like in your game the whole time like starting off. 

 Q.  The way you played today, it was very aggressive, right? 
 AMELIA YONG:  Well, probably because of the age.  Like for me now, I'm not playing for the money, so I just like do whatever I think that I can do and then just go for it.  I don't really think so much about it. 

 Q.  What about tomorrow? 
 AMELIA YONG:  Tomorrow I'll do the same thing that I did today, just hopefully better. 

 Q.  What does your coach say so far? 
 AMELIA YONG:  He says I'm playing very well.  He says I've been very disobedient.  Okay, fine, let's move on and I'll go back.  And then from 40 feet away as I'm lining up my putt, she got quite annoyed with me, and she was like, it's not good that there was a thing in the way, and then it's a 40-foot putt, you usually don't hit it -- for me it's three-putt zone, but I hit it. 

 Q.  You talked about the fact that you got tired as you headed into the back nine.  Do you think the pressure got to you?  Because obviously you've played so many rounds, so many 18 holes.  How come in this particular instance you felt tired going into the last nine? 
 AMELIA YONG:  Well, when I was in the last nine, I was on the seventh hole, I was actually asking myself, was I very tired mentally or physically?  Well, I wasn't tired mentally or physically, but I just felt tired, so maybe mentally.  I'm not sure.  There's no pressure on me because I'm not playing for the money, I'm just playing for a spot, so no pressure. 

 Q.  Where was the 40-foot putt? 
 AMELIA YONG:  40-foot putt was on the short par-4.  What was that?  The short par-4 is the 8th hole. 

 Q.  You said that you liked the back nine, but you got a bogey or a double on 11.  After you got through that, what happened? 
 AMELIA YONG:  Oh, okay.  The double was -- ok, I teed off, and then my second shot, I kind of hit it fat so it came up short, like about 20 metres short of the green.  And then I hit it over a lot and three-putted it. 

 Q.  Your final thoughts on the day? 
 AMELIA YONG:  I thought I handled it quite well.  On the first tee I wasn't feeling that bad.  I thought I would be feeling worse.  But I wasn't feeling that bad.  It was quite fun, actually. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Well done, and good luck for tomorrow. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT