NHL ENTRY DRAFT
June 22, 2002
Kari Lehtonen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Did you have any idea that Atlanta would be taking you, and also, about your military obligation for next year; what is that? 
 
KARI LEHTONEN:   Of course, I think that there's a good chance to be drafted to Atlanta.  But this was a surprise for me.  The military service, it's not a problem if I go over next season, I don't have to go in the Army, so that's not a problem.  
 
Q.  How did you feel sitting there, waiting for your name to be called?  And were you surprised to hear it called number 2?
 
KARI LEHTONEN:   Of course I was nervous.  This is a big moment in my life, and now the NHL is a little bit closer.  Of course I was surprised that I was drafted second overall.  That's a very nice one.  I thought that I would go maybe the Top-10, Top-5 or Top-10, something like that, so it's a very nice surprise.  
 
Q.  I think this makes you the highest-drafted European goaltender.  Does that mean anything for European goaltenders?  Is that a trend or what do you think of that?
 
KARI LEHTONEN:   I'm very proud of that; that I am the highest pick.  I think this shows that there's good goalies in Europe, too.  I'm very proud of this, very happy. 
 
Q.  Do you expect to make the club this year coming up in September, October? 
 
KARI LEHTONEN:   Yeah, I think I have a chance, but I don't know what they want.  If they want me right away to go over, I'm ready to go.  We'll see what's happening.  
 
Q.  Would you prefer to come to North America and play next year; is that your preference? 
 
KARI LEHTONEN:   That's my big goal, to play next year in the NHL.  But, I think it's too early to say now, just ten minutes from the Draft.  I hope that next year I can play in the  NHL.  
 
Q.  Are there other Finnish goalies, do you know personally other ones that have been taken recently, that can give you some direction on how you want to approach coming into the National Hockey League? 
 
KARI LEHTONEN:   No, not any Finnish goaltenders.  Last year there was Jaime Ram, he was a Canadian goaltender, and he gave me some tips and helped me last season. 
 
Q.  There was a goaltender drafted in the last round that is just now getting to the League; do you know him at all? 
 
KARI LEHTONEN:   No, I don't know him at all.  He's five years older than me, so I don't know him. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT