KITCHENAID SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2018
Magnus Atlevi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk me through the round today.  Completely different conditions and the golf course plays differently when the wind goes up.
MAGNUS ALTLEVI: Yeah, it does.  I mean some of the approach shots, you have a bit of an uphill lie and wind against, now that 7-iron's not very easy anymore.  You really have to get the right trajectory.  If you don't, you come up 10 yards short.  And I hit, I wasn't hitting the irons as good yesterday, because yesterday the last few were magical.  I don't know where it came from, but I'm just happy it came.  Today was more, I kept my patience, didn't feel great, but I was plugging along.  I mean, it's shaky.  I haven't been playing, you're nervous.  For nothing you're nervous, you know?  And you want to play on the weekend and get going.  And then as you play along you do some good stuff, which is nice, you make a birdie or two.  So I'm very happy.
Q. You had another birdie on 1.  You must be really pleased to get a par on 2 and 3.
MAGNUS ALTLEVI: Oh, yes.  On 1 today, pin at the very back -- and yesterday I had 9-iron, today I had 6-iron, a low bullet, like that, ended up seven feet from the hole behind it.  And that putt, I could, you know, that quick it is.  I made that one.
Then I almost, I felt like I pitched it this far from the hole on 2, just over the green.  But I made par, which I was happy.
And then par on 3.  So I thought, oh, that's fantastic.  Bit of a revenge.
I took the driver on 3 today, even though the hole was short, but I mean -- well I played a 40-yard slice.  I said, I'm not going to pick up that 3-iron again.
So, yeah, I am pleased.  Now I can relax and train a little bit and look forward to the weekend.
Q. We have seen in the past at the Senior Open in particular you finished T-6 and 3rd, you relish the opportunity to prove yourself on this stage.
MAGNUS ALTLEVI: Yeah, I shouldn't say too much, but I feel, I just feel great that I passed this cut line and now I can move forward like I've done the last two times.  Now it's more easy to be free, so let's see if I can have a good weekend like I've done the other two weekends at the British Open.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT