KITCHENAID SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2018
Magnus Atlevi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So you make the best start to a tournament you could possibly make with a birdie on the 1st and then you end up 3-over --  
MAGNUS ATLEVI: After three.   
 Q.  What happened there?  
MAGNUS ATLEVI: It was just, I mean rusty, wrong decisions, a little bit insecure on the tee shot hitting a 3-iron on the par-3 or, no, third hole, in the bunker, bad lie, and I skinned it and I take the lip and it jumps back.  And then flash it out and then up nicely seven feet and then I missed that too.   
I missed a 7-footer for par.   
So I went birdie, bogey, double.  What a nightmare.   
But you don't know where your game is because we haven't been competing for 10 weeks and I'm like, come on.   
 Q.  Then you have another dropped shot but after that it's like you snapped out of it.  
MAGNUS ATLEVI: Yeah, I just said, when I hit, on 7, I had a great 6-iron in and the applause I figured, oh, this must be close, because if they applaud to me, it must be six feet.  And I was telling my caddie, come on, let's see if we can do better than the first, which would be not very hard, because three of the six that's, I'm looking for 81 today, you know?   
And it was.  It was six, seven feet past the hole.  I managed to make that one.   
Then 8 I hit a wedge sheet to two feet.   
9, hit a 3-wood to five meters and just missed an eagle putt.   
10, just short of the green, pitched up to seven feet, made it.   
The par-3 I missed a 12-footer.   
And then the next par-4 I stiffed it to one foot again.   
And then the par-3 I hit it to, what?  Eight feet past the pin.  Made that one.   
Then par-4, 14, I had a six meters putt I nearly made.   
15, I hit a 3-iron over the bloody green.  And I said, what's going on.  And I 3-putted.   
On 16, I stiffed -- well I didn't stiff it but I pitched it three feet from the hole with a 7-iron and it run five meters past, uphill like this, very makeable putt.  Didn't make it.   
17, I hit a bloody 5-iron, pitched three feet short of the pin, stayed six feet past the pin and I missed it.   
18, from the fairway bunker I hit it up to 20 feet and it just came, it just stayed behind the hole like that.   
But I'm very happy.  It was like, man, this could have been anything.  It could have been a couple of more easily, but I'm very happy.  Bad start, great in the middle, and then you mess it up in the end.  You have so many thoughts, but you have that after 10 weeks because you're not into it.  So I'm just happy I'm alive.  Very much.  So here we go.   
 Q.  And then to have that start and looking now when you are just two shots off the clubhouse lead at the moment so you can take a lot from that going into tomorrow.  
MAGNUS ATLEVI: Yeah, I can.  I mean, as you said, it wasn't like a flukey way because I felt like I had a lot more birdies coming, but, of course, so I feel like the course is to my liking, and, yeah, so I'm looking forward very much now.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT