TURNING STONE RESORT CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 2010
Bill Lunde
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MARK STEVENS: I'd like to welcome Bill Lunde, the 2010 champion at the Turning Stone Resort Championship. Bill, great finish. You closed strong with three rounds in the 60s. If you'll kind of take us through the week and then we'll take some questions.  
 BILL LUNDE: Yeah. Actually starting the week I felt good, was playing well. Scores hadn't really showed it, but I felt good coming in the week.   
 And when the tournament started, it was kind of weird, like the first five, six holes I kept driving it in the rough, and I had a couple three-putts early, and I was like, oh, God, here we go again. But was able to kind of turn it around on Thursday -- or Friday. I birdied three of my last four holes to finish at 3-under kind of to make the cut.   
 But I played well, though, Friday. So took some momentum going into the weekend, and came out yesterday and kind of lit it off and really felt good about my game.   
 And you know, it's one of those things, once the putts start going in, your confidence just increases with every putt you see go in. And that's kind of what happened.   
 And came out today and got off to a quick start birdieing the first two holes, and shooting 30 on the front side was obviously a big momentum and got my confidence going.   
 You know, I tried not to get too conservative. I tried to keep playing and trying to make birdies where I had a chance, I felt, and tried to stay in the moment and was able to kind of pull it off today.  
 MARK STEVENS: Thank you. Questions?   
  
  Q. Can you go over some more detail about your grandfather's effect and your relationship with Charley Hoffman. I heard a little bit.  
 BILL LUNDE: Right. Right. My grandfather from my dad's side, his parents lived a couple blocks from me. Both my parents worked, so during the summer I spent all my time over there with them. And on my eighth -- he wasn't a good golfer. He just enjoyed it and played all the time. And when I turned 8, I was able to go out to the club he played at and play with him. And that was a big deal. And when I first started playing, I just enjoyed driving the golf cart more than anything.  
 So I kind of -- he's the one who got me started. Charley grew up two houses down from me, and I've known Charley -- I don't even know how I ever met the guy. Since I have memory Charley's been there. And Charley and I always did everything together growing up and kind of still do. When I started playing golf, my grandfather kind of introduced it to him as well and just played junior golf growing up in San Diego and on to college at UNLV and both fortunate enough to get out to this point.  
 It's been kind of an amazing thing. I just wish my grandfather had been here to see Charley win and see me win would have been something special for him.   
  
  Q. Bill, Tim Quinn, your caddy, said you were the calmest guy on the golf course all day. Is that literally true, and is that just the way you are?  
 BILL LUNDE: No. Usually I'm griping and complaining about something and half ticked off. (Laughs). But today I just got off to a good start, and I was just trying not to think about too much of what was going on and kind of keep plugging away.   
 I hit a lot of great shots, so there wasn't a lot to complain about. The one bogey I made, you know, it didn't really bother me too much, and just kind of kept pushing along because I was right in the mix of the golf tournament at that point. So if I was going to get mad, then that wasn't going to help me try to win my first tournament.  
 So just kind of past experiences when I've had leads or chances to win on the Nationwide Tour and kind of had some bad holes and got mad and kind of lost the tournament and played a bad final round. So I've kind of learned about, you know, even when I won on the Nationwide in '08, I remember making double on my second hole, and just really didn't let it bother me. And just kind of learned over the years to keep plugging away. Yeah. That's about it.  
  
  Q. Quinn said he gave you the wrong club on No. 11. He took the blame for that bogey.  
 BILL LUNDE: Yeah. I definitely wasn't trying to hit it at the pin. It was definitely a little light of the pin on the line it went. The pin was on the front, and I was just thinking that I could get 7 to front edge versus trying to hit an easy 6 in there.   
 But you're going to pull wrong clubs. It's a fine line with where they tuck the pins these days, and it's going to happen.   
 But even though I did hit the wrong club, I had a pretty relatively easy up-and-down and just hit a poor bunker shot, so it wasn't the end of the world.  
  
  Q. And last week, just one more thing. You talked about you quit the game, did you not?  
 BILL LUNDE: I did.  
  
  Q. And then came back. Could you talk about that?  
 BILL LUNDE: Yeah. After 2005, I played Nationwide '04, '05, and '05 was a tough year and just wasn't enjoying any aspect, traveling, golf, practicing at home. None of it was -- I was doing everything because I had to, not because I wanted to.   
 And it's hard to be successful at anything, let alone this level of golf, if you don't enjoy what you're doing. So I kind of walked away from golf and got a job. My wife couldn't believe it. Every day she'd kind of come home and thinking I'd go practice, and I wouldn't. And then kind of reality set in, and I had to figure out how to get a job because I'd never really tried to do that before. So that was a whole learning experience.   
 Just working made me appreciate golf more and the lifestyle and the opportunities we have. You know, I mean your life could change in one week. You know, when you're working, you do your job really well one week, unless you're in sales you're going to get the same pay. And out here it can really have an impact on your life.   
 So I actually was working for a title company in 2006 and got let go because the whole house of cards, the housing doom, gloom, whatever you want to call it. I lost my job and didn't really know what to do and didn't have anything lined up and had kind of used all my resources to get the first two jobs I had and was kind of left with what am I going to do now. And I decided to play a mini tour in Las Vegas called the Butch Harmon Tour. It doesn't exist anymore. But it's one of those deals where you buy in for 17,000 and you play 13 events, and winner of each gets like 12, 13,000.   
 And I just figured I'd do that just as a way to try to make money. And I wasn't really -- you know, if I was having fun, I'd kind of continue with golf, but it was more just something to do rather than sit around. And my wife works. So if your wife works and she's getting up in the morning, going to a long day of work and comes home and you're home on the couch, it's not good. And the other thing when you want to go out with the boys and you gotta ask your wife for a hundred bucks, it's even more humbling. So I had to do something and started playing golf again.  
 The only way I can describe it is it was always funny kind of walking into an office, corporate America type atmosphere, and then when I started playing golf again, it just felt natural and felt like that's what I should be doing. And I'm sure part of that's because that's all I ever did.   
 But I just -- I tried to make an agreement with myself when I started playing again to -- if I could just have a better attitude right off the bat, I'd become a better player than I ever was before. And that was kind of my goal. Obviously it doesn't happen every day, but it's definitely better than it was and something I'll probably battle for the rest of my life. I'm just so competitive. I can't handle not playing well or bad breaks. It gets me down. So that's kind of how I got back into golf.  
  
  Q. So in many ways this tournament was maybe a reflection of your life a little bit; you were behind, you had to scrap just to get to make the cut, and then on the 27 holes you go 14-under par from the third round to the fourth. I mean talk about that zone. I mean none of us know what's that like to play that well for that long a period of time. What's that feel like?  
 BILL LUNDE: You know, you don't really think about much. You just kind of -- you know, I was driving the ball well, which I didn't do at the beginning of the tournament. I started driving it really well, hitting it down the fairway. So that kind of changed the whole game.   
 I went from scrambling to make pars to having 9-irons that I could hit close. So first part was driving the ball well. That really gave me the opportunity to make birdies and get myself in position to have a good putt at birdie.   
 So that was the first thing, and then a few putts started falling in. So you go from kind of like, here we go again, another week of I feel like I'm going to play good and I don't to, okay, things are really starting to come together, putts are starting to fall, driving it well, hitting some good shots in close, and just kind of a momentum thing.  
 I mean all these guys out here, you're never far from playing good. You know, you can sit here and say I'm playing awful, I don't know how I'm going to break 80 today, but you're never that far off.   
 So it's just a few things, few good shots, break here or there and some putts, and your confidence changes from doom and gloom to, wow, I got a chance to win. So I guess that's kind of the way I approached it, and I was just fortunate to hit a lot of great shots and make the putts.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about 15 and 16? You missed the birdie putt on 15. I think on 16 you teed off and then picked up. And then you ended up parring and pushing the lead for good -- or birdieing?  
 BILL LUNDE: On 15 I hit a good shot in there close, and Robert Garrigus, the guy I was playing with, had a putt on the same line I was on, a little further away. And I was kind of watching his putt, not from right behind him, of course, but watching it and it kind of fell left at the end right in the hole and he made the putt. So I go out there and I'm like probably just outside right, right edge and with the right speed it's going to take a break and go in, and I hit a putt and I was just sitting there watching it going, okay, it's gotta go left, it's gotta go left, and it didn't.   
 So I tried not to get too excited or angry about it and tried to keep plugging away. On 16 I was getting ready to hit and I thought to myself, it's not even my turn. It's Robert's tee. And so I backed away, and I'm like, Robert, I think you're up. And it was kind of a laugh about it because it's the heat of the moment and everything that's going on, all of a sudden my mind thinks it's not even your turn to hit. So that's why I backed off and we had a laugh about it, and he hit and I hit.  
  
  Q. What did you hit?  
 BILL LUNDE: I hit a 6-iron. It was 177 to the pin and a little in off the right, but hit a great shot and was able to make the putt.  
  
  Q. J.J. Henry posted that 6-under very early in the day. Did you see that number and were you thinking that a really low number was going to have to do it this afternoon?  
 BILL LUNDE: Yeah. I knew you were going to have to shoot a low score, even the leaders, even Alex was going to be able to shoot even par. But I knew you're going to have to keep pushing and making birdies to shoot a low score. Just the conditions of the golf course is so good, if you hit a good putt, it's going to go in. The greens are just perfect.  
 So I'm kind of a scoreboard watcher. You know, I like to know where I stand, if I need to make birdie or par's good, I like to know that coming down the line. So I saw he posted 16-under. I also knew guys behind me no one could catch him or catch me or could pass me.   
 You know, I played conservative when the pin was tucked or over by water or something, but when I had a chance, I tried to hit it in there close to give myself a chance for birdie. And 16 just kind of set up perfect. I hit a draw, and pin was back left and the wind's off the right so I just knew if I hit it in the middle of the green the ball going was going to drift over towards the pin. So it was just a perfect scenario for me to hit it close on that hole.  
 And then 17, 18, you know, I was kind of trying to make pars more or less.   
  
  Q. My question was similar, Bill. Did you have a number in mind when you started out, because it seemed like a day of anybody could shoot anything. I mean we've already had four 63s out there, four 64s with what's happened in the last few weeks. So did you have a number in mind that you thought about? And then I think you answered the second part of my question at the end here. Was there a point in the round here where you kind of backed off and said I don't have to be as aggressive anymore?  
 BILL LUNDE: I guess, first of all, I don't even remember -- what was your first question?   
  
  Q. It was confusing. Did you have a number in mind?  
 BILL LUNDE: Oh, no. Number in mind. No. I'm not one of those guys that goes -- if you ask me like what's the winner going to shoot this week and I'm going to say one better than second place. I don't know.  
 But I just know that scoring was so good yesterday, and with the wind being down and the conditions of the course, I just knew that you're going to have to shoot another low score. And so it's always hard to come off -- I played a great round yesterday and shot 64. It's always hard to back up a low round with another low round. But I got off to a great start today and was able to just keep the momentum going.   
 But you know, the front nine shooting 30 was obviously phenomenal. I kind of played mistake-free golf, I felt, and kind of got me in position to play the back nine.   
 And I think at points where I was conservative?   
  
  Q. Yeah. Did that become 17 and 18 where you just thought, I don't need to do anything crazy?   
 BILL LUNDE: Yeah. 17 and 18, you know, first putt on both holes was hit the fairway, especially 17. The pin's a ways back. If you get a bad lie in the rough, it could be tough to get the ball at least in the middle of the green.  
 I don't like to play too conservative, even though I was kind of in between clubs on 17. Like a really good 6-iron was going to get me probably within 15 feet short of the pin, and I knew a little 5 would get me in the back. But you know, being in the moment, you know, adrenaline and everything, I decided to hit 6 and I just kind of sat it a little bit and hit it kind of the front side of the green and was able -- I had a great two-putt there.   
 And then 18 I just wanted to hit the ball in the fairway, and once I hit a good tee shot, I knew I -- you know, it sounds easy, but I knew standing in that fairway waiting that I just needed to make 4 for a great chance to win, and the pin was over on the right, and I'm just thinking, okay, don't hit it in the bunkers on the right. Anything up the left is fine.   
 Hit it in the bunker, and then I'm like, okay, leave yourself a 60-yard bunker shot. That's real good. But then I kind of got it out in the middle of the green and two-putted. I couldn't have had a better putt to kind of coast it up there from 18 feet probably straight up the hill. Definitely was playing for par on the last two and was able to do it.  
  
  Q. Bill, I saw the big hug with one of the volunteers from Rochester. Can you talk about the Monroe Invitational and your ties there? And also you played the U.S. Am at Oak Hill. You have some ties in Upstate New York and now an even bigger memory, I guess.  
 BILL LUNDE: Yeah. Upstate New York has been very good to me. One of the first amateur tournaments I was able to get into was the MCI at Monroe. I think it was called MCI. But Monroe Invitational, and I was obviously very excited.   
 And I'll never forget, the first guy I met was the guy I hugged, Bob Jordan, when I got dropped off at the golf course. He wasn't tournament director, but he was heavily involved in running of the event. So I met him. That was the first year I was here.   
 Then the second year I came I stayed with Bob and Robin Babrina, which it was just an amazing experience. They were the nicest people in the world and made me feel at home and kind of have the same outlook on life in a lot of ways. So I got along with them well and kind of watched their kids grow up and kept in touch with them. I've known them for probably 15 years or so now.   
 In '98 I graduated college and I was going to play amateur golf that summer and won the Monroe Invitational that year, which was obviously the best thing I've done in golf at that point. And not only I did that, I met a guy who would help me financially to play professional golf, kind of a sponsor.   
 So it was an unreal week. And then I came back to Rochester later that summer for the U.S. Amateur and made a great run there, got to the semifinals with Bob Babrina on the bag, or "Dog" like everyone calls him. But he caddied for me that week, which was obviously a great experience for both him and I.   
 And I've kept in touch with all these people that I've met back here over the years. And they have friends, oddly enough, that live like three houses down from me in Las Vegas so they came out and visit them and I walk down the street and say hi.   
 And it's just been an amazing thing, great family. Bob Jordan, the volunteer; Greg Smith, Jim, Monroe, great people I've met through the Monroe Invitational I've kept in touch with over the years. So obviously it's very good to me.  
 Other than winning in San Diego or Las Vegas, this will be my place because of that connection. So it's great memory I'll have forever.   
  
  Q. Bill, did you ever play Porter Cup?  
 BILL LUNDE: Yeah. Niagara Falls.   
  
  Q. How did you do there?  
 BILL LUNDE: I couldn't remember. Yeah, I played it probably two or three times. I think I had a good finish, maybe a Top 5 or something my last year, but I couldn't tell you exactly. But that's just another great tournament up in the upper New York area, that Porter Cup over at Niagara Falls Country Club.  
  
  Q. And how does this whole thing feel now?  
 BILL LUNDE: It's getting there. I don't think it's quite real yet. I've done media stuff, but obviously this is a lot more and different subject. Usually I'm talking about, you got off to a great start, what do you have to do to stay in there for the weekend and that type of thing, so sitting up here talking about winning a golf tournament is a little surreal, and I think it'll sink in more when I -- no offense to anybody, but when I get back away from all this and with Robin and Dog.  
  
  Q. You shoot 30 on the front. You said you're a scoreboard watcher. When you see your name at the top of the leaderboard of a PGA TOUR event, what was that like, that sensation? And also, when you did take the break, how long exactly did you go without playing the competitive round?  
 BILL LUNDE: Just real quick, the break I took I went to Q-School in '05, missed the Second Stage and didn't play golf again until June of '07, so however long that is, probably November of '05 to June of '07 didn't play any golf. I played a few fun rounds here and there, but no practice, nothing.   
 And oh, scoreboard watching. I wasn't watching scoreboards early just because I knew I had to keep going, keep making birdies. The first scoreboard I saw kind of where I stood -- actually I heard someone say like "there's the leader right now." I was like, oh, I must be leading or they were talking about someone else nearby.   
 And the first time I saw it was on 10, 11, 12 -- 13 is a big scoreboard by the green and I saw J.J. finished at 16, and I was at 16 at the time. So I knew I was right in the mix of the tournament.   
 You know, and then I guess the next time -- well, when I birdied 16, I knew I'd gotten the lead, that I had a one-shot lead. And I was standing on 17 tee going, wow, I have a one-shot lead in a TOUR event with two to go. It feels a long ways away.   
 Then I finished 17, made par, and was on 18 tee and I go, okay, all I gotta do is par a par-5 to win my first PGA TOUR event, and kind of laughed a little bit with myself about, you know, if I'm standing up here on a normal day, it's like I could kick it off the tee and throw it in the trees and still make par. And under those circumstances it's a lot more difficult, but fortunate enough to do it, and it feels great.   
 MARK STEVENS: Thank you, Bill. This win gets you into your second career major next week, so best of luck.  
 BILL LUNDE: Thank you. I appreciate it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT