BUICK OPEN
July 31, 2009
Bill Lunde
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Well, you're in contention. Talk about today's round.   
 BILL LUNDE: I got off to a good start, birdied the first hole, and then had a couple of good chances.   
 Well, actually I made par on No. 11, my second hole, and then I had a good chance for birdie on 10, 11, 12, and I kind of fumbled that away, but then made good birdie on the par-5.   
 And then I drove the green on the next hole, and made like a 9-footer for eagle, so got off to a quick start, being 4-under early, and kept giving myself chances, making great shots and driving it great the last two days, and kind of making some putts here and there, so I played very well.   
  
  Q. The course like this, does it play to your skills, or no?  
 BILL LUNDE: Well, I think this course, you know, if you're driving it well -- I mean some guys might be hitting hybrids or 3-woods off these tees. I'm just hitting driver every hole.   
 So I've been driving it great, so if you're driving and playing and hitting it good, you're going to have a lot of wedges and low pitches at these greens, and you can get to the par-5s. So that's pretty much what I've been doing. I've been driving it great, so that's how I was able to score so well.   
  
  Q. Does that just give you confidence into the next hole and the next hole after that?  
 BILL LUNDE: Yeah, any time you get off to a quick start, hit some good shots, you get some momentum going, and I didn't really have any opportunities to make bogey.   
 I gave myself good chances at birdie, and this is kind of honing in your round, but any time you get off to a good start and kind of get some momentum going, and that's pretty much what happened. After being 4-under early, made a couple of birdies and kind of kept the momentum going throughout the day.  
  
  Q. Did you change the way you played at all from yesterday to today?  
 BILL LUNDE: No. I played great yesterday, too. Just a few putts here and there was the difference. Played great yesterday. I made 6 birdies yesterday, I made 7 today. Just yesterday I had two bogeys, and today I didn't have any, so drove it probably better yesterday than I did today, but pretty much I've just been driving it really well.   
  
  Q. Being at 11-under, tied for third going into the weekend, how do you approach it now?  
 BILL LUNDE: You know, just try to go out there and do the same thing, try to keep driving it well. And if you're driving it well, like I said, you're going to have a lot of short shots at these greens and good chances to make birdies.   
 If the greens get a little firmer this afternoon the last eight, nine holes, so if the greens get a little firmer, kind of pay attention to that, but other than that, just try to keep driving the ball well and give myself chances.   
  
  Q. You're 33, I believe. Are things just falling together at this point in your career?  
 BILL LUNDE: Yeah, yeah, yeah. You know, I worked for a couple years. I played Nationwide in '04 and '05 and went to work in '06 and '07 and played Nationwide last year in '08 and had a great year last year to get to this position. Had some good tournaments out here, playing solid.   
 But you know, it's just -- I don't know. Just a new appreciation for golf, I think a lot of it is, from going into working and noticing what we got to do for a living out here. So whole new appreciation for the game of golf. And seems like people get right on their prime in their 30s, so maybe something else is going on. Other than that, I don't know.   
  
  Q. What did you do in your job when you weren't golfing?  
 BILL LUNDE: I worked for the Las Vegas Challenge, the group that ran the PGA event in Las Vegas. Did that for eight, nine months, and then I worked for a title company in Las Vegas for six months, and started playing again in the middle of '07.   
 And I was in the title business, which with how the market has gone with that, so I pretty much was going to get laid off. And there was a mini Tour starting in Vegas in the summertime, and I thought if I didn't have anything else lined up, just something to play in, chance to make some money, stay at home.   
 And it went well, and I was kind of enjoying playing golf again. So went to Q-School and got back on Nationwide and kind of led to the point where I am now. So it's been kind of a roller coaster ride, but that's golf, it's always up-and-down.   
  
  Q. It's going good now, though.   
 BILL LUNDE: Yeah. Yeah. It's going great. I'm enjoying being out here, and it's a nice tournament. I've been playing well for a while, just my scoring hasn't been that great. So it's nice, I finally have a week where I'm scoring well.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT