RENO-TAHOE OPEN
August 4, 2012
Bill Lunde
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Just talk about your day.   Pretty good.   Right now you're at T2.   
BILL LUNDE:   Yeah.   I had no idea.   That's the first I know where I'm at.   
Yeah.   I made eight birdies and that's the name of this game out here.   Bogeys don't really hurt you.   I mean it's minus a point for a bogey, but you get two for a birdie, so you just gotta make as many birdies as possible.  
You know, I bogeyed the first hole today and parred the second.   So it was a little disappointing start, but then I got going good, you know.   I made a couple birdies right after that and I kind of kept it going throughout the round, so it was good.   Pleased with how I played.  
   
 Q.   What was working today for you?  
BILL LUNDE:   You know, I think I kept hitting it in the right spots and made a few putts.   No long putts or anything like that, but just kept giving myself good chances, kind of birdied the holes you're supposed to birdie out here.   Took advantage of those.   But just kind of kept the ball in front of me and made a lot of birdies.  
   
 Q.   I think you had a bogey at 16, was it?  
BILL LUNDE:   Yeah, 16.   Par‑3.   I hit it in the right greenside bunker.   Where the pin was on the left, it kind of drops right off right behind the pin from the angle I was coming, so I kind of had to be a little careful not to get over aggressive.   Anything by the hole would go down the hill off the green.   So left myself probably a 10‑footer for par, and I thought it would go left.   Kind of was questioning whether it would because the mountain, you know.   The folks out here with the mountain you gotta take in consideration.   Sure enough, it didn't break left, so I made a bogey, but kind of bounced back with birdies on...  
   
 Q.   18, what was shot sequence on that?  
BILL LUNDE:   Hit a driver.   Didn't really hit a great drive and then we thought we had 220 to the front.   Hit a great hybrid, but it came up a little short.   I don't know if we got the wrong number or wind.   Who knows.   But I was able to get it up and down from 30 yards short of the green, so it was good.  
   
 Q.   Is this the first time you've played this format?  
BILL LUNDE:   Yeah, I have.   Since I've been out here on TOUR we haven't had Stableford.   International up in Denver wasn't being played anymore.   So it's my first time.   I didn't even know what the point sequences were going into it.   I had to ask how to score like the fourth hole of the tournament on Thursday.   So it's all kind of new.   But even the first day ‑‑ first day I played awful, but I managed to make five birdies, so had me at plus four point total.   So that was actually kind of saved me even though I would have got run over score‑wise.  
The funny thing is going into this week, obviously I wanted to play well and knew I had to make a lot of birdies.   But after you get double you can kind of pick up your ball.   So I'm like, you know, it's kind of a crappy thing to say, but I kind of wanted to get to a point where I can just pick up my ball in the tournament.   And sure enough, the first hole of the tournament, hit it in the greenside bunker, knocked it out, ran my par putt way by and missed the comeback and I was like, I get to pick it up.  
   
 Q.   What about tomorrow, looking ahead to tomorrow where you are right now?  
BILL LUNDE:   Obviously I just want to play well tomorrow.   Who knows what'll happen, you know.   There's plenty of holes for the leaders to play still today.   I'm sure someone out there is going to be making a bunch of birdies.   So who knows where I'll stand.   I have to keep it going, have to keep making birdies, but just happy with the position I'm in.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT