CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK HOSPITALS CLASSIC
October 23, 2011
Bill Lunde
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What did you do for two days?
 BILL LUNDE: Actually went to the Magic Kingdom, Epcot, and Hollywood Studio I think yesterday. Did the whole park thing, and then today we kind of relaxed and hung out.

 Q. Which ride makes you throw up?
 BILL LUNDE: I don't actually like the rides. It's getting everyone else and seeing them nervous gives me (indiscernible.)

 Q. Were you able to relax at Disney World?
 BILL LUNDE: Yeah, it was funny though, because we were on 17 green and that was right when I was looking at my phone when Cameron was coming through there. I was like, Okay, this is a bad time. So I'm looking at my phone, we're at 17. I'm like, This is kind of meant to be. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 BILL LUNDE: Yeah, yeah. But, yeah, no, I mean, there was nothing I could do. I thought about it two times today when Fabian was playing it and when Cameron was playing it and today again. 
 It's still out of my hands. Nothing I could do but sit there and watch ShotTracker and see what happens.

 Q. As you look back now on the whole year, what do you take away from how this all unfolded?
 BILL LUNDE: More than anything, I think it was kind of cool to be able to make the birdies and makes eagles when I needed it the most. You know, with this whole deal on the line I knew how important those holes were. 
 I'm also very relieved that it's over and I don't have a hole to worry about anymore. Be nice to play golf. I think I'm going to bogey the first three holes on 'em next year just so I don't have to ever think about it again. (Laughing.)

 Q. When in the year does it start to click?
 BILL LUNDE: You know, it was very early. I was very aware of it early just because a couple other guys were doing well, Charley Hoffman and myself. We were all kind of joking around about it, and so we were aware of it. 
 And then as the year kept going on we kept getting more and more, you know. I remember birdieing it in Riviera and walking off the hole and just kind of making a joke, At least we got the Kodak Challenge this week. 
 So I was aware of it the whole time. When you're up there, you keep paying attention until you drop off. I just never dropped off, so it's been on my mind all year. 

 Q. Of everybody that's been with you and around you this weekend, what do you do with an extra million dollars? That's the million dollar question. 
 BILL LUNDE: Yeah, no. No major plans right now. Going to go out and have a nice dinner and live it up a little bit. Probably do a little party with family and friends when I get home. It'll be free for everybody except for Charley Hoffman who will be paying. 
 No major plans. We were in the process of looking at new houses. This will help make an easier decision. But as far as that, we're pretty simple people. Nothing big. Just happy to have the option of thinking about buying something.

 Q. Now you don't have to go to 7-11 and buy the lottery tickets. 
 BILL LUNDE: Yeah, no, exactly. I was talking to Bill Haas, he's like, You know, you win this thing, it's something you got to go out and buy something you wouldn't buy. You got to buy a car or something because it's like winning the lottery. I'm like, Maybe he's right. Maybe I should buy a car, but I don't really know what to get. I was thinking about Porsche, but I have a hard time justifying $150,000 for a car. It's not me.

 Q. How can you translate this to your golf game? 
 BILL LUNDE: Well, I think this is -- it's the same thing of being able to play when it counts the most, you know. I mean, the last month, month and a half, two months it's been big to make birdie every week. And, you know, that eagle putt on 16 knowing more -- how much it meant than I did. 
 So I think just kind of like last year when I won in Turning Stone, just being able to perform down the stretch, it was big. This kind of justifies it in another way. Being able to focus and play a hole when you absolutely have to. That's what I've been doing the last couple months. 
 It's a little different kind of pressure, but it's almost sort of like 18 holes to put together a good score, and you got to one hole today that you really need to play well.
 So it's a little different aspect. But I think more than anything, it's just another thing you can do under pressure. The more you do that, the better you'll be in golf at this level. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT