JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
September 30, 2011
Bill Lunde
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Finally made that eagle at 16.
 BILL LUNDE: Yeah. That was awesome. 

 Q. What did that feel like? You were so close yesterday.
 BILL LUNDE: Yeah. Yeah. You know, had a long putt yesterday and it just rolled over the edge, but it sure looked like it was going in from my angle at 50 feet away.

 Q. What about today's putt?
 BILL LUNDE: Today was probably, I don't know, 15 to 18 feet, something like that, with driver 4-iron, I had a good shot in there and kind of a left edge putt and down the hill. It was a good look, and fortunately I made it, and that was all I was worried about.

 Q. You continue to putt well, don't you? I mean you're just doing good things with your putter. 
 BILL LUNDE: Yeah, yeah.

 Q. What was the difference today, by the way?
 BILL LUNDE: Yesterday I putted terrible. Today I made some putts, so that was big. But you know, out here the conditions are perfect. You're getting a lot of looks, so it's always nice to make those putts.

 Q. The rest of the rebels struggled yesterday. You were the best one at 1-under.
 BILL LUNDE: Yeah.

 Q. How do you explain that?
 BILL LUNDE: You know, part of it we don't ever see the golf course like this. It's softer than we ever play it, you know, and the greens are softer than when we play it throughout the year. So it's kind of a different golf course than we're used to playing every day.

 Q. You've given yourself a little breathing room now for the weekend. How do you approach?
 BILL LUNDE: Just try to make as many birdies as possible. Yeah, I mean you have to get to 20-under. I mean the score's not going to change. So I think 12-under is leading, Kevin Na, so you're going to have to get to 20. So I got a long --

 Q. Does your Kodak Challenge plan change at all?
 BILL LUNDE: No. I'm going to play next week. I don't know if I'm going to play the last two now, Sea Island and Orlando.

 Q. But you'll be at San Martin?
 BILL LUNDE: Yeah. Definitely playing next week.

 Q. Talk a little bit about the excitement of the Kodak Challenge, especially with just two or three holes left. Everybody's watching that leaderboard.
 BILL LUNDE: Yeah. I've been playing with Cameron Tringale. He's two shots behind me. We both made birdie yesterday, and I almost made mine, and he almost made it right after me, so it was big today just to get that eagle, and it got me to 19-under through 18 holes, which is huge. That was my ultimate goal. So hopefully he doesn't play too many more. 

 Q. So are you finally thinking about this million bucks now? Can you realistically start thinking about --
BILL LUNDE: I'm not thinking about spending it or anything. It's a step closer.

 Q. What about banking it?
 BILL LUNDE: I'll think about it when it's all over, but definitely 19-under feels pretty good. I knew if I got to 19, I'd have a really good shot at it. 
 So just kind of relieved, but still, you just never know what's going to happen. Someone makes a crazy shot. Next week someone could make a hole-in-one, jump up there. You know, things have to fall into place, but you know, that was my ultimate goal was to make eagle on 16. So I'm very happy about that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT