JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
September 27, 2011
Bill Lunde
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: All right, Bill. Kind of got an interesting season going on this year with the Kodak Challenge, playing for a million dollars there. You know, you're having a great season. You played in the Deutsche Bank. So you're having a great year. Just kind of talk about your thoughts coming into the Fall Series and what you're looking to accomplish.  
 BILL LUNDE: I feel like I am having a good year, even though Money List wise, I'm like around 115th. But I feel like I've played well, really played more consistent and well all year. Just I haven't had one Top 10 all year. And so you know, a high finish is the only thing missing on the year. But fortunately with winning last year I'm okay on the Money List for my status for next year, 2012.   
 But most importantly right now we got the Fall Series and we got four events left in the Kodak Challenge which kind of started out as kind of a grudge match between a couple of guys out here. You know, we kind of -- earlier in the year, I remember at Phoenix like Jarrod Lyle and Charley, we were all up there and kind of talking about it and trying to make sure that one didn't get ahead of the other.   
 So since Phoenix I've been grinding on this. And now we're here at the home stretch. And you know, it's going to be fun. I've got four events to kind of descend everybody, and hopefully I'll come away with that million dollar check, but it does add a little excitement to the Fall Series. Usually I would probably only play here and Frys, and now it depends on what happens these next two weeks whether I go to Sea Island and Orlando. So I think that's kind of how it's designed. You know, the guys that are up there, give them some more incentive to play here in the Fall Series. So I think that's worked.  
 THE MODERATOR: What about two-stroke cushion? Do you feel comfortable or what are your thoughts?   
 BILL LUNDE: I mean I don't think it's enough. I mean I'd like -- ideally, you know, I'm 17-under through whatever my best 18 holes. It's pretty reasonable to think I'll get 18 out of 18. My kind of goal is to get to 19. And you know, we got two great chances this week and it's kind of anyone's game. It comes down to hitting solid shots and it's kind of a putting contest. But if that wind picks up, I think you'll see the local guys have a real advantage, because you know, the wind here, you know, it's pretty gusty. It comes from everywhere, and it's not like a five to ten cool breeze out of the north. You know, it's kind of ideal or it's probably 30 to 40.  
  
  Q. Sure. I mean you go to all the stops. How does the Vegas stop compare to some of the other places? What is it about playing here or this course or this town that has a good feel about it?  
 BILL LUNDE: Right. The good thing about Las Vegas is it's a home match for me. It's a hometown event. So there's a few extra things that go on through the week, helping out with Charley Hoffman's foundation, and just friends and family coming into town for the event. So it adds a little different than when I'm say in Atlanta and it's just kind of me and my caddy and just kind of going about it. But it's always nice to wake up in your own bed and have a home-cooked meal.   
 So that's a huge plus, and it'll always be a place I'm very comfortable with. I mean I grew up in San Diego, but this is more home to me now than San Diego. So it means a lot for all of us local guys, especially guys that went to UNLV to play well this week and take advantage of all the experience we have out here.   
  
  Q. Tell me just for the record what are your thoughts going into the Kodak Challenge hole. How are you going to play it this week and what are you expecting?  
 BILL LUNDE: Well, you know, it's a par-5. You know, they've added some trees down the right side in the last couple years. So it's changed the tee shot a little bit. You gotta kind of keep it down the left more now. Before you could kind of keep it down the right and kind of get up and over the hill. But now when you go down the right those trees kind of block you out.   
 So most importantly, hit a good tee shot. That's the most important part of the hole because then you know you're going to leave yourself mid to long iron into the green, and without hitting that good tee shot you're not going to have that opportunity to lay up. Or you can still make birdie the other way or even eagle, but I just think the tee shot is the most important.   
 But you know, like I said, I just want to get -- it would be great to eagle it the first day, but it's just such a relief when I get the birdie out of the way and then I can be more aggressive on the second shot.   
 But it's funny because, you know, I remember in Greensboro this year, the first day I had probably a 20-footer for eagle. And I mean I left the thing four feet short, and I got over it. And here it's like my sixth hole on Thursday morning and I'm like nervous. There's so much going on with this Kodak Challenge.   
  
  Q. And has Charley kind of calmed down on his smack talk now that he's three shots back?  
 BILL LUNDE: Charley hasn't calmed down since we were five years old.  
  
  Q. You still got the friendly competition going on in this thing?  
 BILL LUNDE: Yeah, for sure. He claims I think originally this was going to be his last event, but he said if he makes eagle this week, he's playing them all. He's going to try to take the money out of my pocket. And then we get back to at that point I don't care who wins.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT