THE BARCLAYS
August 27, 2011
Bill Lunde
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   BILL LUNDE: It's good that we are going to Boston, the last couple of years, I made the cut at Liberty National and didn't advance and last year I missed the cut and didn't advance so at least it's a step in the right direction.   
 More than anything pleased with how I drove the ball today. The first two days that's what I struggled on the most. Playing well and just keeping the momentum going for next week.  
  
  Q. Describe the putt on 18.   
 BILL LUNDE: Probably it was 20 feet, left-to-right, probably six to eight inches, had to break from the left to the right, is what it ended up doing and the last couple of birdie putts I had an 8 and 7, I left short and so the one thing I was thinking of was just make sure I gave David a chance -- make it, miss, more than anything, I just know the last hole -- inaudible -- was just trying to get it into the hole and it went in with pretty solid speed.  
  
  Q. Obviously a good opportunity to play in the event, when you missed out, does it hurt your pride sitting out?  
 BILL LUNDE: Depends where you are on the Money List. You definitely want to keep advancing. And there's a lot that -- with these Playoffs, a good finish in one of these events can jump you way up to the top and you get to THE TOUR Championship. You know, Top-30, that gets you in all of the majors. That's huge. So that's a big goal here. I think for everyone to be inside the Top-30 to make it to THE TOUR Championship.   
 So you know, I think more than anything, it's just a great opportunity. If you don't, you know, the way I look at it is kind of a win/win. Obviously be disappointed if I didn't advance, but then I'd have a month off. It's been a long year so this time of year, those weeks off start to mean a lot.  
  
  Q. Do you have travel plans to go to Boston?  
 BILL LUNDE: I had a flight on hold to go to Vegas. I had no idea which way I was going. I just knew there was no flights on Sunday, and it was going to be my last chance to get out of here before the hurricane came.  
  
  Q. What will you do now?  
 BILL LUNDE: Go to the hotel, hang out. Might drive up towards Boston today. I don't know, I have to see what the weather is like. I heard it's kind of breaking up, so I really don't want to -- would like to go and relax and leave tomorrow but I don't know if that's an option.  
  
  Q. How cognizant were you during the day where you stood?  
 BILL LUNDE: No idea. We actually kind of checked the phone on 18 while we were waiting, I knew tied for 36 but on the phone there was no projected FedExCup cutoff point. Ian and I were both in the same boat and trying to see where we were and I knew he was behind me, but ahead of me, so that wasn't helping me, he kept pouring in birdies and I'm like, well, that one is going to hurt a little more. Really had no idea.   
  
  Q. Did you get a sense that these guys played with desperation out there?  
 BILL LUNDE: I definitely knew I needed a good round. I didn't know what that number would be. I knew I had to play well to go to Boston. That's all I knew. I didn't know if it's -- it's impossible to know. All depends on who is in front of me, it's impossible to figure out. I just said if I play good today, great, I'm going to Boston and if not, it's my fault.   
  
  Q. Who checked the phone?  
 BILL LUNDE: I think Ian's caddie is the one that got it out and we were -- no, it was Joe's caddie, Ogilvie. Because first he said it looks like the storm is breaking up and it's not going to be that bad tomorrow but then kind of, yeah, look at the scores, see where we stand.   
  
  Q. Isn't there a PGA TOUR reg about phones on the course?  
 BILL LUNDE: I don't think you can make any phone calls. You can't do anything that's going to help you. I don't think it's recommended but it's not.  
  
  Q. Not forbidden.   
 BILL LUNDE: It's not forbidden. Use caution.   
  
  Q. Ernie Els, Harrington, guys of that ilk, at the last second put Wyndham on their schedule and grind -- does that validate --  
 BILL LUNDE: Does it validate it? You know, Ernie Els, those guys, they play such a light schedule and not a lot of events. So if they don't perform well then it kind of backfires, and they add a Wyndham to try to get in the Playoffs. But.  
 I think that shows what the Playoffs can do, they get in and they play well and you get into the Top-30 and you get into all of the majors. I don't know if that applies to all of the guys you named but that's the big thing, getting to the Playoffs.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT