NHL ENTRY DRAFT
July 8, 1995
Chad Kilger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
No, I think we are both happy, he was feeling a little pressure this morning and so was I. I think it is an exciting day. It is a opportunity for me. To develop myself into a hockey -- an NHL player. 
 
It would be a great opportunity. He is a great player. And he is quick. He has great hands. He's just it's going to be a great player. It will be an honor to play with him. 
 
Yes, definitely, I mean as a young kid most young Canadian kids want to play in the NHL and this is giving me the an opportunity to do that. 
 
Yes, hopefully, definitely. 
 
Yes. Brian Bird and myself went down to Anaheim about three weeks ago. 
 
Yes, I think they flew about six or seven or eight guys down there. It was a fun time they showed us than around the city and we watched the Angeles play a game, visited Disneyland. It seems like a great place. 
 
Well, I think he has always been around and help me a lot. I mean through his hockey career he's always there helping me out. Constantly giving me support and everything. He has been a great help. He is my inspiration. I think he's a great guy. 
 
Yes. I'm not interested in that right now. 
 
I think it will be greatest I watched him a lot this year through satellite. He is a great player Andy and mean if it would be a great opportunity for me to play with him. 
 
It was a lot of long wait. I mean everyone is excited and waiting to see and it's a great feeling when you hear your name called. 
 
As the week goes on you get a little more nervous and you start questions go yourself. I mean I'm happy with going to the organization that I have the opportunity to playing there.  
 
I'm happy with -- I mean I'm going to go to camp with the state of mind of trying to make the team and they'll evaluate my development there and if they feel that my development is good enough and I can play with them, then I'll be happy to stay there and if not I'll go back to junior. Then that's fine. 
 
How are you doing? I feel pretty good I mean I think I have a good enough skating I feel pretty strong to be do weights ever since the season is done I feel pretty good. My state of mind in going to camp is trying to make the team and we'll see what happens from there. 
 
Yeah. I hope so I mean I think with my size that hopefully I can create some room for him and he has got a great great passer and hopefully if I drive the net he'll find me -- we'll see how things work out. 
 
Well I think so I mean their expansion team so I mean there is a lot of growing to do I think in the organization. So I mean yeah every night you have to go out and compete no matter what the score is you have to keep working hard and I'm ready to do that and we'll see what happens. 
 
It was real exciting. I mean we were sitting there kind of waiting and see what happens your heart rate starts to -- picks up. Everyone is sitting there waiting to see what happens. I'm mean I am very happy to be in the Anaheim organization and it's a great feeling to be wanted. 
 
No, I mean there was possibility anywhere from two to six. I mean I wasn't sure I was hoping to end up in the top five and I mean at four I'm very happy to be in that organization. 
 
Definitely I mean it is such a great place. It was a great organization with Mr. Ferrar and Mr. McNallen they're all very first class. I enjoyed the whole trip and their hockey club is developing so fast. I think they are going to be a great team in the future. Definitely. I enjoy the opportunity of being there. 
 
This summer I'm going to keep working hard around going to the state of mind trying to make the to Anaheim -- if that happens, I mean that's great, and if not, I'll try to go back to junior. It's depends where my development is at. 
 
Not at all. I mean that's only one year hopefully in a long career. If they feel I can use another year of development, that's fine. I'd be happy with that. 
 
It's a great feeling. I mean it's an honor to be picked and be part of the organization. It's a big rush. 
 
I mean, yeah, there is a lot of hype and you try and keep it out of your mind. You are kind of exciting at the opportunity of getting drafted. I think coming -- sitting down once you sit down, the nerves start to hit you a little, you question yourself. But things worked out well. 
 
I mean I'm constantly trying to improve myself just trying to get stronger. Everything I want to improve and I want to keep on developing in general. I think I've been working on a strengths for a while and that's improving I have a fitness trainer who works with me. 
 
End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT