BAYLOR UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 15, 2018
James Lynch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Duke - 40, Baylor - 27   
 Q.  Coach mentioned that he felt like, not to take anything away from Duke, but that a lot of today was self-inflicted errors, that kind of thing.  You know, how frustrating is that, and how do you get past that?  
JAMES LYNCH: It is frustrating to feel like you kind of gave away a game when you come out in the first half and kind of just play like it's not how we're supposed to play.  Come out in the second half and show what we can actually do, and come back from 23-0 to make it a game.   
It's frustrating to know that we're better than what we showed.  So we've got to find a way to play a full game, and find a way to do that before we play Kansas.   
 Q.  Defensively, what do you all most need to improve?  
JAMES LYNCH: I would say same thing as last week.  We've still got to work on everybody that's playing with full effort.  But making sure we're communicating and being on the same page, and showing that the other team disguising and making them confused so we can play to the full potential of our defense?   
 Q.  What was the message at halftime?  Because like you said, you all did come out in the second half and play better?  
JAMES LYNCH: The halftime was pretty simple, it was just be us.  We went out and showed somebody or showed everybody who we really weren't.  The coaches came in calm and just told us that they're really not better than us, we're just beating ourselves.  So we've got to come out in the second half and be us and play like Baylor should play.   
 Q.  Coach mentioned that, you know, we need to get to a point where we can hit that reset button sooner, where it doesn't take until halftime to do that.  How do you get to that point?  
JAMES LYNCH: It's just the mindset we have is what's next?  They score a touchdown, it's just what's next?  We can't think about oh, they're up by 20, so we give up.  It's just what's next?  We know we can play with them, and we know we can come back from 23-0.  So we've got to realize that before it gets to 23-0.  We've got to realize it at 14-0.  And we have to snap out of it and play like we should.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT