SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2006
Darrell Kestner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Take us through that back nine.  It seems like you kind of had a wild ride there and especially after yesterday when it seemed pretty steady?
DARRELL KESTNER:  Yeah, yesterday it was nine straight pars and then today it was, I was trying to have a good round and it was a roller coaster.  I made a stupid bogey on 10 but then came back with a great birdie on 11.

And then on 12, 13, I got it in a down slope of the bunker, that par three and I'm looking right at the water and trying to figure out how I can get it out of the bunker and keep it short of the water.  And I advanced it to where I had an uphill lie and then blasted out and happened to miss the putt.  So I made a double there.

And then it felt like I really didn't hit a bad shot, just got a bad break there.

But then it came right back with a great birdie on the next hole and then a beautiful 8 iron that landed right in line with the pin about 10 feet short and rolled right in and made an eagle on 15.  So that was wonderful to kind of get back from making that double bogey with out really a bad shot.

So you take the good with the bad and but it was exciting.  It was good.  Making that eagle out.
Q.  How far out there were you?
DARRELL KESTNER:  I was 150 yards and I hit an 8 iron right in the hole.
Q.  Tell me a little bit about the golf course and these conditions, has it been tough out there?
DARRELL KESTNER:  The wind was tough to gauge today.  So many missed greens because you're not pulling the right clubs, you're pulling too much club one time, not enough club on another time, and it's a test on your patience.  So it's such a beautiful golf course, great conditions, a great Major championship test.  But with the wind conditions swirling around it makes it even more difficult.  So you got to be very, very patient out there.  It's in great condition.  You can make putts.
Q.  Just give me a little bit of your thoughts going into the weekend now.
DARRELL KESTNER:  My goal is to try to make the cut and make a good showing here.  I'm a club pro.  I been working, giving lessons, back there in New York.  And it's been raining and cold and we haven't been playing that much golf and so but when I played, I played well.  So I was hoping to make the cut here, make a good showing and now like last year, I made the cut and I finished okay.  But I want to try to do, try to do a little bit better this year.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT