NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v SPURS
June 1, 2012
Kevin Durant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  KEVIN DURANT:   We just missed a few.   The first half we covered for each other on the pick‑and‑rolls, the bigs also.   Like coach said, we've got to make plays.   I think that's the big thing.   Switching, we didn't really make a huge adjustment, we just played harder.

Q.   Fisher said desperate's not the right word to use for what you went through last night and what you might go through tomorrow. 
KEVIN DURANT:   Yeah, I would say there is a sense of urgency.   (No microphone).

Q.   How quickly did last night's game leave your mind and you turned around to focus Game 4? 
KEVIN DURANT:   It was over with once the buzzer sounded for me.   I knew we were kind of winding down.   It was such a quick turnaround in the playoffs this year.   We've got to get ready for tomorrow's game.   We know it's going to be so much tougher and more physical for those guys coming at us.   So we've got to prepare for it. 
Like I said, we've got to play smart, hard, and we'll see what happens.

Q.   The distribution in your offense was much better across the team.   Why? 
KEVIN DURANT:   We just made a conscious effort to make the right plays.   (No microphone) how we could have made a better pass.   And pass up a good shot for a great shot, and that's what we did last night.   The Spurs make you work.   They make you work.   It's tough to get baskets let alone easy baskets. 

Q.   (No microphone)?
KEVIN DURANT:   I think our defense kind of dictated our offense.   In the second half, it was great (No microphone).   Serge did a good job.   It's not an easy task.   We work hard on it every day, and we have to work on those opportunities.

Q.   How important is Thabo for your team, for your defense?   There is a saying that defenses win championships. 
KEVIN DURANT:   Yeah, he's like that.   We look to stop one of the main guys on the team, and he did a good job of using his hands, getting deflections, and helping us get out on the break to get some good offense.   His adjustments really set the tone for us. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT