NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v SPURS
May 28, 2012
Kevin Durant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Kevin, talk about the fourth quarter what was going on down the stretch? 
KEVIN DURANT:   I was trying to get the ball in my hands and make a play.   The Spurs do a good job of knowing your plays and kind of taking you out of it.   But we played basketball.   Just trying to make plays.

Q.   How difficult is it to know the balancing act, trying to force the issue and make a play and keep that ball movement alive? 
KEVIN DURANT:   It's all about making the correct play.   Somebody's open, pass them the ball.   I trust in all my teammates to make shots and to convert on plays.   It's just part of growing up and really taking over or getting a ball to my teammate.

Q.   (No microphone)?
KEVIN DURANT:   It's all about making adjustments and watching film.   Trying to be better, and looking forward to a good game today.

Q.   You weren't as successful as a team driving to the basket and finishing.   Is Tim Duncan a part of that?
KEVIN DURANT:   No. It's not like he's blocking all our shots or contesting all our shots.   Missed a dunk, missed a few lay‑ups. 
We're going to keep going after these guys to try to get to the paint and try to get to the free‑throw line.

Q.   How valuable is a guy like Stephen Jackson to their team? 
KEVIN DURANT:   They have a nice ballot team.   Stephen Jackson's been playing well in this league for a while.   Played with him before.   Manu off the bench, and Gary off the bench.   They have a lot of guys from top to bottom that can play.

Q.   (No microphone)?
KEVIN DURANT:   Every possession is important in the playoffs.   You know that.   We know that.   It was a tough loss last night.   Hopefully we'll be able to bounce back in Game 2.

Q.   Can you talk about the importance of getting out of here with a split? 
KEVIN DURANT:   Yeah, that's what we came in here for is to try to get a W.   We wanted to get two.   Unfortunately, we didn't do that last night.   So tomorrow we're going to try to get one and go back home.

Q.   You've had success with James having the ball in his hands in the fourth quarter.   Is there a time where that's more successful and conducive to success than other times? 
KEVIN DURANT:   Fourth quarter, really, the start of the fourth quarter James gets going.   And he came out here with a few shots in the fourth.   (No microphone) he's got to keep driving the ball and keep being himself. 
We all miss some shots, and we can't get down on ourselves.   We've got to keep pushing.

Q.   Last year's playoffs started with a Game 1 loss.   Is that something you thought about? 
KEVIN DURANT:   Last year we lost Game 1 and came back and won Game 2 and put ourselves in a good position to go back home.   So hopefully we'll do that tomorrow.

Q.   You guys executed on defense for most of the game last night.   What are some things you can draw from that? 
KEVIN DURANT:   Just got to put it together for 48 minutes.   It's a long game.   We did things well on the defensive end; we've just got to do a better job.

Q.   Is it any harder to do in the playoffs like this time on the stage? 
KEVIN DURANT:   I don't think so.   You've got to be ready.   I think we will be.   We played hard.   We fought all game last night.   We've got to keep it up, make some adjustments.   But I believe in our coaches, and I think they're going to do the right thing as far as trying to make us better.   So we're all confident and keeping our heads up.   We can't get too down on ourselves.   We've got to keep fighting. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT