NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 26, 2012
Kevin Durant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.   You walked in smiling, what does it mean to you to win this?   And just another thing to prove, that you're one of the top two, three, four player, if not the top player, in the NBA?
KEVIN DURANT:   Well, man, it's just exciting to be named the All‑Star, but to step it up another level and become MVP, it's only something that as a kid you dream about.   Coming from where I come from, I didn't think I would be here.   Everything has just been a blessing to me.   I'm excited.   You know, I'm glad I'm taking this back to Oklahoma City, as well. 

Q.   Talk about the stretch, down the stretch, the fourth quarter, how it got so intense.   What was going through your mind in the last couple minutes of the game?
KEVIN DURANT:   Well, just try to execute, make the right plays and shoot the right shots, and with all these great players on the floor, you never know what will happen.   Guys making big shots, and they cut it down to one.   We were up 18. 
It was fun.   It was fun.   That's the type of All‑Star Game you want to see.   I'm glad I won.   I'm glad I got MVP. 

Q.   Was it your mindset to come out as aggressive as you did tonight?
KEVIN DURANT:   I'm always like that.   You know, every game I play in, try to be aggressive and be myself.   It made it easier having my coaches over there, as well. 
It was fun, man.   Just this whole thing has been crazy for me.   I'm excited.   Hopefully I maintain this level throughout the rest of the season. 

Q.   How special is this to share it with Coach Brooks and the coaching staff and Russell, as well?
KEVIN DURANT:   It's very special, like I said, I'm thankful for Coach Brooks and how he's helped me become a better player, Russell, as well, and not just them, my whole team, as well.   Man, words can't describe it, man.   I'm happy and I'm excited.   There's a lot of different words I can use, but I'm glad I'm taking this back.

Q.   How surprised were you that you got as many minutes as you did tonight?
KEVIN DURANT:   I wasn't surprised at all.   Me and Scotty been talking about this for a couple weeks.   Playing alongside these great players was a lot of fun.   People sacrificed shots, and that's what you like to see from superstars. 

Q.   Where does this rank in your thrills of playing in the NBA and international play?
KEVIN DURANT:   It's right up there at the top.   As a kid you dream of playing in an All‑Star Game, but to be MVP is another level.   I keep saying it, but I'm excited I got it, and I'm glad I get to celebrate this with my family and my teammates and everybody in Oklahoma City.   We'll see if I get another one down the line. 

Q.   You talked about where you come from and being a kid.   Last year you almost won the MVP.   Talk about last year and talk about growing up back in Maryland and running up and down that hill in comparison to where we are today. 
KEVIN DURANT:   Man, that's a long time ago, man.   That all prepared me for where I am today.   Last year I was aggressive, and I felt like I belonged.   It was my first time starting.   So I felt a little bit more comfortable.   And this year I just tried to be myself, and it also helped playing in all those charity games before the lockout, as well.   This is like another one of those.   You know, taking home the MVP means a lot. 

Q.   Were you aware of how close you were to Wilt Chamberlain's scoring record of 42?   And did you want to go out and get it?
KEVIN DURANT:   I didn't know.   I didn't know.   I missed some shots that I thought I should have made, missed a couple free throws.   But you know, MVP is something that you want to get in this game, and I'm glad I got it.   It made me feel better, all the guys congratulated me.   It's just crazy right now that I can hoist this trophy. 

Q.   When did you feel like, maybe I can get the MVP in the game? 
KEVIN DURANT:   After the first quarter.   You know, I had a rhythm going.   Guys were feeding me.   I hit a few shots, and I was being aggressive.   We had a good lead, as well.   I had an idea that I can get the award, but like I said, with so many great players on the floor, you never know what can happen.   But I'm glad I'm taking it home. 

Q.   Last year you told me you still didn't feel like a star.   Do you finally feel like a star after winning an MVP?
KEVIN DURANT:   I wouldn't say that just yet.   Hopefully.   Hopefully soon I can say that.   But just being here has been fun for me.   I'm glad I got to be here with my coaches and my teammate Russell.   Once I grow old, I can tell my kids that I got an All‑Star Game trophy. 

Q.   Since 2003 Western Conference All‑Star Game MVP had either been Kobe or Shaq.   After that first quarter, Kobe had it going a little bit.   Was there any thought like, we just can't let this guy get it again?
KEVIN DURANT:   I wasn't concerned about that.   I'm a big Kobe fan and he was hitting shots.   I knew it was going to come back around.   Chris Paul is an unbelievable point guard, Tony Parker is, Russell, Steve Nash, and those guys had the ball in their hands and they were trying to find us.   I just had to do my part making shots. 

Q.   With the performance that you and Russell put on and then the performance LeBron and D Wade put on on the other side, what do you think about a possible matchup with the Heat and the Thunder in the NBA Finals?
KEVIN DURANT:   You're taking it down the line, man.   It's too early for that.   We're trying to take it a game at a time, a day at a time.   I know in Oklahoma City we look forward to getting better every day, and we'll see what happens. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT