NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v MAVERICKS
May 24, 2011
Kevin Durant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   KEVIN DURANT: We've got to try to stay as positive as we can and take it a possession at a time and see what we can do.

 Q. What's the challenge of 3-1? There's been very few teams that have come back from that. 
 KEVIN DURANT: Just having faith that you can do it and believe in it. We know we've won in that building before. We'll try to bring it back to OKC. That's the plan. We'll see what happens. We've just got to play as hard as we can, leave it all out there and go from there.

 Q. What did you learn from Monday night? 
 KEVIN DURANT: Got to keep playing together. Just execute. They did a great job of defense. They made shots. To be honest, man, this is one of the only times I didn't know what to do at the end of the game. I didn't know why we lost. They made shots, of course, but I was catching the ball, I couldn't really see any lanes or any seams to get through. I felt like I was getting doubled, and I just didn't know what to do.

 Q. Is that more of a credit to what they were doing defensively or you guys sort of being out of sync offensively? 
 KEVIN DURANT: No, I mean, I think the spacing could have been a little better, but they did a good job. We've just got to make adjustments, man, like I've been saying. I play to win. That's what I'm going to do tomorrow. 

 Q. What happened after James fouled out, 4:34 left? That's when the offensive trouble seemed to start. What happened on the court when he went out? 
 KEVIN DURANT: We missed shots, they made them. James is another one of our play makers and takes a lot of pressure off myself and Russell. Around this time of year, no matter how great me and Russell can score the basketball, it's kind of tough to try to go out there and do it like we've been doing it. It works sometimes, but they seen the changes and they really kind of threw everybody at us, no matter who had the ball. Russell was getting doubled on pick-and-rolls. I'd catch the ball where I wanted to and I'd see guy coming quick so I had to make the right pass, and I believe in Thabo and Serge and Nick that they can make shots, and they made some, they missed some. 

 Q. Do you blame the officiating at all? 
 KEVIN DURANT: They did a great job. The refs did a great job. I've got to be stronger, of course. That's a move I always do, but I should have tried to get it up to the rim and maybe they'd have called the foul. I thought the refs did a great job.

 Q. What does being down 3-1 feel like?
 KEVIN DURANT: Terrible. Terrible, especially going on the road. It's a bad feeling. But we've got faith. I've got faith. It was a tough pill to swallow last night. I didn't talk to nobody, my mom, my grandma. I usually have a good time with them, but it was tough. But I've got faith. I'm just going to lay it all on the line. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT