NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v MAVERICKS
May 18, 2011
Kevin Durant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How do you guys kind of weigh the dangers of the double-team in terms of making adjustments?   
 KEVIN DURANT: That's something you've got to watch and trust in the coaching staff that they're going to make the right adjustments for us on that. But it's also on the players because we're out there playing to see how -- we did it once and we got burned on a Jason Kidd three. They have a lot of shooting space around them. It's kind of like Orlando with Dwight. You have to shoot around him and let him work, and that's what they do with Dirk.   
  
  Q. How do you defend a pick-and-roll with J.J. Barea?   
 KEVIN DURANT: It's tough when you have a guy like Dirk. You don't want to leave him totally wide open. That's what Barea is really good at, finding the seams in the defense. It's something we've got to watch, but we haven't watched yet today. We've got to do something a little different in that area. Like I said, they have shooters around him, as well. If he's penetrating like that, he's tough to stop.  
  
  Q. To go through what Dirk did and J.J. did last night and Terry and know you could have cut it to three with two minutes left, is there some pride there?   
 KEVIN DURANT: Yeah. We fought. That's one thing you've got to say about us. We've got heart until the last buzzer, and that's what we did. We were down 14 with seven or eight minutes left, and we could have had it to three points. Hopefully we'll do a good job of containing those guys in Game 2.   
  
  Q. Coming in here there was calls to a radio station in Dallas talking about what is in his backpack. Does that crack you up how much attention that's gotten that you've decided to wear a backpack to press conferences?  
 KEVIN DURANT: Yes. I've always been doing that, though. They just kind of play to see what's in there. But I guess that's a part of me. I see a lot of people on Twitter hitting me, what's in the book bag, what's in the book bag?   
  
  Q. You could start your own backpack line.   
 KEVIN DURANT: Yes, of course.  
  
  Q. Are the contents a secret?   
 KEVIN DURANT: No, I told people what's in there. It's nothing special. It's just iPad and the Bible. It's not like I have something that anybody would want in there.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT