NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 18, 2011
Kevin Durant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You've been here, what makes it special?
 KEVIN DURANT: Just to be a starter in this game alongside these great players is an honor for me; to get voted in by the fans is a dream come true. I'm just taking it all in and enjoying it and relaxing a bit. It's a busy weekends but fun at the same time. 

 Q. What do you think of Kevin Garnett?
 KEVIN DURANT: One of my favorite players ever.

 Q. Spike Lee has changed him out, what do you think about KG as a player and what he brings on the court, because he's fiery out there. 
 KEVIN DURANT: That's what I love about him the most. He's always consistent. You could tell he's a vocal leader and he's a great teammate and he'll do anything for his guys. You know, that's the type of player that you like to see. So I'm sure that he's not a dirty player or whatever guys say, but he's just an unbelievable teammate and somebody I really admire. 

 Q. Can you put on your analyst hat for me, and when you look at Boston, Miami, who do you see coming out of the east, if you were an analyst, who would you pick?
 KEVIN DURANT: I'm glad I'm not an analyst. It's so tough. You can't just look at Miami and Boston. You have to look at Chicago, New York, teams that are playing well. 

 Q. Your favorite as a fan and as a player?
 KEVIN DURANT: My favorite as a fan was in 2001 back in my hometown, Washington, D.C., I remember watching Stephon Marbury and Allen Iverson bring the east back and win. Those guys, Iverson, he got the MVP I think and that was probably my best memory, because it was at home. 
 Being a part of, probably the sophomore game my second year in the league. Winning the MVP and playing with my teammates in that game, that was special. I've had a lot of fun so far.

 Q. Looking at this one, is that one you're going to be looking at specifically, this rookie sophomore challenge?
 KEVIN DURANT: I'm just excited for my two teammates who will be involved in the rookie game tonight. I'm excited for them. They worked so hard and they really deserve to be in there. It should be fun. 

 Q. Anyone going to beat your record of the 40-plus points?
 KEVIN DURANT: I'm sure somebody is. Hopefully it gets to last a couple more years but somebody will break it. There are a lot of great players coming into the league the next few years, so we'll see. Maybe somebody tonight might break it. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT