NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 15, 2008
Kevin Durant
Rudy Gay
Tom Thibodeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Can you make a brief comment talking about tonight's game? 
 KEVIN DURANT:  Tonight's game was very fun.  That was my first one, hopefully the start of many more.  Guys like Rudy made it fun and entertaining for the fans. 
 RUDY GAY:  Well, I think that was just fun to get out here and interact with the guys, kind of like what he said.  You know, just come out here and, you know, play with some of the guys that you were growing up with.  Got a chance to know going the circuit.  So it was fun, especially to go at him, teach him a couple of things. 
 TOM THIBODEAU:  I thought it was a well-played game.  I was obviously very pleased with the fact that I thought we shared the ball extremely well.  Hit the open man.  Made the extra pass, and then they started to search out the hot hand, and obviously, Daniel was extremely hot.  I think the fact that we shot the three so well was a big factor in the game, obviously, 17 for 32. 

 Q.  Most years it seems that the rookies really take a beating in this game.  Why do you think that is the rookies tend to lose? 
 KEVIN DURANT:  I wish I could tell you, then we would have won the game.  But I don't know.  This is a time when you just have fun, enjoy everybody's company and play hard.  You know, play together. 
 It always helps the sophomore team when a guy hits 11 threes.  That's hard to guard.  But I think everybody had fun. 
 RUDY GAY:  Even if he would have hit five, we still would have won. 
 I think being in this situation last year, we're all here, and we kind of took it for granted and the sophomores took it to us.  So I think it was our chance to go at them with them not knowing exactly the situation that's going on? 

 Q.  You and Gibson go back, did it seem like he was going to miss at all? 
 KEVIN DURANT:  You know, once he gets in the zone, once he hits two or three, he gets it going.  He hit 11 tonight.  I'm very happy for him.  He went from a second round pick to an MVP in the rookie-sophomore game.  So I'm very happy.  It's good to see a guy from Texas play well in this game.  So I'm very happy. 

 Q.  Next year you'll qualify to play for the sophomores, do you think you'll play in that game or the Sunday game? 
 KEVIN DURANT:  I don't know.  We'll see.  Hopefully, I'm fortunate to play in both.  I'm going to work hard.  Hopefully, I'll work hard this summer and come in here next year.  We'll see.  But if I play on the sophomore team, I know we're going to win. 

 Q.  How special is it to start in the rookie game with a teammate?  That doesn't happen very often.  Talk about you you and Jeff going through this together. 
 KEVIN DURANT:  Well, me and Jeff have been through a lot.  We knew each other before we got to college, before we got to the NBA, so to go through this together was very fun.  Being on the same team, we went through some ups and downs this year.  So to come in here and start on the rookie team is a blessing.  So I'm happy, we had fun. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT