NBA DRAFT
June 28, 2007
Kevin Durant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  When you walked past the television, you saw the trade with Ray; what are your thoughts on that deal?   
 KEVIN DURANT:  Ray Allen is a great player, and it would have been fun learning from him, but Delonte West and Szczerbiak are not bad at all, great players and looking forward to playing with them.  Jeff is from D.C. so it's going to be an easy transition knowing those two guys.  So I can't wait.    
  
  Q.  You said yesterday that you didn't have to save the franchise because Ray was going to be there.   
 KEVIN DURANT:  Knew you was going to say that.  (Laughter).   
  
  Q.  Are you the savior now?   
 KEVIN DURANT:  Not at all.  Not at all.  When you play since you were eight or nine years old, you know the game is not a one-man sport.  I'm far from being a savior.  I'm just trying to contribute to the team as much as I can and I can't wait to be a SuperSonic.   
  
  Q.  How well do you know Jeff, being from the area, and also, with Ray gone, do you really stop lobbying Rashard now to stick around?   
 KEVIN DURANT:  I know Jeff pretty well, on a D.C. Blue Devils team and we gained a friendship from there.  He's a great player and I can't wait to play with him.   
 Now that Ray is gone, and I think Rashard is a free agent -- I'd love to get him back, he's a great player and one of my idols as well and now he's my teammate -- well, I hope he's my teammate.  If he's there, it's going to be a plus.   
  
  Q.  Greg joked before that you guys are constantly going to be linked in the future; every time his name is mentioned, yours is.  Do you feel that is something that's going to contribute throughout your NBA career with him?   
 KEVIN DURANT:  I know we are going to be linked for a long time.  We are 1 and 2.  We were 1 and 2 in high school.  We were both in the northwest.   
 I don't see me and him as player rivalries; our teams could be rivalries, but we play two different positions.  It's been great getting to know Greg as a friend and gaining a new friendship.   
  
  Q.  When David Stern walked up to announce the No. 1 pick, was there a moment with your fingers crossed and maybe your name might slip out of his mouth?   
 KEVIN DURANT:  I didn't know what was going on.  I didn't know who he was going to pick.  I held my mother's hand and we both looked at each other in the eye and when he said Greg, I figured where I was going to be going next.   
 I'm happy for Greg.  I went and gave his mom a hug and a kiss and congratulated their family.  It's going to be fun playing against him.   
  
  Q.  Does the link between you and Greg remind you of any other players in NBA history?  And also, when did you know that you were going to Seattle?   
 KEVIN DURANT:  I wouldn't say we remind of anybody else in the history of the NBA.  I think we are two different players and different from any other players that's been drafted 1 and 2.   
 Once I heard his name and No. 1, I had a little idea where I was going to go, maybe Seattle, maybe Atlanta.  But once they called my name, I shed a few tears and my mom shed some tears and my brother was happy for me and my godfather and I can't wait to see them out there after dealing with all of you guys.   
  
  Q.  You mentioned Jeff, Rashard Lewis and yourself, all small forwards; what do you think you'll be playing most with the Sonics?   
 KEVIN DURANT:  We're not small forwards.  All three of us can do a lot on the floor.  Jeff can play the 5, the 4, the 3; Rashard Lewis can do just about anything on the floor and I try to do just about anything on the floor.  We all complement each other very well.  It's going to be fun learning from the two guys and I can't wait.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT