NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS vs WARRIORS
June 2, 2018
Kevin Durant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I was wondering if you could just reflect on a former teammate of yours, Jeff Green, his journey to this point.  You guys share the unique distinction of being the last two active Sonics.  Also, you've dedicated, I think, a season to him when he was going through his heart surgery some years ago?  
KEVIN DURANT: Oh, yeah, it's deeper than basketball, me and Jeff.  Of course I'm happy to be playing against him, excited to be competing against him.  I can remember summers for years that we worked out every day together.   
So the basketball part is pretty cool.  But to kind of grow in this league with him a little bit our first few years to now see where he is -- family, kids, married -- it just shows how much time has passed.   
It's deeper than basketball with us.  I'm just enjoying this time we get to play on the court together and really appreciate the moments we had together as teammates as well.   
 Q.  Draymond Green talked the other night just about a few lucky breaks maybe.  He said that sometimes you're going to get a little luck.  Do you agree with that, that sometimes that's going to play into it?  Also, you referenced boxing out and some of the things that you think you guys need to do better in Game 2.  What are some of those things?  
KEVIN DURANT: Yeah, if we focused in on it and what we need to do is try to lock in on the details as much as possible, that's just with any game.  But as you try to lock in on the details as much as possible, that luck factor -- good luck, bad luck -- you don't have it creep in if you figure out the detail parts.  To be good at those parts of the game, then you don't let the luck creep in.   
So we try to do our best to avoid that part.  That's my plan -- focus and be better from start.  It starts with the small things -- rebounding, loose balls, just talking on defense, moving on offense, that type of stuff.  I think you can ask any player in the league, and they'll tell you the same thing when it comes to that type of stuff.   
 Q.  After two full years here and all you guys have accomplished, are there still some times on the court when you're trying to figure out if it's the time for you to sort of take over or a time to defer and share more with teammates?  
KEVIN DURANT: I think it's definitely gotten better since last season.  That's on me to kind of know the flow of the game.  I think I've done a solid job of that throughout this season and throughout the playoffs.  I had some games where I struggled a bit, and that's just a part of it.  But just kind of feeling the game, how each game might be different, and I think that goes into focus.   
So if I come into the game knowing and being prepared for anything, then I can conquer it.  But that goes back to just being locked in to start.   
 Q.  Watching the film of Game 1, were you happy with the looks you got?  Was it just a matter of shots not going in, or what was it, you think?  
KEVIN DURANT: I didn't take smart shots.  I took risky looks.  I took some shots that I know I can hit, but I'd rather get better shots than that.   
I'm not worried about my makes or misses.  It's just more so am I getting good, quality shots?  After that, the rest will figure itself out.  But I'm glad I was able to contribute and do other stuff as well when my shot wasn't falling and help us get the W.   
 Q.  Being around Klay Thompson, do you think he'll be able to go tomorrow, seeing how bad that injury looked and how he's looking today?  
KEVIN DURANT: I haven't really talked to him about it.  Seen him today, but just so focused on practice.  But I'm sure, just knowing Klay, he'll be all right.   
 Q.  Rodney Hood did not impact Game 1 really, but what influence can he have on the rest of the series if he's put back in the rotation?  Just generally what type of a player is he?  
KEVIN DURANT: Rodney Hood is a lefty that can pretty much score the basketball really well.  I know he hasn't played for a while, but somebody that's always simmering on the bench, just waiting for his opportunity.  So if he gets a chance, you know he's going to take full advantage of it.  We've got to be prepared if he steps on the court.   
 Q.  There was a moment from the Houston series that's kind of gone viral a little bit of Coach Kerr telling you about an anecdote from the Bulls.  There's been some negative reaction to it.  What's been your reaction to that negative reaction?  Did it get under your skin at all?  
KEVIN DURANT: No, I really enjoyed that conversation.  Just having somebody that was that close to the legend Michael Jordan tell me and feel confident that I guess we were in similar positions at the moment made me feel good about myself -- that he can relate that moment to Michael Jordan (smiling).   
I always enjoy those stories, from Coach Kerr, from Mike Brown, from guys that have been in the league so long, to share those experiences with the greats and the guys that kind of did it before me.  I really, really appreciated that moment.   
I needed it as well.  It was good to kind of get a reminder from guys that are successful in the league, whether it's now or back in the past especially, that can give you some advice here and there when you need it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT