NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: WARRIORS vs ROCKETS
May 23, 2018
Kevin Durant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You guys were up by 12 early in the fourth.  Did you think that was possible for them to outscore you 25-10?  That doesn't happen to you guys very often?  
KEVIN DURANT: No, that was a -- they played well in the fourth.  We didn't shoot the ball so well on the offensive side of the ball and defensively they made some tough shots over us.  But they had momentum after they cut the lead from 12 to 5, so they kept going after that.  We've just got to be better.  We've got to be better in those situations, and I'm confident we will.   
 Q.  Do you feel like yesterday was a missed opportunity for you all?  
KEVIN DURANT: Yeah, most definitely.  We had the opportunity to go up 3-1, definitely a missed opportunity but we have another opportunity tomorrow to kind of turn the series back, so it's an exciting time for us to see what that's about, you know, so we're looking forward to playing tomorrow.   
 Q.  Are you a little surprised that Draymond was named to the [NBA All-Defensive Second Team]?  
KEVIN DURANT: Not surprised that he's on the team.  A great defender, somebody that covers up a lot for us on the defensive side of the ball.  Takes pride in playing defense.  So he deserves all those honors.   
 Q.  But I mean the second as opposed to -- since he was Defensive Player of the Year last year?  
KEVIN DURANT: Yeah, I guess they get tired of seeing Draymond up there.   
 Q.  What about your exclusion on it?  
KEVIN DURANT: It's all good.  I wasn't expecting it.   
 Q.  We don't know what Andre's situation going to be going into Game 5.  But if he's limited or doesn't play, and this is the rotation you've got, how do you maximize that six-and-a-half, seven-player rotation against this team?  
KEVIN DURANT: Just got to figure it out.  They're playing seven guys too, so just try to match up well, keep playing with energy and force on the defensive side of the ball.  Offensively we need to be way better.  But just play no matter where we're playing at, no matter what the circumstance is, we just have to go out there and play extremely hard, fast, and play well.  We'll be in good position.   
 Q.  How long does it take you to get over a game?  
KEVIN DURANT: Oh, you try to get over it fast, but it's impossible, especially at this time of the year.  So we'll watch -- after you watch the film and practice, you kind of try to move on and get ready for the next one.   
 Q.  Some of the guys were pissed off after last night.  Does being pissed off help?  Does that give you anything when you play that way?  
KEVIN DURANT: Yeah, if you use it in the right direction.  If you want to correct the mistakes and play a little bit more aggressive and angry, but smart at the same time, you can channel it in the right direction.  We know that this team is tough to beat, especially at home.  So we're looking forward to going out here to see if we can get it done.  I'm confident that we can go out there and play well.   
 Q.  How important is your catch zone where you catch the ball?  If it's 20 feet out, it's 15?  
KEVIN DURANT: Yeah, felt like last night we caught the ball at the three-point line.  So we just want to put us in good positions to score and get everybody involved.  So for me, especially, I've got to do a better job of catching the ball closer.   
 Q.  When you looked at the film, what did you guys think you needed to do better offensively?  
KEVIN DURANT: Just move more.  Move with more pace.  Just make strong moves to the rim and not turn the ball over. Sixteen turnovers is still a lot against this team.  We've got to be strong with the basketball and be forceful when we get it.   
 Q.  How much do you embrace the challenge and excitement of this level of the playoffs, being tied 2-2 and all the excitement that comes with it?  
KEVIN DURANT: It's an amazing time, especially for basketball players, fans around the country, around the world.  But as a player, you accept the mistakes that you made and try to move on from them.  If you play well, you just try to build off of it.  So it's pretty simple.  Especially for us right now after a tough loss, want to see how we can get better from what we did last game and try to get a W.   
 Q.  On that note, Draymond was saying when you guys are in pressure situations, that brings the best out of you.  What do you notice what you guys do better in those kind of things, and how does that apply tomorrow?  
KEVIN DURANT: I just think after we hit some adversity, we try to look back and see how we can get better and focus in on that as much as we can, and play a smarter game.  If you come out there and do that, we'll put ourselves in a good position.  So it's just the fact that when we take a loss, we look at the tape and see areas where we can get better and improve on it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT