NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: WARRIORS vs ROCKETS
May 16, 2018
Kevin Durant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Rockets - 127, Warriors - 105
Q. Was that another first-quarter game for you guys where the turnovers set the tone for the rest of the night?
KEVIN DURANT: Yeah, we were down five at the end of the first.  But in the second quarter that's when they pulled away.  We gave up some open looks and turned the ball over a couple times and they made some shots in that second quarter.  It wasn't because they were lucky shots.  But they were getting some good looks in the corner.  P.J. Tucker got a dunk.  Trevor Ariza got a layup.  We can't have that type of stuff.
We've got to correct it, because this is an every-possession game.  We've got to be locked in every possession against these guys.
Q. How much of the defensive breakdowns was maybe communication problems, and how much was just mental lapses?
KEVIN DURANT: Throughout the game you're going to have some communication problems.  That's just the nature of the game.  You're going to have some mental lapses as well.  But the team that has the (indiscernible) wins the game.
We put together four or five good possessions in a row; the sixth, seventh, eighth one can't be the ones where we have lapses or bad communication.  So we've got to try to pile on as many good possessions as possible.
Q. On the early turnovers:
KEVIN DURANT: I started the game off with a turnover.  I got that and a foul, so I got Trevor Ariza going and their crowd going.  I take full responsibility for the start of the game.  After that, it was just contagious.  My teammates kind of followed my lead.  I can't start the game off like that.
Q. Mike D'Antoni said that obviously you're scoring a lot, but their strategy is to put their best defensive guy on you.  Do you feel that that he's kind of putting the focus on you and guarding you man-to-man and not letting you get assists?
KEVIN DURANT: They switch everything anyway.  So it's going to be hard for us to really just get the ball hopping and flowing like we usually do.  But we've got to continue to keep moving.  When I get the ball, I feel like I can just be aggressive to do something.  I don't want to be standing around and pass on the perimeter.  I just want to be aggressive when we get the ball, and maybe something might come.  If not, I'll just try to shoot my shot.
Q. It always seems like there is a different theme in a playoff series from game to game.  What was different from them besides kind of spreading the ball over?
KEVIN DURANT: They were really good at swiping at the ball to get steals.  P.J. Tucker and Trevor Ariza, they took advantage of their opportunities tonight and knocked down shots.  You've got to give them credit for that.  Eric Gordon came in and hit big threes to start the game and settled them down a little bit.  And you know what CP's going to do.
I just think they were a little more settled tonight.  They hit timely shots.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT