NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: WARRIORS VS SPURS
May 18, 2017
Kevin Durant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  The All-NBA Team came out and you and Steph are on the Second Team and Draymond's on the Third Team.  Do you still care at all about that?  
KEVIN DURANT: Yes.   
 Q.  What are your feelings about the Teams?  
KEVIN DURANT: No feelings, you know.  They pick who they pick.  I'm glad to be a part of it.  You've just got to know what your worth is as a player, no matter what.  But I'm definitely grateful.  It's something you dream a about as a kid to be among the best.   
 Q.  What kind of improvements and adjustments have you guys made for the game coming up?  
KEVIN DURANT: That's kind of confidential.  Just play harder.  Just starting the game with some energy, especially on the road.  Playing physical.  That type of stuff.  Stuff that you've got to do day-in and day-out as a basketball player.  I think you've got to ramp it up to another level.  We'll see what happens.  It's going to be a great atmosphere down in San Antonio, and I can't wait to play.   
 Q.  What do you need to do to rebound better and keep them off the offensive glass?  
KEVIN DURANT: Just got to rebound better.  Get our hands on the basketball, box out, get back to the basics.   
 Q.  When you hear Second Team for yourself and Steph, and Draymond Third Team, is your reaction disappointment, upset or oh, that's cool?  
KEVIN DURANT: You can't put everybody on the First Team.  So many guys had some great numbers, and that's what you look at nowadays.  You can't be upset about it.  Obviously, you can strive to be on the First Team.  That's everybody's goal.  It's not like guys are satisfied.  To be honest, I don't really think it matters that much to Steph and Draymond.  But I feel like when you see your name on that list amongst the top 15 players in the league, that's pretty special.  Everybody strives to be First Team and top five players in the league.   
 Q.  Do you think an argument could have been made for guys like you and Steph where the numbers shouldn't be so heavily relied on?  
KEVIN DURANT: No, they got it right, I guess, if you're looking at it.  I mean, I don't even know what the criteria is nowadays.  But they got it right.  You know what I'm saying?  They got somebody who has a triple-double.  It's hard to keep him off, especially nowadays with whoever -- who votes on that?  I thought the coaches voted on that, or is it media?   
 Q.  Media.  
KEVIN DURANT: So does it come out who votes for who?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
KEVIN DURANT: So if one of you leaves somebody off that averaged that many points you're going to get killed on Twitter, right?  Yeah, it's a lot of pressure.  It's hard to come up with those teams, man.  So many great players, so many players had great seasons.  It's kind of hard to put guys on the First, Second, Third Team when so many guys played well this year.   
Just grateful to be part of the list.  Obviously, I feel like I should be a First Team player, but it is what it is.  Just keep working.  Keep getting better.  Keep building the foundation I set 10 years ago.  So it is what it is.   
 Q.  Should the awards be voted on after the playoffs?  
KEVIN DURANT: The awards show?   
 Q.  I'm just saying people vote?  
KEVIN DURANT: No, it's a regular-season award.  I feel as though you put your work in for 82 games, and that's what you should be judged on.  That's what the MVP is about.  I think the playoffs, championship, that stuff is a team accomplishment.  So I feel as though it should be about the regular season.   
I also feel like the awards show takes away from that moment they usually have in the second round on their home floor among their fans.  I think that's something that they took away from the overall experience of winning that award.  But whoever wins it I'm sure is going to be excited about it.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)  
KEVIN DURANT: It should have been like it's always been.  I can remember growing up seeing Michael holding his MVP trophy up a couple minutes before the game started.  I got an opportunity to do so.  Steph, and a lot of other guys that won MVP.  You're taking away that moment that's for the home fans and for you as a person.  That whole day is just about MVP, Defensive Player of the Year, Most Improved.  Whereas in an awards show setting, you see the guys who are going to lose and you see the guys who are going to win, and you have 10 minutes to make a speech about it and we move on.  I think it deserves more time.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT