NBA PLAYOFFS ROUND ONE: CLIPPERS vs WARRIORS
April 24, 2019
Kevin Durant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Clippers - 129, Warriors - 121   
KEVIN DURANT: When we get a nice lead, we just tend to relax a little bit.  I said it before, teams are looking for something just to get them back into the game, you know what I'm saying?  If we foul a 3-point shooter or turn the rock over or we shoot a few bad shots in a row, teams get going, they'll build some confidence.   
Cuz they're already playing loose, with nothing to lose, those shots, they don't have no pressure from the start to the finish, especially as 8 seed.   
So they're coming out with some confidence already.  And we kind of kept the door open with our intensity to start the game.   
 Q.  Kevin, Klay the other day was talking about the Rockets.  Kevon touched on it.  Do you think you sort of overlooked Game 5, looking ahead to the Rockets at all?  
KEVIN DURANT: I haven't talked to my teammates about the Rockets.  So I don't know.  I know I'm not thinking about the future.  Just thinking about the game.  And I feel like everybody has their mindset.  But I can't tell you for sure what they're thinking.   
 Q.  Lou Williams, in particular, you guys bottle him up in L.A.; he kind of got going today.  What do you think was it about his game that got going tonight?  
KEVIN DURANT: You just can't -- you can't just say I'm going to stop Lou Williams tonight.  You just have to hope you're locked in enough to stop him or things go well.  He got loose tonight.   
I think we put him on the free-throw line, got him going a bit He's.  Knocking fall-away jump shots and got in spots making passes.   
He's so crafty.  If you get close to him, you're definitely going to get a foul because he knows how to use his body.  He knows how to use his game.  Just one of those games where it's tough to stop.   
So he got it going tonight along with Montrezl.  When those two usually get it going, they usually win.  Then you got Gal 26.  He's their leading scorer, 22 shots.  Then Pat Bev, 17; 15 from JaMychal Green.  They got contributions from everybody tonight.   
 Q.  When you guys are not knocking down some of those shots and not getting the stops defensively, how difficult a combination when you can't get out and push the pace the way you guys want to in those situations?  
KEVIN DURANT: That's worst-case scenario for any team.  You missing shots and can't get stops.  You feel like you're in a bottomless pit.  So hopefully we knocked down shots and get stops the next game.   
 Q.  Similar defensive question, what was different in the approach on Gallo tonight?  What was different in the approach on Gallo tonight compared to other games in this series?  
KEVIN DURANT: He's their leading scorer.  He's going to get loose.  He's going to get shots; he played 41 minutes.  He made some 3s tonight for sure.  I mean, 9-for-22, 3-for-11.  I mean, we've been taking his volume, high-volume shots all series and we've been doing a solid.  Job but we gave up 59 points off the bench to two guys -- I mean 57 and we've got a problem.   
So we kind of withstand a little bit of a punch in the first unit from somebody.  Might not be just Gallo.  The last game it was Shai Gilgeous, so we (indiscernible).  Coming off the bench we've got to be locked in on that pick-and-roll Lou Williams and Montrezl Harrell present.   
 Q.  Seems like you've been able to get in a rhythm these last couple of games, really three games.  How have you been able to sort of find your spots in the flow of the offense here?  
KEVIN DURANT: It's the work I put in when you guys aren't around.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT