NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 18, 2017
Kevin Durant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Yesterday was Michael Jordan's 54th birthday.  Favorite M.J. memory?  
KEVIN DURANT: It was 69 and 18, I think.  69 points and 18 rebounds. You can go down the list with M.J.  It's just incredible.  He changed the game.  He changed the culture in basketball. He's the best to ever do it.   
 Q.  What's your openness next summer to taking less than the max and maybe being able to keep some of the role players like Andre Iguodala and Shaun Livingston?  
KEVIN DURANT: We'll figure that out when the time comes.   
 Q.  Kevin, what's it been like the first half season at Golden State, being with these guys?  What's your assessment?  Perhaps your expectations?  
KEVIN DURANT: It's been fun.  It's been a great season.  We're winning games.  Chemistry is good.  City is nice.  Coaches are cool. It's pretty simple.   
 Q.  Tell us, we're from Toronto, what can you tell us about Serge Ibaka?  
KEVIN DURANT: He's a great player who's hungry to win and excited to be in Toronto.  I talked to Serge.  He can't wait to go play with DeMar [DeRozan] and Kyle [Lowry], and coach Rex [Kalamian] again. The city is amazing.  They're getting a shot blocker who can score.   
 Q.  What kind of teammate is he in the locker room with the guys?  
KEVIN DURANT: He's a great teammate.  He's fiery.  He's fierce.  He loves to play.   
 Q.  Does it surprise you that this is DeAndre Jordan's first All-Star game?  
KEVIN DURANT: Yeah, but every year someone is left off. I feel like he's been snubbed a few times.  To finally get a chance to be here, considering who he is to the game, we're all just excited for him.   
 Q.  How do you want to play tomorrow?  
KEVIN DURANT: How do I want to play?  The way I always play.  Having fun, free flowing, shoot threes, dunking.   
 Q.  What are you excited about?  
KEVIN DURANT: Just playing.  Playing in front of the fans, and giving them a good opportunity to watch all the best players in the league up close.  For the most part, we get the best players in the world on that court, and I'm just excited.   
 Q.  What can you say for your fans in Japan?  
KEVIN DURANT: Those of you in Japan, wishing you the best.  Appreciate all the love and support.  Keep watching the game.   
 Q.  There's a lot of young talent in the league right now.  Five years from now, who do you think is going to be the best player in the league?  
KEVIN DURANT: I don't really do that.  I don't rank them.  All these kids are different.   
 Q.  You guys have four All-Stars in the game this year.  Besides yourself, which one deserves (inaudible)?  
KEVIN DURANT: All of us.  We're all different and unique and bring things to the table that confuses the defense.  We bring pressure to the defense.  We all do it together.  We play everybody else in this room, we've loved this game our whole lives.   
 Q.  I know you haven't lived in the Bay Area that long.  Do you have a particular area, maybe a neighborhood in San Francisco, where you've kind of gravitated to a bit, that you've kind of enjoyed?  Areas up north or whatever.  You don't have much free time, I know.  
KEVIN DURANT: Yeah, I'm usually at home.  Or if I do go into the city, I'm all around San Francisco and the Bay Area, different restaurants, different places to go.  So I wouldn't say one area.  But I'm sure when the summertime comes, I'll find an area that I really like hanging around.  For now it's just in and out, quick trips.   
 Q.  Did you do anything special to prepare for New Orleans?  
KEVIN DURANT: Nothing special.  Relaxing, not worrying about anything, just having fun.   
 Q.  Ever since you've been an All-Star, there's always been an older guy.  Is it unusual to not have any of these guys here?  
KEVIN DURANT: Yeah, it is.  Marc [Gasol] is the oldest guy. It's pretty weird to be the veterans now.  We were the young guys a few years ago.  That's just the way the league is going. Teams are drafting two 18-year-olds every year. The league is getting younger and we are the ones who are going to be passing the torch.   
 Q.  Kevin, you started your career with Russell.  How have you seen the perception of Russell change from when he started to where he is now?  
KEVIN DURANT: I don't know.  I haven't really thought about that.  They love how he's playing, and everyone respects his game.  That's all you really want.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT