GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 26, 2016
Kevin Durant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Is this still strange to you today?  
KEVIN DURANT: I wouldn't say strange.  It's new, fresh, and I'm looking forward to it.  I just got super excited as I was walking in here.  Just to play here and play for this great organization and play with these players, I'm excited.   
 Q.  How familiar are you with the area?  How much of that was part of your reason for coming here, beyond basketball?  
KEVIN DURANT: I don't know much about the area, but I think that's one of the cool things about it, just being able to explore all parts of the Bay Area.  And I wouldn't say it played a huge part of why I came here, I think most of the people, the players, the organization is the reason I chose to come.   
 Q.  The scope of today's media day, what's your impressions of that?  How does this compare to media day in Oklahoma City, and what does this tell you about what you've gotten into here?  
KEVIN DURANT: It's about the same, to be honest.  Doing the same things, and the same coverage.  Like I said, I'm excited to be here, excited to move forward and to be the best basketball player I can be.   
 Q.  Two parter, back in 2010 LeBron had some backlash towards him, and you had a little bit this summer.  Do you regret some of the comments you made pointed toward him now that you've gone through it.  And the second part, playing in the Olympics basically you had to win it all.  So do you think that prepares you for playing for the Warriors this year?  
KEVIN DURANT: First part of your question, six years ago, I mean, that was six years ago.  Everybody changes in six years, you know, it's just part of growth.  Opinions change.  Experiences change.  So I don't regret what I said.  I'm not going to change what I said.  But I am here now.  And it was a long time ago.   
But for the most part, in the Olympics, the pressure is on you to win it.  But when you're around good people, when you're around a group of guys that don't worry about their outside, it makes everything easier.   
 Q.  Here in Oakland how much did the Warriors sales pitch to you go into your decision making, and if they had won the title -- I know one of their things was we need you to win the title.  Had they won the title, do you think you'd be here?  
KEVIN DURANT: They didn't, so I don't even want to talk about it.  But the sales pitch was great.  I wouldn't even call it a sales pitch.  They came in the room and they were open and honest about where they were.  And it drew me towards them and they know who I am.   
 Q.  Similar question, those sales pitches seems it's coming due for a guy like you.  How important are they?  Don't you have a sense what these teams are about, how badly they want you and how much money they're willing to give you?  Does it matter that they come to your door, basically?  
KEVIN DURANT: It really matters.  You want to know what they're about.  I'm at the point in my life now I can kind of figure out what they're about.  And what they stand for, just by talking with them, and sitting down and talking with Bob and the rest of the guys, for a couple of hours, showed me all I need to know.   
 Q.  I'm wondering how big a move was this for Nike and does this really help them that you're in a big market like the Bay Area?  
KEVIN DURANT: As you said, Nike, it didn't matter where I played.  They didn't care where I played basketball, they support me.  We have a great partnership.  I didn't let them know until I did it, there wasn't any movement, they just supported me no matter what.   
 Q.  The reaction you got after you made your decision, do you have kind of a chip on your shoulder, a little more emotion about the way you're going to approach this season?  
KEVIN DURANT: I wouldn't say emotion.  I always play with passion.  But my thing is just playing for myself.  I don't want to go out there and play upset with everybody else.  I want to play my game, and enjoy the game of basketball like I've always been enjoying it, and everything else will work itself out.   
 Q.  It can be difficult for anyone coming into a new work environment working with different people.  Did playing and hanging out with Klay and Draymond in Brazil ease your way into this?  Did you learn anything about them as teammates?  
KEVIN DURANT: Yeah, it is totally different than being in the NBA environment.  But I'm looking forward to learning more and more about all of my teammates and seeing where I can help and about one of the guys that they can lean on.  It was all about leaving my imprint on the team.  And I've learned different ways to approach that and do that.  But being around Klay and Daymond was pretty cool.  It made coming into here pretty easy.   
 Q.  First of all, I want to ask you the meaning and the motivation behind your Tupac and Rick James tattoo.  And also your thought on what's happening with Colin Kaepernick and his message?  
KEVIN DURANT: I know people look at me by having two men on my back, but they're people who inspired me.  And I just did it one day, spontaneously I got two tattoos.   
But as far as Colin Kaepernick, you know, I'm starting a conversation about the in justice was the whole goal in the first place.  It was not about how he was going to give the message, it was what he was trying to get out.  The change that needs to happen in our country.  And I think just having that conversation is great.  It's great for our country.  It's great for everyone to know what's going on.  So I'm very proud of him.   
 Q.  Obviously it's been a pretty crazy couple of months for you, ever since July when you made the decision to go to the Olympics.  Is it nice you can get in the gym now and get started with this and moving forward to actually doing this?  
KEVIN DURANT: Yeah, that's what it all comes down to, the game, that's the most important part.  To get on the court and get acquainted with my teammates and the coaching staff, I'm looking forward to that more than anything.   
 Q.  How has your life settled in now, that you had the Olympics.  How has it settled in now two or three months later?  
KEVIN DURANT: I've just become more and more realistic as each day goes by.  And now I have my jersey on and media day, and seeing all my teammates, it's real.  And I'm excited, man.  It's been a fun, fun summer, different summer than I've ever experienced.  But for the most part it was great to go through.  So I'm excited.  I'm ready to go.  I'm ready to play.  And I'm just anxious to play.   
 Q.  You don't know exactly what you're walking into in terms of this team.  But do you anticipate your game will change now that you're in a different place?  
KEVIN DURANT: Life will change just because I'm in a different city.  I think that's probably the only thing.  My game?  We'll see.  I'm relying on coach to put me in good positions to help the team be successful.  So that's the most important thing for me.  I'm going to be who I am, and approach the game like I've always done it.  Nothing's changed on my end, except for my jersey.   
 Q.  Like in baseball, if you could come out to a theme song by Rick James or Tupac, what would those songs be and why?  No. 2, how much are you looking forward to the Bay Area whether, especially the winters, in comparison to Oklahoma City?  
KEVIN DURANT: Tupac song, Keep Your Head Up, would probably be one I would come out to.  Mary Jane will probably be the one I would come out to to Rick James.   
Bay Area living?  I'm looking forward to.  I'm looking forward to being in this community and doing what I can in this community.  That's what I'm looking forward to the most.  But the weather, I can adjust to that.   
 Q.  What can you learn about from Steph Curry?  
KEVIN DURANT: I can learn from just about anybody.  But just his approach and how he approaches his craft.  I think that's the only thing I tend to watch more than anything from anybody.  And he works extremely hard.  And I know he's going to push me to be the best that I can be.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT