USA BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
June 27, 2016
Kevin Durant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q. How does this Olympics compare to the ones you've been in before? 
KEVIN DURANT: I don't really do comparisons, man. It's hard, it's hard. Different players, different teams. Just appreciate those teams for what they've done. So we're not trying to be 2012 or '08 or the Dream Team or any team between that. We're just trying to be us and come back with the gold. 

Q. The expectation in Rio is for the USA to bring back gold. What is your personal expectation for Rio? 
KEVIN DURANT: To bring back gold, anything less than that, we don't want it. Our mentality has always been like that. So we still have to put the work in. We can't go over there and expect to win. We have to put the work in and everybody is excited for it. 

Q. Are you going to have a contract by Rio? 
KEVIN DURANT: I'm sure I will. 

Q. There have been teams out there in terms of reports that you scheduled meetings with them already. Can you talk about that, why those teams? 
KEVIN DURANT: No, I can't. I'm not talking about it right now. This is USA Basketball. I want to take my focus off of that or it will be a distraction. When I know, you guys will know what I'll do. 

Q. Without being specific about which teams, what is your primary goal in terms of when you do sign the contract, what is the biggest thing that's going to be on your mind? Is it security, the roster? 
KEVIN DURANT: I'm not going to go into depth, like I said. I don't think this is the right time to do it. But I'll factor in everything that's important to me, which is playing basketball at the end of the day. And we'll see what happens. 

Q. With the addition of a guy like Derrick Rose, does that make that a little more appealing heading into free agents? 
KEVIN DURANT: Derrick Rose is a great player. He's definitely MVP of this league. Someone that we all respect in this league. So I'm sure he's excited about going to New York City and a new chapter of his life. So as a fan of the game, we're excited to see him go there and see how he does. 

Q. When you look at the Knicks now with Porzingis and Carmelo and Rose, as a free agent, does that make it more appealing to come to New York? 
KEVIN DURANT: I haven't really thought about that part. Obviously they have a good team now with D. Rose and Melo, Porzingis, so, like I said, I'm gonna talk to my team and we'll figure things out. But right now, it's kind of hard to say. 

Q. So, I have to ask, can you say whether you're going to meet with the Knicks or whether you want to meet with the Knicks? Is that something you're doing? 
KEVIN DURANT: No, we'll see after I leave here. Like I said, I'll talk to my people and figure that stuff out. But it's three days away, man, so we'll see what happens, man. That's all I can say at this point. 

Q. Has Melo been in your ear a little bit? 
KEVIN DURANT: Melo's my friend. Melo's been my friend since I was in high school, so we talk about everything, man. That's like my big brother right there. So, I mean, the best thing about all of this, none of these guys here have ever been putting any type of pressure on me. It's been cool. 

Q. What do you think are the strong parts of the Olympic team as comprised? 
KEVIN DURANT: Just different skill sets that we have on one team. Just the different skill sets that we have and how they come together uniquely. You know, we've got shooters. We've got guys that can do the dirty work. We've got scorers. We've got great passers. So I'm kind of anxious to see how coach puts it all together. I'm sure it's going to be a lot of fun. It's a great experience, and I'm looking forward to it all. 

Q. What did you think of the transfer of Oladipo (No Microphone)? 
KEVIN DURANT: It's a good move, man. I like Oladipo, he's one of my good buddies, a good friend of mine. Definitely going to miss playing with Serge. He contributed so much to our organization and to the city. Just what he's done for us, he's always going to be remembered in OKC what he's done for the community and his hard work on the court. So we wish him the best. 

Q. I thought I'd seen something about you having a trip to‑‑ I thought I had seen about the 9th being kind of a deadline in your mind. Is that accurate? Did you have your decision made before you go up? 
KEVIN DURANT: Who knows. I don't really plan stuff. So just a spontaneous guy. I go off of what I feel. I don't really think about it. I just go off of it. 

Q. How much are you looking forward to doing this again? You had such a great tournament a couple years ago. In 2010 you had a hell of a tournament too. Such a natural at this level, it seems like. 
KEVIN DURANT: When you're playing with the best players in the world, it makes it easy. Just going out there and playing my game. They take all the pressure off of me. I just try to be aggressive and stick to what I do. Hopefully it helps the team. The last two times it's helped, so I've just got to stick to what I do. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT