NBA PLAYOFFS ROUND ONE: CLIPPERS vs WARRIORS
April 21, 2019
Kevin Durant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Warriors - 113, Clippers - 105
Q. KD, like a decade ago you were part of a young up-and-coming team in OKC.  Now you're playing against a team playing a bunch of young guys.  How important are those early playoff experiences for them?  How important will they be and how important were they for you?
KEVIN DURANT: Man, a decade ago is a long time ago, man.  I walked in this building and played my first playoff series against a 1 seed, I think.  We were an 8 seed that year.  Throughout the series, it was a rough one for me individually.  We took them to six.  We were champions, but it was revealing.  You just learn how to play.  You learn what focus and preparation is at this level, especially in Playoffs, playing a team over and over again.  So that work going into the summer was different, so I'm sure it's going to be the same for these young guys.
Q. Piggy-backing off that last question, can you talk about what you saw from the Clippers' young guys today?
KEVIN DURANT: Well, I seen Shai come out and wanted to impose his will in the game early.  25 points, he got them going to start the game.  He had 14 in the first quarter, I think, and knocking down a three, getting to the rim, putting pressure on our defense, he played with no fear tonight, and that's what kept them in the game most of the game.
Q. With a 3-1 advantage, how has your team intensified, and going back home, knowing that you can close it out?
KEVIN DURANT: Well, we've got a couple days in between, so guys just focusing on this off day and mentally and physically just kind of getting their minds and bodies right for Game 5.  We come out there relaxed and prepared and focused to play 48 minutes of solid basketball.  I think that's just been our mindset.
Q. Today you had six assists and you had three straight to Klay Thompson.  Can you talk about your play making tonight and how you were on the floor?
KEVIN DURANT: Yeah, I mean, Coach called my number in the fourth to handle the ball, and that all means just score.  If I see an opportunity to get a bucket, try to take advantage.  But Klay had it going.  He had a mismatch.  Especially when the ball is in my hands a lot, I know it'll come around, so just tried to get everybody else going and get our energy going from just touching the basketball.  I think that provides energy when everybody touches the ball, and we got some stops around the rim.
Q. You guys were up 10 at the end of the first quarter, Clips make a run at the end, and right before the half you hit that four-point play.  How important was that to double that lead going into the break?
KEVIN DURANT: I mean, any shots you can make going into halftime, whether it's a lay-up or a four-point play, I think that's good momentum.  Basketball is all about momentum and flow, and they had it after cutting the lead, and they'd have been up four going into the half, and then they came out the third quarter with even a bigger punch.  Even though it was just four points, it was good at that time for us to get a little bit more separation knowing that they had some momentum going into the half.
Q. When the Clippers took the lead, the five-point lead, what kind of adjustments did you make to really capture that momentum?
KEVIN DURANT: Well, you've just got to correct the defensive lapses because when we locked in on defense, we're making guys shoot over us, we're a pretty tough team.  That stretch they were getting some wide open threes, but we were also turning the ball over, as well.  It's hard for us to set our defense up when we're turning the rock over or we're shooting bad shots, and I think we had a two- or three-minute spurt of that, and this team is just looking for a crack in the opening for us to kind of relax and lay down, just like Game 2.  But they don't stop, man.  They're one of those teams, they make you feel them all game, and even when you go home after the game you're going to be thinking about them because they're tough.
Q. Today Doc started JaMychal Green on you today and obviously before you had Pat Beverley in the games before.  Does your mentality of your game change or your approach change when you start the game?
KEVIN DURANT: Yeah, for sure.  JaMychal Green is obviously taller.  Where I initiate and where I operate from the floor has to change.  I can mix in playing the same way I played the previous game just a little, but to keep the defense off balance, not be predictable out there, I've got to use the full body of my offensive talents, whether it's coming off screens, pick-and-rolls, being a facilitator or scoring in the post, I've just got to be ready to dive deep in the back.
Q. What was the key for your defense.  You guys closed the game, I think you held them to two field goals over the last eight minutes.  In your mind what was the key to getting that done?
KEVIN DURANT: Well, when we focus in and keep the ball in front, make them shoot tough shots over us, then we're in solid shape.  I think we did a good job of the Lou Williams pick-and-roll, forcing him to his right side and making him shoot the pull-up jump shot instead of getting to the paint and drawing guys, and him and Montrezl having a nice two-man game, I think we kind of eliminated that a little bit with our pick-and-roll coverage, and guys were helping out on the backside, as well.  That's the game.  That's the game for us.  These guys can bust out and score a lot of points, especially with the shooters and the penetrators they have.  So we just tried to make them see bodies, make them see arms and hands and make them finish.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT