OKLAHOMA CITY THUNDER MEDIA CONFERENCE
June 1, 2016
Kevin Durant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Kevin, overall, just how would you describe this season with the Thunder?
KEVIN DURANT: It was a fun one.  It was a fun one.  It was exciting to be part of this group, fairly new group -- new coach, new coaching staff, new players.  I thought we did a great job of getting better each and every day, and me as a leader, I'm very proud to be part of such a group that fought for each other every night, sacrificed.  They were great teammates throughout the whole season.  So it was definitely fun.
Q. Kevin, when you make your decision this summer, what are the factors that go into that decision?
KEVIN DURANT: Just when I sit down and think about it -- to be honest, I haven't put that list together, I guess.  Just being around great people, being in a great basketball environment, that's the two most important things for me.  That's all I really care about.  Who I'm going to be doing life with every single day, who I'm going to be playing basketball with every day.
Q. Kevin, in March, there was a report that you were looking to be recruited and courted like LeBron James in free agency the way he was back two years ago, taking multiple visits to cities, listening to pitches.  Is that what you want?
KEVIN DURANT: I never said that.  That's not who I am.  Whatever this thing entails, I'm ready to take it head on, but I'm not that type of person.  I mean, that's not really -- like I said, the two most important things for me is being around great people and having fun playing basketball.  All that other stuff that comes with, being who I am and being in this position, it's not really what I'm concerned with.
So I never said that, obviously.  You could say that about any player in this position, but yeah.
Q. Kevin, a year ago today, you were in a boot.  Just as you look back on the last 12 months of your life, are you proud of all the strides you've made in the last 12 months?
KEVIN DURANT: Yeah, Sam was talking about this just now.  I was in his office at the same time -- well, not the same time, but around this time last year on a scooter in a cast.  So a lot has changed in a year.  I'm just grateful that I was able to stay with it and keep my head focused to move past that phase and make it to this point.  That's an accomplishment for me in and of itself.
It means a lot that I had the support of the people here to help me get through that time.  It's definitely something I'm always going to remember and just know I learned a lot of lessons during that time as well.  It's cool to be here walking.
Q. The fact that you've been through some long playoff runs before, but because you missed all of last year, did you appreciate this a little bit more so than the others?
KEVIN DURANT: Most definitely, man.  I was so excited.  You guys could tell, the first few games in the playoffs, I was just so excited to be part of that atmosphere again and to be back on that level, it was just amazing.  I appreciate every single moment.  We just always revert back to me being injured because that was the first time something got taken away from me that I love so much, and it just made me appreciate every moment.
Because we can easily talk about the end results of things, but the whole journey -- we talk about the end result, if it's not where it should be, it's a failure, but I look at it is as, look, this is an important part of my life.  These memories are something I'm always going to carry, and it was just great to be on the court playing in that atmosphere again.
Q. The fans here are very loyal, and they're obviously anticipating your decision.  What would be your message to them for respect of what you're going through and maybe to honor what you're going through?  What would be your message to the fan base?
KEVIN DURANT: Just know I respect the fans here.  I love them.  Obviously, it's something that I'm going to try to take care of with my close family and friends, my tight-knit circle that I have.  It's not like I'm trying to keep anything away.  It's just something that is so important.  It's a huge decision.  I want to keep it within the people I trust just to, I guess -- just to keep it there, I guess.  I don't know.
I want some time to really decompress and reflect on the season so I can move on with the summer and move on with this whole process.
So it may seem like I'm not talking, I'm not giving information, or whatever, but I'm just really trying to make sure I tie everything up properly and make this thing right.  It's kind of hard explaining that question, answering that question, but you know what I meant.
Q. The idea of a one-year deal had kind of been floated out there.  What's your thought process in terms of a shorter term deal can make you a lot more money down the road?
KEVIN DURANT: It's too soon, bro.  I really haven't thought about that.  I'm sure I'll talk to who I need to talk to to figure out the numbers and all that stuff that goes on.
But right now, like I say, I'm still reflecting.  I'm still in Game 7 mode right now.  I'm still trying to get out of that and just reflect on the year and hanging out with my teammates these next few days while we're all here in OKC.  I think that's what I'm really focused on right now.
But like I say, after I've had a few weeks to really wind down a bit, then I'll start having those discussions.
Q. You mentioned your tight-knit circle.  Russell Westbrook has obviously got a decision a year from now too.  Is he part of the people you'll talk to about the future?
KEVIN DURANT: It's kind of hard to talk to one of my teammates.  You know, obviously, we've been through a lot.  We know each other very, very well, but it's one of these things where I just -- I got to just hear from me and hear what I want and talk to myself about what I need and how I can make this thing work for myself and just try to be a little selfish a bit.
Obviously, I want to ask for advice, but I also want to make a decision that's best for me.  I'm sure at some point me and Russell will sit down and talk, but he's putting no pressure on me.  He's been just great in this whole thing and just being my friend.  I think that's one thing I needed throughout the whole year, throughout this whole process is just people to be my friend and worry about me as a person.
Q. Kevin, you handled this whole -- it seemed like you handled this whole year and all the uncertainty about you coming to play, it seemed like you handled it really well.  Billy talked about how much he appreciated that.  Did it wear on you at all?  Is it something you'd like to avoid as much as possible so you don't have to do this again?  Does a multi-year contract appeal to you just so you don't have to go through another year of all this uncertainty?
KEVIN DURANT: Like I said, that's why I'm fumbling over my words a little bit in this press conference because I really haven't -- like the question you guys are asking, I really haven't wrapped my mind around it yet.  Since it's so fresh, it's just coming out of the playoffs, I really haven't thought about next week more so than next month or what's going to happen.  I just tried to stay in the moment as much as I can, and I think I'm still in that moment now that I can't really say.
But like I said, I'm still trying to figure this whole thing out and just get away from the game, get away from all of this stuff as long as I can, and come back refreshed.  So that's my main concern.
Q. After all these years with this franchise, as you reflect, what are you most appreciative and thankful for?
KEVIN DURANT: Just the way we built this from the ground up.  Just the journey we all took together from the ground up.  Sam and I were talking, and it was like we started in a roller rink, and we made it to Western Conference Finals year after year, made it to The Finals before.  We have so many individual accolades that come through here from MVPs to first team All-NBAs to all the stuff that comes through here.
And the brand Oklahoma City is just so world known now, I think that just shows how much organization put the players first and put basketball first, but also put the community and this whole atmosphere.  We grouped it all into our organization and made it one, and that kind of drove us to where we wanted to go.
Just knowing that, I think that's the most -- that's what I'm so proud of and proud to be part of something that started really from something.
Q. How do you expect what happened to the playoffs?
KEVIN DURANT: And just to be a part of something that started really from nothing.
Q. How do you expect what just happened in the playoffs and your young core, Steve, Enes, those guys, playing as well as they did in the playoffs, how do you think that might affect your decision as you look at what this core could become?
KEVIN DURANT: I like how those guys played.  I think the next phase for all of us is what are our decisions going to be this summer?  We'll work on our game but come back even better, or are we going to be excited about what we did and be complacent, or are we going to want more?  I think that's the next step for us all is thinking how we can all be better.
I know these guys, man.  I know them.  They work hard from Steven to Dre to Dion, they work extremely hard.  So I have no regrets -- I have no doubts that they'll all come back better.  So that's definitely a huge part of it.  I enjoyed playing with these guys all year.  I enjoyed helping and learning from them as well.  So I have no doubts that we'll all come back a better group.
Q. What has Oklahoma City meant to you in your career on and off the court?  You kind of spent your whole adult life here in a way.
KEVIN DURANT: You're right, I have.  It's home.  That's how it's been for eight years.  The time has flown by.  You don't really know -- the time flies when you're having fun.  That's what I heard, and I think, as time has gone past so quickly, I've learned so much about myself, about being here as a basketball player and as a man.  I've been through a lot of different experiences just in this city, and it's something I'm always going to remember.
Q. How were you able to focus this season, putting aside all the hoopla and dealing with all the questions, how were you able to remain focused?
KEVIN DURANT: I was just thinking about the team and about my teammates.  It's unfair to the organization and to my teammates to be distracted.  I had to be the best me I could be, I think.  I was proud of how I was able to stay in the moment.  That's been a struggle for me as a young player in this league.  So I was staying conscious of being in the moment.  I was proud of how I stayed there, especially through the playoffs and the regular season.
It was just all about worrying about today, and once tomorrow gets there, I'll worry about that.  That's always -- that's who I've been the last few years, just taking it day by day.
Q. Kevin, I get you haven't thought about the specifics of free agency, that makes total sense, but have you thought about kind of what it means to you and your family considering how far you've come and kind of now you're in this position where you're the center of attention, even if that's not a place where you feel comfortable?  What does that mean to you and the rest of your family?
KEVIN DURANT: I mean, my family, they -- they're proud of me, excited for me, happy that I'm in this position.  Not the free agent stuff and none of that, but just being a basketball player and fulfilling my dreams I had, that they've all seen as kids, and happy that I'm at this point.  And just know that I wouldn't be here if it wasn't for the hard work and the dedication and the love and passion that I have for this game.  So they can appreciate the grind and how much I sacrificed.
But they just still look at me as Kevin, little Kevin.  One of the youngest guys running around the house as a kid.  I think that's how my aunts and uncles and my mom and my older brother, they all look at me as little Kevin.  So that's a great feeling to have when you have so many people surrounding you that want to know what you're going to do, and then you have that balance of family and friends just appreciating who you are to the core, and I think that's what helped me get through this year and helped me get through my injury, helped me get through it all.  So definitely appreciate them for that.  But it's kind of new for me to be -- you know, everybody wanting to know what I'm going to do and all this stuff.  It's kind of different and kind of new for me, but I'm learning along the way.
Q. What did you see from Billy?  From the start of the year, he called it an adjustment period the first few months to losing Monty into the playoffs and beyond.
KEVIN DURANT: Yeah, I mean, anything great takes time.  I think he did a great job.  Everybody wanted quick results.  We knew it was going to take time for us to get used to his coaching style, to figure out how every player responds to things.  Different personalities he has to juggle as a coach, that's hard to do, and he's expected to go far in the playoffs.  You've got to give him some credit.  He did a great job of getting everybody locked in every single night.
55 games, I thought we should have -- we talked about it last night.  Me and a couple of guys thought we should have won 66, 67 games easily this year, and I think that's all because he gave us that vision from day one, that we can be one of the best teams.  And I think having Coach Monty around and then having him -- the tragic accident that happened midway through the season, he kept us together.  He kind of drove the ship and helped us through that.  And then with the stuff that happened with Mr. McClendon and Dion's brother and so much stuff that went on throughout the season, that's not normal for a first year coach coming in.  He wasn't a deer in the headlights.  He did a great job for us, man.  He really deserved a lot of credit for where we were a couple days ago.
Q. Kevin, a lot of speculation that you guys had won the title, it would make your decision pretty pat just to stay.  But some other people said, if you won a title, you might think, oh, my job is done.  I might try something else.  How does the lack of a title so far affect your decision?
KEVIN DURANT: Barry, you're going to drive yourself crazy if you listen to everybody, man.  You look like you didn't know what was going on when you asked me that question.
Like I said, the most important thing for me is the type of people I'm going to be around every single day.  If I'm enjoying playing basketball, that's what I'm really -- that's the thing I really want to center everything around.  I love my teammates here.  I love playing basketball here.  So that's what's important to me.
Obviously, winning a championship is what we all want to do, but at the same time, you want to be around good people.  You want to be in a good environment with a good coach.  That's what's most important to me.
Q. (Indiscernible).
KEVIN DURANT: Me, I thought I was more cerebral than anything.  Tried to figure out which ways -- teams were playing different ways.  I couldn't wrap my mind around how a team is going to play me from night to night.  I didn't know.  Boston might play me different than Golden State or Philly or Cleveland or Miami.  So I had to really think going into every game, like how I'm going to be effective on the offensive end and defensive end, how I'm going to disrupt.  I thought I was just constantly thinking in the game has helped me out.  From sitting out and watching the game, that played a huge part in it.
So I learned a lot about myself as a player, and then just being the leader, I thought I took huge strides in learning my teammates better, knowing when they need to be encouraged, knowing when they need someone to lift them up and knowing when they need someone to get on them as well, and listening also when they had something to say to me.  I thought I learned a lot, growing in that area.  I thought that was important in my growth.
Q. How long will the loss in game 6 linger, do you think?
KEVIN DURANT: I had to get rid of it the next day because we had Game 7.  But when I look at the grand scheme of things, I tend to look at the whole run, not just one game.  I know that was an important game, but I look at the whole run from the regular season to the playoffs, and I was just so happy with our team and how we fought every single night, and with myself.  This was the first year where I didn't care about wins or losses.  I just went out there and tried to play free, and I think that's when I played my best basketball.
So I could live with anything that happens in between that.  So losing sucks, like I said, but when you give it your all and you do things the way you want to do it, you can -- you have no regrets walking off that court, and that's how I felt.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT