NBA PLAYOFFS ROUND ONE: CLIPPERS vs WARRIORS
April 18, 2019
Kevin Durant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Warriors - 132, Clippers - 105
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Kevin, the other day you were very descriptive about the defense the Clippers threw at you.  What did you see tonight, what was different, why were you so effective?
KEVIN DURANT: I think Coach Kerr came up with some plays for me at the start of the game.  I think doing that kind of set the tone.  Just putting pressure on the defense through post-ups, through dribble handoffs.  I think that was something we talked about this morning, just consciously with the way they play, just coming off a lot of Andrew Bogut screens, sitting in the post.  If they double, guys are moving.
We was just more patient tonight, to sum it up.
Q. After you got your second foul, what was key being able to play your game without getting more?
KEVIN DURANT: Just keep playing the same way.  I felt like the first two weren't fouls.
Q. Did you try to make it a point to come out and remind people exactly who you are with all the talk that's been going on in this series?
KEVIN DURANT: I've been here for 12 years.  I'm 30.  I don't need to show nobody nothing at this point.
Q. The statement, I am Kevin Durant.  To follow that proclamation up with the way you played, where does that need come from?
KEVIN DURANT: I think a lot of people who watch the game, who analyze the game, thought that I should be engaging in a one-on-one physical battle, whatever that is, to other people, with Patrick Beverley.  You know, I don't do that type of stuff.  I just play.
That's what I was trying to let people know.
Q. You mentioned all the screens you came off with Bogut.  How good has he been for you guys?
KEVIN DURANT: He's a smart basketball player, man.  Obviously being here, knowing the system helps.  I think he could play that way anywhere.  Just directing the offense when he needs to, rebounding, being in the right spots.
His talking, his energy, just everything since he been here been top of the line, especially his talk, how he guides guys out there every possession.  Something we definitely need.
Q. Wondering how the dynamic changes a little bit with DeMarcus out.
KEVIN DURANT: For me?  When DeMarcus started playing for us, late in the season, I think we definitely wanted to establish him in the post a lot to start games, you know what I'm saying?  His presence down there was very positive for us.  Without him in the lineup, I think coach just used me in his spots.
Q. You have had trouble sometimes keeping that consistency during the regular season.  How do you keep whatever you had tonight on?
KEVIN DURANT: Me?
Q. The team.
KEVIN DURANT: I think everybody in the arena kind of relaxed just a split second last game, even the fans, even the executives on the sidelines just watching.  Wish (indiscernible) in here.  Obviously the players and the coaches.
I think everybody felt like we had that game in hand last game.  30-point lead.  Hasn't happened in 30 some years.  It's kind of natural and normal for anybody watching that game to kind of relax, right?  Even at home.
But the players can't do that.  I think we did that.  I think that was just a smart lesson that we can learn from.  Our focus has been on points since late March, with the exception of like six minutes last game.
Q. You have aspirations for a deep playoff run.  Got the third tech today.  What happened there?  Do you have to do anything different to stay away from those?
KEVIN DURANT: I mean, me and JaMychal Green, we were conversing about the play that happened before, just like you and I.  Somebody came out of nowhere and checked us both.  How would you feel?  That was pretty quick.
Hopefully they rescind that one because I don't want somebody to think somebody is in my head, that's why I got that tech.  I just want to get that out of the way because I don't want to jeopardize my team in the future.
Q. A lot is made of Kevon's defensive versatility.  What do you think of his offense and awareness?
KEVIN DURANT: We all know what Loon can do on the defensive side of the ball.  A smart basketball player.  I think about everybody in our locker room has been on him to shoot those mid ranges, the ones he gets at the elbow, the 12, 13 foot area.  He should be shooting.  They look good, he worked on them.
Tonight he had a lot of opportunities to knock them down.  Five for seven.  He's been phenomenal this series as far as efficiency on the offensive side of the ball, along with his defense.
We going to need him to continue to just shoot those, you know what I'm saying, keep people at bay.  Definitely excited for him throughout this series because his confidence is growing.
Q. Last month or so you've been pass first, distributor for the team.
KEVIN DURANT: That's not true.
Q. That's not?
KEVIN DURANT: No.  I don't pass those shots, I just play within the offense.
Q. You've been more of a distributor.  Is that safe to say?
KEVIN DURANT: Yeah, because that's how we play.
Q. Tonight you wasn't, right?
KEVIN DURANT: Yeah, because coach called more plays for me to start.
Q. Moving forward, do you think it will on a game-by-game basis as far as how you approach the game?
KEVIN DURANT: Look, I don't run the show.  Any team I've ever been a part of, I'm just a player.  I'm one of the guys, you know what I'm saying?  Whatever my coach needs me to do, don't matter what it is, I just got to go out there and be prepared for it mentally or physically.
Tonight no different.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT