NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 13, 2016
Kevin Durant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  On being an All-Star with Russell Westbrook:  
KEVIN DURANT: It's cool just to have your teammates here with you.  It's more so me being happy for him, just knowing the journey he's been on to be a five-time All-Star is amazing.  Something nobody can ever take away from him.  I'm also happy that he's here with me, and happy that he's being looked at as one of the best players in the world.   
 Q.  Does Kobe seem different this year?  In what ways?  
KEVIN DURANT: Just a little bit more loose.  I think years before on teams that were playoff and championship contenders, he would talk, but he knew it was all about business once he left, so he didn't want to open up too much and be looked at as, I guess, soft in his his words.  He just opened up more.   
These last few years he's been more of a big brother to us all, and I wish we could have more time around him, but we cherish what we have now and appreciate all he's done.   
 Q.  So he's softened up?  
KEVIN DURANT: Yeah, most definitely.   
 Q.  You know Chris Paul pretty well.  He's here for his ninth All-Star Game.  What is it about his game throughout the year with all the talent?  
KEVIN DURANT: He's a skilled player and he's smart.  He has the ball in his hands a lot, he makes the right decisions.  Once you have those skills combined with confidence, man, you're an All-Star.  He puts in the work, so he's always going to be in the elite level of company because he puts in the work, and his numbers speak for themselves.   
 Q.  How do you make sure the Thunder are ready for the playoffs?  
KEVIN DURANT: We're still in February so we just have to worry about today.  We just have to take it a day at a time.  We're in a good groove right now.  We like where we are.  We just have to keep fighting and keep working.   
 Q.  What was Billy Donovan's message to the team at the break?  
KEVIN DURANT: Enjoy your break.  Come back ready to go to get better on both sides of the ball.  But mainly just to enjoy the break.  This is important -- guys need to relax.  Think about the first half of the season a little bit, throw it away and try to get ready for the second half.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT