NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 12, 2016
Kevin Durant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. First All-Star Game, but is it the coldest experience at an All-Star Game?
KEVIN DURANT: Yeah, last year was pretty cold too in New York City.  But it's definitely good to be back, but this weather is a little different.
Q. Kevin, how you feeling?  You had a game last night.  It was a late night, I imagine.  How are you feeling this morning?
KEVIN DURANT: Yeah, I feel good.  I feel good.  I've been here before and I've done this before, so I feel good.  Looking forward to a great weekend.
Q. You've had the highest scoring average at the All-Star Game.  How do you go into games like this on a stage like this?  Do you feel the game out or do you just attack it?
KEVIN DURANT: I just feel it out and see whatever the game tells me to do, I'll do.  Sometimes you have to take the pace of the game, but for the most part you just have to send it out.  It's always a fun game.  You always want to give the fans a good game.
Q. Do you feel you'll defer to Kobe a lot?
KEVIN DURANT: He might defer to us.  He knows that -- this being his last one and he really respects all of these young players.  So it's just exciting to be part of something special with this being his last game on this stage.
Q. Magic and MJ had a great final All-Star Game.  I know you're saying may not defer to him or he may defer to you guys.
KEVIN DURANT: Who knows.
Q. What does it mean for you guys to give him his last hurrah?
KEVIN DURANT: It means a lot to be a part of that.  We definitely want to send him off on a good note.  We know he's going to be super competitive.  This is the last time he's going to be with all these elite players and on the court again.  So it should be fun, man.  We'll see.  We definitely want to go out there and kind of plan for what's going to happen and let it happen.  That's how the game is played.  I'm sure he's going to come out with a lot of energy.
Q. How do you feel about hanging out in the city of Toronto?
KEVIN DURANT: I love Toronto, man.  I come here every summer and hang out for a few days.  It's a beautiful city, very diverse.  I just love being here.  It just reminds me a little bit of a mini New York City.  So it's cool to hang here.
Q. It's not either one of your first All-Star Games for you and Russell, but both of you are starters this year.  Talk about that and being a starter this season.
KEVIN DURANT: It's amazing the work he's put in, the work I've put in, you start to see it.  To start in an All-Star Game, it's like a little validation that the fans see it.  Your peers have been seeing it, but for the fans to notice it, it means a lot.
Q. What do you think of all the great young Canadian players coming up?
KEVIN DURANT: There's a lot of talent.  Just the way the game's going now and the coverage of the game, I think a lot of kids are watching it and emulating what they see.  That's huge.  Around the world we want the game to grow, and here in Toronto you're seeing it the last three or four years.  You have guys that are doing great in this league.  So it's just a matter of time before the rest of the world catches on.
Q. How do you handle your time between basketball and endorsement commitments?
KEVIN DURANT: This is my seventh one, so I know how to navigate a little bit through that stuff.  Definitely learn how to scale it back from the endorsement side.  Because it's really supposed to be a break for us.  But All-Star is a little bit different because you're doing it a little bit more than what a normal player would do in the All-Star break.  I might have to scale it back.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT