NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 13, 2015
Kevin Durant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What are your thoughts on All-Star Weekend?KEVIN DURANT: It's definitely cool being here.  This is my sixth one.  I don't want to take it for granted.  I just want to enjoy it.  Get through everything safely.  Get ready for the second half of the season.Q. How did you come up with the shoulder shimmy on the sideline?KEVIN DURANT: I don't know, it just happened.  One of those things that just happened.  Relaxing a little bit.  I don't know, it just happened.Q. Is it kind of like a good luck thing now?KEVIN DURANT: Yes, I guess so.  Sometimes I don't even know that I'm doing it.Q. You said if somebody wanted your spot here they could play you for it.  Any candidates for that?KEVIN DURANT: That was more so a joke.Q. I know.KEVIN DURANT: I'm not sure if you got that sense of humor.Q. I have it.KEVIN DURANT: Whoever.Q. (Inaudible)  is it even more special this year because you were in the middle of --KEVIN DURANT: Yeah, yeah.  Sort of like when I'm out on the court I produce.  I add value to our team.  Sometimes you listen to the outside and people make you feel like you didn't deserve it or you didn't work for it.  So that made me appreciate it even more. I'm glad I'm here, man.  It's one of these years that you can mark down and nobody can ever take from you.  So I'm very excited.Q. Kevin, obviously the injuries, have they been frustrating, aggravating, annoying, irritating?  How would you sum it up?KEVIN DURANT: I love basketball.  I love being out here with my teammates and playing in front of our crowd.  When I look at the big picture, I'm doing something I love every single day for my living.  My family is taken care of.  My friends get to watch me play.  Some days when I'm feeling down on myself, I start to think about that and realize that things could be worse. There's days where I am frustrated because of these nagging injuries that keep creeping up.  But when I look at the big picture, I'm blessed to be here.Q. Obviously these two teams are two of the teams that in 2016 you've been linked to or they've been linked to.  Any thoughts on these two teams and the wonderful weather we're having this weekend?KEVIN DURANT: New York?Q. The Nets and the Knicks.KEVIN DURANT: I don't even think about those teams.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT