NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v SPURS
May 24, 2014
Kevin Durant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about how you guys mentally are preparing for this one and game planning with or without Serge.   
KEVIN DURANT:   I can't tell you our game plan.   No, but we're just getting back to what we do is definitely a key for us on both ends of the floor.   First two games were obviously bad for us, and we're going to get past it and move forward and learn from it and get better.   Glad we've got another opportunity to play Game 3 on our home floor.   Just try to change this thing up.  
   
 Q.   You guys were very clear going into the series that you felt like you could win without Serge.   What will it take to get to the level that that requires?   
KEVIN DURANT:   Well, we have to be more engaged than we have been from a focus and mental standpoint.   The scheme, that's going to take care of itself once you get your mental right.   We're a confident group, and we know how bad the first two games were for us.   We want to correct it, and we have a lot of pride here, too.   We're looking forward to playing.  
   
 Q.   For you personally what is the focus?   What do you want to see yourself do in the next couple games?  
KEVIN DURANT:   I've got to do more.   I've got to dig deeper and find out what it is and how I can help my team out a little bit more by having to do more, and I own up to everything.   I own up to not playing well and own up to our team losing two in a row by that much, own up to it, and as it is, I've got to take it on the chin and learn from it and get better from it and try to put out a better game in Game 3.  
   
 Q.   Learning Serge might be available, was that any type of emotional boost for you guys?  
KEVIN DURANT:   I don't know what his status is.   I've heard some stuff, but I don't know.   But we're preparing like he's not playing because that's what he said before we started the series.   We've all got to dig deep ourselves and figure out what we have to do, and I think guys have done a great job the last few days.   
   
 Q.   You guys have been resilient just even in this Playoffs alone when you've had your backs against the wall.   What's allowed you to have success and what are you going to need in this case?  
KEVIN DURANT:   Well, just embracing those moments and knowing that tough times build your character, and I think this is another step for us, another obstacle for us, and we're going to see what we do, how we handle it.   That's what being a man is all about, and that's what a team is all about is going through tough times.   It's kind of easy to stay together when you're sweeping a series, but to hit some adversity like we've done in this Playoffs shows the type of team we are.   We've always been a bounce‑back type of team, so we've got to make sure we not just talk about it but go out there and do it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT