NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v SPURS
May 19, 2014
Kevin Durant
Russell Westbrook
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







San Antonio  – 122
  Oklahoma City  – 105

Q.   Guys, do you take anything positive out of this?   You were able to take the lead in the third quarter despite they were shooting percentages they were shooting quite a bit better than you.   I know you're probably disappointed overall, but do you take something good out of this, Kevin? 
KEVIN DURANT:   No.   We don't believe in moral victories.   Third quarter was obviously our best quarter but we didn't close it out well.   It's Game 1, we've got to make adjustments and be better for the next game.   We're not taking no moral victories out of it. 

Q.   Russell, they had so many points inside.   Was that to be expected because Serge wasn't there or tell me what you were doing defensively to allow them all those points in the paint? 
RUSSELL WESTBROOK:   Just got to do a better job of closing the paint off. I thought we did a better job in the second half of just putting more pressure on them, making it tough for them to get inside the paint. 

Q.   How tough is the transition from the style the Clippers play to the way the Spurs play?   Has that been tough for you guys at all do you think in this first game? 
RUSSELL WESTBROOK:   Not really.   Spurs are playing pretty fast.   They get the ball up the floor, shooting quick shots, kind of like the Clippers.   Definitely different personnel, different players, but going to look at the film and get ready for Game 2. 

Q.   Russell, you guys in the third quarter really seemed to be in attack mode from that point guard position.   Is that something that you feel like you can maybe do even more, moving ahead? 
RUSSELL WESTBROOK:   Yeah, but be smart.   My job is to stay in attack mode but also find guys and try to find open shooters.   Like Kevin said, we've just got to do a better job of closing out that third quarter. 

Q.   Kevin, where did you guys miss Serge the most tonight?   Was it the basket protection? 
KEVIN DURANT:   Well, we play team defense, we don't just rely on Serge.   He does a great job of blocking shots, but it's all because of our team defense.   He's a big part of what we do, you know.   He's a starter, had his best season this year, so of course we're going to miss his presence, but we have guys that are going to step up and do it collectively.   Look, Serge is not going to be here.   He's injured for the rest of the postseason, so we've got to move past that and just keep playing as a team. 

Q.   Kevin, how do you and Russell fight the urge to just try to do it all by yourselves since you guys are able to score in bunches, especially when things start to go south? 
KEVIN DURANT:   Well, we've got to continue to trust, and I think that's what we did all game is we trusted.   We turned the ball over a little bit too much, but we've got to continue to trust no matter if guys are hitting shots or not.   We've got to keep playing within our offense and playing with the pass, and we'll be fine. 
We do a good job of attacking, not just for ourselves but for our teammates.   Like I said, we've got to continue to keep trusting them. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT