NBA FINALS: HEAT v THUNDER
June 19, 2012
Kevin Durant
Russell Westbrook
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.   Russell, talk about your outstanding performance tonight.   You were a big‑time scorer tonight.   Talk about that. 
RUSSELL WESTBROOK:   Well, just trying to stay in attack mode.   Shots were falling.   But it really doesn't mean nothing.   We didn't come out with the win. 

Q.   Kevin, can you sort of describe the emotions outside of disappointment now?   And what do you envision the next 48 hours being like as you try to right this thing? 
KEVIN DURANT:   Well, we're going to keep fighting.   Frustrating to lose like that.   It was just frustrating.   But we're going to keep fighting, man.   That's how we've been since I got here.   We're going to keep fighting and just take it a possession and a game at a time.   We'll see. 

Q.   Russell, the foul off the jump ball, did you not know the situation?   Was something not communicated to you?
RUSSELL WESTBROOK:   No, it was just a miscommunication on my part.   Nothing I can do about it now. 

Q.   Kevin, can you talk about the way Russ kind of kept you guys in it the whole fourth quarter and continued to attack and make shots? 
KEVIN DURANT:   Yeah, he had it going since the beginning of the game, and when a guy has got it going, we've got to keep feeding him.   He was making shots and keeping us in the game, and we just tried to play off of him.   He had a really, really good game.   Unfortunately, like he said, it doesn't matter if we didn't get the win.   We've just got to keep pushing and keep fighting.   We did some good things. 

Q.   Can you guys talk about the struggles you're having offensively.   One of the higher scoring teams in the league not breaking 100, and the problems you're having finding a third scorer to complement what you guys are doing. 
KEVIN DURANT:   Well, we shot 49 percent from the field.   We were 3‑for‑16 from the three.   But we got confidence in everybody to make shots, and we're going to keep passing them the ball.   We had 98 points, we didn't have 100.   It was two points away from 100.   We've just got to keep playing, keep passing the ball, and hopefully make some shots. 

Q.   Russell, you had to like your chances when Kevin made a basket to make it 94‑92.   Take us through from that point out when they outscored you 12‑4 the rest of the way. 
RUSSELL WESTBROOK:   Definitely happy about our chances at that point.   They got some late tip‑in rebounds, some free throws, just little things.   But that has nothing to do with throughout the game how we played and towards the end of the game. 

Q.   Kevin, I know you know LeBron, was any part of you surprised the way he came in after being hurt and hit those two big shots, or is there nothing that really surprises you about LeBron?
KEVIN DURANT:   I wasn't worried about that.   I was just trying to rally our guys together and try to get a win.   Unfortunately we lost. 

Q.   Russell, you've taken some heat, whether you know it or not you have, but tonight, of course, you shouldn't take a whole lot.   Was there any vindication at all?   I know you guys didn't win, but personally do you feel okay about it? 
RUSSELL WESTBROOK:   No.   Let me get this straight, what you guys say doesn't make me happy, make me sad, doesn't do anything.   It's all about my team and us winning a game.   I don't have a personal challenge against you guys, and it's not me against the world.   It's not the world against me.   It's me and my teammates trying to win. 

Q.   Kevin, was there any tiredness or fatigue either mentally or physically by your side by the end of the game? 
KEVIN DURANT:   No.

Q.   Nothing at all? 
KEVIN DURANT: (Shaking head.)

Q.   You definitely are the leaders of this team.   What's going to be the message?   Because you have to come back and play another game.   We know your talent and we know you're coming back to get a W, but what is the message to get others involved?   Because it was you two guys only tonight. 
RUSSELL WESTBROOK:   Just keep playing, man.   We're going to stay aggressive, keep trying to find guys.   Guys are going to stay confident.   We're going to stick together and try to get a win. 

Q.   Kevin, in the past two games the Miami defense is trying real hard to deny you the ball.   Would you like to change something about the offense?   Because they are really trying to deny you the ball. 
KEVIN DURANT:   Yeah, they are.   They're sitting guys in my lap.   When I catch the ball, sometimes they're doubling.   But I've just got to keep being aggressive.   My teammates are going to keep looking for me.   I find a way to score, I find a way to get the ball, and we'll be all right.   We've got to keep believing, and that's what I'm going to keep doing.   That's the message I'm going to feed to the guys.   Me and Russell are going to tell them to keep believing, and next game is a must‑win. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT