NBA FINALS: HEAT v THUNDER
June 17, 2012
Kevin Durant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  Oklahoma City Thunder - 85  
Miami Heat - 91  
   
 Q.   You guys lost the battle in the paint again, but then you managed to stay in the game.   This was anybody's game.   What do you feel you can improve?   Because the series is going to still be tough, but at the end you guys committed some turnovers and the Miami Heat took advantage of it.   What can you change in Game 4?   
KEVIN DURANT:   I think our defense was good.   They got a few offensive rebounds early on we wish we could have back.   We put ourselves in a position to win.   That's what it's about.   
Tough loss.   This is not over.   It's not over.   We've got to be ready for next game.   
   
 Q.   Second game in a row that you get in foul trouble.   What do you think you can do different moving forward as far as guarding LeBron or any other Miami Heat player?   
KEVIN DURANT:   Not foul.   I mean, I don't know, I'm just trying to play aggressive on both ends, and unfortunately I'm getting some fouls called on me, but I've got to play through it.   Two games in a row, man, so I've just got to play smarter next game, and hopefully I don't get no fouls called.   
   
 Q.   You guys are not adverse to turnovers.   You have turnovers from time to time, but most of them are turnovers of aggression.   Tonight you had some unforced errors, especially in the fourth quarter.   What caused those sort of throw‑away passes and lost possessions?  
KEVIN DURANT:   Just making bad passes.   We've got to do a better job and correct it.   It's not like they're forcing us to just turn the ball over.   We had 11 tonight, but we had some tough ones.   We've just got to do a better job.   I know I have to do a way better job.   We've just got to own up to it and get better.   
   
 Q.   You guys talked about needing to be tougher coming in.   Do you think that Perk gave you guys that defensive toughness throughout the game tonight?  
KEVIN DURANT:   Yeah, he did.   He was tough all night, got 12 rebounds, played well for us.   We just need that from him for the rest of the series.   Also Serge and Nick, and guys are playing hard.   Guys are playing hard, so we've just got to continue to keep playing together and believing.   We'll be all right.   
   
 Q.   When you got your fourth, kind of what was going through your mind?   And what did you think about the move to come out at that time?   Do you wish you would have stayed in?  
KEVIN DURANT:   That's Coach's call.   I had four, I think, I want to say four or five minutes to go in the third, and we had a nice little rhythm going.   I had a nice rhythm going on the offensive end, and for it to just stop like that by me going out of the game because of fouls is kind of tough.  
   
 Q.   How frustrating watching that run with you and Russ out shortly after that for the rest of the third?  
KEVIN DURANT:   It was frustrating.   Of course we had a good lead and they came back and made some shots.   We fouled shooters on the three‑point line twice.   It's a tough break for us, man.   You know, I hate sitting on the bench, especially with fouls.   Just got to do a better job next game of staying out of foul trouble.   
   
 Q.   Talk about your team's outstanding free‑throw shooting during the year, but you missed nine tonight, seven in each of the first two games.   What's going on at the line?  
KEVIN DURANT:   We're missing.   We've just got to be focused and disciplined and knock them down.   Last game we missed seven and lost by four; missed nine, lost by six.   Just got to be disciplined.   
   
 Q.   Do you find this gym a tough place to play?   
KEVIN DURANT:   The fans are good.   You know, but we can't really worry about that.   We've just got to stick together as a group.  
   
 Q.   Does it get to you at all?  
KEVIN DURANT:   No.  
   
 Q.   Just wondering, now that you've been in the league a few years and you've been through these playoff wars, do you sense any difference in the officiating from the regular season than during the Playoffs?   
KEVIN DURANT:   I try not to concern myself with the officiating.   They're going to make their calls, and there's nothing we can do about it.   We can't change it.   Just got to play through it.   There's going to be some calls they may miss.   They're human.   There's going to be some calls that they get right.   Just got to play through it.   
   
 Q.   How would you describe your team's end‑game execution?   
KEVIN DURANT:   Today we could have been better, of course.   Russell got a wide‑open three on the left corner‑‑ I mean, the left wing.   Looked good.   But we missed some shots, missed some shots.   But we put ourselves in a position to win.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT