UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT SAN ANTONIO FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 16, 2017
Marcus Davenport
Dalton Sturm
Kerry Thomas, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Southern - 17, UTSA - 51
Q. Dalton, any fears of a letdown, you guys seemed to put to bed early.  You came out and just really were on your game from the get go?
DALTON STURM: We try not to take anybody lightly so we have been preparing all week for a fight like Coach said.  Come out and play our game and do a lot of good things on offense.
Q. Marcus, you seemed to pin your ears back tonight.  Was it something that was part of the plan to really put some pressure on their quarterback and not let them get any rhythm going early?
MARCUS DAVENPORT: Yeah, honestly we just prepared for them like we would any other team.  We had to go out and we had to do what we had to do.
Q. Kerry, I just wanted to ask, was that the best half of football, would you say, that you've seen this team play?
KERRY THOMAS., JR.: I think so far this year, that probably was the best half we've played so far.  But I don't think we at all are complacent about it.  I think we did good in the first half.  Guys stepped it up in the second half?
Q. In your time here, have you ever seen this team play better than that?
KERRY THOMAS., JR.: I'm not sure.  I think we did a great job, though.  I'm just proud of the way we played the first half.
Q. For the second week in a row, you seemed really razor sharp.  Is it the thought process headed into the game -- can you explain how accurate you've been so far this season?
DALTON STURM: Preparation.  We spend a lot of time in the film room going over certain stuff, coverages, going over stuff with the receivers and stuff like that.
But the line's been doing a great job making me feel comfortable in the pocket.  That's huge, being able to stand back there and know that I'm not going to get hit and knowing where the receiver is going to be, that's a big edge.
Q. Kerry, talk about the way you guys came out today and didn't mess around, kind of put the foot down early and like you meant business?
KERRY THOMAS., JR.: Like they said, it's just credit to our preparation.  I don't think we went into this game trying to take the team lightly at all.  I think we treated this game just like any other game.  Just had to prepare for them throughout the course of the week.  We wanted to come out with a lot of fire.  We knew this was going to be our home opener, so we had to come out with a lot of fire for our fans and I think we did a great job of that.
Q. Marcus, that was interesting to see the defense when you got an interception come off the field and throw the ball down, dunking in the barrel there.  Can you talk to us about how that developed, how y'all came up with that?
MARCUS DAVENPORT: Obviously, we want to have turnovers as a defense so we stress taking the ball away from their offense.  It's kind of the celebration, you know.  When they score, they get to -- you know, their little thing (Laughter) and when we get an interception or any turnover, we are going to dunk it in the bin.
Q. Who's dunk was the best do you think?
MARCUS DAVENPORT: I have to say, (Andrew) Martel. (laughter)






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT