NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: LIGHTNING v RANGERS
May 25, 2015
Brenden Morrow
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Obviously, you guys want to go back to New York now, right?   Is that the approach you have to take for a Game 6? 
    BRENDEN MORROW:   Yeah, same as Montreal, they're great cities to visit.   You want to take advantage of this game, and we know it's going to be the toughest one.   The elimination game is always the toughest.   But you want to have success and play the type of game we did, and worry about keeping the puck out of the net, and we always find a way to get some.

Q.   Last night wasn't a typical Lightning type of game really?
    BRENDEN MORROW:   No, been run and gun, not really typical.   What we've wanted to do from day one in training camp was this team can score.   We get opportunities, and we want to limit the chances against, and we kind of left ourselves on an island a couple games before last night. 
    But last night I think it was just focused on back pressure, taking time and space away.

Q.   Did you think of it almost as an insult that people are saying Tampa can only stay run‑and‑gun style, this type of team?   (Indiscernible) not just yourself, but even the outside world? 
    BRENDEN MORROW:   Not really.   I mean, I'm not sure how many guyslisten to what you guys say a whole lot anyways.   Shouldn't go there, I guess. 
    I think we've proven all year we can kind of win it anyway.   If you look at our elimination game against Montreal, that was from start to finish the best game I think we've played all year defensively. 
    So I know we can do it.   We don't always prove it, but usually the biggest stages the biggest games, our best efforts come out.

Q.   Do you expect the nastiness and chippiness to continue? 
    BRENDEN MORROW:   Yeah, I think you look at our series, and I don't think it's as chippy as the other one going on right now or the ones we've been in previously.   There is a lot at stake.   Emotionally, everyone's involved and engaged, and sometimes you can cross the line. 
    But it's a war, a battle.   It's really not.   It's competition, and competing.   Everyone's trying to win.   Sometimes the emotions get the better of you, and sometimes not.

Q.   (Indiscernible) last night, during the first period or second period? 
    BRENDEN MORROW:   Well, I think we got a good sense of where we were going to be at with our penalty kills early.   I'm not sure what our percentage was previous to last night's game, but it wasn't very good.   And I think those were a couple big kills in the first, if we had two or three, I'm not sure of the number, but Bish was huge back there.   Guys were eating pucks and blocking shots.   You could see pretty early on, the desperation there.   You could see it in our game and we were willing to block those shots.

Q.   Talk about that willingness.   Was there a conscientious effort before the game to get out there and make sure you sacrifice yourselves?   There was one play you and Boyler were going out at the same time. 
    BRENDEN MORROW:   I think, yeah, right from the start of the game, Paquette had made a big block earlier, and guys were really willing to, like you said, sacrifice and do whatever it takes.   We're going to need that type of effort and more for this next one.

Q.   Would you say you guys played better as the game went on? 
    BRENDEN MORROW:   I think, yeah.   We probably settled in.   There may have been a few more odd‑man rushes early in the game and had our feet under us a little bit and knew what was coming at us.   Maybe even forced the other way and pushed the issue getting pucks 200 feet and trying to hem them in. 
    There were times we took some on in our zone, but we kept them to the outside and Bishop did a good job of stopping the shots.   I think their "D" were boxing out and keeping the rebounds away.

Q.   (Indiscernible) that might be different?   Might be similar to some things? 
    BRENDEN MORROW:   Well, what stands out is, I'm not sure the average age, but it's pretty young.   Might be the only guy with gray in the beard right now.   So that is the biggest thing. 
    But the speed and the youth of the team is a huge issue, but a big difference of things that have been in the past, but I think the maturity of them and they've all seemed to want it on some level.   They know what it takes to win championships, and the willingness to compete and battle.   Not the biggest guys, but they compete harder than the competition. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT