NHL ENTRY DRAFT
June 21, 1997
Brenden Morrow
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Well, when I went down to Toronto, I had a good interview I thought. I talked to Craig and Tim and the doctor there and the psychologist guy and things went good and I never, -- you never really know, but I sensed it a little bit, but good things worked out like this.

Yeah. I had a pretty good year. I started off really good and I didn't play as good at the end of the season then the start, but I pretty much had a good season.

Power forward, picking up loose bucks, screens and picks and kind of a garbage man in front of the net.

No, I didn't know much about the city or the team. I know a lot of the players, but like I followed them quite a bit. Like the coach Hitchcock.

Yeah, it's about 1200 people I guess.

1200 people.

It's in the southeast corner of Saskatchewan.

Well, Jim Mackenzie used to live there, but he wasn't born there, I don't think.  He is the only one.

About two-and-a-half hours.  It's great down there.

It's a good city too.

Yes, I am a left wing. I used to play center a little bit and I can switch to right wing, but I'm more or less left wing.
Yeah. I do I was compared to him quite a bit because he played in Portland too I heard a lot about him. And I started watching him in the world juniors and the playoffs and I guess I copied his style a little bit.
They did last year. I didn't. No, they didn't anymore.

Yeah, that was a year ago.
6 year old.

I don't know. Just McDonalds I guess.

196, 197.

My brother used to play, but he got into a quad accident and busted his knee up, he really can't do anything physically.  His knees are like crooked.

My dad played hockey.  He was a goalie and broke his wrist and fell off the tractor.

When I was three, I was playing road hockey and broke his wrist with one of my shots with a tennis ball.

I would like to be, yeah.

That's my goal right now.

That's good. It's a good sign.

I have to have a good camera.

I don't know anyone, but like I've seen like Todd Harvey and Pat Rubie. Not Pat. Yeah, a little bulldog guy.  Nieuwendyk.  Modano he used to be my favorite when I was younger.

Not any more


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT