PENN STATE UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 5, 2013
Adam Gress
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 Q.   Played a little left tackle on Saturday.   How comfortable do you feel playing left as opposed to right?   What are the differences as you compare and contrast both those positions?  
ADAM GRESS:   Coach Mac find it's very important that all of us know how to play both sides.   I honestly think that I've played it enough that whenever I get put there in the game or in practice or whatever, I practiced enough on both sides that it feels comfortable.   It feels completely natural.  
   
 Q.   In the last two away games for you guys there were obviously some struggles there.   What is it about the road this year?   Is it just kind of dumb luck or something more than that?   
ADAM GRESS:   I doubt that it's really related to being on the road.   I know me personally when you wake up on game day you get in the locker room, you get changed and you're ready to go regardless.   I wouldn't say that it really has that much to do with being on the road as it does with how the game went.  
   
 Q.   Did your dad ever coach you?  
ADAM GRESS:   No, my dad actually didn't play football in high school or anything.   No.  
   
 Q.   What have you seen from guys whose dads coached them in high school?   Are they any different in how they react to criticism and how they're evaluated?   
ADAM GRESS:   I think a good example would be Ty Howle who is a good friend of mine.   His dad coached him in high school, and I think the biggest thing is that Ty's a really smart player.   He really knows what's going on with the game, and he loves football so much.   I think that's a big part of the upbringing with that.  
   
 Q.   Brian was talking about how flexibility is such a big part of pass blocking.   Do you consider yourself flexible?   How does that help when it comes to that?   
ADAM GRESS:   Yeah, I would say that I am.   I just think at the end of the day it depends on how much you work on specific things when it comes to the pass game.   I just make sure on right and left side I've got quick feet and quick hands and get done what I have to do.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about Bill Belton's progression this year?   What you've seen from him?   Also analyze your guys run blocking over the course of the season?   
ADAM GRESS:   Yeah, I think the run game has been awesome throughout the entire season so far.   I think up front we've done a lot of great things.   I think Bill has been obviously running the ball great.   We love whenever he runs the ball well, because it makes us look good.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the challenge that Minnesota presents defensively with Hageman and company up front?   
ADAM GRESS:   All of their defensive linemen, him especially, they're quick, they're big, and they're fast guys.   They play aggressively.   They're definitely a good bunch, but we'll game plan and be ready for them.  
   
 Q.   Has discipline been a point of emphasis for you guys heading into this week especially considering you guys had 11 penalties on Saturday against Illinois?   
ADAM GRESS:   I think that's an important part of the game plan for any game.   You go into a game you're not expecting‑‑ you didn't go into a game expecting to have 11 penalties.   Those things just kind of happen sometimes.   But it's definitely important to focus on the fact that we can't do that every game.  
   
 Q.   Bill was just in here talking about Anthony Zettel and the strength that he brings to the defensive line.   What's it like lining up against him every day on the other side of that?   He kind of seems like a guy who plays with a nastiness to his style.   Is that a fair assessment would you say?   
ADAM GRESS:   Yeah, absolutely.   He's definitely somebody who is going to come off the ball aggressive and go hard every play.   Whenever I'm lined up across from him, I'm always ready to go because I know he's bringing it to the table.  
   
 Q.   Can when you talk about flexibility.   How important is that for offensive linemen compared to other positions?   Do you do any unique workouts to build that skill when you're training?   
ADAM GRESS:   You're saying flexibility in terms of like how far a person can stretch, correct?   Not like being able to switch back and forth?   
   
 Q.   However Bill meant it or however you would consider it.   
ADAM GRESS:   I mean in terms of being able to stretch, we go through different things in the training room and the strength.   Coach Fitz has us do different things whenever we're in the weight room.   We definitely do different stretches and drills to prepare ourselves to be the most flexible we can be.  
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT