NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RANGERS v CANADIENS
May 28, 2014
Lars Eller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   For a game with so many goals last night, what do you expect from the next game, more of the same or are we going to go back to the formula we've seen throughout the playoffs during this series?   
LARS ELLER:   I'd expect to‑‑ we've seen a lot of different hockey, lot of different kind of games throughout this series, so you have to expect everything and be ready for anything.   Nothing should catch you by surprise by now.   
But for us, we want to see a lot of the same things that we did yesterday going into the next game.   Last night was probably the best game we've played in this series, so if we keep doing a lot of those things, I think the end result will be good.  
   
 Q.   Do you believe the Canadiens have gotten under the Rangers' skin and caused them to lose their composure based on the flow of last night's game and the result?   
LARS ELLER:   I don't know.   It's too early to tell.   We'll see when the series is done which team gets to keep their composure and keep their emotions intact the best.   But I like what we've been doing so far.  
   
 Q.   Are you expecting a more physical, more intense type of game, given this one you had the lead early and they came back?  
LARS ELLER:   Do I expect a more physical game?   Not necessarily.   I don't think these two teams strongest assets aren't the physical play.   It's speed and skill.   But that being said, it's the playoffs.   The longer this series goes, the more physical it's been, so it's going to play in too, but I think both teams know that's not the way you're going to win this series.   
But at the same time, sometimes it's emotions out there.   Things happen quickly.   That's what the players are all about, so there is going to be physicality, too, but I don't think it's going to be‑‑ that's what it's going to be all about.  
   
 Q.   You played quite a bit with Alex Galchenyuk this year.   Can you describe your impressions on the way he's come back in the series and especially played last night?   
LARS ELLER:   He's come back strong.   I think better than anybody expected him to because he was out for quite a time.   He's done everything we could ask from him.   He's playing well.   He's filling out his role being an important player for us.   So we hopefully will see the same from him going forward.  
   
 Q.   Do you see something blossoming from his play that was here now that might not have been there in his first few games?  
LARS ELLER:   No, I've seen him play at this level before.   I'm not surprised about that.   He's only played three games in this series, so I'm sure he's got a lot of adrenaline going, coming back in, and now he's riding off that wave.   He's just going to keep doing that.   But I'm not seeing anything from him I haven't seen before, which is not a bad thing.   I know how good he is.   Everybody knows.  
   
 Q.   What are the skills or complexities that are part of Alex's skills even though he's off for a stretch?   
LARS ELLER:   Yeah, he doesn't look rusty at all.   He's going into traffic.   He's making plays in tight.   He's making good decisions all around.   
   
  
  
   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT