CHICK-FIL-A CHARITY CHAMPIONSHIP
May 1, 2004
Grace Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Let's go over your score card.
GRACE PARK:  No. 3, hit a 7-iron to about six feet, made that for birdie.

No. 4, 6-iron to about four feet for birdie.

No. 6, 3-wood to the right green-side bunker.  Hit it to about four feet.  Made that one for birdie.

No. 8, I pulled my 7-iron way left.  The ball was in the hazard against the rock, whatever.  I tried to chip out.  Didn't work.  One putted for bogey.

No. 10, hit my drive to the right bunker, kind of chunked it out there.  Chipped up, missed the putt for bogey.

THE MODERATOR:  How far was that?
GRACE PARK:  12 feet.

13, par 5, hit 3-wood, chipped up about 25, 30 yards to about one and a half feet.

No. 18, hit driver in the water, so got a penalty there.  I hit my fourth shot to about five feet, just missed it.

THE MODERATOR:  What did you hit on your fourth shot?
GRACE PARK:  Wedge.

THE MODERATOR:  Questions.
Q.  Not the way you want to finish, but you're still in striking distance for tomorrow.  How do you feel about going into tomorrow?
GRACE PARK:  There's not much I can change out there as far as my golf game.  I hope there's some luck for me.  Coming down the stretch, I was hitting really good shots in, making solid strokes.  Just a lip out, on the edge...

I think starting 14 through 18, every one of them was makable, I had really good chances.  The ball just didn't find the hole.  It was one of those days where I'm doing everything I can, I'm doing it right; it's just not going in the hole.
Q.  Do you feel eventually if you give yourself enough chances, they will go in?
GRACE PARK:  I was doing it when I missed my putt on 14.  I said, "All right, 15."  Another one that went right over the edge.  16, just short of it.  17, a lip out.  I mean, I've been putting well.  I think I misread 18.

I don't know.  I mean, I tell myself that it's going to go in, but it didn't today.  Frustrating.
Q.  What happened on your drive there on 18?
GRACE PARK:  I just didn't hit my drive solid today.  Tempo was off a little bit.  Just pulled it.  It was a bad drive off the tee.
Q.  You have to be pleased week in, week out you're right there.
GRACE PARK:  Yeah, I'm very proud of myself for being this consistent.  You know, it was one of my goals to stay consistent week in and week out.  I'm getting there.

But still I guess there's a lot of work to be done.
Q.  What kind of challenge does the course present, with the weather today?
GRACE PARK:  I guess length really.  To me it's more of an advantage because I'm a high, long hitter.  I'm a high ball-striker so I carry it longer than most of the players.  I'm always 20, 30 yards ahead of my playing partners, have shorter irons in.

It didn't play much tougher.  The ball didn't fly as long as the last two days because the air was a little heavier.  But the greens were soft.  It actually played easier, I think, than the first two days because you're able to go right at the pin and you know that it's going to stick.
Q.  On 8 there, were you up against (inaudible)?  Your ball hit and stopped.
GRACE PARK:  Against those, yeah.  I tried to pick it up and drop it out there.
Q.  You were lucky to make four on that.
GRACE PARK:  Either way.  I could have taken a relief.  I would have been where I was on my third shot anyway.  The chip from there is pretty simple.
Q.  Knowing how crazy the weather could be, although we've been pretty lucky, were you trying to think, "I want to be in the lead in case something happens tomorrow"?
GRACE PARK:  My caddie Dave actually mentioned to me on the 17th hole that, "It looks like the weather might be really bad tomorrow.  Who knows what's going to happen, so let's make sure that we finish strong, be on the top of the leaderboard."

Unfortunately, that didn't work.  So I hope we play (laughter).  We better play.
Q.  There's a lot of strong players up there.  Annika has come on.  Se Ri.  A lot of players there.  Aree, you already felt with this year.  Are you developing that killer instinct for Sunday to go for it?  Do you feel confident going into a shoot-out in the final rounds with some of the world's best players?
GRACE PARK:  Yeah.  To be honest, I don't care who's up there.  I look at the leaderboard and I see the names, but I don't care whether it's Joe Shmoe or Annika Sorenstam.  I just know that someone or some people are right up there with me.  That's how I try to take it.

I'm not, you know, going to be intimidated.  I'm not going to get too far ahead of myself.  I keep it to myself.
Q.  How do you think Aree will hold up tomorrow, assuming she will have the lead?  She's been up there before, but this will be a little different, being the leader going into the last day.
GRACE PARK:  Now that she's 18 (laughter)...  Now that she's more mature, wiser, older, she'll handle it well.  I think she'll be fine.  She's an awesome player with a tremendous amount of talent.  You know, the more experience you get, the better you get at it.

It will be interesting what happens tomorrow.

THE MODERATOR:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT