CHICK-FIL-A CHARITY CHAMPIONSHIP
April 30, 2004
Grace Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Do you want to go over your score card first.
GRACE PARK:  Started on 10, doubled it.

THE MODERATOR:  What happened there?
GRACE PARK:  Hit it in the water on the left.  Barely in, but it was in.  Then I dropped it in the rough.  My club got caught.  Hit it in the bunker short of the green.  Blasted it out.  2-putted for a double.

THE MODERATOR:  How close were you when you putted?
GRACE PARK:  I was off the green.  It was probably like a 35-footer.

THE MODERATOR:  Then you birdied 13.
GRACE PARK:  Par 5, right?

THE MODERATOR:  Yes.
GRACE PARK:  Went for it.  Was just short left.  Chipped up, made like a 4-footer for birdie.

THE MODERATOR:  What did you hit for your second shot?
GRACE PARK:  3-wood.

THE MODERATOR:  Birdie on 1.
GRACE PARK:  Then 1.  I hit a wedge to about eight feet.  Made that one for birdie.

3, hit 9-iron about 15 feet.  Made that for birdie.

6, par 5, hit a bad drive.  Had to lay up.  Then I hit a 9-iron and made a 30-footer.

Then 7, went for it with a driver.  Just right of the green.  Chipped up.  It was like another 5-footer.

Then 8, I don't know what happened.  I hit a bad tee shot, 9-iron, then a bad chip, then a good putt, but it lipped out.

THE MODERATOR:  How far?
GRACE PARK:  Six feet, eight.

THE MODERATOR:  Not as good as yesterday, but you're one behind Aree going into the weekend.  Do you feel pretty good about where you stand?
GRACE PARK:  Yeah.  At this point I'm a little bit frustrated because I still can't get over my 8.  I missed my putt on 9, so I'm a little frustrated.

But other than two bad shots, I mean, there was no difference between yesterday and today.  Yesterday, putts fell in.  Today, just had a lot of lip-outs, right on the edge.  Obviously, my ball striking is good, my putting is good.  With a little luck, it will be really nice.
Q.  You've been playing so well that you've got to be confident going into the weekend you can handle the situation, no matter what anybody else does.  Is your confidence the main thing that's in your favor this weekend?
GRACE PARK:  You know, still confidence, it comes and goes.  It's believing in yourself.  I've been working very hard, haven't backed down since winning a month ago.  I've been working even harder so that I could win more.  You know, the work is paying off.

I like where I am - depending on what the afternoon players do.  But right there in contention is where I like to be rather than coming back from, you know, four or five strokes behind the leaders.  It's always nice to be up there.  I get a little more focused.  You know, adrenaline kicks in.  I always play better that way.
Q.  Obviously, you left a lot of shots out there.  You said you were a little bit frustrated.  Is that a positive you can take in or are you thinking you could have gone really low?
GRACE PARK:  It's always "could have, would have, should have."  But then it's past.  I'm learning to get over my past and stay present.

But, you know, I'm doing everything I'm supposed to do.  As I said, with a little more luck, my score can be really low.
Q.  How quickly did you get over the double on 10?  Can you put that out of your be mind right away, go on to the next shot, or are you upset for a hole or two?
GRACE PARK:  No, actually I was upset, but then it didn't bother my shots at all because it was No. 1.  You know, it's probably the hardest driving hole on the golf course.  Everything is so good with my game right now that that was like over.  Like yesterday, I had to take an unplayable out of a bunker.  I just got over it.  It's just one shot, throw it away, get on to the next.
Q.  Is that something that has come to your game in the last couple years?  Did it used to bother you more than it does now?
GRACE PARK:  Yeah, yeah.  Now I know that I can always get it back.  I still have good enough shots in my bag or in my game that I could come back with birdies and eagles.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
GRACE PARK:  I still do.  I'll never get over that.  I don't have to get mad as often as I did three years ago because I'm playing better.  It will still come.
Q.  Do you think the clouds or the weather had anything to do with it?  Did you feel rushed or pressured to get through faster?
GRACE PARK:  No, no.  The only difference between yesterday and today was that the air was a little heavier.  The balls don't fly as far.  I had my sweater on and off a few times out there.

Other than that, no.  Whatever happens happens.  We got lucky.

THE MODERATOR:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT