AVNET LPGA CLASSIC
April 28, 2011
Grace Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Grace Park into the interview room. Congratulations on your 5-under round today. Take me through your round today. What went really well for you?   
 GRACE PARK: Every thing. Obviously when you finish the round at 5-under, everything has to go pretty well.  
 I started out hitting my irons really close. Birdied the third hole; eagled the fourth, which was par-5, No. 13, so 3-under right there.   
 Everything was just easy and smooth today. Made a couple of mistakes, but overall in these windy conditions I stayed very consistent to the green and rolled in some putts, and birdied the last two holes to finish at 5-under.  
  
  Q. How are the conditions out there? I know it's been rainy and windy the last couple days. Is it better today?   
 GRACE PARK: I think it's perfect, obviously. It's suiting my game. It's windy, but it's not too bad. The greens are rolling beautifully. I love to putt on fast greens and hard greens.   
 It's playing very fair.  
  
  Q. I know in the past few years you dealt with some back issues. How are feeling now?   
 GRACE PARK: I actually had to withdraw from the Pro-Am yesterday because I started feeling a little funny Tuesday afternoon. But overall, my back's been better than it has been in the last five, six years.  
 I mean, I'm feeling really strong; I'm feeling really good.   
 MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. How good is that, to be able to have a round like that because of the back issues and you haven't been able to play as you would like?  
 GRACE PARK: It feels awesome. But more so, I want to say it's a relief. I'm obviously very, very happy, but I've been waiting for this round. I played three events early on, and I never knew what being rusty was.   
 After having two seasons out with surgeries, I was lucky. I was swinging just as well, putting just as well, just not putting the round, the shots together.   
 But today, you know -- for the past three weeks I played a lot of golf, and it seems to have helped.   
  
  Q. How does that feel, to have that come back again and to have that feeling and be able to control your game more like you had previously?  
 GRACE PARK: Yeah, I mean, it's nice. But more so, I'm very happy that even though my back, I had a little scare last couple days, I mean, my back is feeling good. I'm being able to practice, work out, staying strong.  
 I mean, overall it's a great feeling. If I can just keep my back solid, I think I will start putting in some low numbers.   
  
  Q. Is it tough to trust it again, to just mentally trust that your back is a going to be okay, or that doesn't weigh into it?  
 GRACE PARK: I can't say it's easy, but I'm just trusting. I just believe that it's going to be okay. As I said, I've had a couple surgeries. I was in rehab for several months.  
 My back is as strong as it's been in I don't know how many years, so I'm very optimistic.   
  
  Q. When you withdrew from the Pro-Am, did you do anything to get any treatment?  
 GRACE PARK: Yeah, I have a trainer that I started traveling with. She helps me with, you know, getting all the tightness out of my system. She's a masseuse; she's my trainer; she's my assistant; she's my manager. She's just a multi-task girl.   
 She's been helping me a lot with it. And Caroline and Rob in the trailer have been helping me. Lots of Advil, lots of ice. Same old, same old.   
  
  Q. Because of the injury and because of the rust, did you come to Mobile with any expectations, or just let's see how we play?  
 GRACE PARK: You know, definitely more expectations than I had starting the season back in March. I have three tournaments under my belt. I had three weeks to regroup, practice, and really focus on what I learned from those three weeks.   
 This tournament, coming into it I was very looking forward to it. This is a golf course that I'm very familiar with; played well on it. I love the golf course, so I've been looking forward to it.   
 Seems to be working, right?   
 MODERATOR: Thank you very much.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT