BMO FINANCIAL GROUP CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN
July 10, 2003
Grace Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR:  All right.  Grace, thanks for joining us.  34, 34, 68, two back right now, but you're in second place.  Tell us about your round, and then we'll take some questions.
GRACE PARK: It was one of the most easiest rounds I've played all year.  You don't want me to say it's boring, but it was boring, but boring is good on the golf course.  I hit a lot of fairways and greens, and only really made three or four putts, but no mistake, so I stayed at 4 under.

Q.  (Inaudible)?
GRACE PARK: Well, I drove the ball very well today.  As I said, it was one of the most easiest rounds because I hit it so well off the tee that in it was in the middle of the fairway almost every hole. 
My irons were okay, but because my tee shots were so goody, I got to hang in there.

Q.  (Inaudible)?
GRACE PARK: I worked very hard over the winter, and I was more determined to get better than ever, so I think hard work is paying off.

Q.  You were talking yesterday about the par 5s being  -- three of them at least being reachable.  How did you score on the par 5s today?
GRACE PARK: Not well.  In fact, I just rang my father, who is in Phoenix, to get my old 5-wood back to me hopefully before my tee time tomorrow.  But I eagled the 3rd hole, so that was good, so 3 par, an eagle.  I've got to improve on that part.

Q.  Is the first hole reachable?
GRACE PARK: I don't know.  I played the first hole twice and hit it in the right bunker, the ruff, both times, so I have no idea.  I don't think so.  Plus, the wind is in your face.

Q.  (Inaudible)?
GRACE PARK: It was wonderful.  I didn't expect to see so many people Thursday morning, but all week, everybody has been very cheerful and supportive.  It's great.
(Score card done.)

Q.  Do you like the golf course?
GRACE PARK: I do.  It's beautiful, beautiful trees.  Luckily, I wasn't in many of them, but the course is in great shape.
MODERATOR:  Okay.  Thank you, Grace. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT