MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY AIG
June 8, 2003
Grace Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR: All right.  We will do the score card and everything later.  I know you are disappointed, but you did shoot a 67 and put yourself in the playoff, so I am sure you are at least a little happy for that.
GRACE PARK: Yeah, but nobody remembers second.

Q.  Grace, you have to be happy with the way you were able to come back after being down, considering the elements. 
GRACE PARK:  Yes, I mean, I played very solid in the morning and in the afternoon today, and, you know, it was not easy out there, but I hung in there and, you know, close.

Q.  Can you talk about the playoff hole and what happened on the approach shot.
GRACE PARK: I had 187 to the green, and picked a 4-iron, and I knew that I had to hit a good one to get to the pin, and just tried to get a little too aggressive and chunked it, and it was  -- I ended up short by the bunker in the rough, and it was just plugged very deep. 
And, you know, I hit it very well out of there, you know, no spin, it just went, hit a good putt, but misread.

Q.  Did you think it was going to  -- how did you mis-read it?  What did you think it was going to do?
GRACE PARK: Well, it was a little bit right to left downhill, and I probably over-read it.  But, you know, maybe with the rain that we are just getting and the speed, it just didn't take the break as I thought it would.

Q.  Did you leave yourself more yardage coming into your drive?  Is that about where you wanted to drive the ball on the playoff hole?
GRACE PARK:  I was using a 3-wood off the tee, and that's  -- you know, unless I go a little left of where I was, I mean, I hit it to the center of the fairway.  Anything left is flirting with the rough and water, anything right is  -- I hit a good tee shot.

Q.  In the playoff, are you very aware that you are playing Annika Sorenstam, the best golfer in the game, or can you sort of block that out?
GRACE PARK:  I am aware that she is the best women's player, but I am playing my game, she is playing her game, you know.  If anything, I have nothing to lose, I am the one with the low score, you know, in the afternoon.

Q.  Grace, can you talk about how grueling it is to play 32 holes and then a playoff hole in addition to that?  How was the day for you?
GRACE PARK:  Well, it went pretty well, I mean, considering I was tied for seventh starting the day, and moved up to tied for first -- until the playoff.  You know, I will probably be tired once this is over, but it hasn't hit me yet.  I am fine.

Q.  Grace, at what point in the day did you first get the feeling "I have a chance to win"?
GRACE PARK:  Just all day, you know, I knew that if I could just keep my focus and get aggressive, I could be there.

Q.  Can you talk about the eagle you had.
GRACE PARK:  Yeah.  Eagle was nice.  I birdied 7, actually, to go to 5-under.  That felt good, but then I fell right back with a bogey on 8, birdie on 9, 3-putt on 10, eagle on 11.  So it was up and down.  But, you know, I was hitting good shots into the greens and made a great par save on 16, but just one shot short.

Q.  Can you tell me what you hit on your second shot on 11, your approach shot for the eagle?
GRACE PARK:  11, 3-wood.

Q.  For how far?
GRACE PARK:  It was 214 to the front.  I don't know where the pin was.

Q.  You say nobody remembers second, but, I mean, will you remember as a confidence builder the fact that you did come from way back today?
GRACE PARK:  Oh, yeah, I will always remember this.  This is a course that I have been playing for ten years now.  I played junior golf here, won as a junior, and I like this course, and this is the best finish in a major for me so far, so I will always remember this.  But you won't.  Nobody will.

Q.  How different is this course now that the rough is much more mature than it used to be?
GRACE PARK:  It's tough, but, you know, this week I managed to stay out of the rough pretty well. 

Q.  Do you get word during  -- like before the playoff, about the golfers having problems hitting a putt from where, like, you hit it on 18.  They have had problems all afternoon from that spot.
GRACE PARK: Oh, no, I don't hear it.

Q.  They don't tell you?
GRACE PARK: No.

Q.  Grace, before the tee shot on 8, I guess you were bothered by a cell phone ringing?
GRACE PARK:  Yeah.  It's okay.

Q.  You were bothered a couple times.
GRACE PARK: No, no, no.  It happens.  And I don't care for it  -- I don't care.

Q.  You mentioned the double bogey.  Obviously, that's a point where you can  -- any golfer can go either way.  What was your mind-set there and how did you manage to get over that?
GRACE PARK:  I just had to tell myself to get over it, that's it.  I mean, I still had 11 holes to play, and I was playing good golf, and I knew that if I got over it quick, then I would make another birdie, and I did. 

Q.  Were you watching the leader board today?  Did you know where you were?
GRACE PARK:  Oh, yeah, I was watching it all the way.

Q.  How much different  -- is there a different feel to playing in a major than playing in a regular weekly tournament?  I mean, do you want a tournament like this more than any others?
GRACE PARK:  I have started to.  You know, first couple of years out here, I just try to play week by week, didn't really know the importance of the majors, but this week definitely got me.

Q.  Will you take a positive from this week into  -- are you playing next week?
GRACE PARK:  I am playing next two weeks.

Q.  Will you take a positive from this week?
GRACE PARK:  Oh, yeah, I am feeling great, I played very well under tough conditions on a tough golf course, and, you know, my game is good.  I will just be tired tomorrow and the day after maybe.

Q.  Will you think differently about yourself when you do win a major?
GRACE PARK:  Maybe.  I will tell you when I do win a major.

Q.  You have obviously had a good year.  What do you think maybe that  -- what's making you better or more consistent this year, something you did in the off-season, mentally or  --
GRACE PARK:  First of all, I am working harder than ever.  You know, that's helping.  But I have started to enjoy my life out on Tour.  First couple years was a struggle, you know, I wasn't happy out here, wasn't happy when I was home, you know, was kind of stuck.  I didn't know where I belonged.  But, you know, after three years, I learned that this is where I belong, and having fun, definitely, helps me to play better.

Q.  How many times did you win here as a junior?  Was it three or four?
GRACE PARK:  He said four.

Q.  You were here.  You should remember that.
GRACE PARK:  I should.  I won so many as a junior I can't remember.

Q.  How was that course out there compared to what you remember as a junior?
GRACE PARK:  Well, just a little bit longer.  The greens are a little faster and the rough is a little thicker and longer.  That's about it. 

Q.  Do you think, especially after you made the birdie on 17, that you let something get away by only making par on 16?
GRACE PARK:  Yeah, but I am learning to get over the past.  You know, I can't change the past.  I knew that I had 18 to play and had to move on.

Q.  Was the shot into 17 one of your best shots of the day?
GRACE PARK: Yeah, that was pretty good, but I think the putt on 16 for par was more important because it got me, you know, to hang in there. 

Q.  Is that one of the secrets to being out here, knowing that you can't change the shots you have already hit, putting them behind?
GRACE PARK:  Sure.  No, it's just, you know, getting used  -- not only the golfing part, but traveling, you know, living out of a suitcase, hotels, just the whole package.  I am just finally getting used to the life on Tour and starting to take it as it is.

Q.  Grace, as the round went on, were you aware of what Annika was doing at all?
GRACE PARK:  Uh-huh, I was watching the score board.

Q.  You were? 
MODERATOR: Cover your score card real quick.
(Score card.)  

MODERATOR: Any more questions for Grace? 
Q. Grace, because it was Annika coming up behind you, did it alter your thinking at all?  Did you go into the hole knowing you have to make birdie or par is not good enough.
GRACE PARK: Well, I wanted to make birdie, but 18 is a tough hole, but in the regulation, too, I hit a 6-iron and chunked it a little bit to the left, didn't hit it very well, and I got my par, and I wasn't really thinking what she was going to do, I was just in control of what I was doing.

Q.  Grace, do you feel right now that your turn to win a major is getting close?
GRACE PARK:  Well, yeah, I would say so.  I mean, this is definitely the closest I have been, and I have got many more chances.  Maybe I will get there.

MODERATOR: Anything else? 
Q. Grace, all you hear about like these last couple weeks is Annika, Annika, Annika.  Does it make you feel good that you had a real good round to be right there with her step-for-step, all the way.
GRACE PARK:  Yeah, I am proud of myself today, I played very well.  I am a little disappointed that I didn't play well in the playoff, but, you know, with Annika, I am , to be honest, quite jealous.  You know, she is the Number 1 player in the world, she deserves all the attention, and, you know, I just wish I was number 1, she is getting all the attention.

Q.  Is it tough to see her dancing around the green after she wins another tournament?
GRACE PARK:  I have seen it many times.

Q.  That's what I mean.
GRACE PARK:  It just sucked that it wasn't me dancing.

Q.  Do you socialize with Annika?
GRACE PARK:  Well, not much.  You know, we say hi, good playing, how are you, but just like many other players.

MODERATOR: All right.  Thank you very much, Grace. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT