MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY AIG
June 5, 2003
Grace Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.  Grace, thank you for coming in.  Great round today.  It was a little up and down, but you had a great eagle, so if you want to talk about how the course was and how you played. 
GRACE PARK:  The course was wet and soggy.  The greens are starting to get very bumpy and very slick around the hole, horrible foot marks.  It's tough out there.  My legs are tired from walking on the wet grass all day. 

Q.  Grace, obviously you had success on this golf course going back to your teenage years.  Is it good to be back here and do you use anything you learned back then to play the course now?
GRACE PARK:  The course plays about 3 -, 400 yards longer and 5, 6 strokes tougher than back in the junior days, but I have been coming to this course for ten years now, this year, and this was always one of my favorite golf courses, and the holes set up really well for me out here. 
Unfortunately, I haven't played very well since I turned pro, but I played well today. 

Q.  Tell us about your eagle. 
GRACE PARK:  Oh, hit a really good drive and I had 136 to the hole.  Wind was blowing a little bit right to left, probably hurting a touch.  Just got an 8-iron, choked down a little bit, and punched it and the wind kind of took it, hit it about four feet right and just sucked it into the hole. 

Q.  What happened on the front-nine to get you down, and then you came back a little bit?  What was going on?
GRACE PARK:  Not much.  Missed  -- when you miss a fairway here, it's impossible to get to the green, so all you have to do  -- or for me today, I just had to punch it out to the front and chip it up to save par. 
And I actually, you know, hit a  -- missed a couple fairways, hit good shots, hit good chip shots to about 4 or 5 feet and just missed those.  As I said, there  -- I don't know if that was me or the greens.  It's very slick and just nerve-wracking.

Q.  How do you feel you have been playing since Kingsmill?
GRACE PARK:  I only played two events since Kingsmill, and  -- fine.  I mean, I didn't win, but  -- I didn't play all that great, but didn't play bad, either.  My game is still improving and I am still working hard, and it's already been over a month since I won.  Time to do it again.


Q.  Were putting misses the cause of indentions on the green?
GRACE PARK:  Yeah, I am going to blame it on the greens, because it can't be me.  I did everything so perfect, can't be me. 

Q.  Grace, do you think there will be a difference for the players that will be teeing off in the afternoon because the course is getting dry?
GRACE PARK:  If anything, on the greens.  Around the holes it's  -- as I said, it's tough.  You are seeing a lot of spike marks and foot marks and very bumpy, and it's getting fast, and it's not going to be easy.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT