ASAHI RYOKUKEN INTERNATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 16, 2002
Grace Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 DEBBIE EARECKSON:  Can you go over your score card for us.
GRACE PARK:  Bogey on 3, and I 3-putted.  So I missed like a two and a half -- three-footer for par.
I birdied -- I bogeyed 3.  I birdied 6, 7 and 9.
6, par-5, I was just left of the green, and I just 2-putted for birdie.
The next hole I hit my 9-iron to a foot and a half, tapped it in for birdie.
9, hit my L-wedge to about 15 feet -- 20 feet, made a downhill putt for birdie.
14, hit my wedge to about 8 feet, made that for birdie.
The next one I chipped up almost an eagle, just a tap-in for a birdie.
And then 18, hit a 7-iron short and missed my chip shot and missed my putt, so bogey. 
DEBBIE EARECKSON:  Tell us about your round.  I know it was slow, but other than starting late.
GRACE PARK:  It was really, really slow.  And it was really frustrating because you have a shot in the middle of the fairway, or a putt, and it's standing and waiting and it got hard on me.  And I started to feel tired around the 14th hole and I was ready to be done. 
But the course is playing tough out there with the hard greens, fast, the ball is -- it got drier as the day went on.  And it was harder and harder to stop the ball on the green and just making the club selection was really difficult.  But I played decent.  I played good. 

Q.   Did the frustrating part have anything to do with the bogey on 18?
GRACE PARK:  No.  You know what?  I wish I could say that.  But it was -- it was a decent shot into the green.  And 18 is just such a tough hole, tough pin, and it was just my mistake.  I'm not going to blame my bad shot on something else.  Overall I was tired.

Q.   Considering the toughness of the course, how would you rate your score and Laura Davies' score?
GRACE PARK:  She's two shots lower than my score.  That's about it.  Obviously she played great.  It's not easy out there and maybe her distance helped.  Having shorter irons into the green made it easier to stop than someone who hits short.  They have woods into the green.  They're never going to stop the ball.

Q.   Laura said when she came in that normally if she'd gone out and shot a 5-under at, say, another tournament, that might barely be enough to get in the top 10 the first day.  So she said that this 5-under is considerably better than some 5-unders.  Would you say the same about yours?
GRACE PARK:  Oh, yeah, look at the score.  I've shot 69 -- I shot 69 last week and I wasn't even top 15.  And this week I'm second.  So, you know, it says a lot about this course and the toughness of it.

Q.   Did you do anything to adjust your game coming into this course?
GRACE PARK:  You know, honestly I played yesterday in the Pro-Am and I didn't see the greens this firm.  I guess maybe because you had so much rain earlier in the week that it still wasn't hard.  But today when I got out there, from the first hole I noticed it bouncing on the green and just firming up more and more.  And that was really difficult to adjust during one day of round.

Q.   Did you play here last year?
GRACE PARK:  I played last year.

Q.   I meant to ask Laura and didn't, but a lot of the players who played earlier and talked about how difficult it was said that they came in here knowing it was kind of difficult.  Laura came in having not played it before.  Normally you like to play the place for the experience, but is it a little bit of an edge not for her to have that anticipation of how difficult it might be?
GRACE PARK:  Well, to me, personally, the way I'm playing right now is so much different from how I was playing last year.  And I personally like tough courses and I like challenges.  And I would prefer to play a course like this than somewhere that's flat and straight and nothing to see.  And I like shooting 3-under and being top two.  So, no complaints.

Q.   What if they don't put water on the green?
GRACE PARK:  They better, because I mean just on 17 I hit an 8-iron to the front of the green and released 17 yards.  I think that's pretty ridiculous.  The player that I played with had no chance of getting that ball on the green.  She had a wood in.

Q.   Majors and tournaments on courses like that, the better players like it better because it separates the field.  You're not going to have a fluke winner.  You and Laura in the top players in the world are at the top of the list.  Is that pretty much how you feel about it?
GRACE PARK:  I like it because I don't have to shoot 20-under to win.  Courses like this, you have to keep your focus and hit decent shots and just not make mistakes.  And when you do, I think you need to be paid for it.  You hit a bad shot, you're going to shoot bad, you know.  It's not like you hit a bad shot, "Oh, I can still make par."

Q.   Some of the players were talking about how difficult the pin positions were for a Thursday.  When you combine that with the firmness of the greens, how close is that to being unfair?
GRACE PARK:  I think there were some tough pins out there, but I also think there were some fair pins out there.  I think that there are going to be tougher pins tomorrow and on the weekend, and I am a little bit worried but just keep my fingers crossed and hope that I'm on the right side of the green.






End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT