TYCO/ADT CHAMPIONSHIP
November 15, 2001
Grace Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GRACE PARK:  Bogey on the 1st hole.  I missed the green, chipped up to about two feet, missed the putt for par.  Then on 3 -- I birdied 3, 4 and 5.  On the 3rd hole, I hit my second shot, 7-wood, to the right fringe and 2-putted for birdie.  4, I hit I think a wedge to about 15 feet and made the putt for birdie.  5, hit 6-iron to about five feet, made the putt.  Birdied 9.  Hit a sand wedge to six feet, made the putt.  10, birdied.  Hit 7-iron to about four feet, made the putt.  Birdied 15.  Hit 7-wood on the green and 2-putted for birdie.  16, I hit 3-putted.  18, I bogeyed from the left bunker, green side, left bunker, didn't get up and down.  
 
Q.  Do you feel good about your round or mad about the way it ended?
 
GRACE PARK:  You know, I feel good, but I'm mad because I finished with two bogeys.  It sucks (laughter).  
 
Q.  I would have been a wreck after I missed the 2-putter for par on the 1st hole. 
 
GRACE PARK:  I know.  How upsetting.  You know, sometimes you get the worst ones out of you on the 1st hole.  That's a way to kind of calm myself down.  
 
Q.  I was reading that you're feeling better now than you were earlier in the year after taking a break.  Can you talk about maybe what you were doing wrong before, what you think you're doing right now? 
 
GRACE PARK:  Well, I'm swinging better, which makes me feel better, which helps my game.  I think overall I'm more relaxed now.  I'm more matured (laughter).  I don't know, just I don't grind as much as I used to.  I learned that, you know, no matter how much I work, when it's not there, it's not there.  You just have to be patient.  I'm starting to learn that, so... 
 
Q.  How did you come to this new realization?
 
GRACE PARK:  It was a slow process because I got really frustrated and angry on the golf course.  I said, "I'm going to stop that."  I stopped it one day.  It just happened.  It clicked.  Actually, I don't know.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible)? 
 
GRACE PARK:  I had two weeks off I think at the end of August.  I got my swing back together.  When I started to feel better about my swing, everything just kind of came together.  
 
Q.  You said you just decided one day.  Was it actually one day, one round?
 
GRACE PARK:  I kept telling myself, "I'm going to stop it for today.  I'm going to stop it today."  It took a while.  I don't get frustrated anymore.  Maybe I care less than I used to.  Whatever it is, I'm, you know, enjoying myself more than I've ever done.  
 
Q.  How did that anger manifest itself?  Were you outwardly emotional, hold it in? 
 
GRACE PARK:  No, I couldn't hold it, so it was bad (laughter).  I just let it all out.  You know, you learn from your mistakes.  Anger doesn't help to play well.  It doesn't help you to play better.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible) are you upset to see her up there?  Tired of seeing her up there?
 
GRACE PARK:  Yeah, make a bogey or something.  Gosh, does she ever make a bogey (laughter)?  It's awesome what she's doing.  I really admire her.  Awesome play, solid all year long.  I guess she has that confidence.  
 
Q.  They talk about Colin Montgomerie (inaudible).  Do you guys ever feel that way when you see Annika get off to a good start?
 
GRACE PARK:  I don't think that way.  You know, it's golf.  We're all professionals.  We're all at the same level.  Obviously, she's an awesome player.  That doesn't mean we don't have the  -- that doesn't mean the rest of us don't have a chance to, you know, play better.  
 
Q.  Did you play any Florida events last year, earlier this year?
 
GRACE PARK:  I played all three. 
 
Q.  Kind of sad to see those go?
 
GRACE PARK:  Yeah.  Plus I won at Doral in January, so... I really liked all three courses.  In a way, I kind of like it because I get January off.  I can have some time off - and February, yeah. 
 
Q.  Are you the only Korean player (inaudible)?
 
GRACE PARK:  Well, Se Ri.  
 
Q.  You didn't (inaudible)?
 
GRACE PARK:  Se Ri was here, but her father was ill.  Mi Hyun was never going to come.  Me, I never had that thought.  I was coming if I got in.  I wanted to get in.  I was out of Top 30 a few months ago.  I was like, "I have to get in."  
 
Q.  Annika talked about Karrie motivating her, kind of vice versa.  As a young player looking to get (inaudible), are you motivated by them or what they do?
 
GRACE PARK:  Honestly, I motivate myself to do things.  Obviously, I want to play as well as they do, win as many as they have.  But, you know, I'm me.  I have to do what I have to do.  I guess that's me.  
 
Q.  If you had to assess what you've done (inaudible), what kind of grade would you give yourself?
 
GRACE PARK:  Well, A is good.  I guess I'll give myself B for trying because I tried hard.  I really tried hard.  I practiced hard.  The results weren't there, but... 
 
Q.  What would you have to do to get an A? 
 
GRACE PARK:  Score better (laughter).  Win more.  No, I think I'm getting there.  I know I'll play well.  It's just that I have to, you know, mentally be there, slowly take my time, I guess.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT