KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 3, 2010
Grace Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Great round, Grace.   
 GRACE PARK: Thank you.  
  
  Q. Walk us through your round a little bit.   
 GRACE PARK: Yeah, I had a great start, birdied the first couple of holes, bogeyed 3, but birdied 5 and 6 again and 9, so I was right at the start 4-under through nine holes.   
 And then had a good opportunity on 10, missed a little 5-footer for birdie, but birdied 11.   
 And then the back side was a little bit tougher. I didn't get to hit it as close as I would have liked. Still had a couple of great runs at it, couple lip-outs, managed to shoot even par on the back for 4-under.  
  
  Q. This must do wonders for your overall confidence, like, okay, now I'm back; right?  
 GRACE PARK: Yeah. Yeah. It definitely feels great. It's been a while since I shot 68 in a competitive round, so it definitely feels better. I wish I could have finished stronger, attacked the back side a little bit more, but I think still I moved up quite a bit.   
  
  Q. When was the last time you can remember shooting a 68 or better in a competitive?  
 GRACE PARK: I think I shot once last year, but I only played two tournaments, two or three. So at least a year.   
  
  Q. But to do it in a major, too, though.   
 GRACE PARK: Yeah. It feels great. Third round; definitely making the cut yesterday, I felt definitely freer. And I've been struggling with some back pains the last few days, but today it definitely felt better.  
  
  Q. Overall how has your health come back?  
 GRACE PARK: I'm very healthy. The back of mine comes and goes. I have golfer's back, so as long as I keep playing golf, it'll be there.  
  
  Q. You had that hip problem, too.   
 GRACE PARK: I had hip surgery, but that's perfect. I have no issue with it.  
  
  Q. Can you just talk about kind of what you've gone through the last few years? Where you are now and where you want to be?  
 GRACE PARK: Well, definitely it was a struggle the last few years. I call it hitting rock bottom in my career.   
 You know, I struggled for a few years, but also had some injuries, got that taken care of.   
 I feel great physically and mentally. I feel fresh. You know, I think with the surgery last year taking a year off was great for mental health as well as physical.   
 So I'm feeling very, very positive, and I feel like my game is still right there.   
 You know, I've always been a great player. It never went. I just lost it for a little bit, but I believe I can get it back.  
  
  Q. Do you have the desire to be a major champion again, an elite player again?  
 GRACE PARK: Oh, definitely, more than ever before. You know, I think when I was younger, playing competitive rounds and tournaments were just natural to me. I didn't really think about it. I didn't really want it. I just did it out of habit almost, since I was 10, 11 years old.   
 But after losing that for a few years, like I said, you know, I started having that crave again, that hunger and really missing what I had.   
 You know, I think I really took it for granted back in the days, but wanting it and just loving the game of golf definitely helps.  
  
  Q. Are you playing now because you want to you feel like?  
 GRACE PARK: Yeah. Yeah. Definitely. I'm having fun. I think I was burned out. I'm not ashamed of it. I played tournaments since I was 10 years old, never really had a break. Went from junior, amateur to pro, never had a break. And so I think after a few years of slough, they call it, but especially last year taking it completely away, didn't touch clubs for 10 months, and that was great. That was the best thing I could have ever done for myself.  
  
  Q. What did you do during those 10 months off?  
 GRACE PARK: Everything but golf. I spent a lot of time at rehab after the surgery, but just I was home with my family. I didn't have to pack every weekend to travel. I didn't fly once last year when I was home. So I loved it. I was, you know, with my folks, seeing my friends, just having fun.  
  
  Q. How close is your game to getting it back to where you were before?  
 GRACE PARK: I'm getting there. I started working back with my old teacher from college days trying to get my swing back.   
 I feel very close, even this week I had some great, great shots that I hadn't hit in six, seven eight years, but it's work in progress. As long as my health is good, I know I'll get there soon.   
  
  Q. Are you going back to school also?  
 GRACE PARK: I've always been sort of been in school. I'm on my way to getting a master's in sports education in Korea. I have one more semester that I just have to take off to -- yeah, so I attended classes last year actually, fall semester.  
  
  Q. Online or -- do you spend most of your off time in Korea?  
 GRACE PARK: Yeah. I spend all of it in Korea.  
  
  Q. And where are you living in the States?  
 GRACE PARK: Arizona.  
  
  Q. And your old coach?  
 GRACE PARK: Mike Labauve.   
  
  Q. Can you describe one of those, was there a shot today that you hit that you thought, my goodness, I haven't hit a shot like that?  
 GRACE PARK: Yeah. I hit a few of those. My 7-iron into the fifth hole, hit like hundred and -- I wanted to carry 158, and I just aimed a little left and just wanted to hit a higher cut, and as soon as I hit it, I was like, wow, I honestly don't think I've hit that shot in a long time.  
 And also on the 9th hole I just had a 9-iron in, but I wanted to have a little just high cut in there as well and did it perfect. Both shots knocked it to five feet and made them for birdie. And you know, I mean they really felt good.   
  
  Q. Former champions are welcomed, always welcomed.   
 GRACE PARK: Yeah. Yeah. I love the fans here, and the volunteers, I think they're like my biggest fans. They are so gracious and they're so supportive and welcoming, and I know a handful of them and I'm always getting hugs and cheers, and the fans, too. I love it.  
  
  Q. Does it feel good to see your plaque there?  
 GRACE PARK: It does it. It does. Gives me nice confidence, it gives me a little boost. Gives me hunger again, want another name out there.  
  
  Q. How are the feelings after a good round today different than they were before?  
 GRACE PARK: I appreciate it, and I give myself credit for all the hard work that I did in the past, I was like, okay, another good round, whatever.   
 But right now I'm taking it day by day, tournament by tournament and really enjoying what I'm doing, and actually, you know, giving myself a little pat for playing well.   
  
  Q. What advice would you give to Jennifer Song who's just beginning the odyssey that you're talking about? She probably feels that way, that another good round is just another good round?  
 GRACE PARK: Yeah. Yeah. I'm sure a lot of younger players feel that. I assure you that they feel that.   
 But you know, make sure you enjoy what you're doing. Don't get burned out. Golf is wonderful, but if you're forced to do it, you're going to get burned out. Appreciate your talent and the fact that you're able to play.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT