FRANKLIN AMERICAN MORTGAGE CHAMPIONSHIP
May 4, 2006
Grace Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DANA GRASSRHODE:  Thanks again for coming in.  You had a 65 today.  Just talk about your round a little bit, it was a great round.
GRACE PARK:  66; 65 tomorrow.  It was nice to finally put a good round together.  I think the last time I shot 66 was the opening round at Turtle Bay, the first tournament of the year.  So I'm very happy and looking forward to the weekend.

DANA GRASSRHODE:  Let's go over your score card stating with your birdie on 4.
GRACE PARK:  I hit a gap wedge to three feet.

5, I hit an 8 iron to about six feet from 138.

8, hit 9 iron to 15 feet.

9, I hit 7 iron to about eight feet for birdie, 155.

11, I hit it in the bunker and I missed a 3 footer for par.  I hit a sand wedge out, a really good bunker shot.

I hit 4 iron off the tee on 12, about 192, to about eight feet.

14, gap wedge from 100 yards to three feet.
Q.  How do you feel?
GRACE PARK:  My back is good.  My shoulder is bothering me, though.  I think my shoulder is more stressed.
Q.  Inaudible?
GRACE PARK:  I really just decided to throw last year out.  My back injury, everything all started because of the injury.

This year, it's been frustrating, but then I feel like it's still early in the season.  I can turn it around and I just need to get some confidence back.  I'm just not being too greedy at this moment.  I'm just trying to get a run going, get some confidence back and some momentum and go from there.
Q.  How helpful can a round like today be, especially if weather maybe plays well with your schedule, tee times the next couple of days?
GRACE PARK:  I'm glad that I was on the good time, first of all.  I feel like the last year and a half, I always got stuck in the back where there was delays.  Maybe this is a good sign that everything is coming together.  I'm getting lots of good tee times and I've got some lucky rolls, bounces.  Taking it all positive.
Q.  With the course being this wet, you're a pretty good high ball hitter, so does the course being wet maybe play into your game a little more?
GRACE PARK:  Yeah, I think if it's wet, it definitely is an advantage to me because I do carry the ball far and long.  Although, my tee shot was the worst part of my game today.

But not only that, but because I hit it high, it's easy for me to control distance with my irons, also.  So I think that was definitely helpful.

You know, one of the reasons that I like coming here is the fairways are generous.  They are wide.  You know, it's a confidence builder for me, and I felt like that was crucial.
Q.  What's wrong with your driver?  Was today just an off day driving?
GRACE PARK:  Yeah, just working with a few different drivers.  I'll have my old driver back in play tomorrow.
Q.  What's up with your shoulders, or shoulder, or shoulders?
GRACE PARK:  Stress.  Just cramped up.  Nothing major.  I think every golfer has this problem.
Q.  Which shoulder?
GRACE PARK:  Left and right.
Q.  Is it just exercise you have to do for it?
GRACE PARK:  Yeah, I've been pretty committed to my exercises and my stretches before and after each round.  But it's something that I don't know when it's going to come back.  It could come back tonight or tomorrow.  I'm just keeping my fingers crossed doing all I can.
Q.  Some golfers have really stepped up I didn't remember weight training program to try to hit the ball longer.  You've always been able to hit the ball very long, especially for your size.  What do you work out for when you work out?
GRACE PARK:  I do a lot of balance work, a lot of core, a lot of    one of the reasons that my back is bad is that my hip flexors are week.  So it's a matter of legwork and I do speed work, too, because I want to keep up with what I have.  I won't be able to hit it this long forever.

DANA GRASSRHODE:  Thank you, Grace.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT