ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 29, 2011
Markus Brier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Tell us about the magic?  
 MARKUS BRIER: Yeah, played solid and holed a good putt from like six metres on the 10th was my first one and hit it close on 12. Played solid.  
 It was a bit more difficult on the outward nine. Then I had a little mistake on 16. Hit it in the fairway bunker for double-bogey but I still felt okay. I played nine par, and then I had a good birdie on 18. Drove it just 20 yards just short of the green and putted it up.  
 From there, suddenly it got from good to best, and hit the flag on 1, actually. Hit the flag and it dropped down like two inches. I was lucky. And then yeah, I hit a few good shots on 2, maybe 15 feet.   
 And then 4, hit it to six feet. On the green in two on 5. So I hit the ball really good and hit a lot of good iron shots. So I really got it close sometimes.   
  
  Q. When you start a day like that on 10, do you go, it's going to be a nice day?  
 MARKUS BRIER: When we were on 10, it was still nice, because it wasn't blowing then. It only picked up when we were like 12, 13, it started to pick up and then like 14 played quite long actually.   
 But yeah, as long as -- on these days, you have to hit the ball solid because then it stays where you want it. Fortunately, I hit only a couple of bad shots. Yeah, the crucial putts, hit a good one on 9. Hit it like five meters past the pin. So everything was working together.   
  
  Q. Good week to have a good week, isn't it.   
 MARKUS BRIER: It's a very good week. Very good, especially when you are here on an invite. That's a double bonus I would say. But it's only the first day.   
 So it's a very good first day, but I'm happy to be here on an invite to be here at all. And thanks to Johann. And then we'll go on from there. It's still three days to go, but as long as you are on the leaderboard, you have to be happy.  
  
  Q. Do you think about cards and positions?   
 MARKUS BRIER: I'm still looking to make enough money to make my card. It's the last big week for me, so if I can make everything work here, it's nice. So it makes the rest of the season easier.  
  
  Q. Do you have a number in mind?  
 MARKUS BRIER: Roughly, but I said you have to have 250 to really be guaranteed, because you never know what happens. Probably it's less, or very likely it's less but I want to have 250 to just sit back and to enjoy. But I think 250 is the number.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT