COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
February 6, 2011
Markus Brier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MARKUS BRIER: We had very difficult start, and the front nine, my short game wasn't where it should have been, and I always had chances for par, missed 10-footers or eight footers for par, and in that wind, you can't do that, because you're not going to hit a lot of fairways, so the back nine were good. I made two birdies and so third place is not bad.

 Q. I take it you're proud of yourself, the way you held things together and made those gains near the end?
 MARKUS BRIER: Yeah, that was good. After three holes I was 8-over and I got it back and it was not too easy in the wind, and so especially after a short missed putt on 10, that really I had to get myself going again, but my game is there, and I'm still confident with my swing and at the end I holed two putts, as well.

 Q. The bigger picture, you're in Dubai next week. 
 MARKUS BRIER: That's very important thing, thanks to Qatar here, I got the invite, so I'm really thankful for that invite because it gets me to Dubai, which is a great week. And hopefully I can do some more. 

 Q. And the wider picture, so much closer to your card with the money that's on offer here in Doha?
 MARKUS BRIER: I haven't even looked what kind of money, but definitely, this is always good, and we are early in the season, so it's starting better than last year, definitely. 

 Q. I have to ask you about the man who won because you played alongside him all day. Impressive, isn't it?
 MARKUS BRIER: He was so steady. That was not really a big chance for us. Whenever he had a little trouble, he just up-and-downed it and the rest was solid, he got it on the green and fairway and there wasn't much to do for us.

 Q. You mentioned the wind here, so that kind of performance without dropping a shot in these elements?
 MARKUS BRIER: It's unbelievable. Today because even you're going to miss some fairways, and he managed to get around and just played really solid. The back nine, it looked like just a walk in the park for him. I don't know if it was in his head but I think he hit every fairway, every green and just looked really, really good to watch.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT