COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
February 5, 2011
Markus Brier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You can take a lot of positives from that today, can't you?  
 MARKUS BRIER: Yeah, it was a lot of good things, except the par 5s which I had two bogeys and two pars, which is not normally what you want to have. But the rest was really good.  
 I hit a few really good shots and really good putts. Still up there. Not in the lead but no, the rest was pretty good, and so I'm looking forward to tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Does that leave a sour taste or are you just positive that you can fix things anyway?  
 MARKUS BRIER: Yeah, I mean, obviously when you bogey the last, it's never nice. But I just had a really bad shot and deserved the bad lie there, so I had no chance going for three. But it happens, and the rest was good.   
 I made a few crunch putts at the end, especially 16, 17 was good. Yeah, I got a bit lazy with my shots at the end, but I managed to keep my score good, and just one shot back is nothing.  
  
  Q. It seemed an odd kind of day where the wind was so much calmer than it has been for two days, and yet the scoring up there, bar a couple of 66s, was not quite as prolific.   
 MARKUS BRIER: Yeah, I think they are starting with the pins now a little bit and the greens are firming up a little bit. So that makes it a bit tougher. Like on the 18th was definitely a harder pin than the other days.   
 And also, the greens, it's harder to get to the pins some holes, but yeah, I mean, I don't know why. Actually it was probably easier than yesterday. But the pins were a bit harder.  
  
  Q. And your control was superb apart from one or two exemptions, wasn't it?  
 MARKUS BRIER: Yeah, I hit a few really wayward shots, like on 1, 17 and 18. But I'm recovering good, and the rest was good. I hit a few really good shots, and I holed the birdie putts, a decent length, not the monster putts I holed yet. But the short irons are still okay.  
  
  Q. You do look like you're enjoying it, which you should.   
 MARKUS BRIER: Yeah, I can only do it round per round, and whatever comes, comes, and I'll take it. I'm going to enjoy it tomorrow and try to stay happy.  
  
  Q. You know what it's like some, people get into the position, and their demeanor changes; yours is nice and controlled and assured.   
 MARKUS BRIER: Yeah, that's what we always say. If you hit a bad shot and end up in a bad lie, you can't change it anyway, so you just have to work from there.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT