BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 25, 2010
Markus Brier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Two rounds of 67, 10-under par and you're nicely placed now for the weekend?
 MARKUS BRIER: Yeah, it looks good so far. Today was a good start. I made a few birdies in the beginning and a little slower on the back but the eagle made up for everything. I haven't made a bogey so far in the tournament. I think that's the key. 

 Q. That was some finish, an eagle at the 18?
 MARKUS BRIER: Actually the putt, I thought it's going to miss right but it was so slow it died in, and perfect for the 18th. It was nice because I had a few chances on the back nine, but that's how it evens out and I'm happy I holed a few good putts today.

 Q. And you had the leader in your sights quite literally playing with Pablo Larrazábal today?
 MARKUS BRIER: Yeah, he was playing nice, he had a few good chances and he made it up at the end. He birdied three of the last four. He was playing solid, as well, he didn't have a bogey, as well. It was a good pairing. James was a bit up-and-down but I hope he makes it, as well. 

 Q. Now you're not the only Austrian winner anymore, or you on The European Tour?
 MARKUS BRIER: Yeah, it's very good. Martin played really nicely the last three weeks and won in Austria The Challenge Tour event and again at St. Omer. He had his card twice already, so I hope it gives him the confidence to keep it for longer. I made my Tour card over 30, as well, so good things to come for him.

 Q. You led the way and I think Martin has said that for Austrian golf. How hard has it been to establish yourself in Austrian in a golfing way?
 MARKUS BRIER: When I started it was really small and then slowly it's growing, and until 2006 when I won, it got a bit bigger. Now a lot of guys are on The Challenge Tour, so the base is a bit better now, but it takes them a few years to get on Tour and establish on Tour. We had one guy on Tour the last five years, so it's good that we see there's a growth in the game. 
 It will take another ten years until we are like, I don't know, Germany or France and we have more players.

 Q. So Martin wins on The Challenge Tour and then on The European Tour, it's your turn now, isn't it? 
 MARKUS BRIER: Yeah, sounds good to me. I didn't have a great season so far yet. I feel really bad and the last three weeks were okay, so the game is coming back. The scores are coming back, actually. The game is not much different. It's just holing a few putts and making a few saves and that's the difference and I hope I keep on this weekend and for the next weeks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT