THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2007
Markus Brier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Well, that was a terrific round, Markus.  You must be absolutely thrilled with it. 
 MARKUS BRIER:  Yeah, very much.  After the start, it was adventurous after the first holes, but I tried to settle things down.  And I holed a very good putt on 9 that actually made my round going.  I hit a good iron on 11 and then kept it together.  I didn't make any mistakes anymore, and especially on the finish.  I scrambled a bit, but that's what you need to make a round like this. 

 Q.  You're having a great couple of years, because you won your home Open, the Austrian Open, in 2006.  You've already won in China this year.  Why is your form suddenly so good? 
 MARKUS BRIER:  I think it's a mental thing.  I'm a bit more quiet, not as nervous.  And I remember when I -- my first Open when I came down to the 18th, the legs are shaking.  This year I felt more comfortable, also because I know the course and the area.  So it's just a learning process, and for me maybe it takes a bit longer to learn these things, but I think it's mainly on the mental side. 

 Q.  What's it like carrying a country's golfing hopes?  I don't think it's being unkind that Austria is not exactly a hotbed for golf, is it? 
 MARKUS BRIER:  Not yet, I hope.  Obviously it's the other guys, it's tough for them to get on Tour.  On the course I just play for myself and then afterwards I think about all the other things that I can do for golf in Austria.  But you have to play for yourself and play your own shots, and that's what I learned, as well. 

 Q.  When you were growing up didn't you want to be Franz Klammer rather than a golfer? 
 MARKUS BRIER:  No, I grew up in Vienna, which isn't the skiing part of Austria.  We don't have any big mountains or anything.  Obviously he's a hero.  I know him quite well.  He plays golf quite well.  He played here in Carnoustie, as well.  He's one of the obviously most well-known sportsmen in Austria.  But skiing was never really my talent. 

 Q.  So you've got three days to go here.  Do you feel comfortable in this environment?  Are you enjoying the experience? 
 MARKUS BRIER:  Yeah, I always liked links golf.  When I was an amateur we came up here at least once a year to play all The Open courses.  I always enjoyed it.  I would like to have played more often on the European Tour. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT