BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2007
Markus Brier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MARKUS BRIER:  Started well with a really good up-and-down on the third 70 yards out for par.  I hit it quite well, driver, 4-iron to the fourth hole, two putts, birdie. 
 6, I hit an 8-iron to like ten feet. 
 Then 7, I hit 9-iron to like eight metres. 
 8, I hit a 6-iron up the slope, ten metres, 30 feet at least.  Had a few good putts there. 
 Then I kind of slowed down a bit and 12 on, I went a bit dodgy, just a few off-irons. 
 13 I hit a 4-iron just right of the green in the rough and chipped it to ten feet and missed. 
 14, I hit it just through the green to the back semi, left the chip short, missed from five feet. 
 15, I drove it in the right fairway bunker, laid up, six yards, pitched too long. 
 18, I hit a driver not so good and a 3-wood on to the green a long way away, 40 feet, two putts. 

 Q.  Did you look at the leaderboard at that stage? 
 MARKUS BRIER:  Yeah, I knew I was going to be up there because the front nine are normally not that easy and 3-under through the front is always good.  But, no, not too much.  It's only Saturday.  Tomorrow I will look. 

 Q.  You're still very much in it, aren't you? 
 MARKUS BRIER:  Yeah, I think so.  It's four off the pace or something.  So, yeah, with a start like that tomorrow, I'm right up there.  So actually they are coming on to the tough holes now because 13, 14, 15 are back into the wind today.  They are into the breeze so it's tough to charge, and that's what killed me.  It's not that easy and also 17 is not that easy today because the wind is off the left and into on the second. 
 So it's probably not that far away.  Sterne is doing well.  So three, four off, that's okay. 

 Q.  Has your confidence grown in terms of being on top of the leaderboard? 
 MARKUS BRIER:  I just try to see it as another tournament, another round, another hole.  Obviously I don't know what's happening tomorrow, it I have the same start but I think I learned my lessons and kept calm and I hope I do the same tomorrow. 

 Q.  Is that a case of just calmness -- 
 MARKUS BRIER:  Mental work as well.  I have my ways of trying calm me down and trying not to think too much about scoreboard or bad shots.  Like with the bogeys, I look at the flowers, look at the trees, think about good memories and try to forget about the bad shots and try to look at what's ahead of me, the next hole. 
 Then I hit it into the fairway bunker on 16 again and from there to the green-side bunker, so I really wasn't going forward and I nearly holed the bunker shot and made actually a great par on 17.  So I can keep my rounds alive.  That could have gone really badly in this round today so I'm happy with the 2-under. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT