U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2019
Chandler Eaton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Can you talk about the competition between all the Am guys here, him, yourself, Brandon Wu?
CHANDLER EATON: Yeah, I mean, it's kind of cool.  We play a lot of golf together, just throughout the season.  I've been fortunate (indiscernible) with Viktor starting at the U.S. Junior, and that was really cool, like I played really well there.  And just being around him, I was like this guy is good, like I could just tell, just like six teams (indiscernible).  It's really good, clean competition.  We all like each other.  They're all really good.  Playing with Brandon, I play a lot of golf with Brandon too.  They're great players.  If they go and shoot 3-, 4-under, I wouldn't with surprised at all.
Q. What's the pride you take in that low am battle for that personally?
CHANDLER EATON: Yeah, that's really cool.  I mean, just have an opportunity to do it is huge.  I mean, Viktor is number one in the world, Brandon is whatever he is, up there.  And, I mean, that would be a huge honor.  Like that would (indiscernible).  My game would be right where I want it to be.
Q. Had you played Pebble before this week?
CHANDLER EATON: Yes.
Q. Did you play at the U.S. Am?
CHANDLER EATON: Yes, sir.  Yeah.  So it's a little different experience.  I think play was good.  I missed the cut, but I knew --
Q. Did that help you?
CHANDLER EATON: Oh, it helped so much because I saw like how I needed to play.  I needed -- what I needed, like what was important.  You can just hit balls on the range all you want, practice, all that, but really it's like putting, short putts, those short game shots, that's really what matters around here.
Q. Just the excitement of having your dad on the bag and Father's Day, kind of sum up what that means to you, what you think that will mean tomorrow?
CHANDLER EATON: It's huge.  I mean, me and my dad started out just like it was always me and him playing golf.  And now he's here.  It's pretty sweet.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT