U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2019
Chandler Eaton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Good round.  You put yourself in good shape to play Saturday, which is a pretty good key.  Just talk about today and your experience here?
CHANDLER EATON: Yeah, I mean, the U.S. Open at Pebble Beach is about as good as it gets.  But, yeah, I mean for an amateur, for me, it's cooler just to see how my game stacks up to these guys.  And I've proved that -- you know, obviously I'm going to make the weekend.  So it means a lot.  It means that I can compete.
Q. Did you have a goal coming in?  Did you achieve that goal?
CHANDLER EATON: Yeah, well, I mean, always in the back of your mind, it's to make the cut and stuff like that.  But really my real goal is to be kind of aimless out there, like just play golf not play with any goals, with any -- you know, just go and play the shot in front of me, which is a big cliche, but it works.
And so just to enjoy each shot, each moment I'm walking, enjoy the views, enjoy the crowd.  That was my real goal.
Q. Might be low amateur?
CHANDLER EATON: Yeah, I mean, that'd be cool.  But, again, you can't get that without playing good golf and just keeping at it, hitting good shots, hitting fairways.  So keep at it, and there's a lot of good amateurs in the field, so...
Q. If you had to pick out one highlight since you've been here, what might it be?
CHANDLER EATON: One highlight.  Well, just walking the fairways with my dad is pretty special.  I think it was cool last night, I was finishing up my round, and I had a chip-in on 16, that was pretty awesome.
And then, yeah, I mean, just being in the locker room with all these players, that's probably the biggest highlight.  Just being around these guys.  Like good golf almost seems to come to me like osmosis when I'm around these guys.
Q. You've got your own locker?
CHANDLER EATON: Yeah, I got my locker.
Q. You got your name on it?
CHANDLER EATON: Yeah, yeah, I'm right next to Jason Dufner, and it's really cool.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT