OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 5, 2016
Brett Rumford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So what are your thoughts on playing in the wind here today?
BRETT RUMFORD: Yeah, the golf course definitely started to dry out toward the last six, seven holes.  But the golf course, yeah, it's shaping up nicely actually.  It's very different to yesterday morning.  But all in all, I think the greens held up really lovely.  I think that's the key to the week I think, holing putts out here.  I putted pretty decent again today, which, yeah, a couple under, pretty happy.
Q. You played in the winds in Qatar, decidedly different on this track here, usually play well in the wind, but how difficult was it compared to the first morning at the Emirates Course?
BRETT RUMFORD: Reasonably so, I think it just emphasized that this grass off the fairway, early morning, you had a dew, so the grass has a tendency, the club just slips through it.  So missing greens, it's a whole lot easier, trying to get up, the ball doesn't want to pinch or want to fly.  So it's fairly consistent around the greens, and then also, as well, flyers, from the semi-rough going into the greens, as well.  It's fairly predictable.
So when this course starts to dry out, it's just like any other.  It just becomes very fiery, and the way the grain is on the greens, it starts to dry out and obviously the emphasis is all about hitting fairways.  So if you're driving it well, you don't really notice how tough the golf course is playing or can play.  If you start missing fairways, it becomes a pain to try to get on the green or anywhere close to the hole.
Obviously I didn't drive it as well today.  Hit a lot of the range of 20-, 30-, 40-foot putts is what you're going to leave yourself, and a lot of tucked pins, as well.  A lot of forward pins, so you're coming out of a lot of deep bunkers and a lot of those holes were downwind today.  Made it quite difficult.
Q. Does that mean a slightly more conservative approach?
BRETT RUMFORD: Definitely, you can't rush it.  You have to take your time and be patient.  That's exactly what happened with a couple of the back pins, the accessible pins, start firing at those, as well.
11 is a classic example of a pin that's way back, you start going at that and getting too greedy, you can make an easy bogey there, as well.  With easy pins, I think you still need patience and the par 5s you just had to try and take advantage of.  I played the par 5s pretty decent today I think.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT