JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 23, 2013
Brett Rumford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  BRETT RUMFORD:   It was close.   I haven't played myself out of the tournament, but I don't think I've extracted the best for myself yet.   It's close, but that's the way the golf course is. 
I think it just sets up for a lot of opportunities and hit a lot of good putts today, which ripped or didn't quite go in.   Hopefully I'm looking forward to the weekend, that's for sure.

Q.   But there were moments, good signs where it looked like you were really going to shoot low for a while?
BRETT RUMFORD:   Yeah, got off to a bit of a slow start and fired it up just a bit closing the front nine, but haven't quite capitalised on the par 5s this week as well as what I should have done, but again, there's plenty of opportunities, you make them up else where. 
Just go work on my putting this afternoon and also just my driver, as well.   I didn't quite feel that comfortable today, but, you know, just hit a few balls today, didn't have much of a recovery after yesterday afternoon. 
But yeah, look, got all afternoon and all morning tomorrow, so I'll try and sharpen things up for the weekend.

Q.   You did capitalise on one par 5, so tell us about the eagle. 
BRETT RUMFORD:   It was a nice drive up the left.   Had 4‑iron in.   It was a good number.   Just pitched it right in the middle of the green to about 18 feet I guess and got a good read and speed off Paul's line, which is about six feet behind me. 
Yeah, look, it was pretty simple and obviously just got things going.   But again, the putter just wasn't cold and couldn't quite keep the momentum going.   But yeah, you never know.   The weekend, obviously the weather is going to be pretty good this week, so make a lot of birdies, and the mentality is going to be attacking golf.

Q.   Despite only being the halfway stage, are you conscious of the leaderboard and your position on it? 
BRETT RUMFORD:   Yeah, absolutely.   The goal is to get in front, stay in front.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT