JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 22, 2013
Brett Rumford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How do you reflect on a round like that which could have been a lower score the way things went?
BRETT RUMFORD:   Just a couple of putts over the last three holes, but I made some good saves, had a chip‑in on 13, I think it is, and made a great up‑and‑down on 15.   So all in all, it was just a solid round of golf. 
The course has presented itself beautifully.   The greens are surprisingly quite nice considering teeing off late afternoon, but the rough's down, so obviously the scoring is reflected obviously with some fairly deep numbers today.   So happy with my start. 

Q.   I take it you were looking forward to playing here, because you do have a nice reputation of doing well at this course. 
BRETT RUMFORD:   The rough is down, they have had a dry summer, a bit of a shame there but still you have to drive it well and get yourself on the right side of the fairway. 
Just one of those things, around this golf course, seems to agree with me and seems to suit my eye and with the par 5s and a lot of wedges out here, as well, the golf course is playing quite firm and running.   If you're driving it pretty well, you're going to leave yourself a lot of those kind of golf clubs.   Yeah, looking forward to the rest of the week.

Q.   Might seem a strange question to ask with a 66, but how is the game overall?   You got it going recently and something's gone wrong and you've slipped back a bit. 
BRETT RUMFORD:   Correct.   The good has been there but there's been the indifferent side of golf.   But it's just golf and I've just been working really hard on it. 
Yeah, it's obviously paid off this week and I'll continue just to try and obviously just focus on the wins. 

Q.   What's that down to, because clearly start of the season or earlier this season we saw you be your absolute best, and maybe mentally, there are moments where it slips away from you a bit more lately. 
BRETT RUMFORD:   Yeah, that's just the way my career's gone a little bit.   But at the beginning of the year, I got myself in position a few times, but I just rack up too many big numbers.   When my driving is not on, that's where the inconsistencies come on my scorecard. 
So if I can drive it well, get it in play, then obviously certain golf courses can really suit me if it's nice and wide; if the rough is not up, I can get something going quite comfortably, not driving the ball so well.   That's what I'm working really hard on is getting the golf ball in play and it's just a combination of everything, just working really, really hard. 

Q.   And this is a superb foundation for the week. 
BRETT RUMFORD:   It's a great start as I say, so we just have to build on this and see where it takes us.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT