VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
May 17, 2013
Brett Rumford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Your first match in the championship having had the day off yesterday, a very fast start to your round, what was responsible for that, any particular aspect to your game? 
BRETT RUMFORD:   Yeah, I'm really happy obviously with the finish.   Jamie got off to a bit of a bad start and I sort of capitalised on that and birdied the third, fourth, and that was the fast start, 3‑up through four.
Beyond that, Jamie couldn't quite get his wedge game close enough and I just capitalised on a few putts and I know yesterday Jamie fought hard.   He's a quality player and I was surprised to have closed it out so quickly. 
I knew it was going to be a tough match but fortunately enough, holed a couple of putts coming in and closed it out earlier, sooner than later.

Q.   Talk us through 12; that was exceptional. 
BRETT RUMFORD:   Yeah, I tried to just put that front right and wind off the left just carried it maybe a little bit too far right, and just ran out of room.   The marshal was looking for my golf ball in that thick of rough, actually got a free drop but wasn't too pleasant.   Just a matter of shutting the eyes and just swing at it.   One of those lucky shots.   Fortunately went to a gimmie and a nice turning point.

Q.   Seve Ballesteros was the last person to win consecutively on The European Tour in 1986, how special just to be chasing that record?
BRETT RUMFORD:   Yeah, look, he was an inspiration to all European Tour players, and obviously in match play, he was an extreme competitor and that's what you need to be in match play.   It would be an honour, that's for sure. 

Q.   How do you reflect on that?
BRETT RUMFORD:   This morning the weather was absolutely beautiful today.   It was a pleasant match with Jamie.   He's a really nice guy, Jamie.   Fortunately enough, I closed it out sooner rather than later. 
You want to try to conserve as much as you can in a championship like this.   I know he fought yesterday with Gonzo, I know he was 4‑down at one particular stage, so I had that in mind.   Obviously made a few good up‑and‑downs through the middle part of the game to just nudge my way a little bit further ahead and closed it out sooner. 
He's a great player, Jamie.   He's a quality player and he just didn't have his wedge game going today, which there is a lot of wedges when it's not blowing out there.   The course is firming up now to get yourself within that range. 
Yeah, look, that's match play; it's a sprint to the finish over 18 holes.   36 holes is a different story, but I'm happy that it's gone my way. 

Q.   And you have another match to come. 
BRETT RUMFORD:   Yeah, Gonzo, he's another great player, as well.   They are all great players no matter who you pick up against this week and they are all going to be hard fought.

Q.   Your energy levels are fine?
BRETT RUMFORD:   They are good.   They are all right.   I'm going to get something to eat now and just keep punching on.   That's what happens when you're not seeded, you're going to pick 36 holes in a day.   But there's cart rides out there, as well, which makes walking the golf course easier.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT