VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
May 14, 2013
Brett Rumford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MICHAEL GIBBONS:     Brett, welcome to the Volvo World Match Play Championship, coming off two straight wins, just your thoughts for the week.  
BRETT RUMFORD:   This week, really looking forward to the week.   After the Volvo China, I went back home on Sunday night.   I didn't get too much sleep on the Sunday night of course flying back home.   Spent Tuesday, had my girls' second birthday, my twins, so just spent the day celebrating their birthday.   
Wednesday, packed, slept for about five hours Wednesday and packed the bags once again to fly back to the U.K.   Got in on Thursday, obviously travelling with twins I didn't sleep for another 36 hours or so Thursday.   So this week has just been trying to get my recovery back and my stamina of being able to take on 36 holes a day for obviously the duration of the event, hopefully, if I can make it that far.  
MICHAEL GIBBONS:   I take it the girls were proud of daddy?   
BRETT RUMFORD:   Yeah, look, they are at the age now where facial recognition is very strong with them so on the TV every time I came on, it was quite comical actually.   They took a lot of photos of that and a lot of video footage, as well.   They are at a really gorgeous age.   
Yeah, it was just nice to get back and celebrate the win with the family.   Obviously the last couple of wins, the last couple of tournaments, I guess the Ballantine's, after six years, you sort of are vying for that next win.   And obviously it's not so much that it's no surprise, but it is very difficult to win.   
So got myself in position to sort of close out the position to close out the last two holes, obviously almost let it slip away.   I was fortunate enough to capitalise on the playoff and obviously take that win.   
But as I said in that speech, you never know when the next win is going to come along.   So it's very special when it does happen, obviously with the competition how strong it is; the next week, obviously had the desire and inspiration.  
Talked to my father‑in‑law, had a bit of a chat to him on the Monday off the Volvo China Open week and said, look, this is just another great opportunity to win this week and obviously to the next step and to propel my career further.   Obviously I had the opportunity to get into this event.  
MICHAEL GIBBONS:   I was just going to say, can you put into context what it's done for your career?   
BRETT RUMFORD:   Yeah, look, it's what I do from now, which will obviously determine which way my career will go.   So it's just basically got my foot in the door, with a lot of the world golf events and also maybe some of the majors.   
So it's a matter of now just trying to capitalise on that.   Two wins is not a destination by any means, and it's certainly a good steppingstone to propel me in the right direction.   
   
 Q.   I asked you this question in China before, about how form comes and goes.   Obviously you then went on to win in China, and so it's very much with you at the moment.   Do you feel that's something that you can keep going now?  
BRETT RUMFORD:   I really don't feel as though I've had confidence or that being in the zone or however you want to refer to that; I just feel as though the bit of work that I've done pre‑Ballantine's and also Volvo China, I was just‑‑ I made some changes late last year going into this year and I've just been working really, really hard back home.  
That's it; it's just hard work.   And then having my twins now at an age now where they are semi‑looking after themselves and that takes a lot of the stress off my wife which filters down to me, so I'm able to focus in on what I'm trying to do.  
2010 was a good year; I got some really good things in place, which started getting me in the right direction.   I had six or seven Top 10s that year, came close to winning a couple of times and had a strong finish in The Race to Dubai, and the twins came along the next year which put things on hold.   It's.  
Been a really hard last couple of years, but this year I've found my confidence in just being able to get back to‑‑ should I say, the confidence in going out; the golf is not really confidence, but just knowing I've done the work to go play well and that's it.   So this week, knowing that my preparation has not been the greatest, I'm realistic.  
MICHAEL GIBBONS:   Big match‑play experience?   
BRETT RUMFORD:   Yeah, plenty as an amateur, yeah.   A lot of these European players, I guess for The Presidents Cup as well, which I haven't been able to play, I haven't played match play since I was probably 20 years of age, so a long, long time now.   
But I really enjoyed match play when I was younger.   I thrived on the competition, and obviously the head‑to‑head battle, and you really‑‑ I guess match play, it's a learned game, as well.   It's very difficult early on to sort of play, an experienced match‑play player, anyway, because it's a completely different mind‑set.   I'm sure I'll find my feet once I get into it.   
   
 Q.   Have you heard from Scotty?   
BRETT RUMFORD:   Of course, yes.   
   
 Q.   What did he say to you?   
BRETT RUMFORD:   Yeah, I got a couple of text messages which is fantastic, and just one that he said, look, I woke up this morning and I saw the results and I'm just thrilled to bits, I'm just really proud of you and really inspiring stuff.   
Look, it was just purely his performance in the Masters which pretty much inspired me and everyone else, but yeah, we have just conversed back and forth just through text messages.   
   
 Q.   Have you heard from Graham Marsh or ‑‑  
BRETT RUMFORD:   No, I have not, but it's actually probably been remiss of me not to actually contact them maybe, or at least Jack.   Jack did, still does, some amazing things for junior golf and the development.   I played in Jack's tournament when I was 12, actually and stayed at his house in the junior days.   Obviously the Jack Newton Junior Classic was the golf tournament that set us off.   
Yeah, so he's been a great supporter of junior golf and definitely I would like to catch up with him at least later on in the year, hopefully at the summer tournaments I'll have an opportunity.   
   
 Q.   This also has opened the door to the Bridgestone, PGA, playing in The Open at Muirfield‑‑  
BRETT RUMFORD:   So, all of that, as I said before, it's what I do obviously with my form and obviously getting into those events is what I do from here.   Hopefully I can capitalise on that and learn from the experience of playing in these events and just trying to develop a stronger game mentally as well as technically.   
   
 Q.   You talked about working very hard; can you go into a little bit more detail about what in particular you work very hard at?   
BRETT RUMFORD:   It's more holistic.   I changed caddies, which I've been working very, very hard with obviously just with the preparation side with Ronnie.   Changed coaches to Pete Cowen, been working hard on the body, as well, which Kevin Duffy from Duffy Golf Fitness, has basically got my body, and nutrition side as well, not just the physiology, it's the whole lot.   Just preparation, everything, and as well as home the hours I've been putting in; it's some long days.   I don't want to go into that side of it, not that I need to, but it's more holistically, I'm just preparing a whole lot better.   
MICHAEL GIBBONS:   Thank you.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT