COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 23, 2013
Brett Rumford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Your thoughts?  
    BRETT RUMFORD:   Just a beautiful day really.   It was just a gorgeous day to be out there playing golf, simple as that.   No wind, yeah, just a nice start.   Played lovely.   Canizares and Marc Warren played lovely as well.   We all had a bit of a scrappy start but momentum, just holed a few putts and we all started to play well and all just fed off one another.   So it was a good morning.   
   
 Q.   Looks like plenty of chances out there in sublime conditions.   
    BRETT RUMFORD:   The scoring is there to be had, and very happy that the scoring is not going too far and I'm sort of in the mix.  
   
 Q.   Very early in the year but did you see that coming?   
    BRETT RUMFORD:   Look, I've been working really hard on the game over Christmas and New Year's, it feels as though I haven't really stopped, really, from the PGA and obviously from the first event in Abu Dhabi last week, there's only a three‑week window there.   So put the clubs down for a week and then back into it.   Haven't really felt as though I've lost too much momentum, so everything is going well.   
    The main focus over the Christmas break, Kevin Duffy, came down from the U.K., my fitness trainer, working hard on the body and trying to get the mechanics right, as well.   It all seems to be paying off this week.   
   
 Q.   Did I see that the family is out with you, as well, which probably helps?   
    BRETT RUMFORD:   The girls are out here, Lulu and Violet and Sally.   So it's always nice when the family is traveling with you but just breaks up the routine and obviously just the golf mentality, so it's really nice.   
   
 Q.   Nice to slip off a bit and get away from the game?  
    BRETT RUMFORD:   They certainly make you do that.   It's just good fun.   They are just getting to an age now, they are 20 months and becoming quite demanding, and in a good way, though.   It's a lot of fun.   
   
 Q.   This week you spent on your fitness, what extent is it?   
    BRETT RUMFORD:   Yeah, look, we just trained every day.   Monday, we worked out the body, what I do is what I do.   I keep those cards close to my chest I think, we work very, very hard and he does a very good job.   I certainly don't want to‑‑ all I can say is that Kevin Duffy, what I need to do, we have gone from every end and back again in sort of just trying to learn what works best for golf and for me, there is no wrong and right and Kevin and me, we speak the same language, which from a confidence perspective, I think when you get that, you're going in the right direction.   
    What I do, I can just tell you that I work have I very hard at what I do, and it's all good.   
   
 Q.   What's the longest cycle you've ever done?   
    BRETT RUMFORD:   As in cycle of‑‑ on the bike?   140Ks, I would say.   But I'm not doing massive distances on the bike but it's very, very intense and it's much much shorter distances, but very fast and very high heart rates.   Yeah, it's good fun though.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT