ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 17, 2012
Brett Rumford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  KATHIE SHEARER:   Thank you for coming in, Brett.   Your season started slowly but is really building up there with that great finish at the Dunhill Links.   
BRETT RUMFORD:   I wouldn't say that it started slowly.   I played really nicely early.   Made a lot of cuts early.   Had a lot of results that I sort of‑‑ I was like 19 to 25th.   Just happened a lot early on, so I wasn't building much momentum with Top‑10s and top 5s and getting myself in contention but certainly playing well enough.   
So just had one of those first halves of the year where I hit it really, really well, wouldn't hole anything or would I hit it a bit scraggy and my short game would sort of save me.   I couldn't quite combine everything together.   Not like the last half, anyway.   
I think the only difference is putting it all together through the middle part, was probably my worst part going through the most part of the season through the biggest tournaments, The French Open, Irish Open, Tour Championship, qualifying for the British Open, I just had a real flat spot through there, and I was only missing cuts by one or two, but magnified when you start to miss three or four cuts in a row, alarm bells started to ring.   
So I had three weeks off prior to the run home, which I just‑‑ sat down with my account, my uncle.   He came across for a week during The Scottish Open and a few days there after and we both just sat down and put a few things in place, a few goals to finish out the rest of the season.   Did some great work with Warren Kennaugh, my sports psych, I guess you would like to call him.   
Yeah, I guess that's been the turning point, just those three weeks, yeah, I guess getting my motivation and my intensity back to play the game and obviously play and practice‑‑ as a result, I guess trying to see the results from it.   
KATHIE SHEARER:   And Karrinyup one of your favorite courses in Australia?   
BRETT RUMFORD:   Yeah, always has been, Karrinyup, it's beautiful.   It's an oasis out here, and it's always had that attraction for Perth golfers.   
It's just been very‑‑ it's hard to get on to.   Obviously it's one of those golf courses that you really cherish, and having the opportunity to come play is fantastic.   It's just one of those, as I said, kangaroos out here, the wildlife is amazing and the natural fauna.   You're sort of driving through the front gates and it's in this really secluded area you've never been able to see in, so you always wonder what's going on behind that gate.   
It's the Augusta of WA (Western Australia), always has been, and yeah, I'm just so happy that obviously the Perth International is here this week.   I think for a spectator's perspective, as well, it's very easy to get around, so I think that is a plus for the viewers, as well.   
   
 Q.   (What do you think of the changes to the course)?   
BRETT RUMFORD:   Yeah, the continuity now from the first to the 18th, it brings the whole thing together.   I think the changes previously, I think were‑‑ some holes were a little bit out of character, and a lot of bunkers were out of character, I guess were the original intention from how the golf course used to play, the original designer.   I think he's done a good job taking out a lot of the trees and making it play how the original designer intended it to play.   
   
 Q.   (Thoughts on conditions) ‑‑  
             BRETT RUMFORD:   No, not really.   Not really.   It's not flat and there's a few subtle undulations.   The greens are quite large, slopey, the bunkers‑‑ I think they are playable now.   I guess the risk/reward, when you go into a bunker, obviously the closer to the lip you are, obviously the harder the golf shot; but you still want that chance to get out in front of the green or maybe even on it.   
So you take that risk with taking the iron out of the fairway bunker, for instance, which I think they have actual‑‑ the bunkers previously was chip out sideways and go from there which I thought was unfair.   
I think it's very playable, and I think just depending how firm the greens get, how fast the greens get, how windy the weather is going to be, is going to dictate scoring.   I think you get calm conditions, and I think you get soft‑ish greens, you'll score very, very well out here.   Obviously the opposite of that is going to be very difficult.   
   
 Q.   (Is there a home‑grown advantage this week)?   
BRETT RUMFORD:   You know what, not really.   The only advantage I believe is for feeling of being home, sleeping in your own bed, preparation has been fantastic, so I'm giving myself the best opportunity to play well.   
As far as actually home‑grown advantage, I think it comes down to knowing greens; the more you can play a golf course, and the better you know and the knowledge of the greens, that's where the advantage lies.   But most of these greens are new.   It's a different grass, as well.   So it is just a putting con really at the end of the day; whoever putts the best is going to win the tournament.   
Being at home is great, playing in front of family and friends, giving that extra motivation.   
   
 Q.   Inaudible.  
BRETT RUMFORD:   Lou (indiscernible) he's been with us since 2001.   
Just had flat spots in my career where I lose a bit of direction, as well.   Obviously with the twins, it was just very, very difficult to try and juggle, obviously what I was trying to juggle at the time.   I was just trying to put things in place, which now I just need to go out and be focused and as committed to playing this game as I can be.   
   
 Q.   (Can you tell us about the work you do with your sports psychologist)?   
BRETT RUMFORD:   Not a chance.   Yeah, the psychology, I guess it's not so much standing behind the golf ball and take a deep breath.   There's that psychology, definitely, but probably just more life skills.   It's just not the one thing, when you're playing well, it's not just one thing that's working well on the golf course.   There's a lot of things that happened away from it that allows you to play well.   
You look at any sort of golfer, it's not really a technical issue at the end of the day.   Tiger Woods is a great example of that.   He was on cloud nine and everything seemingly was going fantastic, and then the things that have come out, a lot of things happening off the golf course affected what's happening on it and it's the same person with the same ability.   Just getting your head around that side of it away from the golf course.   
   
 Q.   (When did you start seeing him)?   
BRETT RUMFORD:   Had a flat spot there where I didn't see him for a little while, and last year with the twins, I couldn't see the point, just how tough those first six months were with flying back and forth from the U.K. while I'm home, having to raise twins, being actively involved with that; I can't explain to you just what I've gone through or how difficult it is.   
But, I've got through that, and you know, now I'm through the worst of it, 17 months old now, so we are just looking forward to now just next year and refocusing and cracking on from there.   
   
 Q.   What's his name?   
BRETT RUMFORD:   Warren Kennaugh.   
   
 Q.   Where's he from?   
BRETT RUMFORD:   I'm not sure, he looks like Ernie Els, though.   (Laughing).   He was mistaken for Ernie Els at Gleneagles.   He played along with it, too.   
   
 Q.   Does he work with ‑‑  
BRETT RUMFORD:   No, I don't think so‑‑ through David, his introduction, he suggested that I should work with Warren, give him a crack.   He's a behavioral strategist, is what he is, not a sports psychologist.   
KATHIE SHEARER:   Thank you very much, Brett, we hope to see you during the week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT