OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 4, 2016
Brett Rumford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Bogey-free 67 today, how happy are with you that?
BRETT RUMFORD: Very happy with the score, not so much how I played, a bit scrappy.  But first off today, greens were perfect and the golf course is immaculate.  So with the light winds out there, it was definitely scorable if you had the putter going, which I did today.  I didn't have too many putts, but I think on the driving range this afternoon, just try to iron out a few miss-hit drives I think.
Q. We've seen some big changes to the golf course and the way that they have set up -- the style they have set it up in.  How have you found it?  Is it a good improvement?
BRETT RUMFORD: I think it's just different.  The old way was good, but I think there's just too many mud balls.  I think first out with the colder conditions, there's always a chance of getting a mud ball with the amount of moisture and water on the old -- I think they seed it with rye I think.  Leaves a lot of moisture.
I think first out this morning, there was hardly any signs of it.  I think they made a wise choice with that.  I just prefer it running.  I think the way the golf course is designed, there's a lot of dog legs, so when the golf course starts to firm up, certainly by Sunday, I'm sure, I think a lot of those lines that you'll be taking on, there will be risk/reward there.
So obviously for the longer players, instead of just bombing it over the corner and just plugging in the fairway and stopping it -- everyone is having a panic out there, getting 40 metres of run.  You have to be quite specific with your line and quite specific with the club that you're trying to hit.  Yeah, I think it's going to play really well.
Q. Thoughts on 5-under after one round?
BRETT RUMFORD: I'm very pleased with that.  I've been shooting some relatively decent numbers over the last few weeks, which has been nice.  Obviously third week out for the season, there's some good signs there.
Q. There were actually good signs, weren't there, in Qatar last week.  Looks like your game is in decent shape.
BRETT RUMFORD: Today wasn't so.  I didn't drive it that well.  I didn't feel as though I had that much control of my golf ball but short game, hung in there today and obviously I didn't have too many putts out there today.  But first off, the greens were absolutely perfect and the golf course is perfect, as well.  It's actually flawless out there.
Yeah, I'll be trying to iron out a few wayward drives this afternoon for tomorrow, and, yeah, just keep moving forward.
Q. In a sense, does it make it all the more satisfying that you haven't had any dropped shots?
BRETT RUMFORD: I think it's a testament to how the golf course is set up and how good the greens are.  It's definitely set up a whole lot different this year with a lot more run on the fairways, and certainly is going to reward those who hit it straight.
Q. You spoke about your recovery and health issues last week, but has your attitude changed as a result of how you're approaching tournaments?
BRETT RUMFORD: I think there's a lot of things that change, when you start to get older.  I think having kids; definitely the surgery has altered my psychology on just my outlook on life.
Yeah, look, I just seem to be a lot more patient, not really worrying, not really carrying too much about where the bad ones are going.  Just accepting it, getting on with it and doing the best I can.  I think that's the key.
I think just having that clarity, that piece of mind when you're approaching that next shot, no matter where it is, it's obviously just giving yourself the best chance of executing the shot you're trying to play, rather than just being all muddled up inside, and obviously releasing a whole lot of chemicals that are not really leaving your body.
You see it with the young kids now.  Yeah, I was exactly like that ten years ago.  Definitely I'm just taking it one shot at a time, really.
Q. Are you back on the bike for the fitness and the exercise?  There's a big bike event going on here?
BRETT RUMFORD: Yeah, one of the photographers, he's a UCI accredited, but it's going to be a long day.  I think the finish is about 100Ks away, so would have been a solid nine hours in the car yesterday following the cyclists around, which would have been a dream but obviously not wise the day before a tournament.
Yeah, I've been out there.  I follow cycling and I love getting out there with my guys back home in Perth, as well, Team Transform.  Yeah, look, it's just a nice outlet and I've been slowly getting back into it.  I haven't been riding to the levels that I was pre-op, but it's always a good indicator to how your body is going and how your immune system is holding up and the limits you push your body to on a bike.  It's been a real good marker to my recovery and where I'm at.  Obviously not riding as much, but enjoying it still when I can.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT