JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 24, 2012
Brett Rumford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  BRETT RUMFORD:   Just two birdies, and that was it really.   The rest pars.   So it was a really, really close to being a very, very good round, and hit a lot of good putts, but just nothing‑‑ couldn't quite get the lines today, simple as that.   Yeah, just a pretty boring round of golf.   It was steady.   
But stayed really patient and so I take some confidence from that, some positives from that side of the game, but yeah, just waiting for maybe something to spark up late in the round or something.   But just the putts didn't quite drop so couldn't quite getting anything going.  
That's just golf and you've just got to take it.   I think particularly on poa, as well, you have to be patient.   Just take the positives.   I'm around the lead, won't be in the lead but around the lead and that's all you can hope for.   
   
 Q.   It is good to put back‑to‑back good rounds together, isn't it?  
BRETT RUMFORD:   Absolutely.   Playing solid tee‑to‑green, which is nice.   Driving the ball well, which is what you have to do around here.   The rough is‑‑ you know, the super wild ones get really, really penalised quite severely, so it's nice to keep the ball in play and just keep the pars on the scorecard.   
   
 Q.   Has it played any differently this morning to the first day?   
BRETT RUMFORD:   Yeah, it was quite heavy this morning with the air temperature obviously much much cooler.   It was very, very damp so the ball wasn't carrying as far, so we had a lot of rain overnight.   It's really making this golf course wet, obviously with this new drainage system on the greens, it's quite a contrast between looking at your line and playing off a soggy wet line and the ball actually bouncing and releasing on the greens.     
It's quite a contrast.   It's really quite weird.   But to chip to, they are fantastic because you know exactly what they are going to do.   So if you are lucky enough to get a decent lie, you know, every chip, it looks good to hole.   
That's the way it course plays.   The greens are very, very flat in certain sections, so they are not massive breaking putts on the particular levels where the pins are cut.   So every chip, as I say, you get in the right spot and it's okay.   It's makeable.   
   
 Q.   Having said that, you have some rain to contend with; could worsen if the forecast is right?  
BRETT RUMFORD:   This morning I looked at the long range forecast it says showers PM for Thursday and AM Friday, and we seem to have gotten the best of it.   I think the forecast might have changed to heavy showers coming in at 4.00; we got lucky, definitely.   
   
 Q.   Thoughts going into the weekend, this position?   
BRETT RUMFORD:   Well, I have to win.   You know, simple as that.   Just to get my‑‑ you know, confidence back, and my game to where I believe it is capable of being, and there are certain things that I want to tick off in my career and winning is one of them.   And to tick these off the list, you have to win.   It's not a matter of wanting to win; if your heart and your goal is set on winning, you have to, simple as that.   That's my mind‑set, taking it into the weekend, see what happens.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT