JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 23, 2012
Brett Rumford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   5‑under par, what pleased you most about your play today?
BRETT RUMFORD:   I think the consistency of it.   I just got off to an okay start.   Weather conditions were nice out there.   Seemed pretty cold this morning.   The consistency tee‑to‑green was steady, just one loose swing on 17, which cost me my only bogey of the day.   So just a steady day.

Q.   2010, I seemed to be talking to you all the time, six Top‑10s and haven't talked to you enough recently.   Why not?
BRETT RUMFORD:   I guess 2010, I was just trying to be the best golfer I could be.   And then twins came along, and now that's all changed and I'm trying to be the best father I can be.   That's been really different the last couple of years. 
But I've got a great team behind me.   I've got a great support in my wife, which makes things easier.   Not to say it's been easy at all.   Obviously trying to deal with this new life, and I wouldn't take it back for anything, or my bad results.   Just trying to deal with what we have at the moment, and I seem to have found over the last three weeks, anyway, worked pretty hard on the game and just trying to get my head back in the game as well, which I guess has been the difference.

Q.   Tell us about today?
BRETT RUMFORD:   It was a good day.   I was just saying to Tim, it was a nice, consistent day.   I had a nice up‑and‑down early, and second, and then holed a chip shot on the third.   So just kick started the day. 
And I played fairly steady from there on out.   But yeah, it was just a nice, steady day, and the course was set up reasonably difficult.   There are some tricky pins out there and I was quite surprised with how tight some of the pins were and where they were for a Thursday, I guess that's another part of the reason that I guess we had the scoring this morning. 
Yeah, 2010 was a great year.   It was just a really good developing year, is what I felt, anyway, as far as just getting things in place to just build on week‑after‑week.   I felt this steady improvement going, and as I say, the twins came along, and everything just changed. 
It's hard to explain.   Every parent out there that has twins, they are probably thinking, oh, my God, how do you even travel with the two every week.   They are not out here every week, but her out here a lot.   It's just different.   It's a different head space, week‑in, week‑out and obviously different   commitments, as well.   So you're just not as focused and dedicated day in and day out on just golf and you're just trying to juggle many things at once.

Q.   And presumably you get used to things more?
BRETT RUMFORD:   Absolutely.   And I'm certainly not complaining about it.   Exactly that; you just have to get your head in a different space and you have to organize yourself a whole lot better than just walking out on the golf course every day and just being fairly care‑free.   I think the biggest difference just having your freedom, your independence.   That gets chewed up a little bit in relationships, just girlfriends, wives; all of a sudden your free time, your me time becomes a little bit less, a little bit restricted and then all of a sudden kids come along and then it gets even less again. 
So you're trying to fit in seven‑, eight‑hour practise sessions, it's not really there anymore.   For me, anyway, for myself, I try to be there for my girls, as well, and try to be as good a father as I can be and see them grow up rather than just belting balls every day.   So now it's just being able to deal with‑‑ and compete and perform as well, on less practise and a few more distractions going on.

Q.   Has that been frustrating from the golfing perspective knowing that you're not at your best?
BRETT RUMFORD:   Absolutely, and going into a week knowing that you have not prepared to play your best.   And you have flashes of where you should be, and there's just no consistency to it. 
Yeah, it's been really annoying, and, you know, Tiger, obviously he had that phase there where he just went out there practicing.   People were saying, Tiger's lost his game, Tiger's finish.   Well, not really.   If Tiger is out there practicing ten hours a day like he usually does, and he's playing that way‑‑ but I'm sure he would have been affected greatly, as well, by what has happened, and as a result, you're seeing the world's best golfer of all time that's really struggled.   Completely different level than mine, of course.   I couldn't mind the struggling, but as we know, it just takes time; it takes time to get back there and you have to work really hard at this game.

Q.   First day of a long tournament, but do you feel you've turned the corner?
BRETT RUMFORD:   Yeah, just the last three weeks, got a good team behind me and I just worked on a lot of things away from the golf course, as well.   Just try to get my head space back to playing the game.   It's been out of it for a little while, as well. 
But yeah, I just felt great today.   I just felt really at peace out there and just pretty much where I was back in 2010.   Did some good work with a sports psychologist back home, and yeah, I sort of lost contact with him just through the sheer demand of having to raise twins last year, which golf just was completely out the window.   I just basically barely hung on for my card at the end of the year. 
Just started getting back and just trying to get my head back into the game again. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT