3 IRISH OPEN
July 30, 2010
Brett Rumford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   BRETT RUMFORD: It was definitely scorable out there today. I drove it poorly, so I really didn't put myself in positions where I was able to sort of attack a lot of the flagsticks, but in saying that, I just hit a lot of shots to 15, 20 feet all day. I hit a lot of good putts. Just when you're at that range and the greens are sort of this tricky and this slopey, it's difficult to make putts. But I'm happy.   
 Obviously Ross Fisher played really, really well this morning and obviously did what you could have done out there with the conditions being so calm, wind got up the last three or four holes so we got lucky with the weather. Obviously it's going to be a tough afternoon for the guys coming in.  
  
  Q. You holed a lot of putts even to save par out there?  
 BRETT RUMFORD: Like I say I just drove it poorly, a couple of holes where I drove into the trees and had to chip out sideways. Sort of just kept the round going and obviously just a few more putts maybe had perhaps could have got the momentum going the other way.  
 It was all right, though. I think I'm 7-under at the moment. I think that's tied for second. Five shots behind, that's a lot of work, though.  
  
  Q. You're not surprised by a 61 from Ross Fisher?   
 BRETT RUMFORD: He's a great player. Not at all. Not with these condition. He's such a good driver of the golf ball and if you get the ball in play around here, the golf course certainly would not be long for a guy that hits it as long as Ross.   
 So you know, I guess he's been relatively quiet these last few weeks, and obviously he's back to obviously try to get back out here and get amongst it again.  
  
  Q. What do you estimate for the afternoon? Is it more and more awkward with the wind picking up?   
 BRETT RUMFORD: One of the locals here said when it rains it doesn't blow, and when it blows, it doesn't rain. It's contradicting his theory at the moment.  
 But I think with the wind up at the moment, I think it's blowing a lot of these fronts through. It rained numerous times this morning, as well, so it doesn't look anything -- in the way of rain, anyway. It doesn't really look permanent but definitely with the wind, it's going to make this golf course a lot trickier.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT