BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 23, 2010
Brett Rumford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   BRETT RUMFORD: It was just a real grind out there today to tell you the honest truth upon reflection. It was very windy. Luckily enough, there's not that much rough out there, which missing fairways wasn't actually a priority and hitting them. It was quite heavy in some places so you could get unlucky.  
 But all in all, it was just a tough, long day and I hung in there nicely. I got off to an absolute flyer this morning, 7-under through ten, eagled two of the par 5s which helped on the first ten holes and after that, sort of the wind really got up on the back nine and plays harder than the front.   
  
  Q. I saw that look on your face when you finished this morning, you felt that you had thrown a little bit away there?  
 BRETT RUMFORD: Any time you finish with a 3-putt, never really leaves a nice taste in your mouth, unless of course you have three shots to win the golf tournament.   
 It was just sort of hard work that was done out there, and knowing that we had to pick it up this afternoon, it wasn't the way I wanted to sort of step out in the afternoon, but you know, kept my composure going and hung in there. I just dug in deep for this afternoon's round. It's just the wind got up even more so this afternoon to make things really difficult.  
  
  Q. Talking about playing in windy conditions, you kind of like it, in a perverse way; how bad was it out there?  
 BRETT RUMFORD: It was -- for this wind direction, I think it actually suits the golf course for making a score out there. A lot of the holes played straight up and straight down so that the majority of the golf course, made things a little bit easier. Crosswinds can be tricky but there's not a lot of rough. I certainly didn't putt as well as I would have liked but again it was tricky with the kind and when you have a broomstick in your hand it makes it all that much harder.   
  
  Q. In context of having a arduous long day like this and a day off tomorrow, what are your thoughts on the 54-hole tournament?   
 BRETT RUMFORD: Yeah, it was really weird, we found out this morning just prior to 18 this morning just before going out. Not too sure why they opted to go down that path. There's been fog forecast, but there's been fog forecast every day. So far it's been okay.   
 It's a shame that we are not playing a 72-hole golf tournament, but then again, depending on what conditions are there tomorrow, we could really have got the worst side of the draw. So if it ends up pretty calm tomorrow, the guys, I would imagine in a one-shot lead might be like four or five.   
 Definitely four or five shots around this golf course, there's a lot of birdies out there, but playing four or five shots behind on a windy day, it's going to be tricky. There's a lot of guys after yesterday's round at 4-, 5-under, just depending what the weather does tomorrow. Hopefully it can be the same.   
  
  Q. Don't suppose you can remember what happened on the eagles? I know it was a long time ago.   
 BRETT RUMFORD: No. 4 was playing straight downwind. Hit driver across the trees and left myself 7-iron to 15 feet and holed that.   
 No. 10, hit driver, chipped a 5-iron through the green and then had a relatively easy bunker shot and it was on a slight downslope to a downslope and just rolled it in.   
 So got it in, went on from there. Yeah, it's just tough, just a rough slog. You have holes, what is it 14, 15, I think is up the hill, and you have 13 up the hill. This morning they moved a lot of the tees forward for this afternoon to make things it easier but this morning it was a real slog.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT