COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
January 31, 2010
Brett Rumford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   BRETT RUMFORD: Very pleased with my position. Just got it around on the weekend, didn't play well at all, didn't drive it well, hit my irons relatively scrappy. And just got the golf ball in the hole.   
 More than pleased to finish where I did, disappointed of course that I couldn't keep playing the way I played the first two rounds, if I had, I would have been very competitive, but I just hung in there and I just got the ball in the hole as I say and just made a lot of real good 8- to 12-foot putts that just sort of kept me in it over the weekend.  
  
  Q. And right until the very end, you had the opportunity and still which a CHANCE?  
 BRETT RUMFORD: Looking back I hit a really nice putt on the last, which if that had dropped, I think Robert Karlsson still had a hole to play. Yeah, obviously to have given myself a chance to be around the leaders, particularly over the closing holes, as well, just grinded out. Made a good up-and-down on 16. Just squaffed it all the way up the hole, holed a really nice eight-foot putt. Got up-and-down from the left side again. 17, holed it from about 40 feet. And then 18, a little bit disappointed for the 20-footer to slide just past the left side of the hole. But very happy with how I finished and turned it into a very competitive finish.  
  
  Q. To do it so early in the year must bode well.   
 BRETT RUMFORD: Yeah, didn't have the best preparation this week, but carried out fine in the first two rounds, as it so often happens with a lot of players that come in unperfect he paired, there's expectations that happen to go down a little bit or whatever it may be.  
 But this week I played well and as I said I'm just more than pleased with my preparation and how I played to finish where I did.  
  
  Q. Next week, Desert Classic, course to your liking?   
 BRETT RUMFORD: Fantastic track, has some strong holes out there and has some birdie opportunities, as well. You've just got to drive it good, depending how the rough is cut for next week. This week was very tough and that's why the scoring I guess was not as deep and also as low. The golf courses out here if the desert really depends on how thick the rough is.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT