COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
January 30, 2010
Brett Rumford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   BRETT RUMFORD: Well, that was just really scrappy golf today. Just couldn't get it off the tee. Just hit flat cuts all day into the right rough and exactly what I was saying, if you don't keep it in the short stuff, it's going to make for one hell of a day, and it was that today.   
 But I did nicely I think for how I hit it. Didn't play my way out of the golf tournament, only a couple of shots off, so hopefully tomorrow -- I'll go work on it tonight, just a few drives and try to straighten it out for tomorrow.   
  
  Q. It is a huge positive, you look at that leaderboard and you're still in it.   
 BRETT RUMFORD: Yeah, it's a shame. I didn't swing the golf club well today, at all. Only a couple of shots off, and if I can get back to the form I played in the first two rounds, a 6-, 7-, 8-under would be nice. It's out there.  
  
  Q. Any reason for a dip in form, or just one of those things?   
 BRETT RUMFORD: Yeah, I'm not too sure. Just wasn't feeling -- wasn't feeling uneasy out there. I was just getting stuck, I could feel it getting stuck and I just couldn't get the club back out in front of me.   
 That's just the way it was all day and I was trying different things, I was trying to work it out, but just as the day progressed, it just got worse and worse. That's golf.  
  
  Q. Is there an element of surprise, I know we said this yesterday when it was benign conditions here, you have beauty again, we have had some fine round of 66s, but it's all still congested?  
 BRETT RUMFORD: It is, and it's because the greens, they are just so firm and fiery.   
 Today the pins were tucked in some really, really tough places to get to, and on top of that, I think they played the course in its full length. All of the par 3s were back and all of the par 4s played their full length, so it was quite a testing day.   
 When you are up around the lead, it's very difficult to attack around this golf course. So that's the thing, you're just hitting it a lot of golf shots to 20, 30 feet and hoping to make the putt.   
 But on this grain, as I've said all week, it's pretty hard to hole putts.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT