COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 28, 2016
Brett Rumford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  After two days, shooting a good combined score like this?  
BRETT RUMFORD: Very pleased actually.  I think the course is set up, I think with the rough not being as long this year, I think it's a bit more scorable.  The greens are quite considerably slower, as well.  Just played well yesterday afternoon.  And this morning, the wind obviously is forecast this afternoon -- it was playable once again this morning.  Just a couple of solid rounds of golf.  And yeah, I think if you putted half-decent, I think the scoring is out there.   
 Q.  You've tended to play well in the past in windswept conditions, haven't you?  
BRETT RUMFORD: I'm from Perth.  It gets pretty windy out there with the Fremantle Doctor that blows through most afternoons.  Yeah, this course, it does set up -- just suits my eye for some reason.  Yeah, I've played well in the past.  Third was my best finish.  Hopefully a couple better this year would be nice.   
 Q.  You feeling good about your game, because there was some very nice signs at the end of last year.  
BRETT RUMFORD: Yeah, I've been working hard on the body with Aaron Doyle with Drive360 back in Perth.  He's actually out here this week.  After my surgery from last year, that was obviously just a real eye-opener into just pretty much your body goes in the opposite direction with your immune system being taken out like that.  It just really opened my eyes to how I prepare for tournaments, how I train.   
Obviously I've always trained hard.  I try to be as fit as I can but try to get the strength back more so than the fitness these days.  Worked really, really hard with that.  Full credit to Aaron for the work that he's done with my body.   
 Q.  Does that mean there's particular changes that you're doing in terms of your routine?  I know after the surgery, you came back and thought it would be all right and maybe jumped back too soon.  
BRETT RUMFORD: Look, that was really naïve of myself to think that I could just come out after three months coming out of surgery with the surgery that I had, anyway.  For me, I just felt if I could swing the golf club, I could go out and compete.  I just didn't realise just how much the effect of having 12 inches of small intestine (removed) would take on your immune system.  It's so important.  I'm just finding it really difficult; fatigue levels are just massive, immense, through the roof.   
One thing is being able to swing it, and then also just getting the strength back.  My clubhead speed, I think with that first event back at the BMW, I lost pretty much 12-mile-an-hour clubhead speed.  So I was swinging about 101 and felt as though I was swinging it normal.   
After those two weeks and then coming up pretty poorly after The Irish Open, as well, and pulling out, yeah, obviously that was a huge eye-opener to think that, wow, this is really going to take a lot longer, a whole lot longer, than what I thought.   
Roger Hawkes, the Tour doctor, he actually had something very similar, s he kind of said to me at the BMW, look, with this surgery, it won't be until another month; you'll look back on this month and realise how much you've improved.  This is nearly 12 months later, and I'm still making just -- I mean, they are only smaller improvements these days after so many months.  But the first few months was just immense.   
But I'm back to playing well and feel like I've worked really, really hard, as I say, on my body.  Just a huge eye-opener in terms of how I prep my body these days.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT