JOHNNIE WALKER CLASSIC
February 9, 2006
Brett Rumford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  Well played, tell us about your round.
BRETT RUMFORD:  My round was pretty solid.  Started off well.  Started off with a birdie.  Birdied the first, birdied the third, got off to a pretty fast start.  Then just played fairly steady from there.  I had three good birdies on 10, 11, 12, and had a great opportunity for eagle on the par 5.  Just 2-putted that for a birdie.

I had bogeys on 17, just a bad drive, the wind had taken it, and 8, just missed it in the right rough, flier to the back of the green and made bogey there.  17, just reached the right trap off the tee and made bogey there.  A little disappointing, but overall, the round, I'm very happy with it.
Q.  As Perth is home, have you had a chance to play the redesigned front nine previously?
BRETT RUMFORD:  Yeah, I've played here many times, many times.  Of course it's now the -- I think it's the public nine holes with the lakes which is usually played.  Yeah, I've been out here probably three or four times in the last few weeks, and just trying to get to know it again.  Obviously previously -- it's a good little nine holes, a few tricky tee shots down there that you need to be aware of.  I think if you get the ball in play, I think it's going to give up a lot of birdies this week.  Pretty generous fairways and obviously the greens as well.

But, you know, saying that, I think the course is set up fairly easy today.  The way they cut the pins made for good scoring around this place.  If the sea breeze picks up, which I'm sure it will over the next couple of days and hits the back part of the greens, some of the greens out there, they are 50 meters long, so it's a difference of three or four golf clubs.  So you can come out here every day all year and play a different golf course.  That's the beauty of this course.  You know, I think you just have to take it on each day.
Q.  Good to have a tournament back in Australia?
BRETT RUMFORD:  Yeah, what has it been, two three years since the previous tournament?  Yeah, it's just great to have the tournament come back here again, different location, but I'm sure not any player out here could say a bad word about the course all weekend.  It's great to play in front of the home crowds and that can help you along the way, and performing well.
Q.  Inaudible?
BRETT RUMFORD:  Yeah, and in the playoff, as well.  I think four holes -- inaudible -- which she did hole, a 30-footer, as I did.  Yeah, that was some golf, very impressive.
Q.  Were you happy with your performance in Europe in 2005?
BRETT RUMFORD:  Yeah, I was pleased.  I didn't drive the ball as well and there are certain aspects of my game that were a little disappointing at the last.  The Volvo Masters I missed out on; I needed about a thousand Euro to get into the Volvo, that was a goal and I would like to achieve that.  But I still played pretty nicely through the year.  I didn't play as well through the middle part, but I had a great start and finish, and I've just been trying to consolidate that part of the year and just going into the first part of the season in '06.
Q.  Plans from here onwards?
BRETT RUMFORD:  Playing the next two on the Nationwide Tour and then the Clearwater Classic in New Zealand.  I think there could be a six-week break for us, but I believe there's Malaysia which runs over the next three weeks.  And if I'm feeling fresh still, if I am, I'll probably play Singapore and hopefully work on some invites.  A four-week window before China again, so my first one will be China and then back to Europe again.
Q.  Good to have your brother Mitch back on the bag?
BRETT RUMFORD:  It's mood swings with Mitch.  When it's going great, it's great but when it's going bad, it's bad with it.  Yeah, he doesn't hold back.  He voices his opinion and says how it is, and sometimes players don't want to hear that.

Yeah, I think he caddied for us the first nearly three years, two years when I was out there.  I play with him all the time back home so he really helps me with my game, helps with club selection a great deal and just keeping me company.
Q.  Any good advice from him today?
BRETT RUMFORD:  Yeah, we got held up a few times out there -- I can't repeat some of the stuff.  Yeah, it was good stuff.  He does a great job and that's why I've got him on the bag this week.  Unfortunately, Max, my caddie that is on full-time busted his shoulder going into the last break after the Ericsson Masters.  He's on the couch at the moment.  So this being a home tournament, I have Mitch on the bag.
Q.  What happened to Max?
BRETT RUMFORD:  I think it was actually the first day of the six-week break there.  He went out to Sydney, he was going on down from Sydney to New Zealand for a golfing holiday for six weeks.  And I believe that he had some new office blocks that were not quite refurbished or finished off, and he was walking down a flight of stairs, the bottom step was a bit lower than previous.  So he missed his footing, fell over, grabbed the side rails, I do believe, and fell on his left shoulder.  I think he may have broke it, knocked two front teeth out.  So he's been on the couch with his arm in a sling.
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  Thank you, Brett.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT