DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 30, 2005
Brett Rumford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SCOTT CROCKETT:  Brett, thanks for coming in as always.  In at 6 under, you must be very pleased given the conditions.  Tell us about your round?
BRETT RUMFORD:  Yeah, very pleased.  I got off to    I had a good couple of up and downs on the first two holes to save pars and bogeyed the third after 3 putting that hole.  So didn't get off to the greatest of starts, but just started hitting some quality golf shots through the middle part of my round, stayed patient.  The wind was obviously not as strong as how it finished, but it was still quite strong.  The first nine holes it played more directly off your left, swung around, played more straight into, and I think we got lucky with the weather but just made birdies, on 15, hit a great right edge of the green to chip feet and holed that for birdie.

9, I had a good birdie there, hit a wedge to about ten feet and holed it.

10, hit a 6 iron in there to about two feet and made birdie there.

11 was playing pretty brutal.  Through the loop from about 9 onwards is when the wind really started to pick up.  So just being patient and hitting good golf shots was what it was all about, the wind just took us miles up the right edge and didn't get up and down, just about six foot.  Hit some nice shots on the next few holes, didn't really get anything, birdied 15 and hit it to about 12 feet and holed it in.

The last, drove it on the green and putted to about five feet.  The wind was off my right so I thought the wind might have actually affected it, got to the right edge and didn't move.  Disappointing but obviously happy with 2 under.
Q.  Difficult to keep your concentration out there?
BRETT RUMFORD:  Yeah, it's very difficult.  Obviously the wind is up and that's causing a lot of problems out there.  That's probably why the rounds are so slow, but every year it's the same out here.
Q.  Rounds are six hours?
BRETT RUMFORD:  Thereabouts, 5:45, and we're the second group out as well, we had a clean run at it and six hours, that's a pretty long day, isn't it.  Mind you, it's just slow.  There's no hold ups on any tees.  I think through the loop, the par 3, No. 11, I mean, there's a group right there, there was a group just teeing off, but there was no like two or three groups on any tees which you would expect for a six hour round of golf.  Each shot, it just takes time and there's a lot of waiting in between on the fairways, hitting your second shots and then tee shots and next shots.

So every single hole you're waiting, not just having that one hole where you have to wait 45 minutes.  So it's pretty hard mentally and obviously to cope in this weather, as well.  But to tell you the truth, second group out, we got away with it and when the wind switched off the front nine coming home was a big advantage.  The guys out there now, I feel sorry for them.
Q.  You did well in Germany, is the form pretty good at the moment?
BRETT RUMFORD:  Yeah, went home for another couple of weeks again, relaxed, saw my girlfriend, saw my coach and just spent time with the family.  Flew back on the Saturday night, got in Sunday afternoon and just pretty much have done that same routine and playing pretty much the same golf.
Q.  Difficult because of the three courses in action?
BRETT RUMFORD:  You know, yeah, I think it's difficult in the fact that the greens are going to be different, the pace from Carnoustie to St. Andrews to Kingsbarns, they are all different.  Although be it links golf courses, they are all different in their own respect and you have to hit different golf shots.  Trying to prepare yourself is probably the hardest thing, and setting the game plan, obviously you have Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday to try to prepare for that.  It's a real long week once you played Monday to Sunday, that's seven rounds of golf and come Sunday.
Q.  Inaudible?
BRETT RUMFORD:  I played Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday around all three, so it's pretty difficult in that sense to try to come up with a game plan.  I think these three courses, they definitely, obviously Montgomerie is at the top of the leaderboard, and I think experience is's huge advantage around these courses.  Playing this format for the guys that are new here, it's very difficult to prepare around three completely different links courses I think.
Q.  Second in Munich turned your season around?
BRETT RUMFORD:  It's just really flat through the middle part, not much was really happening.  I wasn't playing golf, and then obviously just going back home and clearing my mind and just refreshing I think is has just turned the momentum around for us I think.
Q.  Are you are you still flying in the jet?
BRETT RUMFORD:  No, unfortunately.  I had to fly and then an hour's drive out here.  Flying back from Cologne was my last flight, but it was good fun there while it lasted.
SCOTT CROCKETT:   I think we spoke about that, a unique experience traveling in that lap of luxury.
BRETT RUMFORD:  Yeah, absolutely, but hopefully again.
Q.  How did that come about?
BRETT RUMFORD:  It came about from the Red Bull Final Five which was at the Irish Open, the last five holes aggregate won a 50,000 pound credit or 20,000 miles, whatever it was
Q. Is it Easy Jet this week then

Brett Rumford: No, BA. Might get a free upgrade for that plug.
Q.  Monty might take a bit of stopping?
BRETT RUMFORD:  You know, Monty is the kind of player, when he wants something, he's highly motivated.  I think once he's got it in his mind, he's a very tough competitor.  And I think this week with the Order of Merit the way it stands, I think a win here, I guess his psyche is a win is going to put him in with a good chance come Volvo, and obviously not winning The Match Play put him quite a bit behind Michael Campbell.  It's a good purse this week and good opportunity to try to close that gap.

Plus, it's links golf; that's where he was born.  His ball flight is low, and his experience around here is going to make him a very tough competitor.
Q.  What do you mean when you say that Monty is the kind of guy that when he wants something, he gets something?
BRETT RUMFORD:  Yeah, once he's got it in his mind, he's a very tough competitor like that.  And once he gets into that mode, there's no stopping him usually, unless he knows Tiger Woods of course.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  Brett, well done today.



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT