SMURFIT EUROPEAN OPEN
July 1, 2005
Brett Rumford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. It looks very solid on the card, was it?
BRETT RUMFORD: Well yes, kind of monotonous. I didn't play as well today as I did yesterday but I still gave myself a lot of opportunities which skimmed the hole, and that was the difference in going three or four better or just making the pars that I did. It was just a nice patient round of golf. I stayed in the present and just grounded it out.
Q. Jonathan Lomas said the same thing, he had a lot of chances, but just saw the putts slip by?
BRETT RUMFORD:  Well, they tucked a lot of the pins away today as well so there wasn't too many times when you could really have a go at them and give yourself a realistic chance of making them. I probably had only three or four good opportunities of holing realistic putts for birdie, but most of the time you were just trying to hit it to 20, 25 feet and lag it down and if it goes in, it goes in. I just try to keep it in the present as much as I can and obviously it helps with the confidence if you can get one in early, and if you can hole three or four good putts then it helps with your momentum. But it should be an interesting weekend and it will all depend on the weather.
Q. You look as if you will certainly be in the mix?
BRETT RUMFORD: Yes, and I think a lot of it over the weekend will come down to the pin placements. You have really got to hit these fairways and if you don't, then you are leaving yourself about 80-100 metres in because it is pretty hard to advance it from the rough, and hitting from there into tight pins is not really gettable either. You can rack up a lot of bogeys that way and I think it is a matter of keeping the bogeys off the card will be the winner at the end of the day.
Q. Bring us up to date with the air miles prize and the private jet? (see attached)
BRETT RUMFORD: I have only used it once to fly to Paris last week and I thought, what better venue than Paris to fly into on a private jet.
Q. How does the system work?
BRETT RUMFORD:  Well, I just phone them up and have to give them at least 48 hours notice. But it is pretty expensive. I have a Ã‚ £50,000 credit with one of the companies and flying to Paris return last week was Ã‚ £9,500 out of that. It is very expensive to fly, but that depends on how many people are flying which uses up more fuel and obviously which airports you are flying in to. It is a nine-seater XL Citation which you can probably realistically fit five to six players in it with luggage.
Q. The threshold is the number of airmiles you were given?
BRETT RUMFORD: Well, they say 10,000 airmiles, which equates to Ã‚ £50,000 and it just depends on where you fly from as well. Flying out of Heathrow is Ã‚ £500 more than flying out of Farnborough, and having more people on the plane uses up more fuel and therefore it is more expensive so your airmiles are less. The benefit, of course, is just not having to wait around. You can get there half an hour before, well not even that, because I  was half an hour late on my plane to Paris.
Q. They're not going to go without you, of course.
BRETT RUMFORD: Exactly, too right! That is the biggest advantage. Being able to leave when you want to leave and there is no stress with particular times. The funny thing is that when you normally check in at Heathrow you have to walk about a kilometre to your gate, but with this, pretty much the car pulls up about 20 metres from plane, you walk 20 metres to the flight and away you go. It is perfect, ideal, and pretty much the same when you land. There is a minibus waiting for you when you get off the plane and you step straight into that and head home. I guess it is how the other half lives and it is a lot of fun.
Q. Something to aspire to then?
BRETT RUMFORD: Well, yes, but unfortunately it has to end.
Q. What is the next trip?
BRETT RUMFORD:  Not sure yet. I was thinking about using it for the Volvo Masters at Valderrama but it is going to take up about Ã‚ £35,000 for that so that would only leave one other shortish flight from there. So I am thinking about using it for about five short flights whatever they may be, I'll have to check my schedule. I am going to try and use it as much as I can, maybe a few trips to Scotland like Gleneagles and maybe even next week, we'll see how it goes.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT