BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 19, 2015
Brett Rumford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  BRETT RUMFORD:   My recovery has come around pretty quick.   Obviously for the people that don't know, I had surgery the 13th, 14th of March and had 12 inches of small intestine removed, which wasn't so pleasant, in South Africa.   
But recovery was really, really slow initially, probably the first six, seven eight weeks, nothing much was happening.   But I seemed to really have turned the corner the last couple of weeks.   Got back into the U.K. last Monday, flew across and thought I would just having my presence here in Europe, just trying to see the right people just on my fitness side, as well, while I was here and having my coach here in Europe, as well, was just the best thing for me.   
Recovery has come around much sooner and quicker than what I expected but I'll give this week a crack.  
   
 Q.   Elaborate on what actually happened because you were in South Africa and it looked awful.   
BRETT RUMFORD:   Yeah, it was.   I guess the only thing that was reported on, I had a bit of food poisoning.   Another report was I choked on an apple or something.   There's a few rumours going around.   I just had a blockage in my small intestine as it turned out and I've had partial blockages before through eating apples, which is the only correlation I can make to obviously having the pain and generally having that two‑hour or three‑hour onset of when the pain starts to kick in.   
I had an apple through the turn on the Friday of the South African Open.   Sure enough, I had my lunch after I had finished, and yeah, started to feel the waves of pain come on.   
I've had partial blockages before.   I would send myself through to emergency, check myself in, get on a drip and have morphine and generally it would clear and work itself out, and that's what I was thinking.   I thought worst case, I'll have to go in and spends a night in hospital, not the best prep for the weekend, but I thought, so be it, but it just didn't want to release.   
Got me in under observation for pretty much the night.   They got me on some morphine, put in a nasal drip, which wasn't very pleasant, and I've never had that before, and obviously I thought when they put in the nasal drip, I thought, you know, obviously it's something a bit more serious here going on.   
Scans came back within about 20 hours being in the hospital, just nothing was improving.   All my markers, my blood values were coming back, worsening and same with the scans on my small intestine.   So the surgeon simply said, look, if we can go down orally and clear it that way, great.   If not, we'll go arthroscopic, have a bit of a look, clear it, two weeks off got.   And worst‑case scenario, just have to open you up do and be a bit more intrusive and take out some small intestine, which they did.   They removed 12 inches of small intestine, couldn't release the blockage any other way.   
So I spent pretty much 17 days in hospital and a few days thereafter.   Got looked after really well by Fred and Susie Low (ph) in South Africa.   Thankfully enough, being one of the physios out on Tour, she was there pretty much the first day that I was admitted to hospital and she looked after us really, really well.   Obviously IMG had some guys down there, as well, which were doing a great job looking after us.   
It was a painful experience, pretty scary one, as well, being on the other side of the world.   Getting sick is never a good thing.   But yeah, these things happen and it just makes you appreciate how fortunate we are in life just to be fit and health and things can turn around pretty quickly, in which case, yeah, it got pretty ugly pretty quick.  
   
 Q.   We heard the story you wouldn't be back this season.   So are you back too soon?  
BRETT RUMFORD:   Look, I seem to be okay.   I got back on my bike about four and a half, five weeks after surgery and I that I that was perhaps probably the best thing I could have done.   After spending a good, solid week on your back where you're fairly immobile, you're immobilised and not really moving too much.   A collapsed lung and rest of the fluid in the lung, that was probably my greatest concern after the surgery, and that was the hardest thing to get back was to utilise my diaphragm and getting that working.   
And I think just getting back on the bike just helped that whole area and with the whole function of my small intestine and the surgical procedure.   A little bit of that, and I guess being a lightweight, anyway.   Not carrying too much weight.   Lost ten kilos the last two weeks, which when you've got 65 kilograms as a frame trying to get around, it's not putting too much pressure on the scar.   
A few things in play but I was relatively fit going into the surgery.   But I've tried to be as active as I can, and as much as what the surgeons were saying, take time off.   And the rest of it, I figured they might be going by averages, the average male and average female, and that's just an average time frame of six weeks where you're not doing anything.   I thought to get into it sooner rather than later would be the best thing.   
I contemplated having the year out, of course, but I feel good.   Last couple of weeks, it's really improved and it's still plenty of golf tournaments, there's still a long year ahead.   So for me to sit out the year, feeling the way I'm feeling right now, being able to swing the golf club and hit it the way I'm hitting it, I can see no reason why I shouldn't be coming back to play and compete.   It would just be a cop‑out excuse for me just to rack the golf clubs and call it a year.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT