ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 23, 2014
Brett Rumford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Just what you were hoping for.   
BRETT RUMFORD:   Exactly.   I'm speaking to you once again.   Yeah, it was good.   Was a nice morning.   The wind was up early.   It was a fairly rough start to the morning obviously getting up at 4:40m 4:30, whatever it was in the morning.   
But got off to a nice start.   Greens were perfect absolutely just spot on.   Nice and receptive.   Started to dry out perhaps the last six or seven holes, which started to make it a little bit testing.   
Took advantage of good greens early and the softer conditions.  
The back nine I think probably puts up a few more birdies than the front nine as well.  
   
 Q.   Yesterday we spoke to you about how tough it can be missing all of those.   What about after a round like today?   How refreshing is that?   
BRETT RUMFORD:   Yeah, it's good.   Look, it was really nice.   The last nine holes or maybe the last six just felt the struggle in there a little bit.   Just wasn't as clean as obviously my first nine or ten holes.   
Outside of that, you know, it's exactly what I was hoping for.   Not too far off the lead.   Obviously just a nice, refreshing start compared to what I've been doing.  
   
 Q.   You guys all bogeyed the 6th.   Is that one of the toughest holes out there?  
BRETT RUMFORD:   Yeah, the wind just really started really picking up and had a gust come through.   Picked up about 30ks, uphill drive.   Unfortunately didn't quite get to the crown of the hill.   Jason missed it left in the left bunker, which is usually easily carried.  
It's just playing really long, really tough.   Where that pin was today, you just can't miss it right.   Jason Dufner had to lay it up, and obviously myself and (indiscernible) misses it right.   Just a tough hole.   Really tough.  
   
 Q.   You said you sort of felt things turning, but how nice is it to get the actual score on the board today?  
BRETT RUMFORD:   Really good.   It was nice to have momentum, which was nice.   So just to see some shots going in the right direction and just obviously not actually having to battle for most the round.  
Battled coming home, which was disappointing, but, yeah, outside of that it was just nice seeing some red up on the scoreboard for sure.  
   
 Q.   You look up and see Oliver Goss' name at the top?  
BRETT RUMFORD:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   You had much to do with him over the years?  
BRETT RUMFORD:   Not really.   Of course you hear about the young guys coming through, and obviously his name has always about there for a little while now.   
Once you go to the States, it's just a complete disconnections you're following from any of the Australian players, unless they win a U.S. amateur or something like that.  
Yeah, look, he's obviously going pro from what I hear at the end of the year, or through the Q schools anyway.   His career is beginning.   Yeah, it's exciting to see.   He's a good player.   Obviously.   
   
 Q.   Your coach that you went back to, what was his name?  
BRETT RUMFORD:   Matthew Belcham.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT