VOLVO GOLF CHAMPIONS
January 11, 2014
Brett Rumford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I take it this is turning into a pretty satisfying tournament after an indifferent start.   
BRETT RUMFORD:   It is indeed.   I had seven weeks off so I haven't really come into this week with too many expectations of really anything.   Just been taking it one shot at a time, one day at a time and really happy with my form so far.   It's been fairly scratchy.   Quite a demanding golf course.   
Obviously it's not overly long, a lot of irons off tees so that's been my saving grace, the fact that it's not too long and obviously the greens, the surrounds are tricky but if you leave it in the right spot it's not so hard to get up‑and‑down.  
   
 Q.   You tend to like the challenge of playing in the wind.   
BRETT RUMFORD:   Yeah, yesterday was really tough.   No doubt about it, the first five, obviously key to this golf course, downwind made them a whole lot easier but the last five was back into it.   If the wind switches on you, it's either the first five is easier or the last five is easier.   It's a different round but happy.   Made some nice up‑and‑downs yesterday, I think I had 22 putts or something crazy.   My short game was firing, which it had to be because my ball‑striking wasn't.   
   
 Q.   Tidy position into the final day.   
BRETT RUMFORD:   I've been chipping along and I haven't really been in this golf tournament all week.   Really pleased with where I'm at tomorrow.   Tomorrow just keep doing the same things and stick with the game plan.  
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on the tournament, after winning the Volvo China Open and in Korea last season?  
BRETT RUMFORD:   Yeah, and Per Ericsson has obviously tipped a bit of cash into this event, great incentive for us to kick off the season and it's great to play four rounds no matter what leading into the Middle East next week.   We'll just take it from here and see how it goes.   It is a great bonus after playing so well last year.   
   
 Q.   Been testing the sponsor's products?   
BRETT RUMFORD:   Yeah, I was out in one of the diggers, the Volvo, that machine down there.   You can tap‑in from a foot or six feet‑‑ it was a lot of fun yesterday and required a lot of touch, more so than what I've got on the golf course.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT