WIMBLEDON
July 2, 2016
Steve Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. JOHNSON/G. Dimitrov
  6‑7, 7‑6, 6‑4, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
   
 Q. Does it feel like a pretty big milestone for you, getting into the second week?  
STEVE JOHNSON: Yeah, my first time in the second week. You know, it's definitely something I wanted to achieve hopefully this year. Didn't have the best start to the year I wanted, but, you know, it's why it's a long year. You have to rebound and take the good with the bad and hopefully turn around.  
   
 Q. What do you owe that turnaround to? It's been pretty strong these last couple of weeks, and it was a pretty rough start to the year.   
STEVE JOHNSON: Yeah, I think I just was getting in my own way a little bit mentally. I just needed to play tennis again, not worry about the outside factors and everything.  
I think for me it was just focusing on what I do best on a tennis court and that's have fun and play tennis. That's what I need to focus on.  
   
 Q. What do you think your alliance with Sam does for you and does for him, and how does that contribute maybe to the boost you guys have had this week?  
STEVE JOHNSON: Well, I'll tell you what. I did a fair bit of scoreboard watching, unfortunately. It's hard not to. I will tell people I didn't, but it's hard not to. I'm serving match point and Sam wins, and the crowd goes crazy. I told him he should have just waited like another 30 seconds or something, because I had to reset and I ended up losing that point.   
It is what it is. Sam, I got to watch not much of it, to be honest, because I was playing. Super happy for him. God, he deserves it. Hopefully we can just keep pushing each other to bigger and better things.  
   
 Q. What do you think, being his teammate, being a doubles teammate, having a friendship, having a working relationship, what do you think that does for your perspective and your tennis?  
STEVE JOHNSON: I think it does a lot. You know, earlier in the year he came out and was very ‑‑didn't do so well in Australia. I won a few matches, made third round Australia. He comes out in the U.S. swing, Acapulco, does insanely well. I didn't win any matches.   
You feed off his energy just so I'm not always out there alone. I see Sam doing well, I know I can compete with Sam. Hopefully, you know, his good vibes‑‑ he's a very happy‑go‑lucky guy. Hopefully his positivity out there wears off on me as well and I think vice versa. It works well for both of us.  
   
 Q. This could end up being a big day for Americans. Isner two sets up now. Do you think your results aren't maybe just for yourself but a big day for America?  
STEVE JOHNSON: I think it's great. Maybe we won't get bashed in the media for once for at least a couple guys. That's on you guys, but, you know, that's great. (Laughter.)  
We all have the talent and we all know we're capable. Sometimes it doesn't work out.  
   
 Q. When Sam was going to play Djokovic, did you think he had a realistic shot at ending Novak's streak?  
STEVE JOHNSON: Yeah, of course he does. You look at Sam's game. Huge serve. Huge game. He can impose his will on anybody. I have seen him beat Novak before.   
In no way, shape, or form did I feel that he walked out there that he didn't have a shot. He came out, smoked him on ‑‑ I don't even know what day it is anymore. So many rain delays. He came out today. Played maybe a bit of a nervy third and fourth just steadied the ship, served great, and that was it.  
   
 Q. What was his demeanor like before, during, and after his match?  
STEVE JOHNSON: I'm not sure it was any different. I mean, Sam is Sam. He's in the locker room joking, golfing around, putting. Man, you have Djokovic two sets on the ropes. We could be at, you know, LA Open which doesn't even exist anymore. I have no idea.  
That's just the way Sam is. Last night you couldn't tell anything was, you know, out of the ordinary. That's just Sam.  
   
 Q. That seems not human.   
STEVE JOHNSON: It's great. I think it's great in a way, and sometimes it's like you do want some of that. But for him it works. For some other guys ‑‑I'm very kind of easygoing, but when it comes time to play, I try and get my head in the game and go about my business. But it's great. Sam's a great guy. He deserves it and I'm very happy for him.   
   
 Q. Did you say putting around, like he was playing golf?  
STEVE JOHNSON: Yeah, there is a bunch of putters in there. Putting around. Having fun with all the guys in the locker room. That's what we do when we are bothered. Five rain delays in a day or however many there were.  
   
 Q. What are your thoughts playing Roger Federer in this situation?  
STEVE JOHNSON: I think it's going to be exciting. He's won this tournament a few times. I have never played on Centre or 1, or I don't know what court we will be on. I'm assuming it will be one of those two.   
It's going to be a great experience. I'm going to go out there thinking I'm going to be the winner. I have no fear out there. I'm going to go out there and try and play my best tennis and hopefully my plan works.  
   
 Q. When you think of Roger Federer and Wimbledon, what do you think of first?  
STEVE JOHNSON: Unfortunately, as an American, I think of him beating Andy. I mean, you know, I think that was a heartbreaker across the board for a lot of people. Super happy for Roger, obviously. He was one of my idols growing up. Also super bummed for Andy because he's one of my idols and still is.   
I think that's one of my clearest memories of Wimbledon as a kid and whatnot, just watching that long fifth setter and just ending, going Roger's way.  
   
 Q. In a tennis and tactical sense, what's key for you when you match up against Roger in the next round?  
STEVE JOHNSON: I don't know. I'll figure it out tomorrow. I have a day off finally. I've had a lot of matches the last two weeks. Take it light tomorrow. Not think about tennis too much. And then just go about my business Monday.  
   
 Q. What does Sam's victory over Novak maybe do for you as you go up against the guy who's considered the greatest ever at Wimbledon?  
STEVE JOHNSON: Gives everybody confidence. You know, you see Novak, you know, lose, which is very few and far between. You sense the locker room, like believe there is a chance, you know. Just he has that aura about him right now, as did Roger back in the day and as did Rafa did at the French.   
Once you see him go down, I think guys will start to believe that they also can do it. So I think it's going to be interesting.   
   
 Q. What was your mood in the doubles after you had these huge wins? Was it all business out there?  
STEVE JOHNSON: Yeah, look, Sam and I play best when we're having fun. Probably not the most ideal situation going out there playing doubles today, but we have fun. That's what we do best.   
It was fun to go out there, hit a few balls, play with your buddy on a great day. I tried to walk a bit behind him since the cameras were all following him around. I didn't want to be in the spotlight or anything. So I just let him walk out there and kind of have his moment.  
   
 Q. Does he seem to be enjoying this day?  
STEVE JOHNSON: Of course he is. If he's not, he shouldn't be playing tennis I don't think. He's enjoying it. We will have a good day tomorrow and hopefully come back Monday, both of us ready to rock.  
   
 Q. Being in the top half of the draw, you only had one day off between Nottingham and Wimbledon. How tough was it to make that quick transition and how big was the title for your confidence heading into Wimbledon?  
STEVE JOHNSON: The title was enormous for the confidence. The whole week was enormous. Even if I would have lost to Pablo, it wouldn't have been a negative week by any means.  
Monday was a quick turnaround. Monday was more about, you know, just survival, get through it, maybe it's not your best tennis. You know, first time I have hit on these courts and everything.  
Got through it. Had Tuesday off. You know, Wednesday I think I played a game. Thursday played a good match against Chardy. Friday, Saturday, whatever it is, you know, strung together a bunch of good mini sessions against Grigor. I'm just glad to, you know, get that win today.   
   
 Q. Was that tough? You were always up when the rain came.   
STEVE JOHNSON: Yeah, it's tricky. It's one of those times I was up so I wanted to keep going. I felt like each time out of the rain delay, he came out and he played well the second time. You know, I got up a quick 3‑0, and he came out and played a good couple games.   
I got 5‑2. Even though I held he played a good game to get a couple of break points. I'm glad to be sitting here with a win and hopefully no more rain delays the rest of the week, you know, God willing. No more. I can't do it anymore.   
   
 Q. Was that switch to letting yourself just play tennis, as you said, getting out of your own way, was it something you consciously did before the grass season? Or as you started to win matches you realized that's what you need to be doing?  
STEVE JOHNSON: Well, you know, I started the grass season off with a loss in s‑Hertogenbosch. Didn't play my best tennis by any means. At Queen's on Monday, you know, I'm down 4‑0, break points, thinking I'm going to get double‑bageled to Gasquet. And all of a sudden it was like, Well, there's nowhere to go but up. Swing for the fences.   
Got one break back. Got the next. Played a good breaker. Once you get that first win like that, I think ‑‑I mean, tennis is such a game of small margins. I just stuck with it. Had a great week there.   
Had a great week in Nottingham and another great week here. Hopefully I can use this success going into the summer, as well.  
   
 Q. A few minutes ago you mentioned the media and its role and the portrayal of American tennis. In your mind, what is the state of American tennis at this time?  
STEVE JOHNSON: I think it's very good. I mean, you've got John at the top who's been a leader for us. You have Jack who is mid 20s, I'm mid 20s, Sam's 20s. I mean, we're all right there, you know.   
I think we get criticized a bit for not winning slams, which is fair, because back in the day with Connors and McEnroe and Sampras and Agassi and those guys.  
But, you know, I don't know. Somebody's got the numbers, but the last ten years five guys has won every one, give or take one or two. Maybe in 30 years you'll look back at a guy sitting here, a Serbian guy thinking, why the drought? Because Novak is gone. It's going to be the same thing.   
It's one of those things. I think it comes in waves, and hopefully we have a lot of good guys coming up and hopefully they can push us and we can help them any way we can.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT