ROLAND GARROS
May 29, 2017
Steve Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. JOHNSON/Y. Sugita
6-3, 6-3, 6-7, 6-7, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Steve, so sorry for your loss.  Your dad was so respected in tennis circles in America.  Could you just share with us some of your thoughts.
STEVE JOHNSON: Yeah.  I have no thoughts.  I don't know.  Sorry.  Yeah.  I don't really know how to put it into words.
Q. Just a tough time.
STEVE JOHNSON: Yeah.  Just an emotional time.  Yeah, it's not about tennis right now.  Sorry.
Q. Did you at all think about not coming here and do you feel like you're playing for him?
STEVE JOHNSON: No.  I don't know.  I think I was, I don't know what to think really.  You know, my mom and sister had this whole trip planned for years now.  She graduated college and, you know, they were going to come here and kind of follow me to Queens and then go back before she starts work and whatnot.  So, you know, my mom and sister and, you know, my fiancée are here, so it makes it easier and harder all at the same time to see them.  Just the pain and you, you know, just trying to get through it.  You know, it's just hard.
Q. So how is it just trying to focus on the match and, obviously, it got suspended so more focus needed at a time when it's probably tough to do that.
STEVE JOHNSON: Yeah.  I mean, it's probably one of the harder matches I've played.  In Geneva last week I was kind of able to get through it and kind of in a little easier way here.  You know, at the end of the third set yesterday just kind of the emotions kind of hit me pretty hard and, you know, I was lucky to kind of have the night to figure it out.  But, I mean, again, you have all night to think about what could have happened or what could have been.
And just lucky to come out and win today in the 5th and you know, it's just, yeah, today -- you know, the last two weeks are, you know, whatever, week of tennis hasn't been about tennis for me.  So just, you know, just trying to do the right things and, you know, just move on as best as I can and, you know.
Q. How did you reorganize your thoughts last night?
STEVE JOHNSON: You know, again, last night it was a little easier -- hard in a way because I had served for the match and shouldn't have been thinking about tennis but I was still winning the match and had a chance to come out and regroup today.
Just tried to as much as I could focus on the positives about being, you know, I was up two sets to one and still ahead in the match.  So I was definitely in a better spot than he was, even though with a new day, you know, momentum kind of ends.  So just I was glad -- you know, didn't play my best tennis at times.  Played pretty well at times.  Just wasn't able to keep it for the whole match and he played well.
Q. When you finally did prevail on match point, what went through your mind?
STEVE JOHNSON: Just a lot of the emotions.  You know, my dad, you know, he was such a big part of my tennis life.  Yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT