U.S. OPEN
September 1, 2016
Steve Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. DEL POTRO/S. Johnson   
7-6, 6-3, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What do you think went wrong out there tonight?  
STEVE JOHNSON: I didn't play my best tennis.  You know, that happens.  I don't think I played my best tennis this week while I've been here, but I found a way to get through day one.   
It's tough, play your best tennis against a guy as good as Juan.  He played great, served great.  Had a bad 10 or 15 minutes where shots were kind of going sideways in the second when I was up a break.  Kind of unfortunate timing for a bit of a dry spell on my side.   
 Q.  How did it feel playing on Ashe?  
STEVE JOHNSON: I felt fine.  I didn't feel nervous at all, which is a good thing.  I felt nervous at Wimbledon this year playing on Centre.  I didn't feel nervous at all.  I just didn't execute what I needed to execute tonight.   
 Q.  How were you seeing his serve throughout the match?  
STEVE JOHNSON: Clearly not very well.   
 Q.  They were saying Ashe is very loud this year with the roof.  Did you feel that when you were out there?  
STEVE JOHNSON: Yeah, it was definitely louder than most courts.  But the atmosphere was great.  I didn't have a problem with it.   
You watch as a kid night matches on Ashe.  Finally got a chance to play in one.  Pretty happy I was out there.  Definitely not my last time, so I'll learn from this experience and get better.   
 Q.  Both forehand dominant guys, slice a lot of backhands.  Playing someone who plays similar, did that similarity play into the match?  
STEVE JOHNSON: No.  Look, you have a game plan going out playing anybody regardless of which wing is better.  I just didn't execute the game plan tonight.  Had a chance to do well in the second.  Had my chance to get back on serve in the third.   
I've been winning a lot of those points in the past three months.  Unfortunately today I didn't win those points to get back in it.   
You know, not going to hang my head.  Going to take a few weeks off and get ready to finish the year strong.   
 Q.  You faced a lot of forehands on the tour.  Where does his rank?  
STEVE JOHNSON: His is good.  Look, I think everybody's got a great forehand.  I think he relies on his more obviously than some guys, like myself.  He's a great player.  Look, he's 6'6", great serve, can move well, long wingspan, gets his racquet on a lot of balls.  That's why he's a Grand Slam champion.  He's no slouch.   
 Q.  Doesn't feel like it's coming at you any differently?  
STEVE JOHNSON: I think everybody has a different style.  You look at Jack's forehand, my forehand, Rafa's forehand.  Everybody has a different forehand.  Hard for me to say which one is better.  They're all very strong parts of their game and very unique.   
 Q.  How do you feel about your performance in big tournaments this year?  
STEVE JOHNSON: I feel like half the year has been pretty good, half the year has been not so good.  Thank goodness it's a long year.  Glad I turned it around on the grass.   
Yeah, I've still got a lot of big tournaments.  There's a lot of big tournaments at the end of the year in Asia and back in Europe.  Look forward to get the body right, the mind right, getting ready to go.   
 Q.  Does it feel different as the American No. 1?  
STEVE JOHNSON: Last I checked John was No. 1.   
 Q.  You were higher seed.  
STEVE JOHNSON: But look, I mean, I've said it the last three weeks knowing it was going to happen.  John is still No. 1 in my eyes.  I still look up to him, both physically and in tennis.   
He's our No. 1 guy in my eyes.  We're doing all we can to help him out, hopefully push everybody higher and higher.  I'm not trying to beat John by any means.  I want myself and I want John to push each other from 20 to 15 and 15 to 10.   
It was great while I had it.  That's tennis.  You know, things are going to happen.   
 Q.  Because you had a good summer, do you feel more mentally exhausted at this point than you have in other seasons?  
STEVE JOHNSON: No.  You know, I play a lot of events in the summer.  I love playing in the States.  Good and bad, I won a lot of matches.  You know, that's okay.  Look, I felt fine here.  I didn't feel tired.  I didn't feel out of gas.  Was a little bit emotionally gassed from day one here.  But I put a lot of pressure and nerves into my own game.  It was kind of my fault.  But I'm glad I found my way out of that one and had a chance to play today.   
 Q.  Behind-the-back shot, is that something you practice?  
STEVE JOHNSON: Usually I hit 30 to 40 of those a day in practice, so...   
No, I mean, I don't know.  I didn't want to hit a backhand, so I hit it behind the back.   
 Q.  What did you see in del Potro?  Did you see the 142nd player in the world, did you see a former champion, a potential champion?  
STEVE JOHNSON: He's not 142 in the world by any means?  Off the top of my head since Wimbledon, he beat Stan, had a great Olympics.  I mean, the guy's a tennis player and a damn good one at that.  I think it's only a matter of time if he can stay healthy, and hopefully he does, because he's good to have around on the tour.   
 Q.  What are you looking forward to doing most?  
STEVE JOHNSON: Going home and not playing tennis.  Just being on the beach doing nothing.  That's about it.  When I get off the tennis court, I don't think about tennis.  I probably won't watch this tournament much.   
Hopefully Sam and I do well in doubles.  After that, I won't watch much of this event unless John is doing well, those guys.  That's about it.  When I go home, tennis will be the last on my list until I get ready for Asia.   
 Q.  Did anyone from the organization give an answer to you about your complaint about the wild card for del Potro?  
STEVE JOHNSON: That's a stupid question.  Not once did I say he didn't deserve it.  Everyone here, just get that clear.  That was a really stupid question because, look, the guy won here.  Never said it.  Just kind of a bummer I played him today.  That's about it.   
But, no, he deserved the wild card.  Finalist in the Olympics and had Andy on the ropes.  That's about it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT