WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 18, 2016
Steve Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. JOHNSON/J. Tsonga
6-3, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Congratulations.
STEVE JOHNSON: Thank you.
Q. He hit an ace to go up 6-3 in the breaker and you won the next five points.  How were you able to turn that around?
STEVE JOHNSON: I don't know.  You know, I mean, at that point you just have to look at it as being down -- I was down one mini break.  That was it.
It's it not like he was serving at 6-3 so he had two good looks.  I just took care of business on my serve.  Kind of hope he doesn't hit an ace and I can get in a point.  Took my chance at 5-6.  It worked.
Then got another look on the second serve at 6-All and was fortunate to get out of there.
Q. How much of it is part of the Olympic affect and winning a medal over there and getting that confidence?
STEVE JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean, it's a lot to do with my summer overall in general.  But to go to Rio - I've said to a bunch.  To get a chance to play the Olympics for your country is an honor.  To then have a chance to win a medal is even better.  To come home with a medal, it's something I'll never forget and it's definitely one of the bigger highlights of my career.
Q. When the new rankings come out on Monday you'll be the top -- ranked American based on this win.  What does that mean to you?
STEVE JOHNSON: Hasn't sunk in yet.  I just found out, so it's an honor.  You know, it really is.  John has held that spot for a while, and I'm just glad that there are a bunch of Americans pushing towards the top, you know.
It's not a one-person effort.  It's a group effort.  We just try our best to win as many matches as possible.
Q. Draw is opening up now.  Three seeds in a row go out.  Grigor next.  Thoughts on that match?
STEVE JOHNSON: Grigor is a great player.  He's very athletic.  Must have played great today.  I didn't watch much of his match.
You know, I played him at Wimby, but here is a new surface, a new week.  On any given day anybody out here can win.  Just going to relax the rest of the day, come out tomorrow, and just do what I always do and go out there and lay my heart on the line.  Hopefully I come out the winner.
Q. Do you think it's affected this tournament much coming right after the Olympics?
STEVE JOHNSON: Yeah.  You know, it's not the best time of year for the Olympics for tennis, to say the least.  I think Toronto got hit hard.  Karl, again with the Olympics every couple years the tournament director up there gets hit hard.
It's unfortunate because that's a great event.  I really enjoyed my time up there this year.  Guys have to be smart.  It's tricky playing a Masters, going to South America, coming back here with the US Open in ten days' time or whatever it is.  It's a tough time the year.
This is why you see a lot retirements or pull-outs.  Guys are thinking bigger picture.  It is tougher for the schedule with the Olympics being in the heart of two Masters Series.
Q. You've been building momentum over the last year.  Do you believe it's more about physicality and improving technique or more mentality and handling the big moments?
STEVE JOHNSON: I mean, it's everything.  As an athlete, you want to get better regardless of what area of the game it is.  Mentally, physically, forehand, backhand, you name it.  You're always -- you're out there every day to get better.  That's the mentality I have as a tennis player.
Just in the big moments, like today at 5-6, I had the confidence that I could hit that forehand.  I think that's a big weapon for me.  As long as I have that feeling, I think I'm a dangerous player.
Q. As you've worked your way up, the fan attention, I would assume, has increased as well.  Today you had lots of people yelling to you by name, chanting, USA, USA.  What has that transition been like?
STEVE JOHNSON: You know, it's funny.  I enjoy flying under the radar.  You know, I'm just a simple guy who just enjoys playing tennis.  It is different being here kind of with that atmosphere of winning a bronze medal.  You don't realize how big it is until you come back, that everybody is so happy for you.  That's the one thing that really sticks out.
It is a little weird, but I'm just still a simple guy from California who enjoys playing tennis.
Q. Can you actually be a simple guy in what is a not normal lifestyle?
STEVE JOHNSON: Yeah, I think so.  I mean, I hope so.  I got a lot of I guess recognition here at a tournament, but every time I go home nobody knows who I am, which is fine with me.  I enjoy walking the streets in Redondo and biking down the Boardwalk and being another guy enjoying the California sunset.
Q. I heard two fans sitting behind me commenting about your facial hair and Jo's facial hair, if it's hot or if it's hotter.  I am curious, in the heart of the American summer is that a consideration?
STEVE JOHNSON: I don't know.  It is different.  Every time I go to serve there is a lot of water coming out of there.  I don't know.  I think if I shave I have like a baby face, so I keep a little scruff.  It's American, I guess.
Q. This was a top-ten win for you.  What did that mean?
STEVE JOHNSON: It's great.  I didn't even actually know that.  I had my first one earlier this year, and to get another one is great.  You know, I'm starting to come into my own and I really feel comfortable in those moments.
That's the most important thing for me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT