MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 6, 2018
Harry Ellis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How satisfying was that last nine for you today?  
HARRY ELLIS: That was pretty good. I wish I played like that the other holes, but I don't know, I mean like I said to you yesterday, Wednesday I felt really, really good and I was very optimistic where my game was at and unfortunately it took me so many holes to find something, but obviously I missed a couple of easy chances for birdie on 13 and 15. But that was, for me, a proud finish in a way to finish off the last seven. So I take a lot of focus from that and what an incredible experience.  
   
 Q. What clicked for you on the back nine? Was there anything in particular?  
HARRY ELLIS: Nothing really particular, I think I probably just settled down and just completely settled down and just played golf and had like one swing thought that came into mind and it seemed to pay off. It was how I normally drive it in terms of straightness and length as well. So it was definitely there at the end and I would like to just keep going, but I think sometimes golf is so simple and we over complicate it. But like I said, that's probably a really good seven holes.  
   
 Q. The conditions tougher today, too?  
HARRY ELLIS: It wasn't easy, it was a bit more breeze there and obviously that drys out the greens a little bit. But arguably when it was probably its hardest, the last seven, I played great. That's just the crazy thing about golf. It's a good test and you see the scores as well, obviously like the names I've seen on TV for many years, no one's really burning it up by the looks of things, but they're playing some solid golf and that's what this place is all about.   
   
 Q. Your biggest takeaway from the week?  
HARRY ELLIS: Biggest takeaway would probably just be having the opportunity to play it, because I think, had it all gone like the last seven holes, it would have been okay, I would have been right there. But sometimes when you go through the hardship and you‑‑ shooting an 86 yesterday shakes you up a little bit, no doubt about it. I feel like I'm mentally tough, but the last seven holes, to be able to figure it out eventually is, that's the character building and something that I can use going forward now. So it wasn't the two days I wanted, but at the same time I've got a lot more out of it than I could ever imagine.  
   
 Q. What was your thoughts when you came off the first green after posting a 7?  
HARRY ELLIS: Well, yeah, I doubled the first hole again and so, I don't know, I wanted to hit a little cut driver up there and didn't actually have a shot and then obviously a three‑putt as well. The mind was racing there. That's tough to take, it's not the way you want to start. But like I said, that's golf and you deal with it and like I said, to be able to finish the round like I did, I'm pleased.  
   
 Q. What's next for you then?  
HARRY ELLIS: Back to school next week. Back to the reality. Then get myself ready for our conference championships and then to NCAA's and then as long as we go, we will go quite far into NCAA's and then we have the U.S. Open to play for as well. So I've got a nice run of tournaments, I need the rest, I need to digest everything that's happened a little bit and then move forward. But I'm still very positive.  
   
 Q. When are you thinking of turning pro then?  
HARRY ELLIS: I'm still a little unsure right now. Still a little unsure. There's still a few things to sort out, but that's natural, that's something that you just have to do naturally.  
   
 Q. When you won the British Amateur what was the thing you were looking forward to the most, was it the Open Championship or the Masters‑‑  
HARRY ELLIS: All three. I mean, it's just fantastic opportunities. Obviously this is unique because it's so hard to be a part of this field and the invitation and I'm very honored to have an invitation to come and play in the Masters, but yeah, definitely all three.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT