WNBA FINALS: MONARCHS v SUN
September 19, 2005
Ticha Penicheiro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TICHA PENICHEIRO:  We need one more game.  And if we keep our focus and we play like we have been playing all season, we can get it done tomorrow and win a championship. 

Q.  The close-out game they say is always the toughest game. 

TICHA PENICHEIRO:  It's true.  They have been in this position before.  They want a championship as bad as we do.  And they know that their backs are against the wall and sometimes teams perform better when their backs are against the wall.  They know there is no tomorrow if they lose.  So we just have to have that frame of mind of not relaxing and not focusing, because there will be a Game 5 if we do that.  So we have to come ready to play, focused, with the same energy and effort that we had yesterday and in Game 1.  And I think if we do that, in front of our fans, I think we'll be okay and we'll get out of here with a W.

Q.  Isn't it dangerous to know that if you lose, you have another game, because you really don't want to go back to Connecticut, right?

TICHA PENICHEIRO:  No.  No, we don't.  It's not just the flight and going across country, it's playing in Connecticut.  It is a tough place to play.  They're very comfortable at home and we don't want to do that.  But like I said, we just can't get comfortable, because we know that we have that possibility.  And they know that if they lose tomorrow, their season is over.  So we just have to continue to play Monarchs basketball, continue to be hungry and know that we have not attained our goal.  Because winning two games doesn't give us a championship. 

Q.  Do you notice a look in Yo's eye like now that she's not going to let you lose? 

TICHA PENICHEIRO:  I hope so.  I think everybody should have that look.  Starting with her and all the way down to the 11th player.  We all have to be hungry; we can't depend on one person to get the job done.  We haven't operated like that the whole season and we are not going to let it happen tomorrow.  Because she does a lot for this team, but she can't do it by herself.  So we definitely have to help her out. 

Q.  Is the team having as much fun as it looks like they're having?

TICHA PENICHEIRO:  Oh, yeah, this is fun.  Sometimes we get so caught up in focusing and getting ready for the game that you don't absorb it all.  So I think that if we all win or when we all win tomorrow, then we can celebrate.  Now I don't think -- even winning yesterday, I was happy that we won, but it wasn't like I was overexcited, because we haven't done anything. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT