WNBA FINALS: MONARCHS v SUN
September 17, 2005
Ticha Penicheiro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What happened on the double team?  Was that at all a planned scheme? 
 
TICHA PENICHEIRO:  That was a breakdown in our defense.  We talked about it in the huddle that we didn't need, they needed to hit a three-point shot and for us to protect the three-point line, and if somebody drives to the basket, to let them go.  I mean, we knew they needed a three-pointer.  And that's a breakdown in our defense.  I don't know if it's because we were wanting to help so much, but you got to, at that point in the game, you just have to be, we have to be smarter than that.  And we can't let a three-point shooter like that have all the time in the world to set up for a shot.   
 

Q.  Have you put that behind you now as a team? 
 
TICHA PENICHEIRO:  Yeah, we have to.  We could be up 2-0 but it's 1-1 and the bottom line is that we're still in a good position.  We play two games in Arco, where we have a 19-2 record.  And so we just have to take care of business and continue to be hungry and know that we don't want to go back to Connecticut and we want to win the championship and so we know we have to take care of business the next two games.  
 

Q.  Is it a good feeling to be 1-1 here or is it somewhat disappointing that you feel like you should be 2-0? 
 
TICHA PENICHEIRO:  The way the game ended I didn't feel like we played our best and we had a great chance to win the game.  So we're a little disappointed in a way that we should have got those two games and we could be up 2-0.  But, if you would have asked me if you would take a 1-1 split coming back here, knowing that Connecticut is a great team and playing at their place is a tough place to play, we probably would have said we would take it.  So when you win the first game and looking at the way we played the second game and still having a chance to win, you think you could get a little greedy and everybody would rather be up 2-0 but I guess it gives our fans a chance to watch two games at home.   
 

Q.  Can you be honest about the ankle?  How are you feeling?
 
TICHA PENICHEIRO:  I feel good.  Not myself, not a hundred percent.  But it feels good to be back on the court.  Sometimes it's frustrating.  I feel like I don't have my explosiveness and I'm not my normal self, but, hey, you have to suck it up and try to be your best and just rest after the season.   
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT