NCAA WOMEN'S FINAL FOUR
March 28, 1997
Mery Andrade
Wendy Larry
Clarisse Machanguana
Ticha Penicheiro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








WENDY LARRY: Let me just say that  this basketball team never ceases to amaze me.  They continually find a way to win and when they go down 15, they don't die.  They fight back, and then they have enough to go into overtime with two starters sitting on the bench, and the bench has the heart to love the battle and make it happen.  And then you talk about a  Stanford team that left everything out there.  Truthfully, if Old Dominion had taken care of the ball in regulation, we probably could have won it in regulation but Stanford fought us off.  And then we go to overtime, and we are here.


Q.   Clarisse, can you describe the sequence where Jamila  was taking a shot at the end?  Did it seem to confuse you where something was flying out at her?

CLARISSE MACHANGUANA: Just a little bit weak and to stand in front of her and take advantage of my height and let her see the basket.  She saw that and she went to take a dribble.  I don't know if I jumped  at the same time that she moved. I'm just glad.


Q.   Ticha, you got on Kate in the first half but in the second half she didn't make a basket.  Will you describe your defense on Kate, please.

TICHA PENICHEIRO: I think she made all the baskets in the first half  and was unstoppable.  I think Stanford was really getting the break and sometimes I had to go in the play and stop it and she was left wide open and followed.  In the second half we knew and we talked about in the locker room, in order to stop Stanford we had to stop Kate Starbird, and if we had to win the  game, we had to stop her and we did better in the half.


Q.   Why were you able to?

TICHA PENICHEIRO: I think the team got together.  We just tried, you know, on the floor with defense and don't give them any open shots in transition.  And somebody had to be in the face in order for you to get  the baskets and be wide open. That's why she made so many baskets in the first half.  In the second half, she just --


Q.   Clarisse, can you just talk about the difference in your play in the first and second half, what you did, what they said to you half time and what the difference  was.

CLARISSE MACHANGUANA: Sometimes I have the mistake when my shot doesn't come naturally and I just focus on defense.  At half time Coach Larry pretty much told me about my scoring and performance on the floor and she told me that the free throw area was wide open, and I  had to do something.  And I feel like I'm the second time to get the ball and put it in, and that's what I tried to do.


Q.   This is for Mery.  Can you describe how you felt when you got the last foul down the stretch before you fouled out?  Can you give me your thought on that? 

MERY ANDRADE: I was amazed but I always trust my teammates and one of the thing we make a big emphasis in practice is try to trust each other, and I just tell them that you guys can do it even without me, because in practice you guys play against us and still do good.  So this team is not different from our practice.  So  you just got to go have a big heart.


Q.   Any of the players, just talk about that last 12 seconds with Stanford getting the free shots like that.

TICHA PENICHEIRO: It was like once again, that luck is part of the game and has been on our side.  And the  players have a chance to shoot the ball and then make it, and we just happen to win the game.  I had a shot and the game could be over earlier, if I miss a shot. Sometimes it goes in and sometimes it doesn't.  I am just very excited that we won.


Q.   Ticha, has it sunk in  how great a basketball game you just played?

TICHA PENICHEIRO: The team played a great basketball game, not just me. I mean, it was a team effort and we knew we had to step up.  I think we were not playing very good defensively, and in the past games everybody had to come ready to  play.  This was definitely a team effort and I think everybody did a great job.


Q.   Ticha, the last couple of games you, yourself, didn't really seem to be playing like yourself.  Tonight it looked like the old Ticha, very aggressive, going to the basket.  Talk about how  you felt before the game and after the game.

TICHA PENICHEIRO: Just so excited to be here.  This is everything that we worked since the beginning of the season.  We sat down and said we have to go to the Final Four.  We got to win the National Championship.  This is a team goal  and today I knew as a Captain, senior, point guard, that I had to be out there, and as good as my teammates are, they follow me. Before the game we were so excited in the locker room to have a chance to be here and play in the semifinal against Stanford.  We were confident because we beat them before.  We  just played our game and we won.


Q.   Coach, you have beaten Stanford twice.  You obviously have a secret.  What is it?

WENDY LARRY: You know, I think that when I finally got a stat sheet, Stanford has thrown the ball away against Old Dominion, I think, perhaps more than they have against  anybody else.  Statistically, I see the number of points that we scored in the paint, it is unbelievable to me that we almost doubled the production of points in the paint against Stanford because I think their defense is outstanding.  Let me say the effort that Clarisse made in the second half from the tip of  the second half horn until the conclusion was just unbelievable. We said we had to get her to ball. If we could just get her to shoot the ball once and score, that she could really score for us.  That's why we did it initially and fortunately, she scored and we were able to get her back into the flow. 


Q.   Coach, I know that you talked about the second half with Clarisse and Ticha.  Can you talk about the first half to keep you all close.  It could have gotten ugly if you were not able to get back if she didn't have such a strong first half.

WENDY LARRY: Not only scoring in the  paint but being the force in the paint, what was a very fresh Stanford team with an awful lot of confidence.  When they went on that long run, just to stay with them, with Clarisse really struggling, it was quite a credit.


Q.   You were able to take over the paint.  How were you able  to take over the paint?

WENDY LARRY: In the first half we didn't.  Nyree was able to on the offensive glass and made a couple of great moves.  In the second half we were able to get the ball with a short and post player so they had to defend the perimeter.  First half they could sit down in the lap of  our post players.  Second half we got it in more from the wing and they weren't able to do that because it was a perimeter play.


Q.   Coach, the second straight game that Natalie Diaz came off the bench and had a major impact on the game.  Can you talk about the player of a freshman playing in two  huge games like this and what you asked her to do.

WENDY LARRY: I think the most impressive stat about Natalie, she didn't turn the ball over once.  We are talking about a young lady that really struggled early in the year and had a hard time getting regulated but has really started to  work very hard in the weight room and changed her strength and her conditioning level significantly.  I think she will have a wonderful career in Old Dominion.


Q.   Coach, what was the adjustment on Starbird in the half and what you were telling her.

WENDY LARRY: Find her because we  lost her four times and she scored four open 3s.  We had Mery Andrade play her and Mery is by far a defensive stopper.  She is a very physical player, obviously, and I think that really distracted Kate a little bit because she was more concerned about protecting the ball.  Ticha plays good defense but  she contains more than pressure. She we gave Kate a little kind of a different look.


Q.   Probably because you were behind looked like you picked your defensive pressure middle way through.  They couldn't inbound the ball a few times?  Is that aggressive by design? 

WENDY LARRY: These young ladies can step up and do a phenomenal job on getting over and talking to each other and fighting through.  Now we got to a point where we switched pretty good and it is effective.


Q.   Coach, other than the game plan for the second half, at half time, did you have to pick them  up emotionally at all?  What was the players' attitude?

WENDY LARRY: Actually I stole the line.  I said we could pack it up and go home and we had a great season.  Or we could compete to go for a championship.  I guess they wanted to compete and go to a championship. 


End of FastScripts....


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT