ROSE BOWL GAME: OREGON v FLORIDA STATE
December 27, 2014
Jimbo Fisher
Mark Helfrich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MICHAEL COLGLAZIER:   Our first team is making their seventh appearance in the Rose Bowl.   They won the Rose Bowl back in 2012.   Their very impressive victory over Arizona in the Pac‑12 Championship Game got them here today for the special trip to Pasadena.   
Ladies and gentlemen, please help me welcome the coach of the Oregon Ducks, Mark Helfrich.   
COACH HELFRICH:   All right.   Well, thank you on behalf of the University of Oregon, to Michael, everybody at Disney, Rich, and everybody at the Tournament of Roses, it's just an awesome honor to be here to represent not only our team, our players, our fans, our university, but the great Pac‑12 Conference.   
Thank you and congratulations to Florida State and their fans for being here as well.   
I have five of my closest friends here today to enjoy Disney.   Our families are here, which is a great, great honor to be able to have them here as well.   It was encapsulated‑‑ we have an 8‑year‑old son, almost 8 years old, and a 4‑year‑old daughter‑‑ when I got a text of them having a great time, and it said "Best Day Ever."   So perfect.   
My guests today, first of all, from Bucharest, Romania, by way of Los Angeles, Hroniss Grasu; from Portland, Oregon, Keanon Lowe; from parts unknown, Hamani Stevens; from Rancho Cucamonga, right here in California, Tony Washington; and from the 808, Honolulu, Hawaii, Marcus Mariota.   
Thank you.   Go Ducks!   
MICHAEL COLGLAZIER:   Thanks, Coach Helfrich.   
Our next team recently defeated the Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets in the ACC Championship Game to earn their trip to the Rose Bowl.   They are also the reigning college football National Champions, and they're the only team to go undefeated this season.   
Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome the head coach of the Florida State Seminoles, Jimbo Fisher.   
COACH FISHER:   It's hard to do, get lost on the way up here.   They took care of me.   We're very excited to be out here.   Like I say, in our part of the country, it's a great honor to come to the Rose Bowl.   You don't think you'd ever get a chance to play in this game, and to be out here for two consecutive years, it's an amazing event.   
Our first trip to Disneyland.   We've been to Disney World.   We've never been to Disneyland.   It's our first trip out here.   We're very excited to be here.   It's a great time.   Our experience has been wonderful.   We're looking forward to a great game, and like I said, the history of the Rose Bowl last year, I don't know if I've ever walked in a stadium like that.   I understand why it's called the granddaddy of them all.   It's an honor to be here as well.   
We have some great guys with us.   We have our Groza Award‑winning kicker from a year ago and a two‑time All‑American, Roberto Aguayo; our defensive end, Mario Edwards from Galveston, Texas; from D.C., offensive tackle Eddie Goldman; from Albany, Georgia, wide receiver Rashad Greene; and our Heisman‑winning quarterback from Birmingham, Alabama, Jameis Winston.   
MICHAEL COLGLAZIER:   Thanks, Coach Fisher.   We have both of the teams here.   Enjoy a great day at the Disneyland Resort.   We just can't wait to see this game get going and get played out.   
Now, to celebrate the inspiring performances and the coaching that we've had from both of these teams this season, we've got a special commemorative keepsake for each of the teams.   
Coach Helfrich, Coach Fisher, would you please come up here and join me.   We'd like to present each team with a gift that commemorates your visit here at the Disneyland Resort.   Coaches, I hope both of you, and especially all the players, continue to pursue your dreams on the field and off.   
Congratulations to each of you.   Let's get ready for the Rose Bowl.   Well done.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT