ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 15, 2017
Jimbo Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








COACH FISHER: Had a very hard-fought game last week with Clemson.  They did a great job.  Have a great team.  Did a great job in the game.  Our kids competed very well.  Had opportunities in the tend to pull it out and just didn't make a play and they made the plays they had, so congratulations to them.
We're getting ready to play Delaware State.  We need to play three great games down the stretch and we need to play this one first.  Need to prepare well and practice well, and actually have had two really good practices this week.  Kids really very spirited and kids were in a great mindset and I thought practiced very well.  Need to continue that and play great football down the stretch.
Questions.
Q. I saw Delaware State this year when they played up against Delaware, how do you prepare for a team that you have never played before.  We don't play the MEAC that much.  How do you get ready for a team like that?
COACH FISHER: Well, I mean, same way.  With the amount of film that is out there, you can see what they do and how they do it.  And of course you talk to other people that have you've talked to that play them and guys you know that do it.
So it's a very typical-type thing even though you aren't played.  Our world is so social media active; there's not much out there that you don't find out or don't know.  Not that you don't know how to play them or those things -- if you've never played them before, but as far as when they do and how they did things, it would be very normal:
Q. What is the three keys for you guys to pull out a win on Saturday?
COACH FISHER: Again, going back and play with consistency.  Play, starting the game fast, playing with great consistency, taking care of the football, not giving up big plays, making big plays and playing with great consistency throughout the game.
Q. I forgot to ask you a question earlier.  When do you start evaluating for next season's talent?  I know we have three games left and you want to get a Bowl game, but when do you start evaluating for next year?
COACH FISHER: After this season's over.  This season we still have a lot to play for, and the team needs to play very well and you do that when the season's over.
Q. Could you talk a little bit about the progress Cam has made this season, and as a freshman, how his development has done?
COACH FISHER: Played very well.  He's developing very well.  We think he has an outstanding career.  His roles in the team and the little things in which he can do within our offense; of course, we know he can run the football and catch it and do those kind of things with the ball in his hand.  But he's really becoming a complete player and I think has an unbelievable future.
Q. Defensively, are there any standouts you'd like to point out at this stage of the season?
COACH FISHER: I thought this week I think Brian Burns and Derwin James were playing well.  Derrick Nnadi has had an outstanding year for, us and Matthew Thomas has made a lot of tackles but those guys have really jumped out.  DeMarcus Christmas has quietly had one heck of a year that has allowed for a lot of things to develop and do and very proud of him.  Josh Sweat, also.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT