ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 25, 2013
Jimbo Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		  JIMBO FISHER:   Very pleased with our team's performance against Bethune.   Went out and did the things we had to do in the game, got better in a lot of little areas, still always looking to improve, have room to improve in everything, but knowing we have to getting back into conference play. 
Going to play Boston College who's 2‑1, having a very good year, very well‑coached, play very hard, very sound, very tough, have a lot of good players, very tough place to play.   Any time you have to play in this league on the road it's very tough, and we're going to have to bring our "A" game, be ready to play.   I know they will.   They've had an off week and two weeks to prepare.   We'll definitely have to bring our "A" game to play, and it should be one heck of a ballgame. 

Q.   Talk about playing up in Boston College, up in Chestnut Hill, how difficult is it to play at that stadium?
JIMBO FISHER:   It's very tough.   They've got a great atmosphere, good environment.   They take a lot of pride.   That's a very physical, tough team, and they play well at home, always have.   Have always battled us extremely tough there. 

Q.   Talk about their offense and defense.   What do you guys have to work on to get a win over Boston College?
JIMBO FISHER:   Well, Boston College obviously has a great runner.   Mr.Williams is a very physical, strong guy, big back, going to have to tackle well, can't let him push yards.   The line is very physical and strong.   The receiver has great‑‑ 83 does a very good job of running routes, double‑move guy.   You see at quarterback great arm strength, gets it to all parts of the field. 
I think on our side of the ball, as far as offensively, they have to‑‑ we have to be able to control the line of scrimmage.   They give multiple looks.   They blitz and bring tons of pressure packages, different coverages in the secondary.   Brown does a great job, always has, and they're very well‑coached, so we're going to have to be sound for three‑down, four‑down, two‑down, no‑down, backers, different nickel‑dime packages.   They're a very well‑schooled team, and special teams are very sound.   Kickoff guy, very rarely do you ever get a kickoff; he kicks it out of the end zone about every time. 
I mean, they do a great job. 

Q.   There were quite a few really lopsided games Saturday, Ohio State, Miami, you guys, playing really outmatched opponents, created some kind of debate I was listening to on the radio coming in today, should that kind of game be played when it's really for the little team just for money.   Do you accomplish a whole lot in a game like that? 
JIMBO FISHER:   I think you do because you get experience.   Let me ask you this:   The 10 1‑AA teams that beat 1‑A teams, do you think they thought the same thing?   There's been 10 victories.   We've said that.   There's been as many victories as there has been blowouts.   I think there's a lot of quality opponents, and I think for those guys, anytime you play a game and play live‑‑ we didn't expect our game to be like that, we just happened to do some good things, but that was a very good team.   And you get guys experience, get guys playing time, you get them on the field. 
And I say this, too, at the other end of that, it really helps their athletic departments and the financial part of it to support their programs, which is all part of college football is to help the student athlete and to help other sports and kids.

Q.   When a game does turn out to be over the course of the game lopsided, at what point do you start thinking about doing things to avoid running up the score? 
JIMBO FISHER:   Well, I think any time, you never want to embarrass your opponent, but at the same time your kids practice very hard, so when they get a chance to play you want to be able to do the things they do.   There's a way to do it and still let them execute in the game and you get your starters out and you let your backups play.   I think that's a very critical part of it.   That's something we definitely did, because we had Jamison and those guys out by the first drive of the second half.   We were fortunate to be able to do that.   Sometimes you have to do that from a health standpoint, also.   You play 11 big‑time games every year, or 12, sometimes you don't have enough healthy guys by the end of the year. 

Q.   In terms of your defense, what's the biggest reason the defense has been so effective this season so far?
JIMBO FISHER:   I think we have a lot of diversity in what we do.   I think we have good players and I think we're coached very well.   I think our coaches and players have been very sound in the schemes they have.   We've played very hard and been very fundamentally sound. 
And when you go back to look at it, it gets back to being fundamentally sound, well‑coached and having good players.   I think we could say all the other things we want, but that's the core of everything you have in football. 

Q.   Would you say a few words about Robert Aguayo, started out perfect and is obviously looking pretty good?   He's obviously on pace to break the single‑season scoring record. 
JIMBO FISHER:   Dadgum it, don't jinx the guy.

Q.   What is he doing so well?
JIMBO FISHER:   Well, I think being consistent, not trying to do too much.   He's just being Roberto.   Everybody kept talking about Dustin and all that.   I think he's just doing a great job of being Roberto, which is a guy that's extremely talented, he has good leg strength and he practices with great intensity and great consistency and has all camp and has since he's been here. 
I think being able to watch Dustin perform and prepare I think has really helped him, and I think he's got a great head on his shoulders, and I think he's just been very consistent for us, and very proud of him. 

Q.   He comes into a program with a lot of tradition at that position.   Is that something that's ever been talked about, or is it just‑‑
JIMBO FISHER:   I think he knows people have kicked there before, and especially the guy before him and the other guy.   I think he definitely does.   I think he feels a responsibility to try and perform well.   But at the same time, I tell him don't worry about that.   You can't be Sebastian Janikowski or Graham Gano or Dustin Hopkins; you just have to be yourself; Gary Siplin.   You just have to be yourself and do what Roberto does, which is plenty good enough, which is why we recruited you here.
You appreciate that, but you can't dwell on that and let that be a pressure thing.   You've just got to be yourself and do what you do. 

Q.   I was curious, do you have any plans to address the all players movement with your team, and what would you kind of tell guys that are interested in joining a silent protest against the NCAA in the middle of the year?
JIMBO FISHER:   Honestly I'm not aware of all the things that are going on.   I guess I've kind of got my head in the sand.   I can't answer that question because I don't have enough information or sources, and probably if it's something‑‑ I'll have our people look at it for me, but I don't have enough knowledge of that situation to even bring up an answer.   I'm sorry. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT