ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 11, 2013
Jimbo Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		  MIKE FINN:   We're now joined by Florida State head coach Jimbo Fisher.   We'll ask coach to give us a brief opening statement and then go to questions. 
    Coach. 
    COACH FISHER:   Very excited to play this Saturday.   Took the off week, got some things done, accomplished in our program, that I thought was needed at the time.   You don't like off weeks this early, but playing a Monday game, not coming back on Saturday, coming out of camp being physically banged up, I thought it came at a good time. 
    Good week and a half of preparation here.   Nevada is an outstanding football team.   Look forward to them coming in.   They have a great tradition, great history.   Excellent players, very dynamic offense, run the pistol set.   Do some really good things. 
    Quarterback is a very dynamic player.   Big receivers.   Had a back go for over a hundred last week.   Starter back this week, do a good job of mixing coverages and fronts.   Do a solid job.   Coach does a great job of coaching them all around. 
    We have a great challenge on our hands, home opener, should be a great challenge watching how our kids respond. 
    Questions. 

Q.   Do you think in the games you've seen so far the season that the implementation of targeting rule has had its desired effect?
    COACH FISHER:   The games I've watched, I haven't seen anything called.   From that standpoint, obviously it must have because I think that's the object.   It's not to catch guys; just to prevent guys from doing things. 
    I haven't seen any instances myself where guys have been ejected.   People have told me about them.   I haven't had a chance to see them. 
    They seem to be down.   I hope we can do it without ejecting young men and teams losing players.

Q.   Do you think there's a general mindset against players knowing there's a severe penalty if you do?
    COACH FISHER:   I don't think there's any doubt.   Any time there's a penalty for something you do wrong, a major penalty, what kids like the most of anything is playing time.   I think that has had an effect.   I don't have any doubt it's definitely in their mind. 

Q.   How was the bye week? 
    COACH FISHER:   We spent some time on Nevada.   First couple days we cleaned up some fundamental things, Wednesday and Thursday of the week before, worked on ourselves, base fundamentals.   Started last Saturday getting ready.   They're going to be a very dynamic team.   Offensively the cause a lot of problems with the things they do.   Fast pace, no‑huddle, pistol set, blitzes, things they've done in the past.   We prepare for them like we do for any other team, but they create some unique situations.

Q.   Watching the Pittsburgh game.   Run and pass is a mix.   Is that what you're going to do against Nevada?
    COACH FISHER:   That's always been my offensive philosophy.   I think you have to be balance.   I don't ever want to be one‑sided because you have two be able to do both to be a good football team and cause the teams two problems instead of one.   You don't want to become a one‑dimensional team.   We love to have balance. 

Q.   I know you had a week off.   Did you get a chance to watch the battle of Florida and Miami?
    COACH FISHER:   I caught the end of it.   We had practice on Saturday.   Caught the very end of it.   Competitive football team.   A lot of great players on both sides.

Q.   What did you see from those games? 
    COACH FISHER:   Two very good football teams.   Miami, play‑makers on offense, good offensive line, backs, quarterback.   Defensively they made tremendous strides, very physical, cause a lot of turnovers.   Kicking game was very good. 
    Florida moves the football up and down.   Turnovers, but still moved the football for 290.   Very powerful, very physical.   Very good players on defense.   Great front seven.   Secondary guys.   One heck of a defense. 
    You saw two very good teams.   We're definitely going to have to play both of them down the road but we're definitely going to have to get a lot better before we play them. 

Q.   Your young quarterback got plenty of acclaim from his first game.   What, if any, improvement are you looking from week one to game two?
    COACH FISHER:   More consistent.   I think you can always get better in every phase.   Sometimes it doesn't always show in stats or numbers, but I think just continue to grow in our offense and get us in and out of the right plays.   We consistently play well around him and let him grow. 
    I think that was one of the things missed in that game.   He played exceptionally well, but so did the guys around him.   That all goes hand‑in‑hand. 
    There's always room for improvement if he gets the knowledge and keeps developing the consistency, which I think he will. 

Q.   Is he ahead of schedule? 
    COACH FISHER:   I think he's practiced very well.   I felt very good about his presence in the spring and in the fall, his knowledge of our offense, the things he was doing. 
    To say it's ahead of schedule, I don't know if I want to say that, but he's playing very well for a young player. 

Q.   Jimbo, I notice y'all ran quite a bit of the pistol against Pitt.   What do you like about the pistol formation?   What do you call the set where you have the offset back there?   Do you have a separate name for that?
    COACH FISHER:   It's still a pistol.   Just add different formations to the pistol.   I ran the pistol four, five years ago when I was here.   You still get the I‑formation, you still get the shotgun reaction quarterback off the ball.   Can still do his zone reads, those kinds of things. 
    It brings some uniqueness along.   We have two split‑back gun runs and we have pistol runs.   It gives you advantages on things we've used in the past.   It's something we're doing now very well.   We'll continue to mix it in. 

Q.   Have the benefits of your indoor facility been what you envisioned? 
    COACH FISHER:   No doubt.   Definitely has.   Whether it's beating the heat or the rain, both scenarios, it's given us an advantage, allowed us to stay on schedule, have a consistent place to work out.   I think in recruiting it's beginning to really help. 
    From a preparation standpoint, it really helped. 
    MIKE FINN:   Coach, thanks for being with us.   Good luck this weekend.   We'll talk to you next Wednesday. 
    COACH FISHER:   Thank you. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT