ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 14, 2012
Jimbo Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


  JIMBO FISHER:   Coming off a very tough hard‑fought victory up in Virginia Tech, who played a great game.   I'm very proud of our kids the way we competed in the game here in adversity and fought through situations.   Very proud of our team the way we competed.   I think we're making a lot of progress in a lot of areas.   We still have some areas we have to fix, but I think that's every week. 
But looking forward to a great game against Maryland this weekend.   Maryland has an outstanding defense.   They do some really nice things on offense, have a dynamic playmaker receiver, a very strong back.   They've had som issues at quarterback because of injury but have still been able to move the ball and do things.   Special teams are very sound.   Like I say, they're the No.2 defense, a very good team.   We'll have to play our "A" game up there on the road and we'll get their "A" game. 
But very excited, had a very good week of practice so far.   Our kids seem very focused and locked into just playing a great game this weekend, and we're looking forward to it. 

Q.   Coming off a good win last week.   Anything in particular you want to do even better this week against Maryland?
JIMBO FISHER:   Well, I think everything.   I think, one, hopefully we'd have a little more consistency on offense, but I give Virginia Tech a lot of credit for what they did on defense.   They played a very good game.   Must play better up front.   Been locking on some things, and then all of the things‑‑ try to hit all the throws instead of just occasionally you're going to miss one or two. 
But defensively I think we played very good against the run.   I think we gave a couple things up in the pass not getting enough pressure.   I think we'll be able to do that.
Then the special teams did a great job except for putting the daggone catch on the ground, and that's something we've been continually working on that's been an issue all year, and we have to make sure we get that fixed.

Q.   What were you pretty pleased with from your defense that you want to keep up this week?
JIMBO FISHER:   Our run depth.   I thought we played great run defense.   I thought our front seven did a tremendous job in the run.   We need to take out a few little runs, but we limited that and made them throw the football and they were not able to establish a true running game consistently in the game, but I thought they did a nice job up front in that area. 

Q.   I just wanted to ask you, I'm just a little confused why you guys are having so much trouble getting traction in the polls.   Do you ever look at the‑‑ I know you made some comments about the BCS, but also the coaches rate you sixth in the country and the writers rate you tenth. 
JIMBO FISHER:   It's all perception.   It's all perception.   I mean, probably where the coaches have us is probably pretty close I would say in my opinion.   That's where I'd put us, up in that same rank.   Whether you have four, five, six, seven or eight there, those teams, Alabama and Florida State and Georgia and Florida and all those teams, Clemson, those one‑loss teams right there, I think that's how you do it. 
And as I said, I didn't understand the whole BCS and that whole thing, and as I looked at it, my biggest thing is I'm not saying this for a Florida State thing; I've said before, this is not a Florida State issue, because Kerwin started explaining to me because I keep getting a lot of questions on it, so I looked at it, and one computer has you not ranked, one has you sixth, one has you 12th. 
My whole thing was how can there be that much disparity.   And that's the thing that concerned me on it.   I don't understand it all, but I think that's a major concern in how we do things, and I think the human element imposed has been to be there, whether it's writers or coaches or whatever.   I think that's an important part of what we're trying to do, and that was my whole deal in that.   I don't know.

Q.   Do you think you guys are being punished for the computers for the schedule thing that was forced on you that was not your fault because you had to replace a top‑quality team with a Division II team?
JIMBO FISHER:   I guess it could be, but I mean, at the same time, our conference at times seems to be getting punished a little bit.   You know what I'm saying?   It seems to be.   Now, I don't know that.   Again, just from an outer appearance, that's the way it goes, I guess. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT