ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 7, 2012
Jimbo Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		  COACH FISHER:   Enjoyed our off week.   As far as that, had great preparation this week, good practices.   Looking forward to going up to Blacksburg.   We'll have a heck of a challenge.   As we know, a Thursday night game, they always play well.   Frank always has his guys ready to play.   They have a great team.   Excited.   They're very athletic on all three phases.   We'll have to be on our A‑game and have a heck of a challenge tomorrow night.   So we're looking forward to it.

Q.   They've had to rebuild their offensive line coming into the year.   They've had to shuffle guys because of injuries.   What do you see from the play of the five guys they've been using most on that offensive line? 
COACH FISHER:   They play hard.   They're well coached.   They play physical.   They'll butt you in the mouth.   They've done a nice job, and they've moved the ball all year.   So those guys have done a very nice job.

Q.   You mentioned the fact that they've been able to generate yards.   They've struggled to generate points.   When you watch them, what do you see preventing them from scoring? 
COACH FISHER:   Well, sometimes they can be‑‑ the other team makes a great play or you have one miss cue in the red zone, and it can set you back.   It's hard.   Every team has that factor, but they are very explosive.   I can't put my finger on why.   I know what's being coached there, but they are very explosive and are capable of scoring a lot of points.

Q.   Virginia Tech's been one of the ACC's consistent winners, but they've struggled this year.   Are you surprised by where they are right now in the standings? 
COACH FISHER:   For a Virginia Tech team not to be at the top, yeah, it does surprise you because they've been there so consistently.   It shows injuries, attrition, things can happen in a season.   They're still the same coaches and have the same players.   They'll still be doing pretty good.   But sometimes the reasons for winning and losing are very small, and sometimes the breaks don't go your way.

Q.   Just in terms of playing out‑of‑state, the only time I think you've done that this year was the N.C. State game.   How important is it as a program to win on the road in order to be successful? 
COACH FISHER:   I mean, we win on the road.   Going to Miami is just as tough as going to N.C. State or anywhere else.   Whether it's in the state and the competition you play, South Florida's got a great team.   It's important to win all the time, at home and on the road.   If you want to be a great team, you have to win on the road.

Q.   Everyone knows how tough Virginia Tech is to play against on Thursday night, especially at home.   What do you feel your team needs to do to secure a win tomorrow night in Lane Stadium? 
COACH FISHER:   We have to play great, sound, fundamental football.   We have to be consistent from the opening snap to the last snap.   They're not going to give you anything.   You have to earn everything you get.   Play consistent in all three phases, play physical, and be able to sustain the surge of energy in the stadium and everything that goes on with playing on the road.   We'll have to be very consistent.

Q.   I want to ask about Vince Williams.   He's played for you in and out over the last couple of years.   Can you talk about Vince as a player and a student and what he brings to you guys defensively? 
COACH FISHER:   One thing, he's already got his degree.   He's already graduated.   Vince is a great leader.   He has great passion for the game.   Loves play, he's very physical.   Affects his teammates and brings energy to practice from the guys that aren't there, and he's making them get up and have that energy.   Very pleased with him, very blessed to have coached him, and he's a great young man.

Q.   Also, Vince's younger brother as well plays for you.   Vince said that he's kind of the opposite as his brother.   I don't know if you could talk about that? 
COACH FISHER:   Yeah, he's more outgoing.   He's quieter at times.   Carlos is a social butterfly.   He's always talking to everybody and being around everybody.   But they're both great young men.   They are different.   One's more outgoing than the other, definitely.

Q.   The ten‑year anniversary of the Devery Henderson catch at Kentucky is coming up?
COACH FISHER:   I got you.   The Bluegrass Miracle.

Q.   What do you remember about that, and particularly the call?   Was there any disagreement on the call going in? 
COACH FISHER:   No, there wasn't.   We had practiced that play, dash right, 93 Berlin.   I can remember it to today.   The thing that was ironic on that is we were backed up inside our pass, hit a pass to Michael Clayton, hit a square and we had one time out left.   Hit a 25‑yard pass to Michael Clayton.   He got on the ground, and we spread it out on the last play.   It was almost an amazement. 
You saw the ball thrown.   The tip happened, and when it hit and I was in the press box, and when it went up in the air, he said, oh, Lord, he's got a chance to hit it, and he did it.   I mean, Devery could fly.   What happened on the play, the receivers got intertwined and Michael switched places and got to be the jump ball guy, tipped and made an adjustment on the run.   Devery got it and once he gets down field, it was gone. 
I sat there in amazement it was one of those ironic and iconic times in your career.   You couldn't believe you just saw what happened.   It was a great team, a great player, and great guys executed that play.

Q.   Clayton was the original intended receiver? 
COACH FISHER:   Well, we're going to get a jump ball guy.   They all got bumped off, and Clayton realized that.   So he made the tip on the play, and then Devery got in behind and caught the tip on the long run.   We'd do that because guys would reroute you as we go down field on that.   As a play, we work that play constantly.   It was something we've worked on in practice every Thursday forever and ever and ever, and it came through.

Q.   Have you ever used that play in a game since? 
COACH FISHER:   Oh, yeah.   I have since.   Hopefully not too many because that's when you're behind a bunch when you get in that situation.   But it's something we have in our arsenal and still do.

Q.   Has it worked since those days?   Has it worked for you at Florida State in a game for you? 
COACH FISHER:   No, in practice it has.   We hit it in practice.   We hit it the other day in practice, as a matter of fact.   We'll keep working that situation. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT