FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 25, 2017
Jimbo Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JIMBO FISHER: Hello, everyone.  We all ready?
After looking at the film at the NC State game, again, credit to NC State.  They have a very good football team, did a great job.  Thought our kids competed in the game very well.  Thought they played very hard.  Thought it was a very physical football game.  It was a really good football game.
There's some areas that we'll get our guys in and coach them up better to be able to execute some different situations a little better in key things, and that's on us as coaches, and that's me as a head coach to make sure that gets done.
Again, our kids cared, and they did a great job of competing in the game.
We have to execute a little better in some situations, but, again, that goes on us as coaches to make sure we can do that at that particular time and give ourselves a chance to be successful in some key moments in the game.
We got to get ready to go play a great Wake Forest team, who's a very, very good football team, who's undefeated.  Defensively, have one of the top teams in the country, and have been, their scheme and what they do.  Offensively, they've gotten much better, got more experience at quarterback and things, and we go.  We'll correct the things today, finish correcting the things today from the NC State game, progress on, and get ready to play a Wake Forest team.
We've got improvement to make.  We made some improvement in areas.  And we'll continue to grow.  I still like the makeup of this team and what we have the ability to do.
Q. Jimbo, when you look back at the film, what would you say are the most critical mistakes that stood out to you in terms of areas of improvement?
JIMBO FISHER: Well, at special teams we were really good, came back in that area.  We have to finish some drives in the red zone.  We had opportunities down there and had plays that we could have made.  I think we've got to get started faster on defense a little bit better.  Hopefully, we can shut guys down and not get behind in that area.  At times which they played really well, we need to get the ball back at the end with a stop, and gave up some third and longs, a couple there.
Offensively, we created some big plays, ran the ball really well.  Had great balance until the two-minute drive before the half, which is an excellent thing to do.  At the end of the game, we got behind two scores and had to pick it up a little bit.  We had some chances there to finalize in those areas.  We just have to continue to grow there.
Some of the I'd say unforced penalties, the penalty areas, we had a couple of penalties we didn't need.  We backed up once, jumped offsides three or four times in that regard.  Hadn't been doing that.  Hadn't been doing that in practice and hadn't been doing that the first game.
Q. Jimbo, any update on Auden Tate and Matthew Thomas?
JIMBO FISHER: Yeah, they'll be day to day.  Nothing that will be season ending or week ending, they'll be day to day and see how they feel when they come out of this, after they have treatments and such today.
Q. How was James physically after the game?
JIMBO FISHER: Really good.
Q. In watching the film, how did you think he graded out overall?
JIMBO FISHER: Thought he did some really nice things.  A lot of little detail things.  He can carry out fakes a little bit better.  He was so worried about making sure he handled the ball off and made the right read and the right check and carry some of those things out, but as far as the passing game, handling the blitz, making decisions where to go with the ball was really good in the game.  Going to the right guy for the right reasons in the right coverage.  Some RPOs, he made really good throws and decisions and had some big plays on it.  If we'd have had a couple other blocks, we could have -- one of them probably would have led to a touchdown in the other.
He did some things I was really, really happy with, was accurate, and gave us a chance to be successful in the game.  Made some critical third down throws and gave us chances in the others.
I thought he had a very solid first game.  For the type of game he was playing, he graded out pretty good.
Q. James hit Auden on the third down, he seemed a little shaky.  After that, he was 9 for his next 11.  Do you think having that success --
JIMBO FISHER: The first pass was a screen, then we ran it.  Then we had a third and six, which was makable, and had a third and long.  We had a penalty on the jump, which he got pressured.  Then he missed Auden on a -- we had a bootleg, which he threw away.  We had a naked, which we should have had -- we had a wide-open comeback, and we didn't seal the edge.  Would have been perfect for him, just trying to boot and move him around the pocket and get a couple of those early.  He threw it away and missed Auden off his fingertips, and after that he got really good.  A couple of those he had contested throws, and the others he just barely missed.  Then he got hot.
That happens.  That's part of the game.  We need to help around him a little bit better.  I didn't think the start -- I thought he was pretty good.  The one throw, like I said, with Auden was a little long on the sideline.  Other than that, early throws, I thought he was really good.
Q. Do you think connecting on that one kind of --
JIMBO FISHER: There's no doubt.  We hit a couple of first downs there.  Then you get that, okay, I got this.  It's like, okay, I can do this.  You know what I'm saying?  Then you get going, and that's like anything.  But it did get him kick started, and he took off.
Q. Did you have any concerns about Blackman heading into Saturday that he answered during the game?
JIMBO FISHER: That noise.  I'm sorry.
Q. Did you have any concerns about Blackman heading into Saturday's game that he answered?
JIMBO FISHER: Yeah, until you ever go out there and do it on the field, does the moment overwhelm the guy?  Does it get too big for the guy?  There's another moment going on the road this week.  A learning curve all the way through.  That first thing of how he communicates and how he can handle failure or success.  He had a couple of failures early, like Tim said right there, then he got hot.  So it was a great sign.
It was funny, he did that in practice the other day.  One of the practices, he started off just a hair slow and wasn't sharp.  All of a sudden -- you know, he doesn't allow it to resonate in him.  He keeps moving on.  That's an important part, especially for young players, because they want to do so good sometimes they become their own worst enemy if they don't have success immediately.
That's a lot of things you wonder until he gets in the game, and he handled all of those situations.  For me, from that standpoint, that's one of the things I like to see.
Q. Jimbo, you mentioned the slow starts defensively.  Is there anything you can pinpoint or ways to improve it?
JIMBO FISHER: We had them in a third and 13.  We got them in a third and 13, throw a screen to get it, and we fit the blocks wrong.  We just got on the wrong edge.  Had a play, got a good call, had a play, we've just got to execute the call better.  We could have had it, and they would have been in a long field goal situation.  One of them came from a penalty, I think.  They got a penalty on a roughing that one of those was on that deal.
There was something else on that drive, if I'm not mistaken.  I can't think off the top of my head.
We've got to start fast, and we do it in practice and play.  We had them in third and long situations in both those drives, in backed up situations.  One we got a penalty, and one they executed a screen pass and got down.  Now, I thought we did a great job in the tight zone down there of really making them kick field goals, and once it forced them to a fourth down play that really was a great effort by their guy and was a touchdown.  We had a great tackle there.  Thought our guys executed down there and didn't give up on the drive.
Got to get off the field in the third downs.  That was the key.  We had them in third down in both situations.  They didn't run the ball well.  Had them in third and long in two or more and didn't execute.
Q. How much harder is it on a freshman quarterback to be playing from behind, and how do you think he responded to that pressure?
JIMBO FISHER: I think he responded very well.  You always want to play from ahead, but sometimes -- I know this may sound crazy.  Sometimes when you call it, you get ahead, and the guys get scared too.  They've got to learn to do that too.  That's another step when you do get ahead, of playing aggressive but intelligent at the same time.
When you're behind, sometimes you can be a little looser in a crazy way.  Those are one-score games.  To me, it was really behind, but after the first two drives, it was a one-score game back and forth.  So it was still very close.  It was kind of like not really playing from behind as much as you would be two or three scores, you know what I'm saying?
But those are all parts of growing, and you have to do it.  I thought he did a real nice job.
Q. James was very expressive, saying things like "my bad" and doing hand motions when he's communicating with you guys.
JIMBO FISHER: He does that.  That's one of the things that encouraged me.  He is a take-charge guy.  He owns up to things that he thinks he can do better.  A lot of things, when it isn't always his fault, he's willing to do that because he always has the team in mind, is what he does.
The qualities that I said about him that I really liked -- remember you hear me in camp talking about this guy, this guy, how I liked him, what he did.  A lot of qualities I see in guys that are very successful, the mental makeup and the psychological makeup I see, and that's kind of the things you're seeing right there.
Q. How big of a difference is communication with him in practice versus during the game?  Did you like how quickly he responded?
JIMBO FISHER: It was very similar.  That's one of the reasons I try to do practice like we do and try to be intense on guys and push guys and challenge guys.  He's a guy that knows it's not perfect.  He loves it.  He's the kind of guys that, when I don't say something -- he did it last week.
He had a couple of plays, and I didn't say anything and I was going on to the next guy.  What's wrong?  Nothing.  I'd have told you, I promise you.  You know what I mean?
But he looks for that engagement.  Deondre does.  Jameis always did that.  They look for that feedback of good or bad to know how they're doing.  I like that out of him, and he likes that.
Q. Specifically with the red zone offense, when you went back and watched the film, what was the biggest issues --
JIMBO FISHER: We had opportunities that were there.  First time we scored a touchdown, did a great job.  The next time -- well, actually the next time was two minute.  We just ran out of time.  Which I still haven't -- I don't understand how they thought there was a time-out, and everybody ran on the field.  So that stopped the whole momentum.  That's a big play in the game people never talked about.
We're in two minute, we clock the ball, and we've got a time-out left, now we've got a shot to run, throw the ball, whatever we want to do for two plays, and they can't get a call in, but their team come on the field for a time-out, and the official said it was -- you know, we have to stand there and wait.  That changed the whole dynamic because all the calls you get and things you can do in two minutes.  That was a big situation.
And then the third one we hit the post route.  He was trying to go, and we hit Auden down there, and we ran an RPO.  If we push cracked it, out there wide, and if we call take two -- the guy's got man, you go crack his guy, and we did it earlier.  If you remember Auden Tate caught one on the sideline from about 17 yards.  Same play.  Same exact deal.  If we executed at that particular time, we would have scored.
Then we had a run.  On third down, they covered the pass and threw it away.  We had the RPO on first down.
The next time we hit the go route to George, had it down on the 12.  We're on a play-action pass.  They covered, went to the back side, and the guy just -- he stumbled and fell out of his route and got sacked.  Then we ran it, and then we had third and long and just missed off Noonie's fingertips down there in that regard.  We ran it the other times.  Ran it and mixed it.
The other time is the end of the game, and we didn't execute.  We had guys open, and we dropped one and got pressure on another on the last drive and could have executed there.  That was the scenarios.  And that's things we work on a lot and we're going to continue to work on.  We'll get them right.
Q. You talked earlier kind of about the onus on you and your coaching staff to do better with the players.  What's the conversation like with you and your staff since Saturday in terms of just how to do that but also about accountability as a whole?
JIMBO FISHER: We're all accountable.  Nobody's backing up.  We're very accountable.  There's nothing about accountability as a whole.  That's there no matter what.  We're accountable for everything that happens.  That's what you do.  That's not a conversation.  We've just got to make our players sort of to understand what we want them to do, how we want them to do it.  If he doesn't understand this, that's communicating a different way.  That's showing more film.  That's does he need more video cut up?  Does he need more this?  We evaluate each guy to help him what we think would make him play better in those scenarios, and that's what we went through, guy by guy, person by...
But we do that after every game, whether we win or lose.  There's not a lot of change as far as that.  When we win, all right, but that guy didn't play as well.  What can we do to get him to play better?  Does he need more video?  Does he need more time?  Does he need more reps on the field?  Does he need more walk-through time?  Certain players learn differently.  So it's a very similar situation win or lose, believe it or not.
There's no magic dust or magic thing that makes you meet more, play more.  We meet and do as much as we can, but we've got to evaluate what we're doing, what works, what doesn't work, and how to get each player to be more successful.
Q. Can you give us an update on Dontavious Jackson?  I haven't seen him on the field very much this season.
JIMBO FISHER: He was hurt for most of and was out for almost -- a long time.  And some of the other guys just in that scenario getting back in playing shape and playing have played.
Q. Jimbo, going back to look at the offensive line, what are things that you liked what they did on Saturday, things that maybe they needed to work on in hindsight?
JIMBO FISHER: We missed a couple of chips on Chubb, which we should have had, to help some guys that were schemed in there.  And then allowed us -- one of them cost us a big play.  Could have been a possible touchdown.  We just didn't get the chip made.
And then -- you know, we run block pretty well for the most part.  We ran the ball well.  Chubb had some pressure on one.  We got a pressure late inside on a couple twist games and got beat individually.  It was just a one-on-one pass set.  Got to do a better job of clogging the middle a little bit.  Sometimes when your can guy's not there, making sure we get back second level, even if you're slotted this side, your body presence helps on this side.  What's called clogging the middle, we use that term a lot, with your body, and helping the guys inside, because those three techniques to get those two-way goes, it's hard to protect, as the edge guys is sometimes.  In those areas, we've got to do a little bit better job.  Gave up a couple of hits there.  Got to keep chipping, like we did in the first game against Alabama and continued to do it in this game.
Our run blocking was pretty good.  We ran the ball decently well.  Just continue to grow in all those areas.
Q. Hey, Jimbo.  I was watching Blackman on Saturday.  Do you think -- would you consider putting him more in the shotgun to get him adjusted to the speed of college football?  Because when he was under center, he didn't have that time to get back and throw the football.  Looked like he was chasing -- I know NC State had a great defense, but do you think instead of putting him more in the shotgun to get him adjusted --
JIMBO FISHER: He was in the shotgun about 85 percent of the time in that game, if I'm not mistaken.  He was in there a bunch.  The ones underneath, he had a nice post throw -- those were all guns.  There was hardly any of those underneath.  Most of them were all gun.  He might have been in it more than that, if I look at it.  He'll continue to do the things he's got to do in the positions to make him successful.
Q. One more question about the running game.  I know we had some good runs in the first half.  Are we trying to find somebody to replace No. 4?  I know last year he was the offense.  What do we have to get the running game established better?
JIMBO FISHER: We did establish it.  We ran it really well the first half, had good runs.  Two-minute offense in the second half.  The first two out of three possessions, the weird thing about it, we had a post route for 57 that took us down there.  The next drive, we dropped the ball.  Had a little spot route, our tight end slipped up, and we had a first down right there.  Made it third and one, and we dropped it.  The next one, we had a run for three and hit a go route to George down the sideline and got it down there and ran it in the red zone.
After that, I think we got behind a little bit and had to pick it up.  We'll continue to run the ball.  We had great balance.  I'll go back and evaluate that.  We're almost 50-50, almost 55-45.  Those RPOs, a couple of those are really runs.  They're runs (indiscernible).  They give us those things, we take them.  In that regard, we probably caught more runs than we did passes.
Q. Jimbo, you had a couple of big plays in the passing game.  What were your overall thoughts on how the wide receivers played and how they helped?
JIMBO FISHER: We have to improve.  We have to improve in some areas and get better.  I thought they made some plays and blocked well at times.  Receivers, it's such a fine line there, and you've got to be every play, whether it's a block, a run, your route.  You can get the ball on any play, and we've got to continue to grow.
They played a nice game.  We've got to continue to grow there and play a little better.  That's everywhere.  Not just receiver, across the board everywhere.
Q. What were your thoughts on the way Ricky responded late in the second quarter, those three straight time-outs and the fact he was still able to go in and do well with the field goal?  It seems like he --
JIMBO FISHER: He did well with the first field goal.  He had a nice day.  He was 4 for 5.  I wish that first kick was -- I think could have changed the momentum because the first kick was 10-7.  That ties the game up with three minutes to go, then all of a sudden it's a tie game.  Then you're kicking off instead of going up three in the two-minute drive and they scored hit the big play on us, changed the momentum back.  I thought it was a momentum changer.  I thought at the same time, he responded well to that.  Then every kick after that, he kept us in the game.  Made every kick with 4 for 5.
I do wish the first one, I wish he could have made it.  I wish we could have made a throw, wish we could have made a block, wish we could have made a tackle.  I mean, there was a lot of things.  That was another play in the game that was a pretty critical momentum play because it would have tied the game up with three minutes to go in the half.
But at the same time, he responds right back, doesn't let that bother him.  He comes back in the two-minute drive, and we're down two scores, and they called the three time-outs, like you talked about, and then bounced back.  I think that's a sign of his maturity, and he did a heck of a job in that regard.  Very proud of him in that way.
Q. With Auden specifically, what were some things you were seeing on film that allowed him and James to get in the groove and have nine receptions in the game?
JIMBO FISHER: I think the reads took him there.  We tried to get some balls there, and the other ways give some options where we were going with the football.  I think there were some run formations.  They were playing the run because, once we got the running game going, we were able to hit play action on both of those.  The nice comeback he hit.  The post route was off a hard play action off the runs which we had broken earlier in the game.  They tied into that.
Then the two-minute situations, where they were bringing blitz and trying to pressure the young quarterback, they had him in one-on-one situations and allowed him to go to.  Auden is a big guy and can over the top, but he's really polished his game underneath for his routes and his body size.  I think all that together.  It's a shame he got hurt because he was having one heck of a day and doing a great job blocking too.
Q. Is that a left shoulder injury or a collar bone?
JIMBO FISHER: I want to say it is left shoulder.  Now that you asked that, I'm trying to think off the top of my head.  He hurt the one last year in the Sugar Bowl.  It's the opposite one.  It's the left shoulder.  I'm pretty sure it's the left shoulder.
Q. With him being day to day, I guess, how fortunate is that for James in the passing game?
JIMBO FISHER: To have a guy with his experience to get back of things -- because he's a great player for us.
He's a difference maker.  From a leadership point, experience point, there's so many different things.
Q. Jimbo, can you explain the RPOs?  Because you look at the stats, and your running backs had 20 carries, and I think you dropped back 29 or 30 times.
JIMBO FISHER: All of those bubble routes.  There's eight or nine of them.  I'll call them right here.  The first one was a screen.  Then we had that.  Then we had runs.  Then we had F-line where we could give it on the run, and when he missed a throw to 26 coming in the flat, remember we had him -- would have been wide open.  He made the perfect read, just missed the throw.  You can run or pull the screen and throw it.
The bubble route to Auden down the sideline, we got runs on inside.  And if they all bunk the box and give us those outside, just like they were doing, it's what they were doing.  All their slants and hitches.  They bunch the box, you're just throwing the bubble out there.  So that's a run.
To us, those aren't passes.  Those are runs.  You ran five yards on a run, would you ever pass it?  No.  And if you gain -- we average about 8 1/2, 9 yards a play on those routes.
And those little screen routes.  So those are run/pass options that, when they bunch the box and create the leverage outside, we just throw it out there.
So those are really runs.  In our mind, that's part of our running game.  That's receivers running the ball, and you're still blocking the run inside.  The defense has to play the run and what you're doing.
Then we had one, two -- got it down right here.
Three.  Then you had two-minute.  You had three or four in the first half.  We're about balanced.  We're 50-50.  In the first one, we missed one right off the bat in the second half.  We had a run on miss -- remember he overthrew it too fast to Noonie on the first pass.  Next play was a play action, and we hit the post.  Next was a run play action.  We hit Keith in the flat.  That's when I said if we push crack it and take two and they block him, walks in, that's the one we had done earlier.  That's one.  Then we ran it.  Ran it, ran it, dropped a spot.  Ran it.  Hit the deep ball.  Play action.  We had the one we threw to Noonie in the flat.  That's six of them right there.
I'm trying to think.  Trying to go down the line right here.
Then you had Cooter, then we had the Juice.
We had -- anyway, we had seven of them.  We had seven of them that we threw that were run/pass.  So really in your dropback, take seven off and add seven runs theoretically in what you're trying to call.  I don't know what it ended up.  It would have been about 27 to 30.  Would have been about 50-50.
You had a two-minute drive and a two minute at the end of the game.  Most calls, two-minute situations and third down situations, you probably ran it more than you actually threw it in the game.
And you didn't realize a lot of theirs were.  A lot of those slants and hitches and things they did were all runs that were called that are -- when guys bunch the box and you can't -- there's too many people in there to block.  That's what you end up doing.  That's the things we've done since we've been here.  I mean, it ain't no different.
Q. You mentioned the shorter passes for NC State, and you said last week they're going to get rid of the ball quickly.  It's with the pressure, were you confident with the pressure you guys were getting?
JIMBO FISHER: No, we need to affect the quarterback more.  At the same time, there weren't many third and longs.  We need to pressure him.  But some of those third and longs, like I said, they got out, they hit a quick screen.  If you look at their conversion on third and long, a quick screen to left on the first one, bubble screen to right and threw it a quick route, which we did too.  That's how we got a couple of ours in there in that regard.
So they didn't hold it long, but we've got to get pressure and affect them, and we didn't affect them enough.
Q. Can you give your impression on North Carolina.
JIMBO FISHER: Experienced quarterback, tight end.
If you go back and look, I don't know what they're ranked right now, but they're really high on defense.  They have been.  You go back and look at the film last year.  Even last year, if you remember the teams, Louisville looked like they scored 40 points, but if you remember, it was 12-6.  10-3, 10-7, I don't know what it was, something like that.  All the way into the fourth quarter, you know what I mean?
Clemson, the same way.  They broke late because they had to take chances on offense and finally turned the ball over and did some things.  Defensively, they're a heck of a football team.  Offense, they've got so much more experience.  Same guys that played for the last three years.  Now they're seeming to get better.  They're a really good team, and their scheme is very unique and different in what they do and force you to do certain things and have done a great job.
They're a really good defensive football team, 4-0, playing very confident.  They've got more experience on offense, and now they're scoring points.
Q. Saturday you had Jacques in for the first two series.  Any thoughts on changing the running back rotation?
JIMBO FISHER: No, that's what our rotation is.
Q. And 14-8 and the last 22 games, just how do you -- and second straight season with the slow start, how do you turn it around?
JIMBO FISHER: Keep coaching.  Keep coaching.
Do the things we do.  Attention to detail, fundamentals, coach them better, get them to play better.
Q. Jimbo, on defense, did you see any of the progression to some of the issues that affected you last season, like setting the edge?
JIMBO FISHER: No.  They set the edge.  Did a good job.  Got out of a gap at the end, but did a nice job in that regard.  Played hard, played physical.  We had some guys banged up.  They played physical in that game.  It was a physical game.  Just had to stay and keep plugging along.  They had some good players.
Q. And touch on the big picture, what Joe was asking, every season presents its own challenges, but do you sit back and look, okay, for the last three years now, it doesn't look promising for the ACC race and things like that.  Do you look at it that way, or no?
JIMBO FISHER: Those are your goals at the beginning of the year, is just go out and play.  We've got to play Wake Forest this week, who's got a heck of a team, and go.
Q. Jimbo, beginning when we started here, you said something to the effect of our kids care.  Did you kind of see something in the game that may have dictated that they might have not?
JIMBO FISHER: No.  I said our kids play hard and they care.  It matters to them.  You can see it.  It hurts them when they don't have success or can't do the things they want to do.
They care, they play hard, and we've got to help them play better in these situations.  You always want to know that kids play and it matters to them.  That's a big factor.  When things matter to you, they improve.
They do everything we ask, and we've got to continue to help them do better.
Q. How is Matthew Thomas doing?
JIMBO FISHER: He'll be day to day.
Q. And then I don't know if you got to see the game last night or watched it at all, but Chris Thompson --
JIMBO FISHER: I didn't.  I heard he had a good game.  I'm happy.  He's a great player.  He's a great guy.  I always think of Wake Forest when he -- two things.  He broke his back up there, and a year later he had 190 yards in the first half when we came back down here.  That was the game we had lost up there that year.
Remember, he broke his back in that game right in the first series.  Was a critical play in the game, which really hurt us in the game because at that time we had a bunch of young players in his position.  He came back the next year off the broken back and had 191 yards in the half.  They said that last night.  It's the first thing I thought of today when they said he had a good game.  I didn't get to see it.  So happy for him.
Q. I'm sure you have a lot of kids that have come through here --
JIMBO FISHER: He's as fine a human being that has ever come through here.  I don't mean that in disregard to anybody else, but, man, what a great human being he is.  I mean, what a great human being.
Q. Jimbo, I don't know if you saw, but Bradley Chubb came out after the game and apologized.  He said he respected you guys.  Did you know about that at all --
JIMBO FISHER: No, I didn't.  We win the game, don't let him do it.  That's our fault.  I mean, I have no -- it's up to him.
Q. I know you talk about blocking out the noise and distractions and everything, but with what happened in the NFL this weekend and everything, is this one of those times when you're glad at college football you stay in the locker room during the anthem and those things?
JIMBO FISHER: No, I don't get caught up in that.  If that was something we had to address -- like I said, we've addressed that before.  Each player has their own choice of things that they want to represent or stand for.  That's the individual's choice.  Whether you kneel or you don't kneel, that's your choice.
Just know that, when you do those things, like I said, you can affect other things.  It's not right or wrong.  That's the thing about freedom.  There's not a right answer to that.  That's the greatness of living in our country.  You have the freedom to express yourself how you want to express it.  That doesn't mean you're a good guy, bad guy, indifferent guy.  It just means what you believe in and what you stand for.  I think that's one of the great things about our country.
Q. Jimbo, on the interception that was waved off because of pass interference, they called Derwin, but Derwin wasn't near the play.  Did you ask for an interpretation on that or anything?
JIMBO FISHER: I'll wait for one.  I thought it was a good play.
Q. And then overall --
JIMBO FISHER: Big turning point in the game.  We had just scored, stopped them, had the ball at midfield.  There was a couple, three or four major ones that went that way.  But you know something, that's the way the game is called.  You've got to move on.  You've got to process it and go on.  You can't control that.  Who gets hurt, calls, whatever the circumstance, you've got to move on.
Q. That's what I was going to ask.  Even if they weren't all bad calls, it just seemed like a lot of important calls didn't go your way.
JIMBO FISHER: And it doesn't, but, you know, like you say, that's out of our control.  Control the things you can control.  All you can control is how you play the next play, try to go on.  And that's part of learning when you're a player and a coach.  You can't dwell on that.  You've got to process it, move on, and go.
That's the call that was made.  There's no way to change it.  There's nothing you can do about it.  Even if they come back and say they were the wrong calls.  That doesn't affect the outcomes.  That's the game we live in, and that's life.
Q. What did Jacob Pugh do wrong on that play?
JIMBO FISHER: I don't know.  I'm going to wait until we get the interpretations back.  I have no idea.
I didn't think that -- that's not my interpretation of the rule.  But I may be wrong.  I don't know.
Q. Does it feel like, though, that's definitely not in the spirit of the rule when you're talking about safety for --
JIMBO FISHER: I didn't see it that way.  Again, I don't have the answer to that.  In my opinion, yes, I agree with you, that that's not, in my interpretation of that.  But maybe I'm interpreting wrong.  I don't know.  That was explained to us, but we'll wait and get a clarification on --
Q. (No microphone)?
JIMBO FISHER: No.  We'll wait and get it back.  It takes time.  They watch them from all the games.  They've got a bunch of games they watch.
Q. Will you try to argue to get him eligible in the first half against Wake?
JIMBO FISHER: If it's not -- I'll have to wait and get the ruling back.  That happened one time with Nigel Bradham, too.  Remember?  We were able to get Nigel Bradham back for a half.  That was big, because that was an interception on that play.  You remember?  Would have ended the game, we could have taken a knee and then they scored and we had to catch an onside kick to keep the win.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT