FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 9, 2016
Jimbo Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JIMBO FISHER: I'll open it up to questions right off the bat, because whatever I say ain't going to be right, right (laughing).   
No, well, great to be here.  Seventh year, time has flown.  It really has.  We showed some videos last night.  When we first got here, when we first started, the vision we had for the program, where we wanted it to go and what position we wanted it to be in at this stage of our time here and the things that we've evolved to, and still as an organization and with our infrastructure, still have a long ways to go and things we have to get to to be attainable and stay at the top, because I think that's the key to everything.   
But it makes you reflect at how far we've come.  The 68 wins, the championships and the conference championships and the National Championships, the draft picks, I mean, I'm very proud of the guys who have played here -- not all the times here, but these last six years and the things they've evolved and what they brought this program to.  During that time, at the time, the second most wins in the country during that time.  Have been very successful.  Got great student-athletes, got great kids, great players.   
They're having success here.  They're having success off the field.  Having success in the classroom.  Having success in the NFL, and that's what you want and that's what we're happy and proud to be a big part of.   
But saying all that, it means nothing going forward.  We're where we want to be.  We're putting ourselves in a position to be successful and have a chance to be successful.  We have to keep doing the little things that make us successful.  But very excited about this team.  Very excited about this season coming up.   
I thought we went through a tremendous, tremendous spring.  Loved the summer.  As Vick and our guys said and even our players, one of the best summers we've had.  Coaches always say that every year, but this has been a good summer.  Now what we've got to do is translate that into the team in which it's evolving into and to be able to have the success and do the things we've got to do and keep the process in place so we can do all the little things that make the big things attainable.   
But, again, very happy.  I like the attitude where our guys are right now.  The structure which we have in place, like I say, with our team, our infrastructure of our team itself, with the unity council and the leadership and lot of guys are stepping up and taking on rolls and now I want to see it translate to the field.   
Still have a lot of work to do and lot of questions.  People say, Who is starting?  Well, there ain't no starters in place.  Everything's open.  We have to do a great job in this camp of evaluating and educating, because you've got to evaluate your players as you educate your players.  Because, you know, a combine doesn't win a football game, and we're in a combine world.  We worry about how high we jump, how far we can throw it or whatever.  Now we've got to play football.  We've got great athletes, now we have to have football players.  Then you have to educate within the situations of football:  Third downs, red zone, short yardages, coming off the goal line, two minutes before the half, two minute at the end of the game, all the playing on defense, 4 minutes to run the clock out on offense.  Trying to get the ball back on defense or trying to stall or make them milk the clock or not give up big plays, all the things that go on in the situations of football.   
That's one of the things that does have me excited because I hear the conversation with guys and the questions they're asking.  I like the questions they're asking.  They make a lot of sense.  You see a lot of guys that are thinking the game and understanding the game and that football is not just a size and speed game.  It's a mental game, a psychological game.  More importantly it's a team game.   
I like the dynamics of the things I'm hearing and seeing within our guys.  But we have to do a great job evaluating in camp, educating in camp and getting ready for a great opener and one heck of a schedule.   
We have as tough a schedule as there is in the country.  Play two major Power Five conference teams from the SEC opening it up, and in between we've got a tremendous conference schedule.  Play the top two teams rated on the other side of the division in Miami and North Carolina.  Our great rivals from within our own side of the division.  They're always extremely tough.  Very tough team in South Florida, which was a great Bowl team that won seven out of the last eight after they played us, I believe.  Then a 1AA team in Charleston Southern that went to the quarterfinals and had a great run and doing a great job.  We play them after a five-day layoff.  So five days right after you play a game, which is extremely tough.  We don't have a lot of preparation in how you've got to do things.   
So we have a lot of challenges ahead of us, but saying all of that, I'm looking forward to it.  That's what competitors do.  They like challenges.  They like things that are up against and make things tough.  So, so far I like the demeanor of this team.  Hopefully we'll see when we start the practice field and see what we're going to do.   
But we know this:  Everybody's going to be shooting at us and trying to measure it off of us.  We've got talent, but we've got to develop into a team now that plays with great consistency.  The last few years we've had some tremendous successes.  A National Championship a couple years ago.  The last couple we haven't been there, but been right on the verge.  A blocked kick and a catch here and there at Georgia Tech.  Was that Clemson converting two third and ones, fourth and one, you're there too.  That's how close you are there too.  Very excited about where this team can go, but got to go do it.   
That's what we've got to fight -- what we've got to find out, are we going to fight for those inches.  Just six or eight inches and doing it again last year.  Then finishing off the season the right way like we didn't do in the Bowl game.  But there's a lot of things we've got to do.   
Again, the same time, I'm looking forward to that challenge and I think this team is too, so we'll find out.   
 Q.  When you guys start the season, how do you change your evaluation process and maturation process?  
JIMBO FISHER: It doesn't.  I mean, who you play, I mean you can't speed evaluations up.  You can't speed a guy's development up.  You can't make things go any faster.  You have to give what they can do, what's there and make your evaluations off that.  If you can hit a button and say, okay, this team opened up so we can make it that much better, we would do that every year.  I mean, there's nothing you can do in that regard.  You have to let things and people develop as they develop.  But we know we've got a great challenge coming in, there's no doubt.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) 100% healthy?  
JIMBO FISHER: Yes, he will be.   
 Q.  You talked about the kind of questions.  You said it's kind of a sign of maturity learning lessons from last year.  
JIMBO FISHER: I think everybody.  I think when you walk into Florida State you understand what's at stake.  You understand expectations and understand pressure and what you've got to learn is pressure is a chance to be elite, a chance to separate yourself and you have to embrace that thing.  You don't worry about pressure and build habits what you do daily so you don't worry about pressures and results.   
I think it's like the 2013 team, I think one of the things that made it good, is it goes through hard times.  What makes people, what makes everybody who is successful, successful?  It's hard lessons in life that you don't want to do again.  I think it's what you do about them and the situations you put in and how you handle them.   
Now at the same time, everybody wants to dwell on the negative.  What about all the positives?  The end of the day there were still 13 wins the year before, there were still 10 wins again last year.  You take from the positive and learn from that.  You only dwell on the negative and you never grow.   
Because you know what you do?  That's what you work on and you forget about the things you did well.  There are a heck of a lot of things we've done well around here too.  So we'll get better at the things we've done poorly and keep repeating the things we've done well.   
 Q.  Usually you're looking forward, why did you feel it was important to show that video (Indiscernible)?  
JIMBO FISHER: I think history is the greatest teacher.  I mean it goes all the way back to '87 and the '80s.  I mean, history is a great teacher.  How you can rise and how you come out of nowhere to make the run in '87 forever.  Then had tough times during the 2000s and fought your way back and put it up to a championship.  We haven't quite been to a championship.  But fighting and staying in that mode and staying relevant and winning championships.   
I think history is a tremendous teacher.  I think it can teach you valuable lessons.  It really does.  It's funny, we always say history always repeats itself in a lot of ways and all this ball.  Just, for instance, you talk about all this ball and all these guys are in this run/pass option and quarterback runs.  Guess what, that was on single-wing football in 1950.  If you really go back and look at it, when the quarterbacks ran and did all those things.  It all comes in a cycle.   
But I think it's very important to understand the seats that you're sitting in, who sat in them before you, and what you're going to leave to the next group that sits in those seats.  And as the incoming classes, your responsibility is to represent yourself as people, as students and as players and what that goes through.  We've had as much history as anybody, especially since that time.  I thought it was very important for them to understand that and also learn from it.   
 Q.  You mentioned (Indiscernible) the block.  Are you anxious to see that a battle at quarterback or will there be a battle?  
JIMBO FISHER: Oh, there's going to be a battle everywhere.  Everybody will be put in situations, offensive line, defensive line, secondary jobs, linebackers, receivers.  I'm anxious to see that.  Tight ends, the backs.  I mean, Dalvin's doing what he does, but the other guys behind him, how much they've got to play and what they've got to do.   
And these young guys, every year, there's a group of them that jump up and really make a significant difference and others make a difference, and we're going to need every one of them.  So I'm kind of anxious all the way across.  There's going to be battles everywhere, there's no doubt.  Competition from within is what makes great teams.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
JIMBO FISHER: Really good.  I mean, they were doing him on grass, and the change of direction and stuff, and he was on the ultra G and putting the weight and changing direction.  According to him right now, he's ready to go, and I think he is.  But we're going to make sure he heals the right way and we'll do some other testing to make sure we ease him back in.  But he's healed extremely well.  The boot's off.  He'll be running on grass today and change direction and do some of that.  So he'll get back in pretty quick.  At the longest, I would imagine, hold him out five, six, seven days, a week at the most.  We've got plenty of time.  Just to make sure it feels good.  How it will run him a little bit.  But he hasn't had any.  It's crazy how their bodies heal.   
 Q.  Did you go out there and tell him (Indiscernible)?  
JIMBO FISHER: Yes, he will.  He's good to go.  He did all the workouts this summer and everything.   
 Q.  With Derwin a little banged up, how did Marquez White pick it up a little bit, and do you hope that he improves?  
JIMBO FISHER: Yeah, they play two different positions, but Marquez has always been a leader in our secondary.  The good thing getting Trey Marshall back in that mix.  People forget, Trey Marshall is a heck of a football player.  He can do a lot.  But Marquez is always a leader.  Marquez is Mr. Steady-Eddy out there on the field and can do a lot of things.  One heck of a player, expecting a good year.  Those other safeties are going to give him some opportunities.  Some of those young guys early in camp the first couple days.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) started at quarterback.  Someone without starting experience, but the past year or so (Indiscernible).  Why do you think that is and how will that impact this team?  
JIMBO FISHER: Because there's a lot of experience around it.  I think if you go back and research those young guys that have had a lot of success as young quarterbacks -- see, juniors and seniors, even though they haven't had time, I don't put them in the same boat you do as freshmen.  I don't care what you say.  That's totally different.  But at the same time, I bet if you research a lot of those guys have a lot of experience around them where there's not a lot of mistakes made.  Because a quarterback's main thing, he can learn what to do in the base decisions.  When quarterbacks and young guys get in trouble is when the guys around them don't execute.   
When you've got the ball in your hand, you're like the eraser on a pencil.  Whatever happens, the fan base, the media, coaches, what do we all say?  Fix it.  You've got to make it right.  Throw it away.  Why don't you throw it away?  Get rid of it quicker.  Why don't you scramble and run?  Well, stand back there and do that when you haven't had a lot of experience.   
And I think if you'll research that -- the thing I'm excited about the guys, there's a lot of experience around the guys saying that.  And hopefully there won't be a lot of mistakes and they'll do the things they do and settle in and play with consistency.  Then when you gain that confidence as you go, you're able to fix other people's problems, you know what I'm saying?  You're able to do that.   
I think that's very critical anytime you have a new starting quarterback.  The amount of experience around him to make that job and that transition much easier.  Because the hardest thing for a quarterback is to manage, not what you do, it's when somebody else does something wrong.  But quarterbacks get all the glory and all the blame, so that's part of it.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) a couple years ago have you seen any similarities to this team now?  
JIMBO FISHER: I've seen them in that '13 team and some of the other teams.  I'm going to tell you what.  We're missing some things here a little bit in that I need to go back.  Teams are very important, but programs have to learn.  We go back to the dynasty years.  Didn't they have to learn to win a championship?  Took them still till '93 from '87.  Took them another six after that.  And how to what?  How to repeat it and keep it because they were up there in it.   
But all teams have -- because what happens is your program has different issues in it.  Just like the '14 team.  I think there's a lot of clutter after the '13 season just because of who we were.  And those kids had to learn to deal with it.  Not that they didn't play hard on the field, and I think that's why you saw there were so many competitors, but their time got divided because of becoming celebrities of becoming high-profile, becoming every time you move someone watched you.  I'm not talking about bad, but that goes with winning National Championships, and there is a learning curve to adapt to that.   
In '15, not having a lot of experience and guys come in, well, they win all the time and not have an entitlement because people say, man, it's getting tough.  Well, somebody will take care of it, instead of let me take care of it.  You know what I'm saying?  I think not only has this team evolved, but I think our program has to go through those changes to understand all the different cycles in which you go through as a program.  And if you watch all the great programs, they all go through it.   
Even now Alabama's won two or three in a row, but if you remember, they lost three right after they won one.  And I thought that was their best team back in the day.  I remember I think it was 2010, they lost three games and he said that team may have been the best team he had.  But after coming off a championship and all the clutter, it's not just a team.  It's the culture of the whole program absorbing the things that happened.   
But saying all that, I think we're getting through some of those things and understanding how to sort through being who we are, what we are, expectations.  I think it's another growing part of our program, and I'm anxious to see where we go with this.  I really am.  I like what I've seen so far.   
 Q.  What do you think of the extra cameras and boom mics around?  
JIMBO FISHER: Tell me when we've done something in the last four years when there ain't been boom mics and cameras and something else.  That stuff's been everywhere.  We have that stuff all the time.  It's now natural.   
I said to the guys, dang, our kids don't even think about it.  I asked the coaches, No, it hasn't bothered us.  We're evolved and I think ready for that stage of.  I'm proud of the program in which we've built.  I want people to see it isn't just about having great players and rolling them on the field and what these guys actually go through.  The amount of work they go through, the dedication, the commitment, the attention to detail and what kind of great young men they are and great students they are on top of players.  I think it was time for people to see that.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
JIMBO FISHER: I tell them don't make mistakes (laughing).  You've got to play and trust your own eyes and react.  Here's the key:  Why are you doing something?  Why did you do it?  If you can't tell me why you did it, whether it was right or wrong, you'll never learn and progress.   
I mean, good players don't repeat mistakes.  When you have that situation again and as you watch them evaluate, if they keep repeating the same mistake, one, we're not teaching it right, two, he's not getting it, and we need to quit doing it, which is part of it too.   
But the big thing is when you're evaluating young players at any level, I don't care what position it is, they can't answer why, then we're all in trouble and we've got to reteach and they've got to relearn.  So, even when they make a mistake, if they understand why they made it, then they can fix it if they make a good play.  Even guys make plays and they can't tell you why they did them.   
We see a touchdown, everybody's happy, but if it's the right play for the wrong reason, guys, that's not good ball.  You can't win like that.  That only gets you along for so long.  It ends up blowing up on you.  It's false hope, you know what I'm saying?  And everything we do, every position we evaluate and ask them, they do something, why did you do it?  They have to tell me why and they've got to understand.  Because until they understand, they can never repeat it and they can never fix it.  That's going to be the key.   
 Q.  During the summer (Indiscernible) Deondre and Sean working and joking around.  Do you like camaraderie between quarterbacks in general?  
JIMBO FISHER: Yeah, I mean, I think it's good.  Again, I guess they help each other on the team because the team needs it.  But they don't have to sing Kumbaya and hold hands walking on the field either.  I mean that's their business.  You know what I mean?   
But when you're on that field, you benefit each other, benefit the team you know what I'm saying?  But they appreciate good competition.  They know we're going to pick the best guy, and I think they enjoy each other, like each other.   
 Q.  How has Deondre (Indiscernible)?  
JIMBO FISHER: That's why I was encouraged through the spring.  That's one of the things that encouraged me in the spring.  Even with the mistakes, what he did, why he did it, how he did it wrong, you know what I'm saying, it's really grown.  That's why I feel like he's legitimately in the competition to be the guy, because he understands the whys and the why-nots of the game.   
 Q.  Going off that (Indiscernible) Sean's been part of the quarterback competition with Deondre.  Where's it looking for him (Indiscernible)?  
JIMBO FISHER: I mean, you know, I always say how he plays.  Whether he's in the competition or not, I just want to see his consistency, leadership, his decision making.  Because at the end of the day, what's the quarterback get down to?  Decision making and accuracy.  You can put all that other junk up you want.  Does he make good decisions, whether it's a run check, a read on a pass?  He can have the greatest arm in creation, does he hit what the heck he throws at?  I forgot what he can hit.  Because at the end of the day, that's what it gets down to.   
We can talk about leadership and toughness and all that.  But if he's making good decisions and hitting what he's throwing at and the ball's going down the field, we're doing some good things.  You know what I'm saying?   
He's got to have leadership, toughness, competitiveness.  Also his ability, you watch when he makes a mistake.  Does one play become two bad plays, three bad plays or does it move on?  It's one of the things I liked in the spring game.  Had a great drive.  Thought it was a great decision, just threw it a hair short, come back the next drive and threw it down the field.  Made a mistake at two minutes before the half and came out in the second half played very well.  You're going to go through that.  That's part of it.  But how you get through it and how those things happen.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
JIMBO FISHER: Good.  He's in good shape.  Seems like he's running good, moving good.  Anxious to watch him out there in his route running where he's getting to and what's going on.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) quarterback.  What have you seen or heard from those two about what to expect?  
JIMBO FISHER: They'll compete and go at it.  They're both very competitive and talented.  I expect them to go out there and battle, and hopefully they'll one-up each other every day.  That means we're getting better.  We'll be forced to play both of them.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) what did you see when you watched Notre Dame last year?  
JIMBO FISHER: I didn't watch very much of it.  I was too busy on my own, you know what I mean?  I really didn't.  I mean, I saw a little bit of pieces and been talking to them.  I knew what it was about.  I've seen the shows.  It was all a little bit of those clips.  I talked to Brian.  He was very receptive.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
JIMBO FISHER: Nothing, he thought they did a great job.  Their guys got used to it.  It wasn't a big distraction to them.  And they did very well with it.  I just thought it was the right time, right place for us to do it.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
JIMBO FISHER: Maybe, however way.  There's a lot of stuff we get mic'd for, cameras, all the time.  It's just part of it.  If you ain't got nothing to hide, what makes the difference?  Ain't trying to hide nothing.  We're an open book.  Come see us.   
 Q.  Did it help that you guys last year (Indiscernible)?  
JIMBO FISHER: Just consistency, and not worrying about last year.  Learn from last year, last year ain't going to help you.  Got to do it again.  That's the thing about ball.  Every time you roll that ball on the field it's 0-0.  Once you're competitive, when you learn how you were successful last year and some of the things you made mistakes on and continue to grow.  You always want to grow.  You always want to be better on third down.  You want to be great in the red zone.  You don't want to give up runs.  You don't want to give up big plays.  That's still the constant.  You can look at turnovers and big plays dictate games as much as anything.   
Got to be able to stop the run, get off the field on third down, and be a great red zone goal line team.  At the end of the day, that's what it gets down to.  That's our focus.  There will be a lot of time on short yardage.  Be a lot of time on the red zone and a lot of time on third down, and we've always done that trying to create big plays.  That's football today.  Being physical, running that dad gum football.   
 Q.  Talk about (Indiscernible) are you looking at Ricky?  
JIMBO FISHER: No, Ricky's a lot taller.  But, I mean, in the spring a little bit we got in the spring.  It was really the way he settled down from the first of spring to the end of the spring and the way he kicked.  Think it was very good for him to come in, and I'm anxious to see how this summer, all the time, did he get the time a little quicker.  The thing he does is he gets the ball up quickly, which is one of Roberto's strengths on field goals and things like that.  Seemed to be very accurate for the most part in spring.  And at the same time, watching Logan compete with him, it's going to be fun.   
 Q.  About a year ago (Indiscernible) I'm just wondering, he's always been a great player with great talent.  I'm wondering how much growth you've seen from him personally, emotionally maybe in the past year?  
JIMBO FISHER: A lot.  Dalvin's a very quiet guy.  Dalvin's usually very steady, very honest.  I don't see a lot of change in him as far as his demeanor to work, his demeanor to coaches.  His honesty with us, talking with us, communicating with us.  What I've seen a lot of growth in, he's more out going with his teammates.  I think he's having a greater effect on them in everything he does.  Whether it's classroom stuff, off the field stuff, work ethic and practice, off-season, I think he's more vocal and in a much more comfortable role expressing himself.  He was always a great leader by example, but I think he's being more outgoing in how he talks and communicates with them and understanding that's a huge role for him the way they look up to him.  Him handling that, I think is very good.   
For coaches and from us, we've always had tremendous confidence in him and trust in him.  His relationship with us, he's always been very open with us.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
JIMBO FISHER: Yeah, that's a shame.  He was a heck of a player.   
 Q.  Just talk about how difficult that's been?  
JIMBO FISHER: I didn't know he did that but Chad was a great young man.  Anytime you have guys that has talents and wants to play and you've dreamed your whole life of doing things, all of a sudden, there is something there that's out of control.  Your dream of what you've done your whole life is taken away.  There was a lot of it.   
We spent a lot of time individually talking and trying to -- well, first encourage him in you don't know what's going to happen.  Making sure you fight and give every opportunity to do it.  But making sure you get your education and understand being a good guy.  Making him still a part of Florida State.  He was still a part of our team.  He was around, in meetings, did all the things he had to do.  I mean, I always look at it why did you do that?  If that was one of my two kids, what would you do?   
At the end of the day, that's how I make 99.9% of my decisions.  If that was one of my two sons, what would I do and what would I want done by his coach?  It's not -- I guess it's called common sense or common courtesy, I guess, and it was the way I was raised to try to do that and try to communicate with him as much.  And it's tough.  I mean, sometimes asking whether some of our sports psychologists or people to talk to them and how to deal with those things.   
I've dealt with many of those.  Maybe what I said clicks, maybe it doesn't.  Somebody else needs to communicate with him and spend time with him.  Because at the end of the day, they didn't get hurt on purpose.   
That's one of the things some people say.  "He's hurt."  Do you think players got hurt on purpose?  Do you think they don't want to play?  They say, well, he's not very dependable.  Well, sometimes you break your leg or your shoulder pops out, I mean, that's life, man.  That don't make him a bad guy.  I mean, he's trying to do everything he can do.  That frustrates me when I hear people talk about guys.  He's always injury prone.  Well, maybe he's giving everything he's got.  It's not his fault.   
At the end of the day it's about being a good person.  As a coach, one of your roles is making sure those guys are successful.  He's gotten his degree.  He's graduated.  So very happy for him.  I'm sad we don't have him, one for his dreams and two for ours.  He was a heck of a football player.  God, he was talented.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
JIMBO FISHER: Well, we've got to discuss it.  If he wants to be involved in that or whatever, we'd love to have him.  We'd love to have him.   
 Q.  How far has Rick Leonard come?  
JIMBO FISHER: Well, we talked yesterday and he told me he weighed either 310 or 314.  He's 282, so about 30-32 pounds.  At least he's happy when he sees me and he gets to eat what he wants.   
But a lot.  I mean, really has knowledge.  Boy, I mean, as a matter of fact, where did I see him at?  Walked through the offices or I came down here to do something.  Oh, oh, I was in the weight room lifting and he was doing his work and I was doing my work.  And he got up close to me, and I remember him, he was leaning and running.  He's gotten big, he's gotten thick.  He's athletic, he's long, physical, smart.  Even though we haven't been able to teach him, like I say, when those gray areas come up, 9 out of 10 times he falls in doing the right thing.  There is a lot on to that when guys make those moves.  I think he has a really good chance to be a good player for us.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
JIMBO FISHER: Right tackle probably, right first.  When you put a new guy over there in position, you start moving him around and you say right tackle, right guard.  Well, still there are technique things and calls.  We have to make sure we get one player before we get two.   
 Q.  Last year you waited four, five days before putting out the starting QB.  (Indiscernible).  
JIMBO FISHER: Like I said before, there ain't no time for it.  I don't know.  They'll dictate that.  Whenever I see one that's ready or one taking the lead or whatever, we'll see.  You can't speed that process up, and you can't slow it down.  The process is what it is.  I wish it was a magical ball I could sit and say at any position.  You can't.  When you're going to name this guy, you don't know.  I mean, you really don't.  You can't make those processes go any faster.  You have to let their development happen.   
 Q.  You mentioned a couple times though the questions that were asked of players to you in the off-season.  You like that maturity and experience.  Does that allow you to typically come into practice and how quickly you can coach them hard?  
JIMBO FISHER: Yeah, and installations, what you can do and can't do.  It does give you, as I said, a set of rules or something that you can start to apply by and see.  But there's no doubt it does.  How ready they are and how advanced in how you coach them.  You know what I'm saying?  Does it have to be the base fundamental?  Which we all do.  But you can get to those other things a lot more quickly, there is no doubt.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
JIMBO FISHER: No, it won't.  Because at the end of the day you've still got to go back to those fundamentals.  You've still got to go back to those fundamentals.  I gave you the greatest example of that, Tom Brady.  Brady says right now he's better fundamentally than he ever was when he came into the league, and he's better now than he was five years ago, and he's 40 years old.  Because he goes back and does the same things over and over and over, and then refines them again, over and over and over.  And his body, what he eats.  That guy may be in better shape now than when he came into the league.   
He's 40 years old, and he may play to his mid-40s like he said or whatever.  I use that as an example.  Football at the end of the day is still blocking and tackling, but you know what?  It's still fundamentals.  How you lineup, your split, your alignment, where your hand is, where your eyes are, where your head is.  It's still how you tackle, how the alignment -- alignment, assignment technique.  If you start getting away from fundamentals, you'll never be successful.  You'll never be successful.   
You've got to establish those fundamentals early and make them over and over.  Well, like I say, you don't practice until they do it right.  You practice until they do it wrong and that's where fundamentals got to come in.   
 Q.  You mentioned last season the Bowl game (Indiscernible)?  
JIMBO FISHER: Well, you take chances.  I mean, we took chances all year.  We got hit.  Underthrew some balls.  Sean was hurting.  Couldn't get the ball out at times.  There are a lot of factors that went into that.  You tell they miss in the safe zones and you've got to take chances and get the ball down there.   
Actually, sometimes the farther you throw it down the field, the least amount of chances you take.  Because it's usually a one-on-one situation most of the time sometimes the farther you throw it.   
 Q.  (Asking about the ban of social media).  
JIMBO FISHER: It's been the fourth year for us.  We go back '12 or '13 we started it.  It eliminates clutter.  One less thing.  You ain't got enough time.  There's not enough time in the day to be a student, to do things right off the field and to play college football.  There ain't enough time in the day to go do all that stuff.  And if you spend an hour on social media, if you spent that studying your plays and working your playbook or doing some of that stuff, how much better would you be?  And what it's about is making a commitment to something.  Saying I want to be the best.   
Because, let me tell you something, these kids have a program.  You know what kids can't do today, people can't do, they can't commit to anything.  They're truly not committed.  They'll do it, but are you truly committed to it?  And learning a kid commitment is going to get him through life and one of the greatest things he'll learn, and that's a commitment.  That's something they want to do as a team.  We've always done as a team.   
It eliminates the clutter.  You ain't got time to go answer things for an hour a day.  That's what I want people to realize.  They think, there ain't enough time, folks, to really be a good student, doing the amount of studying you do, do the ball, do the things you do, get the amount of rest you need, interact with your friends and your family and to go do -- I mean, there isn't enough time in the day.   
If you want to be a great player and a great athlete in college, you can't do the things everybody else does.  It doesn't work that way.  There ain't enough time in the day.  And that's -- what do you get out of that anyway?  Distraction and clutter, and 90% of it is opinion and argument.  And 90% of it is just to get a rise or somebody get a hit on something.  I ain't understood it.  I ain't understood it.  Bunch of people are laughing about it going to the bank.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT