NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP
March 22, 2019
Anthony Cassar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Congratulations, Anthony.  Talk about that win in front of the fans, the place went wild.
ANTHONY CASSAR: Got a lot of friends out here from Jersey and Long Island, rough crowd out there, a lot of support, and I felt it.
Q. Anthony, you've had a long, interesting career at Penn State.  You're getting your opportunity right now, right?  You've been Junior World's.  What are you thinking now?  Not everyone goes through this journey, changing weight classes, doing all kinds of things and now you get to have a chance and show the world what you can do.
ANTHONY CASSAR: Yeah, it's crazy, five years of long, hard days and when I first got to State College I knew I was a champ and I wanted my goals of national championship, Olympic champion, but my life didn't reflect that and after I got hurt I decided to change my lifestyle and commit my life to my craft and ever since I did that it's been very tough.  But I stuck with it.  I continued everyday.  Now here I am, and I knew this day would come and got one more tomorrow.  So finish strong.
Q. Derek was talking about his career, which had some rough beginnings.  What is unique about you guys?  Have you studied him and the other wrestlers to have this moment like you have now?
ANTHONY CASSAR: I don't know anything about him.  I study champions in other fields, the best painter or the best boxer.  I study champions and I see the qualities I have in them and I like to take notes and imitate their qualities and characteristics I don't have yet.  So I'm a big studier of who I want to be in my field.
Q. Do you study Cael Sanderson?
ANTHONY CASSAR: Yeah.
Q. And be more specific about what you learned about what you saw he did?
ANTHONY CASSAR: That's one of the reasons I wanted to be to Penn State was to surround myself with champions.  I don't have to look for it.  I just have to follow what they're doing and I follow what they do to a tee and put my little extra spin on it and that's why I feel I'm making those gains.
Q. Is this how you envisioned your first NCAA Tournament to go?
ANTHONY CASSAR: Yeah, I always envisioned me with my hands up, kneeling on the ground, pointing up to God as a national champion.  We'll see if I can finish it tomorrow.
Q. Anthony, in high school you made the state final and won it.  Think you can do that here?
ANTHONY CASSAR: Takes me longer than most to get going.  I'm a little behind the curve, but I really started wrestling in high school.  I have been rolling around the mat since a little kid, but I didn't know what to do until high school until I started training hard and I'm a little behind the curve.  But in the history books it says national state champ, Olympic champ, doesn't matter.
Q. Who are the boxing and MMA champions you have studied?
ANTHONY CASSAR: Mayweather, obviously 15-0, he knows winning more than anyone.  Georges St-Pierre, those kind of champions, good on and off the mat.  Those are the big two.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Anthony.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT