BLUE BAY LPGA
October 21, 2016
Jiayi Zhou
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Could you talk a bit about this is your rookie year, and I'm curious to hear what you found challenging over your first year and sort of what you also found memorable at the same time?
ZHOU JIAYI: Yeah, I have many challenge this year and I already played seven tournaments.  I got in seven tournaments and I make the cut like three.  Yeah, I think it's a good start and I will try the final stage in November, end of November.  I will try next year.
Q. Is there a support system amongst the rookies for the 2016 class?  Are there other rookies that you've gone to that have helped you?
ZHOU JIAYI: Simin Feng, we are good friends, and she helped me a lot.  She talked to me like last year and doing like you, and you just don't worry and just keep going.
Q. What about some of the other Chinese players on the LPGA Tour, like Xi Yu Lin and Shanshan, have they provided some advice, as well?
ZHOU JIAYI: Yeah, sure, and Jing Yan.  Yeah, they all helped me a lot.
Q. What advice did you find particularly helpful?
ZHOU JIAYI: Just warn me don't worry too much, because I really too much this year.  I say, oh, I get a new step on the top of the golf and I want to try so hard and they said, don't try too hard, just keep your style and keep your tempo, just like that.
Q. How was it today?  All three of you were rookies, how was the dynamic amongst the group on the course?
ZHOU JIAYI: We had many fun on the course.  They played really well, yeah.
Q. And you're from Dalian.  What kind of player do you want to be known as and what do you wish people knew about your hometown?
ZHOU JIAYI: My hometown is really near to Korea and Japan and we have many seafood there and the area is not bad, like Beijing, you know.  And the people is really friendly there.
Q. How are the golf courses there sort of similar or different to the golf courses here?
ZHOU JIAYI: Some course near the sea, so it's really windy and there's some course on the mountain, so many hills, so many challenge there.
Q. So you might play well then on windy days in windy tournaments?
ZHOU JIAYI: Yeah, actually I practice in Tianjin, there it's really windy, have many links course there, and I practice a lot the windy shot.  My ball is really lower.  I think it's a good thing.
Q. How does that help with you this course, because this course is also links-style and I hear the greens are very hilly and undulating.  Today not so windy yesterday there was some wind.  Has it helped you?
ZHOU JIAYI: Actually my driver is really good here because it's not too much -- if windy golf is too strong, my ball is just straight, and on the green, I think sometimes the distance I make wrong distance.  Everything is good.
Q. So what's your goal then on the LPGA Tour?
ZHOU JIAYI: The goal, step by step.  Actually I want to get Top-10 next year, but I will try first on the Q-School first.  Step by step, don't worry.  Don't hurry.
Q. How do you see golf growing in China, the golf landscape?  I know Shanshan's Bronze Medal has brought an increase in awareness but how do you see the golf landscape growing more popular in China?
ZHOU JIAYI: I believe that golf will be more popular next year or the future, and more children will play golf and try to get many tournaments in China.  I see many big future in China.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT