UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
January 26, 2015
Bo Ryan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


  THE MODERATOR:   The men's basketball team plays Iowa on Saturday.   Head coach Bo Ryan is here.   He will take questions. 

Q.   This is your second longest stretch between games all season.   Does it come at a good time?   This break? 
BO RYAN:   It works like this, Jim.   We can't change it.   You make the best of it.   Hopefully you get some of the nicks healed up, I can't believe how many injuries there have been in the league this year, just seems like more of the key players for teams have either been knocked out for the season or knocked out for weeks. 
So it's close to that mid‑part of the Big Ten.   We know how physical of a conference it is, so you just hope you can survive. 

Q.   Bo, when Trea went down a lot of the focus is on Bronson, he would fill in for you but what has Josh done?   He takes a little bit of the point now as well, what has he done to help moves things along? 
BO RYAN:   Just stayed steady, true to himself and his game, the way he plays.   He hasn't tried to overdo anything.   He keeps an even keel. 
He still plays very good defense, and it shows. 

Q.   You talked after the Michigan game about how much frank means to this team.   What to you is more impressive the leap he made from his sophomore year to his junior year or the leap he made to from his junior to senior year given that he's the focal point of other teams' scouting reports? 
BO RYAN:   Yeah, he's been marked with the scouting tools that we have with Synergy and everything else, they know each player pretty well so to be able to improve on his numbers from last year obviously he's no longer a surprise so he's been very impressive this year and all you gotta do is look at a game where he might not have been on the court, if you can think of any, you know how valuable he is. 

Q.   You alluded to the injuries.   Sam cut his hand on Saturday against Michigan, is he going to be ready to go in practice?   Any lingering affects that you know of? 
BO RYAN:   I will know when we go to practice.   I don't know.   Haven't gotten my text or my email on injuries.   Coach doesn't know anymore usually until a few hours before practice or an hour before or right before practice, because Henry keeps trying to work his magic!   But when they said they used "glue" I was, like, where did they get that from?   We're not allowed to talk about injuries but somebody said that the announcer said that they glued his hand!   Is that like under inflated balls, they're easier to catch if you have stick‑um or glue‑‑ remember the days of the stick um, it helped you to grip the basketball and you could dunk easier?   Maybe we will have to find some of that glue!   I just never heard of a wound being blued.   I don't get around much. 

Q.   I know part of your every day practice, fundamentals are a big part of that.   With this long between games early in the week do you focus on stuff that you want to see this team do better at?   Do you use the next two or three days for development more than getting ready for Iowa? 
BO RYAN:   Well, we'll do a little bit of both.   We'll do some things that‑‑ with shooting and defensive movement, you don't have as much contact now, and people say contact?   Yeah, if you play a regular game, you think about all the contact that's made with another person in basketball without any pad at all, there is a lot of contact.   So cut back on that a little bit.   But it doesn't mean you walk through anything.   Everything we do is at game speed. 

Q.   Do you feel like you have a good read on the league at this point?   Seems like a lot of different teams have been bopping into the second and third place role, is the field wide open at the top at this point? 
BO RYAN:   Sure, it's the Big Ten, you see what it's like gettin' on the road.   We were the only road team to win over the weekend, if I'm correct.   Am I, Patrick? 
THE MODERATOR:   Yep! 
BO RYAN:   That's one you didn't think of, your crack crew?   Name another visiting team that won in the Big Ten this weekend!   Can anyone?   It's not like a test.   I don't think so. 

Q.   How much easier does it make it to go through this scout team preparations when you're playing a team twice in 11 days? 
BO RYAN:   How much what? 

Q.   Is it easier to go through the scout team preparations and prepare for Iowa when you're playing them twice in 11 days? 
BO RYAN:   I don't think I would use the term "easier" but they're more familiar and they have to execute and that means our scout team is better at running what Iowa runs because they only had one team in between there so when we go back over with the scout team what Iowa does, Ethan and Jordan and those other guys are licking their chops.   Heck, we know this, we can be better at Iowa's stuff this time.   But you still have to worry about yourself more so than the opponent.   Scouting is important but what's the most important is what your team is doing to get ready. 
THE MODERATOR:   Anything else for Coach?   Thank you, Coach.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT