UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
January 19, 2015
Bo Ryan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 Q.   When did you first hear that Bronson could be a player, and what did you think when you finally saw him?   Was he in middle school when you first heard about him, or high school?  
COACH BO RYAN:   Yeah, we always get a heads‑up on young guys that are tearing up the CYO or the YMCA leagues, the four Lakes, the whatever, I mean around the state, different areas.   
So Lacrosse is a big enough area that if you're a pretty good player, you're playing against a lot of other teams in these youth tournaments.   We used to run a bunch of them down at Platteville when I was coaching down there.   
And it was really neat because we got to see all these sixth‑ seventh‑, eighth‑graders, we started recruiting early.   Division III you don't have to worry about the rules as far as contacting or saying anything to them because you don't have any scholarships.   So, but, yeah, we had heard about Bronson and just kept our eye on them.   Can't really do too much until they get to be juniors or finish their sophomore year.   
   
 Q.   What's the next step in his development, where do you want to see him go now that he's got this opportunity?  
COACH BO RYAN:   Well, just continue to lead the team, have people believe in him.   All the point guards we've ever had that's been one of the most important qualities of the position.   I was always told that point guard, a lot of what the team does is going to depend on how you handle yourself on the court, how you bring the guys together.   So all the things that I was instructed to do, ever since I've been coaching, done the same with the point guards that I've had and get them to be ‑‑ they don't have to score a lot.   They don't have to be screamers.   They don't have to be in your face‑type of guys, but I've had some that have been like that.   Toughness of character, guys that don't get too high, too low.   Guys that can form those little huddles, the mini huddles we have when the ball goes out of bounds or there's a free throw coming up.   Those are the things you want in a point guard.  
   
 Q.   There were stretches in practice yesterday where you put six guys on the court from the scout team to simulate the press that Iowa will run?  
COACH BO RYAN:   I started doing that in 1972.  
   
 Q.   How many teams do you do that for in the Big Ten tho and how does Iowa's pressure compare?  
COACH BO RYAN:   We didn't have long‑‑ sometimes it's just based on, with Ethan Happ being injured, it was hard to‑‑ the length of some teams, of the Big Ten teams, your scout team is never like the first team, the first eight guys of the other school you're playing.   So sometimes you just do it to make guys have to be more perceptive.   But we've done that before.  
   
 Q.   What do you see on tape from Iowa offensively that makes them a threat?  
COACH BO RYAN:   Well, they have depth.   They push it.   They try to get open looks in transition.   So you've got to get back.   But I think they've done a better job this year of forcing teams to play better half‑court defense.   They're playing better half‑court defense, I think, than they did a year ago.   So that's what makes them better.   I think they're better than last year.   You talk about names that are back.   
Probably with Trae not being available, I think if you take the minutes that they had back, people thought we had a lot back coming into the year.   I think Iowa's got quite a bit, too, if you look at returning minutes.   
To give you an idea, after we did the scouting report, I think it was Josh Gasser or somebody said, what about McCabe?   It seemed like McCabe is still on Iowa's team?   So Josh got a good one in, he's a straight‑faced guy.   I think it was him.   I didn't verify it, but somebody said to Coach Close what about McCabe?   It was like McCabe's graduated.   Oh, really?   
Sometimes they've said that about some of our players, too.   He's still there?   
   
 Q.   One guy you recruited with Jarrod Uthoff, how has he grown at his time at Iowa that you've seen on the court?  
COACH BO RYAN:   Has he grown two inches like Sam?   Are you talking about?   
   
 Q.   Game‑wise.   
COACH BO RYAN:   He's got more minutes.   He's got more of a role.   Like I told somebody today, it's really neat in our league to have coaches who are teachers who develop‑‑ you look at all the guys across the league and you say, wow, that guy's better.   That guy's better.   That guy's better.  
And I think it's just the way it is in our league.   The more experience these guys get the more game time, the better they're getting.   We've got guys like that.   So they're always‑‑ it's always fun to watch people get better.  
   
 Q.   Showalter has gone from being the last man out to the last guy in.   What are your expectations of him in this role and do you think the fact that he saw time sort of in this situation a couple of years ago is beneficial for him?  
COACH BO RYAN:   I don't know what you mean by last guy out.  
   
 Q.   In the playing rotation.   He was basically the ninth guy in the eight‑man rotation, now he's moved up to a spot to the point that he's getting about eight, nine minutes a game.   I'm curious what do you expect out of him?  
COACH BO RYAN:   Just what he's been giving us.   Just work hard, take care of the ball.   Play defense, hit the glass, take charges, energy guy.   And don't get cheated.   I don't think Zak gets cheated very much.   You've heard me use that expression.   It just means guys that are trying to do something on every possession, always active but not trying to do so much where they get out of position.   
But Zak has brought us a lot of energy.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT