UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 18, 2013
Bo Ryan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


  THE MODERATOR:   The men's basketball team plays three home games this week, hosting North Dakota tomorrow at 7:00 p.m., Bowling Green on Thursday at 7:00 p.m., and then Oral Roberts on Saturday at 7:30 p.m. tomorrow.   Tomorrow and Saturday's games will be televised by BTN, while Thursday's game is on ESPN3.   
Head coach Bo Ryan is here and will take questions.  
   
 Q.   Coach, do you think Bronson showed some pretty good poise (indiscernible)?   
COACH RYAN:   Bronson showed a lot of poise.   That was a good team we played in an environment that was pretty electric.   He was on the floor some against St. John's, but he just has been proving in practice, and, you know, when he was on the scout team and he scored like ten straight baskets against the other guys.   
I thought it would be a good idea maybe to move him over to our side rather than the far side.   I'm not talking about the comic.   He's got a lot of basketball skill, a lot of moxie, a lot of just knows how to play and can get things done.   He's learning how to play defense the way we need him to.   
So, yeah, I thought he handled himself really well.  
   
 Q.   Taking advantage of redshirt seasons these days.   What are your thoughts about having four guys on your team play this year?   
COACH RYAN:   That's up to them.   A lot of times, a guy, by the time they're 23, 24, especially after coaching international basketball and having to coach against the Russian team and the Serbian team where all the guys were so old‑‑ "old" meaning 24 rather than 19 or 20‑‑ and sometimes guys will takethosewant‑to majors, sometimes guys aren't sure what their major is, and sometimes they'll switch.   
So if they have that fifth year in school, they would much rather be‑‑ have a chance of playing on the court than maybe they would as freshmen.   And they've heard of other people doing it, not just here, but at other places.   
As long as they're working hard as a redshirt on the scout team, it makes our scout team better every year because those guys are always loose.   They get extra lifts in because they're not playing in the games.   They get stronger, and they mature quite a bit.   
So to have them when they're 23, 24, knowing that at probably 18, 19, they're not going to get very many minutes, if any, sometimes, it works out for everybody.  
   
 Q.   With such a crammed schedule this week, the three games in a short span, what are the benefits of that?   
COACH RYAN:   It is what it is because of when teams could come in here and play.   We talk enough about scheduling every year.   I don't know how to twist it any differently.   I'm not trying to slant it in any way.   It is what it is because of so many factors that you have to deal with.   
So Patrick's told everyone how many teams have played teams from power conferences.   He does a great job of getting those stats out there and all of that.   This was just the way they fell on the schedule because of when the opponents could play.   As well as when we could play.   
So one‑day preparation, it happens in the tournament.   Not the Big Ten Tournament.   But you'd like to have a day in there.   But in the NCAA tournament, so it's ‑‑ you've got to be doing well what you're doing right now.   
You're trying to get your team ready.   So three opponents in five and a half days, it better be about what you're trying to get done, more so than what the opponent brings, even though we do like days to prepare.  
   
 Q.   In your time here, do you remember a schedule that started out with three tougher games than you've started out with this year?   And how do you think your team has reacted from those games?   
COACH RYAN:   The only thing we know for certain is we're 3‑0.   What we've taken from it remains to be seen because then there's the next one, the next one being tomorrow night.   
They've answered the bell.   Each of the teams that we've played definitely had the potential to put us on the right‑hand side.   Some were more athletic.   Some were more experienced.   Some were more‑‑ you know, are better in different ways.   
But our guys found a way to get them.   Two of them were fairly close, and the other one, even though it might have been 10 or 11, it still was a close game.   Those were three hard‑fought games.  
   
 Q.   When George does game back, what would you like to see out of him to contribute a little more on the court?   
COACH RYAN:   I don't know.   I just hope that‑‑ we'll work with that when he does come back.   I can't‑‑ medically, I don't know anything that I didn't know yesterday, just that he wasn't able to be out there.   
When he does come back, he'll be trying to contribute in any way he can, defensively, offensively, shooting‑wise.   
It's pretty competitive there in the backcourt.   Can't hiccup a lot.  
   
 Q.   What surprised you most so far this season in terms of your players?   Maybe you can call it a pleasant surprise.   
COACH RYAN:   If you don't appreciate what Nigel has given us, then you haven't been around this game.   Not you, I'm talking about anybody looking at our team.   If you couldn't say that he's the one guy that‑‑ more so than anybody else, you'd have to say he has done things that maybe a lot of people wouldn't have expected.   
So when you say surprise, it isn't like you walk into a room and, surprise, it's a birthday party.   It's a surprise in that he's been able to handle things so well.   
We should do that thing with the hats.   I'm going to coach until 18, 17, 16 and then pick one of the hats.   I thought about that when those guys were doing that thing on TV about what school they're going to.   2000 whatever.   I just thought that was‑‑ how about you?   You're going to work at WKKQ for how many more years?   And then‑‑ you know, have you pull a hat.   Or grab one, fake it, and put it back and grab another one.   Okay.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT