VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 10, 2018
Sam Burns
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
SAM BURNS: Great.  Obviously as a kid growing up I saw Tiger Woods.  I think it's really good to see him back, healthy and playing golf and obviously playing well.   
 Q.  Describe for us your status on Tour, how it's going to work.  You need to make points to qualify for the year?  
SAM BURNS: That's correct.  I don't really know what it is, to be honest with you.  I kind of have status on the Web but hopefully a good day tomorrow will take care of whatever needs to be done.   
 Q.  Sam, tell us how good it was out there.  
SAM BURNS: Got off to a good start on 1, made a good birdie putt and couple of birdies on 8 and 9.  Made one bad swing on 13, tough hole.  Got to put it in the right spot on that green and I didn't, obviously.   
But it was nice eagle on 14.  I hit a good tee shot, had a good number.  Obviously kind of a tough second shot not being able to see the green but other than that it was a great day.   
 Q.  Are you getting more comfortable in these situations after what happened at the Honda?  
SAM BURNS: I think I feel comfortable out here.  I was telling someone the other day, I think with every start I start to know these guys a little better and become friends with them.  I think that obviously helps, you know, knowing the guys out here and getting more comfortable playing on these golf courses and playing with people watching and stuff like that.  Yeah, I think with every start I'm starting to feel a little bit more comfortable.   
 Q.  I think you're in the field next week at Bay Hill.  
SAM BURNS: I am.   
 Q.  Do you have any idea what you need to do this week to get --  
SAM BURNS: I don't, really.   
 Q.  You want me to tell you?  
SAM BURNS: I really don't know.  Hopefully tomorrow I can take care of it.   
 Q.  What's your level of expectation, big picture for you?  
SAM BURNS: I'm going to go out tomorrow and try to have a good routine warming up, try to hit golf shots out there and put myself in the best position to play well.   
 Q.  What did you do between Honda and here?  
SAM BURNS: Went back home, saw my coach for a couple of days and then my girlfriend is a senior at LSU so she had a sorority function, formal, last one.   
I went down there and spent some time with her and saw my friends down there in Baton Rouge.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT