U.S. AMATEUR FOUR-BALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 5, 2015
Sam Burns
Austin Connelly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Let's start with the 8 hole.  You had started out well and they came back and got it all squared.  How did you win the 8th hole?  AUSTIN CONNELLY: Well, Sam hit a really good shot in there.  It didn't end up as close as we would have liked, and pitched about two feet from the hole and skipped back to about 40 feet (Indiscernible) and ended up getting it in with two.   Q.  Did you see the putt?  SAM BURNS: Yeah, Austin had a similar putt from the back of the green.  Was that today?   AUSTIN CONNELLY: Yeah, this morning.   SAM BURNS: So I saw that, and I think that kind of got the momentum going our way.  We just lost the last two holes, right?  Yeah, we lost the last two holes to get all square.  And he had hit one in there ten feet or so, so once I made that and he missed, it gave us the momentum through the rest of the round.   Q.  The match seemed to be hanging on that edge where you're up until you got to 16.  Tell me how you got the birdie on 16?  AUSTIN CONNELLY: Well, really, it's a tough pin to get at.  I hit two good shots.  I had 95 yards to the hole, and before the pin was tucked slightly down wind, I wasn't able to hit it right at it believe it or not, so I ended up playing about 20 feet to the left.  Hit it just where I wanted to, tried to hole it back against the wind a little bit, and it was up about 20 feet.   SAM BURNS: That was the exact same putt the guys made earlier.   AUSTIN CONNELLY: Yeah, it was the exact same putt.  So I was confident standing over it.  I had a good line.  There was a spike mark just exactly where I was trying to start it, so got right up next to the hole, and made sure I kept the pace on it.  And hit it exactly how I wanted.   Q.  Sam, was there any key part that you thought today that kept your momentum going?  We talked about the birdies, but were there any pars out there that kept you guys on top?  SAM BURNS: What do you think?  I mean, they kind of gave us a gift on, what was that, 12?   AUSTIN CONNELLY: Yeah, 12.   SAM BURNS: They missed a three-footer.   AUSTIN CONNELLY: We had the exact same putt, and I made mine.  He missed his.   SAM BURNS: Yeah, so other than that, I think we played pretty solid, and we stopped playing easy out here.  The golf course is getting heard and harder every day.  The greens are faster, and the rough is growing, so I think a lot of pars out here is not a bad score.  Some of these pins they had today were really tough to get at, especially if you have 6, 5, 7-irons in for sure.   Q.  Sam, you had to make a decision about going back to Louisiana to play?  SAM BURNS: Yeah.   Q.  Are you happy with that decision now?  Not just because you're this far.  SAM BURNS: I have kind of mixed emotions about it.  The reason I didn't go back is one of our best players got hurt, so he couldn't play, so I didn't think we'd have a chance to win.  But obviously I wanted to be there with my teammates for my last year and have that experience with them one more time, but I've enjoyed just as much out here with Austin. We're great Buds, and now we're now into the semifinals.  So really, whatever decision I made, someone was going to think it was the wrong one anyways, so it's kind of a tough spot to be in, but sometimes you just have to make tough decisions, and that's what it was.   Q.  Austin, are you surprised at all that you've gotten this far with Sam in this championship?  AUSTIN CONNELLY: Honestly, no.  I feel like we were playing really well coming in.  We played very good golf in the practice round.  Really both hitting a lot of fairways.  Had pretty good distance control with our irons, which is key out here.  And I feel like we're hitting a lot of quality golf shots.   Q.  Last question for you both.  Obviously, there is a lot of golf in these championships and stroke play and then a lot of Match Play events.  Is playing a lot of team events and international events, does that help you guys in this situation knowing how much golf is to be played here?  AUSTIN CONNELLY: Absolutely it does.  Just having the strategy down.  Sometimes you're playing to really help out your partner.  If that means that you're in the right rough and you have to get it back on the fairway to try to save par to give your partner a chance to give his birdie putt the roll, sometimes you have to do that and you don't necessarily think that way in stroke play all the time.   SAM BURNS: I think that's one of the reasons we're doing so well is because we understand each other's games.  Our games are very similar, and we know when an opportunity comes for birdie that the other guy needs to secure the par.  So I think from that mentality, that's why we're doing so well is because we understand that it's not about me.  It's about us.   AUSTIN CONNELLY: Yeah, we play very well together also.  We play very similar styles.  It's very rare that both of us are out of the hole or very rare that one of us are out of the hole.  So we usually have one if not two chances for birdie at pretty much every hole.   SAM BURNS: Yeah, that's kind of our game plan coming in this week.  Just give ourselves as many looks at birdie as possible, and we've done that pretty well so far, so we'll just keep doing that.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT