VALERO TEXAS OPEN
March 24, 2015
Sam Burns
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DAVE SENKO:   Well, we'd like to welcome Sam Burns, who is the reigning AJGA Rolex Junior Player‑of‑the‑Year, to the Valero Texas Open media center.  
Sam, maybe just get us started, tell us a little bit how this whole thing came about of getting the invitation to play here.  
SAM BURNS:   Yeah, so I played in the 2014 Junior PGA Championship and that's where they announced the exemption into this tournament.   I actually ‑‑ before the tournament started at the dinner is when I first heard about it.   I think that kind of motivated all of us to win that tournament.   That was a pretty big deal for a PGA Tour exemption.   
I think it's great for Junior Golf to have an opportunity to get to play on a TOUR event.   I think it's great for Junior Golf.   It's great for the PGA Tour to offer that.   
DAVE SENKO:   LSU this fall.   Had you had an opportunity to talk to any players, any PGA Tour players, about what to expect here, maybe a little about the golf course before you got here?   
SAM BURNS:   Yes, sir, I'm from Shreveport, Louisiana, that's where David Toms lives.   I'm pretty good friends with his son, I see him pretty often.   I've asked him questions about what's it like, what's the atmosphere.   I've been to a couple, I'm kind of familiar with what it's like from outside the ropes.   But it's a little different obviously inside the ropes with people watching.   And to play with Jordan Spieth and Martin Kaymer, that's great.  
   
 Q.   You had a chance to play the golf course, what are your impressions of the course, itself?   
SAM BURNS:   Yeah, it's in perfect condition.   Hats off to the grounds crew.   They did a great job.   The greens are absolutely perfect, I think.  
This course is a good test, especially off the tee.   If you miss the fairway you're in‑‑ I don't know what you want to call it‑‑ junk.   It can really penalize you.   So I think you have to stay focused out there and make sure you're picking good lines and hitting your lines well because if not, then it could be a bad thing.   
DAVE SENKO:   Now, what's your schedule like going forward before school starts next fall?   
SAM BURNS:   Yeah, playing in a couple more junior tournaments, and then I'll play some amateur events, U.S. Am, Sunnehanna Amateur, Northeast, Thunderbird on the AJGA Tour, just some Junior tournaments and Amateur events.  
   
 Q.   Sam, how do you think you're going to feel that first tee box Thursday?   Have you been thinking about that?  
SAM BURNS:   I have.   I think I'll be a little nervous, as any kid would be.   But I think in the same respect that it's not about getting too nervous because of the stage or the atmosphere, you just have to stay focused and be grateful that you're here.   Not a lot of 18 years old get this opportunity.   Very grateful, God has blessed me with the opportunity to play this week.   Just go out and have a good time.   My brother will be on the bag, so we'll stay pretty relaxed.  
   
 Q.   What would you be doing if you weren't here, would you be back at school, I hope you have an excuse?  
SAM BURNS:   Probably at lunch right now.   Yeah, at school, hanging out, doing a little work here and there.   So it's definitely a good pass.  
   
 Q.   Are you going to prom this year?  
A.No, I'm actually missing it for another tournament.   Unfortunately missing my last prom.   
   
 Q.   How was playing with Jordan today in the practice round?   A guy as someone that's been in your shoes before, what did he tell you?  
SAM BURNS:   He said go out and have some fun, not let all the hype get to you.   He's been through this.   He's young.   He knows what it's like.   So I think playing with him was a great person to learn from because he's already done this.   He just said have fun, go out there and have a good time.   
   
 Q.   You seen Jordan Spieth's success.   What expectations are you setting for yourself this week?  
SAM BURNS:   I think just the main thing is have a good time.   I mean it's hard to set expectations for yourself if you've never been in this position, to play in a Tour event.   I think I'm just going to be honored to be here.   Whatever happens, God already knows, so I'm just playing the part.   So I think whatever happens it's for a reason.   
   
 Q.   You've obviously played with David a lot.   It's not a stage like this, but how much getting a chance to play with a Tour player and you practiced at his facility, you see him all the time, how much do you think that's going to help you this week?  
SAM BURNS:   Yeah, I think it will be a big deal.   He's a relaxed guy.   He's pretty open about what it's like out here, and getting to play with him and see what it takes, where my game needs to be to compete out here.   So I think that will definitely help a lot going forward.  
DAVE SENKO:   How much of your family will be here this week, everyone?  
SAM BURNS:   Everybody, my main family, mom, dad, brother, sister, sister‑in‑law, we'll have the whole crew here.   
   
 Q.   What do you hope to take out of this tournament, here, what's the big take away you want to come away with?  
SAM BURNS:   Just enjoy the experience.   You get to meet some new people, see what it's like for‑‑ I've been coming to this for a long time.   So just to take it in.   That doesn't mean I want to go out there and not play well.   I'm here to play my best and if that's the case, then I think I'll be in good shape.   So just to learn from what everybody else is doing, see how they prepare, see what they're doing off the course, how they handle the media, the fans, that kinds of stuff.   
   
 Q.   I hear you're an avid hunter?  
SAM BURNS:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Talk about that a little bit.   
SAM BURNS:   Unfortunately it's not hunting season, I'd probably be in a deer stand.   Yeah, I just enjoy hunting a lot.   My dad took me since I was a little kid.   I think it's something you're raised with that I'll never get out of.   I enjoy it.   I probably enjoy that more than being on the golf course sometimes.  
   
 Q.   I read something where your mom thought this golf would be a phase for you.   You play football.   What happened with that?  
SAM BURNS:   Well, I guess I wasn't good enough.   That's kind of what happened to that.   Took up golf and I fell in love with it, became obsessed with the game.   I still love football, wish I could still play sometimes.   But after a bad day on the golf course, suiting up in some pads.   But just wasn't good enough.   
   
 Q.   Do you have a sense out there, just one short round, that you've fit in, do you feel like you'll fit in Thursday?  
SAM BURNS:   We'll see how that goes this week.   I'm just out here to play my best, whatever my best is I'll find out this week.   So just coming out here to have a good time is really the main goal.   
   
 Q.   It's got to be pretty awe inspiring to be out here playing with and against guys you've watched on TV for years probably?  
SAM BURNS:   Yeah, it's a big honor, I'm very grateful to be here.   Like I said, I think it's great for Junior golf to let kids our age have that opportunity.   I think if they don't get the opportunity to play at that young of an age, they won't be that prepared whenever they're 25 or 30.   I think this will help a lot for me personally later down the road, whenever I play in another event.   
DAVE SENKO:   Thank you, Sam.   Good luck this week.   
SAM BURNS:   Thank you.   Appreciate it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT