U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2014
Sam Burns
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Talk about today where you had seven birdies and a bogey.  Great round.  SAM BURNS: Thank you.  I knew I could come out here and attack.  I knew this course was a little bit easier than the Highlands, so I felt like the way I was hitting it, I could put myself in good position to make some putts and I did that.  So pleased with it.   Q.  What was the thing that got you jump started today?  SAM BURNS: On 2, kind of hit in the left bunker and wasn't looking like very good position and hit a really good shot to six feet and made it.  I think that got me some momentum going early.   Q.  How about the run on 12, 13, 14; what did you do well on those three holes?  SAM BURNS: Yeah, I knew those were good birdie holes.  Got lucky on 12.  Taylor (ph) was right next to me and literally like the balls were almost touching.  He gave me a perfect line and made that one and hit 5-iron to the middle of the green on 13, the par 5 and 2-putted.  14, I got lucky and made a 30-footer.   Q.  You possibly could be the medalist when the day is over.  What would that mean to you?  SAM BURNS: Oh, that would be awesome.  Coming into this week, I just wanted to make it to match play.  Got to survive the first couple days, so to be in the position I am, very pleased with it.   Q.  You've got a high seed; does a high seed mean a lot to you or it's not a big advantage going into match play?  SAM BURNS: I'm not really sure.  I mean, it makes you feel good about yourself, the way you played the first couple days, so I think confidence-wise it's definitely a booster there. But I think it comes down to just playing one-on-one with somebody.  It's really not a big deal.   Q.  Besides the fact that you're playing different courses, what was better about your game today than yesterday?  SAM BURNS: Put myself in better places off the tee.  Gave myself better looks on the green.  So capitalized on some of those putts.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT