WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 4, 2021
Sam Burns
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Nice round today.  The statistics say that the strokes gained putting were pretty good.  How would you say your putting went today?
SAM BURNS:   Yeah, kind of got off to a slow start.  Bogeyed 11, had to take an unplayable.  But yeah, I think Travis my caddie did a good job of just keeping us in it.  I feel like I knew we had some opportunities coming up on 13 and 15.  We were able to capitalize on those.  So yeah, I think overall solid round.
Q. You went 8-under on a 10-hole stretch there as you made the turn.  What was that like?
SAM BURNS:   I didn't know I did that.  Yeah, I think we had a good strategy.  It started with getting the ball in the right position off the tee, and fortunately we were able to attack from there and able to convert on the putts.
Yeah, I think we'll continue to have a good strategy out there on the golf course.
Q. What was it like out there with the fans?  Not as crazy as it usually is, but at least there's some people out here?
SAM BURNS:   Yeah, I remember yesterday I was on the putting green and I heard some people clapping on 10, and I was like, what was that?  I haven't heard that in while.  But yeah, it's obviously great for us to have the fans out.  Hopefully we have some great weather, so hopefully they're enjoying it, as well.
Q. This golf course obviously gives up a lot of birdies out here.  What's it like trying to keep pace and constantly having to be on the attack?
SAM BURNS:   Well, I think you have to pick and choose around this place.  You get a little wind, some tucked pins, you can get yourself in kind of a tough situation around the greens.
I think just managing the golf course, attacking when you have good numbers to good pins.  I think that's kind of key around here.
Q. What's it going to take to break through for you?
SAM BURNS:   Yeah, I think there's obviously a lot of golf left.  Today put us in a good position, but I think just continue to stick to our game plan.  I think sometimes in the past I've gotten away from it a little bit on the weekend.  Really I think it's just continuing to play the golf course as planned and just go from there.
Q. Out of the morning wave you lead the tournament in driving distance, 327 yards, and you lead the tournament in putting, more than 100 feet in putts.  I'm guessing you had to hit a lot of three-finger wedges into some tight hole locations today because there was a lot of slope out there and you had to control the spin.
SAM BURNS:   Yeah, we were talking about it earlier.  I feel like they used some really good pins today, some pins that I don't remember seeing here on Thursday in the past.  But yeah, the golf course is in great shape.  I think they were able to use a lot of the surface that they want to, and so just continue to pick the spots and go from there.
Q. Nine birdies in the opening round, you birdied half the holes you played.
SAM BURNS:   Yeah, I guess that's always a positive.  Hopefully be able to keep that up and go from there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT