SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 27, 2018
Sam Burns
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Good round of golf.  You've got to be very pleased.  Had to be a lot of fun.
SAM BURNS: Yeah, it was.  As you could see, we had a good group going.  I think we were kind of feeding off each other.  Corey played a fantastic round of golf and so did Taylor.
Kind of hung in there early.  Was hitting good putts.  They weren't going in but he kind of hung in there and played a good round.
Q. You impressed me.  Took that double at the par-3 13th.  Aggressive try and the wind got you I think a little bit.
SAM BURNS: Yeah.
Q. But then you bounced back with two birdies over the next three holes.
SAM BURNS: To be honest with you, I think that was probably the best shot I hit today.  170 to a back pin and we had a little help and I thought I could hit 9-iron as hard as I wanted and couldn't get to the back.
It was unfortunate that it went over.  Other than that, solid round of golf and put myself in a good place for tomorrow.
Q. I remember following you at the Honda when you played with Tiger that final day, and you played really well.  Long time since then.  Where is the game now compared to then?
SAM BURNS: I think as us golfers are always trying to find a place to improve in all aspects of our game, so I think for me working with my coach, Brad Pullin, back home always just trying to find a few different things from the stats where we can improve on.
So I think for us, we focus a lot on wedges and the driver.  Hopefully those are starting to come around kind of to where we want them.
Q. I saw a lot of family and friends following you today.  Had to be pretty cool.  Had to be 30 people out there?
SAM BURNS: Yeah, it was great.  Being pretty close to home, three and a half hours from where I grew up, very nice of them to come over and watch and support me today.
Q. What about tomorrow?  It's going to be 80 degrees, not a lot of wind.  Chance to go real low tomorrow?
SAM BURNS: Yeah, hopefully.  I'll just try to get good warmup in, go through kind of the same process I have each day, and just try to get myself in the right places out there on the golf course and hopefully take advantage of it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT