ALLSTATE BCS NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: LSU v ALABAMA
January 6, 2012
William Vlachos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  WILLIAM VLACHOS:   Playing in the National Championship two years ago, you know, we really had no idea of the opponent, Texas, because we really can't gauge on film what they're really like because they don't play the same people we play. 
So with an opponent you're so familiar with, and you know their scheme inside and out even before this preparation began, yeah, I think it gets a little monotonous to get ready; but it is a great opportunity to be able to refine the game plan and stuff like that.

Q.   Being an offensive guy, I know‑‑ I'm sure you've heard everyone go:   There were no touchdowns the first time, and they kind of grind away and say we don't want to see a rematch.   Not that you have to respond to that, but what do you tell people and say why that was a great college football game?
WILLIAM VLACHOS:   I think it was old school.   Obviously people, I'm sure, enjoyed watching West Virginia put up 70 points in a game.   I'm sure it was entertaining.   I know I was entertained by it.
But when you look at the core of football, you look at blocking, look at tackling, you look at rushing the ball, great defense, special teams play, all that type stuff, I think that game incorporated it all at a very high level.   Even though there wasn't many points scored, you're dealing with probably the two best defenses in college football in that game. 
Two offenses are also very good, and the defenses, I guess, one out, and obviously weren't able to put the ball in the end zone when we got in the red area.   I think for a true football fan, I think they really enjoyed that game.

Q.   Are there ways, when you look at it and say you can have a 9‑6 game and it could be let's say a 9‑6 game in the Big Ten between Indiana and Purdue, and you have people look at it and go:   It's not arena football, whatever, and they can look at it and say that's a different game than the 9‑6 game you guys had, just because you look at it, you say it's more physical or whatever, but how do you judge what's a really good football game if you're sitting at home watching it?
WILLIAM VLACHOS:   You know, the last couple of years, all I can watch is the centers, whenever I watch football.   And people will tell you, I don't watch sports.   I don't watch football games unless it's people that we're going to play. 
I pretty much pay attention to the SEC, and I watch the Super Bowl.   But I think you're right.   I think that when you see a game, with the great talent on the field and the little things being done right in the physical game, that's the type of game that I appreciate to watch.

Q.   When you watched the West Virginia game, are you just looking at it going:   This is kind of amusing, because it goes so back and forth like that, or the Baylor game, have you had a chance to see that?
WILLIAM VLACHOS:   I didn't see the Baylor game.   When you watch the West Virginia game, you look at the mistakes and you see how costly they are.   You look at a 14‑point turnaround, if they don't fumble the ball at the goal line, the guy goes 99 yards for a touchdown.   It's fun.   You're sitting there waiting on Clemson to stop them. 
That's something in the SEC, particularly the defensive linemen, they're so strong, I think better than everywhere else in the country.   Just kind of‑‑ I don't think those type games are really a possibility.

Q.   Could you ever see yourself in that kind of offense, the scheme that they run?
WILLIAM VLACHOS:   I watched West Virginia's film because they played LSU earlier this year.   Yeah, you know, I wouldn't be on an offense that's very heavy pass, I don't think, because I'm kind of a perched‑off center as far as zone schemes and stuff like that; but, yeah, I think I could play that offense.

Q.   Can you talk about Alfred McCullough's development throughout this year and how he sort of gained in season opportunity given the injuries you've had to endure on the line this year?
WILLIAM VLACHOS:   He's done a great job.   He's a fifth‑year senior came here playing defense first.   He wasn't a starter going into week one.   And I think, you know, whether he deserved to be or not was kind of irrelevant, but I think he put a lot into the preseason and the offseason to be a starter, and he wasn't. 
And our new offensive line coach said to hang in there, keep working hard, everything would work out, and sure enough it did.   He comes in halfway through the year and doesn't miss a beat and starting a National Championship. 

Q.   Do you feel like things like the Barrett Jones' injury were some of the reasons why things fell apart towards the end of the LSU game?
WILLIAM VLACHOS:   I mean, no, not really.   Barrett finished the game.   Barrett played fine in the game.   I don't think that was much of a factor. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT