NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: MIGHTY DUCKS v DEVILS
June 3, 2003
Pat Burns
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Pat, have you gotten any more information on whether or not you think Joe Nieuwendyk will be available for Game 5?
 
COACH BURNS: Guys, I just walked in the door.  I didn't talk to anybody.  I know that Bill said he was going to skate  -- I think he did, or they were going to skate tomorrow.  They did skate today.  That's all we got.  I'll know tomorrow more. 
 
Q.  I was wondering, not to take anything away from Giguere's performance, but did you think you generated enough scoring chances?
 
COACH BURNS: No.  We didn't make them work.  
 
Q.  What can you do better?
 
COACH BURNS: I think we have to be a little more excited about it when we got the puck.  We didn't seem to be excited about getting things done there.  We'll have to generate more.  He certainly didn't get a whole lot of work. 
 
Q.  Pat, you said that both Joe and Turner both skated?
 
COACH BURNS: I believe they did.  This is what I think I was told.  I believe Turner skated, and I believe Joe, whether he skated today, or he might skate tomorrow morning or afternoon.  I'm not sure what will happen there. 
 
Q.  Pat, can you compare the physical play of your team in Games 1 and 2 versus 3 and 4, and do you think it needs to be stepped up?
 
COACH BURNS: I think so.  That comes to home ice and who makes the change and who's on the ice.  I think that's basically it.  You're right about that.  We didn't generate enough on the physical side of the game.  It's up to us to respond to it on Thursday. 
 
Q.  Pat, Patrick Elias yesterday said he thought the team was a little bit passive in the Final five or ten minutes of the game.  Did you get that sense?
 
COACH BURNS: To protect a tie.  I don't think that was our intention.  If that's what it looked like, I don't think anybody wants to play to protect a tie.  We didn't generate much.  We have to get a little more excited about the game than that. 
 
Q.  Pat, what do you think the mental state of the team is right now?
 
COACH BURNS: Very good.  Very good. 
 
Q.  Marty said he thought that the two days off would be to the Devils' benefit because they're not really used to this kind of travel.  Do you think travel will be a factor, and how do you prevent it from being a factor?
 
COACH BURNS: That was one of our points at the start of these playoffs is that they're probably used to the travel situation more than we are.  But I don't think  -- I think the two days will definitely be to our average and be beneficial to us. 
 
Q.  Pat, I know this is your first year with the team, but Marty, for some reason, as much success as he's had, his record in overtime isn't that great.  Can you attribute that to anything?
 
COACH BURNS: Again, he made a great save on that first shot.  We can't fault him for that goal.  I thought he made  -- we missed a chance to get it, and they came down.  We forgot about Steve Thomas sneaking up from behind. 
 
Q.  Pat, do you have any thoughts about what a quarter of a Joe Nieuwendyk or a half of a Joe Nieuwendyk could give you in Game 5?
 
COACH BURNS: He was our best player in the Ottawa series before he got hurt.  He was at the top of his game.  Just his presence definitely helps us.  We're playing with two guys who didn't play a whole lot in Rupp and Bicek, although we have nothing to say against them.  They both played a good game last night.  I think with the presence of a Joe Nieuwendyk and/or a Turner Stevenson definitely gives us a little bit more experience in the lineup. 
 
Q.  You know the body language of your team.  Can you elaborate on sort of regaining that emotional edge that you think wasn't quite there in Anaheim?
 
COACH BURNS: Two games in overtime is very difficult to say that your team was down.  If you get swamped 6, 7-0, then you can say we've got a problem.  I think travel might have something to do with it, the time change might have something to do with it.  Certainly I'm not down, and we're still excited here and we're dying for this game to get going again.  I don't think we should be saying that this team has let itself down or didn't show up.  We lost two games in overtime without those guys in the lineup too.  We've got to get a little more excited.  I agree with that.  I don't think this team has quit or thought at any point in time that we were down and out. 
 
Q.  The fact that you kept Sykora and Kariya off the scoreboard is something to be happy about?
 
COACH BURNS: There is a lot of things we've got to be excited about.  I think Mr.  Eisner has planned the parade for the Finals, saying that our fans aren't very good.  We'll see about that Thursday night. 
 
Q.  When you win the first two games like you did, any chance at all those two wins might have come a little too easily?
 
COACH BURNS: They didn't come easy at all.  The Ducks didn't stumble into these Finals.  They had to beat some pretty good teams.  The respect that we're showing them is definitely the respect they earned. 
 
Q.  Do you need to attack differently at all?
 
COACH BURNS: No, I don't think it's that.  I think we have to get down in their end and work a little more from there.  I don't think it's a question where we're selecting our shots.  We didn't get that many shots.  You've got to get them first. 
 
Q.  Pat, a little off the subject.  Do you have any comment about Peter Laviolette getting dismissed by the owners?
 
COACH BURNS: You've got to be kidding me.  Get out of here.  I just got in.  I didn't hear about this.  I'm truly shocked.  I thought he did a good job.  You've caught me in a big shock.  Big shock.   
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT