NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: MIGHTY DUCKS v DEVILS
June 2, 2003
Pat Burns
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Pat, it must be heartbreaking, very disappointing for you to see that you played a solid game, but again it's been decided by one goal in overtime?

COACH BURNS: That's what these playoffs are all about.  That's why we play these game.  The shots were 25, 26.  That's what it's all about.  You're disappointed, but you can't be down.  You've got to be uplifted.  Now it's 2 out of 3.  We go back home, regroup and get ready.

Q.  You put Rupp in tonight for McKenzie.  What was your thought process there?

COACH BURNS: He has maybe a little more probably to give us on the faceoff.  Although he struggled too.  They beat us up pretty good again on the faceoffs.  It wasn't the cause of any goals.  I don't think that was the main purpose, but Rupp gave us a couple good shifts too.  He's a big, strong kid, hadn't played in a while.  So we debated that probably at the team lunch and talked about it and finally we decided we would make that change.

Q.  It seemed like last game was more emotional and this one was more tense.  Was there a difference for you guys?  Coach Babcock said this was more like a chess match than last game.

COACH BURNS: We weren't overly concerned with the changes.  It didn't cause anything.  We wanted to make sure our defense plays alright.  I thought last time we cut too much flow out.  When you start changing lines too much, that happens.  On a stoppage of play we'll make the change.  We don't get overly excited, making them too quick on the ice.  I don't think it's a chess match.  As these games go on, the intensity level is going to become stronger and stronger.

Q.  Pat, can back-to-back overtime losses take a little more out of a team than if it happened in regulation?

COACH BURNS: You've got to forget it.  They're a hot team in overtime.  They're confident in overtime, and that's  -- we knew that and we tried to change that invincible thing for them.  We missed a chance.  That game could have been over right before he scored.  Usually that happens, you miss on the chance, the team comes back and haunts you and gets one.  And that's what happened.  


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT