NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: MIGHTY DUCKS v DEVILS
June 2, 2003
Pat Burns
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Pat, are you contemplating any lineup changes at all tonight?

COACH BURNS: No, I don't think so.

Q.  Pat, why have these two teams been so effective when scoring first, 19 and 0?

COACH BURNS:  All the playoffs are like that now.  I don't think it's been the whole situation because there's been teams we've played -- I know they said that was a big thing in the Ottawa series and it didn't turn out to be in Game  7 because they scored first.  Why is it?  I don't know.  I really can't answer why.  You can't panic.  Statistics say that it's that.  Why, I don't know.  I don't know.

Q.  Pat, is there anything that you can do about faceoffs or need to do about faceoffs or is that just the way it's going to be?

COACH BURNS:  Don't have to win them, but can't lose them.

Q.  Do you feel you lost the last game because you were outplayed or because you had a fluky goal scored on you?  In other words, do you have to make a whole bunch of adjustments tonight?

COACH BURNS:  How can you make a whole bunch of adjustments when you win in overtime?  It was that close.  It came down to one faceoff.  I bet you put 100 pucks there and try to score on Marty at practice, you won't score.  What are you going to do, change your whole system for that?

Q.  Pat, oftentimes this year in the playoffs you have had the ability to bounce back after a loss.  Can you talk about how you feel about your club coming into tonight's Game 4?

COACH BURNS:  I hope we can.  We've done it.  We have to try to do it again tonight.  We had a good meeting with the players last night.  We talked about things, showed some things, video, and we have to do it. 

Q.  Pat, anything new on Turner and Joe?

COACH BURNS:  Ask Rich.  I guess things are going pretty good.  That's the last report I had.  I guess things are going pretty good.  They haven't skated yet.

Q.  Do you worry at all about this series progressing to a sixth or seventh game and at some point fatigue might kick in for you guys whereas they might be able to take advantage of it?

COACH BURNS:  I can't really answer that.  We're not really there.  Those are questions, what if, what if, what if?  I can't answer "what if" questions.  If you ask me if I want to go that long, I would say no.  If we do we'll see what happens.

Q.  Any physical effects with Pandolfo?

COACH BURNS:  You've seen him play all year long.  He's the Everyready Bunny.  You wind him up and send him out there.  He works his heart out and those are maintenance decisions that you do for players a lot of times.  All coaches do that.  All teams do that.

Q.  I guess yesterday Giguere was trying to say basically they're not trying to make a big deal of the fluke goal, but it is a big deal.  Do you think that was brought out there maybe to put that in your guys' minds?  Again, was that something that didn't affect you guys?

COACH BURNS:  It didn't affect us.  Giguere can think what he wants.  I would worry about his game more than I would worry about Marty's game.

Q.  But, Coach, do you worry at all about a fluky goal altering the way the playoffs are going?

COACH BURNS:  No.

Q.  The video you went over, I hate to keep harping on the faceoffs, but was that a large part of it?

COACH BURNS:  No, I don't think that fluky goal had anything to do with a faceoff.  It had to do with a line change.  That's another point we have to be better at tonight.  Like I said yesterday, were you at the press conference yesterday?  Gomez wasn't a guy who took faceoffs a lot last year.  You have to work around things.  We can't invent a top faceoff guy right now going into Game 4 of the Finals of the Stanley Cup Finals.  Albelin has been eliminated for a long time.  Should we call him back?  He's out fishing somewhere, "You want to come back and take some big draws in Game 4?"  Who knows, maybe Nieuwendyk might be suiting up the next game 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT