NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: MIGHTY DUCKS v DEVILS
May 31, 2003
Pat Burns
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Coach, do you feel like your team just didn't play as well as it did the first two games, or is it more them pick it up?

COACH BURNS: Obviously, they got some breaks and that's what it's all about.  I told you that at the start of the playoff series.  Teams got to get breaks and they got them tonight and we didn't get them.

Q.  Pat, you've watched Marty Brodeur play a million games and handle the puck.  You must never have seen a play like that?

COACH BURNS: It happens to the best of the goaltenders.  It's not the end of the world.

Q.  But it doesn't happen very often in the Stanley Cup Finals.

COACH BURNS: Have you been watching them all?  A fellow by the name of Patrick Roy never did that?  I remember him grabbing one and throwing it right back into the slot.  He probably got a crack in the ice or fumbled the puck.  Are you going to fault the goaltender for the game for that?  I don't think so.  I don't think so.  I'm not going to fault him for that for sure.

Q.  Now, it's like Anaheim seems like they're playing better?

COACH BURNS: Because they won.

Q.  Coach, are you worried about your faceoff situation?

COACH BURNS: I have been worried all year long about my faceoff situation.  It's nothing new.  We haven't had that  -- Joe Nieuwendyk not being here, that really hurts us.  We struggled a good part of the season on faceoffs.  It came down to that.

Q.  Pat, you mentioned the faceoffs.  When you lose it completely, it's not like a scramble, there is no time to react either.

COACH BURNS: It's obviously right.  It's not supposed to happen, but it's going to happen in games whether it be Stanley Cup Finals or not.

Q.  Do you feel like you had a chance to seize the momentum with those early powerplays?

COACH BURNS: Sure we did.  We had a good chance.  If we won the game tonight, it would put ourselves in a great position.  It's not because we didn't show up that they won.  It was a good game tonight.  And it came down to errors and mistakes like every hockey game does, and you need some breaks.  We made a mistake tonight on that final goal, and it can't happen. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT