NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: MIGHTY DUCKS v DEVILS
May 30, 2003
Pat Burns
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  We've heard that neither Joe Nieuwendyk or Turner Stevenson are in California.  Can I say why and what plans there are to bring them here?
 
COACH PAT BURNS: It all depends on how the situation turns here.  One thing, because of their injuries, sitting on a plane for a long spurt wouldn't have helped the situation.  There are physical therapists back home that can do a better job than sitting on a plane for six or seven hours and doing half treatment in a medical room.  We figure we'll see what happens after next game.  
 
Q.  Pat, can you talk about Jeff Friesen, what he's doing now over this stretch of games where he scored so many goals when he didn't have this streak over the season?
 
COACH PAT BURNS: He was pretty good over the season, too, especially when he started playing with Joe Nieuwendyk.  It's a question of another Western guy going to the Eastern Conference trying to figure it out.  I think the second half, he had a very good second half and so far had a very good playoff.  
 
Q.  When you put Tverdovsky in the lineup originally before Game 1, you said you would hope he would rise to the challenge.  Can you comment on how he's performed in these two games?
 
COACH PAT BURNS: You've seen the games.  I don't think he's done anything that would merit a lot of criticism.  He's keeping it the way we play.  That's what we want him to do, and he's doing it.  
 
Q.  Pat, how much of a factor, with all your experience, is it when players play against their old teams, and how much can that lift or hurt their games?
 
COACH PAT BURNS: Geez, I don't know.  I've seen it help; I've seen it hinder.  I think that's a question to be forwarded to the player, how he feels playing against his former teammates.  I've seen both sides of the story.  
 
Q.  Do you feel it's helping them?
 
COACH PAT BURNS: It could.  Again, those questions would have to be forwarded to them.  I think they would be in a better position to answer that.  Like Friesen, he's played well in the second half of the season.  And we haven't played Anaheim since January.  I don't think it made a difference.  
 

Q.  Your team is really the first in being able to create traffic in front of the net and playing physical.  What is it that you think your team has that you're able to do that against this team where other teams have failed?
 
COACH PAT BURNS: I watched a lot of the tape of the other games.  The other teams did that too.  I think it's a question of breaks and bounces that we happened to be fortunate to get that other teams didn't.  Giguere made some great, great saves and a lot of times he just makes saves that nobody would have thought he would have made.  I know Dallas did it very well.  I think in that first game, Minnesota, they dominated that game in Minnesota against them.  I think they were all over them, but they just couldn't put it past him.  We're not going to take the credit of being geniuses here saying we've done what others can't.  I think we have been fortunate to get good bounces.  I don't think any other team did it a lot different.  Maybe the position we get into at the proper time just happens to be that.  I saw the other teams do the same thing.  
 
Q.  Pat, how does Brylin's versatility help make up for the loss of Nieuwendyk?
 
COACH PAT BURNS: It's very big.  You're missing Joe, and Joe is an experienced guy who would have really nourished in these kinds of games.  I think that having Joe would have been an asset to us right now, especially in his faceoff position.  We don't have him, but Sergei, he's that type of player, but I said that way before today.  I've said that many times.  You can probably play him any position and he would come up strong.  
 
Q.  Coach, Grant Marshall has been an effective checker for several years and a Stanley Cup winner, but it seems like new-found offensive skills.  Are you asking him to do something different?  Are you planning to keep him with Gomez and Elias?
 
COACH PAT BURNS: I don't think so.  I think the thing is, sometimes players fall into position with teams, that things work out better than they did with others.  They're not asked to be the player that has to do everything.  I think with Grant, he falls into place with the team that he feels comfortable with, and the things he does well happens to coincide with the way we play.  
 
Q.  At this point with the experience on your team, do you have to say anything about there is nothing accomplished yet?
 
COACH PAT BURNS: No.  
 
Q.  Maybe as a follow-up to that, is there anything you want to see your team do better at this point?  Are they at a level right now the way they play that if they sustain that, that's good enough?
 
COACH PAT BURNS: You always want to see a perfect game.  Unfortunately, that doesn't exist.  I think what we do, we have to go into the game thinking about the way we have to play.  If there is an adjustment that has to be made, we'll adjust to it.  We play the way we play.  You don't change systems at this time of year.  Your team plays the way it's played, and the habits that's been going on since training camp are still there now.  That's one of the reasons you have success.  
 
Q.  Pat, your team has remained very level-headed.  Does it make it any easier for you to have the players on this team having already won Stanley Cups in their careers and maybe not get too giddy?
 
COACH PAT BURNS: Sure.  Players know what it takes.  We've won a lot of games, all of us together, and we did have a good regular season also.  I think the whole team understands that they really -- the helmets have to fit right in the mornings and the feet have to be solid on the ice.  It's not hard with this club.  
 
Q.  Pat, what do you anticipate in terms of the way you think Anaheim will play in the next game?
 
COACH PAT BURNS: That's tough for me to answer what Anaheim is going to do better.  What I anticipate is they're going to be better.  I said that after Game 1.  They were better in Game 2.  I assume they're probably going to be better in game 3. 
   
 
Q.  All healthy from last night?
 
COACH PAT BURNS: Yeah.  Just rest the guys.  That's why we brought the third goalie.  We don't want Marty out there practicing too long for nothing.  
 
Q.  Can you remember a stretch when one of them was able to stay as sharp as Marty?
 
COACH PAT BURNS: You are really into nostalgia. 
   
 
Q.  It makes for good reading.  
 
COACH PAT BURNS: It's in the past.  I don't live in the past that much.  What was the question again?   
 
Q.  Can you remember a goalie like Marty that doesn't face too many shots and nothing's gotten by? 
 
COACH PAT BURNS: Felix Potvin in Toronto.  He was good on that team.  That was the way we played him.  He would be called upon to make a big save.  That's the kind of guy he was.  He enjoyed it.  He said it's a lot easier, but those guys probably come to mind quickly.  
 
Q.  Pat, there has been a lot of speculation made about the fact that Anaheim is going to have the last change.  And how do you see the game changing?
 
COACH PAT BURNS: Obviously, it's to their advantage.  It was to our advantage the first two games.  It will be to their advantage now.  
 

Q.  Are there specific things you see that, perhaps, you think they're going to try to do?
 
COACH PAT BURNS: Yeah.  Let's see what they do.  I imagine that they're going to try to keep Rucchin away from Madden, and all the same things that you saw in Game 1 and 2 will probably be different.  There are dangers in that when you start doing that, your good players don't get on the ice.  I can leave Madden and make a second checking line and play with them, and the third line or fourth line will go out once in a while.  That's the danger of it.  Players sometimes get frustrated when there is a checking line, again, saying "I can't get on."  Sooner or later -- we don't worry about that.  We will put our power lines against checking lines and they do well.  
 
Q.  Back to Marty.  The way he's played throughout his career and never won a Vezina.  In your estimation how underrated do you think Marty has been in his career?
 
COACH PAT BURNS: I think that's unfair to him, because the "defensive system".  I think that's really, really unfair to him.  He's been our top player all year long.  He's been our go-to guy and our MVP.  He's won us games.  We all know this guy has won us games where we probably shouldn't have won.  Marty Brodeur made the difference.  When a goaltender does that, he certainly deserves that prize trophy.   
 
Q.  Any changes in the lineup?
 
COACH PAT BURNS: Not that I know of.  Tell me if there is.   
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT