NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: MIGHTY DUCKS v DEVILS
May 29, 2003
Pat Burns
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Pat, what did you think of Tverdovsky the other day?

COACH BURNS: He played pretty well.  When he keeps it the way we want him to play, that's what we want him to do. 

Q.  Pat, what are some of the things you like about Pascal's line?

COACH BURNS: They're all responsible defensively.  They're responsible with what they have to do.  Basically, they play the game like we want them to play.

Q.  Will you make any lineup changes?

COACH BURNS: No.

Q.  Will those two go on the trip out West, Nieuwendyk and Turner?

COACH BURNS: That's a good question.  I never thought of it.  I imagine they would.

Q.  Pat, does Kariya present different challenges than the Ottawa right wing did?

COACH BURNS: As a player, he does create a little problem for us because he has that speed and deceptive shot he can use.  We all talked about that during the meeting.  I don't think it's a greater problem than it was with Ottawa.  He's an all around good hockey player.

Q.  Can you just talk a little bit about why Tommy Albelin has been able to stay in the lineup for you?  What is he doing that you like?

COACH BURNS: He's moving the puck well.  He's an extra penalty-killer for us.  He's got a decent shot, and his offensive skills have never been that bad to hurt us.  He's played well for us and he earned the right to be in that fifth and sixth position.

Q.  Pat, can you talk a little bit about the importance of Scottie Stevens?

COACH BURNS: I do that on a daily basis over the course of nine months of the year.  He's terribly important to us in our lineup.  He's a silent leader.  I usually like those guys better.  On the ice, he leads by example, gets the big hits to lift your team up.  He's a tough individual.  Everybody here knows that.  He's bounced back from some amazing things.

Q.  Can you tell us the differences you see in Stevens today as opposed to 15 years ago and how he's matured as a player?

COACH BURNS: Like all players, he's matured.  The difference of 15 years ago I remember from Washington and St. Louis he was always that player where the players knew he was on the ice.  That's a big thing.  When a player doesn't know you're on the ice, it's not a good sign.  When Scottie's out there, they're aware.

Q.  You said you can use Pascal in different areas.  Did you know before that you could do that?

COACH BURNS: I didn't know much about Pascal.  I remember a little from St. Louis.  When we did get him, it takes a while before you get that coach/player confidence, and he certainly gained that.

Q.  What do you think is the significance of Stevens hitting that mark tonight?

COACH BURNS: Well, any player that plays that amount of games, there is a definite significance to it.  To be able to have the success that Scottie's had without the recognition, besides being a tough player, he knows the game very well and will make often the right play.  He doesn't often get the recognition of those kinds of players, which he should. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT