NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: MIGHTY DUCKS v DEVILS
May 26, 2003
Pat Burns
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Describe the challenge that the Anaheim team brings to you.
 
PAT BURNS: Well, obviously the challenge they bring is their record.  They've proven all the way in the playoffs that they are a team that has earned the respect that they should have, and we will certainly give them that respect. 
 
Q.  Pat, anything new as far as Nieuwendyk and Stevenson healthwise?
 
PAT BURNS: No. 
 
Q.  Pat, coaches always say to players to enjoy the finals.  Are you making sure you enjoy it as well, it's your second trip back in 14 years?
 
PAT BURNS: I'm not sure I quite understand what you mean about telling people to enjoy it. 
 
Q.  Just enjoy the experience and take it all in.
 
PAT BURNS: Well, I think this team has been there three of the last four times, most of the players, they know what it is.  They know the importance of it, the hype around it, the excitement.  It's obviously changed in the last 14 years.  There wasn't that much media 14 years ago.  It's something that you will always remember.  I think  -- but, again, we stress to the players you're not in it just to be part of it; you're in it to win it.  That's what you want to do. 
 
Q.  Pat, as of right now, are you expecting Nieuwendyk to play?
 
PAT BURNS: That is day-to-day with Joe.  Treatments are funny.  These injuries are things that are on a day-to-day basis.  He could wake up tomorrow and be fine, and if I tell you I don't, and he does, then you will say I was hiding something.  So I really don't know.  I sure hope he does. 
 
Q.  Pat, there seems to be the perception that we're going to see a lot of 0-0 long, boring hockey games in this series.  Would you deal with that?
 
PAT BURNS: The perception is there might be that.  That's a crystal ball question.  I don't know.  I think they will be good hockey games.  They said Game 7 was supposed to be boring, obviously, it turned out to be a pretty good one.  Who knows?  I think both teams will be ready.  I think we know the importance of it.  You can't get too high or low, no matter what happens.  I think you'll see some chances on both side. 
 
Q.  Pat, if Joe can't go, is Rupp an option in the middle, or are you going to stick with Sergei?
 
PAT BURNS: Anybody who is out there and practicing could be an option.  We'll see tomorrow. 
 
Q.  Pat, talk about the veterans on this team and you coming back since '89.  Is it a situation where you can learn from the players as well as they learning from you in this situation?
 
PAT BURNS: Well, you learn something new every day in coaching.  I always said, the day you think you know it all, go home.  I think the players have to do that, too.  If you walk away from the rink and you don't learn something new, you didn't do anything all day long. 
 
Q.  Pat, on a personal side, I know it's been a long time, but what do you remember from Calgary, 89?
 
PAT BURNS: It was a great series.  I didn't think this series would be about me going back here.  It seems to be turning into that.  What I remember there, I remember we lost in Game 6.  That's what I remember.  It hurt to lose.  This is the most important thing I kept from it. 
 
Q.  Pat, what are your thoughts on Tverdovsky?  Would you like to get him into the line-up?
 
PAT BURNS: It's another possibility.  We're looking and thinking of it.  We'll make that decision later in our meetings tonight.  We're not done yet.  We didn't have a whole lot of time, like Anaheim did, to go through options.  We finished playing Game 7 on Friday, we had a day off on Saturday, a short meeting yesterday, and a good one today, a practice, and we'll sit down and talk about those things tonight. 
 
Q.  How good or bad is the short break rather than the long one they've had?
 
PAT BURNS: Again, that's all a question of who knows.  Some people will say  -- I hear too many people saying that the long break hurts a team.  It might for the first five minutes of the game.  Then it's pretty good.  When your players are rested, you don't have bumps and bruises coming off Games 5, 6, 7.  Whether it's good or not, we will find out soon enough. 
 
Q.  Pat, could you talk, please, a little bit about Jeff Friesen, how he's fit into the team and his contributions, and also Tverdovsky, kind of the struggles he's had in the season and what's going on with him?
 
PAT BURNS: Jeff really has fit in.  He seemed to have ups and downs this year.  He had a great second half with Joe Nieuwendyk.  Oleg had a problem this year with an injury -- it was on and off a lot of the times.  We had to send him to see a specialist.  He had a little trouble coming back from it.  Ever since then, we had a lot of veteran defensemen, we're not afraid to use them. 
 
Q.  A lot of people are asking about Anaheim's layoff.  What about continuing your own momentum?  Could that be a help for you here?
 
PAT BURNS: It's always tough to try to rise from a high like we just left Friday, and always get back up to that again.  When you win an emotional game like we did in Game 7, unfortunately, to have players that have been around for a while, then for the focus to get back to that emotion again, it's very important.  It's fresh in our minds.  So was that victory, it was fresh in our minds.  You've got to erase that and be ready to take on another challenge. 
 
Q.  Pat, Marty is known for his composure.  You can approach him before the game.  Some people are saying that about Giguere.  Do you think that's what makes some of the greater goaltenders great?
 
PAT BURNS: Usually the good goaltenders, distractions don't phase them too much, and I know Marty is one of the ones where distractions  don't bother him too much and he's very at ease.  He doesn't have all these little witchery things that he has to do before a game.  He's probably the least guy that I've seen do all these little ceremonies before the game.  He goes out there and plays. 
 
Q.  Can you talk about Elias and Gomez, how they played in Game  7 and what you want to see out of them in the finals?
 
PAT BURNS: I would like to see them produce a little bit more.  I thought they played well enough in Game  7, get some scoring chances.  I thought Gomez had quite a few scoring chances.  You got to put those away.  
 
Q.  Pat, J.S. Giguere comes into this with just the one goal in the Western Conference Finals.  Do you approach this any differently against a goalie playing as well as he is?
 
PAT BURNS: Obviously, it's something that we have to try to figure out.  That's what the games will tell you.  I don't think the game right now, before it's even started, we would tell you how we're going to do that.  We have to find a way.  That's the main thing.  He's very confident right now.  He's on top of his game.  The team has confidence in front of him, and I think knowing that, because we're in the same situation, we're confident when Marty is playing that way, too.  So, you're going to have two teams with two excellent goaltenders and the confidence will be there.  Their job and our job is to try to break that confidence. 
 

Q.  Pat, can you talk about Anaheim's won the first two games on the road of every series they've played.  Can you talk about how important is that not to happen here?
 
PAT BURNS: Well, we certainly don't want it to happen, but if it does happen in Game  1, we don't panic about it.  That's one thing we can't do.  I think they have been on a mission every start of every playoff round, and that's the reason why they had success is because they have been able to accomplish that.  I think our job is definitely tomorrow to be ready early and make sure that doesn't happen. 
 

Q.  Coach, forgive me if someone asked this already, but you guys, coming off a seven-game series, and Anaheim having a layoff, do you think there will be a difference between the two teams coming out?
 
PAT BURNS: Like I said, it's very difficult to answer.  I don't know.  We have to go out there and play our game.  What Anaheim is going to do is going to have to be  -- Mike's going to have to answer for them.  I know my guys will be ready and coming off of Game  7, like I said, it's trying to re-find that emotion again to throw it back at them again. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT