NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: DEVILS v SENATORS
May 21, 2003
Pat Burns
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.   You have been through this enough, it's deflating right now, but do you see any advantage emotionally going into Game 7?
 
COACH BURNS: I have seen funnier things before.  It's such a wired year this year, you know, everything just happened all year long in these Playoffs, have been really odd.  Yeah, the pressure all of a sudden is going to fall on them; not on us anymore.  They are going back home and they have to win at home.  We have to go in there and play our little easy game and see what happens.  We had an opportunity tonight.  We exchanged chances, both goaltenders were very good, in overtime miscommunication two defensemen and the puck is in the net.  That's what the game is all about.  I thought it was from a fan point of view maybe a not a whole lot of goals but there were a lot of chances. 
 

Q.   Have they been a substantially better team from your perspective in games 5 and 6 than  --
 
COACH BURNS: Sure they have been.  They have been a pretty good team the whole series.  I told that the other day I said I was surprised we were up 3-1.  If you would have asked me that at start of the series if I would have said that I probably would have been laughed out of the press conference.  But we were up 3 -1 and we slowly let it slip away; now we're in going to battle for our lives when we go back there. 
 

Q.   In overtime are you concerned when pace became a little faster because that would favor Ottawa speed?
 
COACH BURNS: Well, of course, yeah, we don't want to play 4-on-4 with them.  They are such a skilled and a fast team they are so much faster than we are and we didn't want to play that type of game.  But if I was concerned, of course I am concerned the whole game through when you give them opportunities room to skate, they are going to come down and really get good chances because  -- they did it all year long.  They are just one of the good teams in the National Hockey League and you know, if you are going to trade chances with Ottawa you will probably end up on the losing end of it.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT