NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: DEVILS v SENATORS
May 19, 2003
Pat Burns
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  You warned your guys before the game that they would come out firing but they only got two shots in their first period.  Were you guys playing a bit of rope-a-dope then?

COACH BURNS: No, I don't think so.  I think that we played the way we usually played in the first.  We wanted to keep it tight in the first and we did that.  I think the penalties took a lot away from the flow of the game.  We knew they were going to come out strong at us.  We knew that.  As the game got on they seemed to get a little bit stronger.  We gave them opportunities that we shouldn't have given them too -- the turnovers at the end.  Not really our usual game, no drive to the net, we didn't have any of that.

Q.  I guess you just kind of just answered it, but were you disappointed with the effort tonight, or did you think going into the third you kind of had things where you wanted them?

COACH BURNS: I thought we had them where we wanted them.  I'm disappointed with the loss more than I am with the effort.  At this time of year I don't think effort is a question.  I think it's two good teams, things, momentums can change, from period to period, goal to goal.  These are two good teams and these things happen and we have to go back now and regroup and they have to come back to the Devils' did he know and we'll be waiting.

Q.  What do you expect going forward?

COACH BURNS: Another game.  (Laughs).  Like I say, these are two good teams.  These momentum swings happen in this series.  We expected that.  If you would have asked me if I expected to be up 3-1 I probably would have said no.  It's that type of series now.  We have to go back.  We certainly don't want to come back here and we'll, see what will happen in New Jersey.

Q.  This morning when you were asked about Jason Spezza -- you hadn't seen hem play.  Now obviously he played well tonight.  What does he bring?

COACH BURNS: How many shifts did he have?  You are asking me to evaluate a player -- how many shifts, 10?  I didn't notice him that much.  I am not sitting there, I am not on a scout.  I am coaching.  I have to prepare my lines.  I got to get guys out there.  Got to see who is coming.  I imagine what I hear of him that junior players when they come out of junior, NHL coaches don't have time to watch junior games.  I have no idea.  The games we played against him this year he wasn't there.  It would be very unfair for me to evaluate a Jason Spezza; very unfair to him.  To me and to him.  I imagine he's going to be a great player, good for him.  Good for Ottawa.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT