NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: DEVILS v SENATORS
May 13, 2003
Pat Burns
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.   Did the penalty killing win that game?

COACH BURNS: That and other things.  I don't think just the penalty killing.  I thought first four penalties we got there was a couple that were deserved for sure.  But our penalty killing has been good all year long so I don't think it has changed there.  I thought that we had a lot of energy.  We had good legs.  We were rested.  I thought all those things really fell into place.


Q.   Is it coincidence that every time you guys scored in the Playoffs you have won every time they have scored in the  --

COACH BURNS: I don't know if that's  -- I don't know if that's a stat you can really go with and say that that makes the difference in a game.  You can score one goal, they can come back and pound two on you then it doesn't mean anything anymore.  I won't worry about that.  I think we look at the overall game.  I think our start was better.  Even though we were killing penalties I thought our start was much better.


Q.   It looked like you guys came up very fired up.  Were you maybe in some ways tired of hearing questions from us or reading about stuff of how good and creative the Ottawa Senators were?

COACH BURNS: They are still good and creative. Nobody is changing our thinking on that.  They are a good hockey club, but so are we.  We are a team that deserves to be where we are today because we worked at it all year long.  We didn't come in here through luck like everybody said.  We had to battle our way through during the regular season like everybody else.  And we will to battle our way through two rounds of the Playoffs.  Nobody gave us much credit for the regular season or the Playoffs.  I think now it's a situation where  -- they are an excellent club.  We reacted to something and I am sure they will react to something.  That's normal.


Q.   Do you gain confidence from the 6 and 0 at home or is it meaningless?

COACH BURNS: Meaningless.  Meaningless.  I don't think that you can say that.  That could change  -- this is the Playoffs; this is different.  Again just like -- I just stated we reacted to a bad first period the other night and came back and almost pulled through.  Tonight we -- you know, it was different.  Now, I know with the talent and skill level and the fundamental hockey club they have they are going to react.  These are two good well-structured hockey clubs.  You are going to have some back and forth.  We said this could be a long series and it could be.


Q.   Brodeur has done it so many times.  Maybe you tend to take it for granted.  First 11 minutes of the second period and especially the save on Hossa on the 2-on-1; after the goal he took control?

COACH BURNS: That's why he should be the MVP in the League and that's why there's no question in my mind that he should be the Vezna winner because he has done it all year long.


Q.   How big was the Madden goal there at the end of the second?

COACH BURNS: Huge goal.  2-1 game like that and the end of the second you score one that kind of hurts them a little bit.


Q.   You got the penalty for too many men on the ice; were you upset because they had too many men on the ice too?

COACH BURNS: They had 7 instead of 5.  I don't mind if they call it.  But sometimes you get upset just to get a point across.


Q.   How big is it if Redden is in fact hurt?

COACH BURNS: I don't know.  You will have to ask Jacques that.  I don't know if I am in position to answer that. 


Q.   Pat, how did you like the changes you made on defense, especially with Albelin getting that goal?

COACH BURNS: I liked it.  I think it was a decision that we talked about and had to make.  I think that you know, it's a situation where you know, we felt we had to do that one.  We felt that we would give a little bit more.  I don't think they  -- they didn't  -- Albelin scored a big goal but I don't think it was the decision of the game or the decision of the century.  It wasn't something that really made that much difference.  Big four defensemen played most of the ice time, but I don't think they made any plays or got us in trouble.  I don't think Smehlik or Albelin did anything.  Got to give credit to Richard.  He hasn't played in a while.  Played in over a month.  He came in, we told him to keep it simple.  That's what he did.  He gives us size back there.  Around the net he's a big strong guy he knows a lot of those Czechoslovakian players over there. He knows how they play.  I thought that to would be a little bit of an advantage for us.  I think the decision Lou made of us going back home was a good decision.  We were rested.  You could tell he had energy.


Q.   Defensemen scores the first goal, sets up the second and third.  Do you think they want to almost prove  --

COACH BURNS: Nobody wants to get pulled from a lineup.  Nobody wants to get scratched.  I think that's all part of it.  It's not being punished.  I don't think we are punishing these guys.  I think it is a question of we feel that making a change at one point in time is sometimes a breath of fresh air.  It's something that the guys go, whoa, let's go here and it picks up a team.  But I won't call it a punishing stretch.  We are not blaming anything on those two individuals in the last game.  There was a situation where they maybe gave a couple of -- gave have away too many but I am sure they watched the game tonight and we told them to watch it tonight.  You should look at it because more than likely you will probably get back in there along the way somewhere. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT