NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: DEVILS v SENATORS
May 10, 2003
Pat Burns
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  You had a tough start.  Were you expecting it?  After that your players played a great second period.  Can you make a comment?
 
COACH BURNS: They came out hungry.  We expected a little bit of that, fans got into it, but I wasn't nervous.  I wasn't  -- I kept on reassuring the team to just relax, they are having fun right now and we will figure it out and we did.  We started coming back into it and I thought we dominated probably one point in the second half then they came back a little bit stronger but I thought it was a good game, we were going back and forth.  Usually overtimes end in the first four minutes, so, that's what happened. 
 
Q.  For two teams that have excelled in goals against as these two teams have there was a lot of chances some odd man rushes, were you surprised at the level of offense that you saw tonight?
 
COACH BURNS: No.  I thought like I just said in French, everybody expected a boaring game.  I don't think it was that boring, both goaltenders were good, both chances were good, both team have an equal amount of chances along the way.  They came out strong, we bounced back, I thought it was a pretty good game.  I am not surprised.  The chances that were given only were rushed chances mostly too, and that's the kind of way we figured the games were going to go. 
 
Q.  Niedermayer took a wicked shot.  Are you concerned is he okay?
 
COACH BURNS: I haven't talked to him yet.  I don't really know.  I know that we missed him.  We were a little concerned.  He was a little woozy when he was coming off the ice, we'll have to see.  It's a day-to-day situation there. 
 
Q.  This was a series that was built as a team with a lot of Playoff experience and a team with very little Playoff experience especially at this level.  What did you see from your team and how it came back and what did you see in the Senators in how they came back?
 
COACH BURNS: Well, I think in overtime you have to understand one thing, it can go either way.  I don't think they dominated in overtime.  I don't think anybody dominated.  We didn't and they didn't.  It's a one-shot deal in overtime.  That's what it came down to.  I don't think that experience or talent had nothing to do with that one.  It was just a question  -- it's not the big offensive players who got the play done.  And  -- but I think our experience showed probably, I'd have to say in the second half of the game where we didn't get excited, everybody stayed calm and we talked about it after the first period and we came back with the way things  -- we knew, I knew it was going to be tough in the first ten minutes of the game.  I knew that.  Fans were pumped up here.  Everybody is excited and we expected that. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT