NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: MIGHTY DUCKS v DEVILS
June 5, 2003
Pat Burns
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Pat, I guess you wouldn't call that a textbook victory.
 
COACH BURNS: It wouldn't go down in history as one of the best defensive games by both sides.  We found a way to win.  That's what you have to do, you've got to find a way.  The guys stuck to what they had to do early.  Both teams were shaky a little bit early.  We got back to what we had to do in the second half of the game, and I thought we dominated more in the second half. 
 
Q.  I guess you guys know the rule of the kicked goal about as well as any team can know it.
 
COACH BURNS: We have been through it a couple times.  I think Bill McCreary has to make the call that the goal was no good.  We all felt confident that it was going to be called a goal.  He calls it no goal and waits to make sure.  So, it's probably a good decision on his part. 
 
Q.  Coach, with Stevenson back in the lineup tonight, what did you think of his effort?  Did he help set the tempo physically below the dots?
 
COACH BURNS: In their end, he does.  He likes to get in there.  He's been a guy who's really helped us over the course of the year with that.  He has that inspiration and certain aggravation with him to get in there and finish the hits.  Then when he's out there, he'll go and finish his hits.  He gets the puck, he's big and strong and protects it well too.  He did all the work on Brylin's goal.  He definitely gives us another dimension to our time. 
 
Q.  Talk about nine goals in one game.
 
COACH BURNS: I think I just said it's not going to go down in the history books as one of the best defensive games.  People want to see goals, there you go.  There was some fun ones on both sides. 
 
Q.  Was there a night of determination for your team?
 
COACH BURNS: I think so.  I think I felt good before the game when we had our meetings and when we talked to the guys before the game.  I think everybody felt good about themselves.  I think we came out  -- I don't know if it was a question of nerves or whatnot or knowing this was a huge game for us.  We knew we had to win.  We had to go out there and do it.  I really felt that the team rallied around each other.  You could tell they were pushing each other.  They were really pushing and pushing each other.  I could feel it on the bench. 
 
Q.  Pat, do you continue to be impressed by Langenbrunner?  I mean 11 goals now in the playoffs?
 
COACH BURNS: Jamie's like that.  He's a guy we forget for a couple of games.  I see things from him, but on the score sheet we don't see things.  All of a sudden he'll catch on fire and get a couple breaks and put them away.  He's been our  -- a lot of times in these playoffs our go-to offensive guy. 
 
Q.  Pat, the bounces have gone against you guys in the past couple games.  Was it nice to see two go your way?
 
COACH BURNS: I think the Pandolfo wasn't a bounce.  It was a hard-working goal.  He went to the net.  He happened to be there.  The other one, you're going to get those.  They didn't give us back that one that Ozolinsh scored.  We're not going to give that one back.  We'll take it. 
 
Q.  Pat, how important was that first goal by Pascal Rheaume?
 
COACH BURNS: It was very important.  There you go again, whoever scores the first goal is going to win the game.  Let's wash that one out.  It doesn't make a difference.  I told the players that they got a lucky bounce and we came back right away.  That's what probably settled everybody down at that point.  Again, there goes the hypothesis of scoring the first goal. 
 
Q.  How about the hypothesis of 11 and 1 at home?  Has it made that big of a difference to be here?
 
COACH BURNS: I find it surprising, but our fans have been so supportive of us here.  I think that they say their fans are as loud down there.  I think ours are pretty loud too.  I think that confidence builds in you, and I think the guys are confident with that, that they know they're going to come out and have a good performance.  We knew that the pressure was on us tonight.  We definitely knew that.  I think we put a little bit of pressure on them. 
 
Q.  Pat, 12 goals in this building.  Two goals out there.  Is there any way to explain that?
 
COACH BURNS: It's called home and away.  It could be last changes, other things, it all comes down to that.  Teams are a little more comfortable at home.  It would be easier to say why we're not scoring down there.  They're also doing a good job on us over there. 
 
Q.  How do you think Madden got a cut on his face in the first place?
 
COACH BURNS: It looked like a stick, but it was a skate.  He came back and fought hard.  That's just the kind of working person he is. 
 
Q.  Pat, Marshall, does he have a lot of the same qualities that you were talking about Stevenson, somebody real valuable at this time of year?
 
COACH BURNS: Yeah, he is.  He looks them in the eye and causes a little bit of havoc.  We all know he's not afraid of too much. 
 
Q.  Pat, you have had more success against Giguere than any other team in the playoffs.  Was that a game plan?  Did you feel you could have this kind of success going into the series?
 
COACH BURNS: Well, I think it's part of the game plan.  He was the topic of conversation before the series started.  We did a lot of work on certain things that we have to do to be able to beat him, and the guys have done that.  Jiggy's made the big saves at the proper time.  When we make him work, it's fine.  When we don't make him work, like in the last game, he looks great.  We have to make him work.  I thought tonight we made him work a lot more.  Not just on shots, but making him move.  That's what we have to do.   
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT