NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: MIGHTY DUCKS v DEVILS
June 4, 2003
Pat Burns
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Pat, can you give us an update on Nieuwendyk's condition and Stevenson and your expectations if they play and, if not, who replaces them?
 
COACH BURNS: Who is going to replace them, I don't know.  We don't know who's going to play and who's not going to play.  I would say that Nieuwendyk is definitely very, very doubtful for tomorrow.  Turner, it's all going to see how he feels tomorrow morning.  
 
Q.  A couple of questions, Pat.  With Nieuwendyk he tried, but did he regress or couldn't do it?
 
COACH BURNS: This is the thought process we had the whole time.  We would let him try it this morning, and as you all saw, he wasn't at the top of it. 
 
Q.  Did he try to skate also this morning on his own?
 
COACH BURNS:  Only this time. 
 
Q.  As far as Brodeur and Rafalski?
 
COACH BURNS: Oh, that's just rest.  Marty would rather have some shots tomorrow morning, and Brian too. 
 
Q.  Can you describe the mood of the team right now?
 
COACH BURNS: Good, good.  We've got a good mood going.  Everybody is excited and happy to be back home and ready to go home.  I think the mood is very good. 
 
Q.  Pat, talk about the swing games you won 3-5.  Obviously, this is about as big a swing game as you can get in any series.  Do you approach it any different?  Do you tell the guys anything different or rely on what you've been going through all year?
 
COACH BURNS: Everybody knows the  -- we thought we would steal one down there like they thought they would steal one here on us.  Two out of three with home ice advantage, we have to feel good about it.  Game 5 is a big game.  We know that.  It's a big game for them.  You don't say a whole bunch of things different.  We thought maybe Nieuwendyk would be able to play, and he can't.  We have to get that out of our minds and see how we're going to realign that.  We have to be more excited when we get the puck, like I said yesterday, and I think we'll be better. 
 
Q.  You had talked about something like desperation for the puck, getting to the puck.  Now, how do you  -- what do you expect to do tomorrow to get that?  That seems to be a key to winning or losing.  You didn't have it on the Coast the way you wanted it.
 
COACH BURNS: We have to have it here.  I think Games 1 and 2 they were chasing us.  Games 3 and 4 we were chasing them.  We have to make them chase us. 
 
Q.  Any reason?
 
COACH BURNS: If I knew those reasons, we obviously wouldn't be sitting here.  We probably would be celebrating now.  I wish we were, but we're not.  That's why they're called four out of sevens.  These guys just didn't stumble here.  They worked hard to get here.  It's now down to the series being tied and we're not that surprised either.  Tomorrow we just have to be ready and I think we will be.  I think our fans will definitely help us out like it helped them.   
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT