100TH WESTERN OPEN
July 4, 2003
Robert Allenby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Talk about the round.  Was it hot for you? 
ROBERT ALLENBY:  About the same.  The greens are receptive.  If you hit good tee shots you can give yourself plenty of chances to get it close out there. 
The putter has been hot and cold the last two days.  I wouldn't say it's the best way to finish the round, a three-putt at the last, but that's just the way I've been putting.  They're either going to go in or they're going to miss, and at the moment I'm missing more than I'm making.  I'm happy to be out there.  Still the end of the day, there's still a lot of guys to come in.

Q.  When you see somebody throw up a big number on the first day, does that seem to change your perspective when you go out and play or not?
ROBERT ALLENBY:  Not really.  I play the same every day and try to shoot as low as I can.  Yesterday I should have shot a really low score myself.  I finished poorly. 
You know, the course is playing pretty easy at the moment.  You know, there's a little bit of wind which makes it a little bit tricky, but the greens are receptive and the course is set up to be taken.

Q.  The conditions are changing.  Yesterday you guys had to go in for a while and go back out.  The same thing happened with the delay today.  It might rain again, it might not.  How does that play with your psyche when you're trying to prepare?
ROBERT ALLENBY:  You get used to it after a while.  It's just part of playing golf, you know.  It's sometimes hard to adjust.

Q.  What is it about this tournament that attracts an international field?  There's some Australians here and 30 international players.  Does it just happen to be because it's in-between Majors that it attracts that sort of field?
ROBERT ALLENBY:  I think you'll find the amount of Australians here are actually playing full-time on this Tour, and the guys I played with today, Luke Donald, he lives here in Chicago, he's been on the Tour, and Ian Leggatt, he's from Canada.  There's a lot of international players on this Tour.  That's why they're all here.  It's a great golf course to come and play at, but all the guys that you're talking about, they're all members of the Tour.

Q.  (Inaudible). 
ROBERT ALLENBY:  If I can get the putter going, yeah.  No one is going to be in the top ten every week.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT