WGC NEC INVITATIONAL
August 24, 2002
Robert Allenby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 GORDON SIMPSON:  Robert, well played today.  Did you play a few people into it, including your countryman, Craig Parry.
ROBERT ALLENBY:  Yeah, I guess I have.  I got out to a good start, birdies the first few holes, and then I just -- I hit not the greatest 2-iron off 4, but hit it down the right side, and it hit a tree down the right that's in the middle of the fairway.  And it kicked it straight right.  And it was just buried in some long rough.  And I just thought that I could get an 8-iron out of the rough, and advance it to down near the front edge of the green.  And I got it ten yards.  And then I drew another bad lie, because it hit the rake and buried underneath the rake in front of me.  And I could only advance that down 60, 70 yards down the fairway.  And then I was left with -- then with a pitch into the green with the flag tucked just on top of the tier, and the end result was a six.
But I hit a lot of good shots after that, just really couldn't convert the putts.  I kept leaving myself on the high sides and just always was left where I couldn't be aggressive with the putts.  So when you can't be aggressive with the putt you can't put a true stroke on it.  And that seemed to happen for quite a few holes in a row.  And then I just sort of got a couple back on the back nine, and it was a good way to finish at the last.  I hit a good tee shot and great 3-wood up to the middle of the green.  I thought the putt was actually going to go in until it bounced about six feet in the air. 

Q.  There's 12 guys within three shots of the lead, some very big names.  Could you talk about how it sets up for tomorrow, and what your mind set is going into the final round?
ROBERT ALLENBY:  I'll be going out there with the frame of mind that I know I have to play aggressive.  And I know I have to shoot at least 5-under, at least.  Obviously tomorrow is the last day and not everyone is going to shoot five- or six-under.  But that's the goal that I have to go out there with and at least try to shoot for five- or six-under. 
There's so many players, as you said, that are so close.  But as you've seen by some of the best players in the world, mistakes can happen quite easily out there.  And at the end of the day, it may not need a five- or six-under, you might only need a 3-under.  But this golf course is set up that way.  The greens are really becoming quite firm now.  And most of the real good scores are happening in the first early groups.  There wasn't too many out -- well, later in the last few groups, anyway. 
Obviously Craig Parry, he was somewhere in the middle there.  But the golf course is right in front of you.  You've just got to be careful where you hit it and especially on the greens.  The greens are very tricky.  And if you miss them in the wrong spots when they tuck them in those little corner pockets, you could have anything.

Q.  Did you leave yourself a lot of putts on the high side because you weren't striking the ball properly or because the greens firmed up more than you may have realized?
ROBERT ALLENBY:  They firmed up and they released a little bit more.  And that's why I kept leaving myself down hills all the time or huge uphill right-to-left and hit it up to the top of the slope and just let it dribble down.  It's a guessing game sometimes when it's like that.  It makes it tough, because you can't be aggressive and you can't give it a run.  And you've got to be so careful that you don't run it ten feet past.
But I'll look at it today, tonight and just think about some of the things that I'll need to do tomorrow and I'll work on that. 

Q.  You've come through in these situations before, in playoffs.  Do you feel that will help you at all tomorrow?  How much of an advantage, if at all an advantage, is it to be in the last group?
ROBERT ALLENBY:  I think it's a huge advantage to be in the last group.  If you're running one behind or level playing the last, and they've already finished the last, that makes a huge advantage, especially when you've got a par-5 to finish.  It makes it a little different than in '98 when you've got a par-4 to finish with.  It's one of those holes if you hit a good tee shot, eagle is accessible. 
So tomorrow is another new day, and I know what I've got to do tomorrow.  I've just got to enjoy it, have fun.

Q.  Can you talk about Craig Parry, what kind of guy he is, and also about his game?
ROBERT ALLENBY:  Paza?  I better be careful here.  It amazes me that he's never won on this Tour.  He came so close to winning The Masters quite a few years ago when Fred Couples won.  And I thought then that he was going to go on and really do some huge things over here.  But you just never know in this game.  You just never know what's going to happen.  And he might go out there tomorrow and shoot lights out and win by four or five.  That's the type of player he is.  He's either going to play really well or really steady.  He's a very steady player and he just plugs away, and he's Mr. Consistency.  He's like Fred Funk, straight down the middle and a really good putter, great short game, great imagination, and just -- he's a little fighter, little as in short (laughter.)

Q.  He mentioned that earlier.   Do you have any stories?
ROBERT ALLENBY:  I've got stories, but I can't tell you.

Q.  What did you hit on 18?  And secondly, do you feel you got the score that you deserved today?
ROBERT ALLENBY:  No, definitely not.  I should have been three better, quite easily, quite easily.  I made three good putts today that bounced at least an inch to two inches in the air, and three of them were on the last four holes.

Q.  (Inaudible.)
ROBERT ALLENBY:  I tried to cut a 3-wood into the middle of the green, just a nice, high cut, and hit it perfect, couldn't hit it any better.

Q.  When you talk about the way you hit the ball and didn't get much out of it, sure leaves you frustrated now, but does it leave you in a good frame of mind for tomorrow?
ROBERT ALLENBY:  Yeah, coming down the stretch there, apart from 16, I just hit the wrong club off the tee and didn't commit to the club I had, tried to hit too easy with a 2-iron, and I should have hit a 3.  But 7, 8 -- all those last five or six holes, I hit a lot of good shots, and I hadn't really done that -- I'd hit some good shots, but not as close as what I'd been hitting the last six holes. 
The back nine I did hit it pretty good, but didn't get a lot out of it.  So to finish the way I finished, making birdie at the last, it was a good way to finish.  And especially to get myself back to ten.  To shoot 1-over today would have been a huge disappointment.  But at the same time, I'm still up there, and have a great chance for tomorrow.  I know I have to go out tomorrow and shoot a pretty good number.  I know I've got it in me.  I shot 8-under yesterday.  There's no reason why there's not a few more birdies in me.

Q.  Just to clarify, you said 5-under or thereabouts, you may not need that, but that's got to be the goal.  Is that because of all the people bunched up together?
ROBERT ALLENBY:  You've got a guy like Tiger Woods sitting right up behind you, and I think Mickelson is there, Ernie is there, so you've got like the top three or four players in the world right on your heels.  So you know that one of them is going to have a good day.  And I think I can put a pretty good bet on one player (laughter.) But that's good, you know, that's what it's all about.
These tournaments are great as far as you have the best 70 players in the world and for someone like myself that's in the mid 30s in the world, I want to play against the best players, and I want to try to beat the best players.  So I've put myself in a good chance for tomorrow to try and do that, and maybe try to prove myself a little bit more.  But if it doesn't happen, it doesn't happen.  That's golf.  Whatever happens tomorrow, so be it, good or bad.

Q.  How far did they make you move your ball on 13?
ROBERT ALLENBY:  It was only a few inches, the wrong way.  It should have been closer.

Q.  It seemed it was more sideways?
ROBERT ALLENBY:  Retief hit the ball.  His ball bounced on top, or whatever it did.  I couldn't see from the tee.  And the spectators -- we had about a hundred spectators saying it was over there, and the other half saying it was over there.  So we got the rules official in and they --

Q.  Took a vote?
ROBERT ALLENBY:  We took a vote and split the difference. 

Q.  What exactly happened?
ROBERT ALLENBY:  I hit my ball to about eight feet.  And Retief hit his shot in and it landed on the green, and I think maybe it -- maybe second or third bounce hit on top of my ball and moved it, only a few inches.  So we just put it back, as close as you could possibly put it back. 

Q.  Is there any significance to the Paza nickname for Craig?   Is that it, P-a-z?
ROBERT ALLENBY:  P-a-z-a, Paza.

Q.  Any significance to it?
ROBERT ALLENBY:  Craig Parry, Paza. 





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT