GENUITY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 28, 2001
Robert Allenby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: You want me to start with this course? 
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Course is playing pretty good. It's in good shape. And it is definitely
a lot hotter here. Is that all you want me to tell you about the -- course is in good
shape. Fairways are great. Greens are good. Obviously different, a different type of
texture from last week's greens and fairways, but it's in good shape.  
 
Q. Your thoughts as the West Coast Swing kind of segues into Florida, do you think it
is going to be as wild and freaky as it was in some of those spots there were 6-man
playoffs and weird weather and players being run over by fans and nine different winners
in nine different weeks? Kind of wide open?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: I can't see why it is going to be different. Maybe the difference is,
it is not going to rain as much. The water that we are going to have on us is going to be
sweat instead of rain. Yeah, I mean, who knows. Every week is a new week; you just never
know what is going to happen. So... 
 
Q. Last year it seemed like we did, seemed like one guy won almost every week during
that swing. This year --?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Through the West Coast?  
 
Q. Yeah.
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Well, I mean, he is human, isn't he?  
 
Q. Masters question: A couple of years before you got invited you were really close to
qualifying as an international invitee and you didn't. Do you feel like -- were you upset
about that; and, how do you feel about the course now that you are in there every year?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: No, I wasn't upset about it, at all. You either get to play or not, it
is as simple as that. When you play in Europe, obviously they have changed the criteria
now of getting in, top 50 in the world and -- but back then, five years ago or so ago, the
rules were different. If you were an on this Tour, if you are a tournament winner, you got
straight into the tournament. As a European player playing in Europe you just -- you knew
what the situation was. You either won on the U.S. tour or you try and finish in the top
three or four on the Order of Merit. That is what I did in '96, so I got into 1997. But I
think it made it a lot fairer now. It never used to have the best field in a major, but
now it is definitely up there. 
 
Q. How about the course and the way it sets up for you?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: I think it sets up pretty well. I can move it right-to-left and
left-to-right. I think it is a course that you need to hit it both ways. Everyone says
that you need to hit it -- the guy that is going to win is going to hit from it
right-to-left the whole time. I mean, Jack Nicklaus fades the ball, but he also knows how
to draw the ball; that is probably why he has won there so many times and done so well
over the years. I think it sets up pretty good for my game. I think it is a course that
you need to be -- need to have your iron-play on and you need to be a good putter. So I
think if my putting is good on that week, then it can set up pretty well for me. 
 
Q. What are you going to play after that?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: I won't be playing the week before. After this week I am going to play
Bay Hill and TPC. So I have next week off, Bay Hill, TPC, then a week off before The
Masters. Then I will play three in a row, from The Masters through to Houston. 
 
Q. There has been some talk about moving TPC to May. Would you like to see that or is
it -- do you like having TPC, I mean, two fairly significant tournaments somewhat
back-to-back like that?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: It would be good if they can -- first of all, I think it would be good
if they can move the West Coast Swing to May.  
 
Q. Seriously. It rained in May, too. Just meant to have rain. That is just the way it
is?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Whole West Coast?  
 
Q. Not Palm Springs.
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Moving the TPC to May, that was the question. Yeah, that is fine. I
don't have any problem with it. Probably good time of the year to play. Obviously the time
that we play there, in like four week's time or whatever it is, few week's time, that is
as good a time, as well. So I think Florida you can play at any time. That is the beauty
of Florida, you could play two months ago and you could play four months from now. 
 
Q. How do you regard the TPC?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: I think it is a very good golf course; it is very challenging. 
 
Q. Is that a tournament that you really want to win?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Yeah, absolutely. 
 
Q. Does it have that prestige level?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Yeah, I think so, yeah. I think it's a tournament that, you know, if
there was going to be 5 majors, that would be it. That would be the fifth. I think
probably -- well, I know it probably has the strongest field out of all tournaments
worldwide. You have got nearly pretty close to the top hundred in the world playing in
that tournament. I think that is why the PGA is so strong. 
 
Q. No club pros at TPC?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: That is right; so it has to be a strong tournament. 
 
Q. But when you get there do you not have one eye kind of on Augusta or in the back of
your mind in Augusta?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: I play every week one week at a time.  
 
Q. Even with the Major right there?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Even with a Major right there. I am taking the week off prior to The
Masters just to work on my game and you know try and get myself feeling pretty good and
confident for it. But I think it is just important that every week that I go into, I treat
it exactly the same and be physically and mentally prepared for every tournament. I think
physically is the key because if you feel good then mentally you are good, you can think a
lot better and you can go in there with a good, positive mind. So I think it's, you know,
as long as I rest up, I am going to play some good golf.  
 
Q. I am sure you were asked a variation on this question on Sunday, but when you get
into a playoff I guess it is 7 and 0 now with all of your stops (sic) that you have
collected worldwide, do you just think "good" to the point now where it is my
advantage?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: No, I don't think like that, at all. I just see it as I got lucky again
and I will just keep moving on. There will come a time you know -- prior to going --
teeing off in the six-man playoff, I went -- took myself off to the loo and had a look and
sorry went to the toilet and -- I was just relieving myself and I was just thinking about
what was going to come up, what was going to happen.  
 
Q. And your thoughts were....
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: I was just thinking about what was going to happen. The shot that I
needed to hit off the tee and then I was also thinking about, okay, this is another
playoff and I just said to myself I am either going to win or I am going to come second.
And I said, well, I have won 6 out of 6 and I just thought, well, just go for it and just
do exactly what I have done in all the rest of them, which is, go for it, and just play
very aggressive and just don't think about anything else; and that is what I did. I went
out there and I hit a great tee shot and I knew that I had to hit the fairway. If you miss
the fairway on 18 there is no way you can get on the green in two, without -- just no
chance. I didn't want to hit it too far left because it doesn't go as far up the left
side. It kills it because it is, with the big slope, it is wet and raining, so I just -- I
pretty much hit it exactly where I wanted to hit it. I got myself a perfect look at the
green and I had about a 2-iron yardage, but I thought it is wet, it is cold, I will go
with a 3-wood and just ease off it a little bit and hit the exact shot that I picked out
to hit, I hit it absolutely perfect. I landed it exactly where I wanted to land it. Sort
of halfway up and just, you know, just sort of released down. 
 
Q. Sounds like "lucky" to me.
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Yeah, well, I guess you need a bit of luck. You need a lot of luck in
these -- in those circumstances and I guess, you know, 7 out of 7, you got to have some
luck on your side. There is a lot of guys that have been in playoffs that haven't won. 
 
Q. Like Sluman.
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Yeah.  
 
Q. If we were to go to the general public and say, name the three guys that have won
three PGA tournaments in the last three months, they would name Tiger, probably would name
Mickelson. Probably won't mention Allenby. Would you --?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: You have to go and ask them, wouldn't you? You will have to go do a
survey. I really don't care. I just play golf because I love it and I just try and do what
I do the best that I can and, you know, I really -- I am an individual. I am Robert
Allenby and I don't try to be anyone else. Whether I win or lose then that is not a
problem. But you know, I think if I keep doing what I am doing I think they will get to
know who Robert Allenby is, who he is pretty quickly.  
 
Q. Did you go to -- I am going to get the name wrong -- the Victoria ---?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Institute of Sport. Yes, I did. 
 
Q. Do you think people think of Americans as having the best golfers more than
anything? How soon do you think that might change because of the quality of players that
are coming out through that program even if -- look at Sweden, they have got a terrific
program there...
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: In the program there is only 11 guys there, that is it. It's not as if
it's got hundreds of kids in it. There is only 11 a year. 
 
Q. For all sports or just golf?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: For golf. They might have 6 or 10 guys and maybe somewhere between. I
think they have about 10 guys. That is it. 
 
Q. Qualify or --?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: They pick who they think has great ability as a youngster.  
 
Q. So you are selected?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Pretty much just selected. You can't say, oh, I am going there; it just
doesn't happen like that. 
 
Q. Can't pay tuition, buy your way in?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: No. 
 
Q. Other programs like that in the country?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Australian Institute of Sport. They take them in a lot younger. They
house them, as well. That is based in Victoria, in Melbourne, where the Victoria Institute
of Sport is. They have nothing to do with each other. They have great coaches and they
have great coaching facilities and I always -- I was very fortunate because, at the age of
14 my coach, Steve Bann, he was my coach then, back at the golf club that I used to be at,
and from there, the time I got about 16, 17, he became the head coach. He was recognized
as probably the best coach in Australia and he got the head position for the Institute. So
for the Victoria Institute of Sport -- some then from there, I was getting even more
tuition from him. They just, pretty much they just pick -- they don't just pick who they
want, they pick kids that they feel that have the ability to go on and they just -- the
Victoria Institute of Sport can help them with their education, golf game, their media
skills, just everything, everything that we need to deal with, our travel arrangements, so
that then, when we do turn pro we know what to expect. I once went to the British Open,
Victoria Institute of Sport paid for all that, paid for me to go to the British Open to
qualify. It ended up I qualified, went through three qualifying sections and got through
and missed the cut by a shot. Then played two tournaments and went to France for a week
and Holland for another week and played the French Amateur and the Dutch and just played
all these tournaments in the space of about six weeks, then went home to Australia and
that was the greatest experience of all time. When I turned pro I was ready to travel.
Ready to --. 
 
Q. You weren't overwhelmed by it?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Yeah, I knew what to expect. They send kids away, they make sure that
they book their own airfares, they book everything, arranged, everything. Ring up the
tournaments, ask them for the invites, the whole lot. Because, when you turn pro, you have
to do it yourself.  
 
Q. How much do you know of Aaron and Adam Scott?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: I know more of Aaron than Adam Scott, but I mean, both of them have a
lot of talent, a lot of talent. Aaron, he is a great player. He has a great swing. He is a
pretty awesome putter. He has an all around good game. He is very confident, very
confident kid. I think Adam Scott is exactly the same, but they show it in two different
ways. Adam is very quiet, keeps to himself, and just goes about his business and he has
broken through and I think he has got a great golf swing and there is a lot of talent
there between the two of them. I think they can do some good things. 
 
Q. Aaron is a little more outspoken?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Yeah. Obviously you know, he is a little bit more outspoken than Adam,
but you know, they are both individuals, completely different.  
 
Q. This past year was as good a stretch of golf as you have played?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: I didn't play that well the first four, five tournaments; only last
week I played well. 
 
Q. I guess going back to your three wins between Houston, and now.
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Yeah, I think so. I went back to Australia after the States and I
played two tournaments back there before Christmas, Australia Open and PGA and the second
at the Aussie Open to Aaron and then won the week after, at PGA. Then I had a couple weeks
off and then played the Match Play and then came over here. But you know, I have had
around the world, I have had four wins in the last, whatever it is, 14 months or so. Well,
it is not even that. But obviously I am playing some pretty good golf in between there.
But I'd like to play a bit more consistent. That is what I am working on at the moment is
each week I turn up, I want to finish at least Top-10 as my bad results. That is what I am
working on. That is what I have got to work on. So just I want to become a more consistent
player. 
 
Q. As you said you weren't playing very well first few weeks. What turned it around?
The 3-wood?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Yeah the 3-wood and good putt (laughs) I am not sure. I just went about
my business exactly the same. I felt like I wasn't swinging the club too well the first
couple of days last week. But I was making some putts. But I just didn't make too many
mistakes. If I missed the green I got up-and-down, stuff like that. So my short game is
pretty good and then I started hitting it better and better as the weeks sort of went on.
I kept ringing my coach in Australia and every night I gave him a call and (inaudible)
Sunday night. Anyway -- I said I will just keep doing what I am doing - that was the
message I left on his phone and hung up. 
 
Q. Had he been watching on TV?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: I think he was. He would have been watching, yeah.  
 
Q. Because in Hawaii basically you said you didn't know where the ball was going?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: That is exactly right. 
 
Q. There was no thing you found that turned it around; just gradual improvement?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: I just kept working on the same things that we had been working on you
know, leading up from the start of the year and for the first few tournaments I just kept
working on it and just you know, I think it -- the more pressure I put my self under on
Sunday the better I swung it. Which is always a good thing.  
 
Q. You were already excited about The Masters. Are you even more excited now?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Yeah, sure. I am excited about all tournaments now. But I just hope
that by the time The Masters comes I am still playing the same way and feeling the same
way. I can't see why not. I mean, it is all there. Just got it go out and produce it.  
 
Q. If you were a bookmaker setting the odds what would you put yourself at?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: About a thousand to one.  
 
Q. Then you'd bet on yourself too, wouldn't you?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Yeah.  
 
Q. If you weren't allowed to bet...
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: You said if I was the bookmaker. 
 
Q. If you were not able to bet what do you think it should be?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: I don't know. I got no idea. Same as the rest of the field. Apart from
maybe one other guy.  
 
Q. You think that is the way to look at it, there is Tiger then a bunch of other guys?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: You have got to think that. You have always got to think in the back of
your mind that Tiger is going to play well. He plays well in -- he has played well in all
the majors so far. He doesn't -- this -- obviously the first few tournaments he has played
he has finished a little bit back, but you know, you can never ever count him out. He is
one extraordinary player and has a lot of talent and I think he has -- he is so mentally
tough that you know, he can just -- he can play crap for the next few weeks and then The
Masters comes and he is likely to just come out and win it. Everyone says, oh, he has
turned his slump around. So I don't understand why they call it a slump, but just because
he doesn't win, that is not a slump. But you know, he is a player he is always a danger,
so such a great player. He is always the one -- he is world No. 1. He will be for a number
of years.  
 
Q. Where (inaudible) do you think the win at Augusta should count as Grand Slam even if
it's not in the same year?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: It shouldn't count. Grand Slam is four majors in one year. That is how
I think everyone -- that is how we all determine it. Grand Slam is done in one year.  
 
Q. A lot of great Australia players have taken a shot at Augusta. Do you feel like--
what would that do if you were in the first one and how big is the Masters in Australia?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Well, that is one thing that definitely in the back of my mind has been
for a long time is I want to be the first Australian to win the U.S. masters. So you know,
obviously Norman has had a few chances and it hasn't happened. So it is still there up for
grabs. It just make me even more determined. Because to be the first one would definitely
mean a lot.  
 
Q. What do you do for physical conditioning if anything?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: I do a lot of training, all sorts of training. A lot of cross training
and just -- I mean, look at me I am a whippet.  
 
Q. You could be lean muscled, there is different --?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: I have about 6 beers a night.  
 
Q. Keep the weight on.
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: (Laughs) I have a trainer. Stuart Appleby, Geoff Ogilvy, Stephen Allan,
Craig Spence and myself we have all -- we are all chipping in and we have hired a trainer
to train us all and used to be the head trainer at the Victoria Institute of Sport. 
 
Q. Is he over here?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Yeah. 
 
Q. He is travelling then?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Quit his job in Australia and he is full-time with us. So we have a
trainer every week now.  
 
Q. You leave the trailer over here go to health clubs over town?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Most of the hotels we stay at have a gym. If not, then obviously there
is the trailer, but we respect the -- you have to respect -- have the respect for the
other players because then also bringing a different trainer in to the trainers that we
already have on the Tour, so we just stay aside and we go elsewhere. But if you are going
to do it properly, you have got to do it this way. It is the best investment, I believe. I
haven't had a problem with my body this year apart from an ankle injury that I had the
first few tournaments but that was from orthotics. But last year I kept getting few little
niggles in the back and lower back which is very, very common for a golfer. I haven't had
anything this year. I feel every week I feel pretty strong and I believe that better you
are physically, the stronger mentally you are. So the 5 of us, we have put in... 
 
Q. Kind of have to, I guess, don't you, seems like everybody is doing it?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: I have been -- obviously I have been using Vern since 1990, so I have
been doing a very similar program, but the stuff that we do now is so much better and so
far advanced and so much better for your body better for the golf swing. 
 
Q. (Inaudible)
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: I am working out six to seven days a week. Stretching twice a day seven
days a week. So if you are doing all of that, running, bike, weights. 
 
Q. Carry your own bag out there if you have to?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: No way.  
 
Q. Who was that on the bag last week?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Craig Spence's caddie, Cameron. 
 
Q. What is his last name?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Ferguson. Yeah, just had him for last week and this week as well. Yeah,
it was good. Good change. 
 
Q. Is he..
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Caddying for Craig Spence next week. That is his full-time caddie.  
 
Q. So you just are intending to use him for these two weeks?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Just for last week and this week. I had an American guy for the week
prior in out in the desert in Palm Springs. 
 
Q. How many caddies have talked to you about a job in the last few days?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Well, last couple of weeks quite a few.  
 
Q. Dozens?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Yes.  
 
Q. Is that word mouth or these guys whipping out resumes, does a guy lobby for a job
doing what these guys do?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: I just know that my caddie is back in Australia. 
 
Q. (Inaudible)?
 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: I think I am smart enough to realize who is good and who is not. I
think the first instinct is whatever comes out of their mouth first and the way they act
and the way they behave and whatever that is -- that has got to determine whether I like
them from the start or not. Spending so much time out there you want to like who you have
got. I spend more time with them than my wife. So it is pretty important. Want to make
sure you get along with someone. 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT