THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 17, 2010
Robert Allenby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ROBERT ALLENBY: I hit two good putts and just walked away with 4, but not to worry. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Yeah, yesterday I hit bad putts, at least the third putt I hit yesterday was a bad one. But I hit a good first putt there and I hit a great second putt. If I hit it at the left lip, it had to go right, and then the hole is sitting sideways and the wind is blowing from the left, as well. So you would think -- I think if I hit another 12 putts, it would break, but for some reason that one didn't.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Just consistent, not really much sort of -- just a lot of par saves early. But never really gave myself a lot of opportunities for birdies. I probably only missed maybe two or three birdie -- really good chances out there. It wasn't that I didn't hit it bad, I just didn't hit it super, super close, and then if I did hit it within 15, 20 feet I had some doozy putts.

 Q. Is that frustrating or just --
 ROBERT ALLENBY: No, not really. It is what it is. I can only do my best, and if it's not whatever I want it to be, then stiff shit. I'm going out there and giving it my 100 per cent, so it's all you can do. Whether you're on this particular week or not, you know, who knows. But one more day, who knows. Hopefully I can go out there tomorrow and shoot 6-, 7-under, and you never know. You don't know what the leaders are going to do today. It's tricky. If they get a little nervy out there, they can start racking them up pretty quickly. 12-under could become 6-under pretty quickly.

 Q. Needless to say today's conditions were better?
 ROBERT ALLENBY: It's better than yesterday, but it's still tough out there. Some players will make some birdies, but they'll probably falter a little bit on the way in, as well, because there's some tricky holes coming in. It's one of those golf courses you've got to hold your nerve coming down that stretch. Those last four, five holes -- 17 is no easy hole. It's always been the hardest hole on the course, and it still is.

 Q. How did you play 17?
 ROBERT ALLENBY: I played it well, three pars. That's like 3-under. Just normally I play for the front right, and unless I have an opportunity like I did the first day to land it up on the green and stop it with a 6-iron. But it was soft greens. They're a little bit firmer now. Today I just punched an 8-iron to the front on the green and then just putted it up 40 feet to a couple of feet. There's certain ways of playing it, and I think so far I'm playing it pretty good. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 ROBERT ALLENBY: No, the most difficult part is probably hitting your golf ball in the right position. The greens are the easy part. It's getting to the green that's the hard part. I hit it in two bunkers today, the first two bunkers I've hit it in all week. Actually three bunkers today, but two of them were off the tee, which didn't help, and on one of them I made an unbelievable par save, and then the other one I made I bogey.
 I've done pretty good to stay out of those bunkers. Driving off the tee here is probably the most difficult thing about this whole golf course. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT