AT&T NATIONAL
July 2, 2010
Robert Allenby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Comments on the day, how it's playing. 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Yeah, I mean, the result was good. It was a bit up and down. Every time I made birdie, I made a bogey, but I just managed to somehow slip a couple more birdies in. Yeah, I'm happy with it. I'm happy. As I said to you yesterday, I hadn't practiced coming into here because I couldn't because of the wrist, so happy to be up on the leaderboard and have a chance on the weekend. 

 Q. Any problem getting out of the rough with the wrist?
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Not really. No, it's pretty good. I'm just taping it up just for stability, just so I feel like I have a bit more strength in it. Last thing I want to do is not have that taped up and go in the rough like I have today and tweak something, because it is a tendon, and it's right where they cross over, and it could flare up again pretty easily. I figure I might as well be on the safe side. It feels good.
 I was in the rough a lot today, a lot, off the tee. I didn't drive the ball well at all. My last three drives, four drives were okay, but prior to that I drove it terrible all day. I don't know why, but I didn't have the confidence with the driver today. I have 100 percent confidence with my irons, so every time I was on the fairway I hit it close and I made birdie. But I'll try and iron it out this afternoon with the driver, but otherwise I'm super happy with the way I'm playing.

 Q. So if you hit a few more fairways on the weekend you have a fair chance of hanging around?
 ROBERT ALLENBY: I think so. If I hit the fairways, yeah, I'll be around come Sunday. The rest of my game is really good, so it doesn't matter if -- you have to hit fairways here. That's why the scoring is not 9- or 10-under. If you don't hit the fairways here, you won't -- it's going to make it very hard to get onto the green, and you're struggling to make pars out of the rough. 
 That's what happened to me today on a number of occasions. As I said, when I hit the fairway, I hit a lot of good iron shots and hit them close and made a lot of putts.

 Q. The fairways look like they're really nice --
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Yeah, you have to shape it on a lot of these holes. You've got to shape it. But some fairways slope from right to left and you've got to hit a cut into those fairways to keep it on the fairways, and then the reverse, the other way, high on the left side and low on the right, you've got to draw it into those fairways. I'm not drawing it quite well enough to be able to do that yet. Hopefully on the weekend, maybe.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT