THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 9, 2010
Robert Allenby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Knocked it in on two and thought that's the way I want to go today?
 ROBERT ALLENBY: It's a nice way to bounce back after the first. You know, I think it definitely took a few holes to get used to these greens. I mean, they were as slick as any greens I've ever putted on in my life. You know, I mean it all showed on the first hole. 
 Like Lee Westwood's got a 12-footer for par, and knocks it six feet past and he only just tapped it. That kind of got the start, you know, the motions going for the round. Just thinking whoa, these greens are going to be slick today. Obviously, no water on the greens. They were so fast. 
 When you put your putter down and it slips away from you, you know that they're going to be quick. 
 But, look, you know, the eagle at 2 was great. It was good momentum. You know, I hit a great shot into 4. I hit a lot of great shots, really, all day. 
 But, you know, I'm very happy with the way I played. I stuck in there all the way. I definitely didn't let my guns down. I really tried to just give myself as many opportunities as possible on that back nine. You know, it would have been great to make the eagle at 16 and the birdie at 17. It wasn't from the lack of trying. You know, there was plenty of effort in there, that's for sure. 
 I thought I made the birdie at 17. But, you know, not to be. That's the way it goes.

 Q. And that's what you want to do even though you see the scoreboard, you know what you need to do to give yourself a chance, right? 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Oh, absolutely. When someone posts a score, you know what you've got to do, and I wasn't going to back off for anything. And that's why I hit such a good shot into 16 and 17. 
 18 was a bit difficult because I was in between clubs. I really wanted to hit the 5-iron and turn it over and get it running up to that left flag at the back there, but it just wasn't going to be enough club, you know. I would have come up short. 
 My only option, really, was to hold a 4-iron up against that wind and hope the wind would drift it back to the flag. But kind of just hung it out there a little bit. You know, you don't want to go left, you know. I just wanted to keep it right of the hole and give myself a chance.

 Q. You had a good run all week. I mean, you had a good run today and you certainly played well all week. Can you talk about that, please? 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Yeah, I played well every day. Every day I played great. Played very consistent. You know, it's so easy to look back and go, oh, yeah, I buggered that up, I buggered that up. But you know what? I'm super happy with the way I played. 
 And it was Tim's time, that's for sure. He's a great player and he deserves to win. He's a good friend of mine, and it's been a long time coming for him over here. You know, I'm just really happy for him.

 Q. You shoot 66, 67 on the weekend, you ought to win?
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Absolutely, you should. That's right. That's like Rory last week, shooting 10 under the final round, he deserves to win, too. Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT