MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2010
Robert Allenby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. (No microphone.)
 ROBERT ALLENBY: You get on the wrong side of stuff you can, it make it very tricky. And that's just what happened on the front nine a few times. Just hit a couple wrong clubs. Had the right clubs, but just didn't hit them hard enough. 
 Then of course that ended up causing a couple 3-putts because I was so far away from the flag. But I hung in there nicely, I came back, so I'm not out of it. 
 I'm putting good, I feel good. All in all it was just a few shots, I mishit a couple ordinary shots which are pretty simple shots for me and I just wasn't quite in sync on a couple holes. 
 But the back nine was good. I played a lot of good shots there. And I feel like tomorrow I'll come out and play better. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 ROBERT ALLENBY: The wind is super tricky. This is a hard enough course with just no wind. But today it was gusting and stuff. And then some holes, especially those holes down the back, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, I mean one minute it's here and next minute it's there and, you know, we're thinking, what are we going to play it at. 
 It's tricky. Obviously it's tough for everyone, but you got to get the right club in your hand at the right time and the back nine I hit a lot of good shots and I hit the right clubs and made a lot of good swings and made some good pars and some birdies. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 ROBERT ALLENBY: I needed it. I was pushing it, that's for sure. I tried to be more aggressive. But I had to. I was 4-over at the time. I was nine shots behind. So now I'm only five, so it feels a lot better. 

 Q. How was it playing with those two guys?
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Obviously I was just trying to jump in on their momentum, but I just couldn't quite manage it. I did on the back nine. The back nine was good. It was a good back nine. 

 Q. Does it give you a bit of confidence to finish? What hole did you pick it up at?
 ROBERT ALLENBY: I hit an 8-iron into the middle of the green on 12. And I made like a 25-footer or 20-footer for birdie. And then I birdied the next and then -- yeah, so it was, overall it was pretty good. 
 I was disappointed I didn't make birdie on 15. I hit a beautiful tee shot and a beautiful 3-iron straight at it and it flew a little bit further than we thought. And I was like, and we were thinking that 3-iron, I had to really hit 3 hard. And there's no way you can stand up there and hit 4-iron. No possible way. And to go where it went, it's tricky, it's always a tricky shot when you get back there. But you know what, birdieing 16 and 17, that's a good way to finish. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 ROBERT ALLENBY: I felt good about it. I thought it was in the jar, but. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 ROBERT ALLENBY: No, I kind of thought that a little bit, but I also, I thought, you know what, I'm playing too well, I'm hitting the ball too good and putting too good, I just got to be patient and just see what happens on the back nine. 
 Four birdies on the back nine, I know it's a tough golf course, we all know that. Tomorrow's a new day, so no one's going to run away with this tournament by shooting lights out, that's for sure. But I'm just going to try to play a little bit better over the next few days.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT