WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 12, 2010
Robert Allenby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOEL SCHUCHMANN: 9-under par through two rounds, great start to the week, you're one off the lead, obviously disappointed with the finish there, but excellent first two days. Maybe some opening comments.  
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Yeah, I've played well. I've thrown a few little dodgy ones in there, but -- do I need to translate that for you, dodgy ones, sort of a couple of crappy ones.   
 But you know, that's what's going to happen out here. You know, the conditions were pretty tough, and they weren't so bad probably for the first sort of three hours, but then that cool front, that change sort of came through and everything sort of changed. The whole golf course changed.   
 When we teed off the second hole, which was our 11th hole for the day, I hit 5-wood off the tee, downwind, and then I hit 6-iron directly straight into the wind. So is just changed instantly, right there and then. So, you know, where I would have normally have probably been hitting a wedge in, I hit 6-iron.   
 It got tricky, that's for sure. And they blew the horn when we got on about the 6th green, and we waited for however long it was, 18 minutes or so, and sat in the air conditioning for a little while there in the car. Went back out, and it was sort of tricky. It was tough to get the rhythm back and sort of get refocused again.   
 Made a good birdie at 8. Not a bad shot at 9, but wind was a bit flukey. We thought it was out of the right. Hit it down the right sort of 15 feet right of the hole and just stayed there; if not, it just drifted to the right, instead of going way left like it was meant to. So I was left with like a 40-footer up the hill. And then it started hosing down and blowing about 30. When we were all waiting for someone to blow the horn so we could get off there but they waited until we finished the hole out until Jim had just hit his final putt, and then they blew it.   
 So a bit unlucky there, because it would have been nice to hit that putt in normal conditions instead of hitting in conditions where I couldn't even see where the flagstick was, because the rain was coming down so hard. But I don't see the point of leaving us out there when we've still got two more days and we can go into Monday. I just didn't see what the rush was to get us finished, and there's still three, four, five groups left out there anyway.   
  
  Q. How far did you have on 2, the 6-iron?   
 ROBERT ALLENBY: I had about probably 150 yards.   
  
  Q. What would you have hit if the wind had not changed?   
 ROBERT ALLENBY: If the wind was going the direction that it was when I teed off, wouldn't have been anymore than a 9-iron.   
  
  Q. What would you have hit off the tee if the front had come --  
 ROBERT ALLENBY: I would have hit drive.   
  
  Q. Have you ever seen anything change that quickly?  
 ROBERT ALLENBY: It changed mid-flight, Furyk was the third one to tee off, and he hit driver, mid-flight, Lucas Glover and myself hit 5-wood and he didn't get past us with his driver.   
  
  Q. Is that unusual?  
 ROBERT ALLENBY: I have no comment. (Laughter).  
  
  Q. Can you walk us through the hole-in-one and the last time you might have had one of those in competition, if you haven't already done this chapter and verse outside already. We haven't heard your explanation?  
 ROBERT ALLENBY: You should have been out there with me then. That was my 14th. Had a perfect 5-wood, just landed perfect, a little bit of a fade, and just, yeah, it landed perfect, about 15 feet short of the hole and then sort of checked up and then rolled up into the hole.   
  
  Q. Saw it all the way?   
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Saw it all the way.  
  
  Q. What was everybody's reaction out there?  
 ROBERT ALLENBY: All of like 260 yards or whatever we had into that hole.   
 Yeah, well, the four people that were out there, they were pretty happy. (Laughter) Even the cameraman behind the green started giving me one of these, so it was five.   
  
  Q. So your wife did come out today to watch?  
 ROBERT ALLENBY: No, they are not here yet. (Laughter).  
  
  Q. Do you remember your last one in sanctioned play?  
 ROBERT ALLENBY: I holed a 5-wood at the Volvo World Match Play in Spain at the end of last year in the final round. My round, which was the final round, it was for third and fourth place against Angel Cabrera and it was on about the fourth hole there. He had gone like birdie, birdie, birdie, and I was a couple of down and I made a hole-in-one there with a 5-wood.   
  
  Q. That hole went quick?  
 ROBERT ALLENBY: I was like, I've got to hole out to win a hole. (Laughter) but yeah, that was my last one, and that wasn't that long ago. It's all good.   
  
  Q. Same club, was it?   
 ROBERT ALLENBY: No, that was a Srixon at the end of last year which I had for eight years and I just took them out about six weeks ago and I put a TaylorMade in.   
  
  Q. You had an eagle yesterday --  
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Yeah, I holed out with a sand iron on 5 yesterday. Yeah, each day has been kind of kind to me. But then I had a few little mysteries in there, too.   
  
  Q. Talk about how you saw the cold front coming in, and do you change your strategy before the rain really starts to come down or out play more conservative knowing you might need those strokes later on?  
 ROBERT ALLENBY: I just tried to hurry up as quick as I can to beat the rain. But you know, it's one of those things, especially the way it is at the moment out there. The weather is unpredictable on how it's going to gust. You've just got to wait for the right gust and trust it and just try and hit it and trust it at the same time.   
 But you know, it was -- the toughest part of the day was the last five, ten minutes of play, tougher than probably even yesterday. So the wind is just moving the ball all over the place; it was so hard to control it on the green.   
 Yeah, obviously when it's these sort of conditions, you've got to be very patient. You know you're going to have a few bogeys, maybe the odd double, but if you can try to manage to make as many birdies as you can and throw in the odd eagle, try and even it up a little bit. But just happy to be playing well and in contention for the weekend.  
  
  Q. On the last hole, I was listening to it over the radio, was O'Hair holding the umbrella for you?   
 ROBERT ALLENBY: I'm sorry.  
  
  Q. Was Sean O'Hair holding the umbrella for you?   
 ROBERT ALLENBY: I don't think he could have because he was in a different group. Unless he was invisible.   
  
  Q. I don't know what they were talking about on the last hole. Did you say you lost your umbrella at some point?  
 ROBERT ALLENBY: No, no. Glover's caddie was going to come over and hold my umbrella and I said, that's all right, that's all. Nothing major.   
  
  Q. What was your club on 1?   
 ROBERT ALLENBY: On the first hole I hit 7-iron out of that right rough.   
  
  Q. Have you ever seen weather change that quickly?  
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Melbourne. I'm from Melbourne.   
  
  Q. So it happens quite a bit?   
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Oh, yeah, we have four seasons in one day there.   
  
  Q. We're talking about one hole, though.   
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Yeah, I've seen it. I've seen it many a times. Probably I've seen it more in Australia than here, that's for sure.   
 You know, to do a complete 180, it was pretty amazing. And cold air, too. It goes from probably 80 degrees to, you know, 60. I mean, it changed. And it got cold pretty quick.   
 And then it warmed up again.   
  
  Q. And here you are?  
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Now it's cold again. (Laughter).  
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Robert Allenby, thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT