WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 11, 2010
Robert Allenby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Did it early seem like it was going to be one of those magic days or were you aware it would be as difficult as it was?  
 ROBERT ALLENBY: I was never predicting a finish like that for sure. It shows you how quick this golf course can creep up on you.   
 In all fairness, I didn't hit bad shots. I don't recall actually hitting one bad shot. So my shot into 15, I hit a great 6-iron into the par 3 and it was just a little long, a nasty little lie and I didn't make up-and-down.  
 And then it wasn't a bad tee shot off 16. I tried to just hit a little three quarter 9-iron into 16 green, and got a jumper and it flew miles and went left. You know, end of the story there.  
 And I ripped a drive down 17 and ended up just in the corner of the lip and just had no shot. You know, I was unlucky not to make par there because I thought I hit a good putt, I just hit it too hard maybe.  
 18, I hit a good drive and hit four and just hit the wrong club. Should have hit 5. But I hit a solid shot, but just too much club. I hit a good bunker shot, but I mean, probably the most scariest bunker shot you'll ever face, downwind, downhill, downhill stance and all of the grain going towards the water. I think I played a pretty good shot out of there.   
  
  Q. Are you discouraged going into round two?   
 ROBERT ALLENBY: You know, it is what it is. If someone had told me when I was teeing off this morning that I was going to shoot 4-under, I would say, yeah, I think that would be a great first round. You know, when you come from 8-under and you finish up at 4, you look at it and go, wow, you really messed that up. They are not easy holes. There was opportunities out there where I could have come undone on a few other holes, but I hit great shots to capitalize on those particular holes.   
 It is what it is. You know, there's three more days of golf. It ain't over. I think I'm own one shot off the lead. I might have been four in front, as someone told me, but it's not a sprint. It's a marathon. We have three more days and we have in gnarly weather tomorrow coming. It's not going to be an easy golf course tomorrow, that's for sure.  
  
  Q. You were actually five in front at one point.   
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Well, thanks for that, Doug.   
  
  Q. What happened on 5?   
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Hole 5? I hit a sand iron. 5-wood off the tee and sand iron, I think I had a couple of bounces and then just swallowed it up.   
  
  Q. (No mic).   
 ROBERT ALLENBY: I just haven't been -- the last few weeks, I haven't been hitting the ball very well. My short game has been pretty good. And last week I just hit it terrible. I spent the whole weekend and the last three days -- pretty much I spent the last five days just working with my coach, Darren May, and we have just been ironing out my swing. We have got it right now right where it needs to be.   
 So, you know, I'm looking forward to another good three days.   
  
  Q. Ankle 100%?   
 ROBERT ALLENBY: It's better. It's better. The ankle's better. It's probably about 60, 70 percent. It still hurts.   
  
  Q. (No mic. )  
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Definitely wasn't 8-under. You know what, it is what it is. It was a tough day. There's a lot of good out there and there's a lot of bad, and you know, I know bogeying the last few holes doesn't look great but I couldn't do anything about it. I tried my hardest on the last four holes and it is what it is.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT