RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 24, 2014
Robert Allenby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   That's a sweet 66 to get it started here at the Canadian Open.   You must have had a little fun out there today.   
ROBERT ALLENBY:   I played well, played nicely.   Just hit the ball solid, hit a lot of fairways, hilt a lot of greens, made some nice putts here and there.   But yeah, look, happy to start with a 66 for sure.   
   
 Q.   We haven't been to this venue for quite some time for the Canadian Open.   Give us your impressions of the course.   
ROBERT ALLENBY:   I like it.   It's very old school.   I was here I think it was in '01 when we last played here for the Open, and I enjoyed it then and I played quite well back then.   Yeah, I mean, I like these sort of old school courses.   It's all right in front of you, but there's certain strategies involved on certain holes.   I like the greens.   You've got to be very precise because a lot of the greens have got these mounds in them and there's different sections, which is very old school.   I kind of like that.   
   
 Q.   What was the key to your round here today?   
ROBERT ALLENBY:   I made it to the course from downtown.   
   
 Q.   That simple, huh?   
ROBERT ALLENBY:   No, I played well.   I hit the ball well off the tee and hit good iron shots and just made the odd putt or two.  
   
 Q.   Actually your best finish in the RBC Canadian Open was here in 2001.   How much different is this golf course after a renovation than you remember?  
ROBERT ALLENBY:   I remember some holes but not really a lot of it.   I've always remembered that it's very old school type of golf here.   The greens are‑‑ obviously you're playing two different nines.   The front nine is completely different to the back nine.   The back nine has got a lot of water on it, whereas the front nine doesn't have any water on it.   Some of the greens are smaller I think on the front nine.   
You know, it's a good test of golf.   Obviously it was a little soft this morning from the rain we had yesterday, but it's in great shape, and I was looking forward to coming here because of some of the memories that I did have from '01.  
   
 Q.   You're in position to make the Playoffs, although it's not a secure position, so for you after missing the Playoffs due to some injury last year, what is your feeling as you look forward to that part of the year?  
ROBERT ALLENBY:   Well, obviously I have to play well this week.   That was the plan, had last week off, obviously, just‑‑ you know, just took it easy last week, really.   It's been such a long year already.   I've played so much more golf than what I've ever played really in my whole career.   When you're not in the top 50 in the world and you're not in the majors and you're not in the world events, you schedule changes.   All of a sudden after 14 years, 15 years, I was playing all those tournaments, and then when you're not in, then you've got to go play courses that you haven't played before, and it's tricky.   It's not as easy as it once was.   But it's just a matter of persevering, and hopefully come this week I continue my form the way I played today.  
   
 Q.   Just a couple comments from today?  
ROBERT ALLENBY:   I played well from tee to green and putted quite nicely, too.   You know, I sort of really didn't struggle too much.   I hit a lot of fairways, hit a lot of greens and just tried to give myself as many opportunities as possible for birdie.   
   
 Q.   Does the course fit your eye?  
ROBERT ALLENBY:   Yeah, I like the course.   I like the course a lot.   I'm always a big fan of more the old school type of courses.   The courses they build today are just a bit too funky, I think.   Too many buried cars and all sorts of stuff, tractors in the middle of some of the greens these days.   But it's a good golf course, and I enjoyed playing here back in '01 last time I was here.   It's a good test of golf.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT