WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 11, 2010
Robert Allenby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ROBERT ALLENBY: The wind was gusting there on the side and I thought the wind was going to blow my putt, and I pulled it holding up into the wind a little bit.  
 Got a flyer on 16, end of story there.   
 17, I flushed my drive off the tee, and get up there and I've got no shot in the bunker. I just hit the putt too hard. Again, I thought the wind was blowing sort of right and I hammered it.   
 And then 18, I was in position with a 4-iron or a 5-iron, and anyway, I went with a 4 trying to hit a cut, and just hit it straight, dead straight. And obviously I put it in the worst spot possible.   
 But anyway, that's the way things go. You know, if someone had of said if you're going to shoot 4-under today, I would have taken it. Obviously when you're 8-under, you want to go on and try to get to 9 or 10, but conditions were tough. It just shows you, it's such a fine line between a really good shot and a bad shot, and you know, my 6-iron on 15 was not a bad shot. It was a great shot. But ended up making a bogey from it. It's just the conditions of the day.   
  
  Q. Sometimes you have to take the sweet with the sour, the way you finished, but four tough holes; once you get past that 12th hole, then it becomes very difficult, because crosswind, crosswind and in, in, in all the way to the house; why don't you describe in your own words how difficult that finish is?  
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Well, I hit a perfect shot into 15 with a 6-iron and thought it was perfect. My caddie thought it was short, and ended up being long. Chip, it was a niggly little one. And the putt wasn't fantastic. I was favoring left because I thought it was going right.   
 And then 16, I just got a jumper out of the rough on the tee shot. That's a tough tee shot with that crosswind and into.   
 And then 17, I hit a great drive off the tee, and I've got no shot in the bunker. And then I obviously hit my putt too hard. I thought I was going to leak it right and I powered it through the left lip.   
 18, I had in addition with my 5-iron and 4-iron and went with 4 and just ripped it. I was guarding for that right corner off the green, but you know, I just hit it too good. 5-iron probably was the right club there. Had a nasty lie in the bunker, downslope coming to that flag. I thought I hit a great shot out of the bunker and I couldn't believe it, I think it hit the fringe and released a bit more than what it should have.  
 But I was only trying to just get it on the green, just accept it and move on. Tough conditions. If fun had said I would have shot 4-under at the beginning of the day in those conditions, I would have taken it. A lot of golf to be played. I'm playing well. Just unlucky on four holes, really. I was unlucky on four holes. The rest of the 14 were pretty awesome.  
  
  Q. With this wind direction, you catch three of the four par 5s downwind, would you rather play TPC Blue Monster with this wind direction, or would you rather it at your back coming down 18?  
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Obviously 18 would be nice if it was downwind, to be able to hit 9-iron or wedge. You know, that's the beauty of that hole. I was watching guys -- I mean, I hit 4-iron in. Probably should have hit 5, and I saw some guys when I was playing 8 and 9 that were hitting 3-woods.   
 So, you know, I guess we were kind of lucky that we weren't hitting woods into there. But it's a tough finishing hole and it's a tough stretch to finish up with. Conditions are tough, so got to accept what happens.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT