FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 28, 2010
Robert Allenby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MARK WILLIAMS: Robert Allenby, thanks for joining us, 5-under 67 today on the South Course, the more difficult of the two courses obviously. Looks like nice playing conditions out there. This is your sixth start in this event and it looks like it's your best opening round. Just give us your thoughts on the round today, and obviously it went pretty well for you.   
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Yeah, it did. Yeah, I played nicely. No bogeys, so that's always a nice thing on the South Course. You know, it's not the easiest of courses that we play. It's definitely got some length to it. Yeah, very happy with five birdies. It's a good start.  
  
  Q. You mentioned no bogeys. Was there anywhere in the round where you came close to making an error?  
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Yeah, definitely on 15. I hit a 5-iron, caught the tree, was about 60 yards short of the green, and then I hit a sand iron up to, you know, five feet and knocked it in for par.  
 And then missed the green on 16, had one foot in the bunker, one foot out, just a smelly little shot that I had to play, and hit it down to about three feet. If I was ever in trouble, I saved very well, so it was good.   
  
  Q. I know you won the triple crown Down Under a few years back, you won the two events coming into this year here and then a very near miss. When was the last time your confidence in yourself was as high as it is right now? I'm assuming it's pretty high, or it ought to be.   
 ROBERT ALLENBY: No, I've got no confidence at the moment, really down -- (laughs.) No, I'd say 2005, when I did win the triple crown down in Australia. I think for me if I'm playing well, it just goes through my whole game. You know, the majority of the time I'm always hitting the ball pretty well, but I'm just not putting very well. My putting is good at the moment. It feels very solid, and it's been very consistent for probably six months really.   
 I've had a lot of good results, and then obviously winning at the end of last year twice was great, and then Sony was a great way to start the year with 2nd. Obviously today was a continuation of where I left off at Sony.   
 But still, you know, anything can happen the next few days. The North Course tomorrow is one of those courses that you could shoot level par or you could shoot 9-under. A lot of things can happen on that course.  
  
  Q. Nice to get the South out of the way first, the Open course, et cetera, et cetera?   
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Yeah, well, it's -- I think the only reason why I come to this tournament because of the South Course. I always enjoy playing it. I think it's very challenging.   
  You know, it's definitely a ball striker's course. You look at all the champions that have won at this golf tournament, the South Course is -- they've all -- there have been some unbelievable champions. And also long hitters, too. You need to have that length on those --            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT