VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
October 29, 2009
Robert Allenby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You were down early on and came back to take the lead. How pleased to get it done overall?  
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Very pleased. I think any win is a good win. Yeah, I struggled early just with the greens, just with the speed. I couldn't believe how fast they were. I mean, they had to be running at least 12 or 13 this morning and picking up speed downhill, that's for sure.   
 And then I started just sort of trying to find the right speed, and made a couple of nice putts for birdie and stuff and got a few back. Once I got up -- we both made a few mistakes, but it's going to happen around this golf course. I mean, there's some holes where you can take advantage of it and there are some holes where you're going to make mistakes, and you know that. So it's just a matter of trying to stay patient.   
 I wish I had made that putt on 16 to finish him off, but you don't want to hit it too far past and just get the right speed and I just picked the wrong line for the speed. But got it done in the end.  
  
  Q. You've made five Presidents Cups, including the one recently, how valuable is that head-to-head experience when you come to a match-play tournament?  
 ROBERT ALLENBY: You know, I was thinking about that the last couple of nights, and I think it's a good thing. Because I've just come off this format, only two or three weeks ago, and you know, so I've still got that mind-set, really. Especially when you play five matches. So you know you've just got to be patient. You know anything can happen, especially towards the end.   
 Yeah, even when I missed the putt on 16, I thought, well, I've just got to be patient. I know he's going to probably birdie 17 because he's got to go for it. Mind-set that I have is pretty much the same as what I had at The Presidents Cup. As long as it's not mind-set that I had on the Sunday, I'll be fine.   
  
  Q. Higher-ranked players have lost all four of the morning matches; does that tell us how close the margins are between you?   
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Yeah, you know what, anyone in this whole field can win, whether it's the guy that's the highest-ranked or the guy that's the lowest-ranked. You know, it just that type of format. It's not a stroke-play event; it's all about match play, and it's just a matter of trying to get job done, even when you have a bad hole, you've just got to try to pick it back up.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT