THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 9, 2009
Robert Allenby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. It was a testing match back and forth, how would you assess the play between you and Camilo and the Americans?   
 ROBERT ALLENBY: I would say I didn't play very well today. I was a bit shaky -- just a little bit up-and-down. Just sort of battled with my driver.   
 But Camilo played well. We just didn't make enough birdies. I made a couple towards the end there, but it was a bit too late.   
 But, you know, that's match play. We were hoping that something favorable might have come out of that putt there for us and at least get it to the last hole. But you know, it's two good players, and they played well and they played good enough to win.   
  
  Q. Are you pleased with everything?   
 ROBERT ALLENBY: The best part of my game is my putting. It's just I didn't swing at it fantastic today. I was a little bit off sync. Hopefully, I'll sort that now and get it right for tomorrow.  
  
  Q. The announcement on the Olympics, golf being in in 2016?  
 ROBERT ALLENBY: I think it will be great. I'll be too old, but it will be great.   
 I think it's a great thing for our sport. I think it's fantastic.   
  
  Q. Growth of the game, seems like it could start as early as tomorrow as far as countries that don't have it as much, particularly maybe South America.   
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Yeah, look, I think golf's been waiting to get in the Olympics. It's about time it got in there. So you know, it's a great thing for our sport, that's for sure.   
  
  Q. You sure made some clutch putts on 15 and here on 17. Was that the best part of your day today?   
 ROBERT ALLENBY: My putting feels great. I'm putting really well. I don't know, just my swing just didn't feel like it was on sync today and I battled with it.   
 It's funny, yesterday I played really well, hit the ball great, and Vijay and I combined really well. Fourballs is meant to be the easier one and I felt like we were always a little bit behind the 8-ball.   
 But you've got to drive it in the fairway and you've got to give -- you should be hitting 18 greens and you should be trying to have 18 goes at it; well, 36 goes, really, because there's two of you. We probably slipped up a little bit there because we didn't give enough chances for birdie. But we made some towards the end, but that's just the way it goes.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT