RBC HERITAGE
April 18, 2014
Robert Allenby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JOHN BUSH:   We'd like to welcome Robert Allenby into the interview room here at the rain‑delayed RBC Heritage.   Robert, one of those days I know you're used to at this point.   If we could get some comments on the start of your round and also how you did during today.  
ROBERT ALLENBY:   I birdied 1.   I birdied 2, and then parred the next few holes.   And teed off 6, down the middle of the fairway and then they blew the horn.   But at that stage it was getting very wet.   I mean, the water was running down the back of my shirt and you know where that ends up (laughter).   But that's when I know it's time to get out of there.   
But the funny thing is that we probably could have still played because the greens and the fairways really didn't have any water on them, at least the ones that we were faced in front of us.   But it's not fun when it's blowing 20 miles an hour every different direction and it's raining at the same time as well.   So it was nice to get out of there.   We know it's going to be raining until about 1 or 2 a.m.   So it's a good thing that they called it.   And hopefully tomorrow morning by 8:00 we can start and get back into it.   
   
 Q.   You've been coming to this golf course for a long time.   What do you like about this event?  
ROBERT ALLENBY:   I've always enjoyed coming to Hilton Head.   The Heritage has always been one of my favorite stops on Tour.   I've recently sold my boat and used to come up here, I used to have it at this tournament probably six out of seven years.   I've had my family up on the boat and I've also had some buddies staying with me on the boat over the last few years and that.   I've got to know a lot of great people from the marina and we've been tied up alongside each other for a number of years now.   And just with that event itself, the last couple of years I've been sort of hanging out a little bit on their boats.   
But it's been nice.   It's such a great place.   A shame about the weather at the moment, but it is a beautiful place to come to.   And it's a great golf course.   The thing I like about the golf course is that you have to use your imagination off the tee and then you have to use your imagination into the greens.   And it's not about just hitting one particular shot.   You don't have to be the longest hitter in the world.   You've just got to strategize yourself around the golf course and then make some putts, obviously.  
But I think it's a unique golf course.   There is no other golf course like this one on the Tour.   And it's always in great condition.   Even with this rain it's still in great condition.   It's just a pleasure to come to.  
   
 Q.   Is it frustrating to you to start so well on your second round and then come off the course, or do you feel like you can pick that up tomorrow morning and be just fine?  
ROBERT ALLENBY:   Look, I've played this game long enough and it is what it is.   We have to deal with all types of weather, whether it's wind or rain or sunshine.   I'll just pick it back up tomorrow and hopefully I can just keep going the way I'm going.   I feel like I'm playing well and hitting the ball well and making a few putts here and there.  
The thing I like about this golf course is that you don't have to shoot 25‑under to win the tournament.   I like courses like this where maybe single digits might even win this tournament.   It's a tough track becauseI know we're probably going to have some windy conditions over the weekend as well.   So it's not going to be an easy test.   It's going to be pretty tough.   And growing up in Australia playing with a lot of wind hopefully that will be in good stead for me.  
   
 Q.   Were the conditions today as difficult as they were yesterday morning for you guys?  
ROBERT ALLENBY:   No, they were much more difficult today.   Yesterday was cold and windy, whereas‑‑ probably not as windy yesterday morning, just more cold, if anything.   Whereas today, you know, it was still cool, but not as cold.   But it was more just the wind.   It was blowing like 20 miles an hour and raining sideways.   So not a lot of fun, that's for sure.   
JOHN BUSH:   Take us through those birdies on 1 and 2.  
ROBERT ALLENBY:   The first hole I hit a driver, 8‑iron, just a little three‑quarter punch 8‑iron to about three feet.  
And then on No. 2 hit my driver into the left trap, hit a 5‑wood just short of the green.   Knocked it up to ten feet and then made the putt for birdie.  
   
 Q.   Did you say you no longer own a boat?   And are you staying on a boat this week?  
ROBERT ALLENBY:   No, I'm staying in a two bedroom suite, one of the Marriotts.   And I have a friend that I've known over the years that has a nice boat that we're sort of hanging out on a little bit.   I've got some friends up here and so has he, and that's where we're hanging.  
   
 Q.   Do you find any renewed inspiration from Matt Jones or other Aussies?  
ROBERT ALLENBY:   I think I'm super happy that the Aussies are winning and doing fantastic.   I think more my focus is more on just myself and my focus is just on trying to rebuild my game and get it back to where it was.   I'm hitting the ball as good as I've ever hit it.   I'm doing everything the way I used to do it but it's just confidence.   No one can help you with confidence.   You can only help yourself.   And it's just been a lot of perseverance, and there's a long, long way to go this week, even still.   So I just hope that I can keep the confidence that I have at the moment going for the next couple of days.   
JOHN BUSH:   Robert Allenby, thank you.   
ROBERT ALLENBY:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT