ST. JUDE CLASSIC PRESENTED BY FEDEX
June 13, 2009
Robert Allenby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Robert, tell me how often you practiced that shot at 10 out of the pine straw.
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Not very often. Believe it or not, I do practice it when I'm leading up to Augusta. I practice it where I live right next door and there in Florida. I practice a lot of shots like that off the pine straw, but I haven't practiced it since Augusta, so it was a hell of a shot.

 Q. Were you surprised how well it came out?
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Oh, yeah. I had a massive rock behind it. Yeah. I didn't have much. I just tried to play an explosion shot as if I was going -- a bad lie in a bunker. Kind of came out perfect.

 Q. You've only played one bogey a day, the first three days.
 ROBERT ALLENBY: I had my first 3-putt today on 9 and that was a bit disappointing, and then I three-putted 16 and -- for par which was a bit disappointing as well. I just need to get the putter fired up a little bit. The first two days I putted really nicely. Maybe I tried a bit too hard today. I didn't feel like I did, but maybe tomorrow they might go in for me.

 Q. Last fall you talked about sleeping with your putter on Saturday night. Are you going to try that again?
 ROBERT ALLENBY: My wife is here this week, so I'll sleep with her. Be much better.

 Q. Let her sleep with the putter.
 ROBERT ALLENBY: I might give it to the kids. I'll probably break it.

 Q. Are you disappointed? Did you leave some out there, or how did you feel about your round?
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Definitely I left two out there, one on 9, which I 3-putted, and 16 where I 3-putted for par. There's a definite two -- there's a few more out there, but it's golf. You're going to make some and miss some, and you just -- you got to take the good and the bad. That's golf.
 I work on my putting, you know, in about ten minutes and hopefully I'll get it right for tomorrow. I know I'm hitting the ball well, and I know I can hit it a little bit closer than what I did today, and hopefully I can get some really close and make some easy birdies.

 Q. Obviously you played well here, last year in the playoff. This year you're playing really confident. Your confidence is always there. It's got to be soaring here.
 ROBERT ALLENBY: I love the golf course. I played really well last year. It just suits me. It's a golf course that suits me really well and, you know, as I said, I'm happy with the way I'm hitting it, just got to get a few more putts in and, you know, we'll see what happens tomorrow. 
 Eighteen more holes. Long way to go. Lot of golf to be played. Hopefully a lot of birdies to be made.

 Q. Conditions pretty favorable.
 ROBERT ALLENBY: You know what? They are. If you look at the leaderboard, there's not that many guys really shooting 5 and 6-under. It's a sneaky golf course. You think you should go out there and shoot 5, 6, 7-under every time. You always walk away with 3-under or 2-under.
 Tomorrow is the final day. Obviously some guys are going to feel the pressure. I'll just go out there and play my game.

 Q. Do you watch the President's Cup?
 A I saw the other day I was 11th. There's a lot of golf to be played.

 Q. You start peeking at it?
 ROBERT ALLENBY: I've missed out on a couple. It's so easy to put pressure on yourself and, you know, I want to make it, I want to make it, and then you bust your balls to try and get in there and you miss out. If I play well and get in, fantastic. If I don't get in, so be it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT