THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 8, 2009
Robert Allenby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 12 birdies, an eagle, some other shots, just talk about the overall two rounds?
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Yeah, I mean yesterday was a little bit up-and-down. 3-under after three and 3-over after nine. I was trying not to have too many pars on that first nine holes yesterday.
 Yesterday was just one of those days. I didn't feel good with the putter. I hit the ball nicely, but just didn't putt very well. But I managed to grab a couple of birdies on the back nine and I finished strong with a birdie on 9. I got it it back to 1-over.
 I knew I was hitting the ball okay, and I just had to work on the putter. I spent an hour or so last night and it felt good for today.
 6-under with a double bogey out there today. The good thing is I'm making a lot of birdies, it counter acts a lot of my mistakes. 

 Q. Did you do anything in particular with a changed putter or go through a certain drill or anything?
 ROBERT ALLENBY: No, just worked on getting soft, that's all, soft in the hands, that's all. 

 Q. I think you had a 6-bogey stretch?
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Yeah, I had six in a row yesterday.

 Q. How was your temperament after that and how did that affect the rest of the play?
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Well, actually I hit a good putt on 18 and it horseshoed out and that was for my 6th bogey in a row, from about 6 feet, 7 feet. I just thought, well, it can't get any worse. Surely I couldn't have seven in a row. That's golf. They're either going to go in or they're going to miss. And I know how good I can play and I know what I can do. So I just kept a level head and just tried to turn it around, which I did. 

 Q. How do you like your game at this place?
 ROBERT ALLENBY: I like my game. My game suits this golf course really well. I drive the ball well. I hit my long irons really well. And I'm a bit streaky sometimes with my putting, but if I manage to putt the way I did today for the next two days, there's no reason why I can't go out there and shoot another couple of low ones. 

 Q. How is the course playing today compared to yesterday?
 ROBERT ALLENBY: It's still a little soft. There's still a little bit of moisture in there. There was a lot of dew on the ground this morning so the greens were quite receptive. /TEUF. They were reaccept I have yesterday afternoon, as well. So the golf course, it's playing quite taim at the moment. It's a shame it's not a little bit harder and faster, because that would make it a lot harder.

 Q. Have you played with Camilo much before, your observations about his game?
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Yes, I'm played a little bit with Camilo. He's a great player. He played awesome yesterday. He played well today, too, just a few unlucky breaks, really. A couple of putts that looked like they were going in but didn't. The greens are a little grainier than most years, so the ball, if it's not on the right speed then it's not going to go in. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT