ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 27, 2009
Robert Allenby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Three good up-and-downs in a row at 15, 16 and 17, certainly kept the round together?
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Well, that's right. When I missed the green at 15, I made a nice up-and-down there and then made a good up-and-down at 16 and made a great up-and-down at 17. So those three in a row there definitely kept my round going. They're not easy holes, really, especially 16 and 17. I mean, they're probably two of the toughest holes that we play out on TOUR, especially being 16 and 17. 
 But you know, it's the same for everyone, and we've all got to hit the shots at the right time, and I was very happy with the way I played today. It was good.

 Q. You've played here a bunch of times. How tough is this golf course playing now? 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Well, it's playing -- you know, the greens were getting a little bit firmer out there today as the round went on, and the rough is pretty thick. The thickest part is probably more around the greens itself. Not that I've missed a lot of greens, but I think today when I missed the greens probably only once or twice, I was only in the rough. Most of the time I was in the bunkers. But I'm always hitting a fair amount of greens, so I don't really have to worry about that too much. 
 Look, it's tricky. Obviously they've lengthened a couple of holes, they've shortened a couple of par-5s, and those holes are really tricky to hit the fairway, especially 4. It's a pretty tough hole to hit now. 
 Obviously Arnie wants it a little bit tougher than normal. Obviously Sean O'Hair is not playing it too tough. But look, I think it's playing fantastic. The greens are in fantastic shape, and the whole course is just perfect. 

 Q. Would you go through your birdies on the front nine? 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Where did I birdie? I birdied 4, hit driver, 8-iron from the middle of the fairway. That was probably about a 20-footer. 
 6, I hit a 5-wood into the green and just missed it just right of the green there and chipped it, hit the flagstick and it stayed out. 
 I birdied the par-3, 7. That was a 6-iron, and that was about 25 feet. 

 Q. And the 5-iron on 14?
 ROBERT ALLENBY: The 5-iron on 14 was three feet.

 Q. And 13, you could have had another one there? 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Yeah, there was a few holes I could have had one. I hit the flagstick, and I think it went in the hole and came out on 5 and came back on the green. 

 Q. I know it's not something you think about with you and Tiger tied, but I think 32 consecutive made cuts --
 ROBERT ALLENBY: I thought I was ahead of him.

 Q. I think it's 32 each according to the stats. What's the key to that consistency there for you each week? 
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Just good play (laughing). 
 I don't know, you know, obviously I'm just playing solid. I've been hitting the ball well more consistently the last couple years, so that's kind of helped. I play more tournaments than Tiger, so mine should be a lot better than his (laughing). 
 I don't know, it's just consistent play, that's all it is. That's all it comes down to. I don't make a lot of stupid errors off the tee or anything like that. I'm a very aggressive but conservative player I would say. I go for it when it's on, and I don't when it's not on. I don't make those stupid mistakes of making the doubles and triples and stuff. 
 You know, it's just hitting the ball well and the putting sort of varies from up-and-down. But just consistent play, that's all, just ball-striking is good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT