SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 11, 2014
Robert Allenby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Here you are going into Sunday with a chance to win this thing. 
ROBERT ALLENBY:   Yeah, well, I hope so.   You know, I'm playing well enough, but hopefully we'll just see what this weather does.   We've got lucky so far, I think. 
But playing well.   Just‑‑ yeah, I either miss the cut or I play well.   Once I made the cut, there was only one way.

Q.   What did you think about the way you started off today?   Seemed like a real hot start. 
ROBERT ALLENBY:   I played well.   I got lucky.   I hit a snap hook off the first tee with a driver and up against the fence, got a nice friendly drop, hit a 5‑wood to the front of the green and made it from off the green, so that was a good start. 

Q.   How did you get a drop?   What's OB, the range itself?
ROBERT ALLENBY:   You've got to be inside the OB.   I was outside, but I was restricted with the fence.

Q.   That's a huge break. 
ROBERT ALLENBY:   Massive.

Q.   Congratulations. 
ROBERT ALLENBY:   Thank you.   About time I got kissed on the‑‑

Q.   Tape is running. 
ROBERT ALLENBY:   I didn't say anything.   I didn't say‑‑ whatever. 

Q.   You're obviously putting well this week. 
ROBERT ALLENBY:   I've been putting very‑‑

Q.   Did you make some changes going in?
ROBERT ALLENBY:   No, I've been playing the guys at Admiral's Cove, all the 60 year olds, and they make me putt out, because they're like waiting for me to miss.   You know, I keep shooting 7‑, 8‑, 9‑unders and stuff with them.   I guess these lunch bunch guys at Admiral's Cove where I live, they've put me in a good mental state for out here on TOUR.   I said, you guys are making it easier out on TOUR than it is playing with you guys.   It's harder to win 100 bucks off them or 20 bucks off them than it is out here.

Q.   When did you start doing that?
ROBERT ALLENBY:   We've been doing it for a while.

Q.   That must have irritated you. 
ROBERT ALLENBY:   But my lawyer buddy just keeps hammering me.   Lawyers are lawyers.   They don't give you nothing.   They don't give you an inch.   I'm like, you guys are tough. 
But anyway‑‑

Q.   There's some truth to that, isn't there?
ROBERT ALLENBY:   Yeah, I've putted well.   It's been feeling good, and obviously I putted well the last three days out here.   I've hit the ball good.   A lot of greens I've just missed the green, but then I've made it from just off the green, just off the fringe.

Q.   I don't know what your numbers show, but you wouldn't be 9‑under without making some. 
ROBERT ALLENBY:   No, of course not.   I'm happy with the way I'm putting.   I'm putting well, so hopefully it stays that way.

Q.   What's the shortest putt they wouldn't give you?
ROBERT ALLENBY:   They made me putt everything out, even a foot.   They're like, putt it out.

Q.   Have you missed one?
ROBERT ALLENBY:   No, not yet.   With them anyway. 

Q.   Any other highlights to the day, any long putts you made?
ROBERT ALLENBY:   No, not really.   I just played solid.   You know, there was a couple of iffy shots on the back nine there, but obviously the last hole is a bit funky.   You try and hit a snap hook off the tee, and I overdid it, turned it a bit too quick.   I actually got lucky because I was able to go down the 10th fairway because I was right up‑‑ right behind the tree with no shot.   So I was very lucky to get it to where I did and then lucky to get a 9‑iron over the top of those palms. 
But I just played solid.   Played solid.   Should have birdied 8 and 9 but didn't.   But you know, it wasn't from hitting bad putts.   Hit good putts that didn't go in.

Q.   So you're 9‑under without birdieing the par‑5s?
ROBERT ALLENBY:   Yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT