U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 13, 2008
Robert Allenby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Full Audio Interview 
   
Q. 1-over, will you take it? Do you feel okay with that? 
  ROBERT ALLENBY: Yeah, absolutely. It's the U.S. Open, isn't it? I probably played a lot better today as far as controlling my ball a lot better. I gave myself more opportunities yesterday for birdies, but I left a few out there today. It's not easy, that's for sure. It's pretty tough out there. 
   
   
Q. Do you feel consistency has come back into your game, coming  
back with great results in the tournament prior, and now you're  
playing solid, consistent golf? 
  ROBERT ALLENBY: I've been working quite hard now on my swing, and it's nice to get some results. Sometimes you work so hard and then you don't get the results and it can take a little while. The results are starting to come now. Obviously last week was a good result for me. 
   
   
Q. You said yesterday was one of the worst you ever played, you  
improved significantly today.  
  ROBERT ALLENBY: Absolutely. They were probably the worst greens I've ever putted on yesterday. 
   
Poa annua, I grew up on it in Australia, if you don't feed it with  
water it just dies really quickly, and it can get really patchy and  
bumpy.  
   
All the old holes that have been cut over the times, they all showed  
up. That's what happened yesterday. And they were showing  
up and all the core marks from the previous hole punching. And  
they were tough yesterday to putt on.  
   
But this morning they definitely watered them heavily, probably  
overnight and last night and this morning, and they definitely showed  
a lot more moisture in there. They were definitely a lot fairer  
and a lot more receptive to good putts. They didn't bounce like  
they did yesterday. 
   
   
Q. It didn't seem to have a fear factor of an Oakmont when the  
week started, are the scores about what you thought going into the  
weekend? 
  ROBERT ALLENBY: I guess the way it's set up from tee-to-green, it's as fair as you'll ever see it, it really is. But it's the greens that really make this golf course tough. 
   
When we play the Buick here the greens are really soft and they're  
quite good, really, for as soft as they are. But when you've got  
-- when you dry these greens out they can become probably some of the  
hardest greens you ever putt on, and that's what happened  
yesterday. And even today they're going to dry out with this  
weather. As soon as you get some sun on poa it sucks all the  
moisture out. 
   
   
Q. Are you excited with your position, Robert, or is it too  
early? 
  ROBERT ALLENBY: I'm just happy with the way I'm playing. I just want to play solid and keep it going through tomorrow and through the weekend. My main goal is just to give myself a chance come Sunday. 
   
So it's going to be tough out there for these guys this  
afternoon. I'm happy with the way I'm playing. I'm playing  
solid and every now and then I make a couple of putts, so it's all  
good. 
   
   
Q. Is it going to be near par? 
  ROBERT ALLENBY: I think so. It's the U.S. Open. It really depends on the greens. It depends on how much water they put on the greens and how playable they are, because even now there's some greens out there that you can't hold it on the green. It's tricky. You've got to really pick your shots and you've got to manage yourself well around this course. I definitely did that quite well the last two days. 
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT