FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 9, 2012
Robert Allenby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Roberts, good par save at the last and a late little birdie run there 3-under, 67.   Talk about this third round.  
ROBERT ALLENBY:   Yeah.   I mean, I should have had a few birdies early in the round, messed up a couple like 2, 3 messed up.   But, after the front-9, I just thought if I could get a few birdies on the back-9 and try to get it somewhere around 5 and see how it goes tomorrow.   
It was nice to birdie 15, 16, 17.   Obviously a nice par save at the last.   It makes dinner taste good for tonight.   That's for sure.  
   
 Q.   Pin placements looked pretty tight today on some difficult spots.   How were the conditions?  
ROBERT ALLENBY:   The winds are starting to pick up.   They're swirling a little bit.   More gusty.   One minute it's up, one minute it's down.   Couple times today the ball was in midflight, looked good and came up short or came up long.   
But, yeah, some of the pins here are a little bit tight, but it's all right.   I mean, that's what this golf course is all about.   It's not one that someone is going to shoot 25-under.   That's why I like coming here.   It's a good event, ball striker's event.   
You know, obviously didn't like the last pin placement there, that's normally Sunday.   Obviously they're changing them around.   That is good.   I like them changing.  
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on Sunday going off in threesomes fairly early to try to beat the weather.   There could be a real dog fight with a bunch of guys in the hunt.  
ROBERT ALLENBY:   Absolutely.   It's no different than any other time.   I think a couple years ago there was a playoff, Justin Leonard.   The same thing again.   As long as you're around after nine holes on Sunday afternoon, anything can happen.   
You know, it's one of those golf courses that you post a score and probably end up the winner.   There's not a lot of easy holes out there, especially on Sunday afternoon.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT