STANFORD ST. JUDE CHAMPIONSHIP
June 8, 2008
Robert Allenby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Robert, is there anything better than having shot like that on 18 that you need to pull off and pulling it off?
 ROBERT ALLENBY: I've done that a few times, actually, in my career that -- you know, hopefully, it's good enough. All I could do today was just go out there and try and make some putts. That's where I struggled all week on the greens. I really haven't had the right speed all week. 
 Today I had a few more went in. So, you know, it's always nice to hit shots like the last hole there, just a three-quarter 8-iron and just turned it over perfect to the flag. Landed it exactly where I needed to. I'm sure it would have come pretty close to going in. It's nice to make a putt and get out there.

 Q. Is this a confidence building round going into next week?
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Absolutely. I played well last week. I played really well last week, probably one of my best ball striking rounds, and I putted well but I only finished 10th. This week I'm probably, I don't know, close one or two greens in reg. That's normally me. I sort of scrapped around with a putter. When you're hitting a lot of greens, it's hard to make all the putts and, you know, I've always a lot of chances. I'm just wishing that a few more would go in a little quicker than what it does.

 Q. What are you going to do now waiting to find out what happened?
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Go to the clubhouse, chill out, have some lunch and cool off. It's been so hot here all week. I don't know what the temperature is, high 90s. I'll just -- I'm happy with the way I played. I'm happy with my position, and I'll just leave to it them now. They can do whatever they want to do.

 Q. How was it today?
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Nice to make some putts, actually. All week I've hit the ball well. Just really haven't made a lot of putts each day. But, you know, I played -- today I played solid. I did what I felt like I had to do. Would have been nice to have got it to 5. My goal was to get it to 5-under. I thought coming into the day 5-under would be -- probably a winning score. I'm hoping it's going to be 4.
 But, you know, I've done my bit. When you birdie the last, that's all you can do and sit it out and wait, and if it's good enough, it's good enough. It definitely gives me a lot of confidence going into next week.

 Q. Specifically talk about the next shot on 18. That shot has not been giving up a lot of birdies. You've been able to complete the mission.
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Hit a good 3-iron off the tee. A perfect little three-quarter 8. My natural shot is a draw. I was aiming -- I started about probably 10 feet right of the flag and just drew it back nicely to the flag, and it was perfect.
 I landed it exactly -- picked a number to land it, and, I mean, it's one of those shots that came off. I've done it enough times that sometimes I'm expected to hit some good shots.

 Q. Would you say that the similarities between here and Torrey may be the slick, dry greens that you're going to see? And if so, you talked about the momentum, carry a lot of that?
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Really what I'm looking forward is the confidence, and that's what Robert Allenby needs. He needs the confidence to get that putter going and make putts. It's really my whole career is based around that because I'm a pretty good ball striker. The records speak for themselves.
 It's just the putting has sort of let me down. When you get so many opportunities from inside 10, 15 feet all the time, you're not going to make them. The odds are you're not going the make them all, and I'm just -- I'm happy with the way I finished this week. 
 It's going to give me a lot of confidence for next week. Totally two different golf courses from this week to next week. The fairways are pretty generous here, and there is no rough. The greens I'm sure next week are going to be pretty slick. Those greens have a lot of subtle breaks on them.
 This week really is just a confidence booster going into next week.

 Q. How has the field been this week?
 ROBERT ALLENBY: It's been a great field. A couple Major champions, quite a few Major champions here, couple of current ones with Trevor and Padraig. It's a good field. It's a good tournament. I like being in this spot. I'm happy to be here. Although it's stinking hot.

 Q. Do you routinely play the week before the Open to try to get the competition?
 ROBERT ALLENBY: I had two weeks off prior to last week, so I've got severe tendinitis in my right elbow. That's the strap I'm wearing, and I just wanted to play a couple leading into it just to get my game where it needs to be.

 Q. Go out tonight?
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Yeah, tonight. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT