STANFORD ST. JUDE CHAMPIONSHIP
June 8, 2008
Robert Allenby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOAN vt ALEXANDER: Thank you, Robert, for joining us for a few minutes here in the Media Center. It was a long today, finished early, posted a good score. Went out, had a playoff. Y'all had great shots, putt there on 11, and you got to be proud of yourself. You played well this week under tough conditions.
 ROBERT ALLENBY: It was. It was tough. You know, the golf course was set up tough, but we kind of getting used to that because that's every week on the PGA TOUR lately, at least for the last three years.
 You know, it's one of those weeks where really the first three days I didn't make many putts, and I really was pretty not good with the putter, and today I made some nice putts. I still missed a bunch of putts out there today, could have easily left three, four out there that I could easily count up. 
 But that's golf. You've got the make them when you can, and I made a good birdie at 18 in regulation to get myself to a playoff. So, you know, playoffs, I've been in 11 in them now, and that's the first I've ever lost.
 It had to come to an end sooner or later. But anyway, that's golf, and Justin is a good champion, and he's obviously a fantastic player, and I lost to a good putt so -- no bad thoughts about that anyway.
 JOAN vt ALEXANDER: Questions?

 Q. What do you take from the playoff? Doesn't sound like you're overly disappointed. Do you look at the kind of the larger picture?
 ROBERT ALLENBY: You know what? What can I do? I did my best, and my best wasn't good enough. You can't dwell on it. Second, it's not a bad effort, is it? You know, I'm playing against the best players in the world. We did have a great field here this week and, you know, to come down to one shot, you know, I mean, that's golf. And so you take this, you move on, and I take the confidence that I got out of this week and I put it into next week.
 I'm hitting the ball the best I've ever hit it, and you can see my stats, they tell you that. I'm hitting the ball very straight off the tee, and I'm hitting my irons as good as I've ever hit them. My short game is good. My putting is good. I'm hitting a lot of greens and hitting a lot of shots close. You're not going make them all. 
 Sometimes it can be a little bit frustrating, but next week is one of those courses where, you know, it's the guy that hangs tough at the end of the week, you know that somewhere around level par is going to be the winning score.
 I know I'm playing well enough to play well there, and I like the golf course in San Diego there, Torrey Pines. I've got to take a lot of confidence out of this. I haven't finished second on the Tour -- I haven't had a chance to win on this Tour since '01. I've won other times in Australia. '05, I won three tournaments in a row, three weeks in a row. Just I'm happy to be playing well, and I have no negative thoughts or anything about this week. I've had a great week. It's been very hot and looking forward to a day off tomorrow and recharge the batteries and get myself all ready for Thursday.

 Q. Would you walk me through the last three holes in regulation?
 ROBERT ALLENBY: 16, I hit a drive. Wind sort of picked up there. Coming a little bit out of the left, and I hit it just into the rough. I played a 5-wood up into the front right trap and splashed it out to probably about 15 feet and made the putt for birdie.
 17, I hit 3-wood off the tee, hit a 6-iron into the middle of the green, probably about 25, 30 feet and lipped it out. I thought it was in. I never thought that that putt was going to miss, and the grain took it right at the end and lipped it out.
 And then 18, hit 3-iron off the tee and 8-iron into the green, nearly holed the 8-iron. Hit it to about two and a half feet.

 Q. Did you hit 3-iron in the playoff?
 ROBERT ALLENBY: I hit a 3-iron, 8-iron again into the playoff, into 18.

 Q. You hit 9-iron into the par 3?
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Hit a 9-iron at the par 3. I thought I hit a really good shot. I didn't think I could actually hit it that far. But that's the way it goes.
 JOAN vt ALEXANDER: Everybody all set? 
 Thanks, Robert. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT