WACHOVIA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 4, 2008
Robert Allenby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Bogey-free 66. Could it have been better?
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Yeah, it could have been a lot better, actually. I know I can definitely say I left three or four out there. I missed -- well, I three-putted 15 for par. I mean, I did have from front edge to the back edge putt, which was pretty difficult anyway. And then I hit it to about six feet at the last and missed it. I thought it was going to turn, and all day my uphill putts I sort of left them on the low side, so I just blew it straight through the break. 

 Q. This course just got firmer and faster all week. We thought it was going to rain last night, and it didn't. It was hopping a lot today, wasn't it?
 ROBERT ALLENBY: The greens were really firm. There was only one green that was soft out there, and that was the par-5, 7th. I hit a 5-wood in there and it stopped dead, which I was totally surprised. I thought it would roll up the hill and roll all the way back down to the flag. Every other green was like cement. I mean, it really was. 
 But the course was perfect. They really did -- I can honestly say that they did a fantastic job this week with the way they set the course up. It was tough today, but obviously if you hit good shots and make some putts, you can shoot a good score.

 Q. Were you scoreboard watching at all? Did you know that Anthony was just running away?
 ROBERT ALLENBY: I kind of sensed that he was going for a bit of a trip. I had a look on 17 just to see where he was. I knew he was going pretty good. I was playing for second, and I wished I had got it to 10, but that's this golf course. 
 You know, that's the first time all week I've parred the last three holes. I made a double at 16 the first day. It's a tricky golf course, it really is. Those last three holes, you can rack up anything there. 
 It would have been nice to get one at the last there, would have been -- would have felt like I had cheated.

 Q. Does it set you up for next week in THE PLAYERS, though? Does it put you in a good mindset the way you played today and the way that it sets up for next week?
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Absolutely. I haven't seen my coach for about the last six months, seven months, and we worked on a few things on the weekend and all this week. You know, I'm hitting the ball fantastic. It's just a matter of just letting the putter go and letting it be free, and today it freed it up a little bit.

 Q. I want to ask you about Anthony. Have you played with him?
 ROBERT ALLENBY: A couple of times.

 Q. He's scary talented, isn't he?
 ROBERT ALLENBY: Yeah, he's got a lot of talent. He's still very young. I feel like an old man compared to him, and I'm only 36, but I'm still a lot older than him. But yeah, he has a lot of talent. He's got a great swing. 
 That's the thing, when you're that young, you've got to make the most of it because once you get a little bit older that's when the brain starts thinking too much, and that's when you get in the way of yourself. Today he's just let himself go and just freed it up, and that's why he's playing so well.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT