WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 25, 2007
Robert Allenby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ROBERT ALLENBY:  I just went out there with a positive attitude today.  And just tried to be more aggressive.  When you start the day 1-under, and the lead is at -- what was he, 11?  So, you know, I just knew that I had to go out there and play aggressive and just to finish as high as I could really.  I didn't see anyone ever catching Tiger.  When he's in front, he's a hard man to beat, especially if he's four or five shots in front. 
 But you know, I just -- I just went out there and I putted great.  I did what I had to do and I knew I needed to turn my putting around because the last two days, it was pretty dismal.  I've been working yesterday on my routine, and today I felt like I got it right, and I made a lot of putts. 

 Q.  (Did you find something in your putting)? 
 ROBERT ALLENBY:  Yeah, I just spent less time over the ball, and I've been like freezing over the ball and just tightening up.  So when you do that, you just can't release the putter head. 
 So now I've got my routine; it's pretty quick.  So as soon as that club goes back over behind the ball, I'm ready to go.  I just felt like I free-wheeled the putter all day today. 
 It would have been nice to have made the putt from about eight feet for birdie at 16, and then I hit it across the face on 17.  You know, I hit two good putts, but I thought 16 was lightning fast because it was straight downhill and I had the wind howling in my face.  You know, I just didn't hit it hard enough there, but it wasn't a bad stroke on that. 
 But look, you know, I knew I was never going to win, so I was trying to finish second.  That was my main objective; try to finish as high as I could to try to finish second. 

 Q.  Good confidence for Tavistock Cup? 
 ROBERT ALLENBY:  Yeah, it's given me good confidence going into the Tavistock Cup tomorrow and Tuesday. 

 Q.  Probably a good way to finish, after the Bay Hill Invitational. 
 ROBERT ALLENBY:  The way I putted today is what I'm going to work on all day next week.  If I can put like I did today at Augusta, I'll be in with a chance on Sunday.  I'm hitting the ball great and I hit a lot of good shots.  Every Augusta (Masters) I've been, it's always my putting that's left me down.  They are tricky greens, too.  You can have a three-and-a-half-foot putt there and you'll have a foot of break, so it's not easy. 
 But I know if I go with this routine that I'm working on, I'm definitely putting a lot better and I'm confident going in there. 

 Q.  What's the mind-set when you come into a day like this and Woods is running off and hiding, and you know you're playing for placement? 
 ROBERT ALLENBY:  Was he hiding behind the trees, was he?  (Laughing). 

 Q.  Is that a tough mind-set to get yourself into? 
 ROBERT ALLENBY:  No, I mean, my goal today was to go out there and find some form for a week's time. 
 You know, just try to finish as high as I could on the leaderboard.  My 5-under today was as good as the first day.  I don't know if anyone will shoot 5-under out there today; maybe, but it's not easy out there, let me tell you.  The greens are like concrete.  The greens are running fast and the wind's just really gusty.  It not just the consistent wind like we had on Thursday where you just knew it was 25 into your face; whereas here, gusts as 25 and then it slows down to 10. 
 So, it's a little trickier.  But you know, there's some pin placements on that back nine that not many guys will get to.  So it's tricky, that's for sure. 

 Q.  The way you've played, is part of you sorry to see the Florida Swing end? 
 ROBERT ALLENBY:  No, it's just the way it is.  We've played our tournaments here and we move on to the next lot. 
 I'm not sorry to see it go.  I've played well at Honda.  I've played well here now.  You know, I'll look forward to next year coming back; that's if they have it here.  I don't know if it will be here.  Is it going to be here?  Have they decided that this tournament will be here next year? 

 Q.  For the next 30, yeah. 
 ROBERT ALLENBY:  The next 30 years?  Oh, okay.  Well, I'll see you here for next 30 years. 

 Q.  (Finishing second, it's you, Johnson, thoughts if you'll finish second). 
 ROBERT ALLENBY:  The only thing I'm looking at is getting in my car and driving home to Jupiter.  Look, I've done my bit.  I can't do anything else.  I've played as hard as I could today and I can't do -- I can't help whatever they are doing.  I'm not a witch doctor.  I just -- it's all out of my hands now.  I've done my part.  Whether I finish second, third, fourth or fifth or eighth, it's whatever it is. 

 Q.  Do you feel playing for second, it's like a tournament within a tournament? 
 ROBERT ALLENBY:  No, definitely not.  I think anyone that was around 5-under had a chance.  If someone at 5-under went out and shoot 6-under today, that would put pressure on Tiger, wouldn't it.  Especially on a day like today.  Those last few holes can be tricky. 
 But again, you have to go out and do it.  I think it's a lot easier to shoot 5-under from a little bit earlier because there's no pressure when I was playing out there. 

 Q.  Phil Mickelson mentioned earlier that he had to slightly adjust his swing because of the higher ball flight, etc., at Augusta.  Will you do any tweaking? 
 ROBERT ALLENBY:  No.  I just flush it anyways, so I don't need to change anything. 

 Q.  Is there anybody else with a sizeable lead like Tiger has, because of the tough last few holes on the course, does anybody else have a shot at what you shot today?  You say you're driving home, you're not concerned; but is there anybody else at the top of the leaderboard? 
 ROBERT ALLENBY:  I haven't even looked at to who is there.  I don't even know.  I wasn't looking at the leaderboard really. 

 Q.  With Tiger, is there more of a chance of a collapse more so -- because it's Tiger leading? 
 ROBERT ALLENBY:  I don't know.  Depends on who is there.  I don't answer the question, I don't know, sorry. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT