WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 22, 2007
Robert Allenby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Can you talk about how difficult it was to play out there today?   
 ROBERT ALLENBY:  It was very difficult.  I mean, whenever it's blowing 25 miles an hour, and gusting to maybe 30, 35, it's difficult.  You know, it's difficult to control the ball, and hit it in the positions that you need to hit it on.  You know, the fairways here are not that wide, so you really have to use obviously your imagination and just work it around the golf course.   
  
  Q.  Were you surprised to shoot the number you did in these kind of conditions?   
 ROBERT ALLENBY:  No, not at all.  Actually I probably -- I could have shot lower.  There was a few putts that I did miss out there.   
 But it's tough.  It's hard when the wind's blowing as hard as it is, and the ball is going all over the place and you're just sort of waiting for one to roll off on you.   
 It's difficult.  It's difficult to stay still over the putts, and it's difficult to stay still, keep your -- keep good rhythm and keep your composure when it is blowing like that.   
 But I hit a lot of good shots.  You know, I played within myself, hit a lot of great iron shots, and you know, I made -- and the putter was good, too.   
  
  Q.  You're focused on your own game, Tiger was lamenting his putter, and you mentioned a few that got away from you; did you guys talk about putting in the round at all, frustrations?   
 ROBERT ALLENBY:  No, we're not allowed to do that, so we would never do that.  So you know, his game is his game, my game is my game.  It really doesn't matter.   
 Yeah, I'm watching him, but I'm not keeping a close eye on him.  I've got enough to worry about with my own game out there when it's that windy.   
  
  Q.  Mentally is it more difficult with the wind than physically?   
 ROBERT ALLENBY:  No, I prepared myself this morning that it was going to be a tough day.  Mentally I made a note that it was just one of those days.  You know, I really had to play within myself.  I am going to make mistakes and I'm going to hit some great shots.   
 I counteracted a lot more better shots than bad shots, and you know, I'm very happy with the way I struck it and I hit a lot of good putts, too.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT