BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 18, 2007
Robert Allenby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOE CHEMCYZ:  Thanks for joining us.  Today not as good as yesterday, maybe if you would again just please talk a little about today and the conditions and then we'll open it up to some questions. 
 ROBERT ALLENBY:  I guess this morning, the nice thing about it, when I left my hotel, there was no wind, and but when I got out here it was probably gusting at 35.  I played the first five or six holes, it was pretty tough.  It can pick up pretty easy. 
 But it was a very up-and-down day, lots of birdies, lots of bogeys.  Just maybe a little bit of concentration on a few things and wayward putts that lipped out, whereas yesterday they all went in.  So that's probably the difference.  Obviously I missed a couple of greens today, whereas yesterday I didn't miss any.  You know, it's hard and you've got to keep in the back of your mind that you've got to shoot 5-, or 6-under each day to be in the lead. 

 Q.  How was your scorekeeper today? 
 ROBERT ALLENBY:  She only messed up I think once.  (Laughter) Yeah, that was pretty good compared to five times yesterday. 
 Except for the ninth green today, I looked at the leaderboard to see where I was and had me at 12 and I knew I was at 11.  And I go over to my caddie and tell him, but, anyway, she put me down for a par on the fifth hole instead of a bogey.  Maybe she went to powder her nose on that hole, I'm not sure.  (Laughter). 
 But she held it together on the back nine.  (Laughter). 

 Q.  Does it get annoying at some point, I think we all thought yesterday as a fluke; is it kind of bothersome? 
 ROBERT ALLENBY:  It's not that bad.  You know, the worst thing is that mentally, everyone thinks you're making and doubles and triples everyone thought I made double at the last yesterday when I made birdie.  Then I go 3-putt No. 9 and then everyone thinks I made double, so they are probably thinking, oh, yeah, this is good, he's coming back to us.  (Laughter). 

 Q.  Does that happen much at PGA TOUR events with the score keeping? 
 ROBERT ALLENBY:  It happens every now and again.  It doesn't happen two days in a row. 
 Maybe it's just me they are attracted to.  Maybe I just put so much pressure on them, it's just the awe of being around me, you know.  (Laughter) Maybe it's the accent, they just don't understand what I'm saying.  I say "four," maybe it means three to some people, I don't know. 
 JOE CHEMCYZ:  Thank you, we sure appreciate your time.  Thank you and play well the rest of the week. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT