BUICK OPEN
August 5, 2006
Robert Allenby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DAVE SENKO:  Talk a little about your day, you were 1 under on the front and then 5 under on the back.
ROBERT ALLENBY:  I didn't really have too much going on the front nine.  I hit a couple of good shots, made a couple of birdies or whatever but didn't really do anything exciting.

And then on the back nine, the back nine is one of those nines where you could shoot a really low score.  Every hole on the back nine feels like a birdie hole.  I hit some good shots on the back nine and made a lot of good putts.  I putted really well.

So, you know, that was really the key for the back nine.  Going through the holes, I just had little chips or pitches or whatever and just hit them pretty close and made them.
DAVE SENKO:  Birdies, start at No. 1, your shot sequence?
ROBERT ALLENBY:  I didn't make birdie at the first.  I birdied the second.  Driver, 8 iron to about a foot.

6, hit a poor 3 wood off the tee.  Hit an 8 iron into the rough near the green, and then went under it into the bunker and then flopped it out to five feet and made and made it for bogey.

Then I hit a little 5 iron at 8.  Knocked it in from about eight or nine feet.

Then 10, I hit a little 9 iron in there to about five feet and made it.

12, driver, chipped it up to about five feet and made it.

Driver,3 iron into 13.  Just missed the green to the left.  Chipped it up to about three feet and made it.

Driver at 14 to 50 yards from the flag and hit the pitch up to about six feet.

16, driver, 3 wood, chip to eight feet.  And that's really about it.
Q.  The leader is going is going to be at 17 or 18, how does that change your approach going into Sunday that you're probably going to have to shoot something like 65 or 66 or better to win this?
ROBERT ALLENBY:  Yeah, it's the type of golf course that you can shoot anything.  I mean, last year I shot 7 under the last eight holes to finish fourth, and it just shows you that you you're never really out of it, especially if you're close enough to the lead.  We all know that we have to shoot mid 60s just to keep up with the lead, and that's just the way the course is playing.

From the rain that we had    or when I first got here, I played nine holes Tuesday afternoon, and I thought the golf course was perfect.  But then we had the rain and it really softened things up.  You know, it made the golf course the same as every other year where it just became target golf and that's what the situation is out there now.  It's target golf.  You're not scared that it's going to bounce through the green or anything on those back flags.  You can just fire straight at it and most of the time it will spin backwards.

It's just pretty much aim at the flag and hit it.  You know, it's not going to run too far from once the pitch is on the green.  When it's like that and you've got a lot of short holes on the back nine here, there's a lot of opportunities for birdies, and eagles, too.
Q.  I'm sure you wouldn't want to play every tournament like that where the final score was going to be 25 under, but is it fun to play a tournament like this once in awhile where it turns into a birdie fest like this?
ROBERT ALLENBY:  Yeah, it is, but I prefer a winning score around 5 under, or even 10 under.  But you know, that's just the way the golf course is set up.  It's set up for scoring.  It's really putting, that's all it comes down to around here.  It's short, it's soft, and just the combination of that just makes it a pretty easy golf course.

But as I said, on Tuesday, the golf course is perfect.  There's a lot of run.  Greens are firm and it would have been a totally different ballgame.  But scoring might have been 10 under leading instead of 17 or 18 or whatever is going to be leading.  I'm just happy to be somewhere around there.  I plan to shoot maybe mid 60s tomorrow or lower and come close.
DAVE SENKO:  Thanks, Robert.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT