WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 24, 2005
Robert Allenby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ROBERT ALLENBY:  That says a lot, 6 under I finished, yeah.  That's if you want to include 9, short par 3.  But I played solid and my bogeys were pretty hard.  You have to make birdies to win.  And then when you add a couple of birdies, you're on top of him.  It felt solid.
Q.  You got that big lead and then you kept it?
ROBERT ALLENBY:  He started making mistakes, and I just kept the pressure on him the whole time and I played solid, hit a lot of fairways and hit a lot of greens.  I hit some world class shots and then I hit some shots that were just good enough to be on the green and just two putted.
Q.  What were the conditions like?
ROBERT ALLENBY:  Disgusting, absolutely disgusting.  If this was a normal tournament, we wouldn't be playing.  There is an advantage because it's a match play format.  You're only playing against your opponent, but it's not real fair out there.  The fairways are just saturated, full of water.  But the greens, I really feel sorry for the guys that are off late today, because the greens are just going to be horrendous.  They're so soft.

You walk on them    I was only the fifth group out and I had Darren Clarke in front of me, and he's got his size 12's.  His heel prints were probably three inches deep.  And there was a couple of holes I had to putt through them, we both did, and it was just    it's luck of the draw this afternoon, that's for sure.
Q.  Have you ever played a competitive round any wetter than this?
ROBERT ALLENBY:  No, this is it.  This is definitely it.  You can't even walk down the fairways.  You've got to walk down the paths.  Poor old Tiger, he won't be able to    he'll come back in a nice sloppy mess.
Q.  Thoughts going into tomorrow?  Who are you playing?
ROBERT ALLENBY:  It will be Clarkie or McDowell.  Clarkie is 1 up right now.  So, it doesn't matter who you play, you've just got to beat them.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT