HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 22, 2009
Briny Baird
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Nice second round.   
 BRINY BAIRD: Thank you. It was a good round. It was a 64. I mean, there's not much I can say. I played very well today.  
  
  Q. A lot of fairways.   
 BRINY BAIRD: Yeah, I hit a lot of fairways. I hit two or three of them inside a foot, so when you can get some nice kick-ins, it adds up quick.  
  
  Q. Only 25 putts, that's a nice number for you.   
 BRINY BAIRD: It definitely is. If I can start having 25 putts on a daily basis, it's going to be a heck of a year.  
  
  Q. How do you like the way this course has matured from a year ago? You guys were kind of tippy-toeing around here, I think, a little bit last year, kind of trying to figure out particularly around the greens, where the undulations were going to throw the ball. Guys seem a little more confident what they're hitting in now.   
 BRINY BAIRD: Yeah, I think any time you play the golf course two, three, four, five more times you become more familiar with it. Whether you like it or not is a totally different subject, but you become more familiar with the golf course and where you can and cannot miss the golf ball.   
 I do like the golf course. It seems to be more shaved around the greens than I remember in years past. That might just be me getting older and lack of memory. But the golf course is there, obviously, if you can shoot 64. But you've got to be really careful because it's pretty easy to shoot a couple over.  
  
  Q. Talk about where you are putter-wise because the last time I talked to you at Hilton Head, it was the longer putter like Cabrera only you were anchoring it and he didn't. Where are you now with putting?   
 BRINY BAIRD: I'm back to the regular putter that I've used for nine or ten years.  
  
  Q. You keep bringing it back?  
 BRINY BAIRD: No doubt. That thing is like a magnet. It just keeps coming back to me. I don't know what I'm going to do.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT