VERIZON HERITAGE
April 19, 2009
Briny Baird
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Your comments on your day today? The breeze is blowing off and on.   
 BRINY BAIRD: Yeah, I played well, I really did. Every facet of the game was nice and solid. Nothing was flamboyant, but all of it was nice and solid, makes for somewhat of a steady wind.  
  
  Q. Did you scoreboard watch at all? Did you know what was going on?  
 BRINY BAIRD: No, once I saw what Brian did. I knew I would have heard the groans. So I glanced up and saw what he did earlier and it was like, you know, it's depressing. And to see where he's at now, it's not depressing anymore, I'm happy for the guy, he's playing phenomenal. And so many guys can lap an unbelievable field like we have here.  
  
  Q. You weren't going to catch him, once you get 1 and 2, that part of it was over?  
 BRINY BAIRD: No, if we were tied going into the day, different story. But trying to come from six back and a guy does that.   
  
  Q. The first week with the long putter, pleased with the trial?  
 BRINY BAIRD: Absolutely. The only reason I went to it is I thought Angel Cabrera won The Masters using a belly putter, and someone told me yesterday he doesn't have a belly. It sure looked like it. It's long, but he doesn't use it as a belly. It was like, I thought you won The Masters putting with a belly putter? I'm like, holy cow, maybe I'll give it a try. What are you going to do?   
  
  Q. Are you going to keep it?  
 BRINY BAIRD: Yeah, I'm going to keep it on the plane, I'm going to go home right now and take next week off and then we'll see.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 BRINY BAIRD: Yeah, looking back on it, I definitely struggled Saturday on to Sunday. It's not fun to do that. It's not fun to even admit that. But when you care about something so much, and you really do want to do something so bad that it's possible to get in your way. I do it time and time again.  
 I played really well this week, from tee-to-green I putted well. I did everything well. And if Brian Gay just decided to take one more week off, we'd be having a good time back there on 18. I think a couple of us lost to Brian.   
  
  Q. Getting out of your own way, playing well with the putter out there, is this a momentum builder for the rest of the year?  
 BRINY BAIRD: I'll answer that question in November. I don't know. It's nice to play well. The last couple of years I've had some really good tournaments, just not enough top-5's. Not enough chances to win tournaments. I never had a chance to win the tournament today, but still playing for a high 5 finish, making some nice putts coming in. It was nice.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT