SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 3, 2008
Briny Baird
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Briny, congratulations. 
 Always a good score with wind coming up 5-under par is going to be a really good score.
 BRINY BAIRD: It was good today. Hopefully coming over the last couple weeks been playing well, not great. Today was no exception.

 Q. Got off to a hot start at the Zurich Classic in New Orleans, ended up tying for 12th.
 BRINY BAIRD: I'm excited the way I'm playing right now. It's close to being really good. I had a really good practice round on Tuesday. Yesterday was a little sloppy just on the range and went out there today, expectations got lowered a little bit. Sometimes that can help you. I wasn't a hundred percent sure on how I was going to be able to hit it or putt it. Very happy with getting in at 5-under.

 Q. I walked the back nine with you. It looked like were you driving the ball good.
 BRINY BAIRD: I drove it real good early. Drove it a little loose in the middle and was able to find something to bring it home the last five, six holes so it was good.

 Q. With this wind, is the golf course starting to play fast?
 BRINY BAIRD: It was already playing fast. They didn't need any wind. Going through the locker room and stuff, you should hear what the guys are saying about the condition of the golf course. Best they've ever seen. That's saying a lot coming from guys playing what we think are perfect conditions every week. The golf course is great.

 Q. The golf course is great, and you brought your A-game here as well. Briny, very good today, especially in the wind. 
 BRINY BAIRD: I'm happy. Anytime you can get in at a 5-under par, especially on a golf course that's somewhat demanding as this one is, very happy.

 Q. Six of your last nine rounds have been in the 60s. What do you attribute to your good play recently? 
 BRINY BAIRD: Not real sure. Nothing in particular. Maybe ate more at PF Chang's.

 Q. Driving the ball well today. What do you see for yourself the rest of the week? How is your game shaping up? 
 BRINY BAIRD: A lot like it was last week. It's close to being really good. Wasn't great last week, by any means. It was a little sloppy, little loose at times, and today was -- I got like that in the middle part of the round but was able to find a nice swing. Thought that brought it home nice.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT