PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY BANCO POPULAR
March 22, 2008
Briny Baird
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   BRINY BAIRD:  A little less windy than the first couple days we played, so it was probably a little easier to shoot three or four under, but the golf course is still tough, it's hard to get the ball close to some of the pins. 

 Q.  Was there any changes (inaudible) Thursday or Friday?  
 BRINY BAIRD:  Are they more difficult today?  Yeah, maybe a little more difficult.  There was a couple that they put in some spots that were hard to get close to, but then again, they put some in some holes. 
 All in all, typical for a Saturday, just a little bit harder than Thursday and Friday. 

 Q.  (Inaudible). 
 BRINY BAIRD:  For the front, yeah, close to the front, close to the bunker.  I found the bunker.  It's -- if you hit a good shot, though, you can still get it close, but it is a little bit more difficult.  Tomorrow's pin, I have already saw where tomorrow's pin is and tomorrow's pin is a little bit easier than today's pin, probably. 

 Q.  (Inaudible). 
 BRINY BAIRD:  I would like to have the win.  Yeah, well, you got to deal with with it because I already know it's going to blow tomorrow about the same as it did today.  So yeah, I am glad the wind is going to blow. 

 Q.  (Inaudible). 
 BRINY BAIRD:  Very good, very difficult PGA Tour event.  Nothing more, nothing less.  Conditions are -- 13 or 14 under, that's about par for how we normally play week after week.  I think the golf course is set up great.  I think everybody's hat is off to the way everybody has set up the golf course. 

 Q.  Briny, what do you think tomorrow is going to be?  Everybody is top 10 (inaudible) I mean, that's got to be kind of -- does it make it any more nerve-wracking than anything else? 
 BRINY BAIRD:  No.  I mean, does it make me more nervous knowing that the other guys behind me and ahead of me haven't won a PGA Tour event?  No, it would make me really nervous if there was one other guy in the field. 
 No, the guys that have won, you know, are still going to go out there and they are going to be at the top of their game, and they are going to need to be prepared to play tomorrow and they are going to need to play well. 
 Guys that haven't won, same thing, they are going to have to go out there and play well.  You can make it as simple as you want.  Some guys will handle it better than others, and we will see who they are tomorrow. 

 Q.  (Inaudible). 
 BRINY BAIRD:  Pin conditions aren't going to be easier tomorrow.  I saw the number 18 hole pin position, there is a little dot on the green, and I saw where it's going to be tomorrow.  Seemed to be an easier pin to get the ball close to than today.  That's all.  Don't misinterpret what I said.  I don't want them changing all the pins and putting them on knobs. 

 Q.  (Inaudible). 
 BRINY BAIRD:  You know, when it's done, what's leading, 13, 14? 

 Q.  13. 
 BRINY BAIRD:  13.  You know, it could be 14 might win, or it could be 18, 19 or even 20.  With that many guys, you know it's not going to win.  12 is not going to win, and 13 is not going to win, I can promise you that. 
 If I had to set a number, somewhere in the 17, 18 would probably be a good number, but with a couple holes to play, you look up on the leaderboard and someone is at 20, obviously, 18 -- 

 Q.  (Inaudible). 
 BRINY BAIRD:  No, no, I can only play as good as I can play tomorrow.  I can't go out there firing at pins if I am not feeling good with my swing.  I can't start being making par from three feet back if I am not feeling good with my putter.  Things like that are dictated almost shot by shot, how you feel with each swing, so I can't trust -- I don't believe in the mind-set you got to go out there and try to be aggressive.  That can backfire real quick.  You make a couple bogeys early knowing you need to shoot low, and boom, now you are done. 

 Q.  (Inaudible). 
 BRINY BAIRD:  Yes, absolutely.  I believe it.  Wind, it's dried out, we have finally seen the sun, I think we are seeing the typical Puerto Rican weather now, not so overcast like it's been the first few days. 

 Q.  (Inaudible). 
 BRINY BAIRD:  Same holes.  You just know you need to land the ball a little bit shorter.  You know, it's harder even when you are hitting a sand wedge.  I hit a sand wedge into 17 and you knew if you didn't land it 10 yards short, there was no way you were going to get close.  That's a long way short to be hitting a sand wedge, so -- 

 Q.  How different is number 9 (inaudible)? 
 BRINY BAIRD:  The wind is not as much in today.  When it blows out of the east, it's not as bad.  I forget if it's either southeast or northeast, like it has been the first couple days, it would have been really tough if we would have played the back tee.  Some guys maybe would have had trouble reaching the fairway.  In the practice round, I barely got to the fairway in the practice round.  It was blowing almost straight in. 
 With the way the wind was today, it wasn't a huge deal.  Some of the other holes, though, for sure. 

 Q.  Briny, or (inaudible) is it a continuation of that? 
 BRINY BAIRD:  No, I have played fairly well this year.  I haven't done anything unbelievable, but I have had some good rounds, and I have had some not-so-good rounds.  This week I have played well, probably not quite as well today.  I got the ball into the hole okay today.  300 today is a pretty good score.  But no, I have played okay this year. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT