BUICK OPEN
August 3, 2003
Briny Baird
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TODD BUDNICK:  We have Briny Baird after a final round of 66.  He finished tied for second, also to tie his best career finish which he did at the John Deere Classic two years ago, I believe.  Briny, no bogeys today, four birdies, an eagle.  You played well today. 

BRINY BAIRD:   Definitely, I played pretty much like I played yesterday.  Some people call it boring.  I hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens, made a couple putts.  Next thing I knew, I was done.  It was pretty much that easy.  My caddie said I only made one bogey all week.  I know I didn't make a bogey the second, the third or the fourth round, so definitely solid playing for me. 


Q.  It's tough, you shoot 6-under 66, it looks like you still fall two, maybe three strokes behind the winner.  You've really got to go low to catch a guy when he's playing that well.

BRINY BAIRD:   Obviously, Jim Furyk is a great player, and any time you're spotting someone four shots, that's a lot to make up on this golf course if they play well.  I could have gone out there and shot  --  it was out there.  I shot 6 ( -under).  It was out there for 8- , 9-under.  That's all I've got to say about that. 

You want to talk about football?  (Laughter.)


Q.  You're having your best year, how do you explain that, is that just a matter of maturing as a player, getting more experienced? 

BRINY BAIRD:   Pure luck.  Just pure luck. 

Yeah, I think it's just a matter of experience, getting better.  Just experience.  There's no secret to it.  I'm not hitting any straighter or anything like that.  It's just you get a little more at ease with yourself. 

TODD BUDNICK:  Let's go through your round. 

BRINY BAIRD:   I birdied 1.  Hit a really good drive and a 3-wood right to the middle of the green.   Left the putt about a foot short.  Tapped in for birdie. 

5, I hit a good drive and a little chip 7-iron, not a real good 7-iron, to 25 feet, good putt.  Knocked that in. 

The eagle, hit just an okay drive and a 3-wood right to the center of the green to about maybe 25 feet.  Got lucky and made that. 

12, short hole.  I think a lot of guys will probably be hitting driver there.  Laid up all week and hit a 5-wood, sand wedge just behind the hole and brought it back to about eight feet, perfect. 

15, hit a good drive on 15 and a 9-iron to about,a, another one, about 25 feet.  Made that. 


Q.  What sort of number did you have in mind? 

BRINY BAIRD:   20.  I thought 20 would be a good number to be at.  There's only so much that you can do when you're four shots off the lead.  I thought if I got to 20, it would be a good place to be and I thought I might get into a playoff.


Q.  How hard has Jim Furyk become to catch as a front runner?  Seems to me he's become one of the better front runners out here.

BRINY BAIRD:   Yeah, well, it's only my second,  second place, so it's not like I've had that much experience trying to catch Jim Furyk. 

Yeah, he's a great come-from-behind player.  He's a great in-front player.  He's just a great player. 


Q.  Your golf bag always carries a picture on it.  Can you explain that?

BRINY BAIRD:   Yeah, Canon is doing stuff for the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children.  Someone at Canon came up with the idea to approach me and asked me if they  -- they proposed that idea to me.  Obviously, like I tell anybody, anybody with a heartbeat would say yes to something like that.  It was easy to say yes to and it works out great.  The money that is raised especially on a week like this, I don't know how many birdies I made and a couple eagles, but it's $100 for every birdie I make and $250 for every eagle, for the entire year, is donated to the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children.  The number, 1-800-THE-LOST on the bag gets out to a lot of people.  It's awesome. 

TODD BUDNICK:  Congratulations on a good finish. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT