BUICK OPEN
August 2, 2003
Briny Baird
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BRINY BAIRD: Tomorrow, I'm going to try to approach tomorrow like any other round.  I have had some good tournaments this year, a few top tens.  I'm going to try to approach tomorrow just like I did those events, play a solid round.  If it happens to be low enough to win the event, I'll try to approach it as normal as possible.  Kind of a boring answer, but hopefully I'll make tomorrow boring. 


Q.  Are you surprised how far you jumped up the leaderboard?

BRINY BAIRD: No, they're not done.  I haven't looked recently, but I knew finishing at 13 was going to be in good shape.  No matter what, I knew it wasn't going to be in the lead or even within a couple of the lead.  By the end of the day, if I'm within two of the lead, I will be surprised.  I think the real bunch-up is going to be at 13 and 12 and 11, so it is going to be really jammed up at 11, 12, 13, 14, 15. 


Q.  (Inaudible)?

BRINY BAIRD: Well, I don't think it was much of an advantage.  I think there was only an hour and a half of tee times on both tees.  So, I don't think it was that big of an advantage when I teed off.  There wasn't obviously all the hoopla that goes along with playing with one of the last groups.  Maybe that's an advantage.  The weather is still the same now as when I finished.  I don't think it's going to play that big of an effect. 

MODERATOR:  Let's go through your birdies. 

(Score card done.)

MODERATOR:  A couple more questions. 


Q.  What's going to be your mind-set for tomorrow morning going off the first tee?

BRINY BAIRD: Well, hopefully it will be tomorrow afternoon, but try to approach it like any other round.  There is  -- try to make it as -- downplay it as much as possible.  It's just another round.  You try to do that as much as possible.  I need to go out there, and if I don't shoot minimum 5 under tomorrow -- actually, I think it's going to take another 6, possibly a 7 under round to win the event.  It is not like I'm sitting on anything and having to answer questions about being in the lead.  I'm not. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT