OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 27, 2012
Ed Warriner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		  THE MODERATOR:   We'll stick with the same format.   We're going to go with Ed Warinner for about seven or eight minutes and then we'll do a little breakout session on the atrium for about seven or eight minutes there as well. 

Q.   Big battle at right tackle.   Reid Fragel is at right tackle.   Could you talk about that position and how close it is, was?
ED WARINNER:   Yeah, we've had a great battle at the right tackle position all during training camp.   Reid Fragel and Taylor Decker both can be good players for us.   Reid is just a little bit ahead. 
He'll get the nod for this Saturday as a starter and anticipate Taylor being in the game, contributing and he would be the first guy in the game at right tackle or left tackle, Taylor.   So he works both sides.   So he's kind of our swing guy. 
So he would be our third tackle right now.   But still very close race there in terms of there isn't a lot of separation there.   Reid's a little older and more veteran and a little more ready to go.

Q.   Urban raves about Corey Linsley, and he's done it for a while.   What is maybe from your first experience to him with him to now, what is so different about Corey?   What has made him a better player and a better leader? 
ED WARINNER:   Well, I think the thing that Corey's done is that he's accepted the new regime, accepted the way that the program is run and really embraced it and he's a very hard worker.   He's totally committed turnaround in his life and so forth in terms of the past and moving forward.   A very blue‑collar guy that just trains hard in the weight room, practices hard.   Very physical. 
So he's more of a leader by his example of great effort, great energy, competitor.   He's playing really well, too, besides that fact. 
So you just like a guy who comes in and says, hey, whatever you want me to do, whatever I need to do, whatever changes are made, there's no looking back.   So pretty pleased with that. 
And he's a center.   So he makes a lot of decisions.   And making those decisions are important.   And he's done a good job with learning the system and spent a lot of time extra on his own working on things, film, studying. 
So just‑‑ he's totally embraced the new offense and his role and done a great job with it.

Q.   Urban was talking earlier about all access thing and a while ago about sort of a culture change from an offensive standpoint of not accepting we'll punt and get back at them next time.   How did you get that across to your offensive line more the urgency aspect of things from the offensive standpoint?
ED WARINNER:   It's just the approach that we take every day in everything we do.   I mean, we're not‑‑ we're going to try to be the aggressor on offense, not just try to ease our way into it and see what the defense does and try to play it off of that.   We'll try to take the game to people and be aggressive. 
Our tempo helps us do that.   Our commitment that a drive isn't successful unless we can get it in position to score.   And things like that just really pushing the guys to have high standards that‑‑

Q.   Did you need that a little bit of kick in the rear end for the offense?
ED WARINNER:   Oh, I think so.   I think that there needs to be a transformation there from previous, new style, new way of doing business, new philosophy and hopefully like I said an aggressive approach in all phases, run, pass game, attacking people and saying, hey, you know, we're coming after you.

Q.   How much of that we're not going to react to what they do is a function of that being your philosophy and how much of that is a function of it being this time of year where you might not know as much about an opponent?
ED WARINNER:   Well, I think that‑‑ I think my point in saying that is you always react as a coach as the game progresses to what a defense does.   But you don't ease‑‑ we're not going to ease into games where we're just going to come out and just pound a few up the middle and be real conservative and then kind of see how they're playing us and then we'll start to pick it up after that.
I mean, that's not going to be our approach at all.   We're going to come out and go play fast and go play hard.   So I think that some of the things that playing an opponent that has a new defensive coordinator that you haven't played that you don't have game film on except from last year and with a new coordinator, there can be and probably will be some changes.   So we have to be really sharp as coaches to sideline adjustments and what we project them to do might be different than what they actually do, we'll adjust to that as quickly as we can on the fly but we're not going to go into it with an ease our way into it approach.

Q.   I'm just wondering, did you have to overcome a certain hesitance on the upper classmen in particular who had done things a certain way for a long time.   It's only natural for people to get into a routine to think this is the way we do things.   I'm assuming that you wanted a new offense, new approach, new attack, new way of thinking.   Did you have to kind of pull them away from that holding on what had been done in the past? 
ED WARINNER:   We didn't feel that at all.   We didn't feel like there was a strong resistance in changing the culture of how we were going to play football on offense.   I think the kids embraced it.
I think they understood the success that Coach Meyer had had and his offense system has worked well everywhere he's been; that maybe based on the previous year change was needed and it was time and let's all dive in feet first and go. 
And I think everybody did.   I don't think anybody‑‑ I didn't feel any resistance from our quarterback, our offensive line, any of our players.   Most of them were pretty excited about it.   I mean, the fact that maybe we'll run 25 more plays on offense with some tempo.   Maybe the ball will be thrown a little bit more.   It will be spread around.   Just a whole different excitement to the offense.
So I think the players embraced it and have really been good.   And just coaching my position, in particular, obviously completely different schemes and techniques and there wasn't any pushback on, well, I started here the last two years, this is how I do this. 
And there wasn't any of that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT