WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 19, 2017
Davis Love, III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Looks like you had it going on the front-9 there.  
DAVIS LOVE, III: Yeah.  The front-9 was great.  I made a bogey, hit one bad shot into 6 but other than that, I hit shots good on the front and then the back, had a couple unforced errors and just was kind of out of position it felt like the whole back-9 even though I was swinging good, just missed the fairway or hit a flyer over the green or just kept being kind of out of position when the whole week I've been on every green just about and the back-9 I wasn't.   
But, still feeling good.  I'm confident.  I got in the bunker on 18 which was still thinking about making it.  Hit a good bunker shot and I hate to be that far back after the way I've been hitting it but still got a chance tomorrow.   
 Q.  Did you see Dru's score at the turn?  
DAVIS LOVE, III: I think on the board like on 11 or 12, I saw his score, felt bad for him.  Kind of a bummer.  He's been hitting it great, too.   
Not quite finishing off the rounds.  Like 14 and 15 have killed me.  I don't even want the look to see what I am on 14 and 15, probably 2-over on those holes and they're not that hard.   
I just got to keep it going on the back-9 tomorrow and like I did -- or two years ago and get off to a hot start and keep it going.   
 Q.  Ultimately you got a chance and that's what you want going into Sunday.  
DAVIS LOVE, III: Yeah.  I got a chance.  There's a lot of guys have a chance, though, unfortunately.  Obviously 31 on the front I put myself in a good position to shoot a good score on the back and got in the lead, but always nice to have a chance.   
 Q.  This course, low scores, trying to draw a comparison in other sports, it's almost like a Home Run Derby when guys are hitting bombs --  
DAVIS LOVE, III: You got to make a lot of birdies, for sure.  Webb made a bunch the first two days and even made a bunch of bogies, too, but you can just -- you can get them a bunch in a row and shoot like he did, 28, you can shoot really low on any 9.   
The greens are soft.  The course is in great shape.  So, it's out there for the taking.  Maybe I can get a few groups ahead of him and throw in a low one and sneak up on him.   
 Q.  Davis, the golf ball doesn't know how old you are but people talk about Sam Snead and all that and the record.  I'm sure you must have met him and --  
JOHNSON WAGNER: I spent a lot of time with him actually because he was doing a bunch of Golf Digest stuff when my dad was teaching and I had a lot of summers in Pinehurst where I got to hang out with Sam and actually play and work with him when he was -- I was kind of like his caddy a lot during Golf Digest School.   
I was very blessed.  When I started playing on the Tour when he would be around the Masters or somewhere he would come and watch me hit balls and talk to me.  It was -- my dad gave me so much but things like that are just incredible that I got to spend time with him and he gave me some tips and some lessons but some inspiration.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT