WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2017
Davis Love, III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DAVIS LOVE, III: I hit the ball really well.  I didn't hit it quite as good yesterday.  I missed two greens today.  I hit them all yesterday.
Obviously my iron play is pretty good.  If I get it in the fairway I'm getting it on the green or getting it close, giving myself lots of chances.
And difference today, I just -- I made one bogey missing a green and didn't make quite as many putts.  You know, 10-under after two days on this course is good.
Q. When it's bunched up like this going into Saturday, what is your mindset?
DAVIS LOVE, III: Got to keep going.  You always see somebody in the morning shoot a really low score.  You're going to have to keep trying to make birdies, keep it in the fairways and just stick with the game plan.
We've seen Webb, he's whatever he is, tied for the lead.  He's made a bunch of bogies.  You can make a whole lot of birdies out there.  Got to be patient and take them when you can get them.
And I haven't done very well on the par-5s but you got to take advantage of the opportunities that it gives you and you're going to get a bunch of chances, be patient.
Q. Birdie on 18, that obviously set you up.
DAVIS LOVE, III: Yeah.  I hadn't been -- I didn't play the back that well.  I started real well on the front and missed a green with a 7-iron at 14 and missed the green with a 5-iron at 15 and made two 5s in a row.
Then didn't give myself really great looks at it at 16 and 17.  Nice to finish with a birdie.  And my son I said, "Watch out for that pin on 18.  It's back in the corner."  He goes, "If you just drive it way down there and hit a 9-iron you can birdie it."
I did that.  The young aggressive kid helped me out on the last hole.
Q. How important to keep working on the game to perform at high level?  I saw you working on the range last week, actually.
DAVIS LOVE, III: I've been working hard.  This is 6 out of 7 weeks I've played.  I'm working hard on my game, trying -- and my health.
If I was either not quite as stiff and tight or if I was a little bit younger I feel like I could still play with these guys.  But I'm getting better.
Seems like the distance is coming back more and more and basically a year since my really big surgery.  I'm kind of still in the comeback stage but I'm feeling good about my game and excited about it.
Q. This hot weather help?
DAVIS LOVE, III: I haven't found anything that really helps.  The perfect temperature, I don't know what it is.  It doesn't hurt for sure.  You stay loose.  It's easy to warm up.  You didn't have to hit a lot of balls to get going.
The boys in the fitness truck and my trainers at home are the ones keeping me going because it takes a lot at 53 no matter if you're healthy or not.  Little bit stiff.  You have to stay after it.
Q. Still with Rotella?
DAVIS LOVE, III: Yeah.  I saw him last week.  Maybe that's why I'm doing a little bit better this week.  I stick with the same things.  I stick with Jack Lumpkin, Bob Rotella, Randy Myers, my trainer.  I need to do a better job.  They're really good.  I need to work a little harder on what they tell me.  I'll be fine.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT