WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2017
Davis Love, III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Davis Love, how about the fact you can't even get your glove dry?  
DAVIS LOVE, III: I went through a few gloves today, which I normally don't do.  I like to use one glove, especially when you're making birdies, you don't want to switch.   
It was as I humid as I've ever seen it out here.  Very, very still and usually a breeze blows and cools you off.  A hot day.  I was with a hot player.  Webb got off to a great start and kind of spurred the whole group on.   
 Q.  You sort of flew under the radar and very well organized round.  
DAVIS LOVE, III: Pretty good.  I hit a lot of greens.  I missed a couple fairways and a couple just in the first cut but hit the ball pretty solid and made a few putts.  I made one long putt, couple nice short putts for par and good solid day, no bogies.   
 Q.  Coming back to Sedgefield, getting the juices flowing?  
DAVIS LOVE, III: I've been playing a lot lately.  Fred Couples, "Seems like Davis plays every week."  I have.  I played 6, 7 weeks and my game is in pretty good shape.  I didn't do well on that big golf course last week in Charlotte but other than that I've been playing some decent golf and not getting great results until today.  No bogies and didn't make a whole lot of mistakes.  Feeling pretty good about it.   
 Q.  Go get some AC.  
DAVIS LOVE, III: That you.   
 Q.  How many greens did you miss today?  Great playing.  
DAVIS LOVE, III: I don't know.  Officially not many, though.  Zero?   
 Q.  Zero.  
DAVIS LOVE, III: Yeah.  I missed a couple par-5s.  I had a 4-iron and 7-iron in on par-5s and didn't hit the greens.   
But, yeah, I hit a lot of greens and rolling pretty good.  Made one long putt and a couple nice short putts for par when I needed to.  Good solid day.   
 Q.  Do you feel this good about your game?  
DAVIS LOVE, III: You know, pretty good.  I've been playing a lot.  Played 6 out of 7 weeks and other than that big long golf course in Charlotte, I felt pretty good about my game and, you know Ryan Moore reminded me after a couple holes today, he said, "You know, last time we played together it was a Sunday and you won."  I want to play more with Ryan Moore.   
I've been feeling pretty good about it.  When I go to Hilton Head or The Players, Ponte Vedra or come here I get good feelings about it.  Tend to play well at the same places over and over again.  I like old, solid golf courses.  This really suits me.   
 Q.  Davis, get some comments on round.  
DAVIS LOVE, III: Yeah, good start.  Webb got off to a great start making a bunch of birdies early and I love playing this golf course.  It's been great to me over the years and, you know, in the morning no wind, soft greens, it was there for the taking today.   
 Q.  What is it about this course you love?  
DAVIS LOVE, III: I like old style golf courses, traditional architecture.  This is certainly one of the best on Tour.  This one and Greenbrier are two of my favorite courses now on Tour and it's not a bomber's golf course.  It's one where you have to think your way around it, put in the right positions.   
Even on 5, par-5 you have to hit it on the right side of the fairway to shoot at the pin and I hit it on the left side of the fairway.  It's a shotmaker's golf course and I'm hitting the ball pretty well and length is not a requirement here, you don't have to bomb it to be successful.  That certainly helps me at 53 years old.   
 Q.  Where were you in your recovery this time last year, what were you doing last year?  
 A
Crutches.  I came up for a couple days.  I felt bad not being the defending champion and Ryan Moore reminded me I think the 2nd hole today, "Hey, last time we played together here you shot a low score and won."   
 I shot another low score with him.  I like to keep playing with him for awhile.  Just good memories when you come back and kind of almost a second chance as defending champion for me this week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT