THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 7, 2017
Davis Love, III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Davis, that 63 in the first round, how do you feel you followed it up in the second round at the Greenbrier Classic?
DAVIS LOVE, III: Score-wise not well.  Hit a lot good shots today and hit the wrong club a couple times and didn't hit it quite as close.  Although I had two kick-ins, I had a lot that I didn't get close to the hole.
And then missed a few greens from the middle of the fairway or on par-3s that was disappointing.  But, feel like I am still playing well, rolling the ball well.  I misread a couple putts.  Yesterday they all went in or I cozied them up there close; today my speed was a little bit off on some long ones.  I had three three-putts, and that was really the distance?
Q. The total amount of birdies has to be encouraging.  As you said, on 2, I don't know, you hit it to about three, four inches.
DAVIS LOVE, III: Yeah, it was either right by the hole or long way from the hole.  Wasn't much in between.  Didn't get a whole lot of 10- or 15 footers, but when I hit a good shot it went close.  When I hit a good drive usually I gave myself an opportunity.
No. 8 I hit the wrong club.  It was a great 4-iron, just the wrong club.  Over the flag; three-putt.  Those kinds of things are kind of disappointing when you know you're playing well.
But I did make enough birdies, and hopefully on the weekend I can get rid of the bogeys and hang in there.
Q. Yeah, right in the mix.  How are you feeling, a 53 year old mixing it up with these guys and chasing a championship here at the Greenbrier?
DAVIS LOVE, III: Well, I'm chasing a lot of things:  FedEx points and trying to get in the Open Championship and trying to get back in the winner's circle.  I've been working hard the last three or four weeks just trying to get myself and my game in shape well enough to compete.
Guys keep saying, When you going to the Champions Tour?  I don't want to go quite yet full time.  I know the time is coming, but I'm enjoying my time out here and want to see if I can still compete.
Q. Few bogeys on the front nine there, your back nine of the day.  Tripped you up a little bit.  You bounced back from most.
DAVIS LOVE, III: Yeah, I made a lot of birdies and a lot of bogeys, unfortunately.  I got it in under par, but I really played probably better than that.  Three three-putts is disappointing.  The greens aren't that big, but had three long putts that yesterday even looked like they were going in or I had tap-ins.
I left a few of them, you know, four-, five-footers coming back short.  Three-putts kill you.  That just ruined my momentum.  Hit a few bad shots from the middle of the fairway on par-3s that hurt me, so a little disappointing.
But I'm still in it.  I think if you would've told me on Monday when I got here, You'll be right in the middle of it going into the weekend, I would've taken it.
Q. Your personal expectations for your own game coming into a week like this, what are they?
DAVIS LOVE, III: Well, I've been pointing the last three or four weeks to play this one and the next week to try get in the British Open.  Obviously try to get out here and compete.  I put a lot of time in trying get my game in shape.
Nice that it's starting to pay off, and looking forward to the rest of the summer.
Q. Does it feel like it's going to evolve into perhaps a birdiefest on the weekend, or is it something you just stay the course?
DAVIS LOVE, III: Well, I think if you're in the fairways, you got a chance to make birdies.  If you're out of fairways, you good chance to make bogey.
Yeah, there will be some birdies.  Will it be a runaway 59 again?  I don't think so.  You have to be too precise into the greens.  The greens are firming up and you still have to hit really good shots to hit it close.
I think tucked pins on the weekend, I think you'll still see only low 60s scores, but not a whole lot them.
Q. How important not to ley Sebastian run away?  He's within shouting distance anyway, right?
DAVIS LOVE, III: Yeah, you know, after shooting 7-under yesterday, I would much rather be 10- or 12-under for sure.
But, long way to go.  He's got to play a long way and we got to play a long way.  Four shots is not that much with 36 to go.
Q. You get the juices flowing again when you get close like you did at Wyndham and you start feeling that edge again?
DAVIS LOVE, III: I'm always excited to go play.  Sometimes I put too much pressure on myself and try too hard.  I'm always excited to get out and play.
It's nice when you start off the week with a chance.  I feel like I'm in it, so that gets me going and puts a little more bounce in my step.
People even question that I can make it around 18 holes carrying a golf bag at the U.S. Open.  I go, I'm old but not done yet.  I can get around.  Walk in a place like this, a great golf course, playing well, gives you a lot of energy.
Q. Feel that you still have a little bit of an imposing menace on some these young rookies?
DAVIS LOVE, III: I used to smash it by them and intimidate them.  I don't do that anymore.  Sure, there might be some guys that might be just uncomfortable playing with me, just like I was uncomfortable playing with Ben Crenshaw when I came out.  Even though he was one of the nicest guys on tour, I was still nervous playing with a legend like Ben Crenshaw.
After a while we seemed to get used to it.  These guys are pros and they're ready to go.  I don't see anybody up there on the leaderboard (indiscernible) played one hole with Munoz in a practice round when we were headed to the 10th tee, so I met him.  Hopefully I can catch him and get in the last group with him on Sunday.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT