SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
March 30, 2017
Davis Love, III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How did it feel out there?
DAVIS LOVE III: You know, good.  I'm still trying to come back from the hip surgery.
A
The shoulder is just a delay on that, really, but shoulder is perfect.  I'm a little stiff in my back and hip, but didn't have my speed yet from not playing, but I haven't played much since July so -- or --
Q. Was it July?
DAVIS LOVE III: Yeah, July.  I'm happy to be back and probably take me awhile to get up to speed, you know.
Q. How much have you been to practice the last few weeks leading into this?
DAVIS LOVE III: Well, I've hit balls the last six weeks, probably full shots, just gradually more and more.  But only in the last couple of weeks started playing 18 holes and going -- they cut me loose about, I guess, two weeks ago to go ahead and start hitting as many balls as I wanted rather than being on a pitch count.
Q. No ill effects from the shoulder injury?
DAVIS LOVE III: No.  You know, they said this is going to be the easiest rehab you've ever done because it's broken, you broke it so bad we had to screw it back together, and once it's healed it's healed.  So, I think I'm better in my shoulders and my back than I was before because I had to do a lot of rehab on it.
But not playing and not being able to be active as much as I wanted probably slowed down my -- my hip recovery wasn't great.  You saw me struggle through Vegas and -- in the last year I wasn't quite ready to go.  I was hoping that, you know, January was going to be a fresh start, but obviously slowed me down a little bit.
Q. Intentionally wrecked your snowboard?
DAVIS LOVE III: I was on my way to Hawaii when we were in Idaho.  My hip was feeling better.
Q. Were you jumping or what happened?
DAVIS LOVE III: I was on the easiest part of the mountain trying to get to the steep part.  Just goofing around, you know, kicking your tail around and pushing the piles over and skipping back and forth, in and out of the run, but I really literally was, I don't know, 500 yards to the steep place we were going.
Q. Then did you --
DAVIS LOVE III: He's standing there, what did you do?
Q. Did they take you down in a toboggan?
DAVIS LOVE III: I wouldn't do it.  Dru said, "Call ski patrol."  No.  No.  I know some of those guys.  Not in the sled.
Q. He said, "What are you doing, quit screwing around"?
DAVIS LOVE III: Yes.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT