ROLAND GARROS
May 29, 2016
Viktor Troicki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. WAWRINKA/V. Troicki
7-6, 6-7, 6-3, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Apologizes for the loss.  Want to ask you about one of the Australians you've been practicing with in recent weeks, Bernard Tomic.  Just wondering if you could talk about what he's like to practice with and what improvements you've seen in his game in recent weeks.
VIKTOR TROICKI: I know Bernie for a long time.  He's a great mate.  He was for the first time in Belgrade now after Rome.  He asked if I was going to be there so we could practice together.
So he really took it really seriously the like seven days he was there.  He was there with the coach.  His fitness coach, I mean, he's from Belgrade, Ivan, so that's why he came there.  They worked really hard.
Belgrade is really famous for night life and I thought Bernie was going to go out every night.  No.  He was quiet and he didn't want to go anywhere.  He was tired every day and went to early to sleep, which is a great thing for him.
He was really pumped for this tournament.  He worked really hard to bring his best game here, even though clay is definitely his weakest surface.  But he was focused for this tournament.
Unlucky he lost to Coric in a tight match.  I think he played already.  I saw him play.  He was fighting.  I think he'll be much more dangerous player for the grass court season.
Q. There has been an impression that - and so far he's only 23 years old - but he might be a bit of an unfulfilled talent to this point.  The way you've seen him work in the past couple weeks, you feel like this could be the year where he really starts to make the most of that talent, especially going into the grass court season where he enjoys it more than the clay?
VIKTOR TROICKI: Well, I mean, he came on the tour really young, and I think Tennis Australia and Australia in general spoiled him a bit, you know.  He got a lot in the start, more than any other player, I would say, in recent times.
He likes to enjoy a little bit life, which is fine.  He's a really talented player.  I think he can be a great player, but he's now realizing that time is ticking and that he needs to be more serious about stuff that he does.
Yeah, I think he's dangerous when he plays good.  He's really very talented.  Once he's doing the right things and doing everything correct, I think he's going to be even better and he's going to improve even more.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT