APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 16, 2016
Viktor Troicki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
V. TROICKI/G. Dimitrov   
2-6, 6-1, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How do you feel?  How does that victory feel?  
VIKTOR TROICKI: Yeah, I think was very tough match.  Got to admit that I felt in the start a bit tired from yesterday.  I had a long day yesterday.  Six sets.  I started a bit slower and he played amazing in the start.   
Was great tennis what he played in the start and he didn't give me a chance.  I was like, Okay, this is not going to last too long if I don't change it.   
Luckily I raised my energy and started playing better tennis.  He started missing in second set and gave me a chance to come back.   
Then third set it was open.  I mean, I was serving on 5-4.  I don't know what happened there.  Just glad at the end.  Could have gone either way.  I was maybe a bit more fortunate to win in the end.   
It was good tennis, and just I'm overwhelmed but also tired to express it.  I'm really tired.  Nine sets in two days, it's been tough.   
Yeah, luckily I play only on Tuesday in Melbourne, so I have two days to recover.   
 Q.  Was it enjoyable to play such a tight third set?  Stressful?  Nerve wracking?  
VIKTOR TROICKI: Stressful.  I got to admit it's stressful.  This was I believe my eighth final, and I never had it this close, this tight.   
I got to say it was tough to play it, but I managed to keep calm in most important points.  I could have maybe managed to do better when I was serving for it.  Yeah, sometimes it happens.  You got to make it more complicated.   
But, yeah, it's great to win again, second year in a row.  I love this tournament.  This was my third final, second title, and it's great feeling.  It's great to win in the start of the year, to start with such a confidence the year.   
Hopefully I continue to play good.  I really believe I can play good tennis, and I hope I prove it this year.   
 Q.  How did you manage to hold your nerve in the third set?  It was very up and down.  
VIKTOR TROICKI: I don't know.  He had a lot of chances.  I did, too, but I think in the start he had more.  Luckily, I don't know, serve saved me in those crucial moments.  I played some smart, smart points also.   
Yeah, one ball decided the match.  It was my favorite shot of all at the end to win it.  So many times that shot brought me a lot of happiness.  That's how I won the Davis Cup title, my last point.  So, yeah, it's really great to have a title already in the year.   
 Q.  All is forgiven after yesterday having to play on the outside courts?  
VIKTOR TROICKI: Well, yeah, it was a tough schedule, I mean, for all of us.  Was unfortunate to play outside two matches, but I'm happy now that I won.   
 Q.  Come back next year?  
VIKTOR TROICKI: Definitely.  Got to go for a third one, I guess.  (Laughter.)   
Been great playing here.  All the people who came, all the people that support this event, all the organizers, it's lovely tournament.  I really like it.  It's a great city, one of the best cities in the world.   
It's a joy playing here.  It's a lovely stadium.  I really like it.  I would love to come back.   
 Q.  How good does it feel to score a win over Dimitrov for the first time?  
VIKTOR TROICKI: Yeah, I mean, first time when we played few years ago I had no chances.  He just destroyed me, I would say.  Last week in Brisbane I think I had him.  I was set and break up; 4-3 in the second set serving, and I should have close it out.  He risk in those moments and started playing better.   
I won in the end.  I believed I could do it, I had game to beat him.  That's what I believed today.  But it was tough one.  He's a great player.  Top 10 for sure.  One of the, yeah, promising guys in the future for the top.   
Very talented and very athletic.  Great player.  It was a tough battle, and I'm glad that I won for sure the first time.   
 Q.  To win a final like that, how much confidence does it give you going forward?  
VIKTOR TROICKI: A lot.  I couldn't imagine what would have happened if I lost today.  It would've been just crazy to recover from it.   
Yeah, like this it's great.  Still cannot show my emotions because I'm really tired.  I feel really exhausted.  I don't know how long the match was, but I just felt it was lasting forever.  I think I ran a lot during these two days.   
I feel I need some time off.  (Laughter.)  But I cannot have it because I'm playing already Melbourne.  Flying already in the morning.  Got to get ready for that one.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT