WIMBLEDON
July 6, 2015
Viktor Troicki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. POSPISIL/V. Troicki
  4‑6, 6‑7, 6‑4, 6‑3, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Where did it go wrong for you?   Can you pinpoint what exactly happened?   Seemed like two sets up you were very much in control. 
VIKTOR TROICKI:   Yeah, it seemed like it, and third set also I thought I had everything under control, but then he was switching his return position.   He stepped back a lot, and that made me maybe go more for the serve and risk it more.   He got to return better off the back of the court and, yeah, took his chances. 
He was serving unbelievable.   I didn't have much chances on his serve.   I mean, percentage was very high off of the first serve.   He didn't have like unbelievable numbers of aces, but he had great percentage of serves and great angles.   He served throughout the whole match unbelievable.
In the end he played more aggressively, took his chances and played more aggressive than me.

Q.   First game of the fourth set was a bad game for you.   Broken right away?
VIKTOR TROICKI:   Yes, it was.

Q.   If you could have stayed with him in the fourth, looked like you had a chance to get back into it?
VIKTOR TROICKI:   Well, already on 4‑All the game that I had 30‑Love, that was also bad game to lose.   I mean, I would take that one back probably more than the first one in the fourth, but maybe lack of concentration and lack of focusness. 
Right now I don't really know what happened in that point, but yeah.   I mean, he also played well.   It's not that I played bad.   He played good in this one.

Q.   Second match in a row he's gotten stronger toward the end.   Did you feel him getting better as the match went on?
VIKTOR TROICKI:   Oh, yeah.   Especially the serve.   And also he was going in, risking more, and that paid off.   He made some important shots he made in.   That made a difference.

Q.   At the start of the match or before there seemed to be some issue with the balls.   Can you explain?   You seemed unhappy with the balls they were giving you.   What was that about?
VIKTOR TROICKI:   I don't know what you're talking about. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT