APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 17, 2015
Viktor Troicki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. TROICKI/M. Kukushkin
  6‑2, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Congrats on winning a big title again.   How happy are you?   
VIKTOR TROICKI:   Very.   (Laughter.)   Very happy.   Yeah, a lot of emotions actually.   It's been a tough road, a lot of work, and it paid off with a nice title.   
If I look back where I was like five, six months ago it's amazing to have a title already.   So it's really nice moment for me and for all my team.   I really‑‑ it's very emotional.   Yeah, that's all I can say.  
   
 Q.   It took you a long time to win your first title, first part of your career.   Now you come back, and I think this one is even more important.   
VIKTOR TROICKI:   Yeah, when I was starting again, when I got back, I looked on this like a second chance, second career actually.   It's been nice, a nice comeback.   It's been different playing tennis ever since I came back.   I'm more happy on the court.   I enjoy a lot of things on the court.  
It's definitely more nicer to play now than before.   Yeah, as I said, it's been great.   I had a great week behind me, and it's just everything was really satisfying for me.  
So I'm going happy to Melbourne where I have my next match already on Monday, and I will try to continue playing good tennis, as I did here.   
   
 Q.   How nervous were you?   How much did nerves come into your...   
VIKTOR TROICKI:   Not too much.   One point on match I got not nervous, but, you know, he broke my rhythm a little bit at 4‑1 in the second set.   He took a medical timeout, and I felt I was close, you know, close to finishing the match.  
He started hitting the ball pretty sweet and fast.   Didn't want to rally too much.   He played few good shots; I missed some.   Yeah, that was when he broke me.   
But I think I refocused back again pretty good.   Next game broke him back and served good for the title.  
Yeah, I think I was pretty well‑prepared for this match, and overall my focus was pretty good.   
   
 Q.   As you said, you're playing already on Monday.   Don't you think that even though it's always like that, players who play the final the week before slam should get an extra day off?  
VIKTOR TROICKI:   That's what you should tell to ATP and the people making the schedule.   That's how it is.   It's actually the same for my opponent who won the title in Auckland, so that's going to be interesting.   We both came in quallies and won the titles, me here and him in Auckland, as I said.  
Yeah, we have one day of rest.   Tomorrow is a travel day, so I don't know if you can count it as a day of rest.   I'll definitely have to practice and see the courts and conditions there.   
But that's the life, I guess of a professional tennis player.   It's not easy.   We know it.   You got to adjust pretty fast.   That's why I admire all the great names, great champions, who do this week after week.   You know, they keep winning, and that's what you got to do if you want to make it to the top.  
   
 Q.   Is there anyone you want to kind of give, in a way, this title to?   
VIKTOR TROICKI:   Yeah, there is many people, definitely.   Of course my parents who were always there and gave me opportunity to do this, to play.   
Then definitely my coach, Jack reader, and my trainer, Milos Jelisavcic, who are with me already for you few years.  
They stayed with me when I had time off.   They were by my side and we worked hard and they believed in me always.   This really means a lot to me.   They help me a lot.   
Also friends who were great.   Also very helpful and very‑‑ you know, gave me a lot of positive energy during my toughest time in life.   That means a lot, and I want to thank all the people who were there for me at that time.   
   
 Q.   If you end up making it back or making it to the top 10 or even better, is it possible that you would look back at the ban as even a positive thing?   
VIKTOR TROICKI:   No.   (Smiling.)   No.   
No, because I know that I didn't do anything wrong.   It's very painful when you know you're innocent and they punish you for something that you know you didn't do anything wrong.  
That hurts a lot, and I will never forget that.   I mean, they went after my career and they wanted to ruin it on the court.   It's been very tough in the start, so I will never, never forget it and I will never‑‑ it gave me a lot of‑‑ I mean, I was motivated and pumped even more when it happened.   
After few months when I got to think about it after all, I decided I want to play tennis again and give my best and of course come back stronger than I was.  
But still, it's not the way it should have happened.   That's what I think.   
   
 Q.   On a different note, I have one question for you:   I've been watching you in Brescia in a challenger and now here all week, and I still can't figure out, is your forehand better than the backhand or the other way around?   
VIKTOR TROICKI:   I don't know.   I don't want to give it out now publically.   (Smiling.)  
Let's keep it a secret.   
   
 Q.   How important is just physical fitness for you right now?   You seem to be moving really well and there were a lot of points that displayed that tonight.   It was very entertaining tennis.   How important is it for you to be able to keep that up?   
VIKTOR TROICKI:   I got to say I been working harder than ever probably, and I feel very, very fit.   I didn't have any problems.   I had eight matches here, and, yeah, luckily I haven't had problems.   I feel very fresh again.   I feel I can go again good on Monday, playing good on Monday.  
We'll see.   Definitely I was working hard and that's paying off.   I have inside myself trust in my body, and I feel I can do a lot of things.  
So that's the most important thing.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT