APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 16, 2015
Viktor Troicki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. TROICKI/G. Muller
  6‑2, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Congrats for the win.   Great start again today.   Do you feel like you're getting into the matches on a good rhythm better and better? 
VIKTOR TROICKI:   Well, it's usually like that once you get in the tournament and you feel few matches, you get few wins.   You feel more confident in your game and you play I think better and better.   That was the case also today for me. 
Yeah, came all the way from the quallies, so I had time to adjust for everything and get my game together.   I think I played well.
Yeah, I like the conditions here.   I played final few years ago here.   I could say that I love playing in Sydney, so I hope this time I go a step further.

Q.   Do you know you're anyway in history because first time two qualifiers will face each other in an ATP final. 
VIKTOR TROICKI:   I was told after the match.   Yeah, it's a funny fact.   It's interesting.   I hope I go into the record books as the winner.   That would be nice.
I mean, yeah, it's an interesting fact, and definitely it's going to be, I think, a good final.   I think Kukushkin is playing good tennis.   He's really hitting the ball nice.   We played few times, I think.   I know what to expect.
So I think it's going to be fun.   I will try to enjoy it.   We have time to rest.   We will also see who is fitter.   We both had a lot of matches.   But, yeah, I'm looking forward to it. 

Q.   How do you compare the way you played this week to 2011 I think it was when you made the final here?
VIKTOR TROICKI:   Well, back then I was like, what, somewhere around top 20?   Definitely I played different.   I think I improved some stuff over the years. 
I played okay back then also, but I think I have some more variety in my game and I enjoy maybe more on the court.
So, yeah, looking forward to it.   I hope, as I said, I go one step further this year.

Q.   You outserved the guy who has been serving all the aces in this tournament today. 
VIKTOR TROICKI:   You haven't watched me then.   (Laughing.) 

Q.   I think he had 52 in three games coming into tonight's match?
VIKTOR TROICKI:   Three matches? 

Q.   Yes.
VIKTOR TROICKI:   Well, I wasn't any worse, I don't think.   I don't know.   I don't know.   He might have been better, but he might've had longer matches.   I don't know.
Now, I think I outserved him.   Tomorrow I have another chance, so I guess I'll try to have more aces than him. 

Q.   There were many Serbian fans today.   Is it good to feel the crowd supporting you so much. 
VIKTOR TROICKI:   Well, always the crowd in the Australia, for Serbs it's always good because we have a lot people who came from Serbia and ex‑Yugoslavia to live in Australia.
We always have a lot of support and crowd cheering for us.   It's nice for us.   They get opponents pretty stressed out.   Yeah, it's great help, I would say, from them.
I always feel good when I'm in Australia regarding that.   I know there will be for sure a lot people cheering for us. 

Q.   Obviously the focus is on tomorrow's final, but did you have a chance to watch the draw?
VIKTOR TROICKI:   Yeah, of course.   Well, you have to see it.   I mean, it's out there.   I saw it.   Yeah, I'm playing another finalist, Vesely, who is playing finals tomorrow in Auckland.   Another lefty. 
I'm first looking forward to tomorrow's final.   That's my probably bigger match at the moment.   After that one I'll focus on the first round in Melbourne. 
But as I said, every match, every tournament for me is great, and I really enjoy being out here and competing against the best guys.
So that's the most important thing. 

Q.   Do you have any specific memories of playing Mikhail Kukushkin before?   Anything stand out? 
VIKTOR TROICKI:   Yeah.   Well, we played couple of the matches I think on challenger level when we were both kind of growing up as players.   We were younger, like around 20.   At that stage I was beating him, but last time he beat me in Melbourne, in Australian Open.   It was second round, I think.
I was up.   Had it under control, but then it was very windy, I remember, and at the end he won it.   He played a good tournament there.   I know what to expect.   He's improved a lot. 
So, yeah, as I said, I think I have my chances and I hope I play well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT