APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 11, 2012
Viktor Troicki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. BOGOMOLOV/V. Troicki
  7‑6, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You seemed a bit frustrated during that match.   What happened? 
VIKTOR TROICKI:   Well, yeah, it was a tough, tough day.   Tough conditions; extremely tough conditions.   I think I never played on such a windy day.
I knew already that I never used to play pretty good in wind, but today it was obvious that just couldn't play my best game.
I was struggling, and that's why I was a bit frustrated.   Yeah, things were not going my way, and that's why I lost.

Q.   You had a couple of words with the umpire on a couple of separate occasions.   What was that about? 
VIKTOR TROICKI:   That was just in the second set after he made a strange call.   So it was on break point in the second set where he made two strange calls. 
I mean, it was just about that.   I mean, I told him few times.   It was just where he made mistakes like that.

Q.   Have you had any problems with the umpiring at the tournament so far?   Was it just today that you had a problem with the umpire?
VIKTOR TROICKI:   Sometimes this stuff happens.   This is the part of the game.   When you don't have the Hawk‑Eye, it's tough to see.
I don't blame him.   It's just, I mean, he's one of the best umpires on the ATP Tour.   He's human and can make mistakes.   I think I'm right and he thinks he's right.   It's tough to see without the Hawk‑Eye who is right.
But this stuff happens.   It's just I was frustrated that it happened in the critical moment for me.   Yeah, bad luck for me.

Q.   Where to from here for you?
VIKTOR TROICKI:   Melbourne.   It's not the end of the world.   There is another next week, big one, so I'll give my best next week and hopefully go far.

Q.   How do you assess your form at the moment? 
VIKTOR TROICKI:   Well, it's still the start of the season.   This was just the second tournament.   I haven't‑‑ last year I think I played much better.   I made finals here; this year I didn't play as well.
But I think I'm okay.   Physically I feel well.   Game‑wise it could be better maybe, but I think I'm okay.   I just need to‑‑ if it wasn't windy, maybe I would have played better. 
But we'll see how it goes in Melbourne. 

Q.   Will you go to Melbourne straightaway and practice?
VIKTOR TROICKI:   Yes.

Q.   Could you say a few words about today's opponent?   Do you know about him a lot?   Could you describe his game, his strengths, and weaknesses? 
VIKTOR TROICKI:   Tough player, fights well.   I mean, I don't know what else to say.   If you want to see, please watch his matches.   I don't want to be the one that describes his game. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT