AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2011
Viktor Troicki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/V. Troicki
  6-2 (ret.) 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. The stomach problem, tell us about it. Is it something you had coming into the match?   
 VIKTOR TROICKI: I had it already a couple days after the tournament in Sydney. The next day when I came here, I started feeling it. It was Sunday.   
 Yeah, I mean, it was good for the first round, first round of singles. On the next day I felt it a little bit. I just had a short practice. I felt it a little bit.   
 Then during the second round against Nicolas Mahut already in the first set, end of the first set, beginning of the second set, I started feeling it pretty bad. For almost two sets I didn't serve one ace, and the percentage was really low. I was glad to win that match. I mean, I was really struggling with everything. It was really tough. It was hurting me a lot.   
 That's why I pulled out of doubles yesterday. I was thinking it might get better for today, but it didn't. Yeah, I didn't want to risk anything. I mean, season's just started. I mean, I had to be hundred percent if I wanted to beat Novak. I mean, if any chance, I needed to be hundred percent.   
 So today I think I took a smart decision and retired from the match.   
  
  Q. Always hard to come to that decision. Is it even harder and more disappointing against a friend and countryman?  
 VIKTOR TROICKI: Definitely. I mean, it doesn't matter if he's a friend or not. Obviously, we're really good friends. But, yeah, today I was thinking a lot, whether to go on the court, like if it's going to be better. I even took painkillers. With the painkillers I also felt it. So I guess it's not that good.   
 I need to take some time off and get ready for the next tournaments. Yeah, hopefully recover from this. We'll see.   
  
  Q. Tell us what you think about Novak's chances here. Nobody seems to be talking about him much.   
 VIKTOR TROICKI: Well, as we all know, I mean, he won here a few years ago. Obviously, he always plays good here. Right now I think he's playing pretty good. He has a lot of confidence from Davis Cup also.   
 Yeah, I mean, I think he's one of the favorites, for sure, to win the tournament. I mean, everyone is talking about Rafa and Roger, but I also think that Novak has a big chance. We'll see how the tournament goes. But he's always dangerous here. If he continues to play well, I mean, he can do it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT