MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 14, 2011
Viktor Troicki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. TROICKI/F. Mayer
  6-4, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. So are you ready to break another French heart tomorrow? 
 VIKTOR TROICKI: Definitely it's not going to be easy. I mean, I played Gilles a few times and I never won a set against him. So definitely it's not going to be an easy match for me. 
 I mean, the fact is that I was beating French guys last couple of months, but, still, I mean, I haven't played Gilles, and he's a tough opponent. I hope it's going to be a good match. 
 Yeah, we'll see how it goes tomorrow. 

 Q. How much confidence did the Davis Cup give you as a player to take forward? 
 VIKTOR TROICKI: Well, right now I feel it gave me a lot since I'm in the final. Second event of the year and already final. For sure it can give me a lot of confidence. I'm hoping to continue this way during the year. 
 Yeah, we'll see how it goes. 

 Q. Does this reminded you of the final of the Davis Cup playing Gilles?
 VIKTOR TROICKI: No, not really. I mean, this is a different thing. There it was much more pressure. I never experienced so much pressure than that day. Here, I'm relaxed. I mean, it's another match. 
 Even though it's a final, I mean, I can win, but I can lose and it's still okay. There, if I lost it would be a disaster, so...

 Q. It was good for you to play so late in the season with the Davis Cup like that? 
 VIKTOR TROICKI: Well, it's definitely tough. I mean, the season was very long. I had to plan my preparations also after Davis Cup, and how long I had to take off also. So it was quite different than the usual, than most of the years what happened for the preparation. 
 So, I don't know. I mean, I hope I did good preparations and I hope I stay fit during the year. We'll see. 

 Q. Do you feel you almost have home-ground support in Australia with all the Serbian support? 
 VIKTOR TROICKI: Yeah, in Australia it's always great. There are so many Serbians, and they always cheer for us. It feels great. Here and also in Melbourne, they always like coming to our matches and they're supporting us. It's nice to have crowd. Even though we are so far from home, it's nice to have someone from your own country cheering for you.

 Q. How do you feel like you played today? 
 VIKTOR TROICKI: I would say the match was pretty bad. It was quite windy. We were both struggling with our games. I mean, I wasn't so happy with my performance, but still I'm happy that I won. There was a lot mistakes from both sides. 
 Yeah, as I said, it was quite windy and tough to play. The wind was moving the ball around, and you really had to stay focused 100% to play good. 

 Q. What do you feel like you can achieve this year? Have you set goals? 
 VIKTOR TROICKI: Well, my career goal is to reach the top 10. This would be great if I can do it. I don't know if this year or maybe in couple years, or maybe never. This is my career goal. I'm working hard to reach that. We'll see. I mean, I hope I stay healthy and I play good. 
 Yeah, that's the only thing. Yeah, I need to work hard if I want to reach that goal. I hope one day I will get there. 

 Q. Will Michael Llodra always remind you - will you have good memories when you see him again?
 VIKTOR TROICKI: Definitely. Definitely. I mean, he will reminded me for sure for good memories, and I will reminded him for bad memories. 
 So, yeah, for me it was probably the best day of my life that Sunday. It will always stay in my heart and always stay in my memory.

 Q. You're drawn to play Novak Djokovic in the third round if it goes to seeding at the Australian . How did you feel about that?
 VIKTOR TROICKI: At first, I mean, let's finish this tournament, and then I will go to Melbourne. Yeah, first I have a tough opponent in the first round, Tursunov. He can play good. He was injured. That's why his ranking is quite lower now. So he's a very dangerous player. 
 First I have to win two matches there and he has to win two matches there. Then if we meet... I mean, again, we played couple of times last year. We had close matches, but he won all three of those. Even four. No, we played four matches last year. So he was always the winner. 
 If we get there, I hope this time I will beat him. (Smiling.)







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT