PILOT PEN TENNIS AT YALE
August 27, 2010
Viktor Troicki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. ISTOMIN/V. Troicki
  7-6, 3-6, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. A lot of people are looking towards next week. For the four semifinalists, this is a pretty big event for you, is it not? You don't have one eye on the other tournament, would that be fair?   
 VIKTOR TROICKI: Well, I mean, you always try to make the best results in a Grand Slam because there is four of them and they have the most points, most money, and you always try to perform well at the Grand Slams. But, I mean, I also tried my best here. I really wanted to win, to go far here, to perform well.   
 Today I would say I played a really poor match. Maybe just because of that, that I could have a chance for the tournament, maybe I just didn't play as good as before. Yeah, in some moments it was really bad.   
  
  Q. You broke for a 2-1 lead in the third set. Can you talk about what changed momentum after that.   
 VIKTOR TROICKI: Honestly right now I have no idea what happened. I mean, during the whole match, in the first set, it was a lot of ups and downs. I was serving for the set at 5-4. Then in the tiebreak, I also had a lot of chances. I didn't use them. I lost that set.   
 In the second set, I played okay. That was maybe my best part of the match, what I played. And then I started well in the third with a break up. From that point on, like, I didn't feel the ball great. I was too defensive. He used his chances when he had short balls from me. He stepped up and was hitting winners.   
 Just, yeah, I would say it wasn't such a good performance by me. It was too defensive today.   
  
  Q. In the third set you thought a ball was long, had a brief dialogue with the linesman there. Did you think it was long?   
 VIKTOR TROICKI: I didn't talk to anyone besides my coach. I thought it was long. I didn't see it well. I mean, the ball was clearly on the line and nothing. I mean, I didn't complain about that call at all.   
  
  Q. You mentioned that you thought you played poorly. Is he playing well enough to win this tournament?   
 VIKTOR TROICKI: I would say we both didn't perform that well today. I mean, the match was, as I said, a lot of ups and downs. We had a lot of unforced errors. Maybe in some moments he played better. Yeah, he used the chances.   
 I mean, we'll see. In the finals, anything could happen. But Stakhovsky is playing pretty good tennis. He's feeling confident. We'll see tomorrow. I'm not going to judge. They're both pretty good players. I'm not going to say who has more chances to be the winner.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT