WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2009
Viktor Troicki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/V. Troicki
  6-2, 6-3, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Can you give us your impressions of the match?  
 VIKTOR TROICKI: I think I played okay throughout the whole match. I mean, Andy just played better. I had to serve much better and probably to hit much harder than I did and more consistent.   
 Maybe I made too many mistakes. But he's solid. I mean, he's playing great. I mean, for sure one of the favorites to win here. He has confidence.   
 I mean, I'm a little bit disappointed that I didn't perform little bit better. But still, I mean, third round for me is the best result here so far, and I'm satisfied.   
 I mean, I was an outsider in this match, and he was a favorite. I gave everything. I tried till the last point. I'm not disappointed so much. I mean, I gave everything.   
  
  Q. How good was he, do you feel?  
 VIKTOR TROICKI: He's playing really smart from the first point. He knows what to do on the court. He's reading the game great. Playing a mixes of slice, and when he needs to go aggressive, he hits the ball pretty hard. He served unbelievable. I didn't have a chance on his serve. I mean, even one breakpoint that I had, he served an ace.   
 I couldn't read his serve at all throughout the match. I mean, this was really tough for me.  
  
  Q. Do you think you could have been playing the future champion?  
 VIKTOR TROICKI: For sure one of the favorites. I mean, you never know. The crowd is behind him, everybody is supporting him. He might be a champion - if not this year, maybe in the next few years. But even this year he's looking good.   
  
  Q. Is there any area of his game at all that anybody can work on or is there no weakness there?  
 VIKTOR TROICKI: I mean, depends from all the players. So far he's beaten everyone so far I think. I'm not really sure. I mean, on grass, it's difficult to say. I mean, Roger's playing great on grass. Other players. I really don't know.   
 I mean, we will see later on in the tournament probably.   
  
  Q. Did you go out there with a particular game plan for Murray today?  
 VIKTOR TROICKI: Yeah, I had a plan to go aggressive, hit the ball. I mean, even if I make a mistake, I was trying to go for it again. With him it's tough to keep on playing like from the baseline, to keep the ball in the play. I mean, he's one of the best in this.   
 I knew I had to go for it, hit the ball, go to the net, even though I knew he's playing great passing shots. I mean, I tried. I mean, he was better. So all credit goes to him.   
  
  Q. No aftereffects after playing five sets on Thursday? You felt okay?  
 VIKTOR TROICKI: Well, I mean, I was little bit tired. I didn't feel it so much. I also played doubles last day pretty late. We finished pretty late, around 9:00. It was also long match. The day before I played a five-setter in singles.   
 So I was feeling little bit tired. But I really wanted to give everything, to perform well, and to play best what I can. I mean, I tried what I had.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT