WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2009
Viktor Troicki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. TROICKI/D. Gimeno-Traver
  6-7, 6-0, 1-6, 6-3, 7-5 
   
  Q. You must be pleased that the match carried on in the end rather than stopped.   
 VIKTOR TROICKI: Well, actually I was the one that wanted to stop. For me it was already like in the middle of the fifth set I was having trouble seeing the ball, and it was getting pretty dark.   
 I really wanted to stop at 5-All. Luckily I didn't. I played really good. I decided -- when we decided to keep on playing, I decided to go for the shots, hit the shots, and it worked well. I broke him right away and I held serve.   
 I'm really happy that I won. Not so happy the way I played throughout the whole match, but sometimes it's important when you're playing not so good to win the match. So this is a positive thing.   
  
  Q. I don't know if you were aware, but Andy Murray was watching from the balcony after he finished his match. What would Andy have made of your performance, do you think?   
 VIKTOR TROICKI: Well, I don't know. I mean, we know each other pretty long. We played juniors also together where he was one year younger than me.   
 Obviously we play each other next round, and we played a few times before. He was always like -- two times actually we played, and both times he won pretty easy matches.   
 He's playing great right now, and for sure it's going to be tough for me. Great challenge on the Centre Court for me. First time to play on Centre Court at Wimbledon.   
 It's going to be a great experience, but I'm not going to give up. I mean, I'm going to give my best and try to win.  
  
  Q. The last time you met it was a bit one-sided. What happened there?   
 VIKTOR TROICKI: It was. Well, I mean, it was a fourth round already, and I was kind of -- I played really good throughout the tournament. Won pretty -- like against Nalbandian I played a great match in the second round; beat him pretty easy.   
 I felt confident against Andy. It just didn't go my way. He was playing really good. He won the tournament at the end. He's playing amazing on the hard court. It just didn't go my way. I didn't serve good. I didn't do anything right.   
 So I mean, that's why it was so easy. I hope it's not going to happen again.  
  
  Q. What needs to happen this time for you to get the better of Andy?   
 VIKTOR TROICKI: Well, I mean, I need to play offensive. He's playing great right now. I mean, it's going to be tough for sure. I know it. But I need to believe that I can win these matches against the top players. And if I believe before we start the match, that already helps me.   
 I need to play aggressive, play smart, give my best, and to hope that I can -- I hope I can win if I play my best tennis. I don't know what can happen.   
  
  Q. And you say this is your first time on Centre Court. At any time that can be an intimidating place, but this time the crowd will obviously be on Andy's side.   
 VIKTOR TROICKI: Yeah, for sure.   
  
  Q. Are you prepared for that? How will you deal with that? Will you block it all out?  
 VIKTOR TROICKI: Well, I will for sure try to block it out. I mean, I don't know what to expect. First I will for sure need some time to get used to the court and to the atmosphere around Centre Court, and then I will see how the crowd is reacting.   
 It's going to matter a lot about, I mean, how the score goes. I just hope that I'm going to play good.   
  
  Q. You've played big games in Davis Cup matches. How does this compare? Will it be much bigger, do you think?   
 VIKTOR TROICKI: Well, I cannot say. I mean, it's going to be maybe similar like a Davis Cup because he's playing at home and all the crowd is going to cheer for him.   
 But I mean, that's tennis, and you've got to play it like it is and get used to all the things around.   
 I will just try to give my best like always, try to play good, and hopefully win.  
  
  Q. When the pressure is on like against Tursunov in the Davis Cup you came through. Will that be a boost for you, like to your confidence?   
 VIKTOR TROICKI: Well, I mean, I never give up. I try to win even if I'm like -- even if I'm not playing great. Like today, I mean, I was down 4-1 in the fifth, and I always try to finish the match until the end.   
 I hope, I mean, if the score is -- I'm not going to talk anything about the match. I mean, anything could happen. I will just try to be positive on the court and try to play well.   
  
  Q. What do you remember about Andy from playing years ago and from coming up with him?   
 VIKTOR TROICKI: Well, he was always -- even in juniors he was always the top. I mean, he has improved so much in the last year. He's playing great. He's one of the favorites here to win it.   
 I mean, he is for sure the favorite in the match. That's all I can say.   
  
  Q. But you have improved very much in the last year. Do you feel that you might be a late developer, somebody who will go on improving, and this is a start?  
 VIKTOR TROICKI: Well, I've always needed some time to adjust to everything. Also, like I just didn't go like some guys. They showed up at 17, boom, they were like top ten. I always need some time to get used to it, to get experience on the court, and to meet these guys and to play against them.   
 I go step by step. For me, so far it worked well. I was always going up on the rankings. So far it's been good. I mean, last year I made some good results. I was happy.   
  
  Q. Your serve is a big weapon. Do you find grass is a surface that suits you?   
 VIKTOR TROICKI: Well, I mean, I cannot say -- hard court is my favorite surface, and I haven't played so much on grass before. I mean, before I really didn't like it so much. But right now, I mean, from last year I played a little bit better and I started to like it.   
 Right now I feel okay playing on grass, and I mean, for sure it helps when you serve big. For sure it helps your game, to win it easier.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT