KIA CLASSIC
March 22, 2018
Hee Young Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You were one of the last groups to finish.
HEE YOUNG PARK: Uh-huh.
Q. Now you find yourself at the top of the leaderboard.  What went right today?
HEE YOUNG PARK: I was worry about the weather today.  This afternoon was supposed to be a lot of rain, but luckily like just avoided afternoon time.
The greens are really soft, make the soft, so easier to more play with the second shot.  My caddie and I tried to -- can possible leave the uphill putts, so kind of worked well.
I been practice a lot of like short putting.  Like last week and even this week I got a lot of confidence inside like six foot putts, so I made a lot of also inside six foot putt.  I don't think I missed a short putt today.  That makes me like a lot more comfortable, so easier to play the round today.
Q. Did you work on your putting during the off-season?
HEE YOUNG PARK: Uh-huh.
Q. How have you been able to improve?
HEE YOUNG PARK: I met one of the guy, which is Haru Nomura, the uncle, real uncle.  He taught me how to do putting, drill stuff.  I just try to stick with the new couple drill things and kind of worked.
Q. Yeah, looks like it's working.
HEE YOUNG PARK: Uh-huh..
Q. I think you had almost a perfect round.
HEE YOUNG PARK: Uh-huh.
Q. How do you feel going into tomorrow's rounds?
HEE YOUNG PARK: Tomorrow I have 8:30, early tee time, so it's going to be a little bit of chilly out there.  So like doing same thing.  Like one shot of the shot, so not going to try to force it tomorrow.  Just try to (indiscernible)cold weather tomorrow morning, and then same thing.  Try to leave the uphill putt all the time and make easier make the hole.
Q. What did your caddie tell you during the round?
HEE YOUNG PARK: He's pretty cool.  I been know him like over ten years.  We just started work like at the Phoenix last week.  He knows me and I knows him and he's pretty cool.
He has like all the course information, but he never tell me, like over explain every shot.  Like if I need information, he gives some.  If not, he just leaves me alone.  Just to visualize more shot and put it in the hole.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT