BANK OF HOPE FOUNDERS CUP
March 16, 2018
Hee Young Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








HEE YOUNG PARK: (Recording in progress. ) But this morning a little bit chilly out there.  The distance got a little bit shorter than yesterday, so kind of tough to get into the par-5s.
But I hit it pretty solid.  Even back nine I had a lot more chance to make some birdies but I missed a couple short putts.
Still under par, and I hit it pretty good.  I guess good position right now, so still far away to go.
Q. Yeah, right?  Top of the leaderboard.
HEE YOUNG PARK: Just do some work, you know, with the putting green and driving range little bit, I think I'm ready to go weekend.
Q. I'm just going to ask you three questions.  Ready?  Tell us about your day.  You said it was a little more difficult but you were still able to find some birdie spots today.
HEE YOUNG PARK: Yeah, I played pretty well yesterday, but weather conditions pretty tough, like windy and gust.  But this morning perfect shade and a lot more calm.
The weather was pretty chilly out there so distance was little shorter than yesterday, so it was a little bit tough to get into par-5s today.  But I hit it pretty good.  Commit to the shot.
Back nine couple shots I missed a couple birdie putts, but I'm going to working on it afternoon and I'm ready for the weekend.
Q. I was going to say, are you excited for the week end?  I see the big smile on your face.  You're towards the top of the leaderboard.  Two more rounds to go.  Are you excited for the weekend?
HEE YOUNG PARK: Yeah.  I been really prepared last wintertime, and this is first event in the States.  I was very excited, and luckily play really well second round, so I think I'm ready to go.
Q. Tell us what you did this off-season to prepare for your first start on the t LPGA?
HEE YOUNG PARK: Last seven years I lived in Orlando, Florida.  Long time.  I decided move to L.A., California.  Like just little change.  Weather was great out here.  I played a lot of golf then do some lot of workout, and no more injury pains.  You know, pain-free now.
So I think more better get result out here.
Q. Lastly, do you feel like this could be one of your best years yet?
HEE YOUNG PARK: Um, this is first event.  Not even done.  I don't know about it, but I always little bit struggle first couple events last couple few years.
But I feel great right now, and I'm very excited even whole season.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT