NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 7, 1999
Domingo Castro
Franca Fiacconi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You are the happiest person I have ever seen in a major international marathon
coming through in second place. You look so happy. Were you?

DOMINGOS CASTRO: Very happy. Very happy because before New York many people think
Castro may be dead. Because I am old man. This is 36 years old. But today I run very good
race. I training two months before New York very hard and during two months I only
thinking New York, so today second, I think is a good result for me.

Q. When you appeared at the press conference the other day you seemed quietly
confident. Were you?

DOMINGOS CASTRO: Two weeks ago when I won in Paris, 20K, against four tough athletes,
after race I think in New York I can run very fast, but all the time I have respect for
all athletes, so today I think so another athletes look me after I won in Paris.

Q. What did you think of Chebet's race today?

DOMINGOS CASTRO: Chebet all the time is stronger athlete. When he push I have some
problems in my legs, a little tired, but last K, I think -- in the last kilometer he
thought that he could beat Chebet.

Q. We thought that watching the screen here. We wondered if he could close him down at
the end: I was trying to catch him but I got problems in the legs. I was very tired, of
course, and I tried to increase the rhythm but I couldn't. So I prefer to stay in my
place.
Q. Can you just described last few miles of the race? Seemed as if you initiated a
surge going into Central Park around the 23rd mile and then there the pack of 8 went down
to three and then Chebet finally broke away. Talk a little bit about the end of the race,
please.

DOMINGOS CASTRO: When I came into the park I tried to push as much as I could to select
the most people in the head pack. I was pushing, pushing, pushing, but I couldn't put out
Chebet that he arrives together and finally I went ahead -- he went ahead not too far from
the finish.

Q. Given that you probably are faster over the last half mile than most of the other
runners, do you think it was a mistake to push and maybe you would have been better to let
it come down to a sprint over the last 400 meters?

DOMINGOS CASTRO: My way of running is always the same, if I feel powerful I go ahead. I
don't like to let anything to the final because I prefer to make strong rhythm during the
race. I prefer to let the others before the finished meter.

Q. Why did you take it out so early, so quickly right from the get go?

FRANCA FIACCONI: Because I want to make the selection immediately, selection for the
group, for the other runners. I want to be in front immediately -- to be aggressive to put
immediate pressure in the field, not to wait anything.

Q. Did you feel you had to take it out right away to win? Were you afraid that
Fernandez, if you did not, she would catch up -- would put the pressure on later?

FRANCA FIACCONI: Yes, I think that could I do the same thing in a next race.

Q. Did your right elbow trouble you at all during the race? I know you have been having
those problems?

FRANCA FIACCONI: Yes, around 30K and I had also another problem in the left foot that
since the beginning made me some problems. Problems with my left foot as well.

Q. When did the race change? When did you notice that Adriana was going to take it
away?

FRANCA FIACCONI: Around 24k.

Q. What happened there?

FRANCA FIACCONI: She pushed the race and was also feeling this problem in my left foot,
so I left her to go and I was not able to follow her.

Q. When she came alongside you after about 4 miles, about 6 kilometers, she came next
to you, did you think that she was just going to sit there and do what she did?

FRANCA FIACCONI: No. It was a pace that was okay, I was not feeling any pressure in the
pace, so for me it was okay to stay and to run with her.

Q. What exactly was wrong with your left foot? Was it a blister? Was it a bone or a
muscle or what?

FRANCA FIACCONI: Metatarsal was the injury problem.

Q. Which one?

FRANCA FIACCONI: She had a problem ten days ago after tough training and I was taken to
have some X-ray and they said that it was problem in, I don't know in English, metatarsal.

Q. Everyone who has won here including yourself and Adriana today and even on the men's
said Chebet and Kagwe has finished in second or third in the years before they have won.
How important is experience on this course?

FRANCA FIACCONI: It is really important because this is a very tough course so it is
important to run at least one time and experience that you have in this course is very,
very important. I knew when I came here that I was not 100% but I knew very well the
course so I knew that I can in any case run well.

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT