NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 25, 2006
Jill Craybas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  Well, that had to be one of your more exciting victories of your career, would you say? 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  Yes, it definitely was. 
 Q.  Serena. 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  Yeah (smiling).  I actually had a lot of fun out there.  I think that that's due to a lot of the fact that I was successful today. 
 I never played her before so I didn't know what to expect.  I just told myself before the match, "Just have fun, enjoy the moment." 
 Q.  They say she's a great mover.  She complimented you.  She knew about your movement and athleticism.  Is her game similar to your game? 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  I think movement-wise, probably, because, I mean, that's what my coach told me, too, before I went out to play, is that she's one of the best movers as well on the court. 
 So we both, you know, had that going for us today.  But, I mean, I think she probably hits a little bit harder than I do.  She's just, you know, a stronger girl overall. 
 But it was just a great match. 
 Q.  It seemed like whenever -- you won the first set, she comes back, now she's up a break.  For us guys, it's like, "Okay, she's just gonna..." 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  That's what a lot of people expect, yeah. 
 Q.  How did you keep it together down a break in the third, 4-2? 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  Even though I was down 4-2, I mean, that probably went through my head as well, you know, just like everybody else.  But I just tried to focus on the moment.  You know, again, just enjoy myself out there.  I think I just, you know -- in the beginning of the match I felt like I was trying to go for too much because I felt the pressure of her, you know, stepping up and expecting her to hit winners. 
 But I think once that I got over that, I just tried to, you know, stay in the moment and rally and just keep rallying.  Then once I did that, I got into a groove.  And the same thing happened in the third, too.  When she got up, I was just like, "Okay, get that groove back."  I found it again. 
 Q.  We spoke at Wimbledon after the Serena match. 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  Yes, I remember. 
 Q.  You were saying each of these type of victories really improve your confidence and that other people had always told you you could play with everyone but you had to convince yourself. 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  Yeah. 
 Q.  Where do you stand right now confidence-wise, beating Kim Clijsters, defending champion? 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  I think probably even better, because it's just another Top 10 win that I have.  I think that, you know, the more you play the top players, the more you get used to just being out there, getting used to the atmosphere.  I think just the atmosphere and the mental attitude toward the match has a lot to do with it and I think that's what's improved with me confidence-wise. 
 Q.  Who else have you beaten in the top 10? 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  Dementieva, that was a couple years ago. 
 Q.  What was the atmosphere like here for you? 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  Oh, it was great.  I love it.  I mean, that's what we play for.  I mean, we play for -- 'cause we love the game, but when the crowd gets into it.  And the same thing at Wimbledon, you know, the crowd was so into it.  It's just so much energy.  It's great. 
 Q.  Did they know you're a Florida gator? 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  I think a lot of people, I didn't notice that, but I think a lot of people did, yes. 
 Q.  It sounds like psychological jargon is coming forth from your mouth.  Are you working with a sports psychologist?  Tell us about that, if you are. 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  My coach -- I don't have a specific sports psychologist, but my coach, his name's Raj Chaudhuri, he actually majored in psychology.  He actually helps me with that aspect of my game as well.  He pretty much has a lot of responsibilities. 
 Q.  He's helping you in a lot of different areas. 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  Yeah, yeah, exactly.  Yeah. 
 Q.  How far can you go here?  What do you think?  How are you feeling? 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  Uhm, I'm hoping all the way.  I mean, that's what we play -- I mean, that's why we enter every tournament.  I don't think you should -- well, I don't like to -- I go into every tournament thinking I can win, so. 
 Q.  Ten years on the tour, right? 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  Seven.  I mean, it does say '96, but I didn't play the whole year in '97. 
 Q.  Just getting better with age? 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  Yeah. 
 Q.  30-somethings have won Grand Slams? 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  31, yeah. 
 Q.  A lot of 30-somethings have won Grand Slams? 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  I mean, it doesn't matter how old you are, I think, just as long as you feel good and feel great about what you're doing. 
 Q.  What has been your best tournament, whether it's been in a main draw or even challengers?  Have you won some lower tournaments? 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  Yeah, I've won some challengers.  I've also won a WTA Tour event in Tokyo, won a couple doubles WTA tournaments as well. 
 Q.  How is it to end up with the trophy? 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  It's a huge accomplishment, yeah.  It's a huge accomplishment.  I mean, but then again, you also realize it's over and there's always another week. 
 Q.  Did you like instant replay? 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  I love it.  You mean the challenge? 
 Q.  Yes. 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  I know, I am disappointed myself in myself that I didn't do it.  I wanted to do it but I was telling Amy there wasn't a close enough one to do it on. 
 Q.  It seems pretty universal, the players like it? 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  I mean, all the players love it.  I think it's great for the spectators and I think it's great for television as well. 
 Q.  Do you live in Rhode Island still? 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  No, I live in California. 
 Q.  Where? 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  In Huntington Beach, but I train at the Newport Beach Tennis Club in Newport Beach. 
 Q.  Did you run across Lindsay a lot? 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  Yes, sometimes she trains there.  She lives in Laguna Beach, but I've seen her a little bit in Newport Beach. 
 Q.  Are you following the basketball tournament at all? 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  I haven't been. 
 Q.  You know the Gators are in it.  They're playing Villanova. 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  I do know, yeah.  One of the fans told me that they won. 
 Q.  You had a good year with Texas, too. 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  Yes, I did.  Yeah, yeah (laughing). 
 Q.  You got two national championships. 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  Yes, and Texas won the football so (laughing). 
 Q.  They're still alive,  I think, in the NCAAs, too. 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  In the basketball?  I'm not following. 
 Q.  Who would you root for if Texas played the Gators in the national championship? 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  I'd root for Florida (laughing). 
 Q.  Maybe that's a good thing if you're still playing, that way you don't have to watch it. 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  Exactly, yes.  Hopefully, I'll get another chance to challenge, too (laughing). 
 Q.  Some of the players said what they like about it is a decision is made, it's final, and you can move on.  You don't think about that for a couple games or whatever.  Are you the type of player that does dwell on like a questionable call?  What is your mentality? 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  I get over it pretty quickly. 
 Q.  You do? 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  Yeah. 
 Q.  You just like the idea just because the fun of it? 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  I just think it's exciting.  I saw it when they did it for the Hopman Cup in the beginning of the year.  I saw it on TV, so I got to see the perspective of what it would be like for television, and I thought it was great, yeah. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT