WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2005
Jill Craybas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 
 

Q.  Couldn't quite take on the other Williams sister as well then?
 
JILL CRAYBAS:  Yeah, no, I mean, she played really well today, so... 
 

Q.  What was the problem?  You took a medical time-out.
 
JILL CRAYBAS:  In my second-round match I pulled my stomach a little bit, just strained my stomach muscle a little bit, and it was bothering me second round and at the end of the match against Serena.  And then today as well it was bothering me. So she -- I had it taped, but it didn't quite -- the tape wasn't on the right spot, so I had to have her retape it. 
 

Q.  Was that responsible for the very quick first set, do you think, your injury?
 
JILL CRAYBAS:  No, I don't think so.  I mean, it just -- it didn't bother me on the ground strokes at all during the points, just on my serve. 
 

Q.  Do you think now that maybe Venus could go all the way, or is that difficult to tell?
 
JILL CRAYBAS:  No, definitely, I think she definitely has a chance to win the tournament.  She was -- I mean, it's always an option, for her to win it. 
 

Q.  What about you, how will you look back on this Wimbledon?  With great memories?
 
JILL CRAYBAS:  Yes, definitely.  It was a great tournament for me and I have nothing but positive things to take away from it. 
 

Q.  If you already answered this, I'm sorry.  Could you just describe how Venus played and, you know, what do you think was the difference in the match today?
 
JILL CRAYBAS:  I think she was really fired up today and I think she played great.  She came up with some really great shots at key moments, and she just kept the pressure on the whole time. 
 

Q.  Did you feel that from the beginning that it was her match that you had to get into, or was there a point in the match where you thought...
 
JILL CRAYBAS:  No, no, I never felt like it was her -- I mean my match to get into.  But, I mean, she played great and she didn't give away any free points and she was just mentally tough today. 
 

Q.  Did she seem more fired up today than on previous occasions when you've played her?
 
JILL CRAYBAS:  I've never played her before. 
 

Q.  You never played her before.
 
JILL CRAYBAS:  Yeah, so... 
 

Q.  I should have done my homework, then, shouldn't I?
 
JILL CRAYBAS:  What's that? 
 

Q.  I said I should have done my homework, then, shouldn't I?
 
JILL CRAYBAS:  Oh, that's okay (smiling).  Don't worry about it. 
 

Q.  Were you hampered in any way by injury?  I know there was a little time-out in the middle.
 
JILL CRAYBAS:  Yeah, I just -- I called the trainer.  I strained my stomach a little bit in my second-round match and it had been bothering me at the end of my second-round match and against Serena at the end of the match.  It was bothering me today, but it only bothered me on the serve, it didn't bother me during the points or anything like that.  It just hindered me on my serve. 
 

Q.  Do you play them with a similar strategy, both the sisters?
 
JILL CRAYBAS:  Yeah, pretty similar strategy, yeah.  Because they play pretty like each other, yeah.  So similar. 
 

Q.  Do you think Venus was maybe more fired up because you'd beaten her sister?
 
JILL CRAYBAS:  I'm not sure.  You'd have to ask her (smiling). 
 

Q.  You said it was a great tournament for you.  What do you take from it?  You know, your coach said he wants you to build from here, he doesn't want that to be the highlight of your career.  What do you take forward from here?
 
JILL CRAYBAS:  Yeah, like I said in the other press conference, it's just like a new beginning for me.  I can take nothing but positive things.  I mean, it was a great tournament for me.  It's my first time in the fourth round and I had some great matches.  And, you know, I played well and gained a lot of confidence.  So I just have to keep my focus on those things. 
 

Q.  It seems like it would be tough to face Venus when she comes up to the net, long arms.
 
JILL CRAYBAS:  She's very long (smiling).  Not only at the net, but at the baseline, too.  I mean, there were a lot of rallies where I felt like it might have been, you know, a much more effective shot if she wasn't so long.  But she got to a lot of balls that, you know, other players might not have gotten to.  But she just has that huge stretch, that she got her racquet on a lot of balls today.  That's what put the pressure on even more. 
 

Q.  Her wing span, it almost looks like she can go side to side.  That's what it looks like from your vantage point, too?
 
JILL CRAYBAS:  Yeah, yeah.  Very long. 
 

Q.  Having played the two sisters back-to-back, you know --
 
JILL CRAYBAS:  Sorry? 
 

Q.  Having played both sisters back-to-back --
 
JILL CRAYBAS:  Oh, have I?  No. 
 

Q.  No, no, no.  Having played them back-to-back, your own performance notwithstanding, who do you think is striking the ball better right now?
 
JILL CRAYBAS:  I mean, they're both striking the ball great.  I mean, they both play similarly.  They both take the ball early and they both hit the ball with great depth and great power.  So, I mean, I wouldn't say one's better than the other, but I think they're just both really strong players. 
 

Q.  How do you see Venus against Mary Pierce?  How do you see that matchup?
 
JILL CRAYBAS:  I think it's gonna be a great match.  I mean, they both just go after their shots and hit the ball.  But, you know, Mary's been playing well, she had a great French Open, she has a lot of confidence now.  Venus, obviously, is very confident.  I felt like she was very confident today and really struck the ball well. But it should be a really good match. 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT