NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 30, 2004
Jill Craybas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  You had a grade run in the tournament.  Did you feel a little bit overwhelmed out there?  Did you feel she was playing close to her best? 

JILL CRAYBAS:  Overall, I felt like she was playing really well.  I played her at Wimbledon last year and it was a little bit closer than today.  But I felt today that I was rushing a little bit with what I needed to do.  Part of that is because, I mean, that's what makes her so good, is she applies that pressure to you and she took me out of my game a little bit today.  I felt like I was just rushing a little bit.  But she played great, so...

Q.  When a player like that gets on a little bit of a roll, is it very difficult to stop? 

JILL CRAYBAS:  Yeah.  I mean, especially because today she just  -- she kept applying the pressure over and over again and she didn't back down.  She was playing well, and I think since she was feeling good today, it just gave her more confidence.  So she just upped her game and she served really well today also. 

Q.  Were you overwhelmed by the scene?  You haven't been in these type of big matches too often. 

JILL CRAYBAS:  No, I was okay.  I've played in a couple of big stadiums before in Indian Wells, in Tokyo and also at Wimbledon I played Serena Centre Court last year.  So the scene wasn't overwhelming.  It was just, I mean, I think she just  -- I watched her play a little bit a couple days ago and yesterday a little bit, and, you know, I knew she had been playing well.  I think she just, you know, took me out of my game a little bit today.

Q.  Most people didn't think she was playing well, especially the first match. 

JILL CRAYBAS:  Right.

Q.  Can you compare her game to maybe Wimbledon, when she was at the top, to what you saw today?

JILL CRAYBAS:  Wimbledon was on also on grass, so it's completely different.  I mean, the ball wasn't bouncing as high.  I felt like that was a factor for me today.  Her serve was bouncing a lot higher than when it was when I played her on grass.  After a few games I stepped up and started trying to take her serve early.  But, I mean, just her serve was just too powerful today.

Q.  You don't see that much of a difference in "that" Serena and "this" Serena, forget about the surface?

JILL CRAYBAS:  I mean, I feel maybe she was playing a little bit better at Wimbledon.  It's hard because she hasn't played in eight months.  So I'm sure she's a little rusty.  But hopefully not that rusty (laughing). 

Q.  Is it hard to feel bad when you lose to, you know, when she's healthy, the No. 1 player in the world?  You've reached the fourth round of a big tournament.  You lose to what should be the No. 1 player in the world.  Is it hard to feel that bad?

JILL CRAYBAS:  No, I came off the court, talked to my coach.  We both said, "Hey, look, I'm improving, I'm getting better.  I've had a great year so far, I had a great tournament, the best I've had, here in Miami."   You know, you've got to focus on the positive and just keep improving and learn from these matches.  I mean, I thank these people that show you what you need to work. 

Q.  You mean thanking someone like Serena?

JILL CRAYBAS:  Yeah. 

Q.  You say that afterwards...

JILL CRAYBAS:  Well, it's interesting because yesterday when I played Suarez  -- I lost to Conchita Martinez in Indian Wells.  I learned a lot from that match.  I actually improved a lot on it during this tournament.  So it helped me with this tournament.  So, I mean, I need to just keep focusing on where I'm going and what I'm improving on.

Q.  You're a college graduate. 

JILL CRAYBAS:  Yes. 

Q.  What did you major in?

JILL CRAYBAS:  TV and Film Production. 

Q.  Future commentator?

JILL CRAYBAS:  Yeah, maybe (smiling).  I was more behind the scenes. 

Q.  If you'll forgive a shallow question, my colleagues in the media, particularly the European ones, have been talking about Serena's outfits.  How many girls on tour could pull that off? 

JILL CRAYBAS:  Yeah.  I think, you know, you got to have the confidence to do it.  She definitely has the confidence to do it.  But, you know, good on her if she wants to, you know, if she has the guts to wear it then; she's got the guts to wear it.  You wouldn't find me in that (laughing).

Q.  That was my next question. 

JILL CRAYBAS:  Yeah (smiling).  

Q.  Can I just ask, when you're playing Serena, is there a different feeling when you're playing against her than when you play against anybody else?  She has an aura about her.

JILL CRAYBAS:  She does, she does.  I mean, you can tell she's extremely confident.  She just makes you feel like she's that much, you know, she's at a higher level.  She does make you feel like that, especially when you look across the court  - she's just so much taller and stronger than a lot of other girls that you see on the tour.  But she does give off a little aura.  I think that's part of the pressure that she puts on you.

Q.  Is there anything specific, it's just the way she acts, the way she looks, what is it? 

JILL CRAYBAS:  I think it's a combination of things, probably.  I mean, I can't  -- I don't know specifically what it is, but...

Q.  It's something?

JILL CRAYBAS:  It's just one of those things where, you know, sometimes you get a good feel for somebody but you're not really sure why.

Q.  Uh-hmm. 

JILL CRAYBAS:  Same thing.

Q.  A moral victory getting that one game?

JILL CRAYBAS:  Yeah, thank God (laughing). 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT