SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 21, 2007
Jill Craybas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  How did the breaks affect your tournament today or your game?   
 JILL CRAYBAS:  Yeah, the rain delays are always difficult because you get warm and then cold and then warm and then cold.  You just have to stay mentally strong, even when you're off the court and stuff like that.   
 But it happens a lot, especially at Wimbledon (laughing), so we're used to it.  But it is a little bit difficult sometimes.   
  
  Q.  Do you think that the length of your match because of all the breaks is going to affect your next match?   
 JILL CRAYBAS:  Oh, no, definitely not.  I don't even think I play tomorrow.  I'll just have a short practice tomorrow and then have a small workout and then take the rest of the day off, so I don't think it'll be an issue.   
  
  Q.  How did the weather affect you today, or the wind?   
 JILL CRAYBAS:  The wind was pretty difficult today because it wasn't necessarily going in one direction.  It's swirling a lot.  So it's hard to tell exactly which way it was going at a certain time.  But it's usually pretty windy here.   
 I think all of us expected it to be windy, so we're all trying to prepare for that.  But it's hard to prepare for the wind.  You know, you just kind of have to adjust as you're out there.   
  
  Q.  Last year you defeated the 2nd seed and the 27th seed and made it to the fourth round.  What are your expectations this year?   
 JILL CRAYBAS:  To win, of course (laughing).   
  
  Q.  What kind of adjustments did you make?  You called your coach over going into the third set and then the break.  What kind of adjustments did you make?  Because clearly with the breaks and everything you really stepped up your game in the third set.   
 JILL CRAYBAS:  Yeah, he gave me a few tips that actually I did really -- I implemented them really well in the third set, and I think that made a big difference because I think she felt a little bit more pressure in the third.  I think my focus was a lot better in the third set.   
 I was really focusing on what I need to do instead of worrying about how she was playing or what she was doing.   
  
  Q.  Do you feel going into your next match, considering you won your third set in such a dominating fashion, that you can kind of take something from that different than if you would have played going into a tiebreak into the third set since you were able to clear out the third set pretty quickly?   
 JILL CRAYBAS:  Definitely, I think so.  I mean, to win it great, even if I won 7-6 in the third it would have been great.  But I think the way I approached the third set helped me into the next round because the way I focused, I think that made a big impact, and I think I'll go into the next round feeling that way.   
  
  Q.  During the rain delays what do you do to pass time, what kind of things?   
 JILL CRAYBAS:  I was just sitting in the locker room.  There's a coaches' locker room.  I was sitting in the coaches' locker room with my coach.  I don't really do anything, just kind of chill.   
  
  Q.  What kind of activities do you plan on engaging in while you're not on the tennis court here in Miami?  You have some familiarity with Florida.  Now that you're in Miami, what do you plan on doing?  And when you see this tournament on your calendar, do you perceive it a little bit differently, go into it a little bit differently?   
 JILL CRAYBAS:  I always have a good feeling in Miami actually because I've performed well here in the past.  I always feel confident coming into this tournament.  I do feel a bit different coming in here because I know I usually play well while I'm here.  So that's a little bit different.   
 And also, I have a lot of friends that drive down from Gainesville to watch me play, so I do have a lot of support and that helps, as well.   
  
  Q.  Do you have a favorite place to play?   
 JILL CRAYBAS:  I like playing here.  I also like playing in Auckland, New Zealand.  There's a lot of places.  I like all the Grand Slams.  If I get to play I'm happy.   
  
  Q.  What do you think of the purple courts?  That's been kind of a talking point around the courts here this week.  What do you think of them?   
 JILL CRAYBAS:  I like them.  I've always liked the -- most of the courts are blue now wherever we go, but these are a little bit more purple, like you said.  I like them.  I think they show up better on TV.  I think they're better for the fans to watch.  I think it's easier to see the ball for the fans and on television.  I like them a lot.   
  
  Q.  Is there anything different from a player's perspective when the courts are like that?   
 JILL CRAYBAS:  No, not really, no.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT