NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 27, 2006
Jill Craybas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  End of a lovely run. 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  Yeah. 
 Q.  I mean, you had a great first -- was it 6-1, 6-2? 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  6-2, yeah. 
 Q.  What went wrong after that? 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  I feel, even though I won the first set, I never really felt comfortable out there today.  I think I was just really nervous.  I knew it was a good opportunity and I just let it get to my head a little bit too much today. 
 Q.  Think they could have put the last American on the Stadium Court? 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  I know (laughing).  Maybe they were confident I was gonna win.  I don't know. 
 Q.  What did she do, though?  She seemed to like rally well. 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  Yeah, I think neither one of us -- I think both of us were a little bit nervous in the beginning.  Then she stepped it up and started hitting the ball harder and deeper and got more consistent as the match went on. 
 You know, I didn't really have a lot of depth in my balls today.  I think that hurt me a lot. 
 Q.  Feel like you let like a golden opportunity slip by? 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  I mean, not necessarily.  I can't be disappointed in the tournament.  I had a great tournament.  There's going to be plenty of opportunities ahead.  I just have to look forward to the next tournament. 
 Q.  There was a key break in the third set.  Can you take me through it. 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  At 2-All? 
 Q.  Yeah.  It seemed like there was a key break.  Think that was it. 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  I believe I was serving, yeah.  I just -- was struggling with my percentage today, first serve percentage.  I think she really stepped up and took advantage of my second serve.  You know, credit goes to her, too.  She competed well.  She played well.  You know, she came up with the win. 
 Q.  I know you say you're playing for the moment.  But did you ever give yourself a chance last night to think ahead at all? 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  I didn't really change my routine at all, so I didn't -- I don't really like to think ahead.  I just kind of, like you said, take it moment by moment.  I was just trying to enjoy the process to get to today. 
 I think I just let the nerves get a little bit to me. 
 Q.  Were you tired at all?  Playing a lot of days in a row? 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  I wasn't tired, no.  No, I was fine. 
 Q.  Were there a lot of fans out there watching? 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  In the beginning, no.  But then it started getting packed as the match went along. 
 Q.  All in all, sum up your week. 
 JILL CRAYBAS:  I think it was a great week.  I think I gained a lot of confidence today.  I mean, I know I can compete with the best.  I am just going to go out there and try to do it again in Amelia. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT