PACIFIC-12 CONFERENCE MEN'S MEDIA DAY
October 15, 2015
Gary Payton, II
Wayne Tinkle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  WAYNE TINKLE: Thanks for having us. Just a quick statement. Excited about this season for Oregon State. Some good momentum that we built last year laid the foundation, and got a great mix of veterans coming back from the team. That set things in motion, and then a good, young group coming in to add to our depth and our talent level.  
   
 Q. What's it been like for you to coach your son, so far, and how do you draw that line between being a father and being a coach?   
WAYNE TINKLE: Well, unfortunately he was in a boot most of the summer so he missed out on our team workouts. But he's been out there the last couple of weeks, and to be honest, after the first day I had to go up to my office and pinch myself afterwards because it was just kind of hit me all at once that here I am coaching my son now for the first time.   
But I'd be lying if I didn't tell you there were a couple of dinners at home since where there wasn't much conversation. Then we quickly kind of drew the line in the sand, when we're between the lines, it's coach and player and when we're off the court, it's father and son.   
But there was a day last week I got after him pretty good, wasn't there? We were just talking about that backstage. But it's going to be part of it. He's one of the guys. I'll yell at him, and he'll probably be cussing me out in the locker room behind my back sometime, so we'll just have to deal with it.  
   
 Q. You guys had tremendous success, 14‑0 home record. You were semifinalist, Coach of the Year, and then Garrett was outstanding Defensive Player of the Year. What did you say to him? Take us into the locker room. What did you say to him coming back this year with the expectation and bullseye on your back for the success that you guys had at home and for Gary personally?   
WAYNE TINKLE: I don't think people said you snuck up on people. I don't think you can do in the Pac‑12. It's so tough to win games. I don't think anybody's going to look past a team. But we knew we set some things in motion that people were going to be maybe a little more ready for us going into this year, and then you add to it that we had a pretty good recruiting class.   
So what we said to Gary, as a leader, we have to maintain the same hunger that we're picked last. Let's take that mentality into next season and make sure we stay humble and hungry and work the same way and stay as focused as we were a year ago.   
So that was a challenge to him as a leader on our team. And then individually he knew that there were some things that he had to do offensively to improve parts of his game this off‑season. Then really become a true mentor to the young kids by the way he goes about his habits on and off the court, day‑in and day‑out. He's done a great job to this point.  
   
 Q. You've had now a couple recruiting cycles in the Pac‑12. What's surprised you about coming into this conference and having to recruit against these programs?   
WAYNE TINKLE: No real surprises. I mean, even though we came from the Big Sky Conference before, you know the bigger schools, the bigger conferences get the most talent. I think the neat thing is for us identifying what kind of student‑athletes would thrive in Corvallis, and not necessarily getting guys that see what everybody else has and they're sorry they don't have them, but identified the many incredible things that Oregon State has from our professors to our administration, to the community, to our practice facility, on and on, and boy they're excited about that.   
So I think really getting used to that, identifying those things and then acting on them was probably the most immediate important aspect of recruiting that we had to get going.  
   
 Q. Gary, you obviously bring a really strong recruiting class, a lot of talent coming back. Do you feel like more people should be talking about Oregon State on a national level, and if so, why?   
GARY PAYTON II: If they do, they do. But like Coach said we don't take this like we did last year, walk into it, approach it the same way we did last year, and people in our conference, you know, if you're not first, you're last. So we're going to keep on listening to the coach and staff and trust them and have them get us where they took us last year.  
   
 Q. I was just wondering, for either of you guys as you maybe add a little more athleticism to the roster, are you expecting some of what you do to schematically change a lot because you pressed in the zone D last year, is that going to change? Is how you run offense going to change in the personnel turnover?   
WAYNE TINKLE: Did Larry tell you to ask me that? No, I think what we did defensively caused teams a lot of trouble, obviously, with the numbers that we put up. I think with five less seconds on the shot clock, it's only going to help us more.   
Offensively, yes, we certainly want to score more than 60 points a game. But we have to play that way. I was sharing a cab ride at an event with Bill Walton and he begged we play differently as an offense this year, if you can imagine that, but I said that's what we have to do to give ourselves a chance.   
Now with added depth and talent, certainly offensively doesn't mean we're going to take quick bad shots, but we will look to score a little bit more and score more off of our defense and be more aggressive there.  
   
 Q. Gary, could you tell us at what point in the season did it click for you that you trust coach? Tell us something about coach that we may not know?   
GARY PAYTON II: I think it was a little bit earlier than that. In my decision to stay at Oregon State we spoke on the phone. He let me know that defensive he was ready to let me go and do what I had to do, and from that moment I put all my trust into him and got behind him and had his back, so that was pretty easy. What was the second question?   
   
 Q. Tell us something we don't know about coach?   
GARY PAYTON II: Deep down he's really a big Teddy bear. Like deep down. I mean, not like‑‑  
WAYNE TINKLE: Careful.   
GARY PAYTON II: Let me rephrase that. He gets on us, and he might scare a couple young guys and stuff, but deep down I know he's a big Teddy bear.  
   
 Q. What would it mean to you to help lead Oregon State back to the tournament for the first time since your father was there? Is that something you and your father talk about, bringing Oregon State back for the NCAA tournament?   
GARY PAYTON II: I think bringing Oregon State back to the tournament would mean a lot, not just for me, but the city of Corvallis, and just the town, and most important the school and the fans and everybody who supports it for so long. Just bring that excitement back to the town. So I think it will be more beneficial for the town.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT