U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 12, 2015
Elizabeth Nagel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. I just overheard you saying you are ready to go play 18 more.  So I assume you were happy with your round?ELIZABETH NAGEL: After yesterday, I was just mentally drained.  Today I put myself in better positions and I made it a lot easier on myself and my caddie.  Hit a lot more fairways and greens.  When you do that on this course, you really put yourself in a position to make a lot of birdies.  I didn't make a lot of birdies, but made a lot of putts and that's what you've got to do at an Open.Q. Were there any adjustments coming into today compared to the first three rounds?  Any differences you noticed in your game?ELIZABETH NAGEL: We didn't practice after the round yesterday.  I made so many mental mistakes and was not feeling confident and putting myself in wrong places. The first two days we were totally fine and I've been hitting the ball well and doing a lot of good things. I knew today I had to get back in that zone and that feeling.  Dad and I right off the bat today just felt comfortable again.  Putter felt good, which is what really matters, yeah.Q. Hole 16, birdied today with the tees moved up.  What are your thoughts on the tees moved up and your performance on that hole today?ELIZABETH NAGEL: If I were a spectator, that's where I would be hanging out today.  I think that's going to be a game changer coming down the stretch.  I can see people making bogeys, make birdies, making eagles.  I had an eagle putt from above the hole that broke probably longer than -- it was like a 12-footer and I thought it was going to break six feet.  I couldn't hit it high enough really. Good hole today.  I'm glad they moved that hole tee up.  I think it will be really good TV and good coming down the stretch.Q. Overall, U.S. Open, making the cut, getting to this point, what are your impressions overall about this golf course?ELIZABETH NAGEL: This golf course has been great and the people have been better.  It's really amazing.  The town of Lancaster is little quirky and really fun, we've really enjoyed it.  I never thought in a million years that all these people would be here.  Breaking records, I guess, for galleries and things and it's just really impressive. I thought I would be nervous, but actually I feel more at home, maybe it's because we're closer to the Midwest.  I don't know, I just really welcome.  Everybody is so nice. In terms of my performance, making the cut was the goal.  I obviously didn't finish too high, but I'm happy to be here.  It's an honor to be here.  I'm thrilled that I qualified.  It's big for me in my career at this point, it's my rookie year.  Really happy to have this one under my belt and hope to be back in the future


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT