SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE FOOTBALL CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: ALABAMA VS GEORGIA
November 26, 2018
Quinnen Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We're joined by Quinnen Williams.   
QUINNEN WILLIAMS: (Indiscernible).  Georgia, they've got a great coaching staff.  (Indiscernible).   
 Q.  You've been pleased with it and also what do you think about Georgia's offensive unit and what you're going to have to do to contain them Saturday?  How do you think your defense has played over the last three or four games?  And also what do you think of the Bulldogs offense, and what do you think you'll have to do to contain them on Saturday?  
QUINNEN WILLIAMS: (Indiscernible) fast start like we want to.  But we get (indiscernible).  And we gotta come in and go full head of steam for this SEC game.  We're preparing for it now.   
And looking at the Georgia offense, they've got a great running scheme and great quarterback that led their team to the national championship last year.  He came back, he's doing very well this year.  And a great offensive line up front starting with their center, he's very good and a great run game with the running backs that they have.   
 Q.  Could you talk about Mack Wilson's influence on the defense as you guys got better and better as the season progressed?  
QUINNEN WILLIAMS: Him and Dylan Moses both, man, great effort, him and Dylan Moses, being leaders on the defense.  And it's just a tribute to them, with their leadership-wise, the people who came before them and the people who are looking up to those guys, they've been leading the defense well, giving the calls and making sure the defense is playing it straight.   
 Q.  Quinnen, can you estimate how many snaps you might have got in the championship game against Georgia last year?  And did you expect that you might make this kind of impact once you started to get as much playing time as you've gotten?  
QUINNEN WILLIAMS: Last year, in the Georgia game I think I got, like, one snap.  And this year, (indiscernible) I've been trying to do my part, do what I'm supposed to do for the defense, just execute to my abilities.   
 Q.  And you mentioned the center for Georgia, Lamont Gaillard.  What in particular impressed you when you watched film?  
QUINNEN WILLIAMS: Just the way he come off the ball, the strength that he have in the run game, and just the overall smartness that he have.  He played, started last year in the championship game, and he blocked -- had the block, big tackle blocking Da'Ron Payne.  He's a very good player, smart up front, lead the offensive line, make all the calls and stuff like that.   
 Q.  I was wanting to know where you think you've gotten improvement-wise?  Where do you think your strength is this year, and where do you think you need to get better moving forward?  
QUINNEN WILLIAMS: My strength is just breaking down the offense film-wise, so I can know what's going to come in the game.  Just game-wise, I look at the offense and formations and stuff and break down like the play before half and that's one of my strengths I have.   
I have a lot of things to work on.  But the main one is being patient.  Like sometimes I overplay my duties and overdo what I'm supposed to and it bites me in the butt because the running back will cut back or the quarterback will step up in the gap that I was supposed to being pass rushing in.  So that's a big one.   
 Q.  And in terms of Tua leader-wise, even on the practice field, how much does Tua make the defense better on this football team?  
QUINNEN WILLIAMS: He's the best in the country.  So he challenges us to get out there and discourage them.  He challenges the defensive backs to cover the receivers.  So the whole offense in general challenges the defense.  I feel the whole defense challenges the offense.  And it goes hand in hand, the competition.   
 Q.  On social media today and yesterday Terrell Lewis and Mack Wilson teased a potential comeback for Terrell Lewis in this SEC Championship game.  How big of an impact would he make on this game and is he returning?  
QUINNEN WILLIAMS: I really don't know about what's going on with social media with them.  I haven't seen it.  But if he do, he do it -- I don't really know right now.   
 Q.  If he does come back, how big of an impact would he make on this defense?  
QUINNEN WILLIAMS: I don't know if he going to come back or not.  I don't know if, like -- it's up to the coaches, up to the training staff, up to them.  So I can't answer that for you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT