ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
June 15, 2019
Gulbadin Naib
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








South Affrica - 131/1 (28.4), Afghanistan - 125 (34.1)
Q. The game really turned after the rain break when it was five wickets for eight runs, was such a short spell.  What was the mood in the camp when that started happening?  Did you kind of see the danger approaching?
GULBADIN NAIB: Nothing special.  But if you're going well and in the middle you just take it slightly back, so maybe the momentum going.  So maybe it's a game turning point there, so when the rains come.  So I think we missed something from there.  And also we did not well in the batting.  That's why.
Q. Can you just tell us about the thinking for leaving out Najibullah?  Was there an injury there at all?
GULBADIN NAIB: No, he's fine.  But we gave that chance to Asghar Afghan.  He's our senior.  Najib is a good cricketer, so he did well the last two games so we gave the opportunity to Asghar.  So because of my first offer is Asghar.  So he's now fully fit.  That's why he is in spot.
Q. How concerned are you after last week losing 4 for 4 that the same thing happened again a week later with five wickets going down for eight runs?
GULBADIN NAIB: Every time I'm saying that to the batter, so if you control our nerves or we play calm cricket in the middle, so maybe it's a key point.  But we're missing something there.  We're not just -- everyone just trying to put some totals on the board.
But if we are still on the wicket, so maybe in the end we have a good opportunity to put a good total.  So, again, we didn't play 50-overs game.  So if we played a 50-over game, it's pretty good for the bowlers and the bowl, but we did not last couple of matches.
Q. Is that due to a lack of big match experience do you think?
GULBADIN NAIB: No, if you look we also have played a lot of cricket the last two or three years.  It's a cricket and also in this kind of stage, so obviously you have a little bit of pressure on the team.  And you are also looking for the ball.  If you look for the conditions to also we lost the toss.
It's slightly on pressure this way.  So maybe we didn't take the responsibilities in the middle, especially for the batter.  So there's nothing difference.
Q. Imran Tahir is obviously a world-class bowler, but it kind of looked like today that he caused you by surprise a bit, didn't get three?
GULBADIN NAIB: Obviously if you look for we, like, also have a good spinner on the team so we're playing every day in the nets.  But we're not expecting like Imran Tahir like that.  But, yeah, he's a world-class spinner now; he did well also in the IPL.
But we also used, are use to it, the spins in the camps.  So we didn't expect like this kind of spinning he bowled now.  He bowled really well.  So again, credit goes to the batter, so if you take the responsibility so maybe it will be easy.  But credit go to Imran Tahir.
Q. We've talked about the batting before.  And you've said that batsmen have played poor shots or wrong shots at the wrong time.  Today you played a lot of dark balls at the beginning of the innings.  Were you almost too careful today?
GULBADIN NAIB: If we look for -- because if you look for we didn't play -- we played the last three games, we didn't play 50-overs game.  So the plan is there.  So we take our time on the wicket.  So that dark ball is not that much an issue.  So you should play 50-overs, end of the innings.  So we didn't again.
But if you have wickets in the end so maybe in the last 10, 15 overs, then we can do anything.  So, again, we didn't -- also we're giving the message to the batter take the time on the wicket and just go normally.  So again we did miss something.
Q. Were you surprised at how careful South Africa were in their innings, considering how small a total they were chasing?
GULBADIN NAIB: South Africa, also they are also struggling on the batting side.  South Africa is a good side.  But if you look for the last three games, they didn't well.  So I think today we have a good opportunity to play -- were playing against them but we missed them.  So credit goes again to the South Africa bowlers and also the conditions, it's bad luck we missed the toss.  So I think South Africa is a better team.  So but it's cricket, so nothing can say anything.  So before that game -- but we can try and also we try, but credit goes to the South Africa side.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT