ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
June 1, 2019
Gulbadin Naib
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Australia - 209-3, Afghanistan - 207
Q. We chatted yesterday and you were saying you backed your batsmen.  You got to 207 today, but it was a scrappy performance.  Do you feel you let yourselves down a little?
GULBADIN NAIB: Yeah, if you look at the wickets -- it is a game of only ten hours at the start of the day, so we didn't gauge at the start of the day, so that is why we could not get the momentum we needed.  That is why we could only score 200.
Q. You thought that was a bit low?
GULBADIN NAIB: Yeah, it is a low score on this kind of surface.  So if you batted faster, you should be 250 or 270 plus runs on this kind of team against Australia or like other, so we can't give you any chance, so this is why we slightly miss out some runs.
Q. Do you think you were sloppy with the batting?  You gave away a lot of wickets.  Was it bad batting rather than good bowling?
GULBADIN NAIB: Yeah, if you look at the start of the innings, we lost two wickets in two overs.  Shahzad and Hashmat didn't bat well and also in the middle, also we think positive things in the middle and one time me and Mujeeb score a 90 partnership, so we just thought we can score 200, 250 plus, but credit goes to the Australian side, they bowled really well.
Q. Everybody knows about Mitchell Starc and Pat Cummins.  They did okay today at the start.  How did you see Nathan Coulter-Nile and Marcus Stoinis, that middle overs, how did you see them go?
GULBADIN NAIB: When you face Starc and Cummins and after you face Nathan Lyon and Stoinis, so they did not like start another, so it's quite quick, but in the middle of the other seamers, so he just bowled the length.
So then you take ages so this is why we missed the momentum there.
Q. What lessons do you take from this result?  You are playing a very good side.  There are some very other powerful sides in the competition.  What lessons do you take from this in terms of your tactics and how you treat the guys going forward?
GULBADIN NAIB: Definitely, we can play against these kind of teams, so you should take positive things from them, so they can't give you any single chance off mistakes.  Obviously, we have a tough match upcoming.
Every team especially for us is a tough team, so we are just waiting for our turn.  So also this kind of team you know it, so they didn't give you a single chance but they are coming really hard and harder how they did today.
So, obviously, we just look and we just take a positive thing from today and going for the next day.
Q. What did you make of the crowd reaction to Warner and Smith today?  Were you expecting that?  Did you think they would be booed?
GULBADIN NAIB: (Smiling) I have a lot of respect for Smith and Warner, obviously, but it's a crowd audience.  You cannot do anything against them, so they are cheering.  Sometimes they like they did, so if you focus to the crowd and then you didn't focus on your game...
So I think how we want to play so credit goes to them.  They ignore the crowd (smiling).
Q. It's clear that the crowd was very much on your side.  Did you notice that and what impact did it have on you and the team?
GULBADIN NAIB: Obviously, if you have this kind of number of audience back here and they are supporting you and you know your side, so the difficulty you have -- you take a lot of positive things against the crowd.
So the crowd all support Afghanistan and there was a huge number of Afghans in the crowd there, so it gave a lot of energy on the ground for the boys.  So, hopefully, you can see all of we are playing this kind of crowd.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT