ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
June 24, 2019
Gulbadin Naib
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Bangladesh - 262/7 (50), Afghanistan - 200 (47)
Q. Gulbadin, are you still happy with the decision you made at the toss?
GULBADIN NAIB: Yeah, I'm happy with the toss, but I if you look for the match, so we miss some couple of catches and gave some extra runs, like we misfield.  Like if you counted around 35, 30 runs, we give it.  If you saw that one, so maybe the total is not that much. The wicket is like slow, and it's good for batting.  So we look to start well.  But praise goes to Shakib.  He bowled really well.  Because of misfielding we missed the opportunity again.
Q. Captain, do you think 260 was chasable on this wicket?
GULBADIN NAIB: Yeah, if you look for the wicket.  So it's chasable.  But we won the toss.  It's a good thing.  But if you look, we start really well.  Again, we didn't bowl in the right area in first ten overs, and they scored like 50-something.  And after, we realized that it's a chasable score.  But one time we -- like I said before, we give it extra runs, like a misfield, some couple of catches.  If we count it, it's around 30, 35 runs.
Q. Captain, you had already mentioned about Shakib Al Hasan, but how tremendous was he today with bowling and batting, and do you think he made all the difference?
GULBADIN NAIB: If you look, he's world Number 1  all-rounder.  He has a lot of experience, so he took the time on the wicket when he batted.  So he batted really well.  Also, he bowled really well, according to the plan, and he just -- the wicket is not that much turning for them, especially for Bangladesh bowling, but he bowled in the right areas.  So if you look for his bowling spots, he bowled in the right, right spots.  So that's why he got the wickets. Also, like myself, so I think we -- the turnaround wicket was my one, so I just pushed the ball and drive it to the fielder's hand.  So I think the wicket is not that much difficult for us. It's good for batting.  It's slow, but it's good for batting.
Q. There have been quite a few changes in the top order, especially the opening pair.  Has the lack of stability affected the team at the top?
GULBADIN NAIB: Yeah, we give the opportunity to Samiullah Shinwari.  He also batted really well, but especially we have openers, but they didn't do well (earlier), that's why we give the opportunity to Rahmat Shah.  He did really well.  He batted ten overs, so he fought really well. But if you look, again, this kind of team, if you look to the total, we did a lot of mistakes in the fielding, especially.  We drop a couple of catches.  One time we just think this will be chasable because we have nine, ten -- Rashid also batting and Dawlat also capable to hit big shots also.  But it's not that much effect when we drop the spinner -- openers, but I think Sami also played good innings.  So that's why we give the opportunity to Sami.
Q. Captain, are you a little disappointed with the performance of Rashid Khan?  Do you think this was probably one of the matches where he would have bowled better maybe?
GULBADIN NAIB: Yeah, if we look for Rashid, where I want him, like he not doing -- he trying hard.  He giving his 100 percent, but if you look for the fielding side, so I'm a little disappointed about the fielding.  He's also disappointed about the fielding.  One time he's very angry in the field.  That's why if you not field well , he also upset.  Rashid is one of those players, so he trying in every department, especially in fielding, bowling, and also batting. Again, we give it extra runs, and that's why one time Rashid look very upset in the middle.  So I asked him just keep relaxed and just focus on your bowling.  So I think he missed his momentum there because of fielding.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT