ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
June 23, 2019
Gulbadin Naib
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Congratulations on yesterday's performance.  Considering that you have already played on this pitch and your performance have improved significantly in the last two matches, you think against Bangladesh this is probably one of your best chances to register a victory?  
GULBADIN NAIB: Yeah, we played on this wicket, so it's a similar wicket.  But a cricket game is dependent on the presence or how you're playing, especially England conditions.  We didn't know about the weather especially.  So how's the weather?  Yesterday was a good day, a sunny day.  It's pretty good for, especially for both sides.   
So, yeah, we lost the game, but we did a lot of things good.  We did well, but we're trying to do more and more in next game against Bangladesh.  Bangladesh now, they're also doing really well, especially in the batting department.  They chased 340-something against West Indies.  So I think it's one of the best matches or the best innings for the Bangladesh side.  So credit goes to them. So how Shakib is doing for his team, I think it's tremendous.  It depends on the day.  We're looking for tomorrow, so inshallah.  Now we're doing better and better day by day.  This is a good sign for Afghanistan.   
 Q.  Captain, a couple of questions.  Firstly, you guys consider Bangladesh a rival.  Is that how you see Bangladesh?  And secondly, you've also played -- you yourself have played in the domestic competitions in Bangladesh.  There's a lot of other players who have played.  How do you see Bangladesh as a rival?  Do you think Bangladesh are fearful of your spin attack?  
GULBADIN NAIB: Yeah, if you look for Bangladesh cricket, they're doing well the last couple of years.  When Mortaza became the captain of Bangladesh, they improved really well in every department.  Some countries, like Asia countries, they struggle outside, like Australia, New Zealand, especially in England.  I think last four years they showed their skills, especially Bangladesh players, how they improved their skills, especially on the batting side.  So I think credit goes to Mortaza.  They lead the team really well.  Yeah, we played a lot of cricket in Bangladesh domestic, so the structure of domestic cricket in Bangladesh especially is very good.  So it's improving day by day, especially the 50-over form there.  I played one season.  I enjoyed it a lot there.  It's quite -- it's really good.  This is the cricket, so if you play domestic as well, so automatically your performance coming in a high level at this stage.  So the result is now you're seeing the Bangladesh side is really good.   
I'm really impressed from the side of Bangladesh, how they're playing, how they start the tournament.  So I think now we cannot take it easy with Bangladesh.  It's a good side.  They proved themselves in this stage.  So inshallah, it depends on the day. Like we played yesterday against India, but one thing my team, Afghanistan team is not an easy team.  Yeah, we have first four games we played really badly.  Last two games everyone knows.  So inshallah, we're improving day by day, and maybe tomorrow will be the best day for us, inshallah.   
 Q.  Gulbadin, you've said that you've seen big improvements from your team over the last couple of days.  Just give us a pointer as to what you've seen.  What changes have you seen in the team?  Is it a mental thing or more of a skill thing, do you think?  
GULBADIN NAIB: Yeah, because the start of the tournament, I say that you have better side now in top ten teams.  Every team is a good side.  Every team there is the best side, yeah, we have first four games or three games, we struggle a lot in these conditions, especially where we played.  So the surface and the wickets is total difference.  We didn't expect it.  So the wickets was like that where we played.  So it's totally different in the last two games.  So it's quite good for us.  It's like very good wicket for us especially, so it's like Asian conditions, the ball turning, so last game against India.   
But one thing, so the players, everyone just trying to do well, especially the senior players.  They have pressure, but every tournament together we're discussing the small, small things.  What's wrong?  What do we want to do where we can do better?  So then we're sitting with everyone and just discussing the issues.  I think we're doing well the last two, three games, so inshallah. Everyone wants to do well for their country and do their best for their country.  Nobody wants to do bat or wrong anything.  So everyone is playing for our country.  So they're trying to do well for the country and for the people.  I think nothing that much difference here in cricket.  The players are playing a lot of cricket all over the world.  It's a big stage.  Obviously, when you're playing this kind of team, you're under pressure for the first start.  So I think now everything is going well now.   
 Q.  Gulbadin, is it going to be the battle of Afghan spinners versus Bangladesh batting?  
GULBADIN NAIB: I say it before, Bangladesh start really well in this tournament, but not only on Bangladesh, any one team, like yesterday you saw it against India is the best side.  It's the best batting attack all over the world.  So if the wicket helps our spinners, so maybe it's very difficult for everyone, not only Bangladesh.   
I know Bangladesh also have -- they show their skills now in this tournament, how they played, and they chased 350, 340 against West Indies.  So I think credit goes to them.  Our spinners are one of the best spin attacks in the world.  When wicket suitable for us, it's very difficult, not only for Bangladesh, but for everyone.   
I know, inshallah, tomorrow is a new day, and it depends on the day.  So we can try to do well and the right thing, so the last two games we did a lot of things good.  So Inshallah, we can see tomorrow, Inshallah.   
 Q.  Gulbadin, as you say, Shakib Al Hasan is playing tremendously.  How do you think you can stop him?  
GULBADIN NAIB: No one can say for anyone that you can stop him or them for all.  It depends on the day.  Tomorrow is a new day, is a fresh day.  So Shakib is not only he played here good cricket, he's also playing a lot of stuff in the back couple of years.  So he's one of the best players of Bangladesh. Also, he's playing together with Nabi and Rashid in franchise cricket.  He is the best.  So it depends on the day.  So if tomorrow is his day, so maybe he will play good cricket.  So if today is our side, maybe it's very difficult for anyone, not only Shakib.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT