CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: ALABAMA VS OKLAHOMA
December 27, 2018
Tua Tagovailova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You said 80 to 85 percent yesterday.  Is it better today?  
TUA TAGOVAILOVA: I mean, we're still making progress.  Feels great.  You know, we're still doing rehab at the moment.  You know, hopefully leading up to the game it'll feel a lot better.   
 Q.  Have you made up your mind you'll be able to play at a high level?  
TUA TAGOVAILOVA: I believe so.  I believe we'll be able to feel a lot more comfortable in the pocket, moving around.  You know, yesterday was a testament to that.  I got the opportunity to do a lot of things in practice that I wasn't able to do the last week.   
 Q.  Can you take us through the reason for the surgery?  Was it done just to speed up the recovery?  
TUA TAGOVAILOVA: Yeah, it was done so that I would be able to come back and get the opportunity to play in the playoff.  I think our doctors have done a tremendous job, and our athletic training staff has done a tremendous job of helping me rehab and getting to this point.   
 Q.  Pardon me if I missed this, but 80 to 85 percent, is that how you feel like you're playing, or is that the percentage that you feel you are right now?  
TUA TAGOVAILOVA: That's the percentage that I feel I'm at right now.  Then again, I feel I'm still making a tremendous amount of progress with the amount of rehab and therapy that I'm getting from our athletic trainers.   
 Q.  Is it the expectation that you (indiscernible)?  
TUA TAGOVAILOVA: Well, the expectation is that I'd be at 100 percent for Saturday and I'd be able to play.   
 Q.  Talk about the mindset this year; is it different when you're not coming off the bench?  
TUA TAGOVAILOVA: Yeah, it's definitely been different.  I feel like I've gone through more injuries than what I would have expected.  In the spring I ended up fracturing my hand, then throughout the season I ended up injuring my ACL and then my ankle.  It's definitely been different.  I'd say the biggest thing as far as my mindset, I don't think anything has changed there.  Just a new team.  We've got to have the same goals as the team that played here last year did, and what we want to do as a team, and we want to go to the National Championship, and this is just another opportunity, and it's an opportunity for us to achieve what we want to achieve.   
 Q.  What went into the decision to play left-handed since a lot of people think that's a detriment?  
TUA TAGOVAILOVA: Well, that decision was just on my dad.  My father at a young age, my father made me throw with my left.  I like to hold the ball with my left.  I guess I felt like he was the only lefty in our family, and he wanted one of his kids, I guess, to be a lefty, as well.  Other than that, I do everything else with my right.  I kick with my right.  I write with my right.  I eat with my right.  The only thing I do is throw, shoot with my left.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT