BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
October 30, 2012
Michael Llorda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. LLODRA/D. Gimeno‑Traver
  7‑5, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French, please.   
   
 Q.   I have a general question.   You're top 127.   It's a serious question.   How do you assess your career?   How do you see maybe not this end of season but rather the beginning of next year?   Are you going to get organized?   Are you going to play only singles or any doubles?   What do you expect for 2013?  
MICHAEL LLODRA:   To be true and honest, I don't really know what my program or schedule will be for next year, but I will play singles and doubles as much as I can.   I will make a decision at the end of next year, although I have some idea of what will happen at the end of '13.  
Next year I'm going to play with Nicolas Mahut doubles for the whole year.   It is official.   I'm saying this to you tonight.   And we want to have good results in Grand Slams.   My goal for the singles, it's to become top 100 unless I can really win this tournament this week, for example.   
But my schedule will be similar to the one of this year.   I will give priority to my family, but still try to play as much as I can.   I have a tough schedule, singles, doubles, especially in the end of the year.   It's quite busy.   
But to answer your question precisely, I don't really know exactly what I'm going to do because I don't know what my ranking will be, etcetera.  
   
 Q.   Are you still eager to play?  
MICHAEL LLODRA:   Yes.   What is tough is to be away from my family so often.   I knew that with a third kid it would be complicated.   What I want to do is see my children grow up and take care of them.   I'm at an age where I need to ask the right questions to myself and make decisions.  
So little by little I'm becoming more mature about all these issues, but one thing is for certain:   I will play singles and doubles very seriously next year, and then I will make a decision.  
   
 Q.   Your family being very important, why didn't you choose to play doubles only, to have a lighter schedule?  
MICHAEL LLODRA:   No, because I enjoy myself a lot playing singles.   As today, for example, and I am competitive.  
Of course sometimes some matches are easier than others, especially on fast surfaces.   I don't think you will see me much playing on the slow surfaces next year.  
But I still want to enjoy myself playing singles.   I believe I have a good level still, so I will take advantage of it next year as much as I can.   I'm not sure it's going to be the last year, but maybe.  
   
 Q.   Do you enjoy playing tournaments like this one here?  
MICHAEL LLODRA:   Yes, here it's ideal because it's school holidays, I have my family, I have my children, I have my friends, and I also had so many good experiences in this tournament that I really want to keep playing in the tournament.  
   
 Q.   But do you know clearly what you're not going to play if you don't know what you're going to play?  
MICHAEL LLODRA:   Yes.   There are some things I won't do: slow surfaces like Indian Wells.   I'm not going to play on them, especially after what happened last year.  
I think I retired from Indian Wells for the time being.   Now, there are other tournaments.  
   
 Q.   England?  
MICHAEL LLODRA:   Some tournaments I like to play.   Last year in Rome I lost against Del Potro after a very long match.   I didn't win many matches on clay, but I did play well on this surface.   
Monte‑Carlo is not very far from where I live and my wife likes it.   She can go to the beach.   No, more seriously there are some tournaments I'm not going to play.  
   
 Q.   Are you going to practice with Stephane, or are you going to change?   
MICHAEL LLODRA:   We'll see at the end of the season where we are standing, but things are going very well with Steph, he's a great guy.   So we'll see.  
   
 Q.   Davis Cup is still a priority?  
MICHAEL LLODRA:   Yes.   It is "the" priority, the main goal for next year.   Everything will be organized around Davis Cup for next year.   
I always love to play the competitions I like, and Davis Cup is my priority.   Of course it's going to be difficult to deserve my place in the team, especially with Arnaud, but I will try to do my best.  
   
 Q.   Is it going to be your last season next year?  
MICHAEL LLODRA:   I don't know.   The ideal season is just enjoying myself as much as I can.   I never was obsessed by rankings.   What I want to do is do well in the tournaments I like, like the French tournaments, Wimbledon, here, try to leave with good results under my belt.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT