ROGERS CUP MEN
August 9, 2011
Michael Llorda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. LLODRA/M. Youzhny
  3-6, 6-3, 7-6 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
  
  Q. You didn't serve and volley too much early on. Tell me what Mikhail was doing well early on and how you got through that as the match progressed.   
 MICHAEL LLODRA: I mean, it's my style, you know. I have to do a lot of serve and volley because, you know, I play not like shit, but it's difficult for me to stay from the baseline.   
 Anyway, it's my game, so I have to do that to make a lot of provocation. If I have to play from the baseline, you know, I have a good chance to lose. I know that.   
 I'm lefty and I try to use a lot my serve and volley and also to change, you know, the rhythm during the rallies, to play slice and sometimes flat.   
 So, no, that's my game.   
  
  Q. Was he mixing it up a little bit early on? There was a quick pace to the match. What was he doing well early and what did you do at the end there?  
 MICHAEL LLODRA: I mean, when you play serve and volley against anybody, it's difficult. You have to serve well. You have to make a good volley to be in a good condition. It doesn't matter who do you play. If I play Djokovic, I have to play the same way. It's my game. Even if sometimes it's not working, I have to continue.   
 Sometimes when it becomes to be tight, it's better for me, especially in a tiebreak, close to the end of the set, I think I have more chances to put pressure. They can be afraid sometimes.   
 THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
  
  Q. That was a very good win.   
 MICHAEL LLODRA: Yes, a good win. I hadn't played a lot in singles lately. I broke a rib last month. So I had to pull out from Washington because it was hurting too much and I didn't want to take any risks.   
 I still tried to play doubles, which I won. But coming here I decided to play my best during the singles. I knew my level wouldn't be very high, but I was ready to give it my all.   
 I believe I was mentally very solid in the tiebreaker in this match, and my rib didn't hurt.   
  
  Q. Can a rib heal in a month?   
 MICHAEL LLODRA: During 17 days I couldn't do anything. In Washington I started playing 45 minutes a day, but I was still afraid to play singles. The doctor said a rib can heal in three or four weeks. It can take up to six weeks normally, so I'm happy now that I don't feel pain anymore.   
  
  Q. Did you break your rib playing tennis?  
 MICHAEL LLODRA: Not at all. It was around a swimming pool. I'm not going to tell you what I was doing. Stupid things, of course.   
  
  Q. How about your match against Gulbis?   
 MICHAEL LLODRA: I played him three times already, once for the quallies for the US Open, once in the French Open, and once at a challenger. I think he's playing well again. He played L.A. He beat Ferrero. I guess he's in a good state of mind. He sometimes is inconsistent, but if he has a good day, he can be very dangerous.   
  
  Q. Are you traveling alone?  
 MICHAEL LLODRA: I am alone. I just have a friend living nearby with me here.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT