ROGERS CUP MEN
August 12, 2010
Michael Llorda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. FEDERER/M. Llodra
  7-6, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. You've been on the tour for a long time, but you hadn't played Roger since 1999. What was that like for you?  
 MICHAEL LLODRA: Yeah, it was a good match, which I lost, but, you know, today it was different than the two first days. I didn't serve so well, but, you know, I think I have a good chances in the first set. And against this kind of player, I have to serve much better.   
 Normally it's my best shot, and today it was a little bit windy and I couldn't find, you know, the good throw for my serve. It was a good match.  
  
  Q. Is that why you tried the underhand serve, or was that something you just decided to do?  
 MICHAEL LLODRA: No, at 15-40, I just want to make something special. (Laughter.)  
  
  Q. Have you ever done that before?  
 MICHAEL LLODRA: Yeah. But not in the match. (Laughter.)  
  
  Q. There was a shot in the middle of the first set where Federer, he kind of -- it was like a heavy volley with a ton of spin, and it landed at your feet but then it kind of almost bounced and hit you in the face, I think?  
 MICHAEL LLODRA: It was at the beginning of the second, no? No, no, it was like this. You know, when you have a guy like me, to put pressure, to go a lot of chip and charge, you know, sometimes you can receive a ball.  
 It was the only chance, you know, to pass me on this one, so doesn't matter. It's okay.   
  
  Q. But, I mean, is it kind of unusual that he'd be able to put that much spin on a ball and...   
 MICHAEL LLODRA: No, no, no, I receive one ball here two days ago on doubles, Soderling return. It was fast, also.   
  
  Q. In the second set you seemed to kind of play a little looser and have a little more fun, like you have the pirouette shot that you hit, and also one volley between the legs and of course the underhand serve.  
 Roger said that it was a real pleasure playing against someone who served and volleyed and played kind of the old way. Do you take that as a compliment?  
 MICHAEL LLODRA: I don't know. Maybe we are two or three more players, you know, who serve and volley. Unfortunately today I was not perfect with my serve. Normally, you know, I do more serve and volley with my first serve, but, I mean, there is not too much player on the tour so when you play a guy like Federer, not playing often a guy like me.   
 So I think I am -- not good chances, but I have some opportunities during the match, and I knew before the match I have to be aggressive, and at the beginning, especially, you know, make a double fault on his serve because I think he knew I'm gonna do chip and charge, so it's different, you know.   
 It's the same for me. I knew I have to make a very good match to beat Roger, and it was different when I play Almagro. I know I have to play good match, very good match, my mind is different.  
  
  Q. Federer, now that he has Paul Annacone advising him, did you see any difference?  
 MICHAEL LLODRA: No, it's tough to judge. He play only two matches. But, I mean, if he choose Paul, you know, and it's a good idea. He got a lot of experience, so I wish them, you know, luck.   
  
  Q. Why did you exchange shirts with Roger?  
 MICHAEL LLODRA: You know, for me, you know, Roger is in the legends, so it's a good present for my kids. (Laughter.)  
  
  Q. What did you say to him when you exchanged?  
 MICHAEL LLODRA: I talk in French, but I say, You have no chance. Give me your shirt. (Laughter.)   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT