U.S. OPEN
August 25, 2008
Michael Llorda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  M. LLODRA/T. Gabashvili  
6-3, 5-7, 7-6, 7-6  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How would you assess your form at the moment? Is it good enough to beat Murray?  
 MICHAEL LLODRA: It was not a good match, but the final thing, I won, so. In tennis sometimes you don't play your best tennis but you have to win the match if you can. So today it was the most important thing.   
  
  Q. Are you playing well enough to beat someone like Murray, who except for Beijing appears to be in a good North American run of form?  
 MICHAEL LLODRA: Yeah, it's totally different now - it's US Open, so I saw his match in Beijing. He didn't play good, but, you know, every week, anything can happen.   
 So I don't know how he played today, but it's going to be tough, anyway, for me, so I have to play good and we see what's happening on the court.  
 But I think I have some good stroke, you know, to disturb him. We'll see what's happening.  
  
  Q. Do you think you've got the sort of game hat can upset him, because he does tend to go back and want to counter-punch and then play his two-handed...   
 MICHAEL LLODRA: I saw his match against Richard in Wimbledon, and after the match I said, if he can play this kind of match, he was down two sets to love, and win after, so I was, you know, impressed. He plays a lot of, you know, good rallies, and it's going to be tough for sure.  
  
  Q. What can you do to disrupt the way he likes to get into a rhythm?   
 MICHAEL LLODRA: That's my secret, you know. (laughter.)  
  
  Q. I won't tell him.   
 MICHAEL LLODRA: Yeah, I know you guys, journalists. You say you don't say anything, and then after you say some things, so -- no.   
 I'm going to play my game, you know. I do serve and volley, so I have to play like normal, you know, and to put some pressure on his serve. So I play against him, you know, in doubles in Beijing, and I play very solid, so I don't know. You can ask him, you know.   
  
  Q. He says you're very difficult.   
 MICHAEL LLODRA: Yeah, so that's good. Always. It's the same for me.   
 So, no, it's going to be a good match, for sure.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT