TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 20, 2005
Michael Llorda
Fabrice Santoro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MICHAEL LLODRA: Yeah, we heard last year we're going to change the score system. Is going to be new for everyone. First, I think it's important we have to play two sets, straight sets. I'm not support maybe the no ad, but I like the super tiebreak, the third set super tiebreak. I think it's a good idea to promote -- not to promote, but to change the format. I would say it's good. We have to try, and we'll see at the end of the next year what's going on. But we have to try to change something. 

FABRICE SANTORO: I think the third set tiebreak was almost the same as the first set tiebreaker, except the end. It makes a big difference. But we were up 5-2 in the first set tiebreak, and it went back to 5-4, then 5-All. Third set tiebreak, 5-2 again, and back to 5-4. At 5-4, he hit maybe the best volley of the match at the most important point. After this point, you know, I was very more relaxed. But all match was very intense for us from the first, second game till the last point of the match. I think the match was very tight. We had many occasions; they had some, too. They were up a set and a break. At the end there is always a winner in tennis. 

MICHAEL LLODRA: Yeah, it's the last match together. But I always remember, you know, all the matches we play, the first one and the last one is going to be maybe in my memories. It's good to finish like that. We know after Bercy when we lose first round against Black, Ullyett, it was a terrible match for us. We say, We cannot finish like that. So it's important to go to Shanghai and to maybe play our best tennis. That we do. We are very happy to finish like that. Now it's a new -- not new life, but new -- he's going to play with Nenad next year, and I'm going to focus more on my singles. It's going to change. Next year, it's going to change some for me a lot because normally I play with Fabrice, and next year I'm going to play with someone else. You know, I remember a lot of thing, you know, when we won Australian Open, final in Roland Garros. It's too much. But it's fabulous to play with Fabrice. Is tough to say something because we just win like half an hour ago. But it's very good. 

FABRICE SANTORO: Was not enough (smiling)? 
MICHAEL LLODRA: Yeah, it was like that, you know. I was in the zone, like the Americans say. But, no, it's a good way to finish. 

FABRICE SANTORO: Well, you know, yes, it's unique. My game is unique, but for me it's very natural. For me it's natural. I always play like this since I'm six years old. I hold my racquet with two hands. I like to play soft balls. I don't have the power of the new generation players, like Michael. But I think that is just my game. This is just the best way for me to win tennis matches. 

MICHAEL LLODRA: Yeah, it's a good question. No, nobody was in my locker this morning. It's tough to find some good things to do, you know, before the match. We have to be concentrate. So after the match or maybe tonight you will see the good Michael. 

FABRICE SANTORO: Well, I think it's fair. It's very normal that Roger Federer has more attention than us. But the attention we had during the whole week for doubles is great. The atmosphere on the court for the final today was just unbelievable. When people are enjoying a match, it doesn't matter if it's a singles or for doubles. You can see in the crowd during your match that they are happy to be there and they are enjoying the match like we did on the court. Singles will be always better -- I mean, not better, but bigger than doubles. That's normal and very fair. 

MICHAEL LLODRA: It was our first visit in China. It's beautiful. We love to play there. Like say Fabrice, the atmosphere all this week for the doubles was unbelievable. We are very happy to win there. All the crowd was support them during the match, support Nenad and Leander. But it was a good atmosphere and we feel good on the court. It's very important when all the players are feeling great on the court. No, we are very happy to be there in China. 

MICHAEL LLODRA: No, I like to do that, to give all my clothes. But it was the second time only, when we won the first or the second Australian Open and here. That's not usual. 

FABRICE SANTORO: The new scoring system is not made to kill the game. It's the opposite. It's made to improve the game. I think the scoring system will stay the same in the Grand Slam, probably in the Masters Cup next year. But in older events, it's better to play shorter matches, to get the attention of the singles player, and to push maybe the singles players to play more doubles. If at the end more singles players play doubles, it will be better for the game, better for dubs, better for the tournament and the crowd. 

FABRICE SANTORO: Well, I don't know. I have my game. It doesn't matter if I'm this big or this big (indicating big or small). If I would be like Marat, I would play the same game with my hands because it doesn't matter the length of my leg or my arm. What I'm doing when I hit the ball, it's just the best way for me to play tennis. Yes, he says he doesn't like to play against me. I think it's more in his mind than what happened on the court. Every time I'm playing him, I'm not that confident. You know, I know that he can beat me pretty quickly. But at the end I beat him most of the time. I would try to do it again. 


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT