BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
October 29, 2013
Michael Llorda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







G. DIMITROV/M. Llodra
  6‑7, 6‑3, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French, please. 

Q.   That was a pretty good start after the first set, so when did it start to go wrong against Dimitrov?
MICHAEL LLODRA:   The difference was when I started missing my first serves.   I really had difficulties serving really hard lately, so if my first serve is not perfect, then he returns well and it's tough for me.   He's very good in passing shots.   He's extremely fast. 
Well, in the second set I played a loose game and I got broken.   But after that, I was up Love‑40, and it was a let that went out, unfortunately.   It was very close for me to be able to lead in that set, and I got broken again.
He is extremely fit right now.   He's in good shape, and that made a difference in important points.

Q.   Between Basel and here, did you have time to treat your pains and aches?
MICHAEL LLODRA:   Well, last week my elbow was hurting a lot.   I just received the wildcard at that time, and I was thinking, I hope I will be able to be accepted just with my ranking so I will have nothing to ask to the federation. 
The wildcard was given; the draw was made.   But I was lucky that I lost in doubles in the semis so I had a day off and I was able to hit yesterday.
So I was able to play that match fully, very slight pain, not more.   But if I could serve 15 kilometers faster, it would make a difference.   But I believe for the rest I played a very good match today. 
I felt he was very confident.   I believe that's why he won that match.
So it was all right for me.

Q.   Sometimes he's compared with Federer the way he moves.   Do you think it's true?
MICHAEL LLODRA:   Yes, there's similarities.   Maybe the forehand, the chip.   I think he would lie if he said he didn't copy Federer's technique.
But, well, it's a merit he has of copying a good guy with a good technique.   He could choose a worse one. 
But it's not only his technique.   I mean, physically at 22 years old he's able to run fast and to cover the whole court.   He's extremely serious in training, and I believe that we will see him soon go to the top.

Q.   Are you 100% sure you will be in Melbourne?
MICHAEL LLODRA:   Yes, if I end up 100 or 105 I will be in the draw.

Q.   You're not going to add a challenger to your program for a few points?
MICHAEL LLODRA:   No.   My season is ending here in Bercy, and we will see what happens after.   If I compare the points to previous years, well, the previous years I was accepted in Australia.   We'll see what happens.

Q.   Benoit Paire was angry at the crowd that was whistling.   What do you have to say about the crowd here in Paris, in Bercy?
MICHAEL LLODRA:   This crowd can be fabulous sometimes and can be quite harsh at other times.   I don't want to make things worse, but here the crowd is having expectations on us, the French players, and if we don't live up to their expectations, then they react. 
I don't know what happened with Benoit in his match, but I can imagine in some tournaments there are always some people who try to be provocative.   With Ben, it always works out.

Q.   You know tennis and the world of tennis.   Could you say something about Escude and Ascione?   Because both of them are going to coach Jo. 
MICHAEL LLODRA:   Well, I know Escude well, and Thierry, too.   I practiced with Thierry in Boulouris, and also I played Davis Cup with Escude.   I think both of them are a good team.
But it's going to be a bit difficult because they are coaching two different players with totally different expectations, so they will need to have a schedule that will be agreeable to both players.
But I think Jo made a good choice.   But as I said, sometimes choices will have to be made.   I know Nico, he needs a lot of presence.   But I'm sure they talked about it all together, and I'm sure they are going to find a solution so that everybody will be happy.

Q.   How do you see your season 2014?
MICHAEL LLODRA:   Well, whatever happens, this is going to be my last season.   I was talking last year already about assessing the situation at the end of each year. 
Well, next year will be my next year.   This is what I decided.   But I decided to have that extra year because physically I still feel good.   I'm eager to play still.   And that's it.   I don't want to play a year too much, but I feel I will be able to play an extra season.   I think it will be a pity not to do it. 
But I don't know what my schedule will be yet.   I'm going to play tournaments I like, of course.   But I don't want to do like the Rolling Stones saying good‑bye all the year around.   I want to play well. 
I will try to have a complete year playing singles and doubles.   I'm going to play with Nicolas Mahut for the doubles, so I will be really into it.   I will try to play well.   I have two priorities:   No. 1, Davis Cup, and second, the French tournaments.

Q.   You said you would end in the top 100 this year.   Is it disappointing, or... 
MICHAEL LLODRA:   I never really considered rankings were that important.   Some seasons are more difficult than others, so this year I had more injuries than usual.
But I also experienced great emotions like in the French Open in singles and doubles, and there were also other tournaments where I played well and I had fun. 
But it's difficult to talk about a season where you have the feeling you were injured half of the season.   I have a good hope that next year will be better. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT