DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS MEN
March 2, 2013
Mahesh Bhupathi
Michael Llorda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 BHUPATHI‑LLODRA/Lindstedt‑Zimonjic
  7‑6, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   Can you sum up that first set a bit?   Down 2‑5 and then again 3‑6 in the tiebreak?  
MAHESH BHUPATHI:   Yeah, lucky to win it, I think.   You know, I didn't play a good game at 1‑All and lost serve.   I think we played a good game at 5‑3 to break.   
They had their chances.   Like Mike said, he hit a great volley at 3‑6 down in the breaker.   They had a really good return, and he came up with a big shot.   Again, it was the small points that counted today.   
   
 Q.   You guys are playing for the first time together and you won the title.   Do you think you would like to play more with each other?  
MAHESH BHUPATHI:   Yeah, I've got ‑‑Mike obviously is a big‑time singles guy.   He doesn't really focus on doubles, and I have my full‑time doubles partner.   Of course if we have another chance to play, we will definitely think about it.   We definitely play well together.  
   
 Q.   Five titles in Dubai, five different partners.   How do you feel about that?  
MICHAEL LLODRA:   For me, that's not good?   (Laughter.)   
MAHESH BHUPATHI:   For me it's like playing at home here.   I've got so many friends and so much family.   I used to live here for so many years.   It's great to come back.   
The Indian support is obviously tremendous.   Playing on that court before the final, it's amazing atmosphere.   We don't get that much.   
   
 Q.   How is it for you, a week of the atmosphere as well?  
MICHAEL LLODRA:   It was nice.   I knew before I came there, you know, if I have to play with one guy I have to play with Indian, because in Dubai so many Indians.   
No, it was great.   As he said, it's unbelievable to play in this stadium.   It was full.   Unbelievable atmosphere.   So that's why we play tennis, to play this kind of match.   Of course if you can win it, it's better.   
   
 Q.   After the match, the cameras are focusing and you were telling Mahesh something.   What was that?   It appeared like you said that some lucky point or something.   
MAHESH BHUPATHI:   We were admiring the backhand return he hit.   He hit the serve at 191 and I said, "That's why you're a big‑time player."   
He can hit those shots when it counts.   
   
 Q.   What was it about the tiebreaks?   
MICHAEL LLODRA:   You have to take point by point.   It's always difficult, you know.   I don't know how many points we play together today.   But, no, it was tight.   
First tiebreak they were 6‑3 up.   Second tiebreak 5‑3 up.   So you have to be ready every time.   And after, of course, you have to make the good shot at the good moment.  
But today was the key.   We stay focused until the end.   We start not good, but it was good.   
   
 Q.   How would you reflect upon your tournament overall, Michael?   Obviously winning the doubles, but singles, as well.   
MAHESH BHUPATHI:   It was good.   It was my first match or my first wins here in singles against Jo.   And also, I never won Dubai Open here, so it's good.   It's one more title.   
I'm close to Guy Forget now.   I have a bet for him.   He has 27; now I'm 25.   
You have to play more with me.   (Laughter.)  
   
 Q.   Respectively, where is next for you both?   Indian Wells?   Miami?   
MAHESH BHUPATHI:   We are all going there.  
MICHAEL LLODRA:   I play only the singles in Indian Wells.   My family is coming tomorrow, also.   Just singles, and after, a little bit of rest with family.   
MAHESH BHUPATHI:   I'm hoping ‑‑ my partner's baby is five days late, so I'm hoping he comes out or she comes out so he shows up in Indian Wells.   (Laughter.)  
   
 Q.   His wife is due to deliver?   
MAHESH BHUPATHI:   Yeah, five days ago.   But hopefully she'll come soon.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT