RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 26, 2009
Steve Carman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Tell us where we are.   
 STEVE CARMAN: The maintenance crew has worked really hard to try and get the golf course ready for us originally at 4:30, but with the lightning storm that got in the proximity of the golf course, we had to pull them off. So we postponed till 5:30, and then we have the threat of this storm coming to us.   
 I went out and evaluated the golf course prior to that, and the golf course was just not going to get back to where it needed to be for us to play golf today. So we've made the decision to not play any more golf today. We're going to resume the third round tomorrow at 7:30 AM, weather permitting, and start the fourth round without a repair at 9:05, and the last tee time will be 11:00. So it should take about five-and-a-half hours, and we should finish tomorrow afternoon at 4:30, provided we don't get stopped again.   
 Again, the golf course is completely saturated and the forecast tomorrow is 20 to 30 percent chance of showers and thunderstorms, however, the meteorology people are telling us that they are the most optimistic they've been all week about our chances tomorrow of not getting any showers.   
 Any questions about that?   
  
  Q. So if the meteorology people are off tomorrow and we get a day like today and you don't even get 54 holes in, what's the scenario?  
 STEVE CARMAN: Well, one of the reasons we were trying to get restarted at 5:30 because if we did that, we could finish the third round today. We got about three hours, three hours and 20 minutes of golf left in the third round. So if we get time in the morning like we had this morning from 7:30 to 10:30, we can hopefully finish the third round. Then if we can't play the rest of the day and we've got 54 holes in, we won't go into Tuesday.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).  
 STEVE CARMAN: If we don't get 54 holes by the end of tomorrow? Then, I think our regulations require us to go back to 36 holes.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).  
 STEVE CARMAN: The regulations prohibit us from going beyond Monday except for the situation where we would have more than half the field finished of the final round.   
 Now, if we announce 54 holes, in my interpretation the final round would then be the third round.   
  
  Q. What are the problem holes?  
 STEVE CARMAN: Problem holes? 1, 2 and 3, 8 and 9 and 13 down in the valley. 17 and 18 also have issues. You'd probably be better off asking which ones weren't the problem holes.   
  
  Q. Is there a point tomorrow morning where if you do get 54 in and the forecast looks back, you just say, okay, we've got 54 and that's it?  
 STEVE CARMAN: Sunset will be the deciding factor. If we can't finish 72 holes by sunset and we haven't started yet, we're not going to start. We have to be able to finish the round if it's started.   
  
  Q. Can you also walk us through what happened with Mike? I know he's coming down, but do you want to walk us through from your standpoint?  
 STEVE CARMAN: I'd rather wait for Mike to tell.   
  
  Q. How disappointed are you?  
 STEVE CARMAN: How disappointed?   
  
  Q. Yeah. (Indiscernible).   
 STEVE CARMAN: It's very disappointing for the Canadian people and their national championship to have Mother Nature deal them this hand.   
 In some respects it's been a very challenging week, but it's also been a rewarding week in that we've been successful and able to get as far as we are.   
 But again, it's disappointing for me, but it's very disappointing for the players not to have the opportunity to play Glen Abbey in firm, dry conditions that we had on Monday and Tuesday. They were really looking forward to playing the golf course firm and fast like we had it.   
 Perhaps the answer to this is obvious, but I'll ask anyway. Why even try to get 72 in? Is it just because that's what you started out at the start of the week?   
 STEVE CARMAN: Yeah. The tournament is set up to play 72 holes, and the PGA TOUR regulations are to accomplish that by the end of the day Sunday, and if you can't do that, then you go to Monday, but we do everything possible to get it done by the end of the day on Sunday.   
 It affects the Buick Open next week. It affects all the volunteers that are going to come out here tomorrow and help us. It affects trying to do the teardown, all this equipment's gotta get returned, sent on to the next tournament. It just ripples all the way down the line.  
 STEVE CARMAN: Doug, can we get Dean Ryan from the RCGA rules committee come up here?  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT