RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 25, 2009
Steve Carman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   NELSON SILVERIO: Tournament director, Steve Carman. Thanks for spending a few minutes with us again. I know you're busy, so why don't you just give us kind of a rundown of what's the plan for tomorrow and what's happened so far. 
 STEVE CARMAN: Superintendent let us know that the bunkers on the golf course need to be pumped, and basically all the bunkers. So he's not going to be able to get the golf course ready by the end of the day or in time for us to be able to start the third round. 
 So we informed the players just a little while ago that we were done for the day, and we changed the cut to the number nearest 60. So there will be 64 players. First tee time tomorrow is 6:45 AM. Last tee time, 8:30. I got it here. Anyway. Have you already got the sheet? 
 And we're not going to regroup in between rounds, so estimating a start of the fourth round at 12:05 with a last time I think of 1:55. 
 NELSON SILVERIO: Okay. Questions? 

 Q. If the sponge was full last night with water, being the golf course, what's it like now?
 STEVE CARMAN: Well, if you had a sponge underneath the faucet, the water just starts running off. That's the case we have right now. Surface water is just running off. So we're anticipating the golf course will be very similar to where it was this morning, still saturated. 

 Q. Why did it take so long to pull the plug today? It looked like three hours ago that there was no possible way that you were going to get back out. 
 STEVE CARMAN: Well, weather forecasting isn't an exact science. We were fortunate to finish the second round. 
 We thought the storms would get here at 2:00, and we didn't finish the second round till 2:50. And we had storms all around us, so based on those storms missing us, dissipating, we had to wait till the one that actually hit us, and the one that finally did hit us is what made us pull the plug.

 Q. It was raining like cats and dogs three hours ago. 
 STEVE CARMAN: Well, they were estimating the rain was going to finish at 4:30. Not until the superintendent gave us the information that he couldn't get the golf course ready in time for us to start the third round so we could get the players started and still be able to finish the fourth round by Sunday night, that's what was the equation. 

 Q. The weather forecast for tomorrow, last one I looked at said 60% chance of rain and thunder in the morning. 
 STEVE CARMAN: The information we've gotten is 50% chance of scattered showers and thunderstorms, afternoon. Afternoon. So you know, it looks like the morning is going to be pretty good. 

 Q. Assuming, I guess, there's a delay tomorrow, it goes to Monday?
 STEVE CARMAN: Yes. 

 Q. Have you looked at the forecast for Monday?
 STEVE CARMAN: Yes. The last I heard it was 20%. 

 Q. Just wondering when the last time the modified cut was made before the third round was played. 
 STEVE CARMAN: Two weeks ago. They did it at John Deere. They were fortunate enough to lose the entire first day and have a good forecast for the next three days, so they announced it prior to the start of the second round that they were going to play 36 holes on Sunday. But they did use it two weeks ago. 
 NELSON SILVERIO: All right. Steve, thank you very much. 
 STEVE CARMAN: You're welcome. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT