RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 24, 2009
Steve Carman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DOUG MILNE: Thanks for joining us for a few minutes. We know you're busy. We won't keep you long. These guys kind of want an update, and obviously we can't predict anything with the weather. But just as far as what you're working on, what we're thinking about. Just a few comments and then we'll take questions.
 STEVE CARMAN: Obviously our goal is to play 72 holes by the end of the day on Sunday. So all our planning and calculations are based on that goal. 
 We're going to resume tomorrow at 7:30 and finish the first half of the wave of the second round and start the second half of the second round at 7:40 with the last time of 9:40. 
 I usually figure about five-and-a-half hours for the last group to play with the conditions they're in, searching for casual water release, so I estimate about a 3:10 finish, 3:00, 3:10 finish for the second round, at which time we'll make the cut. 
 It'll take us 40, 45 minutes to turn it around, so I'm thinking 3:45 to 5:45 start of the third round, and then we won't finish the third round Saturday night. We'll have to come back Sunday morning. And then we will regroup again and schedule the tee times so that we will finish approximately 6:00, and this is all based on no more weather. 
 Unfortunately the forecast for Saturday afternoon is 80 percent chance of rain starting about 2:00, so that puts in jeopardy us even finishing the second round. That'll give us the rest of the day maybe to find a pocket here, pocket there where we can play 30, 40, 50 minutes to try and get the second round in. 
 The other side of the coin is it is a forecast, and forecasts tend to be incorrect. So hopefully it will be, and we'll get the third round started and play and finish the third round on Sunday and play the fourth round and a have a champion Sunday at 6:00. 

 Q. Apologize for making you speak about a hypothetical situation, but for those of us who aren't clear, how does it work, whether you decide down the road to go to a 54-hole event or go to Monday? Can you just sort of as briefly as possible explain that?
 STEVE CARMAN: Our regulations dictate that we're playing 72 holes, even if that takes us into Monday, if the Monday forecast is good. 
 If we're unable to play on Monday, or can't finish 72 holes by the end of the day Monday, then the option would be to go back to 54 holes. But we're pretty much regulated to try and get 72 holes in by the end of the day Monday. 

 Q. There is the cut. Do you use the below-60 cut? I know you said you might make that determination tomorrow or what will decide if you would go to that cut?
 STEVE CARMAN: If we can finish the second round but can't get the third round started tomorrow, then that would bring in the number nearest 60, and we would schedule a 36-hole day on Sunday, like they did at Moline at John Deere. That's in the mix. That's a possibility. 
 With the forecast and the rain, you know, it's definitely a possibility. It's not something that we want to do. It's not something that the players want us to do, but it's there because we have the goal of finishing on Sunday if we can. 

 Q. (Inaudible). Is that out of the question unless there's only a couple of holes left or something like that?
 STEVE CARMAN: Again, according to the regulations, if you're playing the final round and half the field finishes on Monday night and that would force you to go into Tuesday to finish that round. That's pretty much the only way we would go to Tuesday. 

 Q. What's the shape of the golf course right now in your opinion? Do you think there's any problem with that?
 STEVE CARMAN: Yes. We've just received total of about nine-tenths of an inch for the day. This last storm dropped a little over a half an inch. It hasn't hurt the bunkers; they're working on the bunkers, pumping the bunkers right now. 
 We're not going to be able to cut any fairways. Unfortunately we're playing for further lies. It's marginal right now. Hopefully tomorrow morning when we get here it's dried out sufficiently so we can start, but if we get any rain during the day tomorrow, we're at what they call field capacity. The sponge is full of water, and if you turn around and more water, it's going to be saturated. 

 Q. What does that mean?
 STEVE CARMAN: If the golf course becomes unplayable under the rules, then we would suspend play. We tried to resume the other day at 1:10, but we couldn't get the golf course drained properly enough so that you could find release even in the rough from casual water. 
 So you know, our position is if you can't -- that's why we're playing for further lies. If you can't get relief in the fairway and you have to go to the rough. We're going to try to give you an option to find a spot within the area of club length of where you are and play. But it's a situation where that wasn't even going to be acceptable. 

 Q. This last weather event, did that storm sneak up on you or did you actually want them to go out playing 29 or 30 minutes, whatever it was?
 STEVE CARMAN: No. It popped up. It developed just outside the 15-mile radar scope, and it was the only storm in the region. And it wasn't very large, but it was right down the pipe to hit us. 

 Q. Do you feel lucky?
 STEVE CARMAN: It's been an uphill battle. (Laughs). But you know, we're making progress, and we just need a break, you know. 
 We're certainly worse off than we were at the 2008 Canadian Open. We played 18 holes and went off one tee in twos on Sunday. We don't have that option right now. Okay. Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT