ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 30, 2016
Steve Carman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Well, obviously, not the ideal day, but certainly in this business, this is the kind of day we have sometimes.  Bring us up to speed on where we are and what we're looking at moving forward?
STEVE CARMAN: What the weather guys are telling us is that the boundary front that we have been dealing with all day, it has stalled.  The upper portion of it is going to move to the east over towards Atlanta.
But the portion that's near us is going to stay here, and so the front's going to go from almost a vertical front to a 45 degrees.  So, tomorrow and Monday, this boundary is predicted to be kind of stationary over us.  It's going to generate a lot of storms.  Not as intense as what we have seen on the radar today, but the possibility is there.  So we're going to deal with rain periods, and then also periods where there's not going to be any rain.
Our hopes are that during those rain periods, we won't have lightning and we'll be able to play golf.  So, we got 50 minutes of starting times left.  Our plan is to resume at 7:30 tomorrow morning, and then start the third round.  And depending upon how things go, we could keep them in the same groups and play the fourth round in the same groups and keep right on playing, with a slight possibility of finishing 72 holes tomorrow, if we don't get any stoppage.  If we get any stoppage, then we'll be playing golf on Monday, provided the forecast and the golf course can support that.  So, it's just really a wait and see position that we're in.
Q. Have you told them to make plans to stay for a Monday finish?
STEVE CARMAN: Yeah, yes, I told them that we had a slight possibility of finishing 72 holes tomorrow.  Because we played the hour of golf today, it really made a difference as to what the ability is tomorrow.
But I've told them if we have any stoppage that they need to make plans for Monday.  In fact, earlier than that announcement I told them, I said, they really should be making plans for Monday.
Q. Would you walk us through the possibility of this tournament being shortened to either 54 holes or even 36 holes.
STEVE CARMAN: Our No. 1 goal is to play 72 holes by the end of the day Sunday.  We're going to make every effort to do that.  That's where we would keep them in the same groups and start the fourth round while the third round was going.
The next alternative is to play 72 holes by the end of the day Monday.  So, if we get to a scenario where we can't finish 72 holes by the end of the day Monday, then we would go back to 54 holes, and we would make every effort to finish 54 holes by the end of the day Monday.
The only possibility for us to play on Tuesday is if we have half the field of what we call the final round.  It could be the third round or it could be the fourth round, whatever it turns out to be the last round.  If we get the 42nd player finished of that round, and we get suspended, we're going to play on Tuesday to finish that round.
But that's a pretty unlikely scenario, because we're not going to start a round that we can't finish, and we're not going to resume a round that we can't finish.  So if we have got three hours of golf to finish the fourth round, and we got an hour of daylight left, we're not going back out.  So that fourth round would get cancelled, and we would revert back to 54 holes.
Q. Do you have a sense of how much rain this golf course has received since Wednesday?
STEVE CARMAN: We had an inch during the pro-am and had an inch on Thursday.  We had nothing yesterday.  And up until the moderate rain, we had a quarter of an inch, and I haven't heard at this point, how much rain we got during that moderate rain and since then.  I'm guessing it's probably going to be somewhere an inch over an inch total for the day.  But that's a guess.
Q. Are there any holes that are really bad right now?
STEVE CARMAN: Because of the lightning threat we haven't been able to go out and assess the situation, but we're optimistic because of what we experienced on the Wednesday and Thursday, that the golf course is going to take it pretty well, because it had a pretty good drying day yesterday with the wind and we did have some sun.  So, we feel pretty good about the condition of the golf course.  Now if we get a lot of rain overnight and they're predicting that we could get up to two inches, it could be a complete different story.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT