THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 5, 2013
Steve Carman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  LAURA NEAL:   We know it's been a long day, so we won't keep you too long.   We just want to give the media ask any questions and give updates for tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   The worst‑case scenario tomorrow, if these guys are playing in downpours, and somebody gets to 17 and a half points during that, do you call them off the course at that point or do you keep playing?   
STEVE CARMAN:   That's a tough one to answer.   According to the document that I referred to last night, they are to play their match to completion after the Cup has been decided.   And I'm sure we would evaluate the situation and try and make a logical decision, but I can't tell you that we would force them to finish, but I think we would expect them to try and finish.   
   
 Q.   Can you give us an idea of how much rain has fallen in the last two days and what the forecast looks like tomorrow?   
STEVE CARMAN:   Stewart Williams, I know we had‑‑ I don't want to guess.   I really don't know how much it is.   We had some totals today how much we got although I'm sure it was more than a half an inch in that one do you know power.   
LAURA NEAL:   He gave us   .5 halfway through the day, so we just need to update you guys.   It was 1.6 total halfway through.  
STEVE CARMAN:   Tomorrow, Stewart told me the forecast is about 60 percent chance, it's showers and thunderstorms overnight to tomorrow morning, and then the percentage will drop and it will improve until about many I had day and then it will go the other direction.   High percentage, 70, 80 percent chance of showers and thunderstorms in the afternoon.   
   
 Q.   Did either captain express displeasure over the fact that they are going to have to name their singles lineup, and it will alter the order of play.   Are they okay with that and are you people okay with that in?  
STEVE CARMAN:   They understand the situation and we need to try to play as quick as we can.   We tried to do, the pairings meeting as close to the tee times as possible.   That's 40 minutes, by the time they finish, we'll probably have 25 minutes to get to the first tee and get things organized for that first match.   
So they have not issued any complaints to me, but we really haven't spent much time together.   They have been pretty much huddled with their teams.   
   
 Q.   Just what you said as far as the timetable, it sounds a little bit different than the times we were given.   When are they doing the pairings and when your first singles tee time tomorrow?   8:30,   9:10.   That's 40 minutes it's going it take them to do the pairings, depending how much they analyze over it, ten, 15 minutes.   
7:35 resumption.   We initially set a ballpark of 8:00, but then as we monitored how far the matches were getting today and how fast they were playing, we realized that 19:10 was probably more likely the starting time, and I wanted to get the draw as close as I could to that 9:10 to give them the best information of the status of the matches and how their players were playing.   
LAURA NEAL:   Thanks a bunch.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT