THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 4, 2013
Steve Carman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MARK STEVENS:   Like to welcome Steve Carman.   Can you good give us a general overview, there will not be a draw tonight, and you can if go out that and ten the time line for tomorrow.  
STEVE CARMAN:   After meeting with the captains we thought in the best interests of the competition we thought it would be more appropriate to do the third round pairings tomorrow morning, approximately 8:00.   
The plan is to resume tomorrow morning at 7:30, do the third round pairings at 8:00 and try and start the third round at 8:33 with an hour delay of the original published starting times.   
That still gives us the opportunity to try to finish both rounds tomorrow before dark.   Our original plan was to try to finish about ten minutes to 6:00 for television so that hour delay would make it ten minutes to seven, which is about 20 minutes before sunset.   So that's in an ideal world obviously.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk first of all if you ever even considered going early today with obviously this rain, and then secondly, is there a situation either tomorrow or Sunday, where you see a possibility of having to do something different because of the weather?   
STEVE CARMAN:   There was no discussion today about playing earlier.   We lost some pretty good weather in the morning.   However, the forecast was for scattered showers.   There was a chance that it wouldn't materialize, and we obviously wanted the golf to be live on television.   
Going forward, we'll make our best effort to try and finish as we've done with this plan for tomorrow to try to finish on time tomorrow night and then finish the singles on Sunday.   We have about five hours on Sunday morning that we can make up time, as well, because I think the approximate starting time for the singles is like 12:05.   
   
 Q.   The weather for Sunday is not looking good and we understand there has been some discussion about starting the singles as early as possible; is that still a possibility?   
STEVE CARMAN:   Yes, it is.   We are waiting till tomorrow to get the more current and accurate models.   The models that we've had today, according to Stewart Williams, our meteorologist, are pretty widespread where the system is going to be and when it's going to get here.   
We felt like tomorrow, after we get the more current models, maybe we'll have a more accurate picture of what the time frame is going to be and based on that information, we would make the decision whether we were going to try and play early or try and beat the weather or go with the original plan.   
   
 Q.   I had asked earlier today about worst‑case scenarios and what happens if there's more really bad weather, more delays; do we go into Monday, do we go into Tuesday; and secondly, is there a minimum number of points that would be played if you couldn't get all the matches in?  
STEVE CARMAN:   Unfortunately I didn't bring the document with me, but in the document, yes, Monday is a consideration.   And I believe the document tells that you if we don't finish by sunset on Sunday (Monday), then the team with the most points at that point would be declared the winner.   I'll have to pull the document out.   I came a little unprepared.   I just came from the captains and I didn't have it with me.   
But I'm pretty sure that's accurate, is at sunset Monday night, the point totals would determine the Cup.   
   
 Q.   It's been a birdie‑fest out there, knowing what you know how, hindsight 20/20, the greens, the course was playing pretty easy, even before the rain came; are you okay with that, how many birdies there are?   
STEVE CARMAN:   Has it been exciting?   Yes, I think the goal is the match play and the two players playing each other and birdies winning holes, instead of pars winning holes‑‑ not to say anything negative against Muirfield Village, because it's a great golf course, but the Memorial is a different golf tournament than this one is.  
Hindsight we would have loved to have had firm conditions which we anticipated in the fall with little rain, supposedly, but it seems like any time the PGA TOUR brings a tournament to the Dublin area, we bring rain with it.   
   
 Q.   Not having seen The Captain's Agreement, which I'm assuming there is one, is there provisions in The Captain's Agreement to try to slim down the amount of singles and four‑balls on Saturday and Sunday if that could be the only way they could get the competition in at the end?   
STEVE CARMAN:   The document actually isn't an agreement that the two captains agreed to.   It's just a document that defines how the competition is going to be conducted.   My recollection of that document is that there is no provisions in there to reduce the number of matches.   Although, if we don't have 34 matches in by the end of the day on Monday, it's reduced.   
   
 Q.   I think I heard the same thing; if you can clarify it, sun down Sunday or Monday?   
STEVE CARMAN:   Monday.   But the document has the provision that we will play on Monday.   Obviously it's our intent to try and avoid that.   
MARK STEVENS:   Okay, thank you for your time, Steve.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT