WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 25, 2011
Steve Carman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DOUG MILNE: We're joined by Steve Carman from the PGA Tours rules staff. Obviously you know why he's here. There have been some weather issues forthcoming in the next couple of days, and as a result the schedule has changed somewhat. Steve, if you wouldn't mind filling us in on the decision and what we're looking at. 
 STEVE CARMAN: The goal is to finish the championship by Sunday night and the forecast tomorrow of high winds in the afternoon, there's some uncertainty whether we'd be able to play golf because of the balls moving on the greens. 
 So we've decided to try to play the quarterfinal matches early and finish them and start the semifinals with the idea that if the wind doesn't go at the velocity that it was projected that we'd be able to play all right. If it doesn't we'd be able to get some golf in in the semifinal rounds and maybe come back Sunday morning and finish the semifinals and still have the opportunity to play the championship and the match for third place and finish Sunday afternoon. 
 DOUG MILNE: With that we'll take a few questions, if anybody has questions. 

 Q. I know that the projection right now for weather is rain and possibly snow Sunday morning. What would it take, per your guys' rules, to postpone it or to move it to Monday?
 STEVE CARMAN: What would it take to postpone it? I didn't quite hear the last part of it. Well, if we can't play golf because the conditions are such that we can't play, under the rules that would definitely cause us to go to Monday.
 Well, with snow on the greens we wouldn't be playing golf. But it's unlikely that snow is going to stick. The soil temperature and the ground temperature is warm enough that it's unlikely that snow is going to stick. 
 I was here in 2001 when we were playing Touchstone Energy Tucson Open up at the Gallery on the north coast, and it did stick that year.
 It would have to be casual water, and the golf course becoming an unplayable situation, but it's unlikely that's going to happen. 

 Q. You mentioned your concern about the wind. What velocity -- is there a number there that you're concerned with?
 STEVE CARMAN: No, there really isn't. Last Saturday we had high winds out here. I'm not sure what the velocity was. We don't think it was as strong as what they're predicting. In that situation we had some of the players that had missed the cut and some of the international players come and they were here on Saturday and they couldn't practice, the ball wouldn't stay still. So that's the fear. If the ball won't stay still on the putting green, then that's the condition that would cause us to suspend play.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 STEVE CARMAN: Yes, it's my understanding that after play today, they're going to start taking the mesh off all the television towers, the SHOTLink towers, trying to get what I call the sails down. The tents seemed to hold up pretty well last Saturday, but they'll make provisions to make sure that they're well anchored and we'll move some of the items that are going to cause the tents to become unstable, I'm sure. 
 MODERATOR: Steve, we appreciate you coming in. Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT