NCAA WOMEN'S COLLEGE WOLRD SERIES
June 1, 2017
Megan Kleist
Gwen Svekis
Nikki Udria
Mike White
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Washington - 3, Oregon - 1
MIKE WHITE: Obviously it's a game that comes down to inches or opportunities especially, and they made the most of their opportunities and we squandered some of ours.  I think they played a pretty sharp game in all three facets.  Offensively obviously the pitching was a pretty gritty performance by (Taran) Alvelo, and we were close, we just couldn't quite get it done, just some mistakes here and there, some baserunning errors and a few other things.  I'll take the blame for that stuff.  We need to be better prepared to be able to play at this level, and we just didn't get it done.  We've got to come out and do better against the pitcher we've seen for the fourth time this year.
Q. Coach, you were talking about some of the baserunning errors.  In the fourth and fifth inning, it looked like you tried to pick up the aggression on the offensive side.  What was your thinking going into those two innings?
MIKE WHITE: Yeah, it's a difficult thing to answer because a couple of them were missed signals, and they weren't supposed to go.  You hate to divert the blame to your players, but like I said, that becomes blame to me for them not knowing how to read the signals.  One was a gutsy read, one was a changeup read and she has the green light to steal, so that was different, but another one was a missed signal.
Our motto all year has been put pressure on the defense by using players moving and everything else, so some of the other players we pulled were just normal plays that just didn't quite work out.  But defensively that's a very good team out there, and I mean, I think the one bunt we hit over the top there the shortstop took it at second base, that thing three feet either way we've got first and second, nobody out.  But like I said, it's a game of inches.  Things didn't quite work out our way, but we didn't execute very well, either.
Q. Nikki and Gwen, we were getting runners on but not getting opportunities to move them around.  Did you feel like players were getting frustrated or pressing at all or just not being able to capitalize?
NIKKI UDRIA: I just felt like we weren't aggressive at the right times.  I think we waited a little bit too long to get going and put that pressure on them.  I'd like to see us come out on Saturday just ready to go.  I felt like it took us a long time to get going today.
GWEN SVEKIS: I didn't feel like we were pressing at any point.  I think we've done a great job all year of -- we're not done -- we're not out until the last pitch of the last inning.  I didn't feel like we were pressing, but like Nikki said, we didn't get the clutch hits.  We didn't get the runners in when we had them in scoring position.  That's just what it came down to.
Q. Megan, can you just talk about obviously this is a team that you've played against a lot this year; how much does that change the mindset going into a game when it's someone that you've faced that many times?
MEGAN KLEIST: I don't really think the mindset really changes.  Coach White said before the game that seeing them a fourth time you can kind of use to your advantage, kind of know the weakness of each hitter and everything, and I just didn't capitalize on those big pitches in the right times.
Q. Mike, I want to ask about obviously the confrontation between the pitcher and your hitter.  Was there a history there, or was that just kind of the passions of the World Series getting the best of the players?
MIKE WHITE: That's a good question to ask between the two of them, but yeah, they did both play on the same club team and against each other in high school, and Jenna (Lilley) had really good success off of her, so obviously her mindset was to come inside.  But to be hit twice like that, I don't know where the pitches were.  The umpire has the best view, so that was the question I had for him.  If he thought it was intentional, then he should say something.  But I certainly hope it wasn't intentional.  But it was a close ballgame.  I didn't think it would be.  She was just trying to come inside.  But I didn't think there was any bad blood there, no.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT