ROLAND GARROS
May 24, 2015
Go Soeda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  P. KOHLSCHREIBER/G. Soeda6-1, 6-0, 6-0An interview with:GO SOEDATHE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.Q. You are one of five Japanese players this time, which we're told is the most number of Japanese players since 1967 apparently.  A long time.  Is that just a coincidence, or is this proof of some sort of Japanese resurgence in tennis?  Is there any special significance you think to that number?GO SOEDA: I think it's great for Asia, too, not only Japan.  Five player in the main draw, and I think no other country in Asia, so I think we can be confident, you know. But we have to win the first match or second match.  Like me, you know.  If I play main draw, I have to win main draw. Next time if we can win, all Japanese player first round, except Nishikori, he can win this tournament. But other player, we should win first round.  Yeah.Q. You may not know it, but you are also a record-breaker today in one small way.  There are more 30-year-old men this time than at any other Roland Garros.  You're 30, I believe, yes?GO SOEDA: Yes, this year, 31.Q. There are 39 30-year-olds this time at Roland Garros, more than ever.  Do you see any significance in that?  How is it that the old guys, you old 30 year olds, manage to keep going that long?GO SOEDA: Yeah, I think everything set for the treatment, practice, and training, so that's why we can play long time. Before, I think old player, you know, injury more.  So I think all players more treatment more before I think, so that's why we can play. Yeah.Q. Can I ask a last question about technology?GO SOEDA: Yeah.Q. In other sports there is a lot more technology than in tennis.  And I don't mean Hawk-Eye and those things.GO SOEDA: Technology mean?Q. Technology that the players use.  For instance in soccer, there is a lot of technology that measures exactly where the players have been on the pitch, how many kilometers they've run, how many calories they're using.  In tennis we don't see that much technology like that.  Do you know why?  Is there room for more technology in tennis like that that players can use?GO SOEDA: I don't know.  I cannot say anything.  But I think tennis, they keep the old rules.  You know, they want to keep the old rules, so maybe it's tough to change everything. But I think Hawk-Eye is the good changing.  But tennis is not should change a lot I think.Q. Do you use any technology yourself to analyze, for instance, your game?  In golf they use a lot of video to analyze their swing and things like that.  Do you use anything like that?GO SOEDA: I think some racquets, you know, technology in the racquet.Q. That's new.GO SOEDA: Yeah, but I don't use it.  Maybe five years later maybe more many players use technology racquets. I think we see that future.  I use some technology later.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT