U.S. AMATEUR FOUR-BALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 28, 2019
Logan Shuping
Blake Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So Logan, you put the capper on it there on 18.  That was a heck of a shot in there.  How did you do it?
LOGAN SHUPING: About the same thing that we did, and I think we got the advantage, and we played 18 earlier.  They had the tee, and they decided to rip drivers up there, and it gets real tight up there if you hit driver.
We knew that we laid back with 3 wood in the first round, it worked out well.  Blake made a birdie.  And we decided to do that again.  They happened to hit into some trouble, and then I just had a good number and hit a great shot, hit it out to the left, and it ran down there next to the flag.
Q. What's the feeling like when you walk up there and see it's like eight inches from the hole?
LOGAN SHUPING: I don't know.  I mean, I'm just speechless right now.  It's been an unbelievable trip.  Just to see that we're going to, you know -- it was such a close match the whole round, and just to come down and see it, you know, six inches from the flag and know that we're going to be playing on the last day tomorrow in a USGA event is something special.
Q. Blake, what's it mean to you to get to a semifinal?
BLAKE TAYLOR: It's really special.  I mean, I've never been this close in any event.  I've only played in one, played in the U.S. Am, and didn't make the cut, so it wasn't nearly this close.
So it will be cool.  It will be -- I know there's a lot of pressure, but we've handled pressure pretty well so far, and we're just going to try to keep doing our thing.
Q. Do you think that experience you had at Riviera and Belleair is going to help you tomorrow?
BLAKE TAYLOR: I think so.  I mean, just you kind of know USGA sets the courses up tough, and especially out here if the wind gets up -- we even said that this afternoon.  You know, you don't necessarily have to go make birdies to win, even in four-ball.  Normally, you're going to have to go make birdies.  Out here today with the wind blowing and the greens really firming up and speeding up, you don't have to make birdie.  Sometimes pars gets it done.
Take your birdies when they come, but you don't always have to have that.
Q. Logan, it was a kind of interesting match.  There wasn't a lot of winning of holes.  There was like eight straight holes where you guys halved it.  Do you think there was a key moment in that round that pushed you guys ahead?
LOGAN SHUPING: I think, honestly, from the start, on 1, they hit it in there to probably 15, 18 feet, a great shot into that wind.  And me and Blake were both down there below the ridge with like 40-footers, and I just drained it.  From there on in, I mean, we just kept halving from there.  That was kind of the tone of the day, kind of set it.
And then from there on in, we just kept battling.  We just kept saying fairways and greens.  I don't think we made a bogey this afternoon, did we?  No.  So I mean, we just made a bunch of pars, and then, I mean, eventually we just birdied 18, and that's what got it done.
Q. Who birdied 13?
BLAKE TAYLOR: I did.
Q. Tell us about the birdie at 13, Blake.
BLAKE TAYLOR: They had a really tough pin over on 13 today.  Logan birdied it this morning, and we've just been ripping driver and halving wedge and, you know, just playing it longer than the yardage, and get wedge up in the wind.  We were both able to stop it on that little tier.  Logan did it this morning.  I did it this afternoon.  We both had about five-foot putts each round.
Q. What did you hit in there, and what was your yardage?
BLAKE TAYLOR: 54 degree from about 85 yards, and I wanted to play it a lot longer so I could get it up in the wind so it would land soft on that ridge, because it's a really small tier over there.
We said walking off that hole, making two birdies on that hole today was pretty special on a hole that's normally not hard but today was playing tough.
Q. Considering your comeback this morning and now winning again here in the quarterfinal, where does this day compare to any other day you've had in golf?
BLAKE TAYLOR: It's up there.  I mean, it's one of the best days for sure.  It was a long, stressful day, but it was a great day, and we're going to try to go do the same thing tomorrow.
Q. Where does this rank for you?
LOGAN SHUPING: I can't -- I don't -- there's no chance there's any day that's been better than this.  To do what we did this morning and to just the whole time think, man, this is -- we don't want to leave.  And then end up doing that and coming out and making a bomb on the 1st hole and just holding the lead the whole time.  We just played so well today.
I feel like we still didn't make that many putts.  We hit it so well and just, you know, we both got all our families here.  That's what it's all about.  We've had a great time on and off the course, and we just don't want to leave.
Q. All right.  Thanks for your time.
LOGAN SHUPING: Thank you so much.
BLAKE TAYLOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT