NASCAR CUP SERIES: FIREKEEPERS CASINO 400
August 8, 2020
Rodney Childers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: We're now joined by our race winning crew chief, Rodney Childers. Rodney, can you just talk us through your strategy, getting three out of the last four races here you guys have won, so what is it about this track? 
RODNEY CHILDERS: Yeah, I mean, Michigan has just always been a great place for us as a team. I feel like, too, it's always been a great place for me, looking back at what I was able to learn here in 2012 and 2013 after the repave with Mark Martin. You look at all the races since then, and we've been right there and been able to win one about every year that we've been here. We gave quite a few away it seems like in '14 and '15.
But overall we've had great cars the last couple years and able to capitalize on that. Kevin gets around here really good. 
But our whole team is just doing a great job this year. Our pit crew has really stepped it up and made a ton of difference for us. You never know when your last one is going to be, but they're always a lot of fun, and we enjoy winning them, that's for sure. 

Q. Rodney, with the choose rule, the race team has so much input in when to pit and all that kind of stuff. Are you more leaving that decision up to Kevin and what he wants to do? How do you approach that kind of strategy? 
RODNEY CHILDERS: Yeah, I mean, Kevin and Timmy are kind of handling that on their own, and then if they ask my opinion on something, then I chime in at that point. 
But honestly, this was a great place to start that in my opinion. It gave us all a lot of options on what we could do. You saw some guys that maybe wasn't in the top three cars and able to take a shot at starting on the front row. 
But I've also been here and had a car that I thought was the best car and didn't win because we ended up in the wrong lane over and over and over. I think it was a great addition this week and a great job by NASCAR. 
You know, I liked it, and like I said, Kevin, he's been around here a long time, and he's good enough to make his own decisions when it comes to that. 

Q. You hit on it already, but this has been a great track for you. Is there anything about this place that you've noticed suits your style, or what do you think it is that has allowed you to build fast cars for this place? 
RODNEY CHILDERS: Yeah, I mean, I think racetracks like this, the fast ones, a lot of throttle time, those are the ones that suit us as a team right now. The 550 tracks where there's just a lot of throttle time and long straightaways, big racetracks, that's really where we excel. Today was the same car that we had for the Brickyard 400, and I think we all were impressed with the speed that it had at the Brickyard and what we were able to do there, and it was the same way today. It's definitely been a good one for us. 
Excited to hopefully get to show it tomorrow and start back there and see how it does in traffic. 

Q. If I remember correctly, you won the first race of the double‑header at Pocono, as well. What kind of things did you learn then that you can apply going into tomorrow's race and kind of re‑setting up the winning car? 
RODNEY CHILDERS: Yeah, I was honestly thinking about that during the race. Pocono we maybe didn't have the best car that first day when we won, but we felt like we actually made our car better going into day two. 
Right now I don't know how we could make our car better going into tomorrow, so that's kind of where we're at. I think we'll probably start with what we had today and see what it does mired back there in traffic. I heard a lot of guys today from different teams saying that their cars were really loose and out of the racetrack back there in traffic, and we heard some guys talking about they were too tight back there in traffic. So it was kind of hard to judge off other people, so we're just going to hopefully roll with what we have and go from there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT