TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 24, 2017
Dylan Cantrell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Dylan, what's the one thing that's causing the offense to struggle so much in these games?  
DYLAN CANTRELL: You know, that's a good question.  That's what we're trying to figure out.  But I think the biggest thing is we've just got to focus on doing our job and not doing too much.  I think some of us get -- trying to make the big play every play and worrying about that.  We've just got to focus on taking what they give us and going from there and attacking what they give us.   
 Q.  Is this something you've seen on tape, them dropping all these guys back, or is it something they're just stalling in game?  
DYLAN CANTRELL: Yeah, it's something that we kind of knew.  That's the reason we ran the ball so much, because that is a run-friendly defense, and trying to establish that run when they're dropping eight guys.  That kind of seems to be a trend in the Big 12 just because, you know, how high-powered the offenses are.  So that's something that we can look forward to in the next few weeks.  So that's what we're game planning for and getting ready to attack those.   
 Q.  As a receiver, how do you adapt?  What are the adjustments you make?  
DYLAN CANTRELL: I think just a lot of underneath stuff, getting ready.  We didn't have very many big plays and didn't throw the ball down field very much, because we couldn't because they're dropping.  They have three safeties and corners are getting out.  So just got to attack the underneath stuff, and having shorter plays and you know getting ready for those longer, 10, 12-play drives where you have to move it down field and not rely on that big play.  So that's what we've got to get better at is just having those longer play drives and getting in the end zone.   
 Q.  As receivers is it something where you have to recognize where a soft spot is and sit down in the zone also?  It's open, but not for very long.  
DYLAN CANTRELL: Yeah.  Yeah, so a lot of, I think there was one drive where we just threw a bunch of unders, and we've just got to find that gap in there.  They were there, like you said.  Sometimes they're not there open very long, so that's one thing we've got to work on, getting that timing down and finding those windows.   
 Q.  What do you see when you look at this Oklahoma defense?  
DYLAN CANTRELL: Yeah, they're a good defense.  They play hard, they play a lot of zone.  Like I said, we might see them play a little like Iowa State just based off what they see on film and how we struggled a little bit with that.  So we're game planning for that and getting ready for that, and trying to find ways to attack that type of defense.  But at the same time, like I said, they play hard.  They've got good athletes as always, so it will be a good challenge for us.   
 Q.  Justin noted that a couple weeks ago late in the third and early in the fourth quarter noticed that some juice was lacking on the sideline.  Was it there against Iowa State or was it something that you noticed wasn't exactly there all the time?  
DYLAN CANTRELL: Yeah, it was a little flat at times.  For whatever reason, I'm not sure.  We've got to be better at that.  You know, I think those 11 a.m. games sometimes you've got to bring your own energy.  You could tell it was flat on the sidelines at times, especially when we were struggling.  But got to do a better job as players, as leaders to just bring that energy.   
I don't think we have to worry about it this week.  7 p.m. at Oklahoma, it will probably be sold out and their crowd will be getting wild, and their students so I don't think we're going to have to worry about bringing that energy.   
 Q.  Is there (Inaudible) in silencing a raucous crowd like that?  
DYLAN CANTRELL: No doubt.  Hopefully we can do that on Saturday.   
 Q.  (Inaudible) West Virginia and Iowa State showed you all, and Oklahoma and Texas was a 13-10 game the other day.  (Inaudible)?  
DYLAN CANTRELL: First time I can think of is last year against West Virginia.  That's what they did against us here.  Like you said, Texas was doing that against Oklahoma State, kind of holding their receivers.  They've got a ton of great playmakers on their offense.  So, yeah, I think that is a trend.  Just forcing people to run the ball, which is one thing that Big 12 is not necessarily known for.  So you have to adapt to that, establish the run game, which will hopefully bring the safeties down a little bit, so they have to help.  Then it opens up the passing game.  We have to do a better job establishing the run game.   
 Q.  I don't know if TCU was exactly the same.  But it seemed like last year they gave you guys dribble as well.  Is that accurate to say?  
DYLAN CANTRELL: Yeah, if I can remember right.  Like you said, that's probably going to be one thing that we're going to have to expect the rest of the year.  So we've just got to get in the film room and work at practice finding ways to attack that.   
 Q.  What do you say to yourselves in the receivers room?  You're some of the most experienced guys on the team.  I'm sure it doesn't sit well to not be as productive the last couple weeks as you're accustomed to?  
DYLAN CANTRELL: Yeah, as a receiver, the room, we're doing anything we can to do in our job on the run game, trying to block hard on perimeter.  That helps a lot.  Getting those backs.  Our running backs been running hard.  They'll pop outside and you never know where they're going to go.  Just doing our job.  Not being selfish.  The ball is going to get spread around.  Just trying to play unselfishly.  When the ball comes our way, make a play.  Even if you get those 50-50 balls or whatever it may be, just find a way to make a play.   
 Q.  Does Nick's confidence ever waiver at all, or is he pretty good keeping it even-keel?  
DYLAN CANTRELL: Yeah, like I've mentioned before, he's one of the toughest guys on the team, the most competitive.  So when one thing -- when a play doesn't go our way, he puts it on himself.  He's very hard on himself.  He's his biggest critic, but his confidence is always there.  He may be hard on himself, but he's out there ready to make a play the next series.   
 Q.  After the missed extra point on the first touchdown against Iowa State, you hear boos in the crowd.  How much does that affect you on the sideline when it's your home crowd?  
DYLAN CANTRELL: Yeah, I'd be lying if I said it didn't have an effect at all.  That's one of those things where we score quick.  Kind of takes the air out of you a little bit when something like that happens.  But at the same time, that's football.  Things are going to go your way.  Things aren't going to go your way.  Just got to move on from that and get over it and play the next play.   
 Q.  As a receiver on the offensive side, what's more frustrating:  A missed field goal or a missed fourth and one opportunity?  
DYLAN CANTRELL: As an offensive player, whatever we have to do to try to get in the end zone, that's what we want to do.  At the same time, going forward, as a field goal, that's a smart decision by the coach and that's his decision.  Got to have confidence in the kicker, no matter the situation.  It just didn't work out sometimes.  So I know we're getting in there this week and they're doing a lot of extra work and getting better.   
So hopefully we can get the kicking game going.  But anytime we get a chance to go for it.  I'm down to go for it.  But offensively, I just want to get in the end zone and do whatever I can to get in the end zone.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT