NBA DRAFT 2017
June 22, 2017
Damyean Dotson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Please start out with an opening statement about what you'll bring to your new team.
DAMYEAN DOTSON: Man, this is a dream come true for me, but I bring a versatility, great attitude and effort, probably the best teammate the Knicks -- probably the best player and the best teammate that anybody on the Knicks ever had.
Q. What will it mean for you to play at Madison Square Garden?
DAMYEAN DOTSON: It will mean a lot.  I'm very excited.  I remember coming to "Rumble in the Bronx", the tournament, and passing MSG and they was rebuilding it, not rebuilding but doing some construction around it, but it was a great experience.  And I'm ready to get in there and get some shots up, do anything, kiss the ground, whatever I need to do.
Q. Your college career kind of had some peaks and valleys.  Can you just reflect on, you went through the incident at Oregon and now here you are drafted by the Knicks.  Have you kind of reflected on what you've been through?
DAMYEAN DOTSON: Oh, man, I do that every day.  Just my whole journey coming from Oregon, I was there two years, had a pretty good two seasons, transferred to the University of Houston for two years, played there for Kelvin Sampson.  It's been a great journey for me, just my hard work I put in and just staying true to myself and believing in myself, and to get here today is a blessing.
Q. When you were going through the thing at Oregon, did you think that was going to end your career?
DAMYEAN DOTSON: I tried to stay positive.  I didn't know what was going to happen, and I was just hoping for the best.
Q. What did the setbacks in your career teach you?
DAMYEAN DOTSON: Just to stay focused, learn from it, a maturity.  Just everything that guys don't get to experience right away, I got that experience early at 20 years old.  Just my maturity and just having the chance to play again and just working hard.  It made me work even harder.  It made me hungrier.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT