NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: DODGERS v CARDINALS
October 15, 2013
Zack Greinke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   I think you being here answers this question:   You are not starting today? 
ZACK GREINKE:   I don't think so.

Q.   The way this team has come together with so many free agent signings and high‑priced additions, I'm just curious whether it's seemed different to you than the way other teams have come together.   I know that was a concern early.   Has that affected the way the team has managed to gel? 
ZACK GREINKE:   The biggest difference for me is a lot of older players and people kind of know what they've got to do to get ready.   The younger guys, I mean, it's less counting on the younger guys and less helping out younger guys and answering fewer questions because people aren't constantly asking you how to do stuff, kind of. 
That's the biggest different vibe is that.   I mean, I don't know about how it's supposed to be making friends with guys, talking about getting along with players.   It's always been the same.   Just go play baseball kind of.

Q.   Some of the Cardinal players had some issue with the exuberance that Yasiel Puig and Adrian showed last night.   You as an opposing pitcher, would you have an issue if somebody showed that much enthusiasm for the game of baseball? 
ZACK GREINKE:   No, no comment, since he's on my team.

Q.   Had the Dodgers lost last night, do you think you'd be starting today?   If so, were you prepared to start today just in case? 
ZACK GREINKE:   I don't know.   Ask Donnie any questions revolving around when I'm pitching.

Q.   In theory, would you have any problem starting on three days' rest? 
ZACK GREINKE:   I don't know if I've answered that question every single time I come to this podium, but I'm not giving any hints out to the other team how I feel, what I might do, anything along those lines.

Q.   How does it affect your approach facing the same team in back‑to‑back starts? 
ZACK GREINKE:   It's weird kind of.   I always feel that usually you have, I mean, not always, but a lot of times you'll have like one good start, one bad start type thing, or if you do bad, you'll probably do good the next time.   If you do good, it's going to be‑‑ they're going to make an adjustment, and you've got to be faster than them at it.

Q.   During the season, Nolasco often said that by watching you pitch against a certain team that he was able to take certain things out of that.   This time you'll have the benefit of getting to watch him pitch before you take the mound.   What are some things you'll be looking for, and what do you think you might be able to get out of that? 
ZACK GREINKE:   Normally that would probably be the case, but I've faced St. Louis a dozen times and just faced them a couple days ago.   So it will be more what they've done against me instead of how they're swinging off of Ricky in this instance.

Q.   What was the most impressive thing about the way Ryu pitched last night as far as you were concerned? 
ZACK GREINKE:   I don't know.   He looked comfortable out there.   Watching him warm up he looked confident like he expected to do good and was ready to get out it seemed like.

Q.   Lance Lynn said yesterday with all of these low‑scoring games that these offenses are probably due at some point.   Do you think there is anything to that theory? 
ZACK GREINKE:   Yeah, it's possible.   I mean, same thing as always.   If you make really good pitches it's not much the offense can do, but they haven't had many like lucky hits so they're probably due for a couple like flairs and groundballs that just no one can get to.   I mean, maybe not, but wouldn't be surprise going that happens, because they've hit some balls pretty well that have been at guys so far. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT