NL DIVISION SERIES: DODGERS v BRAVES
October 3, 2013
Zack Greinke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Based on having been to the postseason before, how valuable do you see that experience being in your start tomorrow?   
ZACK GREINKE:   A little bit valuable.   Definitely not nothing, but probably not a big amount, either.   
   
 Q.   When you look at this Braves' lineup, what's the first thing that stands out to you about how to get these guys out?   
ZACK GREINKE:   They've got a bunch of power, and you kind of have to locate your pitches.   So I think those are the two main things.   If you don't locate them, they could do some damage.   
   
 Q.   The Braves obviously had their great run of division titles as you were growing up.   Do you have memories of watching them on TV a lot?   It seems like every October they were always in the playoffs at a very deep point.   
ZACK GREINKE:   I only remember watching one.   I think it was either the Twins or Blue Jays maybe, against them, that series.   Or maybe it was‑‑ I think it was actually the Indians.   But I remember one of them where ‑‑ that's about the only one I remember we were watching in the World Series.   And I watched a bunch of regular season games, but really don't remember any playoff games besides that one.   I just remember it was a big one, and there was a bunch of people at the house watching it.   
   
 Q.   It almost seemed a given that you were going to be the Game 2 starter, Clayton in Game 1.   Was that pretty much your assumption going into the postseason that that's how it would be?   
ZACK GREINKE:   Yeah, there was like one point where the rotation didn't line up that way, and I was wondering if they were ever going to switch it or not.   So that was the only time I wasn't sure.   But just pretty much assumed that more than likely that's how it would be.   Or I guess if we were‑‑ earlier on if we were in the wild card type game, it might have been different, too.   
   
 Q.   Why do you think it is that even despite the early injury that you've worked out so well here with the Dodgers?   A lot of times guys who sign a big contract struggle a little bit in that first year with the new team.   
ZACK GREINKE:   The pitching coach helped a lot, I think.   I mean, there's been like hardly any mistakes.   Since I started pitching there's been like no mistakes on the field, and that makes it easier.   But kind of helped the confidence.   
And then once you start doing good, it's easier to stay on the roll and execute a lot of pitches.   But that was because of a mechanical change, I think.   Maybe I'd have been pitching just as good without it, but I think it helped.   
   
 Q.   And are you comfortable in LA?   A lot of people I think maybe wondered whether you'd be a fit in LA.   I know you were asked that a lot.   Do you feel like you're a good fit?  
ZACK GREINKE:   I mean, the city is fine.   I can go wherever without it being a problem.   
   
 Q.   What has your past postseason performances taught you about pitching on this stage?   
ZACK GREINKE:   A little bit.   Just it's helped a little bit.   
   
 Q.   Any specifics at all?  
ZACK GREINKE:   No.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the momentum that you and Clayton tend to have pitching back to back?   Is it comforting for you to know that you're following him in that rotation?   It just seems like you guys have developed such a rhythm for the team.   
ZACK GREINKE:   It's not just us two.   I feel like just the whole team has been pitching good.   And when you watch other people do good, it makes it easier for you.   You almost‑‑ you start to think that it's normal and not out of the ordinary to pitch good.   It's more out of the ordinary if you don't pitch good since our whole staff has been good.   
   
 Q.   You're known for your honesty, so as you assess all these teams in the playoffs, who do you think has the best shot at winning it all?   
ZACK GREINKE:   It seems to be who a lot of times is playing best at the end, and I don't really know who that is.   I haven't paid a lot of attention to other teams.   
Just kind of making sure we get our stuff in order is the main thing I've been focusing on.   We definitely weren't playing the best at the end.   We need to do better.   
   
 Q.   How much has A.J. Ellis contributed to the way you've pitched this year?   
ZACK GREINKE:   Biggest thing I like about him is he‑‑ every team has their own scouting ways or whatever, and we look at the same stuff and have the same thoughts kind of on how to pitch guys.   It makes it easier because we're on the same page.   And he's probably got a little better memory than me, so if I forget who hits curves and who hits sliders or which person I should be throwing that to or inside‑outside with the breaking ball, he remembers that stuff when I forget sometimes.   
   
 Q.   I know this might be a little personal.   Can you take us through what tomorrow is going to look like, what kind of routine you go through on game day?   
ZACK GREINKE:   Probably just wake up, get some breakfast and go to the bathroom, come to the field.   Depends on how late I wake up, I'll take a nap and then come to the field, or just come straight to the field.   
   
 Q.   For a long time with the Yankees, it was always World Series championship or bust.   That was the ultimate measure of success for that franchise.   Do you feel like for the Dodgers it's the same thing, that you have to win it all for it to be a successful season?  
ZACK GREINKE:   I think that was the plan coming in.   It's probably the plan.   It's not easy, but I think that would be the only thing where everyone felt like we did what we came to do kind of.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT