TMS MONTE CARLO
April 20, 2000
Julien Boutter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Disappointed?

JULIEN BOUTTER: No. Disappointed would be a bit demanding on me. I had my tactics at
the beginning of the match and every time he had -- an answer faced me. The only times
when it went very well he made many unforced errors. Then very soon I was ahead, but then
it stopped and the balance broke. After 5-1 in the second it went fast, I couldn't stop --
I couldn't stop the bleeding. Compared to other players I was not tired but what was
missing was my serve. On my forehand the ball escaped me sometimes and that was enough.

Q. He has a bothering game?

JULIEN BOUTTER: Relatively speaking, yes. As soon as I was playing on his backhand
there was no problem, but sometimes he was able to turn his forehand and then he destroyed
my balance. When I was playing on his forehand he was making a big topspin on my forehand.
Then he was dominating. The thing is I should have served better. My strong point is a
good topspin and my serve, but I always had an answer in front of me. Either a fast ball,
either a ball which went down quickly, which was difficult to negotiate.

Q. He had to play at his best level?

JULIEN BOUTTER: I don't know. I never saw him very often play. He made it more
difficult for me than the other players.

Q. You succeeded in spying on him?

JULIEN BOUTTER: Yes, but it was not enough. Maybe I missed the last key.

Q. What lessons are you going to draw from such a tournament?

JULIEN BOUTTER: First I am going to keep good memories. It is not going to be
complicated. At this level on four matches I was able to sustain the rhythm. And in the
fifth match I was two points down before going to the third set. I still have to work a
bit more. Maybe endurance-wise; not only for the game but also psychologically - we are
going to work on that, but still it is encouraging. You are less talkative than yesterday.


Q. What are you doing afterwards? Are you going to rest before starting playing again?

JULIEN BOUTTER: No, we are going to continue while the muscles are warm.

Q. As soon as next week?

JULIEN BOUTTER: Yes, I will certainly play on Monday or Tuesday. We are going to go
over there and try to confirm what has been set up here.

Q. It is not usual to have a coach who is not a tennis player, but has other
experiences. What does he bring to you and what kind of advice does he give you? Is it
more mental?

JULIEN BOUTTER: In fact, he had a sports career before, but not in tennis. He had many
contacts with basketball players, gym, Federation players, Ralley drivers. Each time he
had good results. I think when you know what the high level is about, you can apply the
recipe in many other disciplines. He comes from a sports of combat, of opposition, of
forces, so even if the distances are not the same, they are similar points - on the match
approach, on the way of working, on the physical condition and it is very important.

Q. He sees many things that you don't see?

JULIEN BOUTTER: Yes, the fact that he comes from outside gives him a critical sight on
tennis and on top of it he has a good quality of communication. He is able to find out
things very well. He took very little time before being into it and understanding things
in tennis. Technically, of course, he doesn't know everything, but what is tactical, the
game phases, he understood very quickly. He surprises me. The fact of working with someone
who comes from outside brings a bit of new blood. It is appreciable. We can see the
result.

Q. But do you lack something from the technical and tactical point of view, from
someone that could give you some tricks?

JULIEN BOUTTER: I didn't say I had no contact with tennis coaches. On the contrary.
Yesterday I was saying that during preparation periods before the tournaments I was used
to go to the Roland Garros with Tulasne and Potier. So I have the technical support I
need. It is a good balance. I have someone from outside with and an impartial view and
other people who know tennis. It is complimentary.

Q. It is easy to go to a Challenger after a tournament like that?

JULIEN BOUTTER: The matches are like the other ones.

Q. Is it easy to go on after a good week like this to keep on being motivated?

JULIEN BOUTTER: You should not lose your rhythm. I am going to train and practice
again. After I will have a break and prepare for the French Open. I will keep my rhythm
and practice during the next two days two or three times a day; then I am going to go to
Maya.

Q. Are you going to be to expect more from yourself?

JULIEN BOUTTER: What do you mean?

Q. Are you going to expect more from your preparation?

JULIEN BOUTTER: No, many things have been settled here. I am going to try to play my
own tennis. What is true is in one way is also true in the other. Those who are less well
ranked than I am, I will have to beat them in the same way. An opponent remains an
opponent. But I don't think it will be difficult to continue. I am not saying I am going
to win but I am going to continue with what I have started here.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT