TMS MONTE CARLO
April 19, 2000
Julien Boutter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. It is a nice feeling to come back twice in two days in the interview room? 
 
 JULIEN BOUTTER: I thought it was only once a week and after I was rid of it. But I am
not going to complain. 
 
Q. Did you know Sargsian before?
 
 JULIEN BOUTTER: No, not even in practice and I didn't see him play many matches. I
tried to gather some items of information here and there. In fact, they were good
information. 
 
Q. What was this information?
 
 JULIEN BOUTTER: Well, you have to play high and keep him on the forehand because with
his backhand he hits very early and he distributes the game. These conditions were special
because the sun was setting down and half of the court was in the shadow. It was really
shadowy and the ball left easily the sight of your eye. So this made the conditions
difficult. He didn't adapt at all. My serve is a bit better than his and it made the
difference. I tried to push him down during the whole match and it went well. 
 
Q. It was very fast, third round, nice little match, quiet and all?
 
 JULIEN BOUTTER: Yes, it is true, but it is part of tennis. We talked about it
yesterday, the fact of taking things as they happen, whoever is the opponent. Simply
speaking, I am satisfied with tennis. I am able to repeat some patterns sometimes in my
game without heating up to much, as we say, and I am satisfied about that particular
point. If you play players in the qualies it is all right, but they are of the same
ranking I am and what I am pleased with is my level of game rather than the opponents I
had. 
 
Q. Your level is above the one you had when you won in Cherbourg and deuce is an sewn
two weeks ago and Besancon?
 
 JULIEN BOUTTER: It was indoors, therefore, different and the opponents had the same
ranking I had, so things were completely different. Indoors it is another way of hitting
the ball. I had no fear. We worked hard in the French stadium in Roland Garros and we
worked hard in the gym to prepare this type of game on clay. It went relatively quickly
because last week I qualified myself. I played Cagliari, Cagliari. It is a satisfying
result. 
 
Q. And Gaudio, do you know him?
 
 JULIEN BOUTTER: Not very much. I know his name, but I know he has a very good backhand.
It is the same thing I am going to spy on him here and there to get the necessary
information. Normally it is the work of my coach. 
 
Q. Does your coach work in the DST?
 
 JULIEN BOUTTER: I don't know, but he is efficient. 
 
Q. Financially what does it represent for you? We never talk about that aspect?
 
 JULIEN BOUTTER: I have a very simple relationship with money. If you have money, all
the better. If you don't have any, too bad. When I was a student I didn't have much money,
but it doesn't change much. Except that now I can foresee the future without fear. 
 
Q. Before could you pay your coach for travelling with you?
 
 JULIEN BOUTTER: In fact, when we started, it was a bit difficult. I started playing
tournaments in the summer. I had about 40 to 50,000 Francs savings. So during the
tournaments I was trying to choose a low price hotel. Of course, I was eating as much as I
wanted, but I was trying to save money and the system we were working on was a percentage.
When I was winning, the coach earned something and if I didn't win, he had nothing. Little
by little the situation changed. What is most important in this is the human adventure. It
is a little company firm we created. We have strong and intense relationships. 
 
Q. Are you relaxed when you go step on to the court?
 
 JULIEN BOUTTER: Quite so like here in this interview room, it is okay. Of course, there
are moments where I am a bit tense on the court but it is normal to be afraid or to be
stressed. 
 
Q. First the qualies and then you go up and up. Is there pressure building up?
 
 JULIEN BOUTTER: Before each match we talk with David during a quarter of an hour and we
discuss about what is going to happen. Generally I don't have many surprises with what
happens on the court. Of course, there is always some uncertainty. 
 
Q. The French Open, do you think about it? Now that you have won two matches here you
have new prospects before you, a wildcard is almost sure now.
 
 JULIEN BOUTTER: I take these things as they come. I am in this tournament, I am happy,
we will see when the tournament will be over. It is true that I would like to have this
wildcard. Now I believe it will be possible. When is the limit for registration for
Wimbledon? Maybe I could be in the draw. 
 
Q. What about the idea of playing on center court because you are going to have that
right now?
 
 JULIEN BOUTTER: I played on center court twice already. 
 
Q. Oh, yes, for the qualies. Did you have many spectators for the qualies?
 
 JULIEN BOUTTER: Yes, I was surprised because there were many people. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT