BELL MICRO LPGA CLASSIC
September 14, 2008
Kimberly Hall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JASON TAYLOR: Kim, thanks for coming in. Another great round. Good job this week. 
 KIM HALL: Thank you.

 Q. Your thoughts?
 KIM HALL: You know, I'm a little bit relieved and a little satisfaction because I have really been working hard all year long. And I've had such a lull in the middle of the year, and kind of my hard work wasn't showing and getting a little frustrated and discouraged. 
 But I went over the last two weeks and I really worked hard on my short game and changed a couple things on my putting, and it's really helped me a lot, so I'm happy about that.
 JASON TAYLOR: Okay. Questions. 

 Q. What specifically did you change about your putting technique?
 KIM HALL: A little bit in my setup. I tend to set up with my hands kind of just over the ball and sometimes get in behind the ball a little bit, so I tried to set them up a little more forward pressed and kind of just really used my elbows and wrists a little bit more. 
 I was getting really stiff and trying to use my shoulders too much in my putting, and I could never get the ball started on line, so just trying to simplify it and make it a little bit more of a natural stroke. 

 Q. And they're going to make changes to this course. 
 KIM HALL: Uh-huh.

 Q. Later in December. They're going to soften the greens and do some other things, some holes will be dramatically different. Do you think you'll like that or did you like the way the course was set up anyway? 
 KIM HALL: It's set up really well for me. I'm actually really happy that it dried out a bit because when I played my practice round on Monday, I was in a lot of five irons and high ridge clubs. 
 I'm not really a long-ball hitter, so the fact we didn't get too much rain from Ike and all that really helped me just have a few shorter clubs in, so like you said, the greens were pretty firm, so I'm sure whatever they do will be wonderful. The Trail is really good golf courses, so I'm sure whatever they're going to do will be great. 

 Q. You said yesterday with the Wilhelmina this was the chance to show you girls can play. 
 KIM HALL: Yeah.

 Q. Do you think you proved that even more today with the round today?
 KIM HALL: Yeah. You know, it's a little bit of validation, and all the girls from Wilhelmina were out watching the last few holes, so that was fun to see the group out there cheering me on, so that's kind of what it's all about for us in the Wilhelmina. 

 Q. Is this your best finish this year?
 KIM HALL: Yes. I had a tie for 10 at Mexico City, and then I could have just been on vacation after that. (Laughs). But yeah, this is definitely my best finish, actually in my career.

 Q. Tell me a little bit about what that means to you at this point in your career. 
 KIM HALL: You know, I just kind of showed myself I could do it. I was telling Steph from Golf Channel that I've never really been a good putter and chipper, and you know, to really score out here, you gotta be able to putt and chip on the days when you hit it bad. 
 And I did that on Friday's round. I really stayed in there and kind of showed myself that I actually do have a short game. So it's really nice because my ball tracking has always been very good, and I've worked really hard on my swing and my fitness and everything, so it's nice to have the other part of the game come together, too. 
 JASON TAYLOR: All right. Thanks so much. Congratulations. 
 KIM HALL: Yeah. Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT