U.S. OPEN
September 8, 1994
Carol Otis
Ann Person Worcester
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. PERSON-WORCESTER:  First of all I'd like to apologize for the hour of this press conference. I understand that there are many of you who wanted us to do it a little earlier.  It is all my fault.  I have been in back-to-back meetings and I apologize and we got out here just as soon as we could.  We will speak quickly and share all of our good news with you and we appreciate your being here.  My name is Anne Person Worcester, I am the Managing Director of the Women's Tennis Council which is the governing body of the WTA Tour.  It is comprised of players tournaments and the International Tennis Federation.  With me is Pam Shriver, former president of the WTA Tour Players Association.  And Dr. Carol Otis, chairperson of our Age Eligibility Commission.  A year ago, just to give you a little bit of background as to how we got to where we are today, a year ago the Players Association, actually, it was Pam herself on behalf of the Players Association, came to the Women's Tennis Council and requested that we conduct a very thorough and independent study of the current age rule, which, as you all know, on the women's tennis tour allows for women players to compete at an age of 14 years.  The Women's Tennis Council then established an international panel of health and medical experts to conduct this independent review of the rule and to come back to the counsel regarding the appropriateness of the current rule.  This panel is comprised of medical and health experts from four countries and three different continents.  It includes sports psychologists, sports sociologists, kinesiologist, primary care, sports medicine experts and an athletic trainer.  The Age Eligibility Commission, which was what we call "the Panel," convened in London during Wimbledon and heard testimony from approximately 30 to 40 individuals inside and outside professional tennis including former players Tracy Austin who is in the audience, she was one of those that we heard from, Andrea Jaeger, Pam Shriver, Elyse Bergen, friends in the media, Bud Collins, Mary Carillo, Sally Jenkins, administrators, Debbie Jevans, ITF, our friends from the management companies Phil DiPicciotto, Bob Kain, Stephanie Tollesen, Dick Dell.  We really heard from a wide array of individuals from all aspects of our sport.  The commission also received more than 2,000 pages of written testimony which is an exhaustive amount from all different areas of individuals inside and outside the world of tennis and they continue to receive more written testimony after Wimbledon and into the summer.  Then they began the illustrious task of trying to deliberate and reach a consensus on -- not just our current rule, but on all the attendant factors which are so important to ensure the well-being of women tennis players.  Looking at the questions of psychological counseling and how to better educate parents and support groups, and whether or not we should have mentor programs.  So it was a charge that was much more wide reaching than just at what age and how many tournaments, but rather how can we maximally assist young players in coming onto the Tour in all areas of their life.  Social, educational, psychological, and otherwise.  So it really is with great pride that I can say that the Age Eligibility Commission, submitted its findings today to the Women's Tennis Council in a hotel in midtown Manhattan.  We received the report and we have agreed in principle to the recommendations of the Age Eligibility Commission.  We don't have a lot of great detail for you today, I will tell you in advance, but we have a lot of good information and Carol Otis, Dr. Carol Otis, who is our chairperson, will walk you through a little bit of how they got to their recommendations and what their recommendations are.  I'd also like to recognize one other commission member in the audience Dr. Paul Roetert who is the director of sports science for the USTA he was our kinesiologist on our panel.  Seated next to him is Kathleen Stroia, the athletic trainer who works for the WTA Tour Players Association who gave the medical and health experts great insight after having worked so closely with our professional players.  So it is with great honor and pride that I now turn the mic over to Dr. Carol Otis, who is our expert in primary care sports medicine and emphasis on female athletes.  She works primarily with collegiate athletes and holds academic and clinical positions at U.C.L.A. in California, Carol.  
 
DR. OTIS:  Thank you very much and thank you, Pam, for bringing this very important question forward.  As i reviewed with you, we went through quite a comprehensive approach to answering the question.  Our mission in the question we were asked to answer was not only about the age eligibility rule, but also what can be done to promote the career fulfillment and the career longevity of young women participating in the professional Tour and how can the Tour environment be best modeled in order to assure their career longevity and their well-being.  The Tour in its wisdom and evaluating policy and part of that revision looking at itself was to form the Age Eligibility Commission.  We operate independently.  We are all experts in our own field.  And we operated in a way that I think you will find as comprehensive and multi-disciplinary.  Our answers will be not only about the appropriate age for participation in the professional Tour, but also what factors create stressors and what factors ameliorate those stressors on the Tour.  As I mentioned part of the process that we followed was three fold.  I am going to review with you first the process that we followed; secondly, some of the statistical information that we learned.  I think sometimes this information you will hear for the very first time because it hadn't been collected before, then I am going to review what our recommendations were.  In general, the three steps that we followed in obtaining our information were, first of all, to do a review of the relevant medical, psychological and sports science literature about what injuries and strains there are on people playing professional or elite tennis.  Second thing we did was to look statistically at what the experience has been for young women playing on the Tour from 1980 up until December of 1983.  And that statistical analysis was done looking at the top 225 players on the Tour.  Thirdly, we gathered expert testimony from over 100 people representing all the worlds of tennis, some of that testimony was collected in person, by written -- oral testimony, and I thank those of you in the media who participated in that because your comments were very helpful to us.  We also gathered written testimony.  And from the players, we gathered, from a statistically designed questionnaire, some information that they gave us as well.  In that, we asked 6 major questions. Those questions were:  
 
Number 1) Is the current age eligibility rule appropriate?  
 
Number 2) At what age should young women participate in the professional Tour on an unrestricted basis?  
 
Number 3)  At what age would you feel it is appropriate for young women to be on the Tour, with restrictions?  
 
Number 4)  Should there be a phased-in approach to participating in the Tour?  
 
Number 5)  What are the major stressors on the Tour?  
 
Number 6)  What are the major things that need to be in place on the Tour to assure well-being for the players.  
 
In the report that will be released, and I am told it is going to be about this thick-- (indicating two inches)-- you will see is the answer to most of these questions in more detail.  I want to give you some broad strokes from what we learned about the statistics.  First of all, we learned from the players-- again, I am talking here about the top 225 ranked players from 1980 to December of 1993 that it is uncommon and fairly rare for an individual to achieve success on the Tour at a young age.  In fact, those that have been successful at a young age, we find that the incidents of those individuals leaving the Tour before the age of 20 is highest by a wide margin when a woman turns professional at an age of 13, 14.  Over 19 percent turning professional at that age have left the Tour before 20. In contrast, individuals have turned professional after age 18 have left the tour at a rate of 2.7 percent a year.  Currently, there are no women ranked in the top 225 who are ranked and who are fourteen or fifteen years old, and the average age of women on the Tour is 22.86 years.  There will be more statistical information available in the final report.  Some of the medical and psychological information that we obtained was particularly important when we think about the young women who not only are participating in the Tour, but also the vast larger numbers of young women who are training, and possibly competing at the junior level, but training intensively for possibly a career at elite tennis, this involves young girls beginning training as young as 3 to 6; doing very intensive training during the years of puberty. Those years, I am sure you remember all too well, all of the changes that happen to your body and your emotions during that period of time; we know that that developmental phase of puberty in all adolescents from a medical and psychological point of view is a critical phase of development.  And some of the pressures and strains of training and competing in tennis may disrupt that developmental phase.  This is a critical time for a young woman when she developing herself self esteem; going through important body changes and hormonal changes; when her body composition is changing, when she is socializing with your peers and developing herself as an individual, separating from her family and connecting with her peer group.  It also is a critical phase for her development of body image, self esteem and for some, career educational decisions.  Our medical and psychological information indicates that young women training intensively at this time has a disruption of this developmental phase and they may be more prone to developing certain acute and chronic long-term medical and psychological problems.  These include chronic muscular skeletal injuries, disorders in eating, amenorrhea (phonetic), and female athlete triad and other psychological problems; the summation of that area of information indicated some real concern about early participation for women in international widely diverse event such as professional tennis is today.  Last I had the information that we obtained from our expert witnesses, both oral and written testimony, I can summarize in some detail now.  The individuals giving testimony 97.5% said that the current age eligibility rule is not appropriate.  When we asked them at what age should a young woman play unrestricted on the professional Tour; over 40% said that age should be 18.  When we asked these individuals at what age should they be allowed to play unrestricted on the Tour; the greater percentage, more than 30 percent said it should be 16 years or greater and less than 1 percent -- less than 2 percent said they should play at an age of 13 or 14.  When we asked the question should a phase-in approach be adopted for participation on the professional Tour 88 percent of our experts said yes.  When we asked what are the major stressors on the Tour, both players and also other individuals giving testimony listed over 20 different stressors.  The top 6 were, the media, loneliness --  
 
A. PERSON-WORCESTER:  Congratulations.  
 
DR. OTIS:  I might add, commission members would probably put the media up there too.  But the media, parents and family, competition, loneliness were among the top indicated stressors.  
 

Q.  Was that in order? 
 
DR. OTIS:  I can give it to you in order if you'd like it in exact order.  
 

Q.  Please. 
 
DR. OTIS:  Okay.  
 

Q.  You don't name names do you? 
 
A. PERSON-WORCESTER:  Only you, Schmerler.  
 
DR. OTIS:  No.  The major stressors on the Tour, listed in order.  Parents and family, travel, loneliness, media, competition, agents.  Those all had a greater than 25% of the respondents' listing those as stressors.  
 

Q.  What else is there? 
 
DR. OTIS:  We have a list -- we have at least 20.  The other factors are what factors would you like to see implemented on the WTA Tour and I can go in order of what they would like to see.  Seminars and more educational material available to deal with some of the stressors.  A counseling program.  Mentor program. Physicians -- physicals and psychological testing and monitoring.  Breaks from the Tour.  And a better feedup system.  Those were all mentioned by 10% or more of the stressors on the Tour.  So based on the accumulated information that we obtained from our statistical analysis, our medical and psychological review, and the testimony from experts, we are going to recommend that there be substantial changes in the current age eligibility rule.  It is overwhelmingly the consensus of those giving the testimony and it was the unanimous consensus of the members of the commission, the recommendation that we will bring forward, and have been given to the WTC.  The substantial changes in the Age Eligibility Rule you will see are a multi-faceted comprehensive approach to the Tour.  And we are not going to recommend changes in the Age Eligibility Rule alone.  It is imperative that any changes in the rule be coupled with support systems existing on the Tour in two formats.  One type of support system is directed at the individual player.  And another type of support system is directed for the Tour as a whole.  And those recommendations are essential to be coupled along with changes in the Age Eligibility Rule, so that we can have a successful Tour and one that does preserve the health and the well being of our players.  In general, the change in the Age Eligibility Rule is that the current Age Eligibility Rule is not appropriate.  No woman should be playing unrestricted on the Tour before the age of 18.  There will be restrictions on the number of events played and there will be a gradual phase-in approach on a year by year basis.  This is better to serve a linkage between young women who are highly successful at the junior level and are because of their athletic prowess and ability are ready to compete against other women professionals, so there will an phase-in approach with gradual participation allowed beginning at age 14.  The participation levels have been put forward as the recommendations that will come in the future.  In addition to that, we are strongly recommending that any individual before she decides to compete on the Tour go through a series of educational seminars and there are six components to what we are recommending for the individual player that go along with the changes in the rule.  The first component is that she should attend a mandatory educational series of seminars, that deals with such aspects as nutrition; periodization of training; proper training techniques; how to deal with the media; and other topics that the players indicate would be helpful.  In addition, we are recommending that the individual's parents or legal guardians also go through a series of educational seminars.  A third recommendation specific to the player is that the individuals identify player's coach or agent be registered with the WTC, and agree in writing to abide by the rules -- register with the WTC to abide by the rules  of the WTA Tour and sign a code of ethics. Another recommendation has to do with-- will have to do with the Tour environment in general.  We felt that the most effective system for support of the players currently on the Tour is the athletic trainer primary health care provider system. Those of you who are familiar with the Tour at all Tour events, there is a consistent group of athletic trainers, physiotherapist, who are available to the individuals, not only for training concerns, but the players clearly identify with these, that these are the individuals to whom they turn if they have a question or they need information.  We believe that this system should be strengthened and the individuals providing that support should be available and have more counseling skills as part of their background and their training.  So we are recommending strengthening that program.  In addition, we are recommending that they establish a mentor program, a volunteer program by which interested players who either are former players or older players who are willing to be involved on a voluntary basis and have some expertise or are willing to go through some training that these peers be trained to help other peers, other players, deal with some of the pressures and the stressors of the Tour.  Again that would be a voluntary program and the individuals identified would be self-identified and would have training as a background.  We also believe the WTC should work with the tournaments to limit evening play for individuals under the age of 16 and that there should be more opportunity for players for socialization.  We are going to advocate as members coming from a sports science and sports medicine community also that ongoing research be looked into to better identify some of the problems and some of the areas of concern for women professional tennis players.  And lastly, we are going to advise WTC to establish an ongoing review of the Age Eligibility Rule, the recommendation and have a medical and scientific advisory panel that will take some of the ability will take action to look at some of the changes and continue with the recommendations.  I believe that what we have done is looked at a very complex problem in an international world in which we are dealing with women with varying ability and ages.  I think we have taken a multi-disciplinary approach.  I think we have been able to hear from plain aspects of the tennis world; what their concerns and interests are, and I sincerely hope that the recommendations that this commission has worked hard to put forward will be successful and assure the career fulfillment of the players on the Tour.  Thank you.  
 

Q.  How large a road staff do you need to implement the various programs you are talking about here? 
 
A. PERSON-WORCESTER:  We already have you know, on road staff and excellent health services department and one of the findings of the Age Eligibility Commission was just how valuable our athletic trainers and our massage therapists are in terms of already doing some unofficial psychological counseling and having supplying players with an outlet for someone in whom they can trust.  I think what our aim is to do is to build on our current resources and expand not only through our health services program, but also utilize our on road staff who are travelling the circuit with players and also in terms of the regulation of agent and coach certification and the establishment of minimum education requirements, those will happen in our, you know, in our headquarters so -- some of them may not happen January 1, 1995; some of them will happen throughout -- will begin throughout the year; some are easier to implement than others for sure.  
 

Q.  What kind of restrictions will be on players under the age of 18 and when will that be implemented.  Can we pass out the copy of the paper while we are talking about. . . 
 
A. PERSON-WORCESTER:  Absolutely.  
 

Q.  Last question answered, please.  In other words, how many tournaments can they play at 14, 15, 16, 17? 
 
A. PERSON- WORCESTER:  We just heard this very lengthy report this morning and counsel fully supports a restricted schedule at the age of 14 and unrestricted schedule not until a player reaches the age of 18 and we need to work out the details of the number of ITF's future circuits, the number of three's and four's and number of majors, so we don't have those details for you today.  We have referred that to a smaller group of experts who understand the tier structure a lot better than a group of 15 council members.  So, we, hopefully, will have that information in the coming weeks.  
 

Q.  Specific recommendations as to how many tournaments a 14 year old should play and 15 year old? 
 
DR. OTIS:  What we did do and I am following the medical model here is we really wanted to look at the appropriate dosage of international tennis that would be traded for the individual.  We have come up with recommendations of the maximum number of events per year AT certain ages.  When that number is released you will find a significant reduction.  
 

Q.  Can you release it to us now? 
 
DR. OTIS:  I am not sure.  Can you release the numbers AND which numbers -- printout of the --  
 
A. PERSON- WORCESTER:  No, I really think that we need to do a little bit more -- the medical and health experts came to us with some numbers that do need some more refinement.  
 

Q.  If 97 percent of your feedback and data suggested that the age the current age is too low, and that people should be 18 years old, how can you possibly justify allowing 14 year olds to play professional tennis, nothing has changed? 
 
DR. OTIS:  I think that you will see that there are significant changes, not only with the age, but also with the factors that are in place.  What we have heard from the majority of our witnesses was that an individual should be phased into exposure on the Tour. That to allow an individual who is A phenomenal player and really ready to handle the physical and emotional demands of the tour, to not allow that individual a limited exposure to international tennis could be harmful; that rather it would be better to bring her into the environment where there is a protection; where there is educational systems; where the agents and the coaches are also informed about what the stress of the Tour are; seem to be most important for those giving testimony.  
 

Q.  We have got something here --? 
 
A. PERSON- WORCESTER:  A follow-up to Mary's, question.  While I don't want to go into all these details today, I think you will be glad to know that there are very few numbers of tournaments that were looking at the age of 14 and they are all -- none of them are WTA Tour events.  They are all ITF future events.  So it is a very limited exposure to international tennis.  
 

Q.  If the rule doesn't go into effect until January 1, does that mean a 14 year old who starts before January 1, will be unrestricted? 
 
A. PERSON- WORCESTER:  Yeah, she will fall under the current age eligibility rule which allows her to play 12 tournaments.  
 

Q.  Which means Martina Hingis who is turning 14 will be allowed? 
 
A. PERSON-WORCESTER:  Yes, that applies to Martina Hingis.  
 

Q.  What were the legal ramifications regarding say, an Anna Kournikova, what were your findings that they could say restrain of trade or whatever? 
 
A. PERSON-WORCESTER:  We have had legal counsel all through this process.  It is probably no surprise.  And I don't want to go into the specifics of his advice because of attorney/client privileges, but I can say that we are into the phase-in approach of a player who is 14, 15, 16, 17, or 18.  We will allow players who turn 14 during the year of 1995 to be treated as if they were 15, and so on.  So in other words, Anna Kournikova or certain reason that Williams should they choose to start playing the Tour, they will fall under the regulations of a 15 year old, for the restrictions of a 15 year old when they are 14.  
 

Q.  You are saying that you are seriously considering allowing a 14 year old to play no WTA tournaments until she is 15; is that what you are saying? 
 
A. PERSON-WORCESTER:  Yes, except if she turns 14 in 1995 -- if she turns 14 in 1994 she is in under the current rules; she can play 12 tournaments.  If she turns 14 next year, she will be treated as if she is 15.  If she turns 14 in 1996 no WTA Tour tournaments; only ITF futures events.  
 

Q.  Any restrictions on Grand Slam Events.  Why? 
 
A. PERSON-WORCESTER:  Sorry.  
 

Q.  Any restrictions on Grand Slam participation for these children? 
 
A. PERSON- WORCESTER:  The committee did come back to us with recommendations in that regard and we have not yet met with friends, our friends in the Grand Slam committee which we are planning to do in the next couple of days.  And so I'd like to be able to speak again.  We just heard this recommendation today and, yes, the age commission did look at Grand Slam eligibility and we need to talk to the Grand Slam committee.  
 

Q.  What is the process, in other words, you have these recommendations before you now.  Does that mean you automatically accept the recommendations?  Have you accepted them? 
 
A. PERSON-WORCESTER:  We have accepted the recommendations in principle, but we have a little bit of fine tuning to do with regard to the specific number of tournaments a 14 year old can play, a 15 year old can play, 16, 17, 18.  The committee came back to us with recommendations on a number of events including WTA Tour events, ITF futures events, Grand Slams, exhibitions, all kinds of events because they looked at this in terms of international travel, international stress; not just playing a Tour event being more stressful than an exhibition.  So we had hoped to come with more specifics today, but we got a little bit bogged down with the refinements and the details, and so because we understood that you all were so eager to hear the basic principles of the commissions findings, we decided to come and tell you about the basic findings, but we don't have all the details.  
 

Q.  Doctor Otis, in trying to take a part this one statistic which seems to me rather forceful.  40% say that people shouldn't play until they are 18.  Did that mean, play as professionals until they are 18, or start at 13 and -- 
 
DR. OTIS:  That was to play unrestricted.  Gentlemen, that was 40% of those who gave testimony, oral and written, felt that there should be no unrestrictive play under the age of 18.  
 
P. SHRIVER:  By turning professional I think the wording, turn professional, I think, what is meant by that is compete on the WTA Tour.  Because in the states like, for instance, when I got TO the finals here at 16, I was an amateur; I didn't turn professional until I was 17.  My date is when I first started to compete on the Tour, which was 15 and a half, you know, 1978.  So, just for clarification, it is when you start to compete; not when, as an American, you turn pro.  
 

Q.  Dr. Otis, can you share with us the educational -- your recommendations for the educational requirements? 
 
DR. OTIS:  Yesterday what our view is and it will be in a lot of details is that the individuals come and earn residence for a period of time.  We envision this being longer than two or three days.  That it is an interactive type of education, not sitting in a classroom; that it includes the components about nutrition--  
 

Q.  Education as in finishing high school? 
 
DR. OTIS:  That she meet the legal requirement for her country of residence; that she either meets it or is continuing to progress meeting it while she competes on the professional Tour.  
 

Q.  She could be doing correspondence courses exactly as they are allegedly doing now? 
 
DR. OTIS:  It would have to meet the legal requirements of the country of origin.  
 

Q.  This has been setup for the good of the player, physical and mental and emotional.  One sentence here I'd like to question.  "A player who is presently on the Tour will not be subject to the new rule regardless of a player's age."  In other words, you are going to allow someone who is on the Tour now, even though she may be 14 to continue and have the hazards that you have said cannot be given to any of these others.  Why? 
 
A. PERSON-WORCESTER:  Because we didn't feel that it was fair to -- to introduce a rule on January 1, 1995 and make it retroactive.  Similar to why we are treating a 14 year old -- a player who turns 14 in 1995 as a 15 year old, players make personal and professional plans to begin competition, just like we -- I went through college to prepare for my career.  So we didn't think that it was fair -- September - whatever today is- 1994 to let them know that their careers will be dramatically changed for the next four years.  
 

Q.  Even though they face the hazards that you have mentioned with all the these statistics and I think it is important to know that we will, in introducing these surrounding programs, mentor programs, and increasing socialization between players and player orientation, that we would encourage a young player of 14 years old to participate in all those programs. 

Q.  In other words, what you are saying those who will not be subject to the new rule are going to be asked to take part? 
 
A. PERSON-WORCESTER:  An to participate in an orientation program and for her parents or her support system to participate in educational programs despite the fact that with regard to the age and the number of tournaments she does qualify under the current rule.  
 

Q.  But she will not be required to do so?   Is that an obligation -- are the parents given a choice whether to participate in this or is it qualification of the player on the WTA Tour; your parents have to participate in this; your agent has to participate? 
 
A. PERSON-WORCESTER:  An obligation.  
 

Q.  Does this mean that Venus Williams would have to join the Tour by the end of this year?  Her father indicated he would wait until next year.  Next year she would fall -- you are saying to her -- 
 
A. PERSON- WORCESTER:  We talked about that at great length today.  If Venus Williams turned 14 in July of this year, even though she may not play in 1994, we felt it was only fair to treat her just like Martina Hingis even though Martina Hingis will play in Zurich at our tournament in Zurich, so if Venus chooses to participate on the WTA Tour in 1995, she will be treated as a 15 year old; not a 14 year old.  
 

Q.  She is grandfathered in? 
 
A. PERSON- WORCESTER:  No, she will be grandfathered under the current rules, excuse me.  She can play 12 tournaments in 12 months.  
 

Q.  When you look at the reasons why tennis players dropped off the Tour, was it more towards psychological emotional reasons or more towards physical? 
 
DR. OTIS:  I wish that I could tell you what those reasons were because we don't have that data. There hasn't been any going back to those people to ask them why they dropped off the Tour and all we have is the number of years that they did compete on the Tour before they left the Tour.  
 

Q.  Any sense in talking to people in the testimony? 
 
DR. OTIS:  That certainly could be part of ongoing research project, gather more information about why people leave the Tour at earlier ages or who don't remain on the Tour for the average duration of time.  
 

Q.  Did you receive any appreciable amount of comment from child psycyologists from Eastern Europe, for example, where a lot of your children come from and if you did, did they have a measurable difference of opinion about the maturity of their children than the American psychologists? 
 
DR. OTIS: To the best of my knowledge, did not get that particular testimony.  Paul, you could correct me or Kathleen, we did not specifically get testimony from Eastern European psychologists; did we?  
 
PAUL:  We don't have a breakdown we just have--  
 
DR. OTIS:  We do have psychologists and medical doctors from Europe, none that I know specifically from the eastern block countries before the change.  
 

Q.  Did you find that the opinions of maturity of their children differ substantially -- 
 
DR. OTIS:  Not that the ones whose opinions we did obtain they have very similar views to the other areas that we sampled such as from the southern hemisphere and from the Americas.  
 

Q.  Has your legal counsel assured you that whatever you say is going to be the rule, is a rule, or is that why you are kind of tip toeing along here with the age thing; that it might cause trouble? 
 
A. PERSON-WORCESTER:  No lawyer in the world that can assure you of anything and we have one of the best in the world.  We are not at this point tip-toeing around details because of anything legal.  We are really tip-toeing around details because we had just the wrong -- we had people -- we felt that details of the number of tournaments and at which level-- I mean, we have a lot of different levels in women's tennis for those of you who are not familiar with our tier structure was better suited for a smaller group within our rules committee of Tennis Council who understand the tier structure much better than the 15 council members that were assembled today.  
 

Q.  Have you heard of from, say, the Kournikovas, anybody who might fall into -- I guess you have? 
 
A. PERSON-WORCESTER:  I haven't heard from the Kournikovas.  I have heard from a couple of other families.  
 

Q.  What is their reaction? 
 
A. PERSON-WORCESTER:  I spent a day about two or three weeks ago with the Williams family in Delray Beach and my primary reason for going down there to explain all that we had done and to really make sure he understood our commission and how independent and how objective and how thorough they were going about this review and to say that you know, if Venus never comes on the Tour, that is fine, and just to make sure he understood that we are doing as much as we possibly can to promote career longevity and career fulfillment.  
 

Q.  What was his reaction? 
 
A.  He was thrilled that I took the time to come down to Florida.  He has written to me a couple of times ever since.  He asked me a lot of questions about all these attendant factors.  He is very interested not just in the age and the number of tournaments, but orientation and education and normal social lives for his children and it was nine of the best spent hours I have had this year to be honest.  
 

Q.  On the point of legal ramifications, has there been any push or is it still too early from any management group or anybody else on the point of challenging there -- if not do you expect something to come up. . . 
 
A. PERSON-WORCESTER:  We saw oral and written testimony from the three management companies with whom we deal with most in women's tennis; that is IMG, ProServe and Advantage.  Not only did they prepare written testimony and make time to come and present oral testimony, but their written testimony were very specific, very creative, very well thought out, and they have communicated with me-- all of them have communicated with me regularly on this topic and have all extended their complete support of what we have done because, you know, as they say it is in their best interest for their clients to play tennis as long as possible.  
 

Q.  Please correct the impression I am getting from this, you guys spent six months listening to all kinds of testimony, and scientific know-how; all that stuff, and you have overwhelmingly agreed that people shouldn't be playing-- girls shouldn't be playing tennis at the age of 14; that it should be at least a couple of years higher and now you are going against all of your findings? 
 
A. PERSON-WORCESTER:  How is that?  
 

Q.  You are.   People can still play professional tennis it still -- it sounds like you all agree overwhelmingly there is not a person on the planet who thinks that 14 year old should be allowed to play tennis; that these people have to be protected, that this is everything that has been going on for the last couple of years is wrong and it is still the same.  Essentially except for a little bit of tweaking? 
 
P. SHRIVER:  It is not the same.  It's a major change.  
 

Q.  Where? 
 
P. SHRIVER:  18 is when you can first start to play a full schedule.  At 14, as Anne mentioned, you are not allowed to play regular WTA Tour events. That is a huge change.  Now, you can play 10 -- 12 plus the championships now.  Anne, you know, said and in between is a step process from, 14, zero regular WTA Tour events; that doesn't mean we have the ITF futures which are 10,000 up to 75,000 --  
 

Q.  I understand that you are trying to downgrade -- 
 
P SHRIVER:  18 they can play a full schedule.  At 15 they can play more than at 14; less than at 16 and at 16, they can play more than at 15, but a lot less than a full schedule; still that is considerably different than what you have now, which, in my view, and in my written testimony as a player, I see it at 14 now is just about a full schedule.  It is 12 regular Tour which can include all the Grand Slams, which is 16 weeks of tournaments, plus if you qualify, championships.  The proposal that I heard this morning for the first time and I must say it is the most confidential thing in tennis that I have seen -- confidential -- it is comprehensive and confidential and nobody on the council, with the exception of the committee a couple of days ago had seen it, so I am just saying none of the other board members of the Players Association have seen it; there is a lot of people that have not even heard what you all are hearing now that have very big interest in it, but it is a great change from the system of the last ten years.  
 
A. PERSON-WORCESTER:  Let me make sure that you understand what we said because maybe we haven't been clear.  Right now 14 years old can play 12 tournaments plus the championships if she qualifies. Next year she can play zero WTA Tour tournaments.  Zero. Zero.  What she is allowed to play is four ITF Futures tournaments.  Have you ever been to an ITF Futures circuit tournament?  $25,000 tournament, $50,000 tournament.  Very different from --  
 

Q.  All I am saying what still exists is that little 6 year old girls are going to be running wind sprints and doing push-ups and sit-ups because they are still aiming for the same thing? 
 
A. PERSON-WORCESTER:  They have to stay in the juniors so much longer.  If you can only play four ITF Futures tournaments at age 14, and I will tell that we are looking at age 14 is a maximum of four -- excuse me, at the age of 15, looking at a maximum of four tier, three and four tier tournaments.  That is it.  And another 4 ITF--  
 
P SHRIVER:  That is a huge difference.  
 
A. PERSON-WORCESTER:  That is down from 15.  
 

Q.  I guess I just don't see that as a big a deal as you guys.   Why do you distinguish between types of tournaments, for instance, if you do have a legitimate prodigy and let us say she is a 15 year old and she gets a wildcard, why should she be allowed to say play, you know, on a Tour event, but not at a Grand Slam or at a Grand Slam and not a Tour event? 
 
DR. OTIS:  Some of that goes back to what we, as a commission, looked at as the appropriate dose of tennis and some of that dose of tennis and travel, media exposure, the amount of demand on the individual for playing, whether it is a qualifying round or into the main draw; how much emphasis there is on that individual from the outside forces.  
 

Q.  For instance, Delray Beach, for Capriati was much of a zoo as Wimbledon would have been more of a zoo? 
 
A. PERSON-WORCESTER:  For Capriati, but in general, a tier 12 tournament. . .  
 

Q.  I want to know what your rationale for distinguishing what kind of tournaments? 
 
A. PERSON-WORCESTER:  Media at Delray Beach 1990 or whenever Jennifer debuted is very different than media at a tournament where you didn't have a phenom debuting.  
 
P SHRIVER:  You wish it was like that.  
 
A. PERSON-WORCESTER:  We invite every one of you to our Tier 4 events.  
 

Q.  Can she have an agent at 14? 
 
A. PERSON-WORCESTER:  Yes.  
 

Q.  Why allow a 14 year old to play at all?  And they are not allowed to play on the pro Tour. 

Q.  Why allow them to play any Tour? 
 
A. PERSON-WORCESTER:  Because we --  
 
DR. OTIS:  Part of the concern came from what we heard from people in the world of tennis that there needs to be comprehensive linkage between the junior events and the professional Tour; that if we were to not allow some limited exposure with the protections in place, that have to go along with the changes in the rules, that an individual could be out there, phenomenal person at the age of 14 or 15 playing only exhibitions and not under the observation and the structure and the protection that the new WTA Tour rules will effect for them.  
 

Q.  If college athletes are not allowed to have agent contact and any kind of representations contact until they are out of college, why allow a 14 year old if as you say that is one of the pressures that Dr. Otis mentioned why not limit the contact with agents, especially if they are only playing junior and future tournaments, until, say, 18? 
 
A. PERSON-WORCESTER:  Well, again, we would like to think that certifying agents and having more to do with the relationship between agent and player and limiting the play which will limit the pressure from not just agents but from parents or those who surround the player, will make a difference, but we didn't feel it was appropriate and I don't even know if this is a legal issue as well, but we didn't feel it was appropriate to mandate that a player could not have an agent.  
 

Q.  They can of endorsement deals and patches? 
 
A. PERSON-WORCESTER:  Yeah, they are going to be a lot-- they are a lot less likely to have an endorsement deal and a patch if they are playing at a $25,000 tournament in Michigan.  
 

Q.  Play as many exhibitions as you'd-- 
 
A. PERSON-WORCESTER:  Maximum number of events that we are referring to will include exhibitions.  That is the first time we have ever included exhibitions in our rules.  
 

Q.  You will have the legal counsel saying that actually you have the right to prevent a 14 year old from playing a one night exhibition in Hong Kong for money if she so chooses? 
 
A. PERSON-WORCESTER:  Yes,  because she wants to earn her livelihood on the WTA Tour.  
 

Q.  I mean, that is. . . 
 
A. PERSON-WORCESTER:  If a lawyer is saying it is okay, does not mean you are not going to be challenged.  
 

Q.  You think you can do that? 
 
A. PERSON-WORCESTER:  That is the way we are proceeding.  
 

Q.  WTA banning if they play at exhibitions outside of this rule --   If someone went and played an exhibition against the rule; then you are saying you would ban them from WTA events; you would sanction them in some way and they would not be allowed to begin to compete on the WTA Tour until they abide by these age eligibility rules: Not just the number of tournaments and the level of tournaments and the exhibitions but also at attendant factors orientation and minimum education requirements.  You don't think you will get sued?  I mean you are making decisions that you consulted with the Williams family and the Hingis family presumably, but you are making decisions that are going to affect children you don't even know; children that are 8, 9 years old right now? 
 
DR. OTIS:  I can't answer what the legal opinion.  We certainly do hope that the type of support system and the information that gets out is not that there is the same old same owe.  I think it is significant difference we do intend and hope that this will be a legacy for those out there hitting balls 6 hours a day at age 8 and 9; that they will know that there should be a gradual phase-in approach; that they need to have medical exams and some psychological support systems in place before they approach this.  In terms of whether or not the commission in its broad strokes recommendations looked at whether we would be legally challenged, that was not our primary focus.  We came up with recommendations that we felt were the best interest of the young girl.  
 
P. SHRIVER:  As far as the players and what is easy for the players and this goes back to people like Tracey and myself counting our development on the Tour in the early years, the phase-in approach is a much easier way than say, you know, if suddenly at 17 or at 18 or at 20 at 22, whatever, you suddenly open the flood gates and say there you go.  It is a much easier thing to slowly break into the system.  
 

Q.  Any apprehension about the WTA taking over functions of educational and socialization and things that are normally have absolutely nothing to do with a person profession? 
 
A. PERSON-WORCESTER:  I think we have been long been remiss in not doing so.  
 

Q.  Members of this committee-- mostly numbers are from the United States; if you had more people on your council that also from the other part of Europe, do you think they would come up with the same conclusion that you are coming now?  The school system is completely different.  And also the percentage that you have now by the age of 20 are more from this side of the world or the other side of the world.  Have you kept that in consideration because all the comments we are hearing is only what is happening up here with American players, American problem, but haven't seen any other problem on the other side of the world? 
 
DR. OTIS:  Members of our commission -- we did have about half of the commission from outside of the U.S., and we had representation from the ITF medical commission; from an individual from Australia as well as Germany and Europe, so we felt that they were quite strong and quite forceful in representing the European and the southern hemisphere point of view and in recognizing international nature of the game.  We did not breakdown our players by country of origin though however.  
 

Q.  Quite different from Czechoslovakia and Russia, they don't have a school system like yours and this is their career and if they use a legal side of it, perhaps their law is different than what you interpret? 
 
DR. OTIS:  That may have to be adapted. We did hear from coaches and parents from that part of the world and got some input from them about the educational requirements.  
 

Q.  Jennifer Capriati, her situation sparked this whole thing.  Did she testify? 
 
DR. OTIS:  Commission was formed before any events happened with Jennifer Capriati, and I think Anne can verify that the commission was set in motion at the U.S. Open last year, so. . .  
 

Q.  Did she testify? 
 
DR. OTIS:  She was invited to testify, but we did not get testimony from her or her family.  
 

Q.  Hingis, now she is 14; she is going to play 3-4 tournaments this year.  What happens to her next year? 
 
A. PERSON-WORCESTER:  I believe she turns 14 in September.  Between September of 94 and September of 95 she is allowed to play 12 tournaments; plus the championships, if she qualifies.  And then she would be able the next 12 months, so it is not based on a calendar year; it is based on birthday to birthday next twelve months she will be allowed to play 15, plus the championships, if she qualifies.  
 

Q.  Anyway of talking her out of that to make it all look good because here you have got Hingis is going to defy all you are trying to do? 
 
A. PERSON-WORCESTER:  If we started this process a yearly earlier, we could have, but your unfortunately we didn't get started until last year but we are glad that we did and are very proud of all the time and effort and I just want to publicly thank the commission members for their efforts and their time, completely volunteered their time, and expertise and we believe this is one of the most important initiatives that the Women's Tour has ever taken and I am sure you will all want to talk to us at a later date, but thank you for coming.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT