U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 2002
Larry Nelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







LARRY NELSON:  I think finishing 7th, I don't know that that's going to make a difference in the tournament. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
LARRY NELSON:  Yeah, last two rounds I played that one three over and I played 15, four over this week.  So, those two holes.  Take away those two holes and I should have finished 10-under.

Q.  (Inaudible.)
LARRY NELSON:  Yeah, that's right.  That's right. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
LARRY NELSON:  There's big problems for me.  It's been a big problem for me all year.  The guys who are the best putters are going to have an advantage no matter where we play.  So this golf course -- I don't think putting was as big an issue this year as it was last year.  I think you really have to hit the ball better this year.

Q.  (Inaudible.)
LARRY NELSON:  That's what I said, you have to hit the ball better this year than last year.  So, even if you don't putt well, if you hit the ball well this year, you've got enough short holes you can make a lot of birdies on.

Q.  A strong round for you today, 4-under?
LARRY NELSON:  It was good.  I played really well today.  I putted better, only had one 3-putt today, so I played the par-5s, even par, which you don't really want to do.  And had one 3-putt.  I played really solid, could have been better, I think.

Q.  What was the difference, just locking in on what you needed to do?
LARRY NELSON:  Just played better.  I hit the ball fairly good all week, just played horribly the first three days.  And today I played better.  I limited my 3-putts to one instead of 4.

Q.  17, a challenging hole?
LARRY NELSON:  It is.  15 got me all four days.  I bogeyed it four days in a row. 

Q.  What was the other hole you said you struggled on?
LARRY NELSON:  9 and 15.

Q.  What was it about those holes that got you?
LARRY NELSON:  I hit a bad drive.  You hit in the fairway bunkers and if you hit it next to the lip you have no choice.  I hit hooks off the tee there and 15, I 3-putted twice.  So, if you hit it in the fairway bunkers -- 17, I played 3-under, so go figure.

Q.  Overall the golf course, do you think the Tour has found a new home here?
LARRY NELSON:  I think it's a good golf course.  I think the pin placements are a little bit on the strong side.  There were some pin placements that were on sides of hills and over mounds.  If you try to make the golf course difficult, that's what you do.  But it was borderline, really.

Q.  Talk a little bit about the general pin placement. 
LARRY NELSON:  They were just borderline.  Just borderline unfair.  Not unfair, just borderline, borderline, I guess.




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT