UBS WARBURG CUP
November 16, 2001
Larry Nelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LARRY NELSON:  Yeah, I think we kind of both teams really hit some great shots, good shots.  A lot of times it was at the same time.  We really halved a lot of holes, and Curtis and I hit a couple of bad shots and got 2-down after the turn.  And then Sam and Ian hit two bad shots on 16  -- well, actually, 16 and 17, we were fortunate there and actually got the match even.  Then going into 18, we just managed par and that was kind of indicative of the way the whole day was. 

Q.  Are you surprised at how much this turned in the international team's favor late in the day; why do you think that happened? 

LARRY NELSON:  I don't know.  We were looking up on the board.  It looked like there was a lot of red up there early, like you say.  Yeah, I don't know that any part of the golf course favors anybody here.  I think it's one of the golf courses that by the time you get to 18, if you are fortunate enough to get to 18, you are worn out.  This golf course is hard enough if there was no wind, and then you throw in a 15-mile-an-hour wind that kind of is confusing and the wind is blowing a different direction every day; it has made the holes play just a little bit -- and it's not enough of a change to make you think that it's totally opposite.  It's just enough change to confuse you. I don't know what happened.  I know we were the opposite, we were down going into the last three holes and actually getting a halve out of it.  When you have four players playing, I guess anything can happen.  I guess that's what happened today. 

Q.  Can you tell us something about the spirit in which the game was played? 

LARRY NELSON:  Well, I played in three Ryder Cup matches and in the beginning, the Ryder Cup matches were  -- I think you could say in the spirit of golf, that's how they were played.  I think it was beginning to change in 1979 when I played.  It became more of a competition than kind of a nice golf match between Europe and the United States.  I think today  -- today was very pleasant.  We had a good time with Sam and Ian.  It was very relaxed, even though we both wanted to win, we both wanted to play well, both teams wanted to play well.  But just like on the last hole, we gave Ian about a two-and-a-half-foot putt, and that's kind of the way the match was the rest of the day.  We were not out for blood or anything like that.  If that would have been good in your match; so (then) we felt like it was good in ours. 

Q.  Again, talking about the spirit, do you think it's good that both the next Ryder Cup captains are here at this match to see what this could be, to maybe take it back to the guys that they are going to have on their teams for next year? 

LARRY NELSON:  I think it's good that they are here, but I think both Curtis and Sam have a real good  -- both of them are very competitive, No. 1.  Both of them love this game and love what this game has meant to a lot of people.  Just the game  -- I guess the game itself, and how it relates to life in general.  I think going into the Ryder Cup matches, you don't have a control  -- you don't have control over your individual players as much as how they respond to individual shots, but I think you do have and can have control over the attitudes of the games themselves.  I think Curtis and Sam, I think both of them will keep that in mind when it goes back to Europe, I really do.  Sam, I think, will  -- I think he will be good for the European Ryder Cup team in that regard, and I think Curtis will be good for ours. 

Q.  Do you know if you guys are going to meet tonight or compare notes?  What happens after you have a tough day like this in a team event? 

LARRY NELSON:  Well, tonight was a night that was a possibility to have a team meeting.   It was held for that reason.  I haven't heard anything yet.  No news is good news as far as I'm concerned.  There's nothing  -- I mean, everybody wants to win.  It's not  -- I don't think we need any motivation.  I don't know what's going to happen.  Maybe you need to ask Mr.  Player back there. 

Q.  What would you say at a meeting tonight? 

LARRY NELSON:  "Go get' em, Boys." 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT