IR SENIOR TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 2, 2000
Larry Nelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LARRY NELSON:   Yeah, today it was a little bit difficult today, having played three rounds out in California where the ball always backed or it stopped near the hole and it was pretty consistent that way.   I found the greens out here today a little bit inconsistent, as far as some of them would release; some of them would stop.  It was real hard  -- to me it was kind of hard to get the ball close to the hole.  So, I thought playing the par 5's, I finally birdied one.  I played them even par, even though I hit the green on every one of them in two.  So, I was really  -- all in all, I was happy to end up with making three birdies on the last three holes to shoot 3-under. 

LARRY NELSON:   I birdied what hole?

LARRY NELSON:   Five is the par 3.  I hit a 7-iron in the water, or actually in the weeds.  I didn't make a very good swing there.  I hit a 7-iron and that was kind of a wake-up call, I guess, and actually got it up-and-down from the drop area with  -- from about 80-something yards. 

LARRY NELSON:   10, I hit an L-wedge about 20 feet.  Made that for birdie. 

LARRY NELSON:   I hit a 4-iron about five feet. 

LARRY NELSON:   Yeah, I was trying to get too cute.  That hole kind of narrows up and it is a dogleg-left par 5, and I was trying to hit a cute little hook around the bunker.  And I pulled in the hazard or pulled it, didn't hit it very solid and ended up making bogey there; 2-putted for bogey. 

LARRY NELSON:   I guess on the 16th hole, I hit a sand wedge about three feet.  17, I hit a 5-iron about 35 feet.  8and then 18, I 2-putted, hit 5-wood on the green and 2-putted from about 20 feet. 

Q.  Will that finish carry over to tomorrow? 

LARRY NELSON:   Today it kind of a ropy-dope kind of day.  You really just kind of have to see -- see how the golf course is playing.  I mean, I'll know tomorrow what greens are hard, what greens are soft.   I think it will be  -- I think it will get a little bit easier, even if you hit the ball the same tomorrow as I hit today, I should play better because I know a little bit more about the golf course than I did today.  I played at 7:30 yesterday morning when it was 38 degrees.  So it is kind of hard to get an idea.  I think guys who played in the afternoon yesterday probably have a little bit more idea of how the golf course is going to play than the guys who played at 7:30 shotgun.  So, it might have been a little bit of an advantage to play yesterday.

Q.  Is the inconsistency of the greens something that is a factor of the course being so new?

LARRY NELSON:   I think it has to do with the fact that it is new.  I mean, the golf course is  -- it really looks good.  I mean, the greens I think were a little difficult to putt because of the newness of the greens.  They are not as thick as, you know, what they probably will be in a year or so.  And the inconsistency is definitely due to the fact that the greens are new.  The older the golf course gets, the better it will be.  It is a good golf course.  It is a fun golf course to play.  You have to really be careful off the tee.  Definitely be careful of the distance on the greens.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT