FORD SENIOR PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
July 16, 2000
Larry Nelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LARRY NELSON:   Yeah, I just felt so bad with the putter this week, and today was no exception.  Started off on the first three holes and missed it from six feet on 1; made it from 4 feet on 2; and missed it from eight feet on 3 for eagle.  I mean, that was kind of indicative of the way my day was.  So that was kind of my general thoughts.  Tom kind of let us make a tournament out of it by not playing quite as well as he should, but it was exciting last three or four holes.  
 
LARRY NELSON:   I hit 9-iron about three feet, 3 1/2 feet on 2.  3, hit a 5-wood about eight feet and 2-putted for birdie.  I hit a 5-iron to about 15 feet and 1-putted for birdie.  And that was all that I did on that side.   Birdied the 11th hole.  I hit an 8-iron about three feet.  Of course, eagled 17.  I hit 5-wood about 12 feet.  3-putted on 15, the par  3, just from the fringe.  I didn't get it up-and-down there.  
 
Q.  What happened with your putter? 
 
LARRY NELSON:   Just kind of one of those things that I was putting so bad -- and I missed a putt; I made a terrible putt on 11.  Just one of those things where you just kind of squeeze it from both ends; you get aggravated.  Apparently, there was something wrong with the shaft, because it was bent, bowed or whatever.  Not too many people are strong enough to bend that shaft from here, and it just bowed.  I mean, it bowed; it didn't rebound.  So it was one of those non-tempered shafts, apparently.  So I felt like it was a blessing, really, because then I could putt with my 3-iron.  I made a birdie and an eagle with my 3-iron coming in.  If I had not hit a bad chip on 15, I would have shot 3-under with my 3-iron.  
 
Q.  There were so many people in contention and it just looked like and you, Hale and Tom were going to get it done and never did.  Was there something out there, whether it was the weather, the course setup? 
 
LARRY NELSON:   I think it played difficult the last two days.  You could get a gust of wind.  I mean, there were times, like on No.  9, we could not drive.  We could not get it to the bunker because the wind switched and was in our face and by the time the group behind us  -- they were driving almost down to the bottom of the hill.  We were hitting 7-irons and 6-irons in there, and they were the very next group and probably hitting pitching wedges.  So the wind kind of switched and gusted and swirled.  Really hard to pick the right club, and you just had to, you know, make sure that you missed it in the right places, and especially on some of the holes where you can make doubles and triples. 
 
Q.  Could you tell us how long the eagle putt was at 17? 
 
LARRY NELSON:   12 feet.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT