U.S. OPEN  CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 1994
Larry Nelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LES UNGER: Larry, there has been so much talk about the previous
winners. I know you may be looking forward to your match-up on
the first and second round bringing the winners together. Maybe
you want to share some nostalgia with us; talk a little bit about
your game. I know you haven't gone through 18 holes yet, but your
feelings on the course as you have seen it so far.

LARRY NELSON: I decided that coming back up here this year, I
was going to kind of just enjoy it. When you are going through
the championship, you don't get a chance to enjoy it quite as
much. Coming back, you can kind of remember things that happened
and you are not kind of whisked away from the media room after
it is over, so you can just spend four days, five days just kind
of going over what happened 11 years ago. It is really interesting
kind of how every shot that you get comes to mind; especially
the last round, as you walk around.

LES UNGER: I see on video you and your wife were near the scoring
tent, I guess, and Tom Watson had what turned out to be an impossible
chip. Did you have any thought at all on that occasion that he
might drop that in.

LARRY NELSON: I had much more-- when he was standing at the fairway--
he hit a great drive on 18. I don't know if I had ever seen any
balls hit that far up the 18th fairway. And so given where he
was, I thought the possibility would be that would have made birdie
but. . . After he hit it over the green -- it almost hit us --
he hit it over the green to the left, I figured he wouldn't hold
it out on the 18th hole or 17th hole two years in a row, so I
felt my chances were pretty good.

LES UNGER: Your wife didn't look so sure.

LARRY NELSON: Well, when -- actually, when he made that long putt,
she felt that he had tied me because it was such a long putt;
that was the reason why she had that look on her face, but I think
after I saw the putt, it was a little bit, I guess, to the right
of the hole going down and I knew I had won.

Q. Larry, some people have criticized the USGA for giving out
so many exemptions this year. What is your feeling on exemptions
into the Open and could you just give us your take on that?

LARRY NELSON: I don't know who would be criticizing them. I don't
know who they are, but, you know, it is the USGA's event. They
have this thing once a year. I was very happy that they decided
to give me one; being I won here last time that I played here.
I thought that that was okay. I don't know how -- I kind of understood
that they had three exemptions, but as it turned out, I guess,
they had given five or something like that, five exemptions, so
it is not like that they have diluted the field by giving five
exemptions. Most of our tournaments, I think, have eight exemptions
or something like that, either by foreign or by local, by the
sponsor, so I don't think that is unheard of. It is like I told
them if this was next year or if they had been playing at Winged
Foot instead of Oakmont, I would not have a problem of not getting
an exemption.

Q. Were you surprised you got one, I mean, I remember you talking
at Doral and it had yet to come out. Were you surprised?

LARRY NELSON: I never knew exactly what is going to happen. I
mean, it is their decision and kind of whatever decision they
make is final. When you have two or three people making the decision,
sometimes you may or may not agree with it. I was hoping that
I wouldn't have to disagree with their decision. I was very happy,
very honored that they gave me the opportunity to come back to
the golf course where I won on.

Q. After winning here in '83 you played in a lot of rainy conditions
compared to the greens today. Are you rooting for rain?

LARRY NELSON: No, the rain, the scores will go down. Right now
the golf course is playing more difficult than it did any round
in '83. We had, I guess, rain early part of that week. It kind
of softened everything up. Then we had rain through the week.
This golf course will play harder, drier.

Q. Could you elaborate a little more on the course; as it played
when you won here and as it is playing right now?

LARRY NELSON: Well, I only played nine holes yesterday; played
the front nine and I don't remember hitting anything less than
a 5-iron at the number 1. Third hole I hit a 9-iron. During the
tournament I was hitting 6, 5, 4, so the golf course is playing
a lot shorter, but it is also hard to keep it in the fairway.
Even though a drive in '83 would have stayed in the fairway, roll
in the short rough, and to stop it on these greens you need to
hit it out of fairway. It is almost impossible to stop it on these
greens. I don't care who you are if you are in the rough. 

Q. Given that analysis, would you say then that somebody who
is a longer hitter would have an advantage in that he could play
irons a lot off of the tees if it's playing as short as it seems
to be?

LARRY NELSON: I don't think -- usually longer hitters have an
advantage pretty much anywhere they go, but I think on Oakmont-type
course, it kind of makes everything equal, everybody equal. It
doesn't matter if you hit it longer in the rough or shorter in
the rough. It is still almost impossible stopping it on the green.
If they are longer and straighter, they are going to have the
advantage. But if they are just longer, it is not going to make
any difference because it is almost impossible to stop a pitching
wedge out of the rough on the green. It is just as hard on most,
as it is with a 5-iron. There is going to be a lot of bump and
run shots this week, which is going to be a kind of unusual for
the Open course, or for us United States players anyway.

LES UNGER: Thanks for coming. We wish you good luck.

LARRY NELSON: Thank you very much.

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT