NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RAPTORS VS. BUCKS
May 16, 2019
Malcolm Brogdon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Malcolm, it seems like you haven't had much rust to really work through.  Why do you think that is?
MALCOLM BROGDON: I think there's still a little bit of rust.  You know, I think for me, a lot of it's mental, just being mentally prepared to come back, to make shots, I have super high expectations for myself to come back and play at a high level.  So that's what I'm trying to do when I'm on the floor.
Q. When you come back and you get thrown on Kawhi, that's a story, isn't it?
MALCOLM BROGDON: Yeah, being thrown right in the fire.  But I think that's the way you sort of rise to expectations.  But I think it also shows Coach Bud [Mike Budenholzer] has a lot of confidence in me.
Q. In the third quarter yesterday Bled [Eric Bledsoe] really kind of got you guys going by pushing in transition and getting you guys going.  How can you get that aggressive version of Bled more often?
MALCOLM BROGDON: I think getting out in transition, getting stops and then encouraging him to get out, score the ball, shoot the ball and not be hesitant.
Q. How difficult was it for you to be out the first part of the Playoffs and be on that stage last night?
MALCOLM BROGDON: It was very difficult.  Just itching to get back, seeing your team still play well without you but still wanting to help, wanting to contribute.
Q. How would you describe Giannis as a leader?
MALCOLM BROGDON: Giannis is more of a silent leader, more of a Damian Lillard, Kawhi Leonard type of leader.  You sort of follow his example, follow his intensity, follow his -- really his focus on the game is unlike anybody I've played with.  And this year he's gotten even better vocally.  So all around, he's become a great leader.
Q. Before yesterday only George [Hill] had played in the Eastern Conference Finals, now all of you have.  Was anything different, or was it everything you expected it to be?
MALCOLM BROGDON: It was definitely everything I expected it to be as far as being exciting, being in that moment that you want to be a part of.  But you know, the intensity was there, the fans were great.  It was fun.
Q. Did you see what it was like on the plaza outside with all the fans?
MALCOLM BROGDON: A little bit.  I saw a little footage after the game.  I mean, I saw it was a good atmosphere.
Q. When you joined this team, did you ever think this was possible?
MALCOLM BROGDON: After I saw Giannis, and honestly Jabari [Parker] for the first time, I thought this team could be really, really good.  We had future stars.  So I didn't know how high this team could go.
Q. When the team was struggling with threes, you were hitting some threes in the first half.  Can you talk about the green light Coach gives you guys to take threes even though they're not falling?
MALCOLM BROGDON: Yeah, that's one of the biggest changes for us this year is Bud giving us the green light, giving us the confidence to continue to shoot even when you're -- for me I shoot the three against the backboard, air balling, whatever it is, he wants you to continue to shoot until you find your rhythm.
Q. How hard is that for you mentally, the way you probably played basketball most of your life?
MALCOLM BROGDON: You figure it out.  Yeah, he doesn't want you to turn down any shot, so if you have another good one, you've got to take it.
Q. What's the dynamic between you and Giannis?  He said you two like to talk a lot of crap with each other.
MALCOLM BROGDON: I think honestly, me and Giannis come from similar backgrounds, having a lot of brothers.  So we come from families where we talk a lot of mess.  Whenever he sees me in the facility in the morning, we're always going at it.  Everybody knows we're going to start.  But it sort of gets us going for the day, so we have a good relationship.
Q. Did he say anything about your dunk last night?  Did he give you any props?
MALCOLM BROGDON: Not yet.  I haven't really seen him today, so I'm sure it'll be coming tomorrow.
Q. What is it like guarding Kawhi?
MALCOLM BROGDON: Yeah, you know, he's a great athlete, but he's also very patient, very versatile, doesn't really have any weaknesses to his offensive game.  So the key is to make him work to even get a catch, but then once you get a catch, be patient, because he's going to be patient, he's not going to force shots, and then just try to get a contest.  He's so big and he's athletic and he shoots the ball well, especially in the mid range, try to get a contest and push him off his spots.
Q. We saw the love when you came back, but to see Brook finally go off after going 0-for in Game 5, were you guys just cheering him on?
MALCOLM BROGDON: For sure.  Everybody is happy to see Brook do well.  He does so much for us on the defensive end.  We want him to get open shots, we want him to make shots, and when he makes shots, we're unbeatable.  I think that's really how it goes, when he can be the X factor and he can really help us if he's making shots.
Q. Were there stages along your recovery where you weren't sure if this was going to be an option for you, and how did you manage that?
MALCOLM BROGDON: No, there was actually no point.  You know, plantar fasciitis was not an injury that was going to take me out for long.  I knew that.  It was just at what point was I going to be back and I had to be mentally prepared for it.
Q. The way that the series changed against the Celtics from Game 1 to 2, do you believe in momentum?  Do you believe momentum can carry over from game to game in a seven-game series?
MALCOLM BROGDON: Definitely, but I also believe momentum can be stopped in a four-minute stretch when another team comes out and makes shots.  Momentum is definitely something to pay attention to, but it's not something you should try to live by.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT