NBA DRAFT
June 21, 2018
Lonnie Walker IV
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LONNIE WALKER IV: This is God's way.  He's always going to send his message through me.  I feel like being able to play with the Spurs and being coached by someone like Coach Popovich is going to teach me how to be great.  Simple as that.  He knows everything about the game, and he's got something special coming toward San Antonio.
Q. Looked like you were wiping your eyes a little bit when you got picked with your family.  Tell us about the emotions in that moment and the people that helped you get here.
LONNIE WALKER IV: I just had so much blood, sweat and tears into this game.  You see your mom.  You see that beautiful smile after such great accomplishments.  It's amazing.  People don't understand where I come from.  I talked to my mom earlier today.  We don't have to worry about sharing a cheeseburger for dinner.  We don't have to worry about sharing some Doritos for breakfast.  Things of that nature.  I got her back.  Same way she got my back for the past 19 years.
Q. Have you seen a video of the people in Reading, Pennsylvania, going absolutely nuts when the pick was announced?
LONNIE WALKER IV: No, not yet.  I'm excited to see it.
Q. This is your day, but a lot of people slept on you.  How much is it enjoying today versus ready to get after it?
LONNIE WALKER IV: I'm ready to get after it right now.  If they wanted me to work out and practice right now, I'd do it.  I'm ready to compete, and at the end of the day, I want to be the best.  I'm addicted to being the best.  I'm obsessed with being the next great.  It's time to be a dog, and it's just that simple.  I've got something to prove.
Q. When you think Spurs, when you hear the name Spurs, you think of the championships, Popovich.  What do you think you can contribute to this Spurs team that you see from the outside in that it needs?
LONNIE WALKER IV: Whatever they want me to contribute.  It's just that simple.  Like I said with a couple of the ESPN people, if Coach Popovich needs me to dive on the floor strictly, then I'll strictly dive on the floor.  I'm going to do whatever it takes for us to get that win sooner than later, hopefully receive that championship.
Q. Did you have any conversations with San Antonio prior to tonight?
LONNIE WALKER IV: Not prior.  I had an interview in Chicago, but other than that, no.
Q. What did they say in that interview?
LONNIE WALKER IV: Just asking me questions, just about myself.  Talking about life and things of that nature.
Q. I know you talked a ton about your connection to Reading, but it's been over a year now since you played in high school.  Why do you think the connection is still strong and how long do you think those fans will support you the way they do?
LONNIE WALKER IV: It's just based off of motivation.  A lot of those kids, I grew up with a lot of friends who didn't have motivation and went down the wrong path.  So most of these friends and family and a lot of youth.  They're still grasping on, watching me continue to progress as a better man.  That motivates them.  A lot of these kids whenever they hit me up, I'm always positive about them, egging them on to become something special.  Thank God I got to create my message through basketball.
Q. From what I've read about you, you seem to be interested in a lot of things outside of basketball.  Is there anything in particular that you're excited to talk to Coach Pop and your new Spurs teammates about?
LONNIE WALKER IV: Honestly, I haven't thought about it yet.  I truly haven't.  But there's definitely going to be an abundant amount of questions that I'm going to be asking.
Q. You said yesterday this hadn't sunk in.  How does it feel right now?
LONNIE WALKER IV: It's amazing.  It really is.  You think about all that negativity that's been washing down your back for the past 10, 12 years and everything, and it's slowly diminishing as of right now.  It feels so good to be able to take care of my mom and my family.
Q. You said you'd be willing to do whatever Pop and the organization asks of you, but do you have any individual goals for your rookie season that you kind of just have set out for yourself, separate for what you want to accomplish with the Spurs and the organization?
LONNIE WALKER IV: Prove everyone wrong.  Just that simple.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT