PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 2020
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









JOHN DEVER:   Good evening, welcome back to the 2020 PGA Championship here at TPC Harding Park in San Francisco.  We are pleased to be joined by two-time defending champion Brooks Koepka.  Brooks posted a third-round 69.  He is 7-under for the championship, two shots off the lead.
Brooks, kind of held serve today more than anything, but you're still in a really good position going into the last day.  Maybe talk about your play and your outlook.
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, I thought I played a lot better than my score reflected.  Really made one bad swing.  But I left it in a good spot and just hit a poor chip.  The other ones I was in the semi a lot, and I think sometimes in the semi, it can come out without spin or it can come with spin, and if you're going to do that in the wind, it's kind of tough to judge.
Maybe took a little bit too aggressive of lines on those out of the semi, but I just missed them in the worst spot possible, but they were good shots, so I felt like I played really well, putted really well, and the driver I hit great.  It's just sometimes they didn't move with the wind, hit them too good.
Q. How big were those last couple birdies and can you carry some momentum from late today into tomorrow?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, I think so.  16 was nice.  I thought that was probably the toughest putt I had all day just because that wind, you're kind of right there in that open area and the wind is pumping off the right.  It was kind of a weird read where I felt like if you started it on the right edge, it would stay, but if you didn't, it could snap.  So to make that I thought was big and maybe just a little bit of a confidence boost in the putting for the last two holes.  17 I thought I made, and 18 just hit a good shot.
Nice to walk away with a birdie there and carry it over to tomorrow.
Q. There's a few guys around you with one major, you've obviously got more.  Was the second one harder to win?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Well, if you look at the top of the leaderboard, I'd say yes.
Q. What makes that difficult to make the second one?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   I think expectations.  I think -- I guess it does become difficult if you think you've played good enough to win multiple ones.  But you've just got to keep putting yourself there.  I'm doing a good job of that.  But the second one definitely is a little bit tougher, I think, as you can see from the top of the leaderboard.
Q. You've won majors from out front and from having to come back in the final round.  How confident are you in your ability to get this done tomorrow?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   I'm playing good so I like my chances.  Just put the ball in the fairway a few more times and not in the semi.  That would be all right, just not short-side myself.  If I can do that tomorrow and not short-side myself, I'll have a good chance.
Q. Given that you've won a few of these now, four of them, how different is your confidence now being in this position versus a few years ago, I guess the difference between those two?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   It's just a comfort level.  I feel very comfortable around the lead in the big events.
Obviously we don't have fans here, which I think plays a little bit -- makes it a little different when they're hooting and hollering, which it can be fun if they're cheering for you, but if they're against you it's not so much fun.  It's going to feel completely different than any one we've ever played.  I'm looking forward to it tomorrow.  It should be a fun shootout.
Q. Just a quick update on how was the hip today?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   It's good.  It's fine.  I told you it released the knot.
Q. It's a bit of a reversal, last year you had the lead, DJ was the one coming for you.  How do you feel about the reverse situation there?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   I mean, I like my chances.  When I've been in this position before, I've capitalized.  I don't know, he's only won one.  I'm playing good.  I don't know, we'll see.
Q. You mentioned how it was different without fans at the majors.  I'm curious playing ahead of the final group tomorrow how that will be different for you knowing that you won't hear roars around the course?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Well, there's probably about, I don't know, 10 or 12 leaderboards around, so I'll be able to see.  All you've got to do is look up or look to your left or right and you'll see something and figure it out.
Q. You talked about the birdies late; how much of a difference on this course and these conditions in a major is it being two back versus say four back?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   To be honest with you, on this golf course I feel like anywhere from 4-under has a chance.  I think that's realistic.  You can get off to 3-, 4-under very quickly through seven, depending on what they do if they move the tee up, it could be four or five, and then if you play 8 and 9 well and birdie 10, I mean, you've got a realistic chance right there.
It all depends what the weather does tomorrow, but any of those guys at 4-under I think reasonably have a good chance.
JOHN DEVER:   Brooks, thanks so much.  Have a good evening.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT