THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 23, 2018
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Are you going to watch Tiger?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Is it Pay-Per-View?  When is it?
Q. Thanksgiving.
BROOKS KOEPKA: I think that might be -- I think that might be Austin's wedding, Dustin's brother.  I don't know.  If we're at the wedding then probably not.  (Laughter) they might order it, I have no idea, but we'll be there.  We'll be busy with other things.
Q. You drove it pretty nicely today.  Is that especially hard to do considering your other two guys couldn't find the fairway?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, they didn't hit many fairways, what, the first 11 holes.  We were actually laughing about it walking to 1, how poorly they had driven it.  They scored pretty well for the places they were in.
But yeah, I drove it really well and these fairways, there's a couple holes where you just need to hit the fairway to really take advantage of the length with wedges in your hand and really get some birdie opportunities.
But I did a good job of that.  Maybe on the back side or the front side, our back, didn't really do the best of jobs at that.  Even when I did miss the fairway, we've got wedges.  So it wasn't too big of a deal.
Q. Obviously you and Dustin are pretty close and right now he's No. 1 in the world.  With a good position this week, you could overtake him for that.  Have you talked about that?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I've not actually talked to him about it.  I'd love to knock him off, and I'm sure he'd love to keep me where I'm at.  You know, it's fun.  It's actually been really good for the both of us.
Kind of in the gym, obviously working a little bit harder, trying to out-train him and he's trying to out-train me, and on the golf course, I'm trying to out-perform him and he's trying to do the same thing.  It's been good for the both of us, so hopefully it continues for the next however many years.
Q. The next four events -- is that your routine away from the golf course?
BROOKS KOEPKA: A little of both.  Renting a house.  Got the chef there.  Any time -- I've got the same group of guys that are there in the majors, and trying to be more relaxed about it.  I'm a little fresher, which is nice, but try to bring that intensity to the Playoffs.  I mean, there's a lot on my mind.  I can get to world No. 1, win the FedExCup.  It's a big stretch, these next four weeks.
Q. Is it different this year in terms of your approach to them than you've approached it the last couple years?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Not really.  I'm just trying to make sure -- I think maybe over the last two years, my routine is starting to really evolve off the golf course, so I'm trying to bring that and make sure it's here each and every week.
You know, I've played pretty well in a lot of PGA TOUR events.  I think we've had, what, seven second-place finishes in the last two years.  Sometimes it goes your way.  Sometimes it doesn't.  So it's not like I'm not in the position a lot.  It just hasn't gone my way sometimes.
Q. Talk about your confidence coming off the PGA and heading into the FedExCup?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, feel good.  Took last week off.  Didn't hit a ball till Tuesday, but it was nice to be mentally fresh coming in.  I don't need to play every week, every day, to stay fresh.
I'd rather be mentally fresh than be grinding away.  I feel good riding the momentum from St. Louis, which is nice, and any time you come back, the next time you tee it up, you're very focused and ready to win.  It just makes you that more hungry.
Q. What do you think it would be like to play a match for 9 million dollars?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I don't know.  I've never played one, but I'd be happy to do it if anybody wants to play.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT