PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2018
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great round.  Talk about what you were able to do out there today.  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Played really well.  I feel like yesterday I played really well too and sometimes it just, you don't really score very well.  I think the double we had, we hit a 6-iron, great 6-iron, the wind just kind of switched on us and that happens.  But today I drove it beautifully, my wedges distance control is very spot on, and making the putts, making those five, 6-footers that you need to make.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I did.  I liked it.  Came out Monday, Monday afternoon, kind of rested Monday morning.  I came out, hit some balls and played nine and then played nine every day.  I like the way the golf course sets up.  People talk about it turns right-to-left, but you've always got a bunker on the inside of the turn, but I can carry most of them, so it's not really a big deal that the holes turn right-to-left, you can kind of get away with it with my length.   
 Q.  What would it mean to you to cap it off with a win here?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, it would be special.  Any time you can win two Majors in a year, that's pretty unique, pretty special.  And especially where I started the season.  Playing missing the Masters and only being able to play three this year is quite disappointing, but trying to make the most of it.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Records are meant to be broken, I guess.  Kiz has probably got a good chance right now, doesn't he.  Oh, maybe not.  Well, yeah, I didn't know.  I just was trying to make the thing and I really thought I made it.  My caddie said something, Rickie said something walking off on 18.  I didn't even think of it.  I've been so in the zone you don't know where you are or where you're at.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
BROOKS KOEPKA: More attention to detail.  More mentally focused, more every shot really, really means something.  You drop a shot or two, it's, you really put yourself back.  There's a lot more focus that I have in the Majors, the preparation, I mean everyone on my team even says I act a little different, the way I approach it.  It's very down to a routine this week and other weeks sometimes, not saying I vary from the routine, but it's much more disciplined.  Eating right, going to the gym, it's almost timed perfectly.   
 Q.  Did you call that holed shot on 1?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I said to my caddie on 1, I said this is kind of the shot you make, isn't it?  And it was a perfect yardage, you had a little back stop you could throw it off of in case you did throw it a little far and then it looked like it lipped out, I don't know what it did, if it just burned the edge or what, but, yeah, it was nice.  In these Zoysia fairways they're so nice to hit some wedges off.  You can really control the spin, the flight, and the way these greens are, they're receptive and you can kind of, you can add some spin if you want or take the spin-off, so it's nice.   
 Q.  Are days like this when you're hitting all these fairways, do you wonder like why have I not won more out here?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I'm not thinking about that when I'm out there, I'm just trying to win this week, that the only thing I'm worried about, winning this week and taking that and moving that towards the playoffs.   
 Q.  How have the crowds been this week?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: The fans, there's been quite a few fans this week.  It's a good sporting town, they love their sports.  I don't know how many people are actually here now, but I mean it seems to be growing every day.  Even Wednesday I was talking with my caddie, I think that's the most people we have ever seen on a Wednesday.  So, I mean, and it looks like it's even getting more packed out there.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I have no idea.  Just very, I'm just very in the zone, very disciplined.  It's, we have got a house, it's the same group every time that is in the house and between Jeff, Claude and my agent and my trainer, it's very routine, very disciplined, and sometimes -- it's nice to be eating well too.  I really do think that, it's nice to be fresh when you get home, something's already on the table.  It's nice.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Obviously there's quite a few fans.  It's nice playing with Patrick and Francesco in the pairing.  They're good guys.  Yeah, I was kind of feeding off Francesco because he kind of got off to a hot start.  But it's nice having all these fans out with following that group, you're trying to impress them a little bit.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT