THE 147TH OPEN
July 22, 2018
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What you make of Cameron's game?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, he's a great player.  Obviously, he won this year, like two months ago.  He's got a good game, strikes it well, good putter.  He's got a good future of ahead of him?
Q. Got to make a transition after today?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Just keep playing.  He's doing a good job.  He understands what he's doing.  He flights it well.  His short game seems to be pretty good, too.  He's got all the tools to make it.  It's just about timing sometimes.
Q. And what sort of conditions are out there?
BROOKS KOEPKA: They're fine.  The wind picked up a little in the middle of our round.  It's all going to be based off the wind, how much the wind blows.  Where the pins are, some of them are quite gettable.  It just depends on those first 11 -- 10 holes.  If you can flirt with 1, 2-under, you'll be just fine.  You can definitely stop it and get quite a few balls close to the hole.
Q. Nice to go under par today to get some momentum going?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, it's nice to birdie the last.  Felt like s**t this whole week.  But it happens.  Kind of build on that going into next week.
Q. With Jordan, you guys if you go back to back with U.S. Open and British Open (inaudible), would that be great?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, that would be pretty cool.  I don't know if it's ever been done.  I haven't studied up on that.  It's pretty neat.  Hopefully, we're in for a good finish today.  If Jordan doesn't win, hopefully, someone makes it exciting and actually goes out and wins it.
Q. Brooks, do you think it's Jordan's to win now?  Is that where your money would be?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Not really.  It depends -- I mean, I don't know how many guys are up there.  I didn't really look at the board.  I'm sure anybody within four or five shots can.  You go out and post a good round early, you never know what can happen.
Q. What are you taking from this tournament this year?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Nothing really.  Didn't play very good.  Didn't strike it good.  Never really felt comfortable.  Putted, you know, average.  Nothing really great.  Just kind of one those weeks you've just got to move on and get to the next week.
Q. For next year at Portrush, how excited are you about the tournament being in Ireland?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I've never been to Ireland.  That's one place I've never been.  Looking forward to going there.  I know my caddie is.  Basically hometown.  It will be nice to get over and see some of his family and see some of his friends.
Q. I wonder if you have that time on the Challenge Tour, will you have any time (inaudible).  It's going to be a massively new experience for you.
BROOKS KOEPKA: No, I've never been.  Looking forward to it.  It's going to be fun.  Obviously, it's a year away, so got some work to do.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT