THE 147TH OPEN
July 19, 2018
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. It was quite a wild day, I think.  There was only five holes in which you parred.  Is that right?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, something like that.  Played really well.  Even that five-hole stretch I had, I felt like I played really well.  Sometimes links golf just isn't the most rewarding on good shots.  But I played well.  Obviously, I felt like I played better than a 72, but I'll take it with that.  6-over in five holes.
Q. You had particular trouble with one of the bunkers.  Is that just part of links golf and the challenges it places?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I was on my knees in one of them trying to get it out.  It wasn't that bad of a shot.  I probably should have made sure I got it on the green instead of trying to get too cute with it.  Then it comes back in, and it's in a bad lie.  There's something around the ball, and I can't move.  I've got to just suck it up.  I felt like I didn't even hit the ball.  Whatever it was, it definitely hit the ball instead.  You've just got to move on.  Sometimes you get bad breaks, sometimes you get good ones, and you try to minimize it as much as possible.
Q. Are you proud of how you didn't fall back in the back nine because it could have been tournament over after the first nine holes?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I mean, I'm not one to give up.  I'm not one to get pissed off and feel sorry for myself.  I feel like I played well.  Like I said, I was playing well even during that stretch.  You've just got to keep plugging away, and hopefully some good stuff happens.
Q. And six shots isn't insurmountable, is it?
BROOKS KOEPKA: No.  I was eight back after the U.S. Open.  I'm not really concerned.  It would be nice to have some softer conditions in the morning, maybe no wind.  It will be -- the course will definitely be softer tomorrow, so I'm looking forward to that.
Q. And just how much hope does that give you, the fact that you've been in this position before and you have come back from a long way off?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I could care less, man.  1-over, I don't think is going to kill me.  The scores probably weren't as low as we -- the players kind of anticipated, but 1-over is not the worst.  You don't -- definitely didn't shoot myself out of it, which very easily could have happened.
Q. When's the last time you hit a ball off your knees?
BROOKS KOEPKA: On Tuesday.  I was just practising.  Yeah, I was practising it.
Q. You do practise those things?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, you practise that stuff.  I was in there with Pete Cowen practising off the knees, hitting a few.  I just made a mental error more than anything.
Q. On the second one or the first one?
BROOKS KOEPKA: The first one.  The first one, I should have made sure it was on the green.  The second one, there was a whole bunch of crap behind my ball.  It was a bad lie, and I felt like there was something laying behind it, and I felt like I didn't even hit the ball.  It happens.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT