TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 24, 2018
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I'm here with Brooks Koepka who shot a stellar final round 65.  What was it like for you out there?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: The conditions got a little tougher.  The wind was kind of swirling all over the place in the last couple holes, but played really well.  I felt like today was kind of the first day.  I got everything back.  I actually overslept this morning.  I usually don't set my alarm.  I'm usually up at 5 or 6:00.  And I woke up at 8:20 today.  So I was definitely running behind, but it was nice to catch up on some sleep.   
 Q.  Now that you finally get to celebrate a little bit?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, exactly.  I'm going to go see a couple of my buddies in Boston and hang out there, and he's got a bachelor party.  So I don't know how much rest I'm going to be getting over the next few days, but I'm looking forward to it.   
 Q.  So many guys don't even come to this after the U.S. Open.  You did and played well, but obviously tired.  How do you feel about this week?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I feel good, actually.  It was nice to come out and play an event right after you win.  Last year I took a month off.  I touched a club once and then came out to the British.  So it was nice to have some extra reps going into the British.   
I know next week I probably won't touch the clubs, but, you know, it's a good feeling to be back.  I like this place.  I like this golf course.  It really rewards good play.  I feel like you're on, you can really shoot a low number but if you just hit it a little bit off, this golf course can be very difficult, and that's the beauty of this place.   
 Q.  You didn't have to come here this week.  You could have taken the week off.  But did you sense how appreciative the fans were out there this morning?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, the fans are great.  They're always great at this event.  I feel like, you know, I committed to playing this event, and I said I'd be here, so I'm a man of my word so I'll be here.   
I feel like it was an event we had to add some earlier on this year because we missed so much time.  Looking at the schedule, I can't change it because I've missed so much time.  I never once thought about pulling out.  The only thing I wanted to do was to get home on Monday and come up Wednesday.  That was kind of my only thing, so it was nice to have a little bit of a break there and get back to somewhat refreshed.   
 Q.  Is this it for you until Carnoustie?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I'm shutting it down for a while.  I don't feel like I need to play.  I feel like my game's in a good spot, played really well this week.  Just some stupid mistakes and mental errors.  That's all it was, lack of focus, low energy.  To be honest with you, I'm not surprised.  I did play well though, I putted well, and I'm somewhat pleased.   
 Q.  Do you relish an opportunity to celebrate last week's win now in the coming days?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I got this whole next week off.  I'll be with -- we've got 11 guys that I'm pretty close with, so I'm looking forward to hanging out with them in Boston for a few days and then get back down to West Palm for the night and then we're off for my best friend's bachelor party.  I was really hoping to get some rest, but I don't know how much that will happen.   
 Q.  You know him the best from Florida, Stegmaier?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Who?  Not too much.  I don't play with anybody when I'm home.  I don't even play with Dustin.  When I get a week off, I'm taking a week off.  I might hit balls once or twice while I'm out, pick it up on Saturday and Sunday.  But my best friend --   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, it was fun.  Brett's a good guy.  I think I played with him at the Waste Management, I think, three years ago on Saturday.  I can't remember the Saturday I won are -- I think it was the year after I won.  Obviously, a little friendly rivalry, obviously, going to Florida.   
 Q.  This tournament has had some great fields the last couple years.  Jordan said it might be tough for them in the next couple years with the U.S. Open on the west coast.  What is your feeling about top names coming back here?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I'd like to come back.  I like this golf course.  It really suits me.  I think, obviously, being the week after the U.S. Open it's going to be tough especially on the west coast.  We'll see how guys are feeling.  The schedule is going to be shaken up so much next year where I don't even know what events are what, the order of anything.  But everything's going to be crammed, and you've got to keep playing.   
So I don't know if it will drop off just for the fact that guys are going to be coming back to the east coast anyways, and most guys do live on the east coast.  But how they treat us here and how Travelers runs the event, I don't see much of a drop off.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT