TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 21, 2018
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I'm sure a disappointing finish, but all in all a decent round?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I feel like I played a lot better than the score kind of reflected.  It was nice to get off to a good start.  I'm still kind of going on adrenaline right now, but I'll be honest, I'm dead right now.  I think it showed kind of coming in.  Just exhausted.  Get some rest and kind of clean it up for tomorrow, but still playing good.
Q. Yeah, obviously you're still playing well.  How do you reenergize yourself after something like that?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I'm going to go home, take a nap, just get some rest before I go to the gym.  It's just Monday through Wednesday went very quick, if you can imagine.  It's nice to be back playing.  I was focused on this week getting ready.  But it takes a lot out of you last week.
Q. Kind of picking it up more or less right where you started off.  You came in just a few minutes ago and said you really aren't sure which way is up yet, but you managed a 2-under, good start today.
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I played really well.  I really did.  I just lost a bit of energy there at the end.  I still really don't know where I'm at.  But playing really well, putting good, just a couple bad swings there.  But that just comes from focus and not really paying attention too much.
Q. Tough playing that first -- basically, your practice round is the first round in the tournament, and you didn't do that too often.  So little tough today, running out of gas?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I just ran out of gas.  I'm exhausted mentally.  I'm excited to go home and nap.  I tried to get some rest when I was back home, but we got home at about 4:30, fell asleep by 4:45, and I woke up, Dustin was in my living room at 8:00.  He came over on the boat to say hi.  So it was not as much rest as I would have liked.
But it just feels good to be back out playing.  I'm still playing well, so I'm not too worried about today.
Q. You like this place anyway, don't you?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, it's a great golf course.  I love this tournament.  It's fun.  It's nice to see some birdies and some red numbers this week.
Q. Seems like a lot of people have success on 13, 14, 15, and you did as well.  What makes those holes scorable?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Well, you really can attack the flag on those holes.  You get a wedge into 11.  It feels like you've got a lot of wedges on this golf course, and you can really take advantage of it.  The back nine is obviously a little easier than the front.  The front is a little tougher.  It's got some holes where you're trying to make some pars and get through it.  But the back nine you've got some very good opportunities.
Q. Where's the trophy?
BROOKS KOEPKA: It's at my house.  It's Just chillin'.  I wasn't going to bring it this week.  We've got enough.  I've got to go to Boston next week to hang out with my buddies.  We've got a bachelor party, so been planning that one for a while.
Q. Is it in the wine room?
BROOKS KOEPKA: No, I don't even know where we left it, to be honest with you.  I was trying to sleep so much, I left it, I think, on the kitchen counter.  I don't even know.
Q. Did you considerate all not playing here?
BROOKS KOEPKA: No, no, this was always on the schedule.  I had three months off in the beginning of the season, so this was a place we wanted to come.  I knew I was going to play here.  I committed to coming, so I'm not going to back out.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT