U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 17, 2018
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How does the term two-time U.S. Open champion sound?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: It sounds incredible.  To be honest with you, probably couldn't have dreamed of it in my wildest dreams.  I'm at a loss for words right now, but it's really incredible.  I mean, I couldn't be happier.  We grinded our tail off this week to come back from 7-over and do what we did.  It was pretty special.   
 Q.  The back nine today was some special golf for you because every time you got in a little bit of difficulty, you found your way out of it and made some clutch putts.  Talk about the concentration.  
BROOKS KOEPKA: It was really interesting, I mean, I've always been a really good putter.  We made some clutch par saves but I think the one that really was massive for us was No. 11.  To be honest with you, from where it was, I would have taken double.  Definitely would have taken bogey.  I think that was like making a birdie, maybe even making an eagle it felt like because it could have been a big momentum shift there, and we could have been playing tennis just going back and forth.  To make bogey there was pretty incredible and I think kind of the reason why we won.   
 Q.  Having Dustin playing alongside you, did that sort of add to a motivation?  Because he's right on your tail.  He's trying to catch you.  
BROOKS KOEPKA: You know, I think it was enjoyable playing with him.  We didn't really speak too much.  He was busy grinding his tail off and I was busy grinding mine.  We're extremely close.  I love the guy to death.  It would have been fun to dual it out with him coming down the end, having to make some putts.  It was a fun round.  I did enjoy it.   
 Q.  What is it about U.S. Opens that comes out of you?  In the last two years, you have played some fantastic golf.  
BROOKS KOEPKA: U.S. Open just takes so much discipline.  You have got to be a great putter and just kind of let things roll off your back.  That is something we do pretty well.  We were able to bounce back very well considering whether it be a bogey, a double and just kind of move on.  It's a fun week.  I enjoy the test.  I enjoy being pushed to the limit.  Sometimes you feel like you are about to break mentally, but that's what I enjoy.  I enjoy hard golf courses.  I enjoy playing about the toughest in golf you are ever going to play.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT