U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2018
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Brooks, a couple bogeys, 12 and 13.  Six birdies.  That's a great round of golf.  How do you feel?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I felt like I played really well.  It was unfortunate, just hit a few bad drives.  And if you do that out here, it's going to penalize you pretty bad.
I felt like I was playing solid.  My iron play was pretty good.  Putting -- the putts were going in.  I felt like I hit good putts yesterday.  Nothing went in.  Where today, they were kind of bouncing in.  Obviously, they're a little -- it's poa, so they're going to be a little bouncy.
But it was nice to see some go in, and I think I've got these greens a little more figured out today.
Q. Put yourself in a great position.
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I mean, obviously, you don't want to be that many back.  But it's a U.S. Open, so disaster's always around the corner.  You never know what's going to happen.  You just keep putting the ball in play, hitting greens and try to sneak in a few birdies when you can.
Q. Do you feel like a finish like that, with probably good conditions tomorrow, gives you -- puts you in a place where you have some momentum going forward and a good feel for the course right now where you can make a charge?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah.  I feel like I've got, you know, some momentum on my side.  Obviously, with finishing with, what, six birdies, I played really solid.
I felt like I played really solid yesterday.  You know, there's nobody more confident here than me.  I feel like I'm playing really well.  Just need to continue what we're doing.
Q. You know D.J. as well as anybody.  What will make him hard to catch?
BROOKS KOEPKA: This golf course.  There's not many birdies.  Like I said, there's a disaster around every corner.  I mean, all it takes is one shot in the fescue, and you could be in there for a while.
But, obviously, you need a good round tomorrow just to give yourself a chance.  You know, anything within three shots of the lead on the back nine Sunday, anything can happen.
Q. Thanks, Brooks.
BROOKS KOEPKA: Thanks.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT