U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2018
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Brooks Koepka, 5 over.
Q. Brooks, can you give us some idea of just how difficult the conditions were out there in this wind?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah.  I mean, obviously, it's really tough.  The wind's blowing about as hard as it can.  The pin locations are pretty tough.  Like I said, sometimes you're having to aim outside the fairway.  If the wind's off to the left, you're aiming outside into the left rough.  And if you just pull it and turn it with the wind, you're into the left rough.
So it is difficult without a doubt.  Putting is tough too with the wind and the greens being so slow and not particularly smooth.  Some greens are a little faster than others.  Just a little inconsistent on the greens.
Q. And you were in one of the marquee groups, and your partners just had a miserable day.  For players your caliber, can you describe the level of frustration, and is there a feeling that some of it's out of your hands?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I don't think any of us really got frustrated.  I think everybody was just trying to grind it out.  You know, it's a U.S. Open.  You can shoot, whatever, 5 over today and shoot 1 under tomorrow and be just fine going into the weekend.  So I'm not too concerned.
I mean, it is tough.  I would have liked to have those two three-putts back, and I would have taken that and felt I'd played okay.
Q. Can you talk about how much different it was today versus the first couple days when you played practice rounds?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, it's completely different.  It wasn't blowing nearly this hard.  The greens are a little softer with the rain we've had.  So that did help.  And some of the pin locations were brutal.  You've got a left pin hanging on a slope with left-to-right wind blowing 25.
So it is very difficult to even have a decent look and, you know, with these greens having a little poa, they're not the smoothest either.  So they're not going to roll through it.
Q. Did you have any instances where the ball oscillated?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, we had a lot of movement on 10.  I think everybody kind of had something going back and forth, oscillating a little bit.  The ball was, you know, maybe rolling back a little bit.  But I didn't think it was that big of an issue.
Q. Ray Floyd shot 75 in the first round the year he won.  And so in a way, is it just a battle to not lose it the first day?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, no, absolutely.  Try not to shoot yourself out of it.  I would say that 2 over's pretty good here with the conditions and everything we've got going right now.  I don't know if it's supposed to pick up or not.  I know it was supposed to.  But, you know, it's not easy by any means.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT