PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 4, 2020
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









JOHN DEVER:   Good afternoon, everybody.  Welcome back to the 2020 PGA Championship here at TPC Harding Park in San Francisco.  We are pleased to be joined by two-time defending champion, Brooks Koepka.
Brooks, you're back with us in good form with some history on the line.  Does all this talk of a three-peat, Peter Thomson, etc., do you look at it as a hindrance or helper for you as you go into the championship?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   I don't view it as either one.  I've already dealt with it at the U.S. Open going into Pebble.  I feel like I know how to handle it and I played pretty well there.  I just got beat.  My game feels like it's in really, really good shape right now.  I like the way I'm hitting it, and feels -- putting it really, really well.  Every day is a lot more comfortable.
I'm excited.  This is a big-boy golf course.  Got to hit it straight and put it in the fairway.  It's going to be quite long.  I think it kind of plays into my hands.
Q. What was the best thing you saw in Memphis that you were waiting to see, and what's the importance of bringing momentum into a big event like this?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Just to be in contention I thought was nice.  I hit it well, or a little bit better at 3M, and you know, we went back, we worked on some things over the weekend and it started to click and you could clearly see what was going on.  I wasn't getting on my left side.  Now that I've got -- it was nice to see Pete again, get more work with Claude on what's going on and then Phil now.  I feel great, but I think it was more about getting in contention again and just having those feelings back, which felt good.
Q. I see you're playing with Shane Lowry in the first two rounds of the tournament.  Just wondering what kind of relationship you have with him; you played with him a little bit, I think, during the lockdown, and what do you make of his game generally?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   I like Shane.  He's a funny guy.  He's a character.  I enjoy playing with him.  I played a lot with him at the Floridian during lockdown.  Got to play with him and another buddy, Stephen Grant, maybe six, seven times.  It was fun.  I enjoyed the competition, trying to battle into something for being off for three months.
Shane is a good player.  Drives it really well.  He hits a tight little draw.  Great short game, and he's going to be right there come Sunday.
Q. Given the kind of year you've had with three months of knee injury, three months of pandemic, PGA approaching, I don't want to use the word panic, but was there any kind of impatience in wanting to turn things around, and did your confidence start to take a little bit of a beating?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   I mean, you always want to turn it around.  Even if it's a couple holes, you're trying to look to turn it around.
It gets frustrating.  I felt like I was playing a little better.  Wasn't seeing the results, but piece by piece, it was coming.  So I knew it was eventually going to be there.  But as far as confidence, I got frustrated.  I think anybody would.  Nobody likes playing bad.
But at the same time, I knew it was only a couple swings away.  Once I got the feeling, I'd be off and running, and here we are.
Q. What's the one thing Pete brought to you?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Pete?  Just stay in the ground.  I've done the same four things with Claude for, I don't know how long we've been together, seven years, and Pete's the same thing.  Pete tells me two things.  You know, sometimes it's just a different delivery between Claude and Pete, and all it takes it a little bit of -- we saw some information on one of the body tracks or whatever where it shows your weight, I forget what it was.  It was pretty obvious.
So once I saw that, you know, everything made sense with what Claude was saying and Pete, and it just clicked.
Q. Can you give us your impressions of the rough, and I guess how deep rough needs to be to be significant if you have a short iron or a wedge for an approach?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   It all kind of depends.  The rough out here is pretty thick.  You can get some pretty juicy lies and not advance it very far.  But it all depends.  Is it going to be wet?  I think it will be, especially in the mornings, so it could be quite tough to control your distance, spin, things like that.
But I don't think it's overly bad right now.  Come Sunday, might be different.  Might grow two inches, who knows, an inch.  Anything could make a big difference.  I don't think it's bad, but it's not the worst I've ever seen.
Q. Given the fact that there aren't any galleries these days, there's not going to be any galleries this week, are you going to have to kind of maybe convince yourself that this is a major and a major atmosphere, or does that sort of thing really matter?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   I mean, it's pretty obvious it's a major when you pull in.  Yeah, I don't know how else to answer that.  It's pretty obvious it's a major.  It's a big boy golf course.  Tough place.  Tough setup.  I mean, I know it, so that's all that matters.
Q. When you want to hit driver especially hard, do you have to think of an aggressive thought?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, just hit it hard.  That's the only thought.  I don't think -- my mind goes blank.  I kind of, I guess, blackout a little bit sometimes while we're out there.  I don't think of any swing thoughts.  Don't think of anything.
I don't do that in practice while we're at home but out here, just go out and hit the ball.  Try to -- whatever shape you're trying to hit, just see it and go with it and swing it.
Q. You always said in majors past that you mark these four tournaments on the calendar in terms of peaking for these events.  What's the challenge been like for this year peaking for these events, given the pandemic as well as your knee?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   It's just been a lot of patience.  I had to -- a lot of sitting around and waiting and doing rehab, and just trying to make sure we're ready for this week.  Yeah, I mean obviously things didn't get off to a good start this whole year; basically from Korea till 3M wasn't the start or play I was looking for.
But at the same time, I felt like I was progressing.  So sometimes the results are a little bit slower than what I would like.  I expect so much of myself, almost too much sometimes, and that can be annoying.
But at the same time, you've just got to -- I knew this week was a couple weeks away, so I had no other option other than to find it.
Q. I have two questions.  One is as much of a sports fan as I know you are, do you enjoy -- with regard to the No. 1 ranking, it kind of bouncing around a little bit?  You had it for a stretch; Rory; Jon had it for a few minutes and now J.T. has it.  How much do you enjoy having that in the balance, and do you burn to have it back?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   That's the whole goal.  The goal is to be the best player.  If you're not trying to do that, then I don't know what you're doing.  I'm not out here to just try to compete and have a good time.  I'm out here to win.
You know, winning means being the best and being No. 1, so that's the goal.  And I enjoy it.  I enjoy -- right now, you've got J.T., Jon, Justin, myself, DJ all right there.  So it makes it fun.  It's exciting.  As a fan, I'm sure it's exciting.
Q. As a follow-up, when you come here or any tournament, do you walk into this place feeling like you're the best player on the planet and that you're the guy to beat?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   I mean, I feel very confident in myself.  I don't know -- I think when you start saying it like that, I think you're putting expectations.  I don't put any expectations on myself.  Just go out and go play golf exactly like I know how, and if I do that, then yeah, I probably should win.
Q. You talk about the whole goal of being No. 1; that's the whole idea of being out here.  You held that post longer than anyone last year.  What's the sense of accomplishment in that?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, that's a big accomplishment.  That's the goal every time you set the goals for the year, to be the best player in the world.  I felt like I got unlucky with the knee and then wasn't swinging it right because of my knee.  It happens.
But also at the same time, it can make you a little hungry to go out and prove yourself, and that's where I'm at right now.
Q. You obviously seemed to enjoy majors.  It's been over a year since we've competed in a major.  That's the longest stretch since the 1940s.  What does it mean to be able to compete in a major again?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   It's fun.  I love it.  I love the fact that it's probably the toughest test of golf you're going to play all year with -- setup-wise and then mentally it's exhausting.
I enjoy when it gets tough.  I enjoy when things get complicated.  You can really -- there's always disaster lurking, I think it something I enjoy, where every shot really means something.  Every shot is so important and you can't -- you can't lose focus on one and I think that's something I'm really proud of myself that I can always just hang in there mentally and hit the shot that I need to hit at the right time, and don't let off the gas pedal.
Q. Last year at Bethpage, you said that these were the easiest tournaments to win.  I don't know that you put a number on how many guys you had to beat; if you still feel that way; and how many guys do you have to beat this week?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, I still feel that way.  I think I said it last year.  The way the golf course sets up eliminates pretty much half the guys, and then from there, you know, half of those guys probably won't play well, I think is what I said.  Then from there, I feel like mentally I can beat them, the other half, so you've probably got ten guys.  That's the way I see it.  If I can do what I'm supposed to, then yeah, I should.
I think that's why I've played so well is I break things down very easily.  I think for some reason, people make golf a lot more complicated than it should be.  Worried about where shots go, results, you know, putting more emphasis on this week or the major weeks, when to me, it almost seems the most relaxing week of the year.  I feel like Monday to Wednesday, conserving energy mentally, I've got a good routine, nine holes pretty much every day or less, and I leave the golf course feeling pretty refreshed, and then by Sunday, I'm mentally drained.
I think it's more mentally exhausting where things -- where things will take it out of you mentally before physically with a major.  I think that's one of the strengths of my game.
Q. What's the one thing that you have to do well this week?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Drive the ball well.  If you put the ball in the fairway out here, you're going to do -- there's a lot of long irons into these par 4s, and like today, I think I hit -- played nine holes and hit three long irons in the back nine in the flags and obviously it's a little cooler, a little windy.  But still at the same time in you're in that rough, there's no chance you're hitting 4- or 5-iron into these greens.  You have to drive it well and put it into the fairway.  A lot of right-to-left holes, too, especially on the back.
Q. Just talking about the length and adjusting to the weather, is that something you'll do going on the launch monitor, or is that a feel thing with you and Ricky, getting a sense of the difference in how far the ball is going here?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   No.  I'm not going to be a scientist and go figure it out on TrackMan.  I'll do it out myself.  Me and Ricky have a pretty good idea how far the ball flies in this weather.  Played golf for probably 25 years now, so I know how far it goes when it's a little cold.  From there, it's just slight adjustments.  I feel like we've got it dialed in.
That's kind of why I wanted to play in the morning.  Usually you do the same routine as tomorrow, tee off the same time I tee off on Thursday, and play one late, one early, just to get a feel for how different the course can play, how the ball is flying and things like that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT