THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2018
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How does the wrist feel?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Feels better after a 63.  It was nice to play well.  I've been knocking on the door, last week I felt like I played really well, wasn't really getting much out of it.  It's just sometimes when you're off for four months you come back you need to play a little bit, get some rhythm and it's nice to finally shoot a low one.
Q. How did that putt look when it was rolling to the hole on 18?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I thought I made it.  I hit that putt in practice and it always, you're always trying to die it in and it always seems to break a little bit more than you think and I hit a great putt, I'm not going to lie, I knew it was for the course record, but sometimes you hit a good putt and it doesn't go in.  So it is what it is.
Q. What was the club on 16?
BROOKS KOEPKA: 6-iron.  Hit a little 6-iron in there from about 208.
Q. Was it a good number?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I mean, obviously, yes.  Stupid to say no.  But it was just three quarter 6-iron.  We thought it was perfect.  Yeah, I was aiming 15 feet left and just kind of hit it started out just a little bit left and kind of faded with the wind right on line and to have it one hop in is pretty cool.
Q. Do you have any of those in competition before?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I had one other in competition.  I think it was like an AJGA event when I was younger over in Tampa.  So I guess that makes, what?  Three double eagles now.
Q. At what point do you start thinking, yeah, I would love that course record?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Once you birdie 17 you kind of know you're on pace for it.  I knew a good shot into 18 you could have a good look.  Hit a great shot in there, left the putt you want, but unfortunately couldn't make it.
Q. What's it like to do this in front of your mom today?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, it's pretty cool.  It's nice to do it on Mother's Day is pretty cool, to have her out here watching is neat.  She doesn't get out too much, any time she can it's pretty neat.
Q. You said over there that you were trying to fire at every flag.  How rare is that for you to do on the PGA TOUR?
BROOKS KOEPKA: When you're what, we were about like 20 back it felt like, so, I mean, what are you going to do?  It's like you just stay where you are in 60th place or you start moving up.  Today was the day.  You get a little lucky, felt like I had plenty of opportunities, I really didn't make much.  I 3-putted 2, stuff like that.  But then I mean obviously lucky for that ball to go in on 16, so you get lucky and then you see what happens.
Q. How healthy do you feel?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I feel okay.  I feel yesterday was a bit sore, I feel like I could feel my wrist on the take away, after playing for three weeks straight and then what happened Wednesday and I could feel it, but it felt a lot better today, even going on the range I told my caddie it felt pretty good.  So if it's -- I'm glad to have a week off, kind of make sure everything's going to be right for Colonial.
Q. That's the second 2 on 16 in history of this tournament.  Are you surprised there haven't been more than that?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Making 2's pretty tough I'm not going to lie.  Making 3 on a par-5 is pretty tough.  So I mean, am I surprised?  Not really.
Q. Easiest par-5 out here scoring average.
BROOKS KOEPKA: Well you go play it then if you think it's that easy.  That tee shot, you can, if you put the ball in the rough there you're hoping to make 4.  It kind of depends on if you hit a good tee shot it makes the hole a lot easier, you can hit 7-iron, 6-iron into that green, but I actually, I actually did not hit a very good tee shot, I was trying to hit it down in the crosswalk where we had about a 9-iron in and just hit such a bad tee shot that it actually stayed in the fairway so we got quite lucky.
Q. What was your reaction and exchange with your caddie when that went in?
BROOKS KOEPKA: We were just laughing.  He thought it was funny because I told him I think walking down 12 or something like that I was like, man, we haven't had a tap-in like all week, since we've come back I don't think we have hit one like inside the leather where you can walk up and just tap it in.  And then hit one pretty tight on 14 and then obviously make one on 16.  If you're going to talk about it you might as well do it.
Q. Have you played much with Webb over the last little while?
BROOKS KOEPKA: No.  I've been off for four months, so I really haven't played with anybody.
Q. Have you seen him play, you watched him?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I played practice rounds with him.  I don't think we ever played -- we might have played one in competition with him, but he's a good player, everybody out here is a good player.
Q. Obviously you hate to be off for four months but is there at all a silver lining that you're a little more refreshed and rejuvenated going into this important stretch?
BROOKS KOEPKA: There's nobody more excited to be here than me, I can tell you that.  To get back out it felt like it took forever.  The days were very long during that four month period and to get out, it's refreshing to be outside and just to get started practicing.  I thought that was so much fun and even finally to get back in competition because that's what I miss the most.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT