WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
October 28, 2017
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Long day?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I felt like I didn't make any putts.  I felt like they were good putts but they just didn't go in.  There were five holes that were just a disaster there from 8 to 12.  9 was all right.  But 10, even 10, to put that wedge shot in the bunker was pretty poor, especially when you've got so much room, and then 11, I missed a putt there.  Gave up a lot of shots.   
The start was really good.  The first seven holes I thought was pretty solid and the rest of it, very up-and-down.   
 Q.  Did you consider hitting a shot out of the hazard on the second --  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, the only thing was there was a stick right behind us.  If it hits the tree and comes right down -- but we're like, the pin is in a good spot where I can wedge it.  If I make that putt --   
 Q.  18, right when you hit it, to me it looked like there was a quick look to the right.  Did someone get you camera-wise?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: There was like 50.   
 Q.  So there was a lot of cameras that went off?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah.   
 Q.  What was the second shot in the bunker?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: We just talked about -- 167 and we were trying to hit it about 150.  I hit 8 and just trying to baby it.  Just hit a poor shot.   
 Q.  It was a lot windier today.  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, to be honest with you, on 18, it picked up pretty good but you've got that grandstand there, too, so it kind of blocks the wind a little bit.  If you hit one of those low, piercing shots, it won't ever get above that grandstand.  Then you can see Rosey, he hit it up in the air and he kind of floated.   
It was definitely windier today.  I didn't think it was playing that difficult.  Definitely should be able to shoot 4-under out here, minus a triple and whatever else I had, a lot of bogeys.   
 Q.  You know there's a low score out there.  It's going to be windier I think tomorrow.  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, just play good tomorrow.  Make a few putts.  Get off to a good start again.  I'm getting off to a good start.  It's just kind of the middle stretch where I kind of stalled a little bit.  Just got to correct that.   
 Q.  Was there any particular reason?  There was a bit of a wait on 7.  Was there anything that threw you off your rhythm?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: No, it was fine.  I don't know what was going on.  Obviously somebody was having trouble.  I don't remember who -- Patrick.  I didn't know what was going on.  But no, it was fine.  We were talking about it.  It just freed us up on 8 -- didn't have to wait the whole back nine, though, give you that.   
 Q.  Did you play a cut on 8?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, hit a tail ball -- dove, just a bad tee shot.  Get it anywhere right, you just lay up and easy pin.   
 Q.  What did you do for tomorrow?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Keep doing what I'm doing.  Today, I don't know what happened from 8 on.  It was kind of very disappointing -- very blah.  I didn't really make any putts, like those momentum putts.  I didn't make one of those.  I thought maybe the one on 10 would have been big.  Thought 10, build some momentum there.  You make 10, probably make a lot and kind of feeds off from there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT