WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
October 27, 2017
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Solid day, and scoring conditions were a little tougher.  Were you watching the scoreboard with what Dustin was doing and thinking you need to get into a position?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Not really.  I was just doing what I needed to do.  To be honest with you, I don't really care what Dustin is doing.  If I play good, I should be fine.  I just needed to make a few more putts.  Missed a couple short ones.  You know, got to fix that for the weekend.   
 Q.  Were the conditions a little bit tougher today?  The scores seemed to be a little higher than yesterday?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I thought the pin locations were a bit tougher today.  Maybe the wind kind of picked up at times.  But I mean, I still thought it was very gettable.  I didn't think it was too much harder than yesterday.   
 Q.  Being in the final group tomorrow, does it change your mentality at all, or are you still taking that same approach that you had the last two days?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: No, still doing the same thing.  Obviously it's working, so why change it.   
 Q.  68, happy with that?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I felt like I played really good.  I didn't make as many putts as yesterday.  It's kind of hard to follow that.  But putted really well.  A couple short ones I would like to have back but that was just green reading error, and that's it.   
 Q.  Different conditions to yesterday.  How were they playing?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: It was a little tougher.  Maybe the wind was kind of picking up a little bit, random gusts.  I thought the pin locations were a bit tougher if anything.  I still thought it was very gettable.  I still thought you could throw a good number.   
 Q.  Playing with Dustin tomorrow, looking forward to that?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, it will be fun.  Nice to play with him.  We've talked about it.  We actually talked about it on Saturday when we played at home.  I don't think we've ever actually been in contention together.  It will be fun and it will be interesting, and hopefully fun tomorrow.   
 Q.  Any change of game plan for tomorrow?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Just keep doing what we're doing.  I mean, obviously it's working.  I don't think I need to change anything.  It's going pretty well.  Maybe make a few more putts than I did today.  But the greens got a little bumpy at the end.  They have a lot of play on them.  That's what happens when you're the last group out.   
 Q.  Your caddie, Caddie of the Year; was he in form today?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, he did all right.  He almost forgot the back on 10 today.  Other than that, he was so excited to walk off the green, but he did really good.  I'm pumped for him and really happy for him.  It's a good honour.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT