WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
October 27, 2017
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CHUAH CHOO CHIANG: Thanks for joining us this afternoon.  Nice bogey-free 68 to be one shot behind Dustin Johnson.  How pleasing was that round.
BROOKS KOEPKA: I felt like I played pretty well.  I felt like I drove it really well.  That's what you've got to do out here to hit fairways.  I felt like we were hitting quite a bit.
Then, you know, a couple of the putts, we missed some short ones, but to be honest with you, I felt like I hit them where I wanted to.  I think I misread maybe two of them, especially the one at the last.  It kind of changed at the last second over the ball.  But you know, that's going to happen over the course of 72 holes.  But feel like I'm playing well and just need to keep hitting fairways out here.
Q. Two early birdies on a day where pins were tucked in some corners, how difficult was it for to you stay patient out there, especially knowing what Dustin was going out on the golf course?
BROOKS KOEPKA: To be honest with you, I didn't care what Dustin is doing.  I'm kind of focused on what I've got to do.  Yeah, it did get kind of boring out there for awhile, 13 straight pars.  I felt like I hit some good putts that didn't go in.
I had some good opportunities -- too, and just didn't convert them.  I wasn't really focused on Dustin.  If I take care of business and keep doing what I'm doing, I should be right up at the top, which I am.  I just need to play good this weekend.
Q. When did you come out here?
BROOKS KOEPKA: When did I get in?  Sunday.
Q. Did you guys play Saturday?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, we did.
Q. Dustin thinks that might be the first time all year you guys played golf together?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, it was.  Not in a tournament.  I think it's the first time, ever, we've actually played golf.  He thinks we played a few days at the Floridian, maybe a couple holes with Claude or something like that.  But no, that's the first time we've ever actually teed it up.
Q. He also says he won, but he always says that?
BROOKS KOEPKA: No, that is not true, I can promise you.  I can promise you that.
Q. Coming off The Presidents Cup, you did take some time off after that.  Are you pleasantly surprised, I guess, how sharp you are off the tee?
BROOKS KOEPKA: No, I mean, Saturday when we played was the first time I touched a club from Presidents Cup.  I went out there with him and AJ and a couple other buddies, and I mean, I drove it great that day, too.
So I'm not surprised.  I mean, I feel good.  I have no problem taking three weeks off and coming right back and picking it up.  I did it from the U.S. Open to the British Open, and, I mean, played fine at the British.
It's just one of those things where I felt like I needed some time off a little bit.  It's been kind of a long year.  But I'm playing really good.  So I'm just building off everything.  The way I see it, the Presidents Cup still counts as a win in my eyes.  I played pretty solid.  You just build confidence off that.
Q. Obviously you're out with Dustin tomorrow in the final group, how much more difficult is it going to be to try to shut out what he's doing and not get involved in sort of a match-play situation?
BROOKS KOEPKA: It's Saturday.  I wouldn't worry about it.  I think the only time you're really in a match-play situation is kind of coming down the back nine on Sunday.
I think that's probably one thing that I've learned over the last few years is you can't win it on Saturday.  I think kind of before the U.S. Open, I was really pushing.  I've said it; I felt like I underachieved a little bit, not winning as much, and putting myself in good chances and then just not converting them.  A lot of them were because of Saturday.  I feel like I've always played good Sunday coming down the stretch, and it's Saturday that kind of let's me down a little bit.
I had a talk with Pete Cowen and he said -- he just broke it down.  Just told me how it is.  You know, got in my ear a little bit and that's kind of one thing; I've just stayed patient a little bit more on Saturday and just kind of wait for Sunday because it is a four-day event.
Q. Two weeks ago, your brother, Chase, played in China and he expressed to the reporters that he had a three-year plan to advance to the majors and hopefully one day he can play in the majors and compete with you, against you in the majors.  Can you talk a little bit about the relationship and your connection with your brother, and have you met your brother in China on this trip?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Well, first off, no, we didn't meet.  Because I texted him right, maybe three days before I took off, and he said that he was in a different part.  And I didn't know if he was going to come to Shanghai for a layover on Monday and then fly out and be with us coming in Monday afternoon.  I thought it would be kind of cool to meet up, but he wasn't going to be in Shanghai.  I think he had a direct flight to Dubai or something like that.
Yeah, I think it would be cool.  To be honest with you, I don't talk to him about his goals.  I think the fact that I kind of did that in three years; I mean, it's very doable.  You know, he's got a good game.  He's very close to winning.  He's lost once in a playoff and looks like he's in good shape this week.
He's a good little player.  I think, you know, he's still got to grow a little bit and understand the game.  I think that comes with time and understanding professional golf, because it is a little bit different, and focusing on what he needs to do.  But he's doing the right things off the golf course; I'll give him that.  He is a hard worker.
Q. In professional golf, it's kind of unique and weird in a way, because you have to take every opportunity to go against everybody, so everybody is your enemy, but on the other hand, when you participate on the TOUR, you have to be friends and you have to know friends.  So now, being able to go into the leading group with one of your good friends, Dustin Johnson, tomorrow, and thinking about if you have to win, you might have to break his heart, so in between friendship and the game, how would you comment on that?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I have no problem breaking Dustin's heart.  I can promise you that.  I'm sure he'd say the same thing if he was sitting up here.  (Laughter).
We both have a lot of fun off the golf course, but you know, when it comes to golf, I think we both want to kick each other's butts.  There's no mercy out there.  I don't think anybody wants to go home a loser.  When they tee it up, everybody wants to win when they come.  When we both show up, I think we're both expecting to win.
I hope it comes down to Sunday because there's not been a tournament where we've actually competed against each other.  Hopefully I can get the better of him and I'm sure he's thinking the same thing.
Q. Do you remember playing with him at Pinehurst?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I think it was Saturday I think we played together.  I remember he hit a left-handed shot on one of the holes, but I don't remember much about that.  I don't think he played the best, if I remember.  I played all right.  I mean, I think that might have been the first time we actually really played together out on TOUR.
But I mean, to be honest with you, I'm looking forward to it.  I'm sure he is, too.  It's always going to be a fun group.  Even our caddies are both pretty close, Rickie and AJ.  I hang out with AJ quite a bit, too.
It's fun and I'm really looking forward to it, that's all I can say.  I'm sure he is.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT