THE PRESIDENTS CUP
September 29, 2017
Dustin Johnson
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Two birdies in the last two holes to close it out, a big win for the U.S. and another point on the board.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It was huge.  We had a tough match today.  Golf course, I didn't think the golf course was playing -- I thought it was playing difficult today.  The wind picked up a little bit.  Pins were tucked.   
But we both played pretty well, especially on the back nine.  We both were in pretty much every hole, and had a lot of good looks.   
 Q.  You guys play so many practice rounds together and you're in the gym every morning.  It's a comfortable pairing for you.  Did you enjoy playing out there with one of your best friends on TOUR?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, it was awesome.  We kind of wanted a little redemption on last year since we lost.  DJ played really well today.  Wish I could help him a little bit more but played really solid coming down the stretch there.   
 Q.  Great finish.  DJ, felt like one of those matches where once a putt went, it was going to be the turning point and you finally got that one to drop ton 15.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Even on 14, I thought I hit a great putt.  It just burned the edge.  Then on 15, I finally got one to roll right in the middle and made a nice one here on 16, too.  Me and Brooks both played pretty solid, especially the back nine.  I felt like we were both in every hole.  We both had good looks at birdies and we had a lot of putts win holes.   
 Q.  You knew this is a match you had to be aggressive in; that wind started coming from everywhere.  How did you adjust to the match today?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, the pin locations I thought were pretty tough.  It blows out here; it's going to be tough.  We did a good job.  We finally settled in on the back nine and gave us two looks pretty much every hole.  That's what you've got to do.   
 Q.  To be the last match and see the momentum shifting towards the end, did that pull you along and were you aware of what was going on in front of you?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: You know, I've got enough to worry about with me and Brooks.  I mean, I really wasn't paying attention.  I knew the guys were doing just fine.   
We're trying to handle our match.  The other guys are playing good.  Kind of just let them do their thing.  But you know, we're worried about our match and getting a win for us.   
 Q.  What was the key for you guys to get the advantage on this back side?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: We started on 10, made birdie there and got the momentum going from there.  Felt like we gave ourselves two good looks every hole.  DJ hit some good putts coming down the stretch, and once he saw one going in, it was nice.   
 Q.  You have similar games and you've trained together; you're friends.  How much were you looking forward to play today?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Obviously I was looking forward to it.  We're really close friends and we do play a lot together, train together.  We knew we've both been working hard and we're both playing well.  We knew we were going to come out here and play good.  So it was a lot of fun, especially after Ryder Cup last year.  Neither one of us played very good, so we wanted some redemption and get us a win.   
I felt like the golf course was playing tough, but both of us had looks on pretty much every hole.  I made a nice putt on 12 to win the hole from about seven or eight feet.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT