BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 17, 2017
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  It's been a steady state of improvement for this week.  71, 70, 69 and then you really upped it today.  What was so good?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: To be honest, I've been sick the last few days, haven't felt well.  Today was the first day I actually had some energy, felt like I could play golf.   
 Q.  I mean the scoring was fantastic out there.  We've seen the golf course yesterday really firmed up.  
 How was it today because I mean looked like great control of the spin here.  How firm and how was the course playing?   
BROOKS KOEPKA: It couldn't have been a better number for us.  Big 52.  We thought if we did it it would spin.  Last few days you couldn't have a shot even that close.  There's spin unless you hit something full and hard.   
 Q.  You say it's playing easier today than it was yesterday?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I think so.  I think it is.  The golf course is set-up a little easier.  You hit your wedges close you're going to have a lot of wedges.  You'll get some putts going and actually really tear up that front-9.  The back-9 would be an interesting finish.  15 moved up.   
 Q.  Certainly will.  Lot on the line at this moment.  Moving day.  
 Of course, a performance like this in the last day puts you back up again, probably within striking distance going in there next week with a chance to do it.  However, every shot counts.   
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah.  Honestly I told everyone yesterday if we get in trouble we're going to have to bank it off the backboard.   
The thing was we actually caught such a big jumper from our second shot that you literally have nowhere to land it.  You can't land it past the hole and spin.  Good chance it actually did work.   
 Q.  See, folks at home now see that's why they're so good these guys because they got these things to it.  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Of course.   
 Q.  Great playing and good luck next week at the Tour Championship.  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Thanks.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT