PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2017
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about your round today a little bit.  What was it like out there?
BROOKS KOEPKA: The golf course is gettable, I think, if you play pretty well.  I don't know, I've struggled all week, so it's not really anything I've felt too comfortable.  I didn't feel comfortable over the putter all week.  Didn't drive the ball that well.  Didn't hit any iron shots that week.  Never quite really settled in.  I don't know what that was.  Maybe trying to play a little too swing mechanical, stuff like that.
I think the golf course you can definitely shoot a number today.
Q. Your overall view of Charlotte as a host.  It seems like they did it right.
BROOKS KOEPKA: They did a good job.  I'd never played this golf course.  This week was fun.  I'm excited.  Hopefully get back here in the future.  We've had a good time here.  I've enjoyed it.
Q. Any parts of your game you need to work on in particular?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Not really.  I mean, everything feels pretty good.  This week is just kind of the first time in months where nothing has really felt that great.  I don't think it's anything.  I think it's just cough it up to a random week.
Q. Is it one of those things where it was a mind thing?  Golf is such a mind sport.  You have to be in that mind frame?
BROOKS KOEPKA: If you make a couple putts early, the hole opens up.  There was something over the hole all week.  Never quite felt comfortable.  Never really saw a read.  Never saw struggled with speed, too.  Just a mixture of everything.  I don't know what it was.  Just kind of a combo of everything.  It's hard to make putts if you don't get the right read and speed.  So it is what it is.
Q. Guys on the Golf Channel were saying that your game doesn't have a weakness.  You bounce back after bad holes.  How do you assess that looking at the bigger picture of your game?
BROOKS KOEPKA: That's what you are supposed to do any time you make a mistake is find a way to bounce back, find a -- I don't get too pissed off.  I don't get too happy.  Whatever happens happens.  It's not the end of my life.  If I make a double or make a bogey or whatever it is, I don't really -- I shouldn't say I don't care.  I do care.  I'm not going to let it affect the rest of the round.
Q. Knowing what it feels like to win, is it that much harder not to win at a major now that you have that experience?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Not really.  It's hard enough to win one of these things.  You have got to put yourself in position.  We never did that.  Today you are fighting, hoping to put a good round up.  Shoot 6, 7-under and hang around and hope.  That's not going to happen.  They are going to shoot, probably 9, 10-under.  Maybe 8 or 9 will probably be the winning score.
Q. Are you going to stick around?
BROOKS KOEPKA: No.  We're leaving.  We've got a flight.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT