PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2017
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Great position --
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, felt like I put the ball in the fairway, which I usually don't do, so that was good.  I was hitting it out of the center of the face, controlling shots off the tee.  I think they said I hit ten fairways, which is really impressive for me.  You know, just a couple short ones, started off on the first hole and one on the par 3,4.
But other than that, these greens are so fast.  It's so delicate.  You're just kind of worried about running it by sometimes.
Q. Is that what's keeping the scores down overall?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I think so.  The greens, if they get about a foot faster, they are kind of unplayable with the pin placements I think.  I mean, these slopes are just getting, you know, bigger and bigger with the speed of the greens and the grain.  If you miss it just by a couple feet from the flag, you can hit a great shot in there and then wind up 30 yards away.
Q. What was the turning point that things started to click for you?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I don't know, I like the front nine.  The finish on the front nine is a little easier.  So I just kind of felt like I cruised it all day.  Wasn't really anything that impressive.  I was just trying -- when you get on greens this speed, you just try to leave yourself an uphill putt every hole.  I didn't exactly do that, so it's kind of hard to really feel like you can get aggressive with a putt.  You sometimes just kind of lagging it down there and if it goes in, great.  And if not, you've got a tap-in.  That's kind of how it goes.
On 7, it just happened to go in.  But it is what it is.
Q. Is there any part of you that was frustrated for not cashing in so many chances early on, or more accepting --
BROOKS KOEPKA: It's a major.  Doesn't really matter.  I think you're going to, it's going to test your patience one way or another, so I tried to move on with everything.  You know, one shot at a time, as cliché as that is, it's so easy to get frustrated out here with a mediocre shot that ends up in a special spot; are you feel like you have a good chance that never really amounts to anything.  That's just a major.  You've got to stay patient.  You can't make doubles out here.  That's the big thing.  Make sure the worst score you make is a bogey and give yourself a couple good chances on the easier holes.
Q. That chip-in, did that feel like a bonus?  Did you think you could make that?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I was trying to hole that, so that was good.  I did what I was trying to do.  But to be honest with you, it was a straightforward pitch, straight up the hill, pretty straight.  We've been working on that forever.  So it wasn't -- I think Rickie, my caddie, even said, "Chip it in, get it going," right before I did it.  So that was a nice little momentum shift, I guess could you say.
Q. Another good round in a major.  What do you think it is about your game that helps you perform so consistently in these events?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I just stay patient.  Like I said, try not to make a double-bogey.  If you get out of position, get back in position and give yourself a good chance.  Never feel like you're out of the hole.  You know, you don't want to leave yourself with too many testy chips, too many testy putts, which is very easy out here.  You can definitely do that pretty quick.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT