U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
June 18, 2017
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You started today trying to find the leaders and ended the day chasing a record.  Starting the day, what was your game plan?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Just keep doing what I was doing.  I felt like I was playing really good.  Obviously the wind picked up and I felt like that played right in my hand.  Good ball-striker, good putter.  And I felt confident all week.  So to feel as confident as I did on a Sunday of a major and coming down the stretch was pretty neat.   
 Q.  When you reached 14, you got your birdie.  Meanwhile back at 13, Harman bogeyed.  Did you have any idea that went on?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I didn't know -- I saw the leaderboard before I hit that putt.  I saw I could have a two shot lead if I made that.  I did see that.  But I don't know if it had come up that he'd bogeyed yet.  It might have been just if he parred it.  But I was just trying to make that putt, give myself as big a cushion as I could.   
 Q.  Did that birdie give you any additional confidence, any surge of adrenaline that said, hey, I can come home and I can take this championship?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I mean to be honest with you, it really was the putt -- the par save on 13.  I think that built some confidence.  It was one of those things where I need to do -- on 10 I just hit a poor putt, not enough speed.  And 11 the same thing.  Just trying to be aggressive and hit the back of the hole.  When that happened it did give me a lot of confidence.  So I think that was kind of the changing point of the round for me.   
 Q.  You were virtually impeccable in greens in regulation throughout this championship.  Overall what was the key to getting to the top and winning?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: You've got to hit fairways out here, obviously.  And when you're in the fairway, the fairway, only having such a short club in, you've got to hit the green.  You've got to hit it pretty close.  So I felt pretty confident.  And I felt confident with putter, so that helps.   
 Q.  16 under ties the U.S. Open record.  Give me your thoughts on that accomplishment, just a birdie shy of being alone at the top of the record book?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I really should have made that up and down on 18.  (Laughter.)  That's awesome.  I think it's really cool.  It hasn't sunk in, obviously, yet, and probably won't for a few days.   
That's probably one of the coolest things I've ever experienced and to do it on Father's Day it's pretty neat.  I didn't exactly get my dad a card, so this works (laughter.)   
 Q.  Was he out here?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: No, this is probably the first major that anyone in my family missed.  I don't know if that's saying anything.   
 Q.  I expect they'll get over it.  
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT