U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
June 17, 2017
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Nice way to finish out there.  How are you feeling?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I feel like I'm playing -- I felt like today was pretty solid.  It wasn't -- I could do a little better on the front nine.  I don't know what it is.  That start today wasn't very good, to be honest.  And I was driving the ball kind of wayward there in the first four holes, five holes.  But you've got to put the ball in the fairway to score and I did that on the back nine.   
 Q.  Are you going with the same strategy tomorrow?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I would say so, just because 11-under is pretty good.  I think that strategy is pretty good.  It's worked so far so I think I'll stick with it.   
 Q.  Given the way the back nine sets up, especially the last six holes, expecting a lot more fireworks than a usual U.S. Open on a Sunday afternoon?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, there's definitely some opportunity.  I think that back nine you can really shoot a low one.  Today with the tee being up on, I think it was, par 5, 14, we were able to hit it over that bunker, which is key on that hole.  We didn't hit it down the slope.   
The back nine really suits my eye, I don't know why.  I think there's a lot of tee shots that are left-to-right.  And that might be why, I just hit it hard down the left-hand side and let it come back.  I love this golf course.  I think it's great.   
 Q.  There hasn't been wind yet, but tomorrow looks like there should be.  Does that mean anything to you?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Just dry the golf course out a little bit as the day goes on.  But other than that, it could be so interesting with the winds.  They've got so many tee box options.  You could play almost 50 yards up from where we've been playing, and move them 50 yards back.  It will be interesting to see what they do with the tee boxes.   
 Q.  You've had good results here, and being in position on Sunday, your thoughts about that?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Playing good.  I feel really confident, driving the ball well, putting it well.  I feel probably a lot more comfortable than I have probably in the past.  I would say between putting myself in contention before, I don't know, I feel like U.S. Open we do pretty well.  In the PGA we seem to be up there every year.   
But the Ryder Cup helps.  It's kind of simple.  I think that's probably the most amount of pressure I've ever played in.  When you look at that and just kind of build off the experiences out there.   
 Q.  So many guys looking for their first major at the top of the leaderboard like this, what do you think?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: There's so many good, young players, that I think this is going to be kind of not the trend, but you're going to see a lot of -- Justin Thomas, Rickie Fowler, myself, hopefully you're going to see us up there a lot in the next few years.   
 Q.  There are so many potential first-time major winners (inaudible) since the Tiger era.  
BROOKS KOEPKA: It was pretty cool to watch Tiger win, I'm not going to lie.  Growing up, that's kind of why I'm playing.  Yeah, it will be interesting over the next few years, I'm looking forward to it.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I probably won't be as nervous on the tee box, I can tell you that.  I was worried in Hazeltine if the ball was going to fall off the tee, if I was actually going to be able to put it on if it fell off.  It's one of those things, it's just confidence.  The more and more opportunities you get, you put yourself in that position, you feel a lot more comfortable.   
 Q.  Justin got a low score today.  How far back is too far back?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Obviously if it's going to be 25, blowing 25, I think it will be tough.  I would say you've got to be near the top.  It would be hard to make a real run with 25 mile an hour winds.  But with that being said, he did shoot 9-under today.   
 Q.  Can you comment on Justin's play today?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I'm happy for him.  That's pretty neat to do it in the U.S. Open.  He's been playing well.  So I'm not surprised.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT