WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 2, 2017
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I know you love coming back here, that's for sure, for your first win.  Tell me about this morning, how cold it was.
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, we went out yesterday in the morning, and it's about 5% off, so you're trying to guess.  The greens are a little bit firm.  Especially in the morning, it's amazing that first little skip.  And especially in the fairways, too.  We hit one at 11 that went in the water.  Everybody thought it was in the middle of the fairway, and it just took a hard bounce.
But, you know, the golf course can firm up.  In the afternoon it's really gettable.
Q. Just before you made the turn, the temperatures went up big time and all of a sudden it's back to the golf course you know?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, it makes it a lot easier.  Clubs started going the right distance.  Balls are actually landing on the green and spinning.  It's nice in the afternoon.  Like I said, it's really gettable.
Q. These greens look better than I have ever seen them.  Is that the case?
BROOKS KOEPKA: They are so pure.  Anything inside 10 feet is a must make.  You have to get it started online.  Didn't do that there in the last couple of holes.  These greens are unbelievable.  The course is in great shape.  It's always fun to come back.
Q. Talk about today.  Six birdies, couple of bogeys.  I know you kicked yourself with the bogey at the par-5, but all in all, are you pleased?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, it's all right.  It's a decent opening round.  Got it going on the back 9.  Kind of lost a little bit of momentum, especially with bogeying the par-5.  It's disappointing when you come in with the 5-iron.
You can't worry, missed it in the hazard left.  When you're sitting on a hard pin, it's not the easiest up-and-down.  Three-putt that.  Overall, like I said, it's all right.
Q. Talk about why you play this course so well.  Obviously you have won it here.  Does it set up for you?  I know you hit it really high.  Why do you play it so well?
BROOKS KOEPKA: These greens are so good.  We have putted really well here.  You see the lines.  Just some courses really suit your eye, especially off the tee.  Even on the greens, reading the putts, you get to know some things where certain putts are straighter than they may appear.
You know, the more you play it, the more familiar you get with it.  It's just a great place for me to come.
Q. Talk about how much fun it is to be here.  You played with Larry Fitzgerald yesterday, and your dad got to play with Michael Phelps.  How much fun is this week?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, it's a fun week.  It's cool.  It's something I look forward to every year.  It's special and obviously getting to play with Fitz, last year and this year.  Getting to know him over the year, it's been fun.  Everybody loves him out here.  It's cool.
Q. He played good yesterday.  He might have taken a little money from you?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I tell you what, we had a little long-drive competition on 9 yesterday.  Got him by a couple.  He can move the ball.  Good putter, and he hits his long irons really well.
Q. Big man.
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, he's a little bit bigger than me, so he can definitely move the ball.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT