SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
November 5, 2016
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How did you steady things on the 18th to at least close it out?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I mean, you've got a wedge in your hand.  You kind of expect to hit it close, especially with a little back board behind it.  Yeah, it was really up and down.  Ball-striking was pretty poor, and for some reason I couldn't get the speed of the greens.  They looked like they were flying.  They looked like they were crusting out there.  Speed was just bad.  But overall, I guess 1-under isn't the worst.
Q. All things considered, are you glad to be in the spot that you're in considering that your assessment of your play today was a little off pace?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, for as bad as we played today, I was kind of happy to be one off the lead.  But just kind of struggled everywhere.  Just a pull draw and everything on 17, and that was kind of the story line to my day.
Q. It could have been a lot worse; you got off to a slow start, but you fought back nicely.  What were you struggling with out there today?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Everything.  I feel like speed was a bit off, putting never really quite got comfortable, but I mean, we were pull drawing everything.  Just on 17 there, I just felt like the club face was shut coming down, and I felt like I was fighting it all day.  Not my best performance, but I guess one off the lead isn't too bad for how bad we played.
Q. You had some questions early in the round about your driver.  You thought it might have been cracked.  What alerted you to that?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Well, when you looked down at it, you could see about three cracks in the top of the face, so we'll just replace it and get going tomorrow.
Q. Tomorrow what do you need to do better?
BROOKS KOEPKA: We're about to go to the range right now, just going to fix this pull draw and make sure the speed of these putts are where they need to be.  I don't know if it was just a little bit of being tentative, because the greens are getting very firm and a little crusty, and then I guess that's what it was.  They looked a lot faster than they are.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT