SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
November 4, 2016
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Brooks, obviously wanted that one to drop on the last and get in with a 67.  What do you make of your second round?
BROOKS KOEPKA: It was kind of sloppy at points, but I felt like I played pretty well.  The putter was hot, still made a few putts, but just got to clean a few things up.
Q. Tee to green, what's been the strength of your game through two rounds?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Obviously the putter.  I just feel like I've made a bunch of putts.  I don't know how many putts I made today, but I made quite a bit, and I just need to put the ball in the fairway.  It seemed like we were a foot off on a couple holes, and out here you can't be in the rough.  Just tighten up the driver and see where we get.
Q. Obviously you're going to be near the top of the leaderboard going into the weekend.  What's going to be the plan of attack for the third round?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Just keep doing what we're doing.  Keep stroking it well.  The ball seems to be finding the hole once we get it on the green, so just get it on the green as quickly as possible.
Q. Not the way you wanted to finish, but still a strong round.  What do you take away from today?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I played okay.  It wasn't anything special, but I still rolled the putter really well, which I'm very pleased with, but just clean up a few mistakes, and it should be fine.
Q. Going into the weekend, what's your game plan?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Just keep doing what we're doing, be aggressive on a few holes, and then there's a couple where you just need to lay back and make sure you hit the fairway and give yourself a good chance, but you've got eat up these par-5s.  That's a big thing out here, and luckily we were able to do that today.
Q. What about your game do you find plays to this golf course?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Well, it obviously helps it along.  These par-5s we're coming in with mid irons and short irons, and just keep doing that.  But this place you've got to put it in the fairway, and we've done that pretty well over the last two days, so that's helped, but I need to do it this weekend.
Q. Will you be able to put some more pressure on the old man up front with that distance game?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I hope so.  Just keep doing what we're doing, I should be fine.  I'm not really too concerned with anybody else, just keep plugging along and see where it takes us.
Q. Tomorrow is probably the key to make sure you're there for Sunday?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I need a good round tomorrow.  I just need to -- like I said, if you put it in the fairway here you're going to give yourself some chances, and I just need to keep doing that, but like I said, you've just got to eat up these par-5s, and with our length, we should be able to do that.
Q. We talked yesterday about how big your goals are.  You felt you didn't quite reach them last year, but how much has the Ryder Cup sort of given you a boost going into this new season?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, it was a big boost.  I mean, it's confidence.  Any time you're playing 24 of the best -- 23 other players in the world, it's going to give you confidence, and especially when you guys win like we did.  It's special, but it just breeds confidence, that's all it does.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT