SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
November 3, 2016
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Brooks, boy, the putter was really hot for you out there, especially those back-to-back 21-footers you made?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah.  I thought I rolled the field really well today.  We did some work this whole week.  We really were focusing on making sure, got my playing coach out here, making sure the speed was right.  Last week I struggled with the speed of the greens, but the greens are beautiful out here, so it's easy to make putts.
Q. Talk about that par save you made there on No. 6.  I thought you got a nice break hitting the tree, sounds weird to say that, but it came back towards the fairway for you.
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, it was fine.  Obviously it was a terrible shot coming in, but made a nice little, what, 20-footer for par, which is nice.  It was one of those kind of momentum things kind of help you finish off the round right.
Q. You shoot 9-under you probably expect to be at the top of the leaderboard.  You're near there, but how about Rod Pampling's round today?  I don't know if you saw, 11-under par here.
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I didn't see it because I wasn't playing with him.  But obviously the leaderboard shows who's there, shot 10, 11-under.  But it's good playing.  Anytime you're under 6, 7 or more than that out here, it's a good round.
Q. And speaking of your round again, 62.  Do you think about going to Round 2 or when you shoot that great, do you just keep things as they are?
BROOKS KOEPKA: No.  Just keep doing what I'm doing.  Go grab lunch and do a little bit of work, but my iron that we pulled about 30 yards, just kind of work on stuff like that, make sure that doesn't creep in anymore.  Just keep doing what we're doing because it seems to be working.
Q. Off to a fast start at 9-under par, what were the keys today?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I obviously made a lot of putts today.  I feel like I was striking the ball well.  Speed was a lot better than it was last week.  So grinded hard early on in the week making sure the putting was right, and it showed today.
Q. You got here earlier in the week.  How big was that to get to Vegas on a Sunday, Monday, be able to see the course two days in advance?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah.  Took Monday off, just kind of relax, take it easy, and then Tuesday got back to work, so put in a good session, about five or six hours on the range, and it showed today, which I'm pretty pleased with.  Just need to clean up a few things and get it going for the weekend.
Q. Nice par saves on 6 and 15.  How crucial was that to keep the momentum going in the round?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, the one on 6 was kind of big.  It felt like I needed to make that to kind of push.  Obviously when you got somebody that's shooting 11-under, you gotta really -- you can't make any bogeys.  So it was good all around.  But kind of got a good break there to make a par, so I'm happy with it.
Q. You've kind of been a guy to set a lot of goals in the past.  Starting this season right now going forward, can you list me off a few?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Obviously to win, win multiple times and then win a major.  I mean that's the goal.  I think that's been the goal for the last year.  Obviously last year I didn't really achieve it.  I felt like I underachieved, and that was kind of the big thing.  Kind of had to sit down with myself on the flight from China and reassess things and put some things in the right spot, change some things, and I feel like I'm starting to do that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT