BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 11, 2016
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What a nice final round, even a birdie on the final hole.  Tell me about your round and the golf course.  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Obviously the golf course is a little bit wet.  You can really shoot a number today, I think.  The pins are accessible.  Today was, I don't know, it just kind of clicked on the last seven holes or whatever it was.  But other than that it was pretty unimpressive week.   
 Q.  I'm unimpressive week except for the 67 in the final round good way to finish.  With the wind we had yesterday the golf course didn't dry out much, the greens are still receptive, the fairways are still playing wide?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, the fairways are still playing wide, the greens are receptive, there's a couple back pins that you need to get it over some slopes and stuff, some of the back pins are tough, but, no, I think it's really gettable today.   
 Q.  Any holes that we should look for as the leaders come through?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: 18.  Start with that.  That's kind of a tough hole.  So I would start there.   
 Q.  What flipped on that back nine?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I have no idea why.  I wish I could tell you.  I have no idea.   
 Q.  Was there any part of it that felt like you needed to close out strong to make it to East Lake?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, we were trying.  I'm not going to give up.  I don't know why it just clicked on all of a sudden, but it was nice to play well.  If I make it to Atlanta, that's great, that would be a bonus.  But if not, then I get an extra week to prepare for Ryder Cup.   
 Q.  How much will you be paying attention in the next couple hours?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Probably not at all.  It is what it is.  I did what I could.  Wherever you fall, you fall.   
 Q.  How frustrating have these last three weeks kind of been for you, just the play not as good as probably what you wanted?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: It's been really frustrating.  I don't know what was going on.  We hit some balls in a bad wind direction, kind of got some bad habits going and it took about a week to kind of correct that.  And then just the putter's been really cooled, too.  It's kind of been all around, it's not one specific club, it's just everything has been really mediocre.  You can't do that out here.   
 Q.  The ankle?  What's the status of that?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: It's fine.   
 Q.  A hundred percent?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT