PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 31, 2016
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Another solid effort for you; how difficult was it out there with the mud balls and trying to adjust to the greens that are maybe a little bit slower?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: The green speeds were a little bit tough for me.  I felt like I could have made probably three or four more putts if I just would have got it to the hole.  We didn't have one mud ball    actually, I lied.  We had one on 17, but it wasn't that bad.  So we got away with that and not hitting in the rough is big.  If we did hit in the rough, we seemed to catch a little downgrain lie, which is nice, and we never really had too much trouble except for probably the one on 18, which is probably the toughest one all week.   
 Q.  You made a good birdie there, and you're going to be able to play the ball up in the final round, I don't know if you know that yet but that might help you out a little bit.  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, that will be nice, but just hit the fairways and go from there.  The back pins are kind of tough with the soft greens and spinning it, because we've got almost wedge into a lot of these holes, nothing more than really 9 iron if we're hitting driver.  Just got to be able to control that spin.   
 Q.  How is the ankle holding up?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: 66 was nice, makes it feel good.  We had rest yesterday, so that's good.   
 Q.  Preferred lies, how low can people go?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Depends how many fairways you hit.  I don't know what the score is going to be when everything is said and done.  I don't know, the way it's going, probably 12, I would say.  You fire 12 and see where you're at.  I mean, hopefully it's 15 or 16 and hopefully that's how it goes.   
It all depends.  If there's a lot of back pins, it's kind of tough to make birdies because you can't really bounce it back in there, and the ball is spinning.  A lot of the greens are back to front.  So that makes it tough.   
 Q.  Has the ankle improved as the week has gone on?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I guess.  Maybe a little bit.  Doing rehab every day, iced it.  The tape job helps and obviously the brace helps.   
Walking in the mud doesn't really help it.  It's pretty sore but other than that, I'll be all right.   
 Q.  You talk about being explosive with your swing.  Do you feel like you could do that with the tape and ice?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I've got 18 holes to win a major.  I'm pretty sure I can explode off it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT