PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 31, 2016
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BROOKS KOEPKA: It's nice.  Obviously hasn't really set in.  36 holes today was a bit rough, rough on the ankle.  It's kind of numb right now be, to be honest.
Starting the week on Tuesday where we were thinking maybe not even playing, finished fifth or whatever we're going to finish.  Pretty happy with it.
Q. You've made it pretty clear that the Ryder Cup is the No. 1 priority.  Did you get a chance to talk with Davis this week?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I spoke with him earlier this week just for a little bit.  I know we're going to have a little sit down and talk about the ankle, how things are going.  Hopefully play good this week and next week and make it real official.
Q. How is it progressing?
BROOKS KOEPKA: It hurts right now.  It's numb, dude.  I don't even feel my foot.  The outside of it is pretty numb.
Q. You have been assured that you won't do further damage?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I can't do further damage to it.  It's just how sore and how much is it going to hurt.  It's not -- you can't do any harm to it.  It is what it is.  I mean, we're probably two weeks ahead of schedule, week and a half probably.  To come out here on Saturday and hit balls -- back home, Saturday hit balls, to come here and Top-5 it, I'll take that.
Q. 36 holes on it, probably not ideal.  Do you feel any concern about being able to play next week?
BROOKS KOEPKA: We've got to wait.  Obviously I'll sit there and go do rehab later tonight.  Rest it up.  I'm taking Monday off.  I'm not even thinking about going to the golf course on Monday.  We'll see.  We'll assess it and figure out how bad it hurts.
Q. What do you have to do each day to get it close to being able to play?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Here or back home?
Q. Both.
BROOKS KOEPKA: We went from just moving my foot with no bands, trying to make the alphabet, letters of the alphabet, trying to do things like that.  Then we worked up pressure on it to actually using a band, trying to walk out -- walk out with bands on it.  Just trying to balance on one foot.  It's stupid, but that's what it is.
Q. What letter just really hurt to make?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I have no idea.  They all did it at first.  It was so swollen.
Q. On Tuesday, did you think you had any chance?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Tuesday we believed probably I think 70/30 on not playing.  I mean, to actually play 36 today was pretty impressive.  My physio, Mike Wall, did a good job, taped it up, can't move the way it hurts.  Everything in my leg is so tight too.  When he was working on me, trying to make sure didn't go outside, everything was tight.  It is what it is.
Q. Do you feel like this performances distinguishes you as a potential pick for Ryder Cup?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I won't need a pick.
Q. Did you think about not playing Travelers?
BROOKS KOEPKA: We've got to assess where we are tonight tomorrow.  I've got to see where I'm at.  The plan was to play it.  We're already here so we're going to hang around and see how it is, see how it feels.  We probably won't know until right before.
Q. How much did playing 36 today -- playing 18, do you feel like today would have been different for you with this bum ankle?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I mean, yeah, it was sore.  I would have liked to have played four days of 18.  That would have been nice.  Wouldn't have been as sore.  Hard to get off my right side that whole back nine, I felt like I was hanging back on it, couldn't really push off it.  Who knows.  It is what it is.  Top-5, really almost withdrawn on Tuesday.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT