PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 28, 2016
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BROOKS KOEPKA: I feel like I played pretty solid golf.  I drove the ball from the fairway a lot and was able to put myself in good spots.  Any time you can do that, you are going to do well.   
Just need to clean up a few things.  Don't want to say rust, but a little bit more touch control on the greens and a couple more putts fall and just simple stuff like that.   
 Q.  You mentioned earlier in the week that (no microphone).  What was the first test on the course today?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Walking 18 holes.  I haven't walked 18 holes -- I know that sounds stupid, but being taped up and I've got a brace on it.  It gets -- I think by the fourth hole, it started to -- I could feel it.   
 Q.  How does it feel now?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I feel fine.  Shot 2-under, so that's fine.  I'll take that.   
 Q.  Is it one of those things where there's really not too much (no microphone)?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: No, I can't do any more damage to it.  What's done was done.  We're ahead of schedule on the rehab.  I worked my tail off in those off weeks.  It wasn't fun, but just to get back for here.  Everything is clicking.   
 Q.  Had there not be a major this week, would you have teed it up?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: No, I wouldn't have played this week if it weren't a major.   
 Q.  (No microphone)?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: It's more mentally a grind than anything.  It's not fun to miss a major.  Obviously I didn't watch it, but to be in there for 9:00 to 4:00 every day pretty much, just doing basic stuff.  Trying to do band work to get your foot out and bring it back.  Just the little things, trying to walk without a limp for a little awhile was a big thing, because you don't want to screw up your other knee or back or anything like that.  You have got to focus on the little things.  Just go back to basics.   
 Q.  How much is the Ryder Cup on your mind right now?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I mean, watching yourself go from third on the points list to nine while you are sitting at home not doing anything isn't fun.   
This week is important.  I've got to play well.  Obviously it's a major, but at the same time to make that Ryder Cup team, I don't want to be a pick.  Just play my way on the team and see how it goes.   
 Q.  (No microphone)?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: My ankle?   
 Q.  (No microphone)?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Any time you are shifting weight off it, you can feel it a little bit.  It's mainly the follow through when your leg kicks up and around.  You've got to push off it and then it's got to spin.  The spin part has been what what's hard.  We taped it in a way where it can only -- it's taped.  That's kind of the issue.  It's really irritating.   
 Q.  How much prep did you do this week in terms of number of holes played?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I played four holes on Monday, nine holes Tuesday and nine yesterday.  So this is the first time I've played 18 since U.S. Open on Sunday.  So felt good to finally play 18 holes.  But it did feel nice to play well.  I'm striking it really well.  I feel like my game hasn't left.  Even with those three weeks of playing or whatever, three of four weeks, my game hasn't left.  I feel like I'm picking up right where I left off.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT