FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 12, 2016
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Brooks, last night you spoke, you said you just needed to make more putts.  Wow, 6 birdies today and some aggressive putting.  You must have found something last night on the green.  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Just went back to basics.  We did the drills we always do and just sharpen it up, you know.  It was a little disappointing but make a couple bogies there midway through the round.  It is what it is.   
We didn't play that great the first three days and we kind of found something going into next week so that's kind of all you're looking for.   
 Q.  I was going to ask you, obviously we still have some golf to go.  We don't know where you're going to stand.  Still some tough holes out there.  
 Regardless of the outcome, are you feeling better now about heading into Oakmont?   
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah.  I mean obviously today was nice.  I finally struck the ball well.  I felt like I putted it really well and, you know, it's nice to leave here going into Oakmont with that but I mean the first three days were just rust.  That's all it was.   
But yeah, it does feel good to get going to Oakmont and playing like this.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I got off to a nice day.  I felt I was playing really well the first 7 holes.  Unfortunately a bad shot on 8 and led to a bogey and bogey on 12.   
Today was the first day I finally felt like I really struck the ball how I should and I made a few more putts.  So it's good to go in into Oakmont with that good feeling leaving here.   
 Q.  You talked yesterday about trying to find that fix with your putter.  Seems like you found it.  
 What clicked today?   
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah.  Just went back to drills last night, did some drills that my putting coach, we worked on for the last two years, just basics.  That's all it is.  My golf swing is pretty easy.  Just fundamentals and the same with putting.  You can master those, then I'll be just fine.   
 Q.  The way you played the last couple of weeks in Dallas and now here, how much confidence does that give you going into Oakmont?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Feels good.  My game is peaking.  I said that for a month now, I felt I was really, really close right around The Players and obviously the next week played pretty well at Byron Nelson now here I played well.   
So, you know, it's obviously disappointing the first few days I didn't play the way I wanted to.  I'm happy with the result, especially going into Oakmont.  You want to be playing well.   
 Q.  Coming off a long week like this, will you pace yourself next week when you get to Oakmont as far as practice rounds?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I'm not going to play 18 everyday.  I'll be tired out by Thursday.  You play that golf course 18 holes three days in a row you'll be washed out.  I'll take it easy, relax tomorrow, take it easy and try to maybe play one 18, one 9.   
 Q.  Well, you gave it a good go but Berger seems to be good right now keeping it together.  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I played better today.  I felt like I was striking the ball pretty well today and obviously holed a few more putts.  That's good going into next week.  Game is peaking right now.   
I fell like I'm really close and the way I struck the ball today and, yesterday, struck it okay.  So, I feel like it's coming around.  It's peaking for next week.   
 Q.  Anything can happen, obviously, but at what point in the back-9 were you thinking was there a number I got to hit to try and stay in this thing?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Trying to make as many birdies as we can.  Made a few mistakes coming down.  Hit it in the water on 12.  The ball jumped.  We didn't think it was even going to get back to the pin.  The 3-putt at 16.  Obviously it's disappointing.  You can't put any pressure on him.   
It is what it is.  I played well today.  The first few days weren't my best but, you know, walk out of here with a Top-3, probably, it's nice.   
 Q.  Your thoughts going into next week and how you're feeling.  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I feel good.  The way I hit it today was nice.  It's how I should hit it and obviously to see a few putts.  If you can see a few putts go in you're going to build momentum and hopefully build on that for next week.   
 Q.  From the Orlando area, being in Florida, the PGA based there, the tragedy.  Any thoughts on that?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: It's sad.  It's unbelievably sad that somebody would do that.  My girlfriend lives in Orlando and it's scary, it really is.  I feel for the families and the people involved.  It really is sad.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT