AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 22, 2016
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You played well all week.  I guess you thought that drive in the playoff was going to carry the water for you.
BROOKS KOEPKA: I drew it back into the wind.  I was hoping it might hit the rocks.  The swing yesterday -- I didn't have it the last 36.  You can't win a golf tournament when you're swinging it and have no idea where it's going.  It is what it is.
Q. I know it doesn't seem like it now but this is a great experience for you.
BROOKS KOEPKA: I guess so, yeah.  You always got to learn, learn when you're out here.  But yeah, I mean it is disappointing but, you know, I just got to figure out what's going on with the swing, what's causing that.
Q. It was a battle the whole weekend for you.  Looks like you were trying to get this thing done.
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah.  I really didn't have much the last 36 holes.  I had no idea where the ball was going and you can't play out here when you're hitting it in the rough.  It was a lot of tough things.  You kind of play defensively.  That's not really what you want to.
Q. As disappointing as the outcome was for you you got to take some solace that you didn't have your A game or B game and you're in the final pairing and lost in the playoff.
BROOKS KOEPKA: Got to take some positives out of it.  It is what it is.  It is disappointing.
Q. All told, obviously you had to think you had a sub-70 round here to win and yet you were still in the mix here without your best.
What was the feeling throughout today?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Same as yesterday.  I felt like I did terrible.  The putter wasn't as hot today.  I had no idea where the ball was going.  You're out here in the rough and got jumpers and back pins and playing defensively.  That's not what you can do out here.
Q. Overall on 18, on the playoff hole, what were you trying to do with the drive?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Just start it down that waterline and fade it back.  Hit the fade we always hit.  Kind of hit it a little bit off the toe and drew back into the water.  Against the wind I was kind of hoping it would hit the rocks but it is what it is.
Q. What do you take out of this week?
BROOKS KOEPKA: That I can bring my C game and still compete.  All week I didn't feel it was that great.  You got to learn from it and move on.
Q. Just talk what happened on 18 during the playoff off the tee.
BROOKS KOEPKA: Tried to start it on the left side kind of where the water comes.  Hit my normal fade back and drew up against the wind off the toe.  Not surprised it drew back in the water.
Q. Just generally your thoughts today, that back-9.
BROOKS KOEPKA: I mean I still hit it the way I did yesterday.  It's not -- I wouldn't even say my C game.  I had no idea where the wedges were going.  We're pulling and pushing wedges 40 yards.  I was backing out of it.  I never felt like I really had a chance to go at a flag.
We're in the rough, too, so that's not exactly where you want to be.  But I had no idea where the ball was going, to be honest.
Q. That par putt on 16 and kind of got to the playoff, did you feel like you centered yourself after those couple bogies?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I mean I guess so.  16 we hit it so far right wasn't exactly the best place to be, you know.  It is what it is.  Disappointing, yes, but it's fun.  I'll live.
Q. When you look at the leaderboard I think at one point you were up by 3 and obviously didn't feel comfortable over the ball.  Do you take any kind of encouragement from that?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah.  You got your C game and still up by the lead somewhere which is nice and, you know, it is disappointing but you got to learn from it and that's what I'm going to do from it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT