AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 20, 2016
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Seven bridies out there.  Scoring conditions, you certainly took advantage of it.  Tell us how it went out in the 2nd Round.
BROOKS KOEPKA: It went pretty well.  Kind of lost it there towards the middle of it.  Once I started to find the lead, lost it, made a few bad swings.
Driving it really well and putting very well.  Iron play needs to clean it up a little bit.  Didn't hit it quite as good as normal but it seems to be going close to the hole.  It is what it is and thankful for that.
Q. Can you give us an idea of the conditions out there today in the 2nd Round?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Obviously it's a little wet with rain.  The course has held up pretty well.  The greens are smooth.  You're able to make a bunch of putts and that's the key out here.
Q. You had a pretty good finish last year, tied for 16th.  How are you feeling about the weekend now at 11-under par?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I feel good.  I feel my putting is good.  I've got a new putter in the bag.  Put it in last week.  I finally feel like I'm rolling the putts and seeing them go in, which is nice.  So, I mean good.  I feel like my game is in good shape and hopefully the weekend goes well.
Q. Brooks, for you today just one dropped shot.  What went well for you on this day?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Putted it really well.  That's the key out here.  And putting the ball in the fairway, driving it really well.  You're in the fairway here and with the ball in hand you can really take advantage of that.
The rough -- don't want to be in the rough.  You're able to control it in the fairway.  I would say that's pretty key.
Q. You played well at the Match Play, lost to the eventual champion, Jason Day.  But stroke play hasn't been quite as good since the West Coast.
What's clicked so far here?
BROOKS KOEPKA: We've been toying around with a few putters.  That's been the key.  I haven't putted as well as of late and I've got a new putter in the bag last week and started to seeing the putts go in and when you do that you build some confidence and some momentum and carries over the weekend.
Q. With your length and the ability to control the driver then, how much does this golf course play in your hands in the conditions the way they are?
BROOKS KOEPKA: When you're driving it far and hitting the fairways that usually helps but I've got to stick to what I'm doing.  Be a little more aggressive, aiming pretty much at every flag.  So, you know, hopefully it continues.
Q. Good look this weekend.
BROOKS KOEPKA: Thank you.
Q. How about your round?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Played well pretty well.  Drove the ball in the fairway, which is key out here.  Making some putts.  We haven't really made a lot of those 10 to 15 footers as of late.  Got a new putter in the bag from last week.  Putting pretty well and that's key.  That's why you're on the top of the leaderboard.
Q. You started really well last week at The Players.  Everyone just struggled on the weekend.  Was that an indication Thursday or Friday the way you see your game trending?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I've been really close as of late.  I feel like I'm cracking the door for a win.  That's what I felt like over the past month.  It just -- the putter just really hasn't been there.  I haven't been stroking it as well.
You know, golf goes in streaks as you can see with Jason and what Jordan did.  You got to get hot at the right time and hopefully build off that.
Q. Brooks, you were talking about tinkering with a lot of putters.  Is that what you normally do?
BROOKS KOEPKA: No, I really don't switch around equipment.  What I've got is what I've got.  The putter just the one we've got now just rolls a lot better.  It keeps rolling and rolling.  It feels good.  It feels good off the face, little softer, too, which helps faster greens.
Q. Do you know the model or anything?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I haven't even looked at it to be honest with you.  I know it feels good.
Q. How much is the Ryder Cup on your mind at the present?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah.  That was the goal starting the year, be on that Ryder Cup team.  To be honest with you, I was pretty ticked off last year with the Presidents Cup and how I played kind of coming down the stretch.
Played a bunch trying to make it.  Just got a little burned out at the end of the year last year but, you know, I want to make the team this year.  That's been the goal and I don't want to be a pick, either.
Q. Was the tournament harder than what you expected?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Well, to be honest with you, the rain kind of softened it up a little bit.  The fairways got a bit bigger and the ball is not rolling out.  Obviously you can just throw darts at the flag.
Just got to control your spin a little bit.  I mean the greens are so soft, wherever the ball pitches it's going to stop.  When you're taking on all the flags -- you know, I don't think there wasn't a pin we didn't aim at.
Q. Tee to green do you feel like you're playing well?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I feel like I'm playing really well.  Like I said, I've been knocking on the door for awhile.  I haven't put together four good rounds and to get off to a good start, you know, is key to kind of build some momentum off that and keep going into the weekend.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT