THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2016
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, got off to a little bit of a slow start.  Didn't take advantage of the par-5s on the front, but felt like I putted it pretty solid, got a new putter in the bag this week, so it's nice to see it working.  But happy with the way I finished.   
That back nine I really like.  I think I've got most improved on 17 and 18 this year, two pars after making, what, 7-7 on it last year.  It's a good start.   
 Q.  Seemed like you had two different responses in your round, like the slow start coming back and being able to put a couple birdies together after that, and then the bogey that you had on 14, coming back and going birdie-eagle.  Do you see it that way, too, just kind of answering adversity a little bit?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Not really.  You're going to catch a bad lie in the rough out here every once in a while, and I actually thought I was in the fairway.  I kind of thought I was unlucky to get in the rough.  You put it in the rough out here, you're going to make bogey, so I'm not surprised.  But as far as the birdies go, you can take advantage of those par-5s.  I killed a drive down 16.  I think we had 190 to the hole.  You've got to take advantage of the par-5s out here.  That's key.   
 Q.  Were you surprised at all by how soft it was?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: A little bit.  In the morning it was pretty soft.  I know going into that first green we were pretty surprised how quick that first ball stopped.  But you could tell it was firming up.  By the afternoon and tomorrow, it should be pretty firm.   
 Q.  Was there a point where you knew you could go pretty low today because it was so soft?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, but the pins I felt like were in pretty accessible spots.  We hit a lot of fairways, so anything inside 150 yards here, you're going hunting for the flag anyway.  I don't see -- if you're putting the ball in the fairway, I don't see any reason why you shouldn't take it deep.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT