THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 25, 2016
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You said you left a few out there today?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I felt like I hit it a lot better.  I felt like I'm pretty happy with 2-under, to finish with two bogeys coming in isn't what I had in mind, but 70 isn't too bad with how it's blowing out there.
Q. Good thing playing at home, a lot of distractions, or is sleeping in your own bed a good thing?
BROOKS KOEPKA: There's a lot of good and there's a lot of bad to it.  Obviously sleeping in your own bed is nice.  You don't get to do that too often, but it is weird sleeping in your own bed and getting up for a tee time.  It's fun.  I enjoy this week.
Q. Talk us through the difficulties on 17.
BROOKS KOEPKA: The wind today was blowing down off the left.  That bunker is no good.  That's not the spot to be, especially the pin on the left side.  You've got to be aggressive.  Today it's a hard pin location to go right at it, and luckily we had a good number and hit a little 9-iron to eight feet.
Q. It can play longer than a 9-iron when the wind gets up.
BROOKS KOEPKA: You can hit 5-iron in the wind is blowing into you.
Q. For someone who has not played here, what are the holes you have to take advantage of?
BROOKS KOEPKA: You have to get off to a good start on the front nine.  You have to play well.  1 is a birdie hole, and 2 if you put it in the fairway is a birdie hole.  And then 3, the par 5 is if you can get there.
You have to get off to a good start, and once you hit 6 through 8, kind of just hanging on because once you hit that Bear Trap, you just hang on, make a few pars.
Q. How did you feel about that round?
BROOKS KOEPKA: It was all right.  Nothing special.  I don't feel like I did much.  Got off to a slow start and kind of midway through the round, three in a row, it was nice, but pretty disappointed with even par to be honest with you.
Q. How much tougher did the wind make it?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Any time it's blowing out here -- it's kind of moving around a little bit.  When we were on 15, almost hit it in the water.  Just the wind switched from a little bit off the left and in to a little bit left and down.  One of those things, you have to get a little lucky with the wind gusts and the club selection a little bit.
Q. How did the course hold the rain from last night?
BROOKS KOEPKA: It was fine.  I thought the course held pretty well.  Wasn't too wet.  Obviously in some areas it was pretty wet.  The rough is pretty juicy on some of these holes, especially starting out in the morning when there's a little dew and everything like that, but overall, it's in good shape.
Q. Do you think even is an okay place to be?
BROOKS KOEPKA: It's all right.  I wouldn't be jumping up-and-down about it but it's fine.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT