WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 5, 2016
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A flash interview with:
BROOKS KOEPKA
Q. Are you encouraged you are still in the tournament or more discouraged because your game isn't exactly where you want it?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I mean, it's where I want it.  I feel like I'm playing really well.  I mean, I made probably four or five bad swings on the front side on my back 9 and it cost me.
Other than that, I mean, I feel like I'm playing really well.  Just a couple bad swings, bad spots.  Wind started coming up and it died down and kind of swirling a little bit.
It is what it is.
Q. The wind going in different directions...
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, yeah, swirling around.  One minute it was into you and the next minute it was down.  It was kind of difficult.  We never really had good yardage all day.  Felt like we had a lot of between numbers.
Can't go long, can't go short , can't attack it.  Played a little safer.
But it is what it is and I'm very pleased with it.
Q. The crowd this year...
BROOKS KOEPKA: It's been fun.  Everybody's hollering for Bubba.  (Laughter.)
Q. Are you surprised the scores haven't been low yet?
BROOKS KOEPKA: It was a bit tougher today.  Obviously the pin locations were a bit tougher.  Then you have the wind swirling around.  I'm not surprised.  I'm sure it will be maybe 9 by the end of day, something like that.
Q. What do you think of 17 being enclosed this year?
BROOKS KOEPKA: It's fun.  I mean, I wouldn't call it enclosed.
No, it's fun.  I enjoy it.  Give us two holes and then 18.  It's a good stretch.
Q. (Question about comments made the other day.)  How much does that help with days like this, particularly on a day where maybe your game wasn't where you wanted it.
BROOKS KOEPKA: I mean, it's always kind of in line, I guess you could say.  I'm not happy with it, but I'm pretty sure you couldn't tell if I was happy or sad or one of those things.
Q. Why are you that way?  Where did you get that from?
BROOKS KOEPKA: You can take golf too seriously.  Playing for a living, it's fun.  It's still fun.  You can't take it as life or death.  Miss the cut one week and then win the next.  You can't get too down on yourself.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT