WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 7, 2021
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  BROOKS KOEPKA:   My game was, it's been in really good shape.  I really like the way I've been playing.  You know, just had to stay patient.  Just felt like we got through the par-3 on the back, what is that, 12?  And (indiscernible) told me I'm still right in the thing.  Just need to make some putts.
 Get one putt it drop, and felt like things were starting to open up because I was hitting it well.  Very pleased, very happy.  It's been a wild ride for the last year and a half and very frustrating.  I've had moments where I didn't know if I was going to be the same, if I could even come back.
 I got to give props to Derek (phonetic) getting my knee straightened away, my hip and everything.  A lot of hard work has gone into this, and I'm actually really proud of myself.
 Q. I'll get back to that.  First, tell me about the shot at 17.  That was the winner, the chip-in.  That eagle catapulted you to 19-under par.
 BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, I saw Pete Cowen there.  I felt like the chip, it was -- if I just caught it right in the fringe it was going to check up on me, and it did perfectly.  Took a nice little right kick for me, and didn't look anywhere else but the hole.
 Happy for that one to go in.  Hell of a week.
 Q. For any athlete hip and knew injures are a problem.  For a golfer it's killer.  Talk about the pain and what you overcame?
 BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, you know, I went through it mentally.  I think that's probably the toughest thing, where you don't know if you're ever going to be the same competitor that you were.
 You go through some real dark places, and it's not a fun place to be.  Going to spend time with Derek, three months out in La Jolla changed things for me.  It's just a lot of hard work that's gone into this.
 Man, it's pretty cool.
 Q. I can see in your face, and before the La Jolla you said, Hey, I'm healthy.  I got no more excuses.  And here you are a couple weeks later and you've done it.
 BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, I think the last couple weeks it was just a matter of getting in the rhythm.  I've missed fans.  Just being around fans is something else.  I love it.  I've played my best golf with fans, so just need to find something when they're not there.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT