ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 4, 2015
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What are your thoughts on closing with a round of 67?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Pretty pleased.  Any time you shoot under par around here, the conditions were pretty tough, so I'd take it.  67 was fine.  Just not quite good enough.
Q. It looked like in those early stages, it was going to be another birdie-fest.  A bit tricky coming home, isn't it?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, we were talking about it.  Teed off on the back nine, you play the back nine fine, and then the wind kind of picked up right as soon as we were teeing off, the leaders kind of teeing off, so you have the back nine downwind.  It's a difficult course when the wind blows, especially in this direction.  It's hard; the finish from 13 on is hard.  Overall I played pretty well but just came up a little bit short.
Q. Presumably, as it carries on, you're just trying to get that extra step forward, that extra step looking at leaderboards, finding that they are really congested?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, there's so many guys up there.  It's hard to kind of breakthrough.  You need some good things to happen, some lucky breaks, but I'm pretty pleased.
Q. We touched on this yesterday, but nice playing with your father, isn't it?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, it's been great.  He's loved being out here.  I love having him out here.  It's been special for him and it's been special for me, too.
Q. Has it changed things for you, the dynamic, the approach?
BROOKS KOEPKA: We really wanted to get into this weekend.  That was kind of the goal.  I was playing yesterday just to try to help get us in here for Sunday.  But unfortunately that didn't happen.  But I'm sure he loved it.
Q. And your gut feeling at this position with Thorbjørn Olesen still out on the course?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I don't think I have a chance.  Thorbjørn is too good of a player.  I know there's some tough holes coming in but he's been playing well all week, so I don't see why anything different should happen.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT