ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 3, 2015
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What are your thoughts on shooting a 64 over the Old Course?  
BROOKE KOEPKA: It's great.  I love this place.  Any time you can come back to play, it's special.  It's cool.  Especially with the bagpipes here in the background on 18, it's always a fun place to play, and to play with my dad is real neat.   
 Q.  Sun is lovely, isn't it?  
BROOKE KOEPKA: Yeah, brought the good weather over, it was cool.  Every day this week has been beautiful.  I'll take it and hopefully it stays this way for tomorrow.   
 Q.  Presumably makes it easier as well as a lot more enjoyable when the weather is like this?  
BROOKE KOEPKA: Yeah, since the last time we were here and the wind was blowing and everything like that, to come back and have the wind pretty calm and beautiful weather, it's nice to finally play it in some really nice weather.   
 Q.  And you've done it this way around where you play the toughest course first, then Kingsbarns and now with this, you've put yourself into a lovely position and got it going on the right day?  
BROOKE KOEPKA: Yeah, I was off to a slow start, especially these courses, I don't know what it is, Kingsbarns I can never take advantage of and Carnoustie I always shoot even par.  I usually make my hay on St. Andrews and I just love the place.   
 Q.  Given that circuit, do you stay positive?  Some courses, you play them day-in, day-out, you know you have to shoot low and you beat yourself up a little.  This, you know it's coming around the corner?  
BROOKE KOEPKA: Yeah, I sit back and wait for the last two days, that's my thing.  64, I felt like it could have been about a 60 today.  Missed a lot of good putts on the front nine.  A lot of chances that just lipped-out.  It is what it is but I'll take another 64, hopefully another 62, 63 tomorrow.   
 Q.  Does it add to the enjoyment, playing alongside your dad?  
BROOKE KOEPKA: Yeah, to be honest with you, we were just trying to make it into the weekend for the team, to Sunday for the team thing.  I didn't really care what I did.  I just wanted to get him to get to play on Sunday.   
 Q.  That's nice, as well, to have your focus elsewhere sometimes?  
BROOKE KOEPKA: Yeah, it was cool, trying to birdie three of the last four, we would have missed out any ways, but it is what it is and look forward to tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT