WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 20, 2015
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  BROOKS KOEPKA: The crowd was good, energetic. They were all obviously rooting for Tiger, cheering him on because he's here. It's good for the tournament. Good to see, good to see him come back.  
   
 Q. Did you sense the buzz in the crowd especially as --  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I think everybody here can sense the buzz. It's pretty obvious where he's at.  
   
 Q. You played with Tiger before, haven't you in tournaments? Have you noticed anything different today than, you know, during -- I'm sure when you've been with him mostly during his struggles.  
BROOKS KOEPKA: He played really well today. He only hit one bad shot on 8 off the tee. He played a really solid round of golf from the first hole on. He putted it pretty well and he struck it really well. Drove the ball extremely well. I was pretty impressed with that.  
   
 Q. You're safely in the FedExCup first couple tournaments. What was your reason for coming here? Why did you want to play at this course?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I'm trying to make the Presidents Cup. That's obviously on my mind. I'm trying to sneak on this team. I don't want to ask for a Captain's pick, I want to earn my way.   
I think, you know, playing this week I'm playing well and gives me a chance and hopefully rattle off a few wins and get going in this FedExCup, too.  
   
 Q. Have you had an opportunity to talk to Jay about the Presidents Cup?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah. A few. Not too many. Obviously I've got stuff going and he's got a lot on his mind. I'm not going to bug him. Leave him be.  
   
 Q. (Inaudible).  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I know he was out here the times I came that he was here I guess were a little different. He came out middle in the afternoon on Tuesday. I never saw him.  
   
 Q. What do you think you need to do to make it?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: A win. I think a couple wins would be nice. I think that's probably the easy answer. But if I just stick to what I'm doing, I'm doing the right things and I'm close. I feel like I'm really close to breaking through with a win.  
   
 Q. Does playing with Tiger present any challenges or does it help you in anyway?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: He's the greatest player ever. If you can't get into it there's something wrong with you. I wouldn't say nervous but you're excited. It gets the blood flowing. You have no problem waking up this morning, I promise you that.  
   
 Q. Chip-in on No. 1 that he holed out.  
BROOKS KOEPKA: That was a loud roar. I haven't heard that one, that loud in a long time. It was cool to see. Obviously all the support he had, all the fans coming out in Greensboro is nice to see. Good for the tournament.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT