PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2015
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 67, 66 on the weekend, that's the way to finish off a Major Championship.
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, it was nice.  I was trying to keep a clean scorecard there.  Obviously I got a bad break on 17 and just 3-putted 13, I think.  So played really solid on the weekend and that's what you've got to do in Majors.
Q. I ran into Claude Harmon yesterday during your round after watching you smash a good drive off the 11th hole.  He said you switched drivers.  What was the change all about?
BROOKS KOEPKA: It's been actually a really good change.  I put in a Titleist D-4, it's a little bit lower spinning, something we needed with the wind.  I felt like into the wind, the ball was just spinning a little too much.  And it's worked.  Last week I drove it well and drove it well this week again.
Q. Well, you're sitting in great shape on the FedExCup list.  What's it going to take to make a good run into the playoffs?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Obviously you've got to throw in a win.  I think that's important.  I feel like I'm playing good enough the last few weeks where I should put myself in quite a few chances to win and you've just got to capitalize on that.
Q. After the first nine on Thursday, just talk about the turnaround and how nice it was to kind of erase that 40 and get it to 13-under to finish.
BROOKS KOEPKA: Obviously it was a tough day Thursday.  Being 4-over after nine wasn't the start I had in mind, but you've just got to grind it out.  Majors, you just have to hang tough and just kind of put yourself in position to be around on Sunday.
Obviously, the way things are going, Jason is kind of running away with it, but it's -- you've just got to hang tough.  That's all it comes down to.
Q. It seems lately you've become a player in these Major Championships, talk about just how comfortable you're getting and how far off do you think you are before you can maybe sneak in a win?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I think I'm ready to win one.  I think that the more of them you play, the more comfortable you get.  That's something I was telling my family not too long ago, it's just about being comfortable.  You put yourself in an awkward situation, as long as you can learn from it, you're going to be better off the next time.  I seem to learn from, whether it be good or bad, what I do on the golf course pretty well.
I looked at the last eight months -- or I guess, well, not eight months, since the PGA last year, pretty much 12 months, it's been, I've just been trending upward, putting myself in good situations and that's good for you.  I'm learning from it and I think that I'm ready to compete for Majors, ready to win them, not ready just to compete.
Q. Can you kind of relate to Jason Day's journey?  He saw Rory and Jordan kind of jump to the top and it's been a little bit more of a circuitous route for him.  If he does hang on to win, do you take kind of motivation from that, that as long as you keep, like you said, putting yourself in there and learning from the experience, you can get the result?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, any time you have somebody win that you know and you've played some golf with -- I mean I've actually never personally played with him, but I know he's a hell of a player.  I think he is capable of anything.  He's one of the best players out here.  That's why he's up there.  But I think that, especially you look at the past few years, he's been kind of hurt and I think that's kind of the reason why people -- he's kind of, I don't want to say he's overlooked, but people say he should have won more, but he's been hurt for a long time.  So, it's nice to see him healthy and obviously he's playing really well.  It's good to see.
Q. You're one of this group of players between 22 and 27.  I mean, I think there are at least a half dozen of you in the Top-12 right now.  Do you think that spurs, you guys are spurring one another on?  It's sort of a difference from maybe previous generations when there was one -- Tiger didn't have peers pushing him like you guys are pushing one another.
BROOKS KOEPKA: I don't want to say it's a rivalry, but it fires you up a little bit.  Obviously, I'm happy for Jordan and what he's done this year.  It's been incredible to watch.  But it kind of lights you up inside.  Get ready to get out there and kick his butt and I think that's something that is motivating the rest of us right now.  But it's good to see them all play well.  And especially in Major Championships, everybody seems to find their way to the top, which is great.
Q. So two top-10s in Majors and a win, almost feels like that's not good enough, given the peer group that you're in?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Exactly, well, Jordan's won two Majors, so I think it's kind of hard to, I guess, compare yourself to that.
Q. Are you playing next week?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah.
Q. So no going down to Chicago to watch Chase play?
BROOKS KOEPKA: No, I'll let him do his own thing.  He'll be just fine.  He's playing good enough, he should go a long way.
Q. Any advice you've given him going into that tournament?  He's played in it before, so he knows what to expect?
BROOKS KOEPKA: He's one of the best amateurs in the world, he knows exactly what he's doing, he doesn't need any advice from me.  I think I would screw him up.  But as far as what he needs to do?  Just keep doing what he's been doing.  He's played well this summer, I think he's been up there a few times with a chance to win, and just hasn't capitalized on it.  Hopefully this next week is the week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT