FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 13, 2015
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You end with a birdie, so that had to make it feel a whole lot better.  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   It made it feel a little better.   Obviously I didn't play anywhere I thought I should have.   You know, we kind of got unlucky on the first maybe seven or eight holes.   Felt like the wind was blowing its hardest on 4, 5, 6, right in that range, and hit one down in the water.   To hit the drive 135 into your wind, already a tough hole, it's a bit unfortunate.   That's how it goes.  
   
 Q.   You kind of feel maybe this was the one-off round that you got out of the way?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Exactly.   You're going to have one bad round, and to keep it at 1-over isn't too bad.   I'll have a chance tomorrow and hopefully get it done tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Excited about tomorrow?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, I am.   Anytime you're in the chance and have a chance to win, it's nice, it's special, and just got to capitalize on it.  
   
 Q.   Keep it going.  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   You didn't see a lot of under-round pars on the last four, five groups.   What made it tough?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   The wind was kind of swirling all day.   Little shower in there on the 5th hole, but the wind was swirling really, and a few of the tough holes, 4, 5, 6, it's pretty tough.   Obviously one got eaten up by the wind and in the water.   The next, it's already a 500-yard hole, and 135 into the breeze is a bit unfortunate.   It happens.   I didn't hit any good shots.   I really didn't deserve to be in the lead or to be anywhere under par.  
   
 Q.   All things considered, sneak in a birdie on the last.   Only one back of your co-leaders.   How would you rate today overall?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Well, you're going to have one bad round.   I don't care who you are.   If you can keep yourself in it, that's what you have to do to keep your bad rounds around even par.   It wasn't the easiest day to keep it 1-over and not drop so far back.   It's nice because it's going to happen.   Got to play good tomorrow, capitalize on it.  
   
 Q.   I heard Mickelson say 10-under.   Do you have a number in mind?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   No, I don't have a number.   I felt like really I should have been 13, 14-under earlier in the week.   You know, things change.   Obviously a lot tougher today thinking it's going to be calm.   The pins were a lot tougher today, too.   I couldn't go at all of them.   I didn't hit many fairways.   Tough playing it, had some flyers, things like that.   I think 10 is pretty close to being spot on.  
   
 Q.   Way to end it.   The round you had, finish 18 like that.  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah.   It was nice to sneak in a birdie on the last.   Obviously didn't play very well.   Didn't hit many good golf shots.   Didn't put the ball in the fairway, which you can't get it close to the hole with the rough being like this and the pins tucked as they were.   Keep it at 1-over and no change tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   What's your mindset?   How do you approach the final round?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Just do what I'm doing.   Obviously got to put the ball in play a little better.   I don't know what happened today, but go work on it at the range.  
   
 Q.   No one is really running away with the tournament at all.   Is there a reason?   Is there something -- are the greens super fast?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   The greens are in good shape.   If you don't put the ball in the fairway, you're not going to score well.   The pins are tough today.   You put the ball in the fairway, you were able to go at a few of them.   Out of the rough you can't go at any of them.   You're going to leave 30, 35-footers and not make those.  
   
 Q.   You expect similar conditions out there tomorrow to be even tougher, a day where a 66 can be the difference?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   All depends on the wind.   If it's blowing like it was on the front-9 for us and it was swirling, swirling so much we couldn't even figure out a wind direction.   We knew it was coming from the south.   Downwind, threw grass up.   Hit you in the face two seconds later.   You never really knew where the wind was.   As far as tomorrow, I'm going to go out and do my thing and hope it's good enough.  
   
 Q.   You have to be happy where you are right now.   I mean, you've had four -- three good days.   You can have a fourth good one tomorrow and wrap this thing up.   You have to feel good.  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   I feel good.   Like I said, to have a bad day and still be in contention is where you want to be.   If you're able to keep those bad rounds around even par on this golf course, you're doing something right.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT