THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 12, 2020
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Was it weird out there for you at all?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Weird in what aspect?   
 Q.  The vibe, knowing what you saw last night on TV.  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I mean, it's crazy. Obviously, I don't know if there's been more news since we have been out there, but it's definitely weird, especially, I mean everything going on with the NBA and that's not a good situation and hopefully those guys are safe and nothing too serious and hopefully everybody gets okay.   
 Q.  Was it hard to focus at all?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: No, no, I mean, I was busy the entire morning. I had a great morning. Got back to the house probably about 11:45, and they said obviously there was going to be no spectators for the rest of the week, all the way through Valero, so it will be quite weird, but at the same time I think we got to be cautious about this and really make sure for us, our safety, everybody else, the fans, everybody here, we don't want this to spread.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible.)  
BROOKS KOEPKA: No, the only weird thing I guess you could say is going forward with all the guys that travel, going forward I think it will be a little bit weird. Everybody here I think is fine. But at the same time you got guys flying in, some guys are flying commercial, you never know who they're going to run into or what could happen. So down the road I think they're probably taking it week by week, I don't know exactly what they're doing but I would say week by week would probably be the best case that we're doing.   
 Q.  Was there any part of you this morning that thought they might change their mind and cancel?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I felt last night when I was reading it I was wondering what was going to happen. Obviously I felt this week would continue, I didn't know as far as Tampa, going forward, what was going to happen.   
 Q.  Are you playing next week?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I mean, if the event's going to go on I'll be there. It's just crazy time right now.   
 Q.  That 16 green to 18 tee stretch of this course the fans are so involved in that. What's it going to be like to play in relative silence?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Eerie, weird. We were talking about it a little bit. I mean, that's what makes this golf course so fun, so exciting is all the fans cheering and booing when you hit a bad shot. That's what you want, you want that excitement, that aura around you, and tomorrow we're not going to have that. It will be a bit weird.   
We have had it a few times where there hasn't been spectators out there and it is awkward. You kind of -- especially when you can't see where the ball ended up, you don't really know where it is, you don't get a gauge for anything and it's fun for us to play in front of fans. That's what we love to do and it's unfortunate, but I think it needs to be done.   
 Q.  Do you think it would -- from an optics standpoint -- golf might look bad if every other sport is shutting down and they keep going? Is there almost a feeling like why aren't you falling in line?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, but I mean this is -- NBA did it obviously for obvious reasons; I guess Donovan Mitchell and Rudy Gobert have it, I don't know who else has it. Gobert, but I think things will change if somebody else out here gets it. That could be a completely different scenario. But at the same time guys are going home, like I said earlier, you never know, traveling, doing whatever.   
 Q.  How are you feeling?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I feel good. I feel good. Especially after today. First time in a long time.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT