WGC CADILLAC MATCH PLAY
April 30, 2015
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You hit the 16 tee, what were you thinking?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Better make something happen real quick.   We were debating on hitting driver just to get it up by the green.   My caddie told me to leave myself a good number with the pin placement, you might be able to make birdie a little better than you would up in that front bunker or anywhere around the green.   
I was a little disappointed to leave the putt short.   Kind of laughable.   I don't know anybody else that would do that.   Grinded it out and I'm happy with the W.   
   
 Q.   You still felt like you could win the match on 16?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, you've gotta never give up.   You've got to fight to the end.   It's one of those things you never know, he could hole out.   He could do anything.   So you've got to battle it out and luckily it worked.  
   
 Q.   The satisfaction you feel after taking that mentality and ultimately getting the victory, what is it like?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   It's a boost into tomorrow.   If I had lost that match, I think I was done.   To be able to do that and come back from 3‑down with three to play and get the W is special.   Hopefully bleeds over to tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Control your own destiny.   JB tomorrow.   How do you approach that match tomorrow?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   I just want to get off to a good start.   Those first four holes, he's beaten me a lot.   I haven't really done anything on them.   Made like two doubles or something like that.   I haven't played that great.   Ball striking has been a little off.   Stroking it well and pretty pleased.  
   
 Q.   JB a big hitter.   Is it fun for you to go against another big hitter in match play?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, it'll be interesting.   I think we should just do long drives to see who wins the hole.   It will be fun.   I'm looking forward to it.   It will be an exciting match.   That's for sure.  
   
 Q.   You played Chambers Bay, right?   
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   Give me your candid, honest view of what you saw?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   It's a tough golf course.   Obviously any U.S. Open golf course will be extremely hard and penalize you if you miss it in the wrong spots.   Obviously have a little bit of knowledge from playing U.S. Ams and things like that.   Getting up there Sunday and it will be big.   
The changes they've made are really good.   Moved some dirt around in places they need to.   Taking a few banks, lowered them, things like that.   Be a tough golf course especially if that wind gets blowing.   
   
 Q.   I heard some what negative reviews from players who've played there recently.   Would you give it a positive review or not?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   I would.   It's a tough golf course.   Everybody has got to play it.   If you go into it with a negative attitude, thinking it's a bad golf course, I think you are just setting yourself up for failure.   Even if it is bad, you've got to go with a positive attitude.   
It favors ball striking, so kind of‑‑ it favors me a little bit, obviously being a long hitter, too.   Such long par‑4s and things like that.   I think it's actually plays into my hands a little bit.  
   
 Q.   Seemed like you were at your bag for a while on 16 thinking about driver or laying up.   Was that a tough decision?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Just didn't know what to really do.   I wanted to hit driver, to be honest with you.   I just wanted to bomb it up there somewhere by the green.   I was a little pissed off, too, being 3‑down.   My caddie was like you have got to lay it up if you want to get near the pin and have a chance for three.  
   
 Q.   What kind of odds would you give yourself being 3‑down with 3 to go?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Not good, definitely not good.   You don't want to be in that situation.   It's not fun.   I don't really like to lose.   Just got to get it out and you never know what can happen.  
   
 Q.   Have you ever been in a spot like that, down three it's like losing 21‑0 in the fourth quarter?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Obviously doesn't happen that often.   But like I said, you just got to grind it out.   It's a battle.   It's something you just really need to grind it out, focus on hitting good shots, good quality shots, especially the next one you got.   You get away from it a little bit.   He might hit a bad shot and you feel like you can relax a little bit, but you can't.   You can't tie one of the holes.   That's the issue.   You can't fire at flags either and miss it, because you short side yourself.   It's kind of tricky how you play it.   I'm just glad to get the W.  
   
 Q.   It if you think about it, it's a wash.   
BROOKS KOEPKA:   It's a really long shot.   I got the win, so I'm happy.  
   
 Q.   Tomorrow actually is win or go home in this round‑robin format.   Did you feel a sense of urgency?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   I think the worst case scenario, if I lose I think we go to a playoff, correct?   
   
 Q.   JB won.   
BROOKS KOEPKA:   But then‑‑ I don't know.   I don't know the scenario.   If Marc one then I guess.   Just take care of business.   I'm not trying to rely on anybody else.   I just want to win.   I want to move on.   Like I said, I don't like losing.   That's a big motivation.  
   
 Q.   Did you just talk us through the 22nd hole when you won it?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   It was fine all day.   We didn't have a good number.   We didn't have a good number at all today.   It was kind of odd.   Everything felt like we were hitting everything three quarter, having to really rip at it.   It was nice to have a good number.  
   
 Q.   What did you hit?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   We hit 7‑iron.  
   
 Q.   What distance did you hit the 7‑iron?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   I hit it to like three, three and a half feet.  
   
 Q.   Did you know Marc at all through your time in Europe?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah.   Obviously we played a little bit being over in Europe, great guy.   Good player.   A lot of Americans don't know who he is.   He's a really good player as you saw today.   I just don't think a lot of people know him because they don't see him on the American Tour.   He's a hell of a player.   Lucky to get the W against him.  
   
 Q.   You played a lot of match play?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   I played a little bit in college, obviously NCAAs.   Might have played a couple Juniors.   But not too much.   It's nice to have the length, because you are always hitting second.   You know exactly what you have to do.   If it blows away right, or if you're kind of a few feet left of where you were going or right.   The safe side.   It's an advantage, yes.   But also if he sticks it, you know what you got to do.   
   
 Q.   Coming from Florida, how long did it take you to get the hang of fine fescue, just the different bounces and skids?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Not that much.   You practice with it and you get a feel for it in a day or two.   You know what to expect, so not that much.   Not that big of adjustment.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT