WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 5, 2015
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Good 3‑under par for you, you got off to a nice start on 10?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, actually hit probably the worst putt of the day besides hole No.9 right there.   Played well.   I was excited.   3‑under, I would have taken that perfect I'd even gone out.   I don't know what golf course those boys are playing alternate 8‑under par, but I'm pretty pleased where I'm at.

Q.   Can you talk about the difficulty of the golf course?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   It's hard.   You kind of have to go into it with a U.S. Open mentality knowing that guys are going to struggle, you're going to struggle and you just have to minimize it and try to make bogeys at worst.   You don't want double, takes two holes to get back; where bogey you can recover are the next hole.   You just kind of go in with a U.S. Open mentality.

Q.   How tough is 18, especially the tee shot?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   18's hard.   I hit a pretty good drive and a good shot in there and actually had an uphill chance at birdie and left it short which was kind of unfortunate.   But I'll take four there.   I'm pretty sure most of the guys would say that if they played that hole at 1‑over par, they escaped a few shots this week. 

Q.   Your brother had a better day than you did?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, I heard.   I heard he shot 66, something like that in the pre‑qual.   He played good last week, too at the pre‑qual.   I think he got in‑‑ made a hole‑in‑one, too.   That was pretty sweet.   We went out and celebrated that.   Unfortunately didn't get through but hopefully he gets through on this one because he's playing well.

Q.   You're a good wind player.   Are these conditions you'd like to see the rest of the week?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   It doesn't really matter.   It's a tough golf course whether the wind blows or not.   Whatever it gives us, we are going to have to take it. 
So I mean, I would like to see it play real hard.   I think that kind of plays into my advantage. 

Q.   Will you keep the same golf strategy for the next days? 
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, if the wind picks up.   I felt like I was controlling my ball flight really well.   I've been swinging it well for a while.   I'm pretty pleased with the way I'm striking it, the way I'm putting it.   I just felt I wasn't aggressive enough on the greens and probably could have gained about two or three more shots that.

Q.   First round, pretty windy conditions out there. 
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, it was tough.   It because blowing early, so you kind of knew you were in for a long day.   It was brutal, but I'm happy with my score, 69.   I don't know what golf course those boys are playing today at 8‑under or anything like that but I'm pretty happy where I'm at.

Q.   You had a pretty good day, you're tied for fifth and you're five shots behind two guys.   Isn't that amazing? 
BROOKS KOEPKA:   It's incredible.   I didn't think with 3‑under, I thought I would be kind of somewhat close.   I probably should have shot about five today.   Only saw about five or six, and I thought I played pretty well.   To be five back, I don't even know what to say.   It's kind of funny. 

Q.   You're from around here; you grew up in West Palm Beach area.   Had you played down here?   Have you played this golf course a lot? 
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, I came down last year and played the golf course, even though I wasn't playing in it.   I just assumed I would be here this year.   Came down and saw a bit of the changes.   It was a lot different than when I grew up and came down to play but I love the changes.   Difficult golf course, and I play golf hard golf courses well and excited to finally be here.

Q.   Being a World Golf Championships, is this old home week for you, seeing some of the guys you used to play with on The European Tour?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   It's nice to see some of those boys.   I haven't seen them in a while because I haven't been over there.   It's nice to see some of them.   A couple came over early and spent a little time at the house so it was nice to have them over and glad to see everybody else this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT