THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 27, 2015
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How big was 18 in just turning this whole round around?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   It was funny, I actually thought it was really funny.   It took forever.   It took about ten minutes all in total, but I guess you could say it was kind of the kick start that I needed. 
The birdie at 17 was actually big.   Even yesterday I felt like I didn't play too bad, but shot 8‑over, so I guess 14 strokes' difference is quite a lot.

Q.   What do you attribute that big difference to? 
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Three great players, no matter what the score is the day before, if they play bad, they are going to come out and they are going to take it to the golf course and they are going to play well, and that's what I tried to do.

Q.   Trying to make the cut after a 78, in your hometown event, was that any more meaningful than it would have been elsewhere? 
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, it is.   It is, it's meaningful to make the cut here at the Honda.   I have so many family and friends out that you almost don't want to let them down.   That's kind of how it feels. 
But I'm glad to make the cut.   I think I'll make the cut.   But today was just a grind.   The last two days was a grind with the weather and everything like that.   So I'm very pleased.

Q.   Did you feel like you needed that last birdie to assure yourself a spot on the weekend? 
BROOKS KOEPKA:   I don't know if I needed the birdie.   I wasn't even focused on that.   I was just trying to focus on finishing off a good round.   I think it was important going into the weekend, because the first day on Thursday, it went so poorly.   But to walk away with a score of 2‑over I'm pretty pleased with.

Q.   How does it feel to shoot 78 and then open up with a bogey?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   I really wasn't very happy after that.   That have (laughter) then we had the whole delay thing, so I wasn't too excited but I grinded it out.

Q.   Is your mind‑set to be aggressive? 
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, aggressive but not too aggressive.   You don't want to end up throwing it away, especially here, your hometown event, things like that.   But I grinded it out, and lucky to shoot 6‑under today.

Q.   You certainly knew you had to get something going ‑‑ get some birdies. 
BROOKS KOEPKA:   I needed to get something going.   That was the key.   I made a birdie I think on 12, especially after the rain delay, or the first one, to come out and make birdie was big, just to build some momentum.

Q.   At 12 tee box when the first delay happened, please explain what happened when the security knocked on the back door of a resident and what that scene was like. 
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, it was pouring so bad and we just were kind of waiting there.   They told us to hold position, so we thought we might as well‑‑ there's a couple houses right next to us.   We figured if we knocked on the back door, they might let us in.   We saw them kind of going in and out.   They let us in thankfully because it was nice and dry.

Q.   What were those 15 minutes likes? 
BROOKS KOEPKA:   It was pretty cool.   They came out, we met everybody, everybody in the family I guess that was there.   They came out and were just like, "Do you guys need towels" and things like that.   They were trying to keep things, dry, too.   Thankful they let us in.   Whoever it was thank you.

Q.   Was it hard to hang in yesterday with the score?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, it was kind of funny, nobody really did anything the no group.   Usually one guy does something or at least gets a couple birdies.   You can build some momentum off it.   But yesterday, everyone just was parring it to death, making bogeys and just kind of hanging in there. 
So we couldn't really feed off one another.   But those days happen.   It's something where I wasn't too disappointed actually walking away with 8‑over.   I didn't feel like I shot 8‑over. 

Q.   How surprising was it to see Rory struggle out there these last two days?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   It's a tough golf course.   Especially with the wind and everything.   Yeah, it's surprising.   He's the best player in the world right now.   Any time he struggles, I think it would be a shock to everyone. 

Q.   Did you talk with Rory over the week on how you changed in the past year from a year ago, do you have a handle of this? 
BROOKS KOEPKA:   I don't know, so much has changed I think with my game.   I think that's the big thing.   Attitude, too.   I would say probably, yeah, I couldn't have done that‑‑ I would have come back and shot around even par, a couple over today. 
But just to be able to grind it out is key and to never think you're out of it, I think that's really important.   Like I said, great players, no matter what they shoot the day before on Thursday, they are going to come out and they are going to play well on Friday. 

Q.   So when you woke up this morning and saw the weather, what's your first thought?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   I didn't look at the weather.   Really don't care what the weather says.   Doesn't matter.   Everybody has to play the same golf course so it's not too big of a deal. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT