FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
February 5, 2015
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Is this kind of more of the same from last week?BROOKS KOEPKA: I played well.  I stayed patient.  Patience is a big thing for me. I just had fun out there.  It was enjoyable with Rickie and Jordan.  I hadn't played with Jordan in a while.  So it was fun to do that.  And then Hideki, we'll be playing together for quite some time and I'm excited.  So it was a fun grouping and happy to be in that group.Q. Have you ever played here before?BROOKS KOEPKA: I never played here.  This is my first time.  I never played here.  I played nine holes on Tuesday and then nine holes in the pro-am.  So I only saw nine holes of the golf course and I've only seen nine holes of the other one.Q. Is this what you would call being in a groove?BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I'm playing well.  I wouldn't have showed up at Waste Management if I didn't think I could come out and win.  I stayed -- I made a phone call to my manager, Blake Smith, and about two weeks before and told him, I don't think I'm ready. But I called him about a week later and said, I'm ready to go and I feel like my game's in the right shape.  I'm putting the ball very well, driving it well, and putting the ball close to the hole.  So, I'm excited for the next three days.Q. Is that unusual for you to play a tournament without playing at least all 18 going in, kind of going blind?BROOKS KOEPKA: It's tough with two courses, especially Wednesday, the way the fog came in.  So, I've done it before, I'm in the too worried about it, just go out -- my caddie's walked the golf course, so it's the same thing.  He'll just tell me where to hit it and hopefully I can listen well.Q. 6-under par 66 in the first round.  After your win in Phoenix, a pretty good start Tour week after.BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I'm happy the way I played today.  It was exciting.  I made very few mistakes, and that's what you have to do on a tough golf course.Q. You've been playing, you played very steady last week, that was key to your success.  Are you just continuing that play here?BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, just tried to stay patient again.  That's big for me.  I like to go at a lot of pins, so I can get in trouble every once in awhile, but if I just stay patient and hang on, things will turn my way.Q. As you were playing on the European Tour you've seen these kind of conditions, rather cool, foggy, no problems for your adjustment here?BROOKS KOEPKA: No, it wasn't too bad.  Once the fog lifted, we went out, it was a nice day.  It was fun.  It was enjoyable, got to play with Jordan and Hideki, so that was exciting.  I haven't played with Jordan in a while and Hideki I've gotten to play with quite a bit lately.  So I'm sure the three of us will be playing together for awhile now.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT