TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN BY THE MINISTRY OF YOUTH AND SPORT
November 16, 2014
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I take it satisfying to win in style which you have?   
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, it's nice.   Nice to come‑from‑behind.   I played well.   I played very well today.   So that makes it even better.  
   
 Q.   Do you want to talk us through the eagle?   Those shots are going to go down as part of the record of this tournament.   
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, we actually had kind of a weird number.   We were kind of between 4‑iron and hybrid and I just took a little bit off the hybrid, and in the air, I was kind of hoping it would sit, and it did.   But to make that eagle putt was very big for me to build the momentum the last few holes.  
   
 Q.   Presumably you fancied your chances even before then, but once that happens, you were in the driving seat?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Exactly.   It's nice to be out in front.   I kind of felt like I was catching up the first nine holes, and I don't know when we got even, but I think that long putt on 10, too, that was big, to set the tone for the back nine.  
   
 Q.   Congratulations on the win, Turkish Airlines Open.   What's it like to finish ahead of such an incredible field?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   It's awesome.   I played well.   Obviously Poulter did, too.   This field is first‑class.   Some of the best players in the world, and it's nice to get the win.   
I feel like I've been playing really well.   Actually had a little vacation last week, which was nice, kind of recharged the batteries, didn't touch a club.   
   
 Q.   Seemed to work.   
BROOKS KOEPKA:   It did.   I should take more vacations.   No, I've been playing well and it's good to carry it over here.  
   
 Q.   And obviously now qualified for the U.S. Masters, as well, next year, that must be a great feeling?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, I had actually qualified for that through the U.S. Open this year, but to win here, it's unbelievable, and to jump in the Top‑50 and be in I guess some of the World Golf Championships events, it will be special.   
   
 Q.   Do you prefer Majors on U.S. soil?   
BROOKS KOEPKA:   No, I don't really care where they are.   They are Majors.   You get up for them, and you've got to play well and you've got to bring your best on tough golf courses.   
I enjoy that.   I enjoy the tough test.   
   
 Q.   And will you be continue to play in the U.S. next year?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, I'm going to try to do both.   It's going to be tough.   Going to be a little easier in the Top‑50.   I don't know where I'll jump to or anything like that but if I can, I will.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT