TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN BY THE MINISTRY OF YOUTH AND SPORT
November 15, 2014
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What are your thoughts on what has been a long day, but it's panned out very neatly in the end?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, I didn't play that well today.   To get 70 was kind of nice.   I lost the ball the first hole, which I didn't know you could do.   And then I felt like I missed from the three holes that I had to play early this morning, I must have missed five putts inside four feet and none of them hit the hole.   So it was kind of an odd day for me, but hung in there and happy with 70.

Q.   You wrapped up a terrific second round, about eight birdies, and anything could happen?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, feels like a long time ago now, but it was good.   It was good to finish off a good round.   I think that was important, even though I didn't finish very well the last three. 

Q.   I take it this means you've adapted well to changing conditions, because we started this week in sunshine, winds to contend with; it's been cold; it's been damp. 
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, it's been crazy.   The weather's been all over the place.   But it's beautiful.   This place is awesome, waking up at the hotel seeing the ocean and beach and everything, it's hard to get too upset.

Q.   I take it that birdie at the last is important, or could be. 
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, it was nice to roll one in.   I felt like all day I didn't really make anything outside ten feet.   So it was nice to roll one in, especially the last hole. 

Q.   Excited to have a chance come Sunday? 
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, right now I think I'm maybe one, two back.   So two back, one, two, back is fine.   I'd much rather be in the lead.   But good final round should take care of it.

Q.   Fun to be doing this as part of The Final Series with all the points and World Ranking and Dubai on the horizon, as well?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, you get hot any of these last four weeks, it's nice.   You can build it over into the next few weeks and get on a nice little run.   So hopefully finish off tomorrow strong and keep it going to Dubai. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT