FRYS.COM OPEN
October 10, 2014
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   6‑under par headed into the weekend.   Pleased with that.   I know not happy with the finish today.   But how's this golf course been for you?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   It's been good.   You know, I feel like I'm driving the ball really well.   I'm just not taking advantages of the par‑5s.   If I could squeeze a couple birdies out this weekend on the par‑5s, you know the rest of my game is pretty good.
You know, speed was a little off today.   Was hitting the putts just a tad firm.   So everything just kind of missed just high.   But just gotta work on some things and be ready for the weekend.

Q.   What's the challenging part about putting on these greens here?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Well, the Front 9 is so undulating it's unbelievable.   The putt I had on 8, I think I just‑‑ I don't know how it stopped there to begin with, but just tapped it and it went about five feet past the hole.   So you know, you put yourself in the wrong places around these greens, you're putting defensively, and that's not what you want.

Q.   You look back a year or so.   This event helped propel you to the position of becoming a fully exempt player.   What does that mean to you?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   It's great.   It's nice to come back.   Obviously it's at a different course, but you know, this event is special to me.   It's one I look to come back to in the next few years.

Q.   As you head into the season fully exempt, what are you looking for?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   A win.   You know, I kind of‑‑ this year has been a little disappointing I haven't won.   So I'd like to change that.   Got a couple of events left, so change that. 
But you know, the next thing will be a major, I guess.   I feel like my game is suited for it and I'm playing well, and I don't see any reason why not.

Q.   Well played so far.   Good luck this weekend. 
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Thanks.   Appreciate it. 

Q.   A Friday 74, Brooks.   How would you assess your effort here in the morning?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   It was all right.   Didn't take advantage of the par‑5s.   You know, it was a little disappointing, because I drove the ball so well.   I had‑‑ right in the middle of the fairway on all the par‑5s, but it was solid.   I would have liked to have gotten about 8 or 9, I would have felt a little better, but not too bad.   I think right now four back, so got a chance this weekend.

Q.   A year ago you had success at this tournament.   A different golf course, but when you come back, what are the memories, because a lot has changed in the past 12 months?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   It's great.   It's great to see everybody, Duke Butler, Kathy.   It's good to see everyone, and it's a special tournament for me, obviously, and you know, hopefully finish it out this weekend.

Q.   How are you different as a player one year later, fully exempt status for the upcoming season?   What are the goals and expectations?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   The goals are to win.   You know, I feel like I'm playing well.   I'm knocking on the door the last few weeks, even in Europe, I felt like I had a couple of chances to win.
And you know, been in contention on the back fine.   That's the big thing, and hopefully it'll come.

Q.   Brooks, appreciate the time.   See you Saturday. 
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT