FRYS.COM OPEN
October 9, 2014
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What went well today?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   I drove the ball pretty well, other than the one errant shot that went OB on 12.   Other than that, drove the ball well, played pretty solid.   I felt like every putt I had just kind of burned the edge, never really made anything.   So it could have been really deep today, but you know, 4‑under is fine out here.   
   
 Q.   Anything crazy on the OB or just‑‑  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, just kind of push a drive and it faded and just kept going to the wind.   I knew it was out of bounds when I hit it.   Just kind of one of those things.   It was funny, I did the same exact thing I did in the practice round, hit it OB there.   And then put it left on 16 in the hazard again.   Went through the same exact gap.   It was kind of funny.   
Played really well, putted really well.   Everything was pretty solid today.   There wasn't anything that really stood out other than maybe driving the ball.   But pretty pleased.  
   
 Q.   It's a different venue, but do you get any sense of extra confidence coming back to this event after how you played last year?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, it's nice to come back.   I know it's a different venue, but seeing a bunch of guys I know that I haven't seen in a while, a bunch of new faces out here, too, which is nice, and guys I played with in college and things.   It's good to see everybody.   That's nice.   And then just trying to get used to the jet lag still.  
   
 Q.   It's almost 2:00 in the morning there.   
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, I'm pretty tired right now.   I could go right to bed, grab some food and go.   But getting adjusted, up at 4:00 this morning.  
   
 Q.   What do you take away from last year at the Frys?   
BROOKS KOEPKA:   I learned a lot, believe it or not.   I think I did catch some bad breaks, but Jimmy played really well.   But as far as learning experiences go, having yourself under pressure, it's different.   It's hard to win.   I think people think it's easy watching on TV.   But it is hard, and as far as last year, it was nice to put yourself in contention.   I think any time you can do that going into the back nine, if you feel like you have a chance to win, you're doing something right.   I keep telling everybody it was kind of in stages.   The first couple PGA TOUR events it was kind of like let's just make the cut and let's try to build something here and felt pressure, too, because I only had the seven starts and I knew I had to play well, whereas this year it's a little different.   I've got the whole year, and that makes‑‑ I don't want to say the pressure is kind of off, but I know I'll play well if I just keep doing what I'm doing.   
   
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT