PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2014
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   (Inaudible)?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   You know, I got off to a good start, birdied 1, bogeyed 3, real stupid bogey, 3‑putted pretty close to the hole.   And then got it going. 
Should have birdied 4.   I was in perfect position to birdie it and didn't let them one go.   Birdied 5, 6, stupid bogey.   I made some really bad bogeys today.   It could have been a real deep one. 
But it's fine.   Got it going on the backside.   I knew‑‑ I thought if I got it to 6 or 7 today, I might have a chance tomorrow.   It is what is.
I'm disappointed with that last hole to the make bogey.   I bogeyed the last hole every day this week.   It doesn't make dinner or lunch taste too good.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   We caught a flyer actually on the left there on 18, is that where you're talking about?   You know, I think we had 220 to the hole, just with an awkward lie trying to hit 5‑iron.   I wasn't going to take a big rip at it.   It just came out flying and I thought it was actually going to be over in that walkway.   Luckily, it actually was a decent lie, but it's where everybody walks off.   Everything is going right into you.   Didn't commit to the shot, I guess, the third one.   The fourth one was just an ugly lie.   It wasn't good. 
As bad as it is, walking away with it from what I did is what it is.

Q.   How was the course compared to yesterday? 
BROOKS KOEPKA:   I thought it was a little easier just because it was soft.   You could throw darts at the pin, they weren't spinning back or they weren't going to bounce forward.   If you hit a good shot, controlled the spin, you were fine.   Wherever they landed is pretty much where they stopped. 
Obviously it made fairways a little bigger just because of the rain.   You weren't going to run through the fairway.   Like I said, wherever it landed it was going to stop.

Q.   What about playing conditions?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Playing conditions were good.   We had downpour on 5 tee, we waited a bit.   Other than that, it was good.   For as much rain as we've had, the course is in good shape.   They have done a good job. 

Q.   Even though you are on the leaderboard at the moment, you don't think that's enough?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   I don't know where I am right now.   I would assume it would be Top 20, somewhere around 15, 18 starting the day.   If it's better than that, I would be happy with it. 
Just got to go fire another good one tomorrow, hopefully shoot 7 or 8 to try to catch Rory or whoever it may be. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT