U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 13, 2014
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You played well, eight back, how do you assess that?BROOKS KOEPKA: That seems like a long way back.  But just keep doing what I'm doing and everything should take care of itself.  I'm playing well, I just keep grinding it out and hopefully we'll see. Martin seems to be playing a different golf course.  10-under is incredible.  But just take care of myself and I should be fine come Sunday.
Q. What do you feel like you've been doing well these two days?BROOKS KOEPKA: I left it below the hole, I left it in the right spots.  I haven't gotten into too much trouble and when I have I don't want to say trying to make bogey, but you just try to take double out of play.  Double will kill you.  You've got no chance.  You give up two on a hole, that's big, because you're not making many birdies out here. So we got in some awkward spots, but just trying to make bogey and keep grinding it out and leaving the uphill putts.  I left it in.  I mean, for two days now, I haven't really missed a shot, in fairness.  I putted pretty well.  Just need to keep leaving it in those spots.
Q. (No Microphone.)BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I mean, that's a lot.  I don't know how many I made this week.  I would guess maybe six or seven.  If I had to guess.  I felt like that was pretty good. So for 10-under, that's a dang good score.
Q. How does it feel to be playing well, but then be eight back?BROOKS KOEPKA: You know, it's all right.  I guess that's the only way to say that.  I just got to take care of business.  You never know what can happen.  One shot out here, one bad shot could cost you two, maybe three.  So you are never too far out of it, I don't think, especially in a U.S. Open. But just got to keep doing what you're doing and hopefully it works out for me.
Q. How did today's setup compare to yesterday's setup?BROOKS KOEPKA: I actually thought today's setup was a lot harder.  I know we got some rain, but the pin locations were in some spots, just over knobs on the greens.  You know, if you just got it on the wrong side of the hole, you were gone.  I think what's the par-3?  15?  That pin, we were aiming left of the pin, but I actually pushed it and it ended up right of the pin and I think John Senden had a putt from just left of the hole and above it and it was lightning.  He barely tapped it and it went so far bay. So I kind of lucked out on some bad shots.  But the golf course is in unbelievable shape.  It's really good.  I've gotten lucky in the native grass too, so I can't really complain.  I haven't had a bad lie yet.
Q. As a chaser, would you prefer receptive greens or fast, fiery, volatile greens on the weekend?BROOKS KOEPKA: Doesn't really matter.  The golf course is what it is.  Everyone's got to play it, so it will be the same for everyone.
Q. How did 3 play as a drivable par-4?BROOKS KOEPKA: I liked it.  I thought it was a good little setup.  I thought they would move it up with the pin on the left, just because that would be tough.  You can't really miss it anywhere. But I actually missed it in a horrible spot today.  I hit it hole high to the right and there's a little knob kind of right between me on the hole and I hit an unbelievable bunker shot and still was eight feet.  But I liked it moved up.  I think that whether they do it tomorrow or Sunday, I think that it will be an interesting hole.
Q. (No Microphone.)BROOKS KOEPKA: No, I don't think so.  It's tough to kind of prepare for a U.S. Open.  It's the hardest golf course you're going to play all year, in my opinion.  So it's really tough to prepare from that aspect. I think -- I played well last week, so that was good kind of coming into this, feeling good and just trying to build on it.  And I have.
Q. (No Microphone.)BROOKS KOEPKA: This week the short game.  I was with, started working with Pete Cowen with the short game for the past maybe month or so.  And so, I mean, we've spent hours and hours on these chipping greens.  But I've been striking the ball really well, so I haven't had to chip too much and the spots I'm leaving myself I can actually putt, which I think is a big difference, because if you get into the grain, you're going to struggle chipping the ball.
Q. (No Microphone.)BROOKS KOEPKA: Still working with Claude on the full swing, yeah.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT