ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 26, 2014
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Looks like you're in good shape.   It takes a lot of FedExCup math to know what you actually need this week.   But seem to be in good shape with one round to go?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, playing good.   I'm not too worried about the whole FedExCup thing.   I knew where I was.   I just had to make the cut, I guess, 65th or something like that.   But playing good.   I'm more worried about trying to win a golf tournament than FedExCup points.  
   
 Q.   Is that how you look at the whole thing?   Just playing well and wherever you end up is where it is?   
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, basically.   Good play takes care of itself.   If you play good, everything will be fine.   So that's the way I'm looking at it.  
   
 Q.   Do you know when you're going back to Europe?   
BROOKS KOEPKA:   I'm supposed to go back for Spain, and then (Indiscernible) Sweden right after that.   So I'll do those three.   That's the plan right now.   It's changing every day it feels like.  
   
 Q.   What do you feel you're learning by this experience of going to Europe and being back here and kind of chasing status?   Are you going crazy?   
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, well, my manager's going crazy, I know that.   No, I'm pretty chill.   I'm pretty laid back, so I just go with the flow.   But as far as going back and forth, I've learned quite a bit.   You learn how to travel, manage your time and like this week, having to go play 18 on Monday.   Just rest, not grind too much, but stay focused at the same time.  
   
 Q.   Speaking of Monday, got off to a good start on Monday with I think a 64?   
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Just feel like it's just continued since then?   
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah.   Actually, I really hadn't played much golf.   Took two weeks off, went and visited my girlfriend and really didn't play after Houston.   Didn't touch a club for two weeks.   I don't want to say it was a surprise, but I needed a little break.   Don't get me wrong.   I love golf, but I had a little bit too much of it for six or seven straight weeks.   So I needed some time off just to recharge the batteries, mentally, physically, everything.  
   
 Q.   So you were planning all along to do the Monday qualifier?   
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, I mean, I'm over here.   I didn't plan on going over to Asia.   So I figured why not, there is no point sitting on your butt at home or be out here.   I'd much rather be out here with these guys.  
   
 Q.   Do you have any other TOUR events on the schedule that are circled?   
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Right now, Charlotte.   Trying to make sure I get to Charlotte next week.   Trying not to think too far in advance.   Just stay patient, and everything will come.   With good play it will take care of itself, but for right now, just focus on this one, play a good round tomorrow and get to Charlotte.  
   
 Q.   It seems like you're just playing (Indiscernible)?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, I told my caddie I feel very relaxed this week.   Not that I've been up tight or tense or anything like that in previous weeks, but it's almost like I don't care this week, you know?   I hit it in the water on 18 and didn't even flinch.   It was one of those things.   But I think it has to go back to recharging my batteries.   It was two weeks off.   You know, you stay patient and good things will happen.   We have 18 holes of golf left, so anything can happen.  
   
 Q.   Your heart usually (Indiscernible)?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   No, I was during that seven‑week stretch I had when I went out to WGC and didn't get in.   Obviously, to me that (Indiscernible) when you go out there preparing like you are.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, just trying to get to know the golf course.   But for seven weeks in a row little things were starting to bug me, just little shots.   I'd hit a wedge 15 feet.   It might not be the worst, and then get a birdie putt at it or whatever, but it was driving me crazy, almost trying to be too perfect.   It's nice to be comfortable and just be very relaxed because that is my personality.   I don't get up tight about anything.  
   
 Q.   Most people, their heart would have stopped when the ball went in the water on 18.   Like you said, it just went off and you shook it off?   
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, it wasn't my best shot.   Obviously, you don't really aim at that pin, but you're going to hit a bad shot, a couple of bad shots.   But I played good.   That was really the only bad shot of the day, it just happened to be in the wrong hole, so it's fine.   I guess you learn from it.  
   
 Q.   You talk about being focused.   Ben Martin was so far ahead of everybody, and now everybody's catching up to him.   Is that what you were thinking?   Just shoot a good round?   
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah.   I figured if I shot somewhere around 12‑under on the weekend I'd have a chance.   I gave myself a chance to do it, go shoot 7‑under tomorrow.   You never know what can happen, so just stay patient.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Sweden.   Sweden's pretty good for obvious reasons.   No, Sweden's pretty good.   I spend quite a bit of time there.   I have a couple of buddies.   It's beautiful in the summertime, Stockholm and everything.   But, yeah, Italy's pretty good with the food too.   It's hard to beat some of these countries.   They're pretty good.   But I'm just enjoying every one.   Different culture, different things and it's fun.  
   
 Q.   Is your girlfriend in South Florida with you?   
BROOKS KOEPKA:   No, she's actually in Houston.   She plays professional soccer, so she's got her season right now.  
   
 Q.   She's out there after San Antonio and you hung out?   
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, drove down and spent two weeks there.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT