OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 31, 2014
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   10‑under for two rounds is terrific scoring, any particular aspect of your game been responsible?   
BROOKS KOEPKA:   I putted well today.   Yesterday I didn't putt very good, but today it came through.   Been ball‑striking really well and chipped‑‑ everything's going good, so can't complain.  
   
 Q.   First visit to this tournament.   When you saw the course in practice, did you think, yeah, I like this?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, it reminds me a lot of American courses.   It's weird, it's a course set up for a drawer, and I fade the ball.   So it's a little tougher for me, but I've been playing well so I can't complain.  
   
 Q.   You've been working with Claude Harmon; is it valuable having him here this week?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   It's nice to have him over.   He doesn't get the chance to come over too often but it's nice to get to see him when he does.   It's great.  
   
 Q.   What about tomorrow?   There's a chance you might play with Rory, if it stays as it is now.   Have you played him before, and if not, how excited are you about that prospect?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Never played with him but it would be fun.   Know him a little bit just from being around, hopefully be able to play with him.  
   
 Q.   You've won on The Challenge Tour; do you feel ready to win here now?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Winning's winning, I've been able to do it, so hopefully I can get it done this week.  
   
 Q.   Have the winds picked up?   
BROOKS KOEPKA:   They picked up a little bit.   It wasn't too, too bad.   You know, towards the end, the last three or four holes, got a little bit windy but I can't complain.  
   
 Q.   Were you conscious of building up that nice head of steam and pushing right up that leaderboard?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, it was nice.   It was nice to be able to go out on the back nine first and get a couple birdies going and get it rolling for the front nine.   
   
 Q.   Hasn't happened for a little while.   
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, so it's been nice.   
   
 Q.   Do you know of Dubai?   I take it this is one of those events you'd have watched in the States as you've grown up.   
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, I remember watching it when I was back in the States, going to bed and waking up and watching the tournament, obviously watching these guys over here for years, so it's nice to be able to get over here.  
   
 Q.   You've seen all the images but now you see it all around.   
BROOKS KOEPKA:   It's crazy, some of the buildings are so tall.   It's a neat city.  
   
 Q.   Are you enjoying it?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, it's awesome here, love it.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT