FRYS.COM OPEN
October 13, 2013
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Brooks Koepka joins us here after a T3 finish here at the Frys.com Open.   
Brooks, I know not the result you were looking for.   Couple bogeys there on the last three holes.   Still overall a great week for you.  
If we could just get some comments.   
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, it was a good week if you take it overall.   It was very good.   I played very well, so I just can't get too down on it.   Tied for third isn't too bad.   Just move on.   Got next week.  
   
 Q.   Vegas next week?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, I'll play.   
   
 Q.   You looked composed throughout.   At one point you had a 4‑stroke lead, and then to have the last three holes go the way they do, what was going through your mind?   What did that feel like?   
BROOKS KOEPKA:   You know, things just weren't going my way.   I didn't execute the shots.   We were making right decisions, playing well; I just didn't make the shots I needed to to win.  
Congrats to Jimmy on that.   He played very well.   But just try to learn from the whole experience.   Any time you can put yourself in that kind of pressure it's always good.   If you take something from it, that's even better.   
I definitely did this week.  
   
 Q.   Was there a putt or a moment that unsettled you at all?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   No.   I stayed confident throughout the whole thing.   I felt like‑‑ if there was one, maybe the putt on 9.   That wasn't very good.   
Overall, I just‑‑ those couple short putts inside feet that I talked about that were going in center and I was feeling very confident with, just didn't make 'em today.  
It's golf.   Things could be a lot worse.   
   
 Q.   The chip on 15 looked fine.   They were talking on TV about it hitting the fringe and losing some steam.   Where were you trying to play that?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   On 15?   
   
 Q.   Yeah.   
BROOKS KOEPKA:   You know, I just had to pitch it just a couple inches in front of me.   You know, I thought I hit it okay.   It just kept rolling out.  
But then again, it goes back to the five‑foot putt.   That's the putt you need to make, and I didn't do that.   
   
 Q.   Hot 3‑wood on 17?   
BROOKS KOEPKA:   No, actually hit it left and kind of left myself a real awkward chip.   
Actually thought I hit a pretty good first chip, to be honest with you.   Needed about two, three more inches of roll to actually get down there.  
Then I actually thought I made the third one.   But it happens.   
Then obviously 17.   I was actually worried about going long.   After I saw George...  
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, yeah.   I saw George go long, and I was worried about putting it in the grandstand.   I just tried to take it easy and came out of it a little bit instead of, you know, trusting my golf swing and everything I worked on and things like that.  
But just got to learn from it and move on.   Hopefully next week do the same, maybe a little better.  
   
 Q.   Still planning on going to the BMW?   
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, I'll be there.  
   
 Q.   What do you take from this experience?  
BROOKS KOEPKA:   You know, certain parts of my game I need to work on.   These five‑footers under pressure, I think all of them were missed left.   I don't know if that has anything to do with stroke or anything like that, but just take care of that.   Hopefully build on that.   
You know, I drove the ball really well.   Just got to take something positive from it.   Drove it really well.   
My iron game was pretty solid.   Couple of the par‑3s it was a little left, but that's just not trusting my golf swing under pressure.  
But like I said, learn from it and move on and everything should be just good.   
   
 Q.   What a great year you've had, calendar year.   
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, looking back on it...  
   
 Q.   You were given a spot here without asking for it.   
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah.   You know, it's amazing looking at the year I've had.   You can't get too down on this week.  
I mean, I know people probably criticize and things like that, but this year has been amazing.   Really has.   It's been a good year.  
This week I played well.   It happens.   Happens to the best.   
   
 Q.   How strange to be up here tied for third and to be talking as if it was somehow not a good finish.   
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, I mean, I understand.   It does feel a little weird.   But, you know, I think‑‑ I don't know how to describe it.  
This whole experience is kind of new, everything.   Everything in the last year has been a bit crazy.   No, I'm enjoying it.   
THE MODERATOR:   Anything else?   All right, Brooks, we appreciate your time.   
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Thank you, guys.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT