PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2013
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Sum up your thoughts. 
BROOKS KOEPKA:   It was fun.   I had a good time.   Tiger is a good dude.   Obviously I didn't play the way I wanted to, got off to a little bit of a shaky start.   A little bit of adrenaline going.   The ball wasn't finding the distance as I thought it was, and I don't know what to say.   I hung in there on the back and that was kind of the main goal on making the turn just to have a good back nine.

Q.   Was he someone you admired growing up?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, I think everyone my age admired him growing up.   He's the reason I'm playing.   It was a bunch of fun to play with him.   Nice guy.   Hell of a player.

Q.   Had you met him before today?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   No, never met him.

Q.   Several times you guys were chatting.   Anything in particular?   Was it golf or not golf?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Not really golf.   We were just talking about other things, just life and things like that.   It's fun, it's fun to play with him.

Q.   First time you met him was on the putting green today? 
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, yeah.   You know, I've seen him a couple of times out at Medalist.   Obviously he had no clue who I am.   I've seen him out there.   It was good.   It was good to meet him and good to play with him.

Q.   He was just saying he would like to get you into Medalist.   Is that something you've thought about?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, yeah, I thought about going to Medalist.   I'm going to switch‑‑ at the end of the year I have got to go find a place to play and Medalist seems to be a clear favorite.

Q.   It is a pairing you really wanted.   Take us through yesterday when you found out. 
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, I really wanted to play with him.   I knew when he made the putt on‑‑ we were upstairs grabbing food.   He made the putt to stay at 4‑over or go to 4‑over, I can't remember.   But I wanted to play with him, I really did.   I thought it would be a good experience, but yet at the same time I just wanted to take on the best player in the world.   Who doesn't?   Obviously I'm not playing him, I'm playing the golf course.   Just watching him, it was neat.

Q.   How much sleep did you get last night?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   I got plenty of sleep.   I had no problem going to sleep.   That wasn't a problem.

Q.   What would be the one thing you remember about today? 
BROOKS KOEPKA:   You know, it's hard that first tee.   That was pretty neat.   Obviously just hearing everybody, it was unbelievable the people shouting his name.   Obviously I have seen it growing up and things like that, but when you are actually out there it was definitely a little different.

Q.   Tell us about that fifth hole. 
BROOKS KOEPKA:   The chip, to be honest with you, I was playing it sideways to try to play it safe, and it just kind of squirted out a little right and came out a little hot and went into the water. 
The shot from the fairway we thought was really good.   I hit pitching wedge.   We had 155 to the flag, 160 to the back. 

Q.   (Inaudible)?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   We were going right at it.   We thought we had a good club, but obviously I had a little adrenaline going and the ball went farther. 
And it did the previous few holes.   1, I got a little bit of a jumper, but we were playing the front edge.   It just took off. 
It was funny, on 4, I hit the wedge shot in there and I was yelling for it to get up and it flies hole high.   It was my number, too.   The ball was going a little bit farther.

Q.   Where do you go from here?   You have got three wins, right?   Challenge Tour?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Well, I'm on the European tour.   I've only played one event over there.

Q.   So you have status now?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, yeah.   So I'll head back and got next week off and just kind of prepare and head back over.

Q.   Stay on it next year? 
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, yeah.

Q.   Where do you base yourself over there? 
BROOKS KOEPKA:   I have a house in Palm Beach Gardens, Florida.   I come back to the United States and play three, fourweeks, come back and relax.

Q.   Are you going to go see your brother?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   No, I'm not going to go see him.

Q.   What is your comfort level like now that you have three majors under your belt?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   It was nice to finally make the cut.   Making the cut was good in my first major. 
But it's a little different obviously with all the people.   And the golf course is set up incredibly tough.   As stupid as it sounds, it's a little bit of a confidence boost to come out here and play with Tiger and make the cut.   Half of it is just believing you can do it.   If you know you can do it, then you will be just fine.

Q.   You mentioned the Challenge Tour.   How important was that for you in your development? 
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Very big.   I probably wouldn't be standing here if it wasn't for Challenge Tour.   Going that route was obviously big for me.   It's not for everyone, but it's worked for me.   I enjoyed it over there.   I really do.   I like Europe. 

Q.   Do you have lots of friends from back there? 
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, some of them I have been in touch with.   Obviously it's a little bit harder because of the time difference and things like that.   This week my phone is just blowing up.   I have been in touch with a few of them.

Q.   What has been the toughest part of the road? 
BROOKS KOEPKA:   You know, it's just tough going over there, finding a place to eat.   The language barrier is obviously tough, things like that.   You know, at the end of the day, just stick to your routine.   It's golf, go to the routine, grabbing food, and relaxing.   Most of our day is spent out here anyways, just things like that.

Q.   Was it at all distracting with all of the thousands of people every second?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   No, no.   It was fine.   I want to be in that situation.   I wanted to play with him.   You don't really notice the people.   It sounds stupid to say, but I'm so focused on the shot and what I have got to do, the people don't bother me.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT