PGA CHAMPIONSHIP MEDIA CONFERENCE
February 17, 2020
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JULIUS MASON: Ladies and gentlemen, the countdown has really officially begun. It's 84 days until the second major of the year comes upon Harding Park. We are really excited to have our defending champion, Brooks Koepka with us today, and I guess over the next 15 minutes we're going to go ahead and open the floor to you to ask as many questions as like.   
Brooks it's been over -- we have to go back to the '20s when Walter Hagen won four of these championships in a row. What's your mind-set going into this PGA Championship when you could come close to history winning three of these things in a row?   
BROOKS KOEPKA: It would be incredible. Obviously you look at Walter Hagen is a name everybody knows, every golf fan knows. To even have a chance to put my name with his would be incredible and it would be super special.   
Coming back, obviously two-time defending, it's a different feeling, and one you want to win this year for sure. It's something I'm looking forward to and can't wait to get the year started.   
 Q.  Given the hat that you're wearing, I would imagine the perfect scenario would be to win this thing, look over to the camera and hold up a 2 and a 4?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: That would be pretty cool. It would be neat. It would be special. It really would with everything that's gone on, it's obviously very sad, but no better way to honor him.   
 Q.  How is your knee? How is your health?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: It's a lot stronger. It's stable. It feels good. Every once in a while, last Monday was probably -- didn't feel very good but that's why, you know, I have got my PT with me on the road taking care of everything and making sure that my knee is in the right spot. My knee is so much better. It's really progressed a lot in the last month and a half.   
 Q.  How will you prepare with the terrain, getting physically ready for the tournament?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I'll be physically ready. I've got plenty of time. What did you say, Julius, 84 days? I'll be fine. It's something I'm not worried about. It is walking, so it's not too bad. But at the same time, downhill is a little bit of a struggle but other than that, everything else is good.   
 Q.  No. 1 in the world for a bit now. How has life changed for you since, if at all?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Obviously being No. 1 is nice, but you get comfortable with it and you know, you're just trying to make sure you play good. It's as simple as. Not there right now, but I had three months off, so just trying to find rhythm and get back into the swing of things and really kind of get used to being on Tour again.   
 Q.  I know it's been a few years, but can you share with us anything that sticks out from playing Harding Park before?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: It's a big boy golf course. You have to be able to hit it long. It's very difficult. It's a major championship golf course. You know that. You look at -- this finish will be interesting. I think it will be a great finish. You look at the back nine there, starting on about 13, 14, it gets really interesting. You're going to see a lot of -- it will be exciting, especially if it's close on Sunday. I think those holes let up for quite a few disasters and some good golf.   
 Q.  Can you describe what it's like, you have a target on your back now as the defending champion and the field is so competitive. When you're the one that people are pointing toward, how does that change the way you play, or does, it when you know that people are gunning for you?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I like that. Everybody wants to be in that spot. There's nothing wrong with it. Obviously they are all doing that because you did something good and that's what you want. Just keep plugging away. It's not a normal event, but you know, it's a major; you're hyped up and you're pumped to play and ready to go, just get out there and go do what you're supposed to do.   
 Q.  Last year, the U.S. Opens you were so dominant, and then the Tiger one, the previous PGA Championship, last year, you were in complete control, had a little bit of a hiccup but were able to close the deal. What did you learn about going through that stretch and being able to hold on to win?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: It was nice. That's why you play good the early days so you've got a chance. I really didn't feel like I made any mistakes. It's a hard golf course, especially when it's blowing 25, 30 miles an hour in the wind. Played good and didn't do much wrong but you can make some bogeys pretty quick on that golf course.   
It's been fun to battle it out with him the last few years.   
 Q.  You called it a "big boy golf course," Harding, with the trees, and accuracy matters; there's a distinct San Francisco style of golf. You played in The Open at Olympic as an amateur, as well. What did you learn about San Francisco golf in those tournaments?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: You know the rough is going to be thick. You know what you're going to get. You have to be able to hit it far and you have to be able to hit it straight. There's been a precedent on making sure accuracy is big, and you know that when you come out here.   
You have to find the fairways if you event want to have a chance. If you don't hit the fairways, you're going to be struggling to make pars. You're not going to make any birdies, but it's a golf course that it's set up for a major championship like this.   
 Q.  Have you been back to Harding since the Match Play?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: No, I haven't been back. 2015 was the last time I was back. Back out here, might pop up for a day and maybe go play before the event but that's about it.   
 Q.  Had you heard how narrow the fairways are?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I'm sure they are.   
 Q.  We're going to see you hit some balls to McCovey Cove. What are you going to be using? A sand wedge? Your putter?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I'll probably use as much club as I can. I'd love to hit anything. It doesn't matter. It would be cool to hit one in McCovey Cove. I don't know. We'll figure it out when we get down there.   
 Q.  How was the Bart ride with the trophy?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: It was fun. I think everybody when I was on Bart was like, what is going on here. Brought like six, seven camera guys, everybody looking. It was fun. We had a good time.   
 Q.  What did you think about the recent distance report?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: The long hitters are going to be long hitters whether you roll the ball back or not, it doesn't matter. I always use the example: Jack Nicklaus drove the green on 18 at St. Andrews and that was, what, 30, 40 years ago and it's tough to do that now. I can't even do that now.   
It doesn't matter. Look, kind of speaking out of both sides of their mouth. They want to make it tougher, but at the same time, we want to grow the game and get people involved. So if you're going to make it tougher, not many people are going to want to play.   
 Q.  Does Harding Park allow you to play your type of game? Does it put a different club in your hand from the fact that it is a narrower course and it's got trees on each side of the fairway? Do you have to be smart about the way you attack?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: You just have to take what the hole gives you. It doesn't matter. There's no real -- my style of golf, nothing like that. You just try to go out there and figure out what the hole gives you and depending where the pin is and what the miss is, there's about 30 things that can come into play and you just have to take what it will let you do.   
 Q.  Do you have an idea -- a few months out, what type of a game plan you may have for this type of a golf course?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: It all kind of depends. You get a wind direction or the weather report comes in, whatever. It can change to anything in an instant. Doesn't matter. Holes playing downwind now might play into the wind when we're here. You just have got to see, kind of wait and figure out what the best opportunities are.   
 Q.  How much does it matter, if at all, that this is on a public course? I know Bethpage last year, there haven't been very many, Torrey Pines I guess, but truly municipal courses to host an event of this magnitude?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: It's incredible. Obviously anybody can go out and go play, which makes it unique. Makes it cool. So people really understand where we've been. If we have hit in a certain -- behind a tree or hit it left on this hole or hit it right on that hole, the average golfer out there knows exactly what we're dealing with. It brings people a little bit closer to us.   
 Q.  Does it send an important message, battling the elitism?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: For sure, definitely had that feeling for years and years and years. It's nice to bring it to a public place and nice to bring it to somewhere where, you know, it's not that exclusivity that's been, I guess, tagged with golf for a long time.   
 Q.  How important is it for you to try to get back to No. 1?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I've just got to play good golf, man. That's all I've got to do. If I play good golf, everything should take care of itself. Just trying to feel a little bit of a rhythm, build up on it. I've only been hitting golf balls for a month and a half now. Everything should be pretty close.   
 Q.  How did you handle the play off, not being able to play.  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I mean, it was a grind. It was the second we got back from Korea. I was in rehab right away, so I didn't really have much time to think about anything else other than just go attack the knee and make it strong and make it back to what it was. That was the only way possible.   
So I really haven't had much time to think about anything else other than trying to get back out here and trying to be able to play again.   
 Q.  What are your thoughts on playing this championship in a world-class city like San Francisco? It puts the PGA Tour and so many great players in this area.  
BROOKS KOEPKA: It's fun. I've spent a bunch of time out here in San Francisco when I was going through college and just getting done. Spent a much of time with a family out here in Pleasanton. It was kind of a second home there for a little bit. It's fun. It's fun to get back here and see everything.   
Obviously it will be a fun week with the fans here. I think it will be exciting and hopefully they are looking forward to it.   
 Q.  Has anyone in this area helped influence your game as a golfer teaching-wise?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: No. I haven't got any lessons out here. It's kind of far for me to travel from Florida, so I wasn't out here getting much lessons. But no, nobody out here.   
 Q.  Do you have relatives in Pleasanton?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: No. They were family friends. They were out there. So go play golf with them. One of them, Noah, is actually playing golf at the University of Washington. Be cool to see them. Hopefully they will be out.   
 Q.  You mentioned Walter Hagen and that was so long ago in Match Play. Will you embrace that trying to go three in a row in stroke play, something that's never been done in this championship, or just I want to play the golf tournament?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I just want to play good golf, man. It's simple. You start thinking about all the things that could happen, that's when, you know, I guess nerve, everything else kind of creeps in. Just stay in the moment and keep plugging along.   
 Q.  When you win a major, how does that change your life?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: A major? I mean, it puts you in a different category than everybody else. You can win as many tour events as you want, but at the end of the day, you're remembered by how many majors you've won. You look at it, and I've said it before, Arnie, Jack, Tom Watson, Gary Player, all these guys, I can't tell you how many PGA Tour events they won, but I promise you everybody knows how many majors they won.   
 Q.  But when you go to 7-11, Wal-Mart, whatever, at one point it's like, oh, there's Brooks Koepka and then you win a major, oh, snap, expletive, it's Brooks Koepka. Is it like that?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: It's definitely a little bit different. Get noticed a lot more. Things like that, it definitely changes your life a little bit.   
I'm still the same me, so it doesn't matter. I'm still just a regular guy just like anybody else.   
 Q.  Have you been to a baseball game here? Did you play baseball growing up?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I did. Actually I went on a date with Jena before were dating here, actually. Buster gave me tickets. I knew Buster from Florida State. He helped us out with tickets and we were here in 2015.   
 Q.  So you didn't go for the perfect game?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: No, I wasn't. I didn't make it out. I wasn't going to be getting free tickets from anybody at that point. (Laughter).   
 Q.  Have you looked into the Premiere Golf League?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, everybody's pretty much heard about it, looking at things.   
 Q.  What do you think?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I mean, there is a possibility. Obviously they have got financial backing. So it's become more and more real, especially with everything that's developing. They are giving us information. But at the same time, we've got to figure out what's best for us. We have no idea. So when we make that determination, we'll let everybody know.   
 Q.  Both you and Rory have been dismissive of the rivalry labeled between you two, but has him overtaking you at world No. 1 changed your mind-set in regard to your ebb and flow with him?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Not really. I just don't -- we haven't competed going into a major coming down the stretch. I think the only time we really competed with each other was WGC.   
So other than that, we haven't been in contention in the same tournaments coming down the stretch, so it's hard to say there's a rivalry. Even people talk about the Phil and Tiger rivalry, it was kind of one-sided there for a long time, too. I just don't see rivalries in golf, I really don't.   
 Q.  You've obviously won this twice and each major seems to have its own personality, and Augusta with the greens, U.S. Open with the rough, British Open with the wind. What in your mind is the signature sort of element of a PGA Championship?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I think the fact that they can switch it up and make it different. I like the fact that you can play this in long rough, big tall rough. You can play it with not that much rough and make it difficult.   
You look at like Bellerive two years ago, that was one of the funner courses to play, and then you look at it last year was probably one of the most difficult golf courses you're going to play in the entire world. The way that they can vary it and make it different, and make it enjoyable for the fans.   
 Q.  What was different about Bellerive?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I think, too, there's a lot of -- it's a sporting town. St. Louis is a good sporting town. It was fun to be there. In fact, I just remember how hot it was. I must have lost like ten pounds that week.   
 Q.  Can you speak to the talent on the PGA Tour right now? It seems like it's in a great spot right now with so many international and American players. Just how hard is it to win on this tour right now?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, it's obviously very difficult. So many guys, you go down the line, you've got Rory, J.T., Dustin. I could name 15 names, rattle them off. I think that's why you're not going to see -- guys are not going to win 30, 40 times like they have years and years ago just for the fact of it's not going to be possible. There's too much competition.   
 Q.  What do you remember about the baseball game you saw here, if you flash back to the U.S. Open at Olympic and the match play at Harding and to now think you're coming back to San Francisco as No. 1 or close to No. 1. Pretty striking contrast to where your career was.  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, it's different. That might have been my first match play, too. I could be wrong. It might have been my first one. It's crazy to look how far I've come and how things have changed over the last, you know, four or five years.   
 Q.  Any memories from that baseball game here?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Had a good day. I guess it worked out for me.   
 Q.  Will you have a chance to play Harding several times before the PGA Championship?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: We'll see. It kind of depends. I remember a little bit of it, but also at the same time depends how much off-time we get and if I can if I'm over here, obviously going to spend quite a bit of time in San Diego with my guy and probably can, if I can pop up and the weather looks good, I'll pop up for a day and play.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT