WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 5, 2021
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Brooks, if we can just get a general assessment of your round.
 BROOKS KOEPKA:   Played pretty solid.  Not too many mistakes.  Missed a short one on 10.  Just hit it too firm.  Other than that, played really well.
 It was like yesterday.  Just there wasn't as many slopey mistakes, which was nice.
 Q. Okay.  Stats say you're hitting more fairways, greens.  Do you like the way you're trending, or is it just sort of same ole, same ole?
 BROOKS KOEPKA:   I like the way I've been playing even though I haven't scored worth a damn.  I felt good going into Palm Springs, felt good leaving it, and then at Torrey I still felt good.
 Sometimes results aren't everything.  You know it's coming.  You can feel it.  It's nice to be back.  I know I'm 100%, feeling good, so just about scoring.
 Q. You're so close.  I think you're only three back.  You've won here before.  I mean, feel like the feeling of winning would just come back to you like that?
 BROOKS KOEPKA:   I don't know about the feeling of winning.  It's just nice to play in front of fans.  I mean, every time I played well it's been in front of fans.  I struggle with no fans.  I can't get the energy.  There is nothing.  It's kind of very flat.
 So it's nice to play in front of people again.
 Q. What was the best comment you heard today?  You can hear everything.
 BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, I don't know.  There's quite a few of them, especially later in the day.
 Q. What would you say was the best shot you hit today?
 BROOKS KOEPKA:   I don't know.  Nothing really sticks out.  There was a lot of good shots.  Honestly, I can't think of one.  I mean, they were all -- I felt like they were pretty good.
 I left it in the right spot, correct side of the hole every time.  Felt I was doing what I was trying to do.
 Q. Where are you on your comfort level with the club changes you made?
 BROOKS KOEPKA:   I mean, they wouldn't be in the bag if I didn't like them, right?  I don't know.  You tell me.  Why else would I play?
 Q. Are you a guy that thrives on emotion?  Is that why the fan thing is such a big deal for you?
 BROOKS KOEPKA:   I think so.  At the end of the day we are kind of entertainers.  You know, it's felt like going to play at home with my brother or my dad or buddies or something like that, and I'll be honest, when I go play with them I play terrible as well.
 I need the mojo.  I need the energy.  You make a birdie, all right, there is a little bit of excitement.  You know, bogey, there is a little bit of embarrassment.  All right, let's correct it real quick.  It hasn't been that way.  It's been very flat and ho-hum.
 Q. 16 feels sort of similar.  Got the same sort of infrastructure around it.  Even though there are much fewer fans they've done a pretty god job of making it feel somewhat normal.
 BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, it feels like a normal par-3.  Just a little bit more commotion.  Obviously it's normally a lot different.  It's normally a lot more fun.  I like that's when it's all rowdy and everybody is hooting and hollering.
 It's just nice to see them back.  Everybody seems to be having a good time.
 Q. What was it in the performance of equipment that made you make the change?
 BROOKS KOEPKA:   Just felt like the irons were going a little bit higher.  The ball flight was pretty good.  The way it goes through the turf.  The irons, they way they go through the turf, it's not -- they don't stick, because I do come pretty steep on it.
 So they can come through the turf and get out and not feel like -- every once in a while they get stuck in there and they kind of drag left sometimes, especially in wet conditions I think is really where you see he to the most.
 I like them.  The flight is good.  Good, strong flight and every thing is good.
 Q. Does it feel like it's been a long time since you won?
 BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah.  I mean, I would say so.  In my mind last year didn't even happen.  I do know it's been a long time so I'm itching to get a W.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT