SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 3, 2019
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I know overall probably not entirely satisfied with this opening round. All things considered, first competitive round in over a month. Where do you think your game is?
BROOKS KOEPKA: It's fun. Just hit a few costly shots. Any time you hit a ball in the water and take an unplayable it's not going to be great.
Just trying to get back in the flow of things. I feel good about it. I feel just fine. It's nice to get this one under my belt and play good the rest of the week.
Q. You mentioned that this is the first time in a long time you've been able to have the practice leading up to an event to feel that kind of preparation. How much of an impact does that make?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, it's nice. It's nice to feel comfortable over shots and know which direction they're going to go and how they're going to be flighted. I thought I did a decent job at it today. A little bit of touch and feel kind of around the greens. They firmed up quite a bit since the last few days.
Overall I didn't think it was too bad. Just different when you're beating balls on the range and actually have to go out and score. It's a little different. I'll be just fine.
Q. One thing that has to be relieving, you were mentioning just walking the course and the pain you were having in your left knee. Now that that's not there, does this feel totally different?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, it's nice to walk on hills and not have to worry about it. It was interesting at the British. Being on awkward lies, ball below your feet, and I couldn't get on my left side.
So it's nice to feel good, you know, and hopefully carries through the season.
Q. Anything you'll be looking at, working towards tomorrow?
BROOKS KOEPKA: No. Just go on the range. Fine tune everything. Everything feels good. Try to figure out a little more touch around the greens. Work on chipping. Few putts got away from me.
Overall, not too disappointed.
Q. Those are all things that come back when you get into the competitive flow, no?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, exactly. It's one thing to be sitting at home and trying to hit putts, and you get out here and the gun goes off it's a little bit different. You know, five weeks off, usually don't take that long off of competitive rounds.
To get back is a nice feeling to start again.
Q. What's first thing that comes to your mind about the round today?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Just knocking off the rust of five weeks off. You know there will be a little bit of rust; I didn't think I played too bad. I hit good golf shots and got penalized a couple times. A little sloppy. But I feel just fine.
Q. Your mental makeup, you want to be the best, win; where does that come from and how do you take that into a round, each and every round?
BROOKS KOEPKA: If you're playing to be second best I don't know what you're playing for. Seems very simple for me. I don't know anybody in any professional sport that wants to be second best.
Q. Right along with that, you've attained a high level of excellence. How would you define the word excellence?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Just staying competitive for a long period of time. I think staying at the top of your profession, whatever it might be. If you can hang there for a really long period of time you're going to be fine.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT