TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 25, 2019
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How would you assess what went on out there this afternoon?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Just didn't put the ball in play, man. If you're not going to put it in play, you're going to have a hard time scoring, you're going to have a hard time controlling your distances. And just didn't make any putts. You know, those three putts I missed kind of right there in a row, 12, 13, 14, kind of took the air out of everything.   
But at the same time, great year, so looking forward to some time off.   
 Q.  Did some of those old habits creep back into your swings especially with the driver today?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: No. It was one of those days where even on the range, I didn't feel very comfortable with the driver. I felt iron play was good. Just the driver, I just couldn't -- it wasn't fading enough. Everything was kind of left, and it happens once in a while.   
 Q.  How did Rory look different in the final group?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: He just played better. I mean, he played great golf today, pretty much mistake-free. He was impressive to watch. He put it in the fairway a lot, hit a lot of greens. And even his short game, the up-and-down he made on 11, that was pretty tasty right there. And then the way he finished it off right there was very impressive, and hats off to him.   
 Q.  Was your warm-up different than the first warm-up this morning with your swing, mechanically?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: No, I hit it great. I hit everything great. Driver, I just didn't -- just never felt comfortable with the driver. It was kind of one of those things. Everything was fine. Everything on the range with the driver was fine. Just one of those days where you don't feel comfortable. I mean, I can't bring it every day.   
 Q.  You said good year; how would you assess your season?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, it was good. I mean, I won a major, so that's pretty good.   
 Q.  How much time are you going to take off?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Five weeks, I believe, five or six weeks. Looking forward to that.   
 Q.  What do you have planned?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Vacations. I'm going to enjoy myself.   
 Q.  You've faced Rory now like nine times in the last month --  
BROOKS KOEPKA: It's actually true because I've played with him more -- well, I guess because of the way the FedExCup does it, it's like one, two, three, so I've played a lot with him over the last couple weeks. But his game is in great form right now. It's really impressive to watch. Like I've said multiple times, he's the most fun to watch when he's playing well. He hits it so good, he putts it really well, and when he's on, man, he's tough to beat.   
 Q.  You must enjoy the challenge, however it turns out.  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I mean, I didn't play how I wanted to, but at the same time, I still love the grind. I mean, I still love competing and trying to figure it out, even when it's not your day.   
 Q.  Do you ever look ahead and kind of see there's probably going to be a lot of this for the next foreseeable future, five years, maybe more, you and him in final groups?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah. No, I hope so. I enjoy competing against Rory. He's a tough competitor. He grinds it out, man. Even when you're playing with him, it's fun to watch him. Hopefully it stays that way for the next -- everybody stays healthy and competitive.   
 Q.  Would you put this year even better than last year? You won two majors, but you put yourself there more often. Obviously in all four you were high up there, had a WGC win as well, were in the mix here again.  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I mean, I like two majors a little bit better. But at the same time, I thought my consistency was a little bit better. I thought -- I think if you take away the major wins, I would say this year is probably better, or just the majors. This year was very, very consistent. I felt like every time I needed to, I played well. You know, this week, just didn't get it done. I don't think I was going to beat Rory today, even if I had it. But pleased with the season overall.   
 Q.  What's going to be kind of your game plan for making next year better than this year?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Enjoy my vacation time. That's what I'm going to do.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT