TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 23, 2019
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Sum up your play.
BROOKS KOEPKA: I mean, the lead's always nice, so I'll take that. I played good today. I putted really good. Short game was pretty solid. The rain delay kind of killed any momentum I had. I didn't feel like I had any good golf shots after the rain delay, but that's part of golf. Everybody's got to deal with the same thing, just didn't execute.
Q. Does it feel like you're in a regular tournament now? Has it settled down?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, everybody makes a big deal about it, but most of the time when we tee off on Thursday, we're already six, seven behind because the morning wave is done. It's not a big deal. You just go out there and try to close that gap, and I've done a good job with that.
Q. What did you hit on 15 and 18?
BROOKS KOEPKA: 18, I hit 5 iron. 15, 8 iron out of the rough there.
Q. Sorry. Par 3.
BROOKS KOEPKA: Same thing, 5 iron. I knew Rory and J.T. hit 5 iron just because of where their balls ended up, and I knew mine was going to be about the same. It was nice to see their shots in there walking off that green into the next tee.
Q. Have you ever been disappointed with a birdie like on 18?
BROOKS KOEPKA: No. I mean, I hit three good shots -- or four, I guess. The tap in was good too. But it's one of those things where I hit a good putt. I've got no complaints. Just over-read it or I ^ CK. I think about it, that's probably high line with the soft speed, it goes in. But when it came off the putter face, I liked it, so I've got no complaints.
Q. D.J. had some fun this morning with the pictures. Any other feedback from anybody in the locker room or any players about The Body Issue photos?
BROOKS KOEPKA: No, we're just laughing about it. I mean, like I said, when I got out of the car, everybody kind of ruins that. Social media, everybody puts it on there. So I had two hours to laugh about it, and it's not really that funny when you get here and the cameras are there. Like I've already laughed and joked about it, but I got romantic comments, so don't worry.
Q. Do you feel in a good place with the swing now?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I feel better. I don't feel like I'm clicking 100 percent, but it's definitely close. There are shots where it's like, how did I just do that? And there are some shots where I'm like, man, why can't I do that every time, like on 18? I feel good. I feel very confident. I got no problem where I'm at. I feel very confident with the putter, which is most important.
Q. People were asking what's on your shoes, Oasis?
BROOKS KOEPKA: The Off-Whites? It's fashion, Bro.
Q. No, the other.
BROOKS KOEPKA: This is such like a typical golf nerd, like 40-year-old white man like --
Q. I've got two kids.
BROOKS KOEPKA: I don't know how to explain it. It's Off-White. It's fashion. I guarantee the whole golf world has no clue what Off-White is, but it's fresh. If you're a sneaker head, you'll get it -- or into fashion. Sneaker heads know, yeah.
Q. Sneaker heads know.
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah.
Q. Will I explain to the 40-year-old white golf guys? No.
BROOKS KOEPKA: The average guy won't know what the deal is.
Q. Do you feel like your pictures did more to bring the casual fan to golf than these FedEx Cup Playoffs?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I don't know.
Q. Was that part of your reason for doing it?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I mean, I've gotten a lot of -- I've seen it on Twitter and Instagram, people are like how in the world could you do this? You never see Arnold Palmer or Jack Nicklaus and guys like that doing that? It blows my mind. Golf is the only sport where you're compared to guys for generations and how they acted, not where they are on the golf course. Golf is pretty weird that way.
You know, if they had social media back then, I think it would be a lot different for them too.
Q. I just feel like you captured the demographic that needs to be captured, people you don't think are interested in golf and don't think golfers --
BROOKS KOEPKA: You see all these athletes do it. Gronk did it. Saequon did it. Everybody from every sport, yeah. So males, females. Every sport has basically done it. We work hard. Might as well show it off.
Q. How are these distractions you've had all year and keep winning?
BROOKS KOEPKA: What distractions have I had?
Q. (No microphone.)
BROOKS KOEPKA: Maybe just these flies that keep flying around my face. It's just annoying, but it doesn't bug me. I'm good. When I get inside the ropes, nothing's going to bother me.
Q. I don't mean it in a bad way. To see all the stuff about yourself online and you just keep playing. It doesn't bother you?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I could care less what people say online. If you've got people hating you, you're doing something right.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT