THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 7, 2019
Brooks Koepka
Eric Andersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MARK WILLIAMS: We have a special presentation to celebrate Brooks becoming the inaugural Aon Risk Reward Challenge winner on the PGA TOUR, and we are delighted to be joined by Mr. Eric Andersen who is the co-president Aon, and I would like to invite Eric to say a few words.
ERIC ANDERSEN: Thank you, good afternoon, everybody.  First of all, congratulations to Brooks.  We can't be more excited to have him as our inaugural winner, as you can see by the trophy.  Hopefully it will be the first of many as we go through the coming years.
Maybe just a minute on the competition itself.  We worked with the PGA TOUR and the LPGA to build a season-long competition that involved risk and reward on some of the most challenging holes over the course of 18 tournaments.
So we've been watching, and our colleagues have been watching, as Brooks and the other members were competing through the year, and it was really exciting to see him come along.  I will say, the one aspect of it that we are especially proud of, it's a million dollar prize for both the PGA and the LPGA winner, and so it's something that was pretty important to us as we were building this with the PGA TOUR, and they were super supportive of it, as well, so congrats to you.
BROOKS KOEPKA: Thank you.
MARK WILLIAMS: Brooks, congratulations on winning the Aon Risk Reward Challenge.  You've had an amazing season.  Your thoughts?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, it's been incredible.  It's been an incredible season and to win the Aon Risk Reward Challenge, it just shows how consistent I've been throughout the year.  I know guys were thinking about it because there was a lot of chatter going on the last month or so from different guys that were near the top and had a chance to win, but it's been so much fun.
Even if you know you're kind of out of the tournament, you've still got something to play for.  You still need to play that 18th hole or whatever hole it might be and play it solid.  So it's been fun for us players.  I know everybody's talking about it, so it's been incredible.
And the LPGA girls have got a chance here coming up, in November I believe they finish it off.  It will be exciting see who wins that.
MARK WILLIAMS: How do you think this challenge has resonated on the LPGA Tour and the PGA TOUR?
ERIC ANDERSEN: We've been very pleased with it.  Most people understand the concept of risk and reward, and part of the strategy with building out the competition was around taking the right risks to get the reward to be successful, and that certainly works if you're a golfer and you're playing, you know that very well.
It also translates into business and life, as well, for people that they want to take a risk but the rise risk, so using analytics and insight and experience, all that matters when you're trying to take the right risk.  It has connected well with individual people and clients and I think it's resonated well with our clients, the businesses.
MARK WILLIAMS: Was there a particular moment, defining moment, that kind of clinched the deal for you?  Was there a hole that stood out for you during the season?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, it was actually kind of funny, at Travelers on the 15th hole, I knew where I had been told a couple weeks I think prior to that where I stood, and you're trying not to think about it when you step up on the hole, and then one ball goes in the water and next thing you know, you're making a couple bogeys and you're just kind of thinking to yourself, man, I really blew this.  That was disappointing.  I thought I blew my chance at it leaving that week, but I hung in there.
And at 3M to make an eagle there, I think I made a triple and a double on the hole and I was thinking, here we go again.  I'm going to be down at the bottom here shortly after leading this thing.  And to make eagle at the last to kind of come back, it's been exciting and then disappointing all at the same time.
Then all of a sudden, you find yourself with a chance to win at Memphis, and then it's been incredible.  I was jabbing DJ about it, missing that 4-footer a little bit, when he got back on Monday night.  I owe him a couple drinks, I guess.  (Laughter).
MARK WILLIAMS: And then finishing up here on the PGA TOUR with you as the champion, it will be winding up in the next few weeks on the LPGA.  Will you be following that competition?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, it will be interesting to see what happens with the girls.  Aon has done an unbelievable job creating this buzz and excitement throughout the entire year.  I think that's what's important.  It's going to show, like we said, consistency all year, and to see these girls battle it out down the stretch, it will be fun now that this is done and we can kind of sit back and watch and see who wins it.
MARK WILLIAMS: Appreciate your time joining us and thank you for the season-long presence of Aon on the PGA TOUR and the LPGA.  We appreciate it.  Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT