THE 148TH OPEN
July 21, 2019
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BROOKS KOEPKA: I left a couple putts short right in the middle, so that's very frustrating.
Q. Seemed very slow out there.
BROOKS KOEPKA: I wasn't wearing a watch, so, yeah.  Yeah, I mean, he had a rough day.  But J.B. is a slow player.  I know it's difficult with the wind, but I didn't think he was that bad today.  I thought he was all right.
Q. Obviously those four bogeys at the start, you came back pretty well.
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I'd say so.
Q. (Inaudible.)
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I mean, there were some times where I thought it was slow.  There's a lot of slow guys out here.  It's not the first time I've done it, especially when you've got a walking official with you.
Q. Obviously you want to play in a rhythm.
BROOKS KOEPKA: I'm trying to think.  We were on pace for 13 holes.  But I mean, if I'm in a group, we're going to be on pace no matter what.  I'm usually ready to go, as soon as the guy's ball is coming down.
Q. (Inaudible.)
BROOKS KOEPKA: No, I just always play -- I'm ready to go most of the time.  That's what I don't understand when it's your turn to hit, your glove is not on, then you start thinking about it, that's where the problem lies.  It's not that he takes that long.  He doesn't do anything until his turn.  That's the frustrating part.  But he's not the only one that does it out here.
Q. (Inaudible.)
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, the European Tour does an unbelievable job with the pace of play, posting it in the locker rooms.  The PGA doesn't do that.  Like I said, it wasn't that bad today, it really wasn't.
Q. It wasn't that bad, but relative to his usual pace?
BROOKS KOEPKA: No, it was slow, but it wasn't that bad for his usual pace.  I thought it was relatively quick for what he usually does.
Q. (Inaudible.)
BROOKS KOEPKA: I played good this week, so obviously disappointing not to the finish I was looking for.  It becomes I guess a battle to try and figure it out and try to improve on it next year.
It was a great run for three of them and then this one, nothing you could do.  How cool is that to win in Ireland?  Props to Shane, he played unbelievable golf.  Is he at 15 coming up the last?  Whenever he finishes at, 14, 15, I mean, today to shoot 1-over in the lead, that's -- with the conditions, that's unbelievable.
Q. Obviously you're disappointed, but as a whole?
BROOKS KOEPKA: As a whole it's awesome.  That's what I'm striving to do, play well in the big events.  And I sort of did that.  This week is disappointing, but the rest of them have been -- it's been great.  I'm not going to lie.  It's been fun.  I would have liked to have just made a few more and finished it off with a bunch of second places.
Q. How do you think you'll handle this big gap now until the next?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Do the same thing I ever do, go play the FedExCup and then go play a couple of tournaments in the fall.  And then start the season over again.
Q. Did you warm up well or were you just completely shocked what happened the first four holes?
A. No, I warmed up fine.  I probably hit four of the worst shots I've hit all week.  I didn't make anything, so 1, I'm not surprised that I three-putted that.
2 I can't believe the wind didn't blow it left.  I actually hit a good tee shot and got screwed.  And then to hit it left, that was just a really bad swing on the third one, on No. 2.
And I don't know what I did on that chip, I just bladed it, mental error or whatever.  And then to not fly that bunker, I thought I could fly that bunker.  Just a couple of swing errors.  The worst swings I've made all week.
Q. Talk about the conditions?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, it was blowing pretty good.  This is the toughest wind direction I think you're going to get on this golf course.  It's difficult but obviously Shane's able to do it.
Q. Obviously you're frustrated but the fact you were in the mix, is that a positive you can take out of the week?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I mean I don't see much positive out of it.  If you don't play good you're not going to win.  So it's very simple.  It's disappointing, yes.  I didn't play the way I wanted to.  And I've got to live with that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT