THE 148TH OPEN
July 20, 2019
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How good was that ball-striking today?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, nobody has hit it better than me this week.  I've hit it as good as I could possibly imagine.  I putted the worst in the entire field, if you look at strokes gained.  I don't know if they have that.  It's been really bad.  Very frustrating.  Disappointed.
But thankfully it's going to blow tomorrow to have any sort of chance.  I need to figure out the putter.
Q. The challenge of bad conditions on Sunday.  Almost looking forward to the forecast tomorrow?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I need it.  I need it.  Being, what, 7 back.  Here you need some wind, you need some rain.  You need anything that can kind of go your way.  And that's got to be an advantage.
Especially the way I'm striking the ball.  I've struck it so good.  If it's going to be windy, you need to be able to strike it good, control your flight, and figure out where you want the ball to end up.  If it's going to blow 30, it can get out of control very quickly.
Q. How much is the speed of the greens here, the fact that they're so much slower do you think is affecting it?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I don't think it's that.  I think there's some weeks where you just don't make anything.  They feel like good putts when they come off the blade.  But they're burning the edge.  That's the only thing I can say.  They feel like good putts.  They're all tap-ins right there.  The speed is fine.
Links golf you know you're not going to get fast greens.  You know you're going to be a little bit on the slower side.  And sometimes it's just I haven't hit them and when I feel like they're good putts they just burn the edge.
Q. When you were back at Bethpage you were back seven shots, it wasn't that much.
BROOKS KOEPKA: I guess if you put it that way.  The last time Shane had the lead at Oakmont we saw that.  At Bethpage it can go very quickly.  Bad weather happened at Bethpage.  I guess maybe the last, what, 15 holes was very, very windy, especially that back nine.
In links golf all of a sudden a couple of bad bounces and you never know or in a couple of bunkers.
Q. Do you think that your success in the majors that other players will pay a little more attention to you when you're on the leaderboard like this?
BROOKS KOEPKA: It doesn't matter to me.  I'm looking at the top spot, that's it.  That's the only thing I'm looking at.  It doesn't matter.  I'm assuming they probably do.  But at the same time I have no idea, I've never asked anybody.
Q. Do you look at this as you're in third place or that you're seven shots back?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Seven back, that's the way I look at it.  It's been disappointing.  It's just not the week I've been looking forward -- not the week that I've expected.  But at the same time, there's one more round, so I need to figure it out.
Q. You always need one good putting day.
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah.  Essentially, yeah, that's it.  I just need to putt good one day.  So I'm about to go do a whole bunch of work on that putting green and see if I can somehow confidence, somehow find anything.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT