THE 148TH OPEN
July 18, 2019
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How did you feel about that round?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I feel like I played pretty solid.  I missed it in the right spots all day.  One bad one on 17.  That's going to cost you.  Didn't really make any putts.  Didn't take advantage of anything to really go low.
But definitely didn't shoot myself out of it, so I'm okay with that.
Q. What did you learn about the course?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I don't have to learn much, my caddie knows it all.  I'm okay with not knowing much.
Q. What is it about links golf?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I like the creativity you have to have.  You'll be standing over a shot and I see about 20 different flights and shapes, any way you can get it close to the hole.  It's just about picking the right one.  That's what makes links golf so fun.
Every time I come over here I'm excited to play.  You know you're going to deal with difficult conditions, and that's what I like.
Q. How many shots did Ricky guide you on?  Every one?
BROOKS KOEPKA: 68 of them (laughter).
Q. Has there been anything he said this week that surprised you?
BROOKS KOEPKA: No, not really.  It's easy when he's just standing on the tee telling you to hit it in this spot and I just listen to him.  I don't think have to think much.  I don't have to do anything.  I figure out where the miss is and where I'm trying to put it and then go from there.
Q. What were you the happiest with today?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Just the way I controlled my flight.  I thought that was -- I never really let one get up into the wind.  And downwind I felt like I was really able to control it and spin it.  And that's important if you're going to play well over the next three days.
One bad drive on 17.  Iron play was pretty solid.  Putting, I felt like I hit good putts, they just didn't go in.  That's going to happen in links golf sometimes.
The greens are -- I mean, these are some of the best greens I've seen on links golf.
Q. How many times did you get poured on?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Probably 10.  Sometimes they'd come a minute, minute and a half and then other times -- standing on 2 tee box, man, I felt like the world was going to end.
Q. How difficult is it going from pouring rain to dry, back and forth?
BROOKS KOEPKA: It doesn't matter.  Everybody else has got to deal with it.  You just push on and see where I'm at and throw the rain gear on and hide under the umbrella a little bit, and when it's my turn, I'll just go out and hit one.
Q. You've played all over the world.  Have you ever experienced something like that where it's on again, off again?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah.  I've played (indecipherable) in a lot of wind.  It rained pretty much I think all day and probably some of the hardest rain I've been in.
It doesn't really faze me.  I think it makes it more interesting.  I think it makes links golf a lot more fun because you know the wind is going to pick up or die down right after.  You're waiting on that.
Q. What is it like to have this guardian angel, the whole round telling you what shot to do and knowing the course so well?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, it's fun.  Obviously he knows this golf course like the back of his hand.  He knows where to miss it, especially where up the pin might be.  If the pin is on the right side, it might be a little bit different club off the tee.
It's interesting having him on the bag and all the knowledge.  It makes my life a lot easier.
Q. You guys are so accustomed to super fast greens.  Talk about these greens.
BROOKS KOEPKA: No, actually I think these greens are pretty solid.  They roll very true.  On links golf you're not going to get the fastest greens.  You just have to adjust to it.  We do it every year, someone wins so they figure it out.
Q. Sharma said you had a reminisce about the last time you played together, which was at a different stage in your career.  Did that make you reflect a bit?
BROOKS KOEPKA: No, I was focused on what I had to do.
We talked about it going down 8, talked about playing together on the Challenge Tour.  But I'll chat, but I'm focused on what I have to do.  I'm not thinking about six years ago what I did on the hole or the round.  I'm more concerned about what I have to do right now.
Q. It's only 18 holes but how confident do you feel in your game going into tomorrow?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I've hit it unbelievable the last couple of days.  I'm very pleased with the way I'm striking it.  It's nice to get some practice in over the last five, six days.  I feel good.  I feel very comfortable.  It's a major championship.  That's what you're trying to peak for.
Q. Are you aware of the history of the last years and why this is so special to the people here?  Do you sense that on the course?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah.  They love their golf.  It's pretty simple.  You can see with the turnout we've had today.  I think yesterday was the most people I've seen on a Wednesday.
So not having it in Ireland for, what, 50 years, 60 years, something like that, it's special for them to have it here.  And being with so many guys that are from here or live here, I'm glad it's back over here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT