THE 148TH OPEN
July 16, 2019
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MIKE WOODCOCK: Good morning everyone.  Glad to be joined by four-time major champion and current PGA Champion, Brooks Koepka.
You're on an incredible run in form in major champions at the moment.  And you're coming to this week with a lot of confidence.  Someone who has played a lot of golf in Europe and a lot of other parts of the world, as well as exceeding so well in the U.S., how much would it mean to you to win The Open?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, it would mean a lot.  I enjoy links golf.  It's fun.  I see so many different shots.  Every time I'm over a golf ball I see about 20 different shots you could play.  To me it makes it interesting.  It makes it fun.
Being able to play so many different types of shots and get it close to the hole, using your imagination, that's what I enjoy.  That's what makes it so much fun to play.  And you figure out a strategy.  And luckily my caddie has played this golf course, I can't tell you how many times, so that's a big advantage.  It's nice to have him on the bag this week and hopefully have a good week.
MIKE WOODCOCK: How much of that local knowledge are you going to make use of?  Obviously he has a great insight into the course.
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, it's nice.  Every hole I just step up on, You tell me what to do, you've played it more than anybody.  So just let him figure it out.  He knows his spots to miss it.  The spots to come in from, with different hole locations and different winds.
It will be -- definitely have a little bit more confidence having him on the bag this week, knowing this golf course so well.  But I'm looking forward to it.
Q. Is there anything that Ricky might have told you over the last couple of days that maybe surprised you about this course?  Because I think you said you never played here before; correct?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, no, I've never been in Northern Ireland, never played the golf course.  He's just told me spots where to hit it.  This is where you want to leave it.  A couple of holes, you don't hit many drivers.  Hit five, maybe six drivers, if the wind direction stays the same as it's been the last four days.
But just try and avoid bunkers, that's all.  In links golf that's all I'm trying to do, I feel like that's the biggest penalty you can make out here or biggest mistake.  If you can avoid those and put yourself on the right side of the hole, you're going to have a good chance to win the tournament.
Q. One of the guys playing with you for the first two rounds is a guy called Sharma.  Do you remember playing with him six years ago?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, we played the Challenge Tour in India, I believe.
Q. Yeah.
BROOKS KOEPKA: What did you say, six years ago?  It was a long time ago.  It will be fun to play with him again.
Q. Have you ever spoken with him since or have you ever had a chance since then?
BROOKS KOEPKA: No, I haven't spoken to him since.  I don't know if we're playing different schedules or what.  I haven't really seen him.  You see him in the locker room, you just say hi, but that's about it.
Q. The difference between your form in majors and regular events has been made a lot of.  Just wonder when you've turned up here this week, is it something that's actually clicked?  Can you feel anything different coming into this?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I just practice before the majors.  Regular tournaments I don't practice.  If you've seen me on TV, that's when I play golf (laughter).
I left Travelers and showed up at 3M on Tuesday night.  On Wednesday was the first time I touched a club in, what, ten days.  That happens week in and week out.  And majors I like to play the week before and find a rhythm, build a rhythm.
Got over here Friday and have practiced.  So I'm usually ready for majors.
Q. Do you plan to play in the Olympics next year?  What are your thoughts about playing in the Olympics?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I haven't given any thought.  I'm focused on this week.  So when I'm done -- when that time comes, I'll get there.  But I haven't put any thought into it.
I'm trying to finish off a good major run here and then you've got the FedExCup and then the Presidents Cup later on.  And from there maybe next year I'll think about it, give it some thought.  But it would be cool to play.
Q. I'm sure Ricky has told you all about how beautiful Portrush is, and the character of the place.  What have you made of the course and the Harbour Bar since you've been here?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, it's been fun.  Got in, like I said, Friday.  And it was just trying to get acclimated, just trying to get my feet under me for a little bit.
It's been fun.  It's been fun to do.  We took a little drive around on Friday afternoon, and then went into town.  It's fun to go down there.  We went down to the Harbour Bar, just kind of had some food.  It was nice to kind of see everything he's talked about for so long.
We went and visited his parents, saw where he grew up.  It's neat for him.  It's neat for me to see because I feel like I've heard so much about this place, I just haven't been able to get here.
Q. With the Ricky connection, how have the fans been with you out there?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I mean, yesterday was about the only day there were up fans.  But it's been fun.  I probably hear more, Ricky, hey, Ricky, what's going on, than anything.  I'm sure he'll have quite a bit of friends and family out.  It will be a special week for him, for sure.
Q. Is he enjoying that attention?
BROOKS KOEPKA: He has to be.  He has to be.
Q. Have you ever played in a major championship without having played the week before?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, The Open every year.  But I practice.  I get here early.  I practice.  Augusta I don't play the week before.  But I'm practicing going in.  I usually go up, visit Augusta usually the week before.
And then at The Open I get here early enough where I can get a few days in and kind of figure out a rhythm and figure out where I'm at.
Q. You said just now you always played before a major.  You mean you practiced the week before?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Every time I've won, yeah.  Every time I've won I've played.
I just don't -- Augusta I play the week before, just usually doesn't fit my schedule.  And then coming over here I did it I think three years ago I played the week before.
I just like coming over early and getting adjusted and seeing the golf course a little bit.  The last couple I really haven't seen, besides St. Andrews.
Q. If someone told you at the start of the year that your major record would be 2-1-2, would that be more than you expected or less?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I don't know.  Man, I held myself to high expectations.  The whole reason I show up is to win.  That's what I'm trying to do.
Yeah, it's incredible.  But at the same time it's been quite disappointing, you know?  Finishing second sucks, it really does.  But you've just got to get over it and kind of realize that any time you put yourself in contention, you learn from it and move on.
I made a mistake there at 12 at Augusta.  It really wasn't that big of a mistake, it just kind of -- the wind direction, for four out of six guys to put the ball in the water, it just shows you that the wind -- everybody knows that the wind does whatever it wants on that hole and you just get unlucky.
And then at the U.S. Open I just got flat-out beat.  Sometimes that's going to happen.  You've just got to get over it and move on.
Q. Nine out of the last ten majors have been won by Americans, including four for you.  This could be the first time that the Americans go four for four.  What do you make of that recent trend?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I have no idea.  I have no idea.  There's so many good guys that come out of college, they're ready to play.  You saw Matt Wolff, all those guys, Viktor Hovland, I mean, these guys, they're all ready to play.  And I think -- I don't know if the younger generation -- I don't know why that is but these guys just come out and they're ready.
And as far as the Americans, I mean, I'm sure we've gone through a spell where it hasn't been that way.  Everything goes in trends, I think.  And I'm sure in a few years it will go the other way, that's just how it is.
Q. A lot is obviously made about Ricky's connections with Portrush, but I wonder if you could give us an evaluation of just how important he has been to you through this spell of such great success?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, he's been great.  He keeps it light.  He knows that -- not to talk about golf while we're out there.  He knows if I'm getting a little bit tense, maybe upset, angry, whatever it is, he can tell just by my walk.  He can tell, just body language and I think that's what makes a great caddie.  They can kind of tell you -- a lot of times he'll tell me to slow down, slow my walk.  If I get angry, my walk just gets a little bit quicker.
And then under pressure he knows exactly what to say at the right time, and that's what you want in a caddie.  And I wouldn't want anybody else on my bag, I know that.  He's been tremendous.  He's part of the reason why I've had the success I've had.  And I love the guy to death.  And looking forward to many years to come.
Q. Can you pinpoint sort of one little intervention maybe in one of your major victories just by way of an example?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Maybe I have to go back to Shinnecock I think was the one.  I think we were 7 over after maybe 25 holes or something like that.  And he turned to me and he just said, You're not far out of it.  I know it looks that way, but you're not far out of it, so get it going.  I kind of laughed at him and he -- for the first time he really got serious with me and was like, No, get it going.  You're not far out of it.
That kind of propelled me to have a good back nine and kind of put myself within striking distance on the weekend and then was lucky enough to win it.
Q. You've spoken before about playing with a chip on your shoulder and how you use that to your advantage.  Is the chip still there and if so, how do you keep a hold of that the more recognized you become for the successes that you've had on the golf course?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I think you always have to have a chip on your shoulder, no matter what it is.  Every great athlete and every major sport always has one.  You can vocalize it, you don't have to vocalize it.
Like I said, over the last year and a half, I just felt like if other guys had done what I had done it would be a bigger deal.  Now it doesn't matter to me.  I've got my own chip on my shoulder for what I'm trying to accomplish.  I've got my own goals I want to set, and that's where I find I guess my chip.  How many majors I want to win, how many wins, my own accomplishments.
Q. Do you feel you're getting the recognition now that you deserve?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I'm over that.  I'm over trying to get the recognition.  You either like me or you don't, that's life in general.  That's not anything I'm too concerned about at this moment.
I'm literally just focused on golf.  I want to play the best I can every week.  I want to play well in majors.  And whether it comes, great; and if it doesn't, I'm actually happy with my life right now.  I feel like I'm in a good spot and that's all that matters to me.
Q. I know you want to win for you, here, this week.  But given the kind of things you said about Ricky a few moments ago, is there a part of you that is playing for him here?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, absolutely.  There would be nothing cooler.  Put it this way, I don't think when he grew up that he ever thought there would be an Open Championship here.  And to top it off, I don't think he ever thought he'd be a part of it.  And to be caddying and to be able to win one here would be -- he'd be a legend, wouldn't he?  He already is.  But it would be cool to see him win.
Q. (Inaudible.)
BROOKS KOEPKA: I'm just focused.  I'm just worried about where to miss it.  And I think my focus goes up tenfold when I'm in a major, making sure everything is perfect, from grip to alignment to wind.  How comfortable I feel over it.  And that's what's important.
Physically I feel fine.  There is nothing wrong with me, which is nice.  I'm excited to play.  I feel this is what big players always rise to the big stages, and that's what I'm trying to do.
Q. You mentioned the creativity required on a links.  How much more multidimensional is your short game now compared to where it was a couple of years ago before working with Pete?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I thought it was good but it was terrible.  Pete will tell me on a one to ten it was a one.  I'm a four now, if you're wondering.
Pete's been probably one of the best things that's happened to me.  To take my short game from where it was and actually make it so I can be a little bit more aggressive, I like to be aggressive, and if I'm shortsighted now, I've got two or three shots that I can actually hit with two or three different clubs and still get it up and down.
And the imagination and everything that he's taught me over the last -- we've worked together for six years almost.  He's been a good mentor, too, really.  He understands -- the older generation of coaches is very different.  You look at like Butch and Pete, they just know what to say, how to build you up and get you ready.
It's not so much sometimes in the lead-up to a tournament but while you're there, trying to build the confidence right before you go, one of the last things they might say to you.  It depends.  I've heard it from Butch and I've heard it from Pete, it's just a little bit of added confidence walking to the first tee.  They know what to say, the right things to say.
It's fun to be around that generation of coaches.  They don't make them like them anymore, for sure.
Q. Couple of things.  What do you make of a guy like Furyk, who continues to be eligible for these majors at age 49 and hitting the ball short even by today's standards?
BROOKS KOEPKA: So impressive.
Q. Have you played with him much?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, yeah, I played with him a little bit.  It's fun.  He really understands his game.  And I think when you fully understand what you can and can't do is when you reach your maximum potential.  And he's done that.  He won't do anything -- he doesn't have the big miss.  He doesn't have really any weakness.  He's very solid all throughout the bag.
And to be, what did you say, 49, and still playing in these and still competing and in contention, that probably won't be me when I'm 49, I can promise you that.
Q. Secondly, how did you find Ricky?  And assuming you understood him, at what moment early on did you realize this might work out?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I think it was -- I just played The Open Championship, the one that Phil won, Muirfield.  And I was looking for a caddie because I was starting to transition more towards the States.  And there were a couple of names that kept popping up, and Ricky was the one that I kind of decided on.  It was him, and there was one other name.
And Claude was like, Why don't you call Ricky first, that might be your best option, go with Ricky.  I called him.  We had about a 30-minute phone conversation.  I liked the way he went about things.  He was kind of light.  He was joking on the phone.  And that's somebody I want, I want somebody that's not going to be so focused in all the time.  My personality, I laugh and joke on the golf course.  I know it doesn't look like it, but the camera is not on us all the time.  He's pretty laid back.
And then the PGA in 2013, I think was the first time he ever caddied for me.  I think the way he went about things was different than any caddie I'd ever had.  The confidence behind what he thought the club might be, the wind direction or what the yardage was, he was dead sure in it.  He just knew the right things to say, and I think that's what makes a great caddie and at the right time.
And playing there for four days was the first time I ever played with Tiger on Sunday.  He was able to kind of help me through that.  And the way we went about that I thought was super impressive.  And that's kind of when I was, like, All right, this is my guy.  And then hopefully he doesn't leave me.  But he's not going to leave me for a long time.
Q. The last couple of majors you've said that probably a limited number of players who can win and you feel you've got to beat.  I wonder if that number is higher or lower here and if you could explain why it would be one way or the other?
BROOKS KOEPKA: It's the same number every time.
Q. Even on a links course?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah.  I mean, unless you get bad weather.  Usually one of the waves, the afternoon wave usually gets -- there's a few guys that will make it out of that wave.  But if the conditions are the exact same for everybody, yeah, the number doesn't change.
Q. You've been asked a lot about Pete and his role in your game.  Tell us about the role played by Claude in the last few years with you.
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, Claude's like family to me.  He's been tremendous.  We started working together in 2012, end of 2012.  Claude's I think the best at what he does.  That's why he's a part of my team.  Hopefully he enjoys it as much as I do.
We only work on three different things in, what, seven years.  That's all we've ever done is three things.  He knows to keep it very simple with me.  I'm not going to be very mechanical.  I'm not going to think about my golf swing, especially out on the golf course.  I just see it and go.  He knows that and he understands exactly how I play.
It's nice to be able to walk practice rounds with him.  I get a bunch of time with him.  It's important to building that relationship and understanding that comfort level of what he can and can't say.
I told him at the PGA last year, I told him, Just don't say anything.  You can stand behind and nod your head.  And he was okay with that.
And then there's other times where at Augusta this year I putted terrible for Monday to Thursday in my warmup.  He said one little thing and, boom, off we went.
He's seen my golf swing, I can't tell you how many times, he knows just by the ball flight, just say one little thing and I'm off and running.
MIKE WOODCOCK: Thank you for coming in.  Best of luck for the week.
BROOKS KOEPKA: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT