TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 22, 2019
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How was the energy level today?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Oh, it's just not there.  I'm dead I'm fried.  I don't know.  My body is starting to ache, too.  It's a combo.  It's hard to focus.  I'm just pretty -- I don't think I'm over the PGA.   
 Q.  Really?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: And then to exert all your energy there last week, just fried.  I mean, I've caught myself yawning on the golf course.  I don't think I've ever yawned on a golf course before.   
 Q.  Was it the early tee time?  Yesterday seemed like you had a little more energy out there.  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I don't know.  I'm still doing my thing.  I don't know if it's just the early tee time, what it is.  I'm still going to the gym every day.  I think today might be a day off.  Everything is aching.  I feel like an old man today.   
 Q.  Is there a reason you continue to play tournaments as opposed to taking time off?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I already committed to this one, so stick with my commitments.  There is nothing you can do.  I can't judge how well I'm going to play the week before in a major, so it's tough.   
When you're planning your schedule you're not thinking you're going to compete in all three majors and still be fried from it.  It's fine.  I don't mind it.   
 Q.  What happened on 13?  (Indiscernible.)  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I mean, I knew it was going to be close.  I thought if I hit the perfect shot it could get there then it just nicked the lip.  Then I had a bad lie on 3; no chance of getting to the hole, but still tried it.   
That one, if I catch it perfectly it'll be on the green.  If not, it's a lip and maybe stay short of the water.   
I mean, you're ten back.  What's the point of laying up?   
 Q.  Will you be hanging around this afternoon and see how it plays out?  Think you're safe for tomorrow?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I think I so.  What, 69?  I don't know how many guys are out there.  I think I'm fine for tomorrow.  Just go back ask relax now.   
 Q.  Is this low energy that you're describing, has that been coming for you in regular events more so than majors, I guess?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: No.  It comes from the majors.  It comes from being dead from playing so well.  Mentally drained from playing in a major.  It happens to everybody.  If you're in contention you're going to be drained; if you're not in contention it's a lot easier.   
 Q.  Heading into this tournament every year you guys are coming off a tough stretch and coming from the Open.  When you make the decision to come here, do you take that into account, that it could be a grind to get through this tournament?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah.  I mean, last year winning and then coming here we knew it was a grind.  This year same thing.  This year was probably more of a mental grind.  I mean, I've committed to the event.  No point backing out.  I like this tournament.  It's a fun event to play.   
Just hard to judge weeks in advance how you're going to play.   
 Q.  The feeling on 18 when you miss the long putt but finally just wrap it up.  You said you were fighting through yawns.  What was the feeling when you sank the final putt and looking forward to tomorrow?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I mean, obviously it's nice to make it.  Be nice to put my feet up and just relax the rest of the day.  Probably go take a nap.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible.)  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I mean, I'll do the same thing I did today.  Just go with everything and see where it puts you, see how it goes.   
 Q.  How was playing with Chip today?  You were sort of in that spot Monday qualifying at one point in your career.  Did you offer any advice to him?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: No.  I never Monday qualified, so...   
Nice kid.  Good player.  I know he's played, what, five, four events out here.  Five events.  Good player; he'll figure it out.   
 Q.  Took the road less traveled to get here, I guess.  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, it's different.  Never know what's going to happen.  Hopefully gets his card and see him out here consistently.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT