U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2019
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Any consolation in runner-up finish?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I played great.  Nothing I could do.  Gary played a great four days.  That's what you've got to do if you want to win a U.S. Open, win a major championship and hats off to him.  Cool way to go out on 18, to make that bomb.  He deserves it, he's worked hard and I'm happy for him.
Q. You kind of said if you win great, if you don't you'll move on.  Will this thing sting for a while?
BROOKS KOEPKA: It doesn't sting.  I played great.  Nothing I could do.  I gave it my all.  I give it my all every time and sometimes, like this week -- it happened at Augusta -- it's not meant to be.  I played great.  I hit every shot that I wanted to.  And sometimes no matter how good your good is it isn't there.
Q. Given a two shot difference on 18, that putt, how significant was it?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Well, at the time it felt significant.  I felt like I had a good read on it.  And it just seemed to just dove right across the front.  Yeah, it just dove across the front.  I felt like it was one of those putts if I hit firm it was never going to break.  And I tried.  I hit a good putt it just dove right across the front.  Sometimes there's just nothing you can do.  Of course I'd love to have it back.  I thought it would be nice to put some pressure on him, one shot going into the last hole.  I had no idea what was going on, but I'm pleased with it.  Pleased with everything that happened.
Q. How about the experience, the challenge of trying to do what you wanted to do?  How great was the week?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, it was awesome to come this close to going three in a row.  It's incredible.  Anytime you can compete in a major is special and to have a chance to go back-to-back-to-back, that was pretty cool.  I didn't really think about it until I was done on 18 and realized how close I actually was to kind of, I guess, not making history, but kind of tying it, I guess you could say.  But it's a cool feeling to know.  Just wasn't meant to be this week.
Q. You were talking the other day about how cool it would be to hoist the silver in this venue.  And obviously you're not doing that but you were able to be in it right up to on the 18th green late on a Sunday and be part of the theater of Pebble Beach, the theater of U.S. Open.
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, it's cool.  It's an awesome theater.  Anytime that you can play in a place that's as beautiful as this, it's pretty neat.  You look out to the left and you've got the Pacific and you see all the fans on the right, it's a unique place.  All the history behind it and to play a major championship here is quite special.  Even you play the AT&T here it's a cool feeling.  And it's one I can't wait to get back to.
Q. Can you take us from here to Portrush?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I'm playing next week so I've got some time.
Q. Going into Portrush, have you played there before?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I've never been to Ireland.  But my caddie, it's his hometown, so I'm looking forward to it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT