U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2019
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Can you walk us through your second shot on 18?  What was the risk involved in trying to play that 3-wood?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, it was difficult.  The ball above your feet, you've got to cut it.  And obviously because it's -- the Pacific is right there on left, you're staring at it.  Really couldn't see anything even from where I was standing over the golf ball.  I could see the ocean there on the left.  I don't think I could have reached the green, but the layup was difficult enough.
I thought 3-iron I couldn't cut it enough or I might push it a little bit and hit the tree.  I thought 3-wood was kind of my only option to get it up there and cut it.  And unfortunately it got in the rough and underneath that tree where I really didn't have a shot.  At that point I'm just trying to make par.
Q. You felt the 3-wood was almost a safer choice in a way?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I did.  I felt like I could hang on to it, even if it goes in the right rough, chip is on to the middle, left-hand side of the green, take a two-putt and get out of here.  I didn't hit a good enough drive.  It's a difficult hole if you're not going to put it right in the middle of the fairway past that tree.
Q. You played so many difficult rounds, do you take more from the birdies you made today?
BROOKS KOEPKA: No bogeys, I think that's important.  I feel like eventually these birdies have to come.  I've hit so many good putts that just haven't gone in, No. 8, 17, about a foot to go, maybe less, they looked like they were right in the middle, and they just die off or bounce off, whatever you want to say.
But they're good putts, that's really all I can ask.  Really didn't have anything to work for today, other than 15, making a bomb there for par.  I'm pretty pleased with it.
Q. You said earlier this week if the other guys saw your name up there, they'd say not again.  Do you think they're saying that?
BROOKS KOEPKA: You can ask them.
Q. Your wins have sort of come from being up in front or maybe just behind, you have to chase a little bit maybe tomorrow, where does your aggression come?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Just keep doing what I'm doing.  Obviously whatever I'm doing is working.  I don't know how many back I'm going to be.  Trying to be 3 back going into the back nine, you never know from there, see what happens.  Make a couple of birdies, put some pressure on guys.
I don't know if I'd be second to last group, somewhere around there?  But it would be nice to get off to a good start, be 3-under through 7, somewhere around there, take advantage of those opening holes.  And you never know what's going to happen.
Q. What do you think your greatest advantage is tomorrow?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Just having been in the position I'm in.  Feels like almost every major right now.  Second at Augusta.  I felt like I've put myself in good chances where I'm very comfortable around that.  I don't need to go out and chase.  I don't need to do much.  Just kind of let it come to you.  And from there, if I win, great; if not, I felt I've given it all I had this week and it's just not my week.
Q. Given your track record at majors, how confident are you in your ability?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I feel good.  I feel like if I can just make a few putts, I feel like I could be right there, right next to Gary.  And it's been very close.  I'm pleased how I'm playing.  I'm pleased how I'm striking the ball.
And I feel as confident as ever right now.  It's probably the best ball-striking week I've had.  Pebble's greens are so small.  I think I only missed one green today, maybe two, I don't know, if I was in the fringe or something.  But to hit as many greens as I have the last two days, the ball-striking is right where I want it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT