U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2019
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BROOKS KOEPKA: Pretty pleased.  I'd take 69 before I started.  (Indiscernible) winds.  A little different than it was yesterday.  And I'm pleased with it.  I hit some good putts, some didn't go in, struck it beautifully.  And if I strike it like I did today and hole a few more putts, I should be just fine.   
 Q.  You don't see a lot of (indiscernible) playing a lot more difficult than it did yesterday.  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I thought the pin positions were a little -- a little bit more difficult than they were yesterday.  A lot of the holes, it was -- it happens a lot at Pebble, you play at the middle of the green, kind of hope (indiscernible).  Pin locations were a little bit more difficult.  I think this wind direction makes the golf course a little bit more difficult.  When you're playing 18 (indiscernible) and off the left, slightly difficult.  But I don't know (indiscernible).   
 Q.  You know what you're capable of doing (indiscernible) particularly the last two years (indiscernible) as close as you are, the level of confidence going into the weekend.  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I feel great.  I'm excited.  I've got a chance.  That's all you can ask for.  I just need to make a few putts.  Sometimes the hole just needs to open up.   
If I can get off to a good start tomorrow, have that feeling where the hole's opening up, it could be a fun round.  And I'll be honest with you, I struck it so poorly Monday and Wednesday.  I wasn't playing good.  And then it's been nice to kind of find some confidence, especially on the golf course.   
 Q.  Has that changed?  What changed Monday to Wednesday to Friday?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Just (indiscernible) striking it just a little thin, and then this range doesn't quite help.  It's going into and off the left.  It's in a direction I hate.  The turf on the range is a little firmer, a little tighter than it is on the golf course.   
And it's been easier to find my game actually on the golf course.  I feel like I can really be down on the ball, come in a little bit steeper than it is the range.  The range is -- I don't know what it is.  So I'm not going to hit balls today.   
 Q.  Does it feel much different than the last two Opens (indiscernible)?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I'm able to use a lot more irons, but if I'm hitting shorter clubs, then I should be able to put it in the fairway.  I did a good job of that today.  I hit 5-iron or 3-iron just as far as most guys hit their 3-wood (indiscernible) the same distance (indiscernible) less club (indiscernible)  advantage.  Just need to put it in the fairway.  On this golf course, you put it below the hole, it's where you need to be.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) people talk about this golf course, how iconic, especially any U.S. Open championship, do you ever think about you'd like to win here on the 18th hole?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I don't think there's a better place to win the U.S. Open.  Pebble is probably -- that finishing hole is the greatest hole in golf.  It's fun to play (indiscernible) things could happen on that hole.   
But it's -- you know, if you have the chance to hoist the trophy here, it's pretty special.  Talked to Graeme about it a little bit.  It'd probably be the coolest feeling you could have.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT