RBC CANADIAN OPEN
June 9, 2019
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. In the process, how do you feel about where you are right now?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I feel like my short game is where it needs to be.  Putting really well.  Chipping it really well.  Just I didn't hit fairways with the driver.  Everything was kind of leaking to the right.
So just figure out what is going on there.  Try to make some adjustments.  Didn't quite feel too comfortable on the golf course.
Q. Excited about heading to Pebble?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, yeah, be nice.  (Indiscernible - wind.)  Excited to play.  I mean, it's been three years since I've played there, so it's fun golf course to play.
I'll be ready for it.
Q. (Indiscernible.)
BROOKS KOEPKA: Doesn't matter what they do with it.  Everybody has to play the same golf course.
Q. So the driver, is that something with position, or said it earlier this week sometimes you're just not lined upright.
BROOKS KOEPKA: I don't know, man.  If I knew I would've fixed it.  I don't know.  Just didn't -- I don't know if it's a little bit of a swing thing.  I have no idea.
But probably taking the day off, reset, and see where we are.
Q. How long does it usually take you to fix something like that?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Five minutes.  Doesn't matter.  I can figure out how to get it in the fairway if I need to.  I just kept trying to maybe -- I've got this fairway finder shot and I didn't really hit it that much this week.  I was just going for the full shot trying to hit it straight.  Just go back.  Not a big deal.  I've hit it bad before.  You see guys miss cuts and then go on to win, so whatever.
Q. Can you talk about the crowd here this week and the crowd support for you overall?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, it's been good.  It's always a good turnout here.  I think it's an incredible sporting town with everything going on, especially right now with the Raptors, Formula 1 here, with the golf.  It's an exciting time to be in Toronto as you can see by the last two days how many people came out.  It's quite impressive.  Fun to play in front of them.
Q. Suffering a little bit?  Sounds like allergies.
BROOKS KOEPKA: I'll be all right.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT