RBC CANADIAN OPEN
June 7, 2019
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BROOKS KOEPKA: (In progress. )  Give myself a few more opportunities and felt like I did today.  Going to be a fun weekend.   
 Q.  Did you touch Brandt's bag?  What was it like to play wit someone playing so well?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: It was fun.  It was fun to watch him.  It's easy to feed off him coming into the back nine.  I mean, both him and JT played great rounds.  Was in danger of missing the cut there for a little bit, which was driving me nuts.  Just joined along with them on the birdie train.   
 Q.  I know fans are excited to see you here this weekend.  (Regarding scorecard numbers.)  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Today was I thought the complete opposite.  I thought I putted great and hit it terrible, so it's kind of just a weird thing.  Didn't hit any fairways so you're really not going to have any birdie chances.  But, I mean, I putted so good.  You know, whatever I fixed yesterday is working.  I like how I feel on the greens.  I feel very comfortable.  Just didn't hit it worth anything.   
 Q.  Do you think people underestimate how tough it is to keep your game at the top level for every round?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah.  I mean, we're going to have bad days.  Everybody has bad days at work.  Ours are just publicized in front of millions of people.  Along as the process is good, you know, like I said in the press conference, I don't care about the result.  It's all about the process.  I'm trying to start it online and finish it online.  Going back to Colonial last year.  I played as good as I could play and finished second.   
Sometimes your good just isn't good enough.   
 Q.  Are you working on anything for next week?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: No.  I don't work on anything for next week.  I play my game and see where it goes.  I feel very confident, comfortable, and I don't mess around with anything.   
 Q.  Was it easy to feed off Brandt going 10-under today, just to be in the same group and see how easy he was making it can look?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, it was impressive.  It was fun to watch.  It was exciting for sure.  He made it look really easy.  I didn't play a very good backside and it was easy to feed off their momentum on the front side, which definitely helped me.   
 Q.  What changed for you on the closing nine?  Anything in your game?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Made a few putts and just saw it going in.  Felt like the hole kind of opened up for me.  Saw the line a little bit better, which is what I've been kind of waiting for.  The back nine, my front, I just felt like I was hitting good putts; they weren't going in.  Sometimes that happens.   
Just didn't hit it very good today.  Go work on that.   
 Q.  How successful was the work on the putting green last night with your speed?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I don't know.  You tell me.  It was pretty good.  Yeah, I mean, I felt like it was just a few things in setup and just going back to fundamentals.  That was my whole train of thought, all fundamentals.  If I hit it bad, I guarantee today I didn't line up right.  Never felt comfortable.  Just struggling with it.   
Not playing for two weeks it's not going to be perfect, but as along as I can figure it out this afternoon it'll be fine for the weekend.   
 Q.  Seemed comfortable with the group.  On 8 talking some boxing, MMA, hockey, even a little bit of golf.  Does that make the day a little bit better?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I mean, I would say that's the three of us.  Getting to know Brandt really well over the Ryder Cup having him as my partner for a couple days.  Grown up with JT, so it's very easy to have conversations.  I don't think people realize we're not the talking about golf majority of the time we're out there.   
I don't know how long we played, five hours, maybe a little bit more.  We're not going to talk about golf the entire time.  It's fun to mess around a little bit and talk about other things.   
 Q.  Only talk hockey because you're in Canada, though.  
BROOKS KOEPKA: No, we are talking about everything.   
 Q.  Five birdies in the last seven.  How pleased with today's work?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I'm pleased with my back nine, the front nine.  My back wasn't very good.  I struck it awful today.  I don't know what is going on.  I think it just comes down fundamentals.  I'm either not lining up right or not setting up.  That's usually how it goes for me.  There is no problems with the swing.   
But I felt way, way more comfortable over the putter.  Seeing a few of them go in kind of opened up the hole for me.   
 Q.  What did you change?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Just changed a few things in the setup.  Same thing with putting.  My feet were a bit square and wasn't rotating my upper body.  I was getting a little handsy, and if you're going to get handsy, it's tough to really make it a consistent stroke.  We fixed that, I guess.   
 Q.  Couple weeks off after a wonderful PGA Championship.  How important was it to get another two rounds of competitive play here, particularly on these greens which are quite similar to Pebble?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, no, they are very similar, so it's nice to get two more rounds.  I felt like yesterday was a bit disappointing with the score.  Today I'm pretty pleased with what I got out of it.   
Another two days in competition I think will be nice, and just try to build some momentum going into the U.S. Open.   
 Q.  We're all looking forward to the U.S. Open, and everyone is talking about the incredible run.  What do you consider to be the biggest single factor in that success?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I don't change anything.  My focus is -- goes up tenfold.  I focus.  I don't change anything because it's a major championship.  I know everybody keeps asking what's the difference, but there really is none.  I just treat it just like every other golf tournament.  Just zoned in so much more and focused and really concentrating on making sure I'm fully committed.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT