RBC CANADIAN OPEN
June 6, 2019
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Brooks, last time we saw you you were getting reacquainted with the Wanamaker.  You've had some time off since.  Hit 16 out of 18 greens.  You're always very honest with your assessment.  What's the report card today?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I actually thought I played really well.  I struck it beautifully.  Just had one foul ball there on 10.  I don't know if that's a little bit of rust or whatever, but I thought I played great.   
Even the putts I hit I just couldn't adjust to the speed of the greens.  Left a few right in the middle.  Just was speed control on the greens.   
I like the way I was hitting the putts, driving the ball; iron play was really good.   
 Q.  When you have speed control issues what's the plan?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: It'll be nice to have fresh greens in the morning.  Just go work on this right now and see if there was something there.  Maybe a little decel or what it may be.   
I'm not really sure right now.  I felt good out there, but go on the putting green and figure it out.   
 Q.  Approach for tomorrow?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Just play like I did today.  Just make a few more birdies.  Gave myself some good chances and didn't capitalize on any of them.   
Had two birdies today.  Very easily could have been five or six.  Disappointed with that, but also at the same time pretty pleased.   
 Q.  Assessment of your round today, even par, 70.  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I played really well.  I struck it nicely.  I thought I was hitting my putts online; speed control was a little bit off.   
I had good chances.  Just didn't capitalize on them.  I was hitting the putts where I wanted to.  Just lacking a little bit of speed or carried too much speed.   
 Q.  You were the last guy on the range here last night hitting balls.  Any rust in the round?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: No, I thought it was good.  I've played this game for 20 some years.  It's not going to leave me overnight taking two weeks off.  I'll be fine.   
I was pleased, very happy.  I just think whether it be maybe a little decel in the stroke or whatever it might be, I just need to clean it up a little bit.   
 Q.  How important is hitting the fairway here?  You hit eight of them; obviously still hit 16 greens.  But just position on the greens when you're out of the rough, how penal is the rough?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, the rough is pretty bad.  If you're going to miss fairways you're going to have a hard time getting the ball close and really leaving yourself with a good opportunity to make birdie.   
This rough is pretty juicy if you're going to be in it.  Fairways are important.  Really it's a ball-striker's golf course.   
 Q.  Is there any part of your game you need to improve for tomorrow or Pebble next week?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I mean, speed control in the putts.  They were a little bit I guess maybe slower than they were yesterday I thought.  You know, we'll be out tomorrow, fresh greens.  I don't think it's going to be a problem.   
Just go to the putting green right now and work on some speed control.  They're dying right in front of the cup.  That's speed or they're just a little high with too much pace.  So that's all on me.  Just need to clean it up.   
 Q.  What's the overall thought on the course?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: It's good.  I like this golf course.  It's great.  It's a tough test.  I think it's -- how I judge a golf course is if you're playing great you can really shoot a good number, which you can.  7-under is a great score.   
But if you're just a little bit off you can shoot even par or a couple over.  I think it's a good golf course.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT