AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 12, 2019
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BROOKS KOEPKA: Sometimes you can just get beat.  That happened this week.  Played good.  I like my chances next week.  I feel like striking it really well, putting it really well, especially the putts coming down the stretch.  Nice to see some kind of -- something on the line.  It was important going into next week.   
 Q.  Talk about the 16th.  That was a huge save for you.  Is that what you're talking about, how close you were on some of the putts that didn't full?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Make the one on 15, 16 and then I hit good putts on 17 and 18 and didn't drop.  Sometimes that happens.  Nothing you can do about it.  But just like the way I'm playing, like the way everything feels right now.   
 Q.  Going to mention this, gives you a lot of confidence to defend your title next week?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah.  I'm playing good.  Tomorrow is probably a day off, looks like.  It will be just catch up on some rest and hopefully play like I did this week.   
 Q.  Fun to watch.  Thank you for your time weekend.  Best of luck defending your title.  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Thank you.   
 Q.  (inaudible).  What did you figure out there?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I don't know.  I made a couple putts.  Nothing to it.  You got to play good.  Made a nice putt there on the drivable one.  Still haven't figured out 7, which is disappointing.  Played good today.  No complaints.  Those guys are going to shoot 5, 6 and 7-under.  It's tough.  That's tough to beat, especially when you're that far back.   
 Q.  You mentioned getting into a rhythm.  How go you feel like you've done that this week?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I feel good.  I like the way I'm hitting it.  Controlling the ball flight and controlling spin, hitting it where I want to, missing it where I want to and putting it good.  Just some putts didn't fall which I'm okay with.  If I miss them I just want to hit a good stroke.   
 Q.  What do you think of the course?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I like the old one better.   
 Q.  What about it?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I played well there, I liked it.  You know, it was fun to play.  Lot more people.  But fans definitely turned out a little bit more.  It was definitely a fun place to play.   
 Q.  Talking about the fact you played well heading into a Major.  How encouraging is that?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I like the way I'm hitting and putting it.  I feel good.  Going into next week, it's a good feeling.  Hopefully get back and defend the title.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT