MASTERS TOURNAMENT
November 13, 2020
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  BROOKS KOEPKA: Long day, to say the least. Pretty sloppy. That's about the worst I could have played. Just very sloppy. 

Q. How did you find the conditions of the course had changed? 
BROOKS KOEPKA: Obviously it's dried out. You give it some time, the SubAir is working, so it's dried out. I think by tomorrow they should be really good, and Sunday hopefully‑‑ it obviously helped overnight. Greens sped up a little bit. They were a little bit slow yesterday late in the afternoon, but nice to have fresh greens this morning. 

Q. How much did those last three holes of your first round help propel the start of your second round? 
BROOKS KOEPKA: I just felt like I was waiting for it. All day I was hitting good shots, and like I said, just sloppy, just making stupid errors. I don't know, I guess I'm hanging around. Close enough. 

Q. When you hit your second shot on 3, how close did you think you were going to be? 
BROOKS KOEPKA: 12 feet maybe. I mean, that's why I don't aim at flags, right? Technically I was trying to hit it right of it, so‑‑ I pulled it. 

Q. Do you remember playing in a tournament without ropes? Are there any additional distractions when there are no people out here and you can see everything? 
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I'd say most of my junior tournaments I didn't have ropes. There weren't too many people. I've played this golf course a couple times on like the Sunday before, Saturday or Sunday before, so it looks obviously very similar to that with no ropes. 

Q. How do you feel about your position heading into the weekend? 
BROOKS KOEPKA: I mean, not very good. It could have been so much better. I was super sloppy. Just letting stupid mistakes‑‑ just need to clean those up for the weekend, and I'll be fine. 

Q. Faster conditions would help you? 
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I think so. When it's too wet like it was yesterday, a little bit this morning, even today, it's tough. I don't know what it is, you hit lower shots trying to get to the back pin, and for some reason they just‑‑ they're going to dig in, and they're not going to bounce up. You try not to spin it, but yet it still digs in a little bit and comes back. I played some good shots. If they would have put them all on the back of the greens it would be a very tough golf course. 
                                                                                                                   
Q. Are they more mental or physical errors do you feel like you're making? 
BROOKS KOEPKA: Maybe half and half. It's just‑‑ it is a little bit tougher sometimes with no fans to really kind of get in there and grind it out. I mean, I'm not going to quit, but just putting it in stupid places sometimes where it's like, that's the one spot you know you can't miss it, and I put it there. 

Q. Can you give an example? 
BROOKS KOEPKA: Like 10 today. You know you just hit it right of the pin and long is not going to hurt you there. It's middle of the green, and you come up short and obviously leave yourself with a tough chip, and the lies, everybody has trampled it down, it's wet, it's not exactly the place to be. Trying to think where else. Just got sloppy on the par‑3. I thought it was just going to roll through the fringe; it kind of bounced through it. And then missed the putt, which I thought was a good putt. It's one of those things where I just need to clean that stuff up, no bogeys. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT