AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 9, 2019
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  That's your first look at the front side two, three nights ago.  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah.  It's a bit different when you're playing it blind, kind don't know where you're going.  Relying a lot on the book.  I never look at the book.   
I'm pleased with the way I played.  What I did there on 6 or I forget the hole, 7, whatever hole it was, just hit a flyer from the middle of the fairway, and 9 didn't hit a good shot.   
Other than that, I struck the ball beautifully.   
 Q.  This is a totally different look than what you're going to see next week.  What's your plan here this week, what are you trying to get out of it?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Just feel good when I leave here on Sunday.  Driving it well and striking it really well.  I like where that's at.  It's been -- the last few weeks I've been even impressed with myself and how well I'm striking it; controlling it nice and then from there just try to feel like you see some putts go in the hole.  I think it's important to kind feel like the hole is opening up with a Major.   
 Q.  You played a lot of links golf, played over in Europe.  This is a totally different look here, week-in, week-out on the PGA TOUR.  Must get excited to kind of see something a little bit different.  
BROOKS KOEPKA: This is probably about as true of a links golf course you're going to find in America.  Obviously with the rain it doesn't play like it, being so soft, but this is a great course.   
 Q.  Brooks, I read you didn't get a lot of time on the golf course here in preparation but when you're putting as well as you're putting today it doesn't matter, does it?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Really doesn't.  Hitting it good and putting it good, it doesn't matter.  Played a lot of golf courses where I really haven't seen the golf course and gone to play.  You've got a yardage book.   
 Q.  These soft condition, do you feel like benefits you and benefited you this morning?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I don't know.  I felt like the first couple of holes the ball was just moving on the green.  I had lob wedge into the first hole and probably from where I pitched and where it ended up was probably about 15 yards.  Just kind of make that adjustment early in the morning.  Little dew on firm greens is definitely going to do that.  I do think we kind of got lucky.  We did get the better end of the draw.  I'm not complaining.   
 Q.  Supposed to be windier this afternoon.  Talking to you -- you closed with a bogey but it was a tough third shot, tough lie there.  Overall, really thrilled with where you're at in the 1st Round?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I'm happy.  I struck it well and putted well.  Just a little poor swing there in the fairway on 9 and the other bogey I hit a great shot.  I didn't think from 158 yards I was going to hit pitching wedge 165, fly it that far.  Little bit of a jumper there.  I played great.  I'm very pleased.   
 Q.  Brooks, solid opening round here at Trinity Forest.  Your first look at it in competitive mode.  What are your initial thoughts?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: It's a nice golf course.  It's probably -- this golf course is probably the most linksy (sic) golf course I've played in America.   
Unfortunately, a little wet.  Didn't play like a links golf course today.  Good tract.  Fun to play.   
 Q.  You talked about getting in 9 holes on Tuesday and Wednesday.  I'm sure you had to rearrange your preparation for this week.  What did you do ahead of today?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I didn't do anything yesterday.  Came here and obviously the tournament was rained out.  Went back to the hotel and just relaxed and been traveling the last few days, wouldn't mind a day off.   
Then come out here and didn't see the front-9 and so it was -- I'm pretty pleased the way I played.   
 Q.  Talk about getting into a rhythm the week before a Major.  What do you look for in competitive rounds in order to get that rhythm?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I just want to strike the ball well.  If I can strike it well and leave Sunday positive, feel like that hole is kind of opening up and make a few putts and everything should take care of itself.   
Obviously the goal is to win but if you don't, want to feel good leaving for next week.   
 Q.  What did you learn about this golf course, because it looks like we will have some more winds, attack mode places where you really want to capitalize on?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: This golf course, the fairways are very wide.  Very generous.  Hit a lot of drivers.  You can try to get it down there, use my length a little bit of an advantage there.  These greens are very large and very slopy.  They can put the pins in a bunch of different places and got to play the hole backwards.   
 Q.  What was the condition of the course, the first time you've been out there?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: The golf course is good.  Obviously it's very wet from all the rain we've had but I mean it set-up pretty well.  It's a good golf course, fun to play and it's definitely an interesting next three days.   
 Q.  You practiced only 9 holes Tuesday, right?  Is it front or back?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Played the back-9 Tuesday.   
 Q.  You didn't see the front-9?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: No, I didn't see it.  Today was the first time playing it.  Not that big of a deal.  I did it growing up, go play junior tournaments and see the golf course.  I got a yardage book.   
 Q.  Anything surprise you out there?  People talk about how different this course is from most Tour events.  Anything that you saw out there that --  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Obviously it's a links golf course.  Didn't play like it today being very soft.  I think the front-9 is very interesting.  You make a lot of birdies and get off to a good start.  The back-9 is obviously a little bit tougher.  You can really shoot a low number on the front.   
 Q.  You had the birdie putt on 18.  What about the four birdies in a row?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: It was nice to see one go in from some length.  Batted it from the middle of the fairway.  I was just laughing at that.  It was nice to kind make the tournament with some momentum, especially knowing that the front-9 you can put a good number.   
Maybe everybody on the leaderboard was on the front.  I was the only one on the back.   
 Q.  Out of you're curiosity, you're the only Top-10 player in the field.  Lot of guys are taking this week off before the PGA.  Why was it important for you to be out?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I like playing and building some rhythm.  I feel a little bit more comfortable going into a Major.  If I was home I probably wouldn't be practicing.  It's nice to hit some balls and hit some putts before going into a Major.   
 Q.  Talked about a course that fits their eye.  Can you gain any sense of that after just 18 holes if this course is maybe something you like or not like or --  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Not really.  I wouldn't say it suits my eye.  A lot of drivers, though.  It plays to my advantage.  It's not like it's a course where I've fallen in love with it.  It's definitely not that.   
I love the old course that they used to play a lot better that.  Was one of my favorite courses on Tour.  It's got a lot to live up to.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT