MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 14, 2019
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. A little bit of a frustrating day. You had it within your grasp, how do you sort of assess the day for you?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I played exactly how I wanted to play. Didn't really miss too many shots. Even the one on 12, I hit it exactly where I wanted to and the wind can kind of make you look stupid on that hole.   
So, proud of the way I played, the way I fought back, especially after that double, and tried to give him a run.   
   
 Q. How do you assess the day just in general, just with the crazy early morning start and the weather and that never really came in?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, well, I think it's about to right now. I mean, yeah, the wind was definitely swirling on the back nine, I thought, and then about my 15th hole it was pretty constant, which is made it a little bit easier out here because if it's light, it kind of comes from all directions.  
   
 Q. What was it like watching the leaderboard like in that back nine, it was changing so quickly, I mean did you even, did you just quit paying attention to it at some point?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, no, it's funny, on 15 I thought if I could get to 13‑ if I could make that eagle putt, 13‑ or 14‑ was going to win it. I mean, yeah, it changed hands about, what, five times? Everybody was kind of going up and then down, up‑and‑down again. So, yeah, I mean you just got to grind it out and 13‑ I guess did it.  
   
 Q. Did you get a sense of what Tiger was doing too, whether the loudness of the roars and what they, how they were reacting to him?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I never heard a Tiger roar that's not loud. Every time he does something, does something well, makes a birdie, whatever it might be, there's always a roar and I heard it at the PGA, you definitely hear it here and it's always funny too because when they post it on the boards up ahead you can always, you hear even more roars. So I enjoy that, it's fun, and it's fun to see and to compete against the best.  
   
 Q. You enjoy competing against Tiger. You got him last time he got you this time.   
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, no, I enjoy the battle, I enjoy everything that goes on with it, and he got the better of me this time and it's fun. I'm sure he's ecstatic about it, but hopefully there will be a few more.   
   
 Q. When he hit that shot at 16 you had stepped away from 17 tee. What were you thinking, because you could almost see the ball that he hit, correct?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I could see it. You knew it was going to be close when it hit. I thought it might go in for a second, it looked like it from my angle. But it's a good shot and that basically won him the Tournament right there.  
   
 Q. How do you assess the historical significance of the day?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: It's a lot. 15, that's incredible. 81 wins. It's a hell of a career.  
   
 Q. Just being part of it, being out there with it.   
BROOKS KOEPKA: I mean, it's incredible. I mean, the atmosphere around Tiger is mind blowing and to be inside the ropes and just kind of see it as another player is pretty cool and unique.   
   
 Q. What are your impressions about what he just did? Given his back, the comeback, this stage, the all encompassing thing, what are your impressions about what he just did?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Incredible. I mean, I think we all knew it was going to come, I mean I said it last year at the British, I thought he was ready, raring to go to win a major again and it only took him, what, two more tries. It's impressive, it's fun to watch and it's, as a fan, just of golf and of Tiger, it's very special.   
   
 Q. What do you think it means for golf?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: 18 is, I think a lot closer than people think. I would say that's probably what all fans, what we're thinking. That he's definitely back and 18's not far.   
   
 Q. When he got the two‑shot lead, did you know it was over? Like Tiger Woods doesn't blow these things, right?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Well, I thought I still had a chance on 17 and 18. Poulter, his putt kind of fooled me and you saw what Tiger's, Tiger's‑‑ you know it breaks, it's a new green and you're not sure if it does and it just hangs out there and theirs did ‑‑ well Poults' did and I watched it and just tried to play it straight and firm and mine decided to break.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT