MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 13, 2019
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. (No Microphone.)
BROOKS KOEPKA: It could have been. I felt like I played pretty well, but just some sloppy mistakes, a couple short missed putts, but overall played well. Even the putts I missed on the last three holes I thought I made, so rolling it well, just need to give it a little bit more pace. 

Q. Talk about how you grinded out there after a little shaky start. 
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I did, a bogey on 1's not the most exciting way to start your round, to say the least. But, yeah, hung in there with birdies at 2 and 3, so if you can play those holes in 1‑under, you'll be just fine. 

Q. Do you like the quicker turn around, not waiting until 2, 2:30 tomorrow to tee off?
BROOKS KOEPKA: It doesn't matter to me. It will be nice not having to wait all day, not having to wait six hours from when I'm up, so you can just get out there and go play. 

Q. Is there a comfort factor for you in this situation now, given how you played over the last two years going into contention in the final round of a major?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I think so, I'm pretty comfortable being in, being up there on the leaderboard in a major come Sunday. So I enjoy it, it's fun, getting definitely more comfortable with it as every major goes by. But I feel good and I look my chances tomorrow. 

Q. Nice to know you've done this coming from behind as well?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, that's always an added bonus but you just got to go out and play a clean 18 holes tomorrow and no mistakes and hopefully get off to a good start and let those boys see something.

Q. Is there one thing that you're focusing one more than anything else going into tomorrow?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Not really. I would love to get off to a fast start, that would be the one thing, take advantage of the holes that you need to take advantage of and be within three going into the back nine. 

Q. You talked this week a lot about focusing on your own game and not worry I can about what anyone else is doing, is that at all any more difficult given the names that are ahead of you on this leaderboard right now?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I could care less. I can't control anything that they're doing with ‑‑ whatever they're going to do, they're going to do. So just need to go out there and hopefully they can see something on the board where it'll make them a little nervous.

Q. What club did you hit into 15?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I hit an 8‑iron into 15. Yeah, it was a little three quarter 8‑iron.

Q. Can you think of a course that's more advantageous to have those short irons in your hand on the par‑5s and some of the par‑4s?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I mean I hit wedge into the last three holes, so that's always nice. Yeah, you can really take advantage of the par‑5s if you put a good drive into play and hopefully ‑‑ you need to make birdie there on these par‑5s and really give yourself a chance and then try to sneak in one or two on the par‑4s.

Q. Did you feel like coming in with all the weight loss stuff that this was just maybe another tournament where people weren't taking you seriously as a favorite at the start of the week?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I'm fine with my weight loss. I'm happy. I feel good. I mean, you guys act like I don't know what I'm doing. I knew I was going to be ready for this week, so, I don't get it. 

Q. What can you say about Tiger's performance?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I mean he's playing good, obviously he's near the top of the leaderboard come Sunday, so, yeah, he's obviously playing good, I haven't watched much of his rounds so I can't really comment on it.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT