THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 3, 2019
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You gave it a run; that's all you can do.
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I played good today.  Just left a couple putts short.  I told myself I wasn't going to do that, and it ended up costing me.  Yeah, I didn't hit the ball particularly well all week.  I putted very well, that's what I'm pleased about, coming into Augusta and THE PLAYERS, trending nicely, and that was the one thing that I felt like was missing.
Q. How did you manage the swirling wind out there because it really seemed to kick up about midway through.
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, it was difficult.  It was interesting.  You know, I think pretty much every hole out here has got water on it, so you're trying to avoid that and put it in the right spot and feel like you give yourself a chance.  Just trying to hit greens coming in.  Doesn't really matter where it's at, you just hit the green and two-putt it if you can, try to make it.
Q. You kept yourself in it all week.  You were there the whole weekend.  First time on Sunday that it was at stake coming down the stretch; how did that feel for you on this course, on your hometown course, finally being in one of these and really having a good chance?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, every tournament you're in contention, you're not concerned about anything else other than trying to get the job done.  It felt like that.  I came pretty close.  I just made a couple bad swings every day, and that's what really, really cost me.
Q. From the time you ended, what was your feeling?  Did you think you had a chance?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I had the same feeling I had at Valero when Kevin Chappell won.  It just wasn't going to be enough.  It is what it is.  He played well.  Hats off to him for getting the win.  You can't make mistakes like that out here or they're really going to cost you.
Q. You didn't have your best swing but you were still in contention.  How do you assess that?  Do you take some confidence that I don't have to be on my "A" game to be in contention?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, no, I know I don't need my "A" game to be in contention.  I feel like as long as I do one thing really well, whether it's iron play, putting like this week, I'm going to be in contention.  I'm going to give myself a chance at a win come Sunday with nine holes to go, and that's all you want to do.  I felt like I hit it kind of okay.  Iron play was definitely not up to par, but I drove it okay, too.  I hit some shots.  I mean, it's so difficult with this wind, too, to really find a rhythm, and especially if you're not quite striking it as well.
Q. A lot of guys never heard of Keith Mitchell until this week, a lot of fans.  How well do you know him, and just talk about his game?
BROOKS KOEPKA: I know he went to Georgia.  He was there when I was at Florida State and he was there, so I knew him a little bit in amateur golf and junior golf.  He's a good player, strikes it really well, powerful golf swing.  It's good for him.  Good to see him win.
Q. It comes down to two big names in the end, possibly even close to a playoff.  Again, for a tournament being in your hometown, how good do you feel that the way it turned out was pretty good for them and maybe will stop all the chatter?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, it was good for the fans.  They got what they wanted, a good tournament, two of the bigger names coming down the stretch and having a chance to win.  That's what this golf course will do, really bring out some of the best players.  Unfortunately it was just a little bit short, but hopefully the fans enjoyed that because it was fun.
Q. I know you're disappointed you didn't win, but obviously two birdies in the last three holes put you in position.  Did you think you did everything right there at the end?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, at the end I did a good job there.  I felt like I was very pleased with the way everything -- I played today.  I felt like I played solid enough.  Didn't strike it that well.  Made a couple mistakes, and on these easier holes you've really got to take advantage of them.  But the first three days kind of cost me with those double bogeys.
Q. I could feel the people rooting for you out there, and you could feel it too; that has to be a little disappointing but all in all has to make you feel good, too?
BROOKS KOEPKA: No, it's fun.  Got a bunch of friends, family out there, and it's always nice to have them out there watching, and they don't get a chance to come out very often, so it's nice to see them out there, nice to play in front of them and actually play well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT