THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 1, 2019
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I thought it was a pretty good day for you.  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I struck it fairly well.  I was kind of leaking everything a little bit to the right, even though I missed that one to the left.  Just probably got a little too aggressive and tried to bite too much off there.  I still thought it was a good shot, just might have drifted it, and it didn't really move.  Those things happen.  Just need to stay a little more patient with these pin placements.  The wind, it's going to be tough, and these par-3s are definitely championship par-3s.  You've got to hit the greens and find a way to make par.   
 Q.  The second shot at 18, you had an iron, then you went back and got the 3-wood and hit that big cut up against the breeze.  What's the thought process there because I thought that was a heck of a play.  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, no, it was.  It was a perfect number for a 3-iron.  I thought either that or just lay it up.  If you're going to hit 3-iron, there's no point unless you want to go to the back.  I thought 3-wood would at least get to the hole and maybe get a little bit longer there.  It kind of -- it stopped in an unfortunate spot.  But anywhere up by that green, you'd take it and take your chances.   
 Q.  You're in good shape for the weekend.  Looks like maybe single digits wins this thing.  You're right there.  You love these tough courses, don't you?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I do.  I love when it plays tough.  I love when the wind is up.  I love the firm greens and the Bermuda.  I'm excited to be back on some Bermuda.  It's a good spot for me, just need to clean a few things up this weekend and not hit any more balls in the water on the par-3s.   
 Q.  Almost every hole people are yelling at you, and you come over and hug people and shake hands with people.  Is that distracting because this is different than most tournaments you probably play in.  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, it is a bit different.  It's got a different feel for sure.  It doesn't bother me.  I've done that my whole career.  If I've got buddies out there, I'll go say hi to them.  It's fun.  You know, it makes their time out here a little bit more enjoyable, and you can't stay focused the entire five and a half hours you're out here.   
 Q.  Other than hitting in the water at the par-3 fifth, how would you assess your overall second round?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I thought I played pretty well.  Even there I thought I hit a good shot.  I probably just got too aggressive with the line.  I'm playing well, putting well, and that's what you've got to do out here.   
 Q.  The difference between the first round yesterday and how you played today, a little bit of wind seemed to pick up?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, it was definitely a little windier.  Yesterday was a little bit more gettable.  These greens have definitely firmed up, baked out, and it can be difficult with this wind and they've put the pins in some tough spots.  Par is not too bad.  It kind of reminds me of a major championship in some ways.   
 Q.  You're in a good position heading into the weekend.  Especially for moving day, what does the mentality have to be knowing that the past several years single digit red numbers is what wins?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, just stay patient, keep hitting these greens.  You've got to put the ball in play, give yourself some good looks.  There's about seven holes you really can take advantage of those, and you need to take advantage of those.  If you don't, it's going to be a long day.  The tougher holes you've just got to hang on for your life and take your par and move on.   
 Q.  When it comes to this point of the season, the hectic stretch we're in the middle of with THE PLAYERS coming up, what kinds of things are you thinking about focusing on?  Obviously you want to win this week, but are there things you want to make sure this is in a good spot because you know it's coming up?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I just want to feel comfortable.  I've obviously put myself in a good spot to have a chance to win.  I feel like it's been a while since I've done that.  Any time you can come out and put yourself in those positions, you're going to do just fine.  You come out here and put yourself in contention and see where you end up and learn from it, but I just want to feel comfortable because that's where I've struggled the last couple weeks, and it's coming along.  Being on Bermuda is definitely a big help.   
 Q.  What did you think of Rickie's (inaudible) from behind?  I'm sure guys were talking about it in the locker room.  
BROOKS KOEPKA: It was pretty funny.  You know, hey, that's what you've got to be able to do, laugh at yourself when you make a dumb mistake like that.  Props to him for having a laugh at it.   
 Q.  How close do you feel like you are to having a two- or three-shot lead in this thing?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Probably about two swings away.  Those par-3s, I've hit it in the water and cost myself at least four shots there.  Probably just being a little bit greedy and firing at the flag and trying to make something happen.  Getting off to a hot start today, I figured you might as well push it.  Sometimes you can if you're playing well.  I thought I hit actually a pretty good shot, it just never turned with the wind.   
 Q.  Is the course playing tougher?  The scores weren't quite what they were yesterday?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, the wind is up, so I'm not surprised.  The greens have definitely baked out a little bit more.  But it's a tough golf course when the wind is up.  I'm glad the rough is not up as much as it has been in years past.   
 Q.  What's the difference between -- obviously you're a lot more fresh than you normally would be; is that a benefit, or are you getting better as you go along?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I mean, it's nice to be back playing.  I usually play better my second week out on a four-week stretch here, so I'm looking forward to finding some rhythm, finding some momentum here to build it up for THE PLAYERS.   
 Q.  Do you notice a difference among the fans this week in terms of them recognizing you more or appreciating you voicing your opinions more?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I hope so.  I grew up here.  It's my hometown event.  I live here.  I hope that some of them would know who I am.   
 Q.  You talked about your struggles at this golf course, so how good does it feel to be in the mix right now?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: It feels good.  I've always liked this golf course.  It's just I've always had issues, wrist issue, and the year before just stuff going on.  Yeah, I'm definitely a different player than I was probably four years ago or whatever, three years ago, whenever the last time I played it.  I've definitely matured as a player.  I haven't played here as a major champion, so just have quite a bit of confidence there, too.   
 Q.  What's it like to have so many friends and family following you around today?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, it's nice.  It's nice to laugh and kind of joke with them.  I mean, it can get boring out there for five and a half hours, so you've just got to find some way to entertain yourself sometimes, and if you're by the ropes and you know that they're there, it's nice to kind of chat with them for a minute.   
 Q.  When scores are not as low, does that give you more of a comfort zone?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I hope so.  I said a couple interviews earlier that I thought it was becoming more like a major championship.  It's definitely very difficult.  The afternoon you know is going to be difficult.  It's going to blow.  These greens can't take too much -- get too much firmer.  They're in great shape.  I mean, I'm very pleased with the way they've held up so far.  I mean, it's nice to be on these greens for sure.   
 Q.  With Justin and Rickie winning here, two other local guys, do you guys compete much amongst each other when you're around here?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Like when we're home?  I don't play with anybody when I'm home.  I barely practice when I'm home, so I'm not going to go see them.  I might go to dinner with them or pop over to their house, but I'm not practicing or playing with them.   
 Q.  The putt at 18 hit something right after it left your club.  Does that surprise you?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: No, I mean, I could see it.  It was right next to the sprinkler head.  You could see that there was definitely a little elevation change.  It was kind of sloped down, sloped up.  You knew it was going to bump, you just hope that it rides through it and doesn't bump up.  But I think I hit something, too, on the second one.  But it is what it is, and I'm pleased with the round.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT