PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2020
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









JOHN DEVER:   Good afternoon.  Welcome back to the 2020 PGA Championship here at TPC Harding Park.  Pleased to be joined by Brooks Koepka, who posted a final round 74 today, finishes the championship at 3-under par.
Brooks, not your best day.  When did you kind of sense that things were adrift and trying to get it back and it just didn't happen?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Probably when I got to the lie on 7.  Every time I hit it in the rough today I got probably the worst lie I've had all week.  You know, if you're going to put it in the rough out here, it's pretty tough.  The green speeds this weekend I never really got down.  I felt like the putting green was a little bit quicker.  And just never quite got putts to the hole to make anything.  So you don't do that, it's going to be tough.
Q. A shot at history today.  With so many guys on the board, it's tough to go backwards.  Was that deflating on the front?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, to be honest, the bogey on 2 was not good.
But to make the turn at 4-over was disappointing, to say the least.  You know, you knew you had to be under par, at least one, to have a good chance on the back side.
I mean, it's my first bad round in a while in a major.  You know, I was just there to cheer Paul on.  That was it.  Just try to help him get it in the house and see how well he could finish, because I had put myself out of it already.
You know, hey, wasn't meant to be.  Three in a row, you're not really supposed to do two in a row looking at history, but that's all right.  Got two more the rest of the season and we'll figure it out from there.
Q. What was it like for to you watch Paul today make that run?
BROOKS KOEPKA:   It was good.  He struck it really well.  He putted really well.  I felt like he probably could have had two or three more, a couple putts; if he hit them, I think they would have been in.  I think that's the adjustment you've got to make from the practice putting green here to going out and playing.  They are a little bit slower out on the golf course than they are on the putting green.
But he played good.  Hats off to him.  It was fun to watch.
JOHN DEVER:   Your quick impression on Collin, two clear going to 18, your impressions of him as a player.
BROOKS KOEPKA:   He's a really good player.  He's shown it over -- has it been a year?
Q. 30 pro starts.
BROOKS KOEPKA:   I was going to say, it can't be that long.  He's a hell of a player.  He's really good.  You see these guys coming out of college now, they are ready to win, and prime example.  I think of that group, him, Matt Wolff, Viktor Hovland, it's impressive what they do.  They come out of college and they're ready to play out here.  Hat's off to him.
For this week, it's impressive.  This golf course, you really have to golf your ball and make some putts.  He was obviously the best at that, and that's impressive.  You know, to win a major this young in your career, he's got a lot of upside.
JOHN DEVER:   You were terrific with us for two years as a two-time defending champion.  We appreciate all your time and effort with us and we'll see you down the line soon enough.
JOHN DEVER:   Good afternoon.  Welcome back to the 2020 PGA Championship here at TPC Harding Park.  Pleased to be joined by






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT