ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 18, 2019
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How satisfied are you?  Watching you this week, it felt like you couldn't be any worse than where you are right now, 9-under?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: That's kind of how it feels.  I felt like I've played well and struck it pretty much flawless, maybe one or two bad swings the whole week.  It's one of those weeks I've hit a lot of good putts but just burned the edges.  That happens.  Hopefully it opens up tomorrow.   
 Q.  You're a Major Champion and you've been the best player in the world; is there a satisfaction from having weeks like you've had so far and still being in contention going into the final round?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: There absolutely is.  It's one of those weeks where I'm kind of waiting for something to happen.  You just have to stay patient.  I feel like get on a hot run, 8- or 9-under.  Hopefully that's tomorrow.  Just keep striking it well and hitting good putts and hopefully they drop.   
 Q.  What's the importance of trying to get back to the No. 1 spot?  Is that something that follows you around all the time, or do you just focus on the job at hand?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I just focus on the job at hand, but it does mean a lot to me.  I think that's such a cool honour, to be the best player in the world.  I don't take it lightly.  It's something that, every day, I'm trying to get better and improve on that and I'd like to gain that lead.   
But you know, with Rosey, he's playing so well.  I've just got to keep doing what I'm doing and hopefully squeak out a few W's.   
 Q.  Your story is cool, an American coming over to play on The European Tour.  That's a great story, but this is where it started for you.  You came through The Challenge Tour.  I played with you on The Challenge Tour, and to see where you've gone to now, you're in great shape, flying with your career.  Looking forward, though, to trying to win this tournament tomorrow, how do you go about the strategy for this golf course, in particular?  We know you're capable of shooting low numbers.  Can you really push it on this golf course?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: If you're in the fairway, you can.  That's going to be the big thing tomorrow.  I felt like hit a lot of good drives today that just missed the fairway, and this golf course, it's important to find the fairway and that way I can give myself a chance tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT