ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 17, 2019
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Second round 70; just give us your thoughts on that.
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I played okay.  It wasn't anything to brag about, but I putted well.  I felt like I chipped it pretty good.  I had a chip-in there.  Had a bad drive on 9 which kind of cost me, and then 18, I don't know what happened with the bounce I had.  We actually thought it had a chance to be in the fairway, so I don't know what happened there, and I'm disappointed to finish with bogey.
Q. One of your stated goals is to win more regular events to go with the majors you've won already, and you said you need to be more patient and maybe not press as hard.  Was that the case today?  You had 12 holes through level par and then the birdies came.  Did you just have to be patient?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah.  I mean, it's only the second round, so there's no point in pressing.  I don't see any reason there.  You just kind of can't win it until Sunday, so I've just got to be patient and just let things come.
Q. Tomorrow it's scheduled to be windy, particularly in the afternoon.  Does that give you a better chance to make up ground on the leaders?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, absolutely.  I think it plays right into my hands.  I think usually the tougher it is, the better I do.  That's all the majors.
Q. Someone was asking you about the goals that you set last year and how many you achieved.  You said about half of them, and you were most pleased with the multiple victories and most frustrated by the one missed cut in Canada because you set yourself the task of not missing a single cut.  What sort of goals have you set for this year?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Well, I don't tell anybody my goals, but mostly the same thing, what I've got.  Hopefully keep a clean card, no missed cuts.  Everybody always tells me I'm not very consistent, but then I look at the cuts, and I think it's been 38 with one missed cut.  Any time you're hanging around on the weekend, you're going to be just fine.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT