ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 16, 2019
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  5-under par, no bogeys on the par.  What's your assessment of your play today?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, very solid.  I felt like I played well, struck it well, made those kind of key par putts coming down on the back nine.  The actual front nine wasn't the best; it was a little sloppy.  But I'll just clean it up for tomorrow.   
 Q.  Playing conditions today?  They look absolutely perfect.  Is that the way it went?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: It was perfect.  The wind is barely blowing, perfect weather.  The golf course is in great shape.  These fairways are quite tight.  You hit it in the rough and who knows what's going to happen.  The rough is getting a little juicy, especially in the morning when it's a little wet.   
 Q.  You've only been here once before, back in 2014.  Does the course feel a little different to that occasion?  Does it feel a little tighter?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: No, I remember it being pretty tight, tough golf course.  Kind of reminds me of like a major championship.  Like I've said all week, it's very demanding.  You need to be able to put the ball in the right positions if you want to score.   
 Q.  You had a wonderful year last year, winning a couple major championships, but to be named Player of the Year at the end of the year by your peers, how proud did that make you?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, that's special.  Any time you can impress the guys you're playing with week in and week out and they voted me Player of the Year, that's a cool honour, something I'll always cherish probably for the rest of my career and hopefully rack up a few more.   
 Q.  The last time you were here five years ago you opened up with a 77.  67 today; things seemed to suit you much better around there today.  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, probably a little different player than I was back five years ago, but I like this golf course.  I like the way it sets up.  I feel like it's very visually intimidating.  You've got to strike the ball well.  I mean, these greens are so good that anything from inside 10 feet, you put it on line, it's going to go in.   
 Q.  Was there much of an adjustment today because it was quite cool when you went out first thing this morning and obviously the ball flight as we know here can change almost on an hourly basis?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, no problem there.  I practiced early in the mornings the last few days, so I knew what it was going to do, and then an afternoon pro-am yesterday, so I got it under control, figured out how far the ball is going to fly, with the morning tee times and the afternoon, so that wasn't an issue today.   
 Q.  After such a fantastic season last year, how important is it for you to get off to a good start in the bigger events like these Rolex series to build some momentum for the season?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I just need to keep doing what I'm doing.  I feel like my game is in a good spot, and I feel like if I can build on everything I did last year, I'll be just fine.  You know, the majors are obviously very important, but I want to try to win a few more regular events and kind of establish myself as probably one of the better players.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT