ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 6, 2018
Brooks Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Your thoughts on that?
BROOKS KOEPKA: A little disappointing, actually.  I felt like I played good enough to shoot 60,61.  Gave away some easy shots.  Had a wedge in there and drove it into a bunker out here, which you can't do.  Just missed some shots where I probably shouldn't have, and then, you know, 17, to 3-putt that was a little bit disappointing.
You know, 7-under, you have to take the positives out of it and move on.  Would have been a lot nicer to be two back instead of being five.
Q. Bounced back straightaway on 18?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, makes it a little bit better, easier to swallow.  Could have been a lot better, but you've just got to move on and go shoot 9-, 10-under tomorrow.  You never know what can happen when you post a score and see where it goes from there.
Q. How has it been playing the last three days with your brother and your caddie?
BROOKS KOEPKA: It was awesome.  It was nice.  My family's here, his family's here, and to be playing with him is probably the coolest experience I could have had.  Finishing up on St. Andrews with him as unique.  He didn't finish the way he would have liked, hitting one out on 18 there, but I had a blast.
He's so much fun to be around.  That's part of the reason why he's my caddie and it's a long relationship so far, and I'm sure it will stay that way.
Q. What's the plan?
BROOKS KOEPKA: Just keep doing what we're doing.  You've got to drive it in the fairway and if not, you have to avoid all the bunkers.  If you're going to take on some shots, you have to take it on and hit it left.  All depends on the pin locations.  The pin, you have to kind of work your way back into the pin and know where the pin is off the tee and position it there.  That's the easiest way.
I love this place.  This place is so much fun.  I feel like every year we come here, we just blitz Saturday, Sunday, and we struggle on Kingsbarns and Carnoustie.  I just enjoy St. Andrews so much.  It's such a fun golf course to play.  Different pin locations, different winds.  Every time, it's so different and that's what's unique about it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT