NCAA WOMEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: LOUISVILLE
March 21, 2019
Sam Fuehring
Arica Carter
Asia Durr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Couple for each one of you.  This is your final appearance in here as seniors.  Thoughts going into this final appearance?  
SAM FUEHRING: What are my thoughts just knowing that this could possibly be my last game if we don't win?  Trying not to let that happen, just to know that it's the end of your career and to give it your all no matter what.   
ASIA DURR: Yeah, to go off what Sam said, I would pretty much say the same thing.  It's our last one, last college game, so just have fun, focus on winning.  You'll never be able to go back to college ball, so just to have fun.   
ARICA CARTER: Yeah, I agree with what they said.  Just come out and play our hardest and do everything that we can to go as far as we can go and have fun.   
Like she said, this is our last go-round, and it's not worth it if you don't have fun.  Just come out and do everything we can to win and have fun.   
 Q.  Arica, looking back on the game you all played with Jeff watching from the sidelines, what do you remember from that game, and how much do you feel like that prepared you all for tomorrow?  
ARICA CARTER: I was just so happy he wasn't coaching us.  Get a break from him.  (Laughing.)  We have a great staff so it's not a big difference.  Our staff has been doing this for years and they're prepared for this at any time.  It wasn't a big difference for me.   
I was more focused on the game and what we had to do to win the game.   
 Q.  To follow up, with him not being there, sometimes still kind of feel his presence even though he's not yelling at you?  Do you remember still feeling, Yeah, he's watching us, he's going to have something to say, as coaches do?  
ARICA CARTER: Honestly, I wasn't thinking about him.  I was focused on the game.  I was focused on the moment and what was happening in the moment.  You can't try to think about what's going on outside of basketball.  We were playing game, so I wasn't really thinking about Coach Walz.   
 Q.  For Sam and Arica, you all have been kind of a subject of attention this last week with the injuries.  Let us know how you're feeling, participation today, how things are going in your recoveries.  
SAM FUEHRING: I feel great.  The training staff and the coaching staff have been very supportive and have been trying to get me to 100% again, and they have.  I feel like I'm 95; tomorrow it'll be even better.   
Today is going to be my third day practicing, full practice.  But, yeah, they did a great job with treating me and getting me back healthy.   
ARICA CARTER: I feel good as well.  Getting better and better every day with practice.  So, yeah, I'm just hopeful to play on Friday and excited to see what's to come.   
 Q.  For Asia, how do you try to get your teammates more involved and maybe take a couple extra shots, maybe drawing some of the attention away from them?  
ASIA DURR: You just try to make plays, reads, how the defense is guarding you, whether they throw two or three people at me.  That means one of my teammates are open, so I just try to make the right play, right read.  That's just all I try to do.   
 Q.  For Asia again, I know you haven't had a lot of time to prepare for Robert Morris.  Is this pretty much just a case of you all going out and playing Louisville basketball?  
ASIA DURR: Yeah, we try to do that regardless of who we're playing or matched up against.  So we have our hands full.  They're a great team.  They know how to shoot the ball well.  We have to come out and get stops and try to turn those stops into scores.   
 Q.  For Sam and Arica, you already know what I'm going to ask, don't you?  Who was Robert Morris, the person?  
SAM FUEHRING: Robert Morris is a guy...   
ARICA CARTER: Rich guy, very rich, but died penniless.  He's a wealthy man who bought weapons for the Americans for the American revolution.   
 Q.  Well done.  Thank you.  This is for any of the players.  What is your impression of Robert Morris, most especially their defense?  
ASIA DURR: They play strong in the gap.  They play man.  They might play zone, but they play a whole lot of man.  So, I mean, they're a great team.  They're well coached.  They play strongly in the gap.   
SAM FUEHRING: I feel like they got -- to go off what Asia said, they have layers, too.  So like if they do get blown by, there is someone else there.  Yeah, they play hard.   
ARICA CARTER: Yeah, from watching the film it looks like they play very hard, which is exciting.  That's what you want to play against, so, yeah.   
 Q.  Is there any team that you guys have played earlier in this year that is similar to Robert Morris at all?  
SAM FUEHRING: We kind of compared it to -- well, I compared it to Syracuse with their offense.  They like to drive and then kick.   
But not like...   
ARICA CARTER: I think it's multiple teams that we've played this year that are similar to Robert Morris, that play hard, play scrappy, and rotate and make you have to get off the ball quick.  I think there has been multiple times we played teams that are similar to Robert Morris.  I can't think specifically who they are, but I remember playing teams like that.   
SAM FUEHRING: Yeah, it's like a mixture.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT