NL DIVISION SERIES: DODGERS v CARDINALS
October 10, 2004
Dave Duncan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Did Woody throw in between?  How did he feel since that last start?
 
DAVE DUNCAN:  Yes, he did work in between starts on his normal day.  Actually, he had an extra day of rest before he worked in the bullpen.  He would be pitching on his normal amount of rest.  So he had a good workout.  He felt good in the first game he pitched physically.  I think he was happy with the way he threw the ball.  He was looking forward to Game 5, if necessary.  
 
Q.  How do you prepare a pitcher when there is that much time between starts? 
 
DAVE DUNCAN:  It's been a while since he's pitched.  I think he pitched on the 29th of September.  Since then we've maintained a normal routine of getting him into the bullpen.  We've had some, actually I think, really good sessions.  We've had the opportunity to work hard, where he's gotten himself ready and actually simulated innings of pitching against Dodger hitters.  I think it's been very beneficial to him as far as being prepared for this game, and I think this time of year when you can get a little extra rest when you've started as many games as he has started, it can work in his favor.  
 
Q.  When you go around the second time in a series, do you change your approach or do you face the hitters the same way?
 
DAVE DUNCAN:  Well, you look at the game, the previous game.  If he executed his plan and the hitter took advantage of him, then you're going to try to make an adjustment.  But I think you basically try to take the pitcher's strengths and apply them to the hitter's weakness as much as you can.  And if you can execute the pitches that you're trying to execute, then you hopefully have a positive result.  I don't think the plan varies a whole lot.  Generally, individually, you may make some adjustments with certain hitters.  
 
Q.  Would Woody start the next game regardless of whether you win or lose tonight?
 
DAVE DUNCAN:  Well, we're talking about that.  More than likely if we do not play tomorrow, more than likely Woody would be the No. 1 guy.  But we haven't decided that for sure.  
 
Q.  What thoughts would go into the decision? 
 
DAVE DUNCAN:  Well, I think what you look at is the guy that starts the first game pitches Game 5.  The guy that starts the third game pitches Game 7.  Which is more important?  Do you project out that the series is going to be a long series and there is going to be a Game 7?  You have to determine which pitcher you want on the mound for Game 7.  
 
Q.  Tony was saying that having lost last night, it gave Jeff Suppan a chance to pitch in post-season, which hopefully for you guys he will get another chance.  How do you prepare a guy for his first chance?  Does tonight help him for future post-seasons?
 
DAVE DUNCAN:  Well, we would certainly have liked to have won last night's game.  The plus is that Suppan gets to pitch.  Should we go on in post-season play, we're going to need Jeff Suppan.  So this will be a plus for him being able to pitch today.  
 
Q.  Would you talk about Woody's first start.  He obviously had a lot of support from the offense early on. 
 
DAVE DUNCAN:  Usually when Woody's good, he's keeping the ball down, which he did in that game for the most part.  His breaking ball is an important pitch for him.  When he's throwing it for strikes and throwing it in any counts that he wants to, that really makes his fast ball and cutter a more effective pitch.  With Woody, he's a control pitcher.  His good games come when he has good command of all of his pitches.  For the most part, I thought he did in Game 1.  
 
Q.  Given what happened to Woody when he saw Cincinnati several times in a short period, is there any concern about him seeing the same team in a short period?
 
DAVE DUNCAN:  Well, I think that it can probably benefit both the pitcher and the hitter.  It depends on -- really when that happens, it really depends on whether or not the pitcher is executing pitches.  He's probably going to get away with fewer mistakes because of the familiarity.  But if he's making his pitches, it's as much of an advantage to him as it is to the hitter.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT