NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 26, 2015
Andrew Loupe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Nice finish there for a 68.  Talk about what you were able to do well today.  
ANDREW LOUPE: Is that a Syracuse shirt right there?   
 Q.  Yes.  
ANDREW LOUPE: You guys beat us?   
 Q.  34-24.  It was closer than you would've thought.  
ANDREW LOUPE: We're not going to talk about that.  What I did well today.  I thought I was pretty well rounded today.  I haven't done stats or anything, but felt like I drove the ball pretty well.   
This golf course is really hard, especially with the wind kind of picking up and then laying down.  Kind of tough to judge sometimes.  The greens are very difficult as well.   
But I thought I drove it well.  I just felt solid.  I don't think anything stood out.  I thought that I stuck to a game plan that was solid.  I thought Wayne did a great job.   
Got some birdie looks.  Could have made a few more.  Felt great to make the last two.  Just really that one hiccup on 16 was not a very good wedge shot, but 16 was playing about as tough as I've seen 16 play.   
 Q.  You played here two years ago.  Did you play here at all in college?  
ANDREW LOUPE: No. I just played a U.S. Open Sectionals here when I was like 19, I think.  I played the last two years, so third year in a row for me.   
 Q.  Have you learned anything through the first couple times playing that you've been able to put into practice better this week about how to play the course?  
ANDREW LOUPE: Yes.  Some of it's lines off the tee, but some of it is kind of knowing what the ball is going to do once it hits the ground.  A lot of holes -- some holes are a little different than others.   
Like for whatever reason, the ball doesn't roll on 3 very much.  Maybe it's back into the grain or something.  I would like to say you pick up on things each and every time you play.  Just you cannot hit it over the green here.  Can't happen.   
So try to minimize that and do the best to keep the ball on this side of it.  Downhill putts are pretty ferocious, so...   
 Q.  With the finals winding down and being in a decent position but need to keep making some money, does that creep in your mind at all on the course, or are you able to block that out?  
ANDREW LOUPE: I thought I did a good job of blocking that out today.  Really, I know where am.  I'm not faking it like I don't think about.  I'm just trying to embrace it and take it on.  You know, it's a huge moment for me.  It's not like I'm going to say it's not.  Just trying to take it on.   
 Q.  When you say you know where you are, where are you, and what do you think about your position at this point?  How do you block that out?  
ANDREW LOUPE: I know that I just have to be solid.  I don't have to be great.  I don't think I was great today, but I thought I was very solid.   
It's tough to be great on this golf course.  It's tough to put a great score together because you're going to have to make some really difficult putts to do that.   
But I know that if I stick to what I'm doing and my same thought process and focus during the moment of truth, in the swing, then it's going to be good enough.  I just to have stick to that.   
 Q.  Do you look at the leaderboard?  Do you watch and pay attention or not?  
ANDREW LOUPE: I do some.  I mean, they're there and huge and loud.  Really tough to avoid.  They're put in spots where it's easy to see on purpose.   
I do.  I'm not shying away from anything right now.  Just going to do my best to be myself as much as possible and take it on.   
 Q.  Talk about the last two birdies, what clubs you hit and distances.  
ANDREW LOUPE: 17, 186 front; 202 to the hole; in off the left.  Usually that's like a smooth fade 5, but you can't go long out here, so I just hit one of those 6 irons and had a great line on it.  Came just below the hole ten or twelve feet in a spot where I could be aggressive with the putter.  Uphill right to left, and I knocked it in.   
18 I hit it just through the fairway.  Had 104 yards and just tried to kind of -- like I said before, I know that second shot plays short, especially coming out of the rough.  The ball is going to release a ton.  Just get something to kind of chase back there.  Can't hit it over that green.   
Put a good read on it I guess and rolled one in.   
 Q.  How far?  
ANDREW LOUPE: Maybe 20, 25, somewhere in there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT