NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 11, 2014
Andrew Loupe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  ANDREW LOUPE:   In general, I think I just kept it in play for most of the day.   I think I had to chip out maybe once or felt like I was on the fairway a lot.   That golf course is not easy.   I have a great deal of respect for it.   Some of those par‑4s back into the wind are brutal, and I guess I was able to keep it in front of me, and caught a little draw today, which I think helps in the wind for the most part.   But I was able to roll a few in today as well.   A few mid‑range jumpers, and one that was actually pretty long on No. 3; it was probably about 30 feet.   I had a ton of looks.   All I can hope and try to do is continue to give myself a ton of looks the rest of the week.  
   
 Q.   More looks than you've been accustomed to?   
ANDREW LOUPE:   Lately.   I also capitalized on a few more.   I thought I putted great in the spring and early summer.   I felt like I've been rolling it well of late, but it's just like it had a lid on it today, and I wasn't able to get in there a few times.  
   
 Q.   Why do you think there are so many low scores out there today?   
ANDREW LOUPE:   I think that we're playing with a bunch of good golfers, because that golf course is not easy, and that was a pretty drastic climate change coming off of last week.   That heat index had to be close to a hundred last week, and you get out the car today and it was like, man, I don't have enough clothes on.   
But it looked like Fathauer played phenomenal.   I couldn't believe it when I saw it.   I guess when you get out there you do have some wedges in your hands that you can take advantage of.   Those par‑3s are not easy.   He did have two downwind par‑5s on the fairway.   He'd be able to knock it on.   It's not terribly low, you know?   But I guess the third lowest score is 5‑under.   It looks like that majority is from 1‑under to a couple over.   That's about what I expected.   
But I just think there were a lot of good players.   The greens are starting to firm up, and if the wind stays the way it is and it's going to be cold tomorrow morning, it's not like it's going to get any easier.  
   
 Q.   The rain made it a little softer?   
ANDREW LOUPE:   Maybe, but they started to firm up this afternoon.   I mean, I don't know.   I guess I took advantage of my leg a little bit, and I was finally able to do that because I was hitting out of the fairway, and that allowed me to have some looks.   But I mean, that's a really, really good, difficult golf course.   I think my lowest round coming into today was about 74 or 75.  
   
 Q.   So are you surprised by your score?   
ANDREW LOUPE:   I wouldn't say surprised.   I'm just very pleased.   I really loved that one on the last.  
   
 Q.   What happened on that last?   
ANDREW LOUPE:   Probably a little combo, a slight misread and slight tug, maybe, but I hit two good shots to get it there.   18's not an easy hole.   Walking out of here with 4, you're not devastated, but it depends on how you look at it.  
   
 Q.   You saw a hole in one today?   
ANDREW LOUPE:   I did.   I hit a great shot in there like a foot, and it looked like mine was going in, and then he hit his in the air, and it was like wow, it looks great.   It hit the ground and I said go in and it just went in.   That was cool.   Byron played solid as well.   He's a really nice guy, fun to play with, so is Bronson.   Good little group we've got going on.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like going back to tomorrow morning, are you anticipating the conditions to be similar?   
ANDREW LOUPE:   Last time I checked the wind the amount was similar.   The direction was slightly different, but it's just going to be a little colder.   I think it's going to be like 57.  
   
 Q.   Do you like playing in the cooler temperatures than last week?   
ANDREW LOUPE:   It's better than a hundred.   Dripping in sweat last week, yeah.   It's been hot for a long time, so I was excited about that.  
   
 Q.   With Jacksonville, it's probably going to be hot too?  
ANDREW LOUPE:   Yeah, I would imagine.   Enjoy it while we've got it.  
   
 Q.   You don't like dripping sweat being from Louisiana?   
ANDREW LOUPE:   Just because I live down there doesn't mean I like it (laughing).   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT