VALERO TEXAS OPEN
March 30, 2014
Andrew Loupe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Interesting experience for you being in this final group in this situation.   Tell me how you thought you would handle it, particularly as all this issues around your pace of play came up today.   
ANDREW LOUPE:   Well, I thought I played faster today.   I had a chance to win the golf tournament with nine holes to play, I didn't hole the putts on the back nine that I needed to hole.   
I had a shot, a good look on 15, great look on 17, and middle of the fairway with an iron in on 18 and it just didn't work out.   
   
 Q.   You had a bad time, how did ‑‑ did that affect you?  
ANDREW LOUPE:   Well, the wind's blowing a lot and it's gusting and it's a very difficult course and I wasn't the only person backing off shots out there.   I think he said I had 54 seconds out of 50.   So I'm not worried about that at all.   We were fine.   
   
 Q.   Did it affect you?   Did it throw you off during the round?  
ANDREW LOUPE:   I don't know.   Probably not.   I just think it was a tough golf course on a tough day and it's blowing 20 out of the southeast, that's not easy out there.   Those greens are rock hard.   I hung in there, I battled back after a rough front nine and I learned a lot.   I enjoyed playing with Steve and Matt and I'm just looking forward to next week.  
   
 Q.   The fact that it was clear that your preshot routine was faster today, but with all that said, how is it trying to change that on the fly when you're also trying to win a golf tournament?  
ANDREW LOUPE:   Well, I don't think I always played as deliberate as I did yesterday.   I just think that I kind of got in my own way a little bit.   Maybe trying too hard a little bit on some shots.   Today I just freed it up a little bit.   
I hung in there, man.   I thought I played okay.   Definitely wasn't my best day, but all in all I learned a lot and it is my best finish so far, so I'm just going in the right direction, I'm just going to keep going in the right direction.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT