SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 8, 2014
Andrew Loupe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Just a couple quick questions.   Just talk a little bit about being here at the Sony Open.   How many times have you played this course this week? 
ANDREW LOUPE:   You know, I played 18 Monday and I played 18 again yesterday.   Great course.   I think it's a great track, relatively narrow fairways.   The wind was howling yesterday, so I probably saw it at about its toughest, which was good. 
The fairways are really running out.   It doesn't look like they've gotten much rain, which is also good.   It's playing firm and fast, not a whole lot of drivers for me.   You get to utilize that 2‑iron a good bit.   I've been kind of working on that stinger shot, so hopefully I can put that in play. 
It's just great to be here and compete.

Q.   What can fans expect as they watch you this year?   Describe your game if you can.   Big bomber? 
ANDREW LOUPE:   I hit it a long way, I do.   I have a lot of speed, but if there's two areas that you want to improve on, somebody says, what did he improve on, it would be driving and putting.   I've been working hard on putting, I've been working hard on getting the ball in the fairway a little bit more, but yes, I do have a lot of speed.

Q.   Talk a little bit about your season last year on the Web.com TOUR and how that Tour helped you develop. 
ANDREW LOUPE:   I learned a lot.   It was good to have a full season somewhere where you can play every week you want to play and learn week to week and get in a rhythm.   But last year was a little bit inconsistent for me.   I wasn't overly excited about my play, but I was very proud of how I hung in there and kept believing and never lost belief and picked my game up when I needed to, when it was right down to the wire there in Omaha and then again in Jacksonville. 
I just think that as a younger player, it's important when you do get it going the wrong way a little bit a couple weeks in a row to not get lost and continue to believe in yourself so you can bounce back with a couple good weeks in a row. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT