JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
August 12, 2016
Andrew Loupe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How did it go with the long delay?
ANDREW LOUPE: You know, it was okay.  I don't think the delay bothered me, but I wasn't quite as sharp as yesterday.  Wasn't quite as crisp.  I didn't hole the putts I did yesterday, but sometimes that happens.  I thought I hit a lot of good ones.  You know, I would have loved to have had that last one, but it was still solid, 1-under today, not too bad.  Nothing to hang my head about.  But I would have liked a few more, but I'm just looking forward to playing tomorrow.
Q. Talk about the course with all the rain we got in the last 24 hours; how is it playing?
ANDREW LOUPE: It took a lot of rain, and the grounds crew has done a fabulous job to get it to where it is right now.  Hats off to them, the superintendent and his crew.  It's still in great shape.  You know, it's obviously really wet.  It's playing a little longer.  But I think it's fair.  I think it was really good.  There was a lot of sweating going on out there, but it was good.  It's in good shape.
Q. For the regular golf fan that might not see you have to go out and make a short putt in the morning and then turn over into a next round, how does that all go down in your head and the approach that you take?
ANDREW LOUPE: You know, I knew the putt that I had, obviously, marking it last night, and I chose to wait on it just to get some smooth greens, fresh greens in the morning.  Not a lot changed.  It is a little strange starting a day off with a putt, but it was good to go ahead and roll that one in.  That was nice.  Got to do a better job on No. 17.  That one has gotten me both days.  But overall, you know, I'm pleased.
Q. Going into the weekend, still with a good score up there and still chasing a number that's reachable?
ANDREW LOUPE: Yeah, three back right now.  A lot of guys still to play, but I'm right there, three back.  36 holes, you know, and we're only halfway through this deal.  A lot of golf to be played.  Yes, I am very much so looking forward to the weekend.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT