JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
August 12, 2016
Andrew Loupe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about that par on 18 there.
ANDREW LOUPE: It's a tough hole.  I'm really not thinking about the past or the future.  I'm just trying to stay exactly where I am.  Tugged the tee shot a little bit, but that bunker is not too bad and was able to hit a good shot out of there.  It looked real good in the air and just went a little long, but good speed on the putt.
Q. How do you deal with this roller coaster ride of playing, stopping, playing, now playing a whole bunch?
ANDREW LOUPE: You just keep moving forward.  I'm not going to back down from anything.  Golf is hard.  That's just one round.  I'm trying to stay as level as I possibly can, keep doing the things that got me here, go through my practice routine, a couple drills that I like to do, and just tee it up.
Q. Is it different because you normally have chance to maybe smile at a 64?  You don't have a chance to blink.
ANDREW LOUPE: It's a little different, but it's not the first time.  We've had several rain delays this year, especially through the spring.  I want to say it was like seven of eight events there for a minute, but then the weather has been good the past few weeks, but it's nothing different.  I grew up in this in Baton Rouge.  It rains every afternoon this time of year.
Q. How wet was it out there?
ANDREW LOUPE: It's pretty wet, but I think the grounds crew is doing a great job.  They're doing everything they can.  The course still looks great.  It just took a ton of rain.
Q. Really well done out there in wet conditions.  I know you're disappointed with the bogey at 17, but eight birdies is a lot.
ANDREW LOUPE: It was good.  I was pleased.  Bogey at 17, yeah, that's a tough pin, a little wet into-the-grain pitch and I didn't quite execute it.  Still had a good look at par, I just didn't knock it in.  It wasn't that bad of a stroke really, just underplayed the read.  But I think I tee off in about 40 minutes, so I just get to keep going, which is good.  I want to keep going.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT