JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
August 11, 2016
Andrew Loupe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How dark was it out there?  
ANDREW LOUPE: It was puttable, but Marino decided not to putt and I'm on the same line as him, and the green looked a little choppy and there was a lot of footsteps and moisture, so I figured it was in my best interest to just start with a putt tomorrow morning on some smooth greens.   
 Q.  How much do you have left on that one?  
ANDREW LOUPE: Seven, eight feet.   
 Q.  It was a heck of a day I gather.  
ANDREW LOUPE: Yeah.   
 Q.  What's the key to this round?  
ANDREW LOUPE: It was fun.  I thought Wayne did a really good job caddying.  Just kind of kept me going, kept me confident.  Felt like I hit a good bit of fairways.  I was able to -- haven't had a lot of time to think back, but I would imagine that my proximity was decent.  I think I had some good looks, and I was able to knock a few in.   
 Q.  With as long as the delay went on for you, are you glad you got in as many holes as you did today?  
ANDREW LOUPE: Yes.  I was fortunate.  I haven't looked at the forecast after the round for tomorrow, but before the round it didn't look great.  I don't know if that's changed.  I obviously can't control that.  But I was pleased with how many we got in being able to almost get in 15 holes teeing off at 4:20 p.m.  It's about what I thought, maybe one hole more than I thought, but I was just glad that we were able to get out there and play some golf.   
 Q.  Could you have stopped after 14 and you decided to keep going?  
ANDREW LOUPE: They blew the horn after I hit my tee shot.  It was something I wanted to do anyway.  I just tugged it.  I'm not going to hit every one like I want to and got it back in play, wedged it up there, and we'll see if I can roll it in tomorrow.   
 Q.  You were really playing some terrific golf last week.  
ANDREW LOUPE: Yes, thank you.  I was playing well.  I feel like I'm making some progress.  It didn't shake out the way I wanted it to, but you know what, I'm here to go at it again.  I'm not going to lay down.  Golf is hard, and 14 and a half holes is not very much.  There's 72 of them.  I'm not going to get caught up in all that.  I think I got caught up a little bit last week.  I'm just not going to do it this week.  I'm just going to keep my head down and keep playing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT