FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 28, 2016
Andrew Loupe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 6-under 66 with bookend eagles, that's quite the day.
ANDREW LOUPE: Quite the day.  That doesn't happen very often.  Fortunately, I was just able to hit the fairway on both those par-5s and it was shorter over there on the North Course so I had irons in my hand and I was able to hit a couple good ones in there.
Q. The thickness and the depth of the rough, is that the key to scoring out here, just keeping it in the fairway?
ANDREW LOUPE: I guess.  I feel like I can drive it better than that.  I was fortunate to get a couple decent lies, but sometimes you just don't.  The rough is real, it's long, and the farther you miss the fairway, it seems that it comes more into the grain, which is tough.  But it's tough out there.  I got the easy side, I got the harder side tomorrow, and I'm looking forward to the challenge.
Q. You're a WEB.COM TOUR alumni, have you had much experience around here at Torrey Pines?
ANDREW LOUPE: Two years ago, my rookie year, I came over here about five weeks ago and played.  So I had a few rounds under my belt out here.  It's a great golf course.  Great piece of property.  I enjoy playing it.
Q. How have you been feeling about your game as a whole?
ANDREW LOUPE: I feel good.  I played well last week.  I thought I played well through the fall, kind of got it turned around late last summer and just been hitting the ball a little better.  Seeing a couple go in is nice as well.
Q. Two eagles on your round today.  Talk about your round as a whole?
ANDREW LOUPE: It was great to get off to a start like that.  Just hit a real great drive and I had 7-iron in, actually.  I got a little bit of a good hop in there and was able to roll it in.
But as a whole, two 3-putts, besides that, I thought it was really solid.  I hit my irons pretty well for the most part.  When you drive it well on the North Course, you can flip some of those par-4s around and have some wedges in and I think that's what I was able to do.
Q. You like starting on the North Course instead of the South Course?
ANDREW LOUPE: I did today.
(Laughter.)
I don't have a ton of experience out here.  I played here two years ago, started on the South Course, missed the cut, so, yeah, I think I do like starting on the North Course.  It's going to be a challenge tomorrow.  I know that.
I haven't looked at a leaderboard or anything, it's so early, but I'm looking forward to it.  There's a lot of tough par-4s out there and nothing is given to you on the South Course, that's for sure.
Q. Tell us about your round and your attitude right now?
ANDREW LOUPE: Yeah, got off to a great start, that's always nice for that to happen.  Hit one down the middle on 1 and I was able to have 7-iron in there and hit it in there about 15 feet, rolled it in.  Really tough 3-putt on 2.  But after that, I settled in and started to hit a lot of quality iron shots, I guess.  It seemed like I had a good bit of looks.
The greens are tough, there's a lot of pitch in them, especially on the North Course.  A lot of breaking putts.  I thought Wayne and I did a pretty good job of staying patient and threw one in there at the last and was able to eagle the last.
Q. Starting on the North Course everybody says you got to get the low score there.  And you were able to accomplish that.  So how does that make you feel going into tomorrow?
ANDREW LOUPE: It's a good start.  It's just a start.  I got the North Course under my belt, I got South Course tomorrow.  That's a bear.  There's a lot of rough out there, a lot of long par-4s, a lot of long everything, but I'm looking forward to the challenge.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT