FRYS.COM OPEN
October 17, 2015
Andrew Loupe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Ten birdies, one bogey, 9-under par 36.  You tie the course record.  Obviously that cup looked like a bathtub out there today.
ANDREW LOUPE: Had a few of them drop.  Just all around good day.  Kept the ball in front of me in the fairway for the most part.
Thought I did a pretty good job on the par-3s.  Just getting off to a start like that, haven't gotten off to a start like that in a while.  It was fun to just run out there a little bit.
Then finished well.  I really want to make a 4 on 18.  I knew that that would be the course record.  Never shot 62 before in competition, so...
But it was a fabulous day.  Had a great time.  Just ready to go root my Tigers on to a victory.
Q. You come in with some momentum; you win one the Web.  Com Tour finals events.  You've been out here before on tour, back to the Web Tour.  What do you take from your first year out here now?
ANDREW LOUPE: I just think overall I feel like I'm more ready.  I needed to get a win in those finals.  That was huge, just to close out a golf tournament and all that.
I just think that just overall I'm a little sharper mentally, a little bit more experience.
Along with that I think the aspects of my game are just solid right now.
Q. More important thing is how do you like the Tigers tonight?
ANDREW LOUPE: I love 'em.  In Baton Rouge, night game, Death Valley.  Come on.
Q. You finished round three with a 9-under 6three; tied the course record.  You got off to such a hot start birdieing your first five holes.  What was going through your mind?
ANDREW LOUPE: Just keep the pedal to the metal.  That's all I was trying to do.  Everything just kind of felt a little bit locked in in my warmup.
I hit one in out there fairway on 1 and just rolled a couple in.  Haven't gotten off to a start like that in a while.  Thought we did a pretty good job of keeping it relatively loose.  Was just able to keep it going and finish well.
Q. You won just a few weeks ago on the Web.com Tour to secure your card and get status for the PGA TOUR this season.  What kind of confidence did that give you?
ANDREW LOUPE: You know, it's been a while since I've won.  That was huge.  I just think that I really need to do close one out just to have that confidence the next time around on this level, just to know that I have it in me and have a little validation.
Q. How comfortable do you feel in this position heading into Sunday?  You put yourself in a great spot.
ANDREW LOUPE: You know, it doesn't look like I'll be leading.  I'll be trailing.  So just got to go get 'em.  Get after it again.
Brendan is playing great.  He shot 9-under the first round.  You can make birdies out here, but if you're a shade off you can make bogeys easily.
Just got to keep the pedal down, keep it free, and keep it going.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT