NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: KINGS v DEVILS
June 10, 2012
Bryce Salvador
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Bryce Salvador. 

Q.   Think you put some doubt in L.A.'s mind?
BRYCE SALVADOR:   You'll have to ask them that.   I think what we're doing is really trying to build upon a momentum, control what we can control. 
We know it's going to be a tough game tomorrow.   Right now there's pressure on both teams when we're playing for the Cup.   I think it's going to be a great game tomorrow. 

Q.   How have you been able to neutralize their key offensive guys?
BRYCE SALVADOR:   I think they've had a lot of great chances.   I think just what you're seeing is a little balancing out.   In the first three games, we didn't get some of the bounces we would have liked, and they were able to bury them.   The last couple games, seems like we're getting some bounces. 
I don't think either team is really neutralizing anybody.   It's the way momentum is going right now.   Hopefully it can keep going for ourselves. 

Q.   (Question about creating history.) 
BRYCE SALVADOR:   I don't know if it's necessarily history.   At the end of the day, it's a best‑of‑seven series.   Doesn't really matter.   It's just on the better day who is going to win the series, the Stanley Cup.   That's what we're looking at.   We're looking at one day at a time.   We're not looking to do anything other than win the Stanley Cup. 
Whatever comes along with it, comes along with it.   We have to realize there's a lot of hockey left.   Tomorrow's going to be a tough game.   We know they're going to come out.   Their fans are going to be highly involved.   I think we're focused on tomorrow's game. 

Q.   (Question about being down 3‑0.) 
BRYCE SALVADOR:   Quite honestly, never really focused on that.   Like I said, we've had all types of adversity this whole year.   We just really wanted to stick to it and just hope that the tide would turn for us, not get down upon ourselves, not point fingers, put blame on anybody being down 3‑0. 
It was just a matter of ‑‑ even in some of those games, we felt we could have one of those, Game1 or Game2.   I bet you if you asked them, they probably felt like they could have won the one in our barn last game because they had some great chances. 
I think it's important from our standpoint not to overanalyze the situation.   We've got to keep winning games.   There's two games left and we've got to win them both.   That's our focus, not how we go out there or anything that's happened in the past. 

Q.   Pete said last time you were in here you got the sense they were preparing for a party.   That was motivation.   Did you feel that way?
BRYCE SALVADOR:   Like I said, when you're up 3‑0, you're in that situation, you have no choice.   You have no choice?   Well, you're in a situation where you have distractions, some thoughts.   Like I said, I think everyone, in some part of your mind, you envision winning the Stanley Cup.   As it comes down to the wire, those thoughts come into your head more and more. 
Those distractions are just part of being in the finals. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT