NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: KINGS v DEVILS
June 4, 2012
Bryce Salvador
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Bryce Salvador. 

Q.   When a team is not winning, loses a game, so often there are changes.   Have you sensed any need to make any changes anywhere in the lineup? 
BRYCE SALVADOR:   Well, first, good morning (smiling). 
Well, no.   I think we're just looking at it as they've been two great games, close games, went into overtime.   We've had our equal opportunity to win both those games.   Obviously we didn't.   But we see that we obviously got ourselves a little bit of a challenge here. 
But we're not discouraged by any means, because we could have easily split those games or won those games.   Now we're just looking at today's game. 

Q.   When was the last time you did a press briefing at 8:10 in the morning?
BRYCE SALVADOR:   Never (smiling). 

Q.   Can you talk about the difference of coming here, doing things to prepare for a 5:00 start, how you build that into what has been a set routine for you this spring?
BRYCE SALVADOR:   Well, I think just the 8:00 games, 5:00 games, they're different than in our schedule.   It's one of those things where actually not even really focusing on it too much, to be honest.   I think the atmosphere of being in the finals kind of takes care of all the scheduling, all that. 
So it hasn't really been that big of a deal. 

Q.   Pete said he thought Ilya Kovalchuk and Zach Parise were on the cusp of bursting out in the series.   When guys like that are going, how much does that ease pressure on the rest of you guys?
BRYCE SALVADOR:   I think when you have arguably a couple of the best players in the league on your team, any time they're running hot, it's definitely an advantage, you definitely feed off it. 
I think what we've seen this whole playoffs is that it's been a whole collective effort from our team, we're getting big efforts from everybody. 
Obviously it's nice when you have your star players that are carrying the workload.   But what you're seeing is it's been a team effort with us, guys like Gionta, Carter, those guys have been scoring big goals for us, Zubrus and stuff. 
We haven't really been relying too much on one particular guy or two guys.   I think, other than Marty, making sure he stops the puck, everybody is really trying to chip in how they best can. 

Q.   The Kings have managed to score first in both games in your building, eliminate the crowd to a certain degree.   They're going to have Wayne Gretzky participate in something tonight.   Imagine there's going to be some pent‑up energy from their crowd.   How important is it for you to try to score first, level that playing field?
BRYCE SALVADOR:   Well, I think this is going to be an unbelievable atmosphere.   I think we've done a good job of not overanalyzing or putting too much pressure on any situation. 
I think the first two games, we didn't score the first goal, but we had chances to win.   So I think what we've done a good job this whole playoffs, like I said, is not getting too high or too low, being prepared for whatever. 
If we get the first goal, that's great.   If we don't, there's a lot of hockey left.   I think that's one of our themes, one of our focus points, is more of not worrying about the outcome, just worrying about each shift, just controlling what you can. 

Q.   Have you been able to enjoy this or there's too much focus on what you have to do?
BRYCE SALVADOR:   Well, I think there's bits, there's certain days where you sit back and enjoy it.   Obviously everyone said it's been a great experience.   But I think when you're this close, you like to really sit down and focus on the task at hand and try to seize the moment. 
I think there will always be time to reflect back, especially nowadays with all the media, the blogs, the Twitters, Facebooks.   There will be plenty of time to go back and look at pictures, read stories.   It will be well‑documented. 
Knowing that, it's very easy to just focus on playing the game because anything you think you may miss, you'll be able to find it. 

Q.   Is this one of the enjoyable times right now?
BRYCE SALVADOR:   8:00 in the morning, yes, it is (laughter). 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, Bryce. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT