U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 13, 2019
Rory Sabbatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Tell us about your round today.  Talk about the hole-in-one?  
RORY SABBATINI: Well, for the most of the round I felt like I played decently today.  Unfortunately I made too many mental mistakes out there.  And so I'm a little ticked off at myself.  But all in all, I didn't shoot myself in the foot too badly.   
 Q.  12 was a really tough hole, but you made a 1.  What's the club, and take us through that?  
RORY SABBATINI: I can't remember what the exact number was, but I just hit as high a 5-iron as I could up in the air with a high cut.  Landed, one bounce into the hole.  That's what I was told.  I'm not sure exactly.  I'm not that tall, so I can't really see over the bunker that well.   
But, no, I just hit it absolutely perfect, and we hit it close to the previous hole.  I told my caddie, we've been having a lot of close calls, and one is going to go in sooner or later, but wasn't expecting that.   
 Q.  Is that your first hole-in-one in a major?  
RORY SABBATINI: Yes, unless you count the Masters par-3 contest.   
 Q.  What was the last hole-in-one you had in competition?  
RORY SABBATINI: Wow, I honestly can't remember.  I know I had one at Hartford.  I've had one since Hartford, but I can't remember where that was.   
 Q.  The golf course today, talk about that a little bit.  Did that seem good, fair?  
RORY SABBATINI: No, they did a fantastic job with the setup of the golf course.  The golf course is very fair.  They've given us opportunities where if you hit off line, you're going to get some breaks out there, and you're going to get some shots that you're able to advance the ball, but they've made it very hard to be precise with it.   
So I think all in all it's actually not as hard as what I was expecting them to set it up, especially with the rough condition.  But they graduated it.  It was fair.  And yet there are times, especially the closer you get to the green, the rough is definitely higher and a little thicker.  So it's almost like -- it's becoming more penal the closer you get, which is what you'd expect.   
 Q.  You get to play the morning, hopefully that's better scoring conditions?  
RORY SABBATINI: Exactly.  Hopefully it will stay relatively calm in the morning.  The wind kicked up this afternoon.  It was making things a little tougher out there.   
All in all the scores are still out there.  The guys are still going to shoot the numbers.  The setup, it's out there.  If you hit good shots and you stay within yourself and you make some putts, anything is possible.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT