WGC BARBADOS WORLD CUP
December 7, 2006
Rory Sabbatini
Richard Sterne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
 RORY SABBATINI: I had to smack him around a little bit at the  turn to tell him to wake up, and that did it.  Once I did that, he started playing properly.  
 RICHARD STERNE: This is the first time we played  together. Went well, good start for the  day and it was fairly relaxing.   
  
  Q.  The conditions, it was kind of an up-and-down weather day, can you talk  about the rain?  
 RICHARD STERNE: It's what you expect for Barbados, I must say. It wasn't easy. There was a few tough holes out there that we  negotiated them pretty well. We didn't  make any bogeys which is a good thing in better-ball. Just handle it and we moved on. It was a good day.   
 RORY SABBATINI: When the weather is, you know, as suspect as  it was, it's just of key importance to make sure that you're both always in a  position where you can -- if something happens, your partner is there, you can  make par, whatever. You always just both  want to have opportunities, and we did that very well today. We kept the ball in play. For the most part, I think 16 of 18 holes, we  both had a good opportunity at birdie.   
 So that definitely overcomes the  weather and helps that situation.   
  
  Q.  Don't you think growing up in South Africa you're used to some kind of wild  weather, different kinds of weather?  
 RORY SABBATINI: Well, I grew up in the coast and he grew up  in Pretoria.  So he's in Denver and I'm in San Diego.   
 RICHARD STERNE: We pretty much have good weather where we  come from. Not like this.   
 RORY SABBATINI: Obviously I dealt a little bit more with the  wind. Today, definitely it was a tough  day. It was a mentally-fatiguing  day. You just got to battle through it  and keep yourself close to the leaders and give yourself opportunity rest of  the week.   
  
  Q.  Do you guys feel under pressure at all to keep South Africa's good record going, three wins in  the last ten years, which I think is the best of any team in the World Cup?   
 RORY SABBATINI: When Trevor and I won, we were the B  Team. I think this year, we're what, the  D Team or maybe the E Team.   
 I think it speaks a lot for South  African golf; the fact that, you know, you're missing four of your  highest-ranked players in the world, and we're still out here and we're still  competing. I think it says a lot for the  depth of golf in South Africa.   
 It's obviously an honour for us to  be here representing our country, and that's what gets overlooked sometimes is  what it means. It's obviously sad that  Ernie and Retief couldn't be here, obviously people would have loved to have  them here and see them play. But Richard  and I, we just went out there and had some fun today.   
  
  Q.  What was the toughest hole for you guys, or the turning point?   
 RICHARD STERNE: Actually I was captain on the front nine and  since we changed captaincy on the back nine, he was in my ear, so we made five  birdies in the back nine. So it must be  the captaincy.  
 17 was pretty tough. Rory made a good par there, and we played  pretty solid golf. We were never really  in trouble. So that's how it went.   
  
  Q.  Your first time in Barbados?   
 RICHARD STERNE: Yeah, it is my first time. It's a beautiful place. We just wish the weather was a bit better. Better; we'll handle it.   
  
  Q.  What was the key to the back nine?  Were you guys just hitting it close or was it just a couple of long  putts?  
 RORY SABBATINI: You know, I'd say probably the key was,  obviously we got off to a good start. We  birdied 10. We both hit it in there  close.   
 Richard, he made some great birdies  on the back nine. He made a great birdie  on No. 12, which it's a tough par 4. He  hit two great shots and made a great putt.  It was a situation that we were both in the hole, we were both there,  and ultimately, one of us would put it close.  Or, you know, it was just somebody would have the advantage, and the  other person would be there with par already; so it gave you the ability to  have a run at some of the putts out there.   
 You know, that's something you have  to do is not perfect pressure on yourself when you're standing over a 15-, 20  -foot putt going, okay, I have to make sure I 2-putt at worst, but I want to  make birdie. It's easy to get up there  and know that you have that par.   
 Basically, Richard made three on the  back and I made two. It was just a good  combination. We left a couple out there  on the back but that's the way the course is going to be. It's another three rounds to go, and  hopefully it will give us a few more shots tomorrow and continue on through the  week.   
  
  Q.  So even though Richard says you were getting in his ear on the back  nine, you dove-tailed pretty well.   
 RORY SABBATINI: We did.  I'm kind of the veteran now. He's  the -- I call him Rookie but obviously he's not a rookie. I give him a hard time. I keep him on his toes out there, but he's a  great kid, he's got a wonderful thing, probably one of the best swings I've  seen out of one of the younger golfers coming out of South Africa, and just very reliable, very  consistent.   
 We just, as I say, we had a lot of  fun, we made a lot of jokes out there and just had a good time.   
 RICHARD STERNE: Yeah, it was also key that we didn't make  birdies on the same holes, except 10, on the back nine. So for scoring, that helps a lot in this  format.   
 That was key to today, as well.   
  
   
  End  of FastScripts…  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT