WACHOVIA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 4, 2006
Rory Sabbatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RORY SABBATINI:  It's a tough golf course and the greens started to firm up out there.  It's pretty tough scoring.
Q.  Of course you've had a 66 here before.  Seems like you know how to play this layout.
RORY SABBATINI:  I'm hoping to save that one for Sunday this year.
Q.  Good playing, Rory, 4 under par.  Thanks for joining us here.
RORY SABBATINI:  Appreciate it.
Q.  A lot of the guys in the morning were saying that you guys are going to have such a big disadvantage with the wind.  Was there any difficulty out there?
RORY SABBATINI:  The wind on this golf course with the trees out there kind of swirls around a bit so it makes it a little tougher.  But for the most part it played pretty consistent today, gusted a bit but nothing too severe.
Q.  (Inaudible).
RORY SABBATINI:  Well, anything is possible.  You look at the track record of the guys out here, you can look at a golf course and say there's no way somebody can shoot a certain score, and they'll do it.
Q.  Obviously you don't want to walk off with a 5 on the last, but overall a solid afternoon?
RORY SABBATINI:  I played nicely, limited my mistakes, three weeks off so I was a little rusty out there today but managed to hang in there and played pretty solid golf the whole way.  I limited my mistakes to a severe minimum.
Q.  Talk about the rough out there.  Seems like it was tough to get out of.
RORY SABBATINI:  The rough is pretty consistent this year.  It's thick and it's pretty lush.  I had to deal with that on No. 9 today.  I hit it in the rough and didn't hit that bad a tee shot, but you end up being in a position where you have no chance of really getting the ball on the green.
Q.  After three weeks you say you were rusty, but do you also feel refreshed coming back and getting back?
RORY SABBATINI:  Definitely.  It feels good to be back out here.  Today was a good start, and I'm hoping to kind of build on what I did today and take that into the rest of the week and hopefully keep things going.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT