BELLSOUTH CLASSIC
March 28, 2006
Rory Sabbatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  For joining us this morning at the BellSouth Classic.  First and foremost let's talk about you winning the Allianz West Coast Swing and a win at the Nissan Open and two runner up finishes.  Maybe some comments.
RORY SABBATINI:  Just the whole time and everything seems to be going well from get go and just feels like the last year is just a great turnaround of events and just an unbelievable start to the year.  So thanks to Allianz for supporting the TOUR.  It's great to be able to play well but great to be rewarded by a company as established as Allianz and to be able to win.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  What did it mean for you to win on a course like Riviera where Ben Hogan has won?
RORY SABBATINI:  It's been a great venue for the TOUR for a long time and a great historic golf course.

Riviera is one of my favorite golf courses.  It's a course that it's all out there in front of you.  It's great to win knowing the history of the golf tournament and definitely a place winning is something that can be cherished and really associate it with some of the great names in golf.  To be able to do that is just inspiring, and it's something that you always want to achieve, but you never know whether or not you will.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  With the win already under your belt, does that change your goals for the rest of the season?
RORY SABBATINI:  You know, nothing really changed.  I'm just going to continue to try to do what I've been doing, play as hard as I can on every shot and evident round, just try and maintain what I've been doing.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  How does it feel to be at the top of that Money List?
RORY SABBATINI:  It's great but I haven't had a lot of success in the past and it will definitely be a challenge and a struggle to keep at the top.
Q.  Wondering what you take away from TPC?
RORY SABBATINI:  TPC was a tough week.  I felt like I hit the ball well.  I made a couple of mistakes.  The one mistake at the wrong time can hurt you pretty badly out there.  I've had success here on the golf course and I like the layout of this golf course.

You know, it's feel that all facets of my game    inaudible    after the West Coast Swing, so I'm hitting the ball a lot better.  It's just one of those random weeks last week.  So coming into this week, I feel good and hope to play well this week and build up going into The Masters next week.
Q.  Inaudible?
RORY SABBATINI:  Well, I wouldn't say it was a swing change or anything like that.  It was just the fact that I    starting off the year, starting off in Hawaii I was ready to go.

Obviously any time you're hitting the ball well    inaudible    it alleviates some of the pressure and you can think your way around the golf course.  Just seems like that has been one of the key things.  I've been putting the ball in the right positions and making putts out there.  If you keep doing that, continue to have fun and not have a lot of pressure on you, it can happen at the right time.
Q.  What do you think with they done in the past year with the overseed?
RORY SABBATINI:  I like the look with the overseeded rough    inaudible.  I think in some respects it will make it a little more difficult but I think overall if you have consistent lies other than patches in zoysia, you can get one that's really    inaudible    but the course looks like it's in great shape.  They have made a few small modifications.
Q.  How much has Augusta    inaudible    been on your mind?
RORY SABBATINI:  I would not say it's been on my mind.  You always want to play well going into Augusta.  If you get into Augusta, you've obviously done some of the right things that you need to do.

But you know, I've just mainly been focused on what I've been doing and I haven't been focused on other players, what they are scoring, who is on the leaderboard.  I've just been focused on putting the shots together that I need to put together.  You know, I think that's going to be my goal next week is just to not get so involved in trying to outthink the golf course, just do what I've been doing and using what I've been successful with out there and continue to try to do the best that I can.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Rory, thank you very much.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT