FBR OPEN
February 4, 2006
Rory Sabbatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
What was working for you out there today?
RORY SABBATINI:   Well, you know, just I was hitting the ball solidly and putting myself in position and giving myself lots of opportunities.  You know, I left a couple out there, but that's going to happen when you're having a day like today.  Not all of them are going to go in.

Maybe tomorrow I can come out and a few more drop in.
Q.  What do you envision as what you have to do to get in contention?
RORY SABBATINI:   I didn't have anything in mind.  I know this course traditionally on the weekend gets tougher and the scoring slows down.  I knew no one was really going to be running away with it.  As long as I could go out there and hit the ball well and make a few putts, I knew I'd have a chance.  Going into this week, hitting the ball the way I was and feeling as good as I was with the putter, I felt like, you know, even shooting 60 was possible out here.
Q.  You've played well every tournament you've played in this season.  Why?
RORY SABBATINI:   I've just been trying to work on my consistency, my mental consistency as well as my golf consistency.  Ball striking, I've been consistent all year.  I haven't had some of my best weeks, but still, my misses have been pretty good, and I've been putting the ball well.  If you're not missing it too badly and you're putting well, you're going to do fine out there.
Q.  Did you notice any changes in the course from Thursday and Friday?
RORY SABBATINI:   The greens have firmed up a little bit and they've also sped up a little bit.  The dry patches on the greens are really starting to show, and if you happen to get in a spot where you've got one of those in your putting line, the ball is going to roll pretty fast.

Traditionally the greens out here get bumpy on the weekends, but they actually held themselves up pretty well today.
Q.  You didn't get up and down on 18.  Was that really a disappointing end to the day?  You still shot 6 under, but what does that do to you when you don't get up and down?
RORY SABBATINI:   I don't look at it as it would have made the round any more disappointing or any better.  It was just a situation that I knew that was what I needed to do.  I hit a poor drive and a good recovery shot from there, and if I get it up and down, great; if I don't, it just means I have one more shot to pick up.
Q.  If you're within three, four, five tomorrow, are you still in it?
RORY SABBATINI:   Oh, definitely.  This course is one that can give and take away shots very easily.  A couple years ago Chris DiMarco and those guys, they were on the back nine, and 10, 11, 12, those holes suddenly, which aren't very demanding holes out there, suddenly you can hit one or two wayward shots and it can take two or three shots away from you in a hurry.  I've still got the leaders in my sight, so I can go out there tomorrow and hopefully put another good round together.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT