SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 15, 2006
Rory Sabbatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Rory Sabbatini, thanks for joining us, one of the runner ups behind David Toms.  He had a huge lead and you had to do a lot today to catch him and you did your best, 62, great day for you.
RORY SABBATINI:  It was a great round of golf out there.  I had a lot of fun.  I hit the ball nicely, putted great.  Just kind of had everything working today, just not enough quite to catch David.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  It's a long season, but this has got to really help your confidence heading into the year with a Top 10 finish and two really good rounds.  65 on Thursday is about as good as you can do under those conditions; it's got to help your confidence the rest of the year.
RORY SABBATINI:  This is actually the first time coming in the start of the year that my game has been pretty on and pretty much on and pretty fresh.

So, you know, it's a great start to the year, just you know to be able to come out here and put some good numbers together and get a good finish out of the week.  That's definitely a positive thing going into the rest of the year.
Q.  Was there a point today when you felt like you could put some pressure on him?
RORY SABBATINI:  You know, after getting through when I was on No. 5 and I looked back and I saw David was 2 under through four, I figured at that point that, you know, he was on today and he wasn't going to let anybody catch him.

The only person that would have a chance would be Chad, and just from that point, I knew that I could only do my best, but the chances were, I wasn't going to catch him.
Q.  When you play somebody like that who just all of the sudden it becomes automatic, they kind of get in that zone, is it intimidating, or is it just something where you just have to play within yourself and hope that they get out of that zone?
RORY SABBATINI:  Well, you know, I was pretty much this whole week focused on what I was doing, focused on my game and not trying to think outside and start thinking ahead of "what if" and this and that.  You know, just really focusing on what I was doing.  I did that pretty well this week and I managed to keep myself in that frame of mind all day today, and I didn't make a when I did make a mistake, I managed to recover from it.
Q.  When you thought last night about what it might take to catch him, where did 62 fit in there?
RORY SABBATINI:  I figured barring him having a bad day today, 1  or 2 over is always possible on this golf course.  It's a golf course that never really gives you anything easily.  So I figured, you know, go out and shoot a 61, 62, might give me a chance but just have to    just have to wait and see.
Q.  Where does Bubba rank amongst the free swingers, for lack of a better word, that you've played with?
RORY SABBATINI:  Very impressed with his game out there.  You know, obviously he hits the ball an absolute mile.  Some of the drives he hit out there today    I could remember when I was a rookie and would just let it go.  I was like, there's absolutely no possibility I could ever have hit it that far.  Just unbelievable.  You know, I was very impressed with his short game.  I think if he just maybe slows himself down around the green a little bit and spends a little more time just getting settled into his putting, he's going to be a force to be reckoned with.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Thanks.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT