WGC WORLD CUP
November 19, 2004
Trevor Immelman
Rory Sabbatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  You started the day six behind, needed a good round and got one; and Trevor said you're largely responsible.
RORY SABBATINI:  No, I think it's an understatement.  I think it was a good combination of us today.  We played solid and only missed one green.  When you're giving yourself 17 chances at birdie or eagle out there, I think you're going to play well.
Q.  Did you go out with a different attitude knowing that you had a bit to catch up?

TREVOR IMMELMAN:  I went out trying to play halfway decent.  Yesterday I struggled and we kind of found a way to shoot 60 under, and so I was just going to try and keep us in it, really.  We got to the first turn, made a nice second shot and I just kind of drew some confidence from there and just tried to keep him going.  He played unbelievable golf today.
Q.  You don't see a lot of foursomes on TV.  Tell us about the interaction; there is more than yesterday when you play your own ball?
RORY SABBATINI:  Obviously I think there is.  There's a lot of complications involved and personally you're responsible for two people.  Any given moment that you hit a bad shot, it can be quite catastrophic out there.

So, you know, at the same time, you also have to let each other play your games as you know how to.  It's a position where you have to find a happy medium.
Q.  Tell us about playing conditions.  We're staggered by the scoring today.  We were expecting 1- or 2-under to be quite a good score.
TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Yeah, I mean, all credit has to go to the golfers for shooting low.  But the greenskeeping staff, the golf course is incredible conditions:  The fairways are perfect, the greens are perfect, the bunkers, the sand, some of the best sand I've ever hit out of.  The course cannot be in better shape.

You know, the weather is not much breeze, not too hot and it's just ideal scoring conditions.  The guys are going low.
Q.  I see you made eagle at No. 9.  How did that one come about?

RORY SABBATINI:  I hit driver in the fairway, Trevor hit a great second shot on the green and I knocked the putt in from 40 feet.

TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Yeah, it was quite a downhill, breaking putt.  It was a great putt.
Q.  And then you birdied straightaway, as well, on 10 and picked up three shots in two holes.
TREVOR IMMELMAN:  I missed a 10-footer on 11 and 12.  We could have got on a real run, because then we birdied the par 5 and then I missed another 10-footer.  Like I said, if I had holed some 10-footers today, we could have been really low because we had a lot of good goes at it.
Q.  But in alternate-shot, you clearly made ground today, with a 65.

TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Oh, without a doubt.  If you had offered us this, we would have taken it.
Q.  You've put yourself right back in the show again, which is what you want for the weekend, I suppose, isn't it?

RORY SABBATINI:  Exactly.  If we can take what we did today into Sunday, get through tomorrow with a good score and put ourselves in position and do half of what we did today, I think we've got a very good chance.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT