BUICK CLASSIC
June 13, 2004
Rory Sabbatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CHRIS REIMER:  Want to thank Rory Sabbatini for coming in with us today, a great day of golf, came up just a little short.  The broadcast cut out, so if you could for these guys kind of go through the three playoff holes, clubs, distances, anything you can give them.
RORY SABBATINI:  Well, 18 first time, driver into the right rough, 4-iron -- excuse me -- driver into the left rough, 5-iron into the rough right, then an L-wedge to the back of the green and two-putted from there.

Then 17, 3-wood off the tee, hit an L-wedge to the back fringe and two-putted from there.

18, second time hit driver into the right rough, 5-iron, laid it up, hit a sand wedge to about 20 feet from the hole and missed the putt.
Q.  Did you drive it in the fairway on 17?
RORY SABBATINI:  Actually unfortunately my ball just ran off the slope there just into the edge of the second cut of rough, so I kind of got a little unfortunate there being unable to spin it.
Q.  Tell us about the putt you made in regulation on 18.
RORY SABBATINI:  Actually the putt I had on 18 in regulation was almost identical to Padraig's putt the first time around on 18.  Luckily we got to see Loren putt from the other side and I saw his putt break pretty hard, so I played it just right at the center because obviously it was a different slope and it kind of drifted right and went in the right side of the hole.

Not exactly the easiest putt to make.
Q.  You at one point in the round looked like you were pretty hot and then got yourself together.  Obviously you played well to get into the playoff.
RORY SABBATINI:  Well, I kind of got off to a rough start today unfortunately, but I played myself back in the right direction and then made birdie at 11 to get to 1-under for the day and made a stumble with the double bogey at 12.

That was really a bad mistake that I made there, and then on 13 I kind of left my second shot short of the green again, and at that point I just kind of decided, you know, I'm not going to throw the tournament away, I'm going to go out there and play and fight back, and I started to just kind of tried to get a couple shots in the right positions and do it that way and made some crucial putts coming down the stretch.
Q.  Were you paying attention to see how the leaderboard was fluctuating almost hole by hole there for a while?
RORY SABBATINI:  Well, obviously I was paying attention to it.  I saw that at one point I was two behind and I really kind of tried to at that point decided to pick up the pace again.  It's not exactly a golf course where you can go out there and go, well, I'm going to birdie this hole, it's an easy hole, because any hole out there can bite you.

It really just came down to knowing that people are going to make mistakes and trying to limit mine.
Q.  Did it play any different today, and how was it playing in threesomes instead of a twosome?
RORY SABBATINI:  I think the pace of play today was a little better than it was the last two days -- excuse me, the last three days, but it wasn't bad out there.  I think the course just played extremely tough.  There were some pretty good pins out there and obviously the wind was playing a part in it.  There were a couple holes out there that the wind was just the right direction and it was posing a pretty good challenge to us.

It really became crucial to hit the ball in the fairways and get it on the greens.
Q.  Did you feel like the chip on 18, the third playoff hole, was about as close to perfect as you could hit it?
RORY SABBATINI:  Yeah.  You know, I hit my shot and obviously it was very similar to the one I had coming in in regulation.  I hit the shot and I saw it bounce, saw it bounce again, and I thought, oh, man, this is going to be perfect, it's going to get to the crest of the hill and it's going to trickle over the other side.  When I saw it go it was a bit of a surprise and a bit of a disappointment, but I hit a good shot, I can't complain, and unfortunately I didn't get to make the putt.
Q.  What did you have in there, about 70 yards?
RORY SABBATINI:  I actually had 67 to the hole, which my ball traveled 65 and a half and then rolled back.
CHRIS REIMER:  Thank you very much, Rory.  Good luck next week.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT