BUICK CLASSIC
June 12, 2004
Rory Sabbatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CHRIS REIMER:  65, well in the running for tomorrow.  It looked like a fun round of golf for you today out there.
RORY SABBATINI:  Yeah, I played solidly, and any time obviously you're hitting the ball well and making a lot of putts, golf can be a lot of fun.

It kind of emulates life that way; when things are good, it's fun.  When things are not good, you get grumpy out there.
Q.
I spent a little time with you out there at the RV.  You've got the wife along with you, your new son Harley.  Just seems like you're in a good place, you just seem comfortable with where you're at.
RORY SABBATINI:  My wife and I have been doing that for about a year now, and it definitely seems to be a lot more relaxing for me.  I've noticed the consistency of my golf has been a lot better.  I don't get fatigued and I don't get as road-worn as I normally would.
Q.
You had a lot of long putts today, a lot of long birdie putts.  Can you talk about those?
RORY SABBATINI:  Yeah.  Obviously I've been driving the ball well, but I think there's some work to be done with my irons.  I'm obviously not getting the ball close enough to the hole.  It's a golf course that you really have to put the ball in the fairway, and then from there you really have to get on the green.

The majority of your mistakes are going to be either hitting a bad tee shot or missing a green in the wrong place, and around the greens, with the rough as it is, it's not easy to get a ball up-and-down, so put the ball on the green and do your work from there.

I've been putting more focus on putting the ball on the surface than trying to hit it close every hole.
Q.
Do you think you might have to change that rule tomorrow with so many guys bunched up?
RORY SABBATINI:  You know, the simple thing is guys are going to make mistakes out there.  It's inevitable.  The course is playing tough.  It's not giving anything to you.

I'm going to go out there and try and limit my mistakes, and if I can do that, and in the process go and make three or four putts and suddenly go and shoot another round in the mid- or high 60s, I think there's a good chance.
Q.
Did the pace of play bother you at all?
RORY SABBATINI:  You know, it wasn't bad out there today.  When we did have to wait, my caddie and I kept ourselves entertained, had a conversation or whatever.  I never really got bothered by it.  As I said, it's always a lot easier to tolerate things on the golf course when you're playing well.

If I can go out there tomorrow and get off to a good start, even if there's another bunch-up like there were on a couple tees today, I don't think it would pose any problem.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT