THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2018
Rory Sabbatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Some comments on your round.
RORY SABBATINI: Managed to keep the ball in play for most of the day, keep myself out of trouble and just had a really good day around the greens.  Just made some good putts, put myself in position, gave myself a lot of opportunities, was able to convert, and yeah, the golf course is in great condition and probably the best condition I've ever seen it, but definitely good scoring conditions out there today.
Q. Excellent start as well.  Just talk about your start on the first few holes.
RORY SABBATINI: Well, exactly, it's always key I think on this golf course to get off to a good start, put yourself in the right frame of mind.  I hit a good tee shot on 10, drove it all the way down to the end of the fairway, I had a sand wedge in.  Knocked it to five feet and made birdie.
11, decided to lay up on my second shot instead of being aggressive.  Hit a sand wedge in there about 18 feet and made the putt for birdie.
Then 12, hit a 3-iron in the fairway, chipped it up there about eight feet behind the hole and made the putt for birdie from there.  So just a good way to get the round going and just get some momentum.
Q. How tough is it to bring in the aggressiveness in such good conditions on 12?
RORY SABBATINI: I'm getting old, I can't hit it that hard anymore.  So it was a little out of my range.  It was kind of borderline.  I think over the years I've learned my lesson on that hole, it's one if you try and get aggressive it tends to bite back hard at you.  So sometimes it's laying up and putting yourself at a good number is the best approach, especially to the front pins.
Q. You've done this for a number of years.  How do you, how does this round fit in that and how do you, do you put it behind you going into tomorrow?
RORY SABBATINI: You know, it took me a long time to figure out this golf course and then over the last couple years I started to figure it out and unfortunately I missed being here the last two years through the injury that I had.  But the last time I played I finished sixth.  So I felt really good about the way I played and this feels like I'm building on the momentum from a couple years ago.  So I enjoy the course.  I've never seen it in this amazing of condition.  But ultimately today's the day to go out there and score because tomorrow afternoon it's just going to get firmer and dryer and it's going to get tougher.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT