RBC HERITAGE
April 13, 2018
Rory Sabbatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Good to get that birdie after the challenging holes on the back nine today.  
RORY SABBATINI: Yeah, obviously birdieing 18 is always great to come off the golf course with, especially on this golf course.  The wind was playing some games out there and making it all the more challenging.  It's starting to dry out now, so it's starting to play more true to its normal form of being a little bit tough on us.   
 Q.  You make the birdie on 9, you're 10-under par, but you had a short little patience on that back nine as you went on through, and then finally came through with that birdie on 18?  
RORY SABBATINI: Yeah, I hit a couple of bad shots.  And it just kind of makes you start grinding down a little bit.  You don't swing quite as freely, you start focusing on all the wrong things than what you need to do.  I kind of slowed things down.  And 17 really kind of ticked me off.  And so 18 I went pretty aggressive.  I said I'm going to make a birdie on this hole.   
 Q.  8-under par, heading to the weekend, how are you feeling about it?  
RORY SABBATINI: I feel good.  I played nicely.  Today wasn't my best day.  So I've got some work to do on the weekend.  I'm doing the right things, so if I can go out on the weekend and make sure I stay patient and focus and stay in the right direction, I think it will be good.   
 Q.  After that treacherous back nine how much did it help your confidence to get that birdie on 18?  
RORY SABBATINI: It's great.  I didn't play my best golf on the back nine today.  I really frustrated myself.  It was disappointing.  I had a good thing going.  And just kind of made some poor mistakes on the backside.  So coming off making that birdie kind of got myself going back in the right direction.  Use that to go on to the weekend.   
 Q.  What makes the back nine of this golf course so difficult?  
RORY SABBATINI: Well, it's a very strategic back nine.  It's got a lot of little subtleties, special tee shots that really make it hard to fit your eye.  So you've got to be very focused on exactly everything you're doing.  If you lose focus you can make mistakes very quickly.   
 Q.  What have you learned about your game the last couple of days?  I know you mentioned you had the injury earlier in the week.  What have you learned about how you've been able to bounce back?  
RORY SABBATINI: I felt like I've been making great strides at least since the Sony Open this year.  I've gone in the right direction with my game and getting more confidence in it.  Feeling like I'm there each week with a chance to put myself in position.  And that's key.  Confidence is definitely a huge part of playing good golf.   
 Q.  What have you learned that you can take into the weekend after 36 holes?  
RORY SABBATINI: Don't hit up against tree trunks.  Just make sure you hit it in the fairways, there's no tree trunks there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT