THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 12, 2020
Rory Sabbatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Out early on this Thursday, Rory, with a 68 and then you found out after that moving forward no fans for the foreseeable future through Valero. What are your initial and immediate reactions to what Commissioner Monahan said earlier today?
RORY SABBATINI: Well, obviously I'm just learning the gist of it. Obviously I feel the pain for the spectators because this is obviously such a big event. I know that no actions and no decisions are taken lightly. I know a lot of thought and a lot of contemplation went into this. You know, it's just -- it's unfortunate. But there's a protection of obviously the fans being out here as well as the players.
I'm hoping to get this under control and get everybody back out here.
Q. We've all been watching the evolution of how the world is changing. Was there ever a point where you thought it would get to where we are now with everything halting and things that are changing the whole dynamic?
RORY SABBATINI: It just makes you realize how interconnected the entire planet is now these days. You know, it just really makes you realize on the global picture how small we really are. Just got to sit back and try to be a part of it and try to be one of the people that supports helping figure out how to go forward from here and how to figure it out from here.
Q. How different will it be for you and the rest of the field not only tomorrow but for the next few weeks on the PGA TOUR?
RORY SABBATINI: It's going to be very different. I think it'll be kind of an eerie situation being out there. I've played this course when there hasn't been anyone out here, and that's strange enough, so in a tournament situation with nobody out here, it's going to be kind of awkward.
Q. How were the greens?
RORY SABBATINI: The greens are good. The greens are actually better than I thought they were going to be, but we had fresh greens for nine holes.
Q. By good, you mean receptive?
RORY SABBATINI: They were very receptive. The whole course is still very soft.
Q. Five birdies, one bogey. You've got to feel good about the round. Take me through it.
RORY SABBATINI: I played solid all day. Gave myself a lot of opportunities. I missed a couple good birdie opportunities, but I made a couple good par saves, so you've kind of got to look at how they offset. 18 was just unfortunate. I actually thought I hit a pretty good tee shot, and the wind just switched directions on me, so it happens, and at least I limited the damage.
Q. Give me your impression of the greens as far as receptiveness. The shot you hit into 16, your second into the par-5, had a about a foot of release to it.
RORY SABBATINI: Yeah, the course is definitely a little soft under foot. I think a little bit of a rough spring here, so the growth rate of the fairways and the greens kind of got hampered by that a little bit. So I think just to protect the course they've had to keep a little bit of moisture on it. I think if it dried quickly, we could see some very dire situations out there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT