BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 5, 2017
Rory Sabbatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I'm sure not finishing how you wanted to on 18, but finishing second, giving yourself a chance on the last day.  Do you feel like you've got a chance going into Sunday?
RORY SABBATINI: Yeah, obviously I gave myself a chance.  I've got to go out there tomorrow and probably do something similar, score a lot of points, give myself a better opportunity.  But yeah, the scores are out there.  It's just taking advantage of the golf course.
Q. Do you feel like with the way the format is and that you can pick up points very quickly that when you go into Sunday within that kind of points range that you have more of a chance than at maybe some other events?
RORY SABBATINI: Oh, for sure, definitely.  Obviously you can go out here, and I think anybody in the field is going out and scoring 20 points out there.  As I said, the scores are out there, so tomorrow is going to be interesting.  I'm going to have to go out there and fire low and make a lot of birdies, a lot of eagles.
Q. How many times have you played here?
RORY SABBATINI: I'm not sure how many, but a few times.
Q. What have you learned over the years to take into Sunday to help maybe get you that 20-point score?
RORY SABBATINI: Well, I think the only thing you can take into Sunday is you've got to go out there and you've got to stay in the same aggressive mind frame.  You can't go out there and try and protect it because people are going to catch up quickly.  Regardless of where you're sitting, you've got to go out and just play as hard as you can and get going as fast as you can.
Q. Two eagles; can you take us through those two holes in particular?
RORY SABBATINI: Yeah, 8 I hit driver to the right side of the fairway and then hit a 5-wood to about 25 feet from the hole, just pin high left on the fringe and putted in for eagle, and then 13, I hit driver in the fairway, hit an 8-iron on the right fringe, and probably about 13, 14 feet from the hole, and chipped that one in for eagle.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT