JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 13, 2017
Rory Sabbatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Great finish.  Did something click on the back nine for you today?
RORY SABBATINI: No, you know, I got off to a good start.  Just made a very poor error on No. 3, and then made another just mental mistake on 5.
Felt good.  Was hitting the ball good.  Just nice to see some putts go in.
Q. You like this type of golf, knowing starting a tournament like this you need to start making birdies right out of the gate and have that aggressive mindset?
RORY SABBATINI: I like this course.  I like the layout.  It's always fitted my eye very well.  You know, it's a good golf course.  It's always in good condition.  You know coming in here you got to be aggressive, got to go low.  There are no prizes for just taking your time out there.
Q. You mentioned a couple mental errors.  Do you work on anything specific or more of the same tomorrow and clean up the mental errors?
RORY SABBATINI: Just clean up the mental errors.  You know, I went to Yonex about a month ago and found set of irons that are just absolutely phenomenal.  So I am feeling very confident in my iron game; driving the ball well.
Just need to keep rolling the ball well, keep making some putts.
Q. Over the last week seemed to have found something and rolled it over into this week.
RORY SABBATINI: No, you know, I've been playing really solid golf.  Even June, the missed cuts, I felt like I was playing good golf.  Just wasn't scoring well.
It's very frustrating when you hit ball well and seem like you're doing everything well and the numbers aren't adding up.  Sometimes you just got to take a step back to take those two steps forward.
I think that was just a time frame of me learning a little bit more about my golf and being patient out there.  You know, just kind of getting back to the basics a bit.
Q. Friend of mine who played with you this week said you said your putts hadn't been going in, but then he said yesterday or the other day when you played it looked like you were rolling it great.  That's translated to here.
RORY SABBATINI: Yeah, you know, golf is a funny game.  Doesn't matter how good you roll a putt, if it doesn't go in, it doesn't go in.  There's nothing you can do about it.  It has been very frustrating in that sense.
But as I said, today seeing some putts go in, it was fun again.  It makes golf enjoyable.  You see one putt go in and next time the hole looks a little bit bigger.  Hopefully it'll keep progressing forward.
Q. Talk about the back nine.  Started going really well, especially the birdie-birdie finish there.
RORY SABBATINI: Yeah, you know, obviously over the last couple weeks been playing the par-5s really well.  Come in the back nine knowing I had two par-5s and good scoring opportunities there, as well as the conditions out there, you know, it's a golf course you need to go out there and be aggressive today.
I just really tried to focus on making sure that I was precise with what I was trying to do out there.  Obviously key is putting the ball in the fairway, which is big on this golf course.
Q. Putter?  Wedges?  What was working?
RORY SABBATINI: I kind of had a little bit of everything going.  I was driving the ball great.  Only missed one fairway today.
I was hitting my irons well.  Winds was a little deceptive out there, playing some games.  Other than that, I was hitting them pretty accurately.
Then obviously key part of any round is you have to make putts.
Q. At 6 now.  Is there another number somebody might get to this afternoon?
RORY SABBATINI: Oh, definitely.  I would not be surprised to see a 9 or 10 on the board.
Q. Did you take some time off?  Have an injury?
RORY SABBATINI: No.  I played St. Jude and then last week; two weeks before that up in Hartford.  Yeah, I've been playing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT