SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 12, 2017
Rory Sabbatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You got off to a flyer, but then dropped down.  Still, a solid opening day?
RORY SABBATINI: That's kind of how this course is, it gives you some and then all of a sudden it puts up a little defense on you, and you just have to kind of battle through it.
I got it going nicely.  I gave myself a lot of opportunities, and yeah, just on the back nine, the greens got a little bumpy.  You know, you make mistakes, you're getting old, you're getting tired.  It happens.
Q. It's my first time here, and I got here, and I'm like, man, this place is like Durban.  Does it stimulate some feelings inside for you?
RORY SABBATINI: Definitely.  I love coming here.  I think this is one of, if not, the best golf course we play all year.  I think it's just a great shot-making course.  It gives you a lot of opportunities.  You have to have creativity and it's just a classic design.  I love everything about it.  It does bring a little bit of Durban, the weather.  I wish the winds would be blowing because then it makes it fun out there.
Q. Now you had the off-season.  Anything special you worked on?
RORY SABBATINI: The house.  (Laughter) I've been doing some cross fit in the attic.  No, I think just spent a little more time making sure I was playing at least a little bit each day and doing a little bit of work each day, instead of the usual sit-on-the-couch-and-do-nothing.  It's definitely paying off.
Q. A place you enjoy coming back to?  11 out of 12 first rounds in the 60s.  What is it about the place that gets you going?
RORY SABBATINI: It's a golf course that once in a while, you have one of those ones that just fits your eye so well, and you love going there and you play well on it and you feel comfortable on it.  I've played here enough times that I know the course and I know the nuances where you can and cannot hit it.  Obviously that's a challenge out here, knowing that stuff, and then avoiding it.
But it's a beautiful golf course.  It's a classic golf course.  You have to have shot-making abilities out there and you have to have creativity.  That's all you've got to do.  Everything is out there in front of you.  Nothing too hard.  Nothing too complicated.  At the end of the day, you have to go out there and make putts.
Q. A couple changes to the golf course this year.
RORY SABBATINI: 11 is a lot different this year for us with that hole, because for me, actually they did me a favor.  That was one of the greens that used to give me fits because could never I read it.  I think this year, everybody is going to have trouble reading it, so it kind of levels the playing field by one hole for me.
It's one of those courses, it's classic.  You hit good shots, you get rewarded.  You hit bad shots, it gives you an opportunity to be creative and try to make something of it.
Q. Is it hard to stay in your own bubble when you start out and someone puts up a 59 and you know a low one is out there?
RORY SABBATINI: I didn't even know that until I was on the third hole.  Justin is playing some phenomenal golf, and the conditions were pretty benign today.  But you know, the way I look at it, he's young.  Kind of burned the fuel tank a little bit hard today; I kind of left a little bit in the fuel tank, so I have three more days to catch him.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT