THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2015
Rory Sabbatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. If you could talk about your round today.  What are your thoughts about this round today?RORY SABBATINI: The conditions out there are tough.  The course is definitely a lot firmer and faster today and those pins are getting less and less accessible out there. I just managed to grind out a couple times where I got myself in trouble and take opportunities that came in stride.Q. Talk to us about 17, your birdie and your celebration there.RORY SABBATINI: Well, you know, 17 green's getting very hard right now and you just got to be a little cautious out there.  And I hit a shot that I think maybe a little overly cautious, but got one of those rare opportunities where I had a putt that was pretty much straight down the fall line and we got lucky. And the little celebratory dance I think was a little bit of redemption after my mess I made of it on Thursday.Q. As a player, is this the way you want the course to be on the final day of a tournament of this magnitude?RORY SABBATINI: I think this is what you expect here.  This is what we're accustomed to, seeing this course really show its teeth. The course is designed that if you hit bad shots, you're going to be left in very awkward positions and have to work extremely hard.  And that's what you expect out here.  So you just got to be prepared for it. To go through the round without making a bogey, I was extremely proud of myself, because that's not often accomplished out here, especially on a Sunday.Q. This isn't typically a place where players find their game, what turned it around for you this week?  What do you feel like you did well?RORY SABBATINI: Well, after Hilton Head, I did a little reassessment of my putting and made some adjustments and some changes and I've been spending a lot of time working on that and have made leaps and bounds of improvements in the last two weeks, three weeks, with that. So, I think I've kind of found something that's working very consistently and very well for me.  And I'm excited for the rest of the year.Q. Did you think this morning when you went off that if I shoot 69 I'll be right in it?RORY SABBATINI: You know, starting off the round, giving up four shots I think I was giving up, there were a lot of guys grouped there, a lot of good golfers and I think that you can't go into it thinking 10-under is going to be the number.  You got to go out there and try and get to 12. So, 6-under was ultimately my goal and but I know that's going to be hard to achieve out there.  So I just tried to take one shot at a time and just be patient out there and I gave it my best effort, just fell a little short.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT