THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 26, 2015
Rory Sabbatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   68 in these conditions is good, but I saw you hit some really good shots.   Could it have been lower than that?   
RORY SABBATINI:   It was a good day.   Tough conditions, 68 on this course, it will suffice.   Definitely kicking myself, I had a lot of opportunities out there, and when you have a day like that, you feel like you should take advantage of it.  
   
 Q.   Is it a glass half‑full or a glass half empty?  
RORY SABBATINI:   You know what, I think I might need another drink‑‑ no, it was a good day.   2‑under out there, I'll take it.   Just had one mental error, and other than that, I've done a really good job of keeping myself in the game out there, and that's what you do on tough days like this.   
   
 Q.   It was howling this morning and when you know it's going to be that windy, do you have a philosophy of how you would like to play the ball in the wind?   
RORY SABBATINI:   Pray.   No, this golf course, there's no ease‑up on think hole out there.   Even the easy holes can come and bite you so you really had to be patient and take your time out there.   I just knew that of key importance today was going to be putting it in the fairways and hitting greens.   
   
 Q.   All in all, 68 is a very good day.  
RORY SABBATINI:   Conditions are not easy right now, not only tee‑to‑green but once you're on the green, it's tough to judge putts, the speed of putts.   
   
 Q.   You had a great run on the back nine, through the Bear Trap, what did you think was possible at that stage?   
RORY SABBATINI:   You know, you can't ever predict on this golf course.   Every single hole out there, it can bite you.   So you have to be patient and just have take the opportunities that you can when you get them and just from there try and be patient, try and play smart and put the ball in the right spots.  
   
 Q.   How about the finish to the front nine, what was that playing like in the front nine‑‑  
RORY SABBATINI:   Typically you think you get 520 on 6 downwind it would be a much easier hole.   But the front pin out there today, it's playing very tough there.   7, the par3, has got wind into you off the left so it's playing long and hard to judge.   
   
 Q.   What condition is your game in generally?  
RORY SABBATINI:   Pretty good.   I played solid out there today.   I had one little hiccup that was a mental error but this golf course will do that to you.   
   
 Q.   Very in these conditions, how would you assess that 68?   
RORY SABBATINI:   Conditions out there are not easy.   Golf course is definitely showing a little bit of it's teeth today and it's going to be challenging.   A 68 out there, I'll definitely take it.  
   
 Q.   What's the mentality for you with these conditions, especially since we are expecting these conditions for the rest of the week?  
RORY SABBATINI:   I definitely think that there's definitely going to be a prime need for putting the ball in the fairway off the tee, and then putting it on the greens, taking your time, picking your spots when you're given the opportunity out there.   Just really keep putting it in the fairway and on the greens.   
   
 Q.   What part of your game are you focussing on in these conditions?   
RORY SABBATINI:   I think the wind is definitely making the greens really tough out there, because it's making it tough to judge speed of putts.   So I think that you're going to have spend more time out there and just really be patient.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT