RBC HERITAGE
April 17, 2014
Rory Sabbatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Rory, 2‑under par, 69 in the first round.   Rate your performance.   
RORY SABBATINI:   Well, I'm pretty happy with it.   The conditions out there are tough and definitely challenging today.   The course, even though it's receptive and soft out there, it's being retailored by the wind.   It's tough out there.  
   
 Q.   You've had pretty good success here, why do you think that is?  
RORY SABBATINI:   I don't know.   Considering that it's supposed to be a straight hitter's golf course and I'm not considered to be a straight hitter, that's quite a conundrum out there.   I like the course, I like the layout.   It's a shot‑making course, and I enjoy that type of golf.  
   
 Q.   Your short game is also very good.   Do you find that's conducive to this golf course?  
RORY SABBATINI:   I tell you, this golf course, you definitely have to come with the short game in top order.   You're going to have a lot of tough‑‑ you're going to put yourself in some positions that you don't want to be in.   You've got to learn how to move a shot or two to get it away and get around.   And that's all you can do.  
   
 Q.   Talk about your round today and how you went about it.   
RORY SABBATINI:   I played nicely out there.   For the most part hit a lot of good golf shots.  
It's challenging.   The wind is tough out there.   It's not consistent, and just swirled out there.   I thought it was very tough and you've got to be in definite control of your golf ball.  
   
 Q.   You teed off in the morning today.   Tomorrow in the afternoon.   Weather is supposed to come in tomorrow, does that worry you at all?  
RORY SABBATINI:   We can't change what Mother Nature is going to do.   We can only deal with what we've got out there at the time.   This morning was tough conditions.   I'm happy with the way I played.   And tomorrow I've got to go out there and find a way to get it done again.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT