OHL CLASSIC AT MAYAKOBA
November 16, 2013
Rory Sabbatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Rory, great second round.   Just tell me a little bit about it. 
RORY SABBATINI:   No, you know, I just did what this golf course requires:   I put the ball in play and played conservative, but when I got opportunities was able to take advantage of them and made some good putts.   When I got myself off track, was able to recover nicely. 
If you can do that on this golf course, it's definitely the way to do it.   It's a demanding golf course.   If you hit the ball well you can score low out here; if you're not hitting the ball well, you got to figure out a way to keep it in play and get it around the course.

Q.   Obviously a lot of great moments and highlights.   Just on 18, you had that very near miss for birdie.   What were some of the highlights for you in the second round?
RORY SABBATINI:   Obviously.   I don't know, for some reason I just seem to really be liking the 15th hole this year, the par‑3.   'Bout made a hole‑in‑one there yesterday.   Couple key holes like that where they can be demanding, but if you hit good shots you can be rewarded for them.
That's what I was able to do.   Had a couple opportunities like that out there.   It was just a fun day of golf.

Q.   Tell everybody about your experience in Mexico. 
RORY SABBATINI:   I enjoy coming down here.   It's a fantastic golf course.   Greg Norman did a great job designing it.   It's player friendly for every spectrum of golfer, and that's a testament to a good golf course.
Obviously we've had a little bit of an issue with the weather, but all things considered, the golf course has handled that very well.   It's a testament to the way they designed the course.
Then also just being down here is fantastic.   There are three fantastic resorts here on property, and Playa down the road is a great spot to go and hang out and relax. 

Q.   Tough day for you.   One of the toughest days on the course today.   Woke up for one hole.   Got any plans before you tee off again in the afternoon? 
RORY SABBATINI:   Yeah, I'm going back to bed. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT