CIMB CLASSIC
October 24, 2013
Rory Sabbatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  RORY SABBATINI:   This course is obviously playing long, and the greens are firm, so you gotta put the ball in the right spot out there, and for the most part I managed to do that today.

Q.   You had a lot of birdies on the front nine. 
RORY SABBATINI:   Well, you know, I hit a lot of good shots on the front nine there, put myself in position and amazingly enough the putter was just behaving itself very nicely, and just the tale of two nines, back nine I hit a lot of good shots and hit a lot of good putts and burned a lot of edges, but that's going to happen out there.

Q.   Were you glad you were in one of the first groups out there this morning just because of the conditions of the weather, the heat?
RORY SABBATINI:   Well, you know, I think it's the same for everybody.   I don't think it really matters particularly what time you tee off here.   It's going to be warm and humid. 
So no, it was nice getting out there and getting started early and getting off to a good start.   But there's lots of good scoring going on out there, and it's evident.   The guys out here, you can fly the ball the way you want it to end up in the fairways, so it's being for giving in that sense, but you've gotta be in the right spot to approach the flags.

Q.   And what about the event in general, the fact this year they have FedExCup points.   Is that a determining factor for you coming out at this point in the season?
RORY SABBATINI:   Well, actually you know, I came out here a couple of years ago.   I enjoyed myself very much.   It is great to see this event being awarded FedExCup points.   I think it's fantastic to expand the game to all corners of the world. 
It's great for the spectators here.   It adds a little bit of enthusiasm.   I think it's strengthened the field a little bit.   It's fantastic. 
You know, it's nice to be here.   It's a fantastic golf course here at the Kuala Lumpur Golf Country Club.   They've been very facilitating and great hosts.   So it's been fantastic so far.

Q.   With the way the season ends and immediately starts back up, is it kind of a chance to say, okay, new start or does it feel that much different for you, the new season?
RORY SABBATINI:   You know, it is interesting.   You kind of get into the rut of having a certain frame of mind this time of year and it's been one that after the season being over with the FedExCup this has kind of been the down time of the year.   And I've found myself the last two weeks being very lethargic out there and it's amazing how you kind of train yourself in certain events.
So coming here I had to try and change things up and get things going in the right direction. 
So it does.   It makes it very interesting, the quick turnaround and new season.   You definitely have to I think retrain your thought pattern out here.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT