RBC HERITAGE
April 19, 2013
Rory Sabbatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  RORY SABBATINI:   Coming in this week I wasn't expecting a whole lot.   I got more out of it than expected so far.  
   
 Q.   You like this course, don't you?   You've played well here in the past?  
RORY SABBATINI:   Yeah, it's a good golf course.   It's small greens.   You've got to hit all the iron shots in the green.   You have to position the ball out there.   Those are things that I like to do, I like the traditional soft courses like that.  
   
 Q.   You were one of the first groups out today, did the course conditions suit you?  
RORY SABBATINI:   The course is in fantastic condition.   I don't think I've ever seen the greens in as good condition as they are.   And the whole course in general is fantastic condition.   It's not playing as firm and fast as it normally does.   But I'm sure for the weekend, barring some heavy rain this afternoon, I think things will definitely speed up.  
   
 Q.   You happy you got these first two rounds in?  
RORY SABBATINI:   Looking at the weather forecast, I was concerned.   I'm happy to get those two rounds in and I can relax this weekend.  
   
 Q.   Out early, in at 4‑under in a course and place that conditions can change quickly, how happy are you?  
RORY SABBATINI:   I'm very happy.   I looked at the weather forecast this morning, and I was a little concerned that if I could get done with my round today.   I'm happy to be done, and posted another good score.   So all things considered I'll take where I am right now.   
   
 Q.   How did it go out there today?  
RORY SABBATINI:   For two days I've actually been doing very well with my ball‑striking, especially my irons.   I think if you can putt well around this golf course, it makes things easier.  
   
 Q.   Put yourself in a good position for the final two rounds?  
RORY SABBATINI:   Obviously I think as we've seen traditionally here on this course in the weekends, the score tends to slow down, the course gets quicker and firmer.   You've got to be more cautious out there.   I'm looking forward to the weekend, just go out there and hopefully continue building on what I've done the last two days and see what happens.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT