TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 24, 2012
Rory Sabbatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Rory, first of all, congratulations on the ace and the Rolex, $27,000 price, I think.   Just comment on that hole and also on the tournament sponsors.   
RORY SABBATINI:   Yeah.   It's my third and second this year, but first ever in actual competition, so that felt really good.  
It was just one of those ones when I hit it, it felt good coming off.   It had good yardage.   And kind of joking in mid flight, I said, be the right number and go in the hole, and it landed perfect and just kind of spun left, and the crowd started to go crazy and all of a sudden it was hard to tell whether or not it went in or not, but then actually you could tell from the reaction of the crowd.  
Pretty surreal.   It was amazing.   Obviously I appreciate Travelers having us here this week.   It's been a great week, and they did a great job with the event.  
   
 Q.   8‑iron?  
RORY SABBATINI:   Yes, sir.   I think it was 161 yards.   
   
 Q.   Is it a different feeling like you're watching the flight, you know you've hit it pretty good and you're watching and watching.   When does that thought go through your mind?  
RORY SABBATINI:   Obviously when I hit it and knew how I struck it, I looked up and you kind of do the look up and then the look down and see where the flag is and see how it's turning in in relation.   You realize at that point that it's looking pretty good.   But you know, obviously it's always hard to tell.  
I think when I saw it land, I thought it had a chance, so I knew it was going to be close.  
   
 Q.   We saw one at the Masters.   Where was the other?  
RORY SABBATINI:   In the practice round earlier this year at Spyglass.  
   
 Q.   Can you take us through your round, your feelings on how it went, especially the back nine?  
RORY SABBATINI:   It was a good day.   I had a lot of good opportunities out there and made a lot of good birdies, and obviously an eagle always helps.   
You know, it's always offset by unfortunately a few careless bogeys.   You know, it was a day that could have been one that would have been pretty spectacular.   But you know, all things considered, you know, I went out there, I played hard and that's all I can do.   So I'm happy with the way I played and I just gotta go out there and use this as momentum and positive buildup going into next week.  
   
 Q.   Are you the type of guy that wears a $27,000 watch?  
RORY SABBATINI:   I've got a few more than that.   Yeah.   So obviously it's always great to win something when you make a hole‑in‑one, but I was just quite ecstatic to make a hole‑in‑one.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT