THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE INSURANCE
June 3, 2012
Rory Sabbatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You played pretty well.   Talk about the day today. 
RORY SABBATINI:   Yeah, I went out there and I played solid all week, put the ball in play, hit a lot of good iron shots, gave myself a lot of opportunities, and that's difficult to do out there.   There's definitely a lot to take away from it. 

Q.   He birdied three of the last four.   Was there anything you could have done? 
RORY SABBATINI:   No, I knew after birdieing 12 and 13 that that wasn't going to be enough.   I knew that I was going to have to make birdies, and I knew 16‑‑ 15 was going to be a key hole.   I hit a good drive and just didn't execute on the second shot, and from there it was just a tough position, had to just try and play for par.   So not making birdie there really opened the door for everything to unfold. 

Q.   Where are you in the process of making some changes? 
RORY SABBATINI:   Obviously the swing was there all day today and was there all week, and that's what we're striving for is consistency, so we're managing to achieve that, and that's what our goal is.

Q.   Talk about 16. 
RORY SABBATINI:   Well, it's unfortunate right now, it's a new green, so it's playing really tough in that sense.   But once it matures and it likens up to the rest of the golf course, it'll be a good hole. 

Q.   Were you aware of what Tiger was doing out there? 
RORY SABBATINI:   Well, obviously I knew something was going on up in front.   I was really just trying to focus on my own game, and the only thing I could do was control what I was doing.   I knew that I was going to have to put a good number up there. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
RORY SABBATINI:   You know, 18 I just played a little more aggressively.   I knew I had to make a 2 to tie him, so I took a more aggressive line on the tee shot because I knew I had to try to get in position there where I could hole the second shot, and just unfortunately it didn't pay off. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
RORY SABBATINI:   Oh, that was a pitching wedge. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
RORY SABBATINI:   It was on the flag the whole way, so I was liking the look of it, and then it was about six inches too far.   I think if it comes down just a touch short, it could have been an interesting way it might have ended. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT