THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE INSURANCE
June 2, 2012
Rory Sabbatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  COLIN MURRAY:   We'd like to welcome Rory Sabbatini to the interview room here at the Memorial Tournament again, 1‑under 71 today, 7‑under par for the tournament on a tough day.   If you could just talk a little bit about the round. 
RORY SABBATINI:   I'm just‑‑ hey, two days in a row of being here, wow.   They might actually erect a plaque for me now. 
It was a tough day out there.   I never really got anything going, and I just kind of had to continually battle on the front nine, and then I had a couple opportunities on the back, never quite took advantage of them.   But still very happy with the way I played, gave myself opportunities, and in these conditions that's all you can hope to do. 
Again, I managed to put the ball for the most part in the right spots out there, and as long as you're doing that, you're keeping the pressure off your game for the most part. 

Q.   With the conditions as they are, how does that factor into what you're working on with Rick off the course, and how does that test what you're trying to bring to the course in this situation? 
RORY SABBATINI:   Well, you know, for the most part today I actually hit the ball pretty well.   I drove the ball very well on the back there and hit a lot of good iron shots.   That's all you can hope to do. 
Unfortunately a couple times I got myself into some awkward positions and the wind was kind of testy out there, especially early on, and just made a few‑‑ couple small errors but was able to rebound from them. 
I'm very happy with the way things turned out because obviously today was a day that with the conditions the way they were, if I would have got off to that start, definitely could have been a round that could have got ugly in a hurry, and I managed to tighten the reins and get it back in the right direction. 

Q.   You're playing with Spencer tomorrow, right? 
RORY SABBATINI:   Uh‑huh, yeah, the guy I played with today, yeah. 

Q.   Any similarities between your games?   You guys both seem to be kind of fiery, extroverted competitors how when we're watching you we can tell how you're playing, a lot of energy and a lot of enthusiasm. 
RORY SABBATINI:   Yeah, Spencer and I are a lot alike in that fashion.   We do wear our emotions on our sleeve, and we are competitors.   Obviously we've seen over the past 18 months he's been performing very well, and it's just a compliment to his game.   He struck the ball well out there today, hit a lot of good golf shots, and a couple times didn't get rewarded.   But that's the way golf is, so you've got to go out there and just ultimately play 18 holes, sign your scorecard and that's what you've got. 
He's a fun guy to play with, and I'm looking forward to tomorrow. 

Q.   With the inch of rain that the course got, you might have expected it to play a lot differently, but it seemed like the balls still had a lot of run on them in the fairway.   How much different was it from maybe Thursday to today? 
RORY SABBATINI:   I'd say the greens were‑‑ they were receptive, but ultimately I think the greens, they were just a little quicker than they have been the previous two days.   I think the combination of that and the wind gusting and playing havoc out there was making it tough.   I think it definitely made it a little tougher to make some putts and hard to really gauge the speed that you wanted to hit your putts. 
But no, the course is in fantastic condition.   I think the wind just for the most part dried out a lot of that moisture.   I think if there's no more rain tonight, we could see definitely an interesting round tomorrow with regards to the condition of the course. 

Q.   Apologize for not looking at your record around here, but have you had much luck at this venue in the past or sniffed it before in previous years? 
RORY SABBATINI:   I think I've had one or two top 10s here.   I think I've always actually had a pretty good record here.

Q.   Like it?
RORY SABBATINI:   Yeah, I do.   I like the course very much.   It sets up very well to my eye.   It's a golf course where you have to be able to maneuver the ball both ways, and that's something I really enjoy doing. 

Q.   Talk about the emotions both you guys have.   Is there a fine line between having a help you and hurt you, and how do you make sure that it's on the positive side and not on the negative side? 
RORY SABBATINI:   Well, if you hit a bad shot and then you hit yourself in the ankle, that would be a hurt you.   (Laughter).
If you hit a bad shot and go and get it up‑and‑down, that's a help you.   That's as fine as the line gets.   It's ultimately‑‑ there's going to be guys that are going to hit shots that are going to get upset, they're going to go and focus on the next one.   If you can let it go and be able to focus on the next shot and still not be thinking of the previous one or shots before or whatever, it's not going to hinder you.   But if you're still stuck on two shots before, yeah, it's definitely going to hinder.

Q.   When you were not playing well in this previous stretch here, were you keeping your emotions‑‑ were you able to‑‑ is that harder to keep your emotions in check? 
RORY SABBATINI:   Well, it's a constant learning curve.   Trust me, I'm far from perfect.   I have all my own demons that I have to deal with just like everybody else does.   The only thing you can do is try to better yourself and try to learn to just manage the way that you are.   That's just, I think, the goal of everybody in this room, everybody at the golf course, everybody watching this golf today.   You ultimately just try to improve yourself. 
COLIN MURRAY:   Rory, thanks for your time.   Good luck tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT