ITALIAN OPEN
October 11, 2019
Rory Sabbatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Round of 70, satisfied with your day's work?
RORY SABBATINI: It was a rough day today. It was the complete opposite of yesterday. Couldn't FIND a fairway. Couldn't buy a green and didn't seem like I could make a putt on the back nine, anyway. But I managed to grind it out. So in all, have to be satisfied with it because it could have been a lot worse.
Q. When you do feel like that, a little frustrated on the golf course, what do you do to manage that?
RORY SABBATINI: Well, you know, today was just -- I know what the cause and effect was of what happened today. Just unfortunate. It's one of those days. Have to flush it down the toilet and come out tomorrow and regroup. Kind of got in my own way out there and mentally was creating a roadblock for myself. Got to mentally refocus tomorrow and swing the club.
Q. When you say get in your own way, what do you mean by that?
RORY SABBATINI: It's kind of like driving a race car with the emergency brake on. You're trying to drive but you're not letting it go. I just unfortunately made one bad swing early in the round and I kind of started guiding the golf ball around the course here, and obviously this is a course, the more you guide it, the tighter the course gets.
As I said, I got in my own way mentally. I couldn't get myself to release the club and hit the shots I was trying to hit.
Tomorrow, come out, get a good warp warm-up and get back to normal.
Q. You talked yesterday about trying to minimise the stress. How well did you do that on day two?
RORY SABBATINI: Today was not a good day. It was pretty much the complete opposite of yesterday's round. Couldn't hit a ball on the fairway. Couldn't find a green. Made a lot of good par-saving putts and then back nine, the putter kind of went cold on me.
But all in all, could have been a lot worse out there. I think I can come off the round being satisfied.
Q. Given the pro sort of psychology when you haven't had your best stuff but you have still posted a number and you're right there heading into the weekend, have to give you confidence?
RORY SABBATINI: Exactly, it's a four-day event, so you're not going to shoot four extremely low rounds. Very rare for that to happen.
I can look at it that today was my bad day. I just made one bad swing early in the round and just started guiding the ball golf around and wasn't a good way to be successful on this course.
Q. Obviously you talked about enjoying your time so far in Italy. What does it mean to be competing on The European Tour?
RORY SABBATINI: It's fantastic. It's a lot of fun. You get to see parts of the world that really have a lot of history. Going to go do some sight seeing this afternoon and have some relaxation and enjoy myself.
Q. I understand Harrington has taken a close look at you and had a Ryder Cup chat. Has it crossed your mind?
RORY SABBATINI: Obviously there's potential and I have a chance, but I'd say between now and then, I've got a lot of good golf that needs to be played. I think the only reason Pádraig is looking at me is because I'm the only one that's close to his age.
I've been playing nicely. My game is finally turning around. I'm back to full strength and full health. I'm starting to get comfortable out on the golf course again, so I'm giving myself opportunities. Putting myself in the mix more and more frequently. Object that breeds confidence and confidence is key in golf.
Q. Schedule-wise, what's your plan upcoming?
RORY SABBATINI: I'm playing here and then I've got Korea, Japan and China the next three weeks. Then a week off and then the final event of the season will be in México. Obviously I'd like to have a good week here and put myself in for a chance in Dubai.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT