HYUNDAI TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 7, 2012
Rory Sabbatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  RORY SABBATINI:   Off to an interesting start for sure.   Yeah, it's the first time ever for me on TOUR.   I know it's the first time for Mick.   I guess neither of us were really paying attention.   We were just getting prepared for the round, and it was just one of those goofy moments.   Golf is an interesting game, sometimes even when you don't expect it.  
   
 Q.   How did you collect yourself after 1, after that start, to get it turned around?   
RORY SABBATINI:   Well, you know what, it is what it is.   There's nothing I can do about it.   You know, it's just a matter of going out there and trying to get the shots back.   I know the course is going to give you some shots back, and just try and make the most of it.   
   
 Q.   Do you look up at a watch or do you just kind of have a feel‑‑ there was no clock up there for you to look at, right?  
RORY SABBATINI:   Well, I don't know.   I didn't really pay any attention, and I wasn't paying any attention to who was the group in front of us.   Mick feels bad about it, and ultimately it's my responsibility more than anybody's because it's my job to be playing golf.   I just‑‑ as I said, it was one of those things, just a goofy moment.   It happens.   Unfortunately it happened today.   But you know what, it was a good day anyway.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the eagle at 5 because that probably kind of turned your round around.   
RORY SABBATINI:   Yeah, we had a couple good holes after that, and then walking up to 5 tee, as Mick said, we were hitting the ball well, we were doing the right things, it was just a matter of making a few putts.   I hit a good drive and hit a 6‑iron in there about 12 feet, 15 feet from the hole, just short left of it, and hit a good putt, went in the middle of the hole, and that kind of really did‑‑ as I said to him after the hole, that kind of eliminated the first tee box, then we just had to eliminate the first green, and that happened on the next hole, so from there it was just a bonus.  
   
 Q.   When did you know you were in trouble?   Did you hear Sean's name being announced and then you said, oh, shoot, I've got to‑‑  
RORY SABBATINI:   No, actually Mick said, oh, I think we're on the tee, and we turned and we both darted on the tee, and right as I got on the tee, Montana came up and said, oh, you're too late.   I don't know, it was a close call, but...  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT