WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 4, 2011
Rory Sabbatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Do you want to just talk about your round today?
 RORY SABBATINI: Yeah, I played nicely. I felt like I drove the ball pretty well on the front nine. Back nine just missed a couple key fairways, but overall was able to put the ball in good positions all day long and give myself some definite opportunities for birdies. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 RORY SABBATINI: The condition of the course, considering how much rain we received over the last two days is actually in fantastic condition. You know, the ball is not rolling out, so the course is definitely playing longer, but you know, overall it's in fantastic condition. The greens are receptive, so it gives you a good opportunity to access a lot of those tucked pins.

 Q. What was working specifically well for you today? 
 RORY SABBATINI: You know, I gave myself a lot of good opportunities from inside of 12 feet for birdie. You know, I really felt like I played well out there and managed the course well, so I was very happy with that.

 Q. What one shot would you like to do over? 
 RORY SABBATINI: You know, I'd probably say two of my bunker shots. I hit two poor bunker shots today that both led to bogeys on par-3s. Obviously on this course with as few a par-5s as there are you can't be giving away shots on par-3s. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 RORY SABBATINI: Obviously I've had fair amounts of success here at Firestone, and I think it's a fantastic golf course. You know, you've definitely got to come out here and hit the ball well. We always know the greens are going to be in fantastic condition, so you're going to make putts. So ultimately it's just how well you control where you place your ball around the course, and as I said, that worked well today, and my game is feeling good with that regard. I'm looking forward to obviously using this to progress further into the weekend.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 RORY SABBATINI: It was fantastic today playing with Arjun. Obviously he's a great guy to play with and a fun guy to be around. We had a good fun day and we were actually talking coming down 18 that our best ball probably would have been in the field today. I think we ended up 12-under best ball. All joking aside, we would have won the pro-am. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT