WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 8, 2011
Rory Sabbatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MARK STEVENS: Rory Sabbatini, thank you for taking the time. You made a great run at it today to get to 14-under. If you want to talk about your round. 
 RORY SABBATINI: You know, the day ended up better than I could have expected. Obviously with the scores that the guys were posting for the first three rounds, I imagined it was going to be pretty difficult to catch them. You know, to go and post a good score on Sunday and still have a chance is obviously exciting and enjoyable. 
 But my hat's off to Quail Hollow; the members and the superintendent and the whole tournament staff really put on a great event this week. The course was in spectacular condition, just absolutely pristine out there. They really went above and beyond this week, and it was a phenomenal event. 

 Q. Can you talk specifically about that stretch on the back nine when you sort of felt like maybe there would be a chance? 
 RORY SABBATINI: You know, I will say I made birdie on 10, and then when I got to I believe it was 13, I saw the scoreboard. I think at that time Jonathan Byrd was at 15, and I was like, well, I'm not going to be able to catch him. So I birdied 14, 15, and then 16, and well, when I birdied 15 I looked at the scoreboard and realized I was only one back, and then obviously birdied 16, and looked up and I was still one back, and this time it was Lucas.
 You know, Lucas, he ground it in, and that's what you have to do sometimes. That's how you win. It's not necessarily the birdies that count. Sometimes it's those pars that you manage to scrounge out that really make the big difference. You know, he made some pretty impressive par saves on the closing stretch there, so my hat's off to him. 

 Q. Where do you feel your game is? You've obviously got to feel confident going into THE PLAYERS. 
 RORY SABBATINI: You know, I was actually extremely excited about my game this week. I played well Thursday, played well Friday, didn't really seem to get anything really rolling in the rounds. But I was hitting quality golf shots, gave myself good opportunities and hitting good putts. And then obviously yesterday and today everything just seemed to click, and that's what it's about. It's just getting that feeling. So going into next week I can take a lot of confidence going in that I'm hitting the ball well, I'm doing all the little things well out there, and that's the goal is to try and improve that consistency. So that is starting to take form. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT