WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 8, 2011
Rory Sabbatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   RORY SABBATINI: The greens are just perfect, so if you hit some shots in there and give yourself some looks at birdies, it's rolling so well that you can definitely make some putts.  
  
  Q. Obviously the type of course that suits you?  
 RORY SABBATINI: You know, I've had mixed results at this course. I always feel like I like this course. I think it's one of my favorites I come to all year. It's just a fantastic golf course. It's just a course really that if you hit the ball well, it rewards you, and that's something I really enjoy.   
  
  Q. Quite an effort today on a Sunday. How was your round today?  
 RORY SABBATINI: You know, honestly if I had have realized that I was coming into today and having such a successful day, I would have probably been more relaxed out there. No, it was a fun day. Obviously any time you can go out there and have a good round on Sunday, it's key out there, and it was definitely fun.  
  
  Q. You said you were feeling it yesterday after you finished the third round. The golf course must have looked very friendly to your eye today.   
 RORY SABBATINI: You know, it did. Honestly, really, even though I only hit half the fairways today, I felt like I drove the ball very well and put myself in the right positions. You know, I'm using the new Burner driver that really is plain awesome, going longer and straighter for me, so I'm really enjoying it.  
  
  Q. The putt on 18, it looked like it was in 99.9 percent of the way there.   
 RORY SABBATINI: Yeah, you know, I didn't think it could stop short, and I was a little shocked to see it do. But I made a good run at it, and that's all you can do. Under the circumstances I'm very pleased with the way I played, and I didn't make it a situation that somebody has got to give the tournament to me today. I played well, and if they beat me, they've out-played me this week, so I have nothing to hang my head about.   
  
  Q. I think you should hang around.   
 RORY SABBATINI: Definitely. I'll hang around and keep my eye on what's going on.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 RORY SABBATINI: Yeah, you know the course was firmer and faster today. It's just in fantastic condition. They've outdone themselves this weekend giving us a golf course that's fantastic. The greens are about as good as you could ever imagine putting on. If you hit the ball in the right spots, give yourself some opportunities at birdies, you know, as long as you're hitting good putts, they're going to go in. That's how good the greens are.  
  
  Q. How much of an advantage is it to post an early number like this, start an hour and 10 minutes before the leaders and you're already in the house?   
 RORY SABBATINI: Well, definitely. Obviously 16, 17, 18 are definitely a tough stretch of holes, so anything can happen there. But I think it's obviously a definite advantage because the guys out there are looking up at the board and they know that I'm done so my score is not going to change, so they've got a target they've got to set their eye on. That can sometimes distract or improve how you play out there, so we'll see what happens.  
  
  Q. Regardless of what happens, how was your round today? Do you feel pretty good?  
 RORY SABBATINI: Really, it was just a fantastic round. It was a very simple round in golfing terms. I put the ball in the right spots, I gave myself opportunities, and my putter just really performed phenomenally today, so I'm extremely happy with the way I played.   
  
  Q. Did you have a number in mind that you wanted to get to?   
 RORY SABBATINI: You know, it's a golf course you can't really predict because you never know. Hopefully it's close to good enough. We'll see what happens.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT