CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK CLASSIC
November 13, 2010
Rory Sabbatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Rory Sabbatini, great finish to your round. 6-under par, but that putt to save par really made a bunch of better days a whole lot better on 18.   
 RORY SABBATINI: Definitely. You never want to leave the course with a bad taste in your mouth, and you know, still gotta try and figure out how to play that last hole, but I've one more attempt tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Two eagles today.   
 RORY SABBATINI: Yeah, you know, these par-5s you gotta take advantage of them, because you know, scoring out here is getting tougher. I gave myself two good opportunities today, and it's great to be able to capitalize on them.  
  
  Q. You sound a lot better. Do you feel a lot better? I talked to you Thursday, and we had to do it from about eight feet away because you were afraid you were going to give me some kind of disease, but you look like you feel a lot better today.   
 RORY SABBATINI: Definitely. My energy has started to come back, so that's always a positive thing going into the weekend, so definitely feel a lot better, and looking forward to tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Couple of special guests with you today, not only your newborn, but some other special guests with you today.   
 RORY SABBATINI: Yeah. Obviously -- what can I say? He's a great guy.   
  
  Q. Your guy's in a para-golfer golf cart, a singular golf cart. That's a cool machine. You were probably a part of creating that, weren't you?  
 RORY SABBATINI: No. Actually, this is his whole deal that he's got going here. It's Stand Up For Golf, Stand Up and Play.   
 It's a fantastic thing, and he's obviously just come back from up in Bethesda and spent some time up there with the guys and getting them out and getting them going again.   
 What a great cause. He's obviously a fellow South African. And obviously came over, he's training the military over here. But you know, just great motivational subject right there.   
  
  Q. I know they're heroes to you. You're a hero to them as well. Go have a great Sunday.   
 RORY SABBATINI: I appreciate it. Thanks.  
  
  Q. Can you give me some details on those two eagles?  
 RORY SABBATINI: Yeah. No. 4, I hit -- drove it in the fairway, hit a 3-wood from about 265 yards out to about 12, 13 feet just left of the hole on the fringe and made the putt.  
 And then on No. 10, drove it in the fairway, hit a 3-iron to about 15 feet and made the putt from behind the hole.  
  
  Q. No problem. Okay. That's all I need. Keep it going. Thanks, man.   
 RORY SABBATINI: Thanks.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT