TURNING STONE RESORT CHAMPIONSHIP
August 6, 2010
Rory Sabbatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. If you put it in one word, the wind today? 
 RORY SABBATINI: Difficult. 

 Q. You birdied two of the last three, what happened on 18?
 RORY SABBATINI: The wind -- there you go. No, you know, the conditions were tough out there, there's no doubt about that. I gave myself opportunities again and unfortunately I didn't capitalize on the par 5s very well again today but I'm getting better. I birdied two of them today, so improving my chances, but no, things are going good. I'm still hitting the ball well. 
 Obviously the wind made it a lot tougher to get close to the holes and give yourself a lot more feasible birdie opportunities, but, you know, I'm still there, close, for the weekend. 

 Q. A lot of players struggled on the back --
 RORY SABBATINI: Those were some very challenging holes. Obviously 13, the water on the right and the wind off the left, it's playing long and difficult with that wind, obviously a tough pin, too. And then 14 and 15, same thing, into the wind, those holes are playing tough. You have to putt the ball in the right spots, and it's key to drive the ball in the fairway, especially on those holes when they are playing longer.

 Q. Do you think the wind will dry out the course and the greens will be a little bit firmer? Do you think it will play any differently? 
 RORY SABBATINI: I think the greens, there's a lot of moisture. I think they are still going to remain very receptive. But the course is in fantastic shape. They have really done a great job with it. You know, if it does firm up a little bit, it's fine. I still think that it's going to be -- there's going to be pins that are going to be very accessible. If you're putting the balls in the right spots, you can be aggressive out there. 

 Q. You've been talking about the conditions; would you have been disappointed if you had not birdied two of the last three and come in --
 RORY SABBATINI: Well, it was a little bit of a frustrating day for myself today. Obviously I gave myself a couple of good birdie opportunities and decided to try and bury the ball into the back of the hole with authority, and it didn't quite work out very well. So I missed some putts out there that typically I would expect myself to get a better opportunity on and I just eliminated that with some poor putting. All things considered, hanging in there. 

 Q. Was the wind a factor on the greens in any way? Did you have to stand away or anything?
 RORY SABBATINI: Obviously it was in the back of your mind, I had a couple of putts out there where the wind was just at the right angle and with my stance and everything, that made it that you had to be concerned about the ball moving. So you found yourself rushing the putts a little bit. 
 It was definitely a challenging day. Have to wait and see what the weekend holds. 

 Q. What does it do for your confidence going into the weekend, being right there? 
 RORY SABBATINI: Well, being there before, and you know, as I said, I really like the layout of the golf course. It's a very comfortable layout for me, and you know, it's not often you get on a golf course where it seems like a lot of the holes visually fit for you. It's one of those courses where the majority of the holes do that and allows me to be a little more aggressive out there, obviously when you're more worried about your misses and trying to be aggressive, you feel comfortable out there. 
 It definitely promotes hitting some better shots and giving yourself some more scoring opportunities. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT