THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY MORGAN STANLEY
June 3, 2010
Rory Sabbatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You always seem to play particularly well. Is there a particular reason why you enjoy playing the course and maybe why it might suit your game? 
 RORY SABBATINI: You know, I just like the golf course. I think it's probably one of the best golf courses we play on any tournament. There's nothing tricky about it. Everything is out there in front of you. 
 You know exactly what you've got to do out here. It's just about placing the ball in the right spots. I seem to enjoy that type of golf. 

 Q. When you have a delay -- and you've had a couple of delays in this round -- how does that affect the player? Especially at the elite level where it's about finding a rhythm and keeping in that rhythm. When you have those delays, how do you guys go about trying to get back into your best form? 
 RORY SABBATINI: I think pretty much you just have to find something to distract you, find something, whatever it is, go read the newspaper, do whatever, just to keep your mind off what you're doing out there. That way you're not burning any mental energy and wasting any energy on thinking about things. 
 So, you know, you try and find ways to stay fresh. 

 Q. From what I understand here, pretty easy to do, good food and all that? 
 RORY SABBATINI: Definitely, definitely. It's a fantastic place. 

 Q. Nothing tricky, you say, today. But what were you able to do to make it as easy as it could be for you? 
 RORY SABBATINI: You know, I drove the ball well today. You know, I'm using the new TaylorMade Superfast driver. It's been working very well for me. I managed to drive the ball well. From there, I was very fortunate today to hit all 18 greens. 
 If you can hit all 18 greens in regulation, you're going to give yourself a lot of opportunities. You know, as good as these greens roll, you've got to take advantage of it sometimes. 

 Q. So obviously the wet play didn't affect your approach shots whatsoever? Was it wet out there as far as the fairways and what have you? 
 RORY SABBATINI: Definitely. It's still a little moist out there. They've improved the drainage over the years. And the course, considering the amount of rain that came down last night, I think it's in great shape. 
 You know what it's going to be when you come here. You know what to expect. This time of year, obviously for Ohio is a testing time, especially with the weather. You've just got to remain patient out there. 
 You're going to have a few mud balls in there from time to time, but you know, you've just got to be patient and you know you're going to get them. You can't act surprised. 

 Q. Course play a little longer today? 
 RORY SABBATINI: Definitely played a little longer today. Obviously, there's a little wind starting to pick up now. Hopefully that will dry the course up and help it play a little faster again. 

 Q. It's been a lean year for you this year. Is there something you've found recently to improve your play? 
 RORY SABBATINI: It's been a frustrating year for the fact I feel like I've been doing all the right things and putting in the time and just haven't been finding the recipe yet. 
 You know, it's nice to come back here to a course I know and enjoy playing. 
 As I said, successful out there today in getting my way around the golf course and giving myself a lot of opportunities. Made it pretty stress free. It's maybe hopefully get a few things kick started here. 

 Q. Did you read the newspaper? Is that what you did? 
 RORY SABBATINI: I was playing video games. 

 Q. Which video games of choice? 
 RORY SABBATINI: I don't know what it's called. My son's game. 

 Q. You said that was the first time you've hit all 18 greens on the tour? 
 RORY SABBATINI: I think that might be the first time in my career on Tour. 

 Q. What went through your mind while you were out there? Were you thinking about it? 
 RORY SABBATINI: Obviously, when I stepped up on the 18 box, it was my second to last hole of the day. It's a tough little green to hit. I had to hunker down and really focus and grind it out. It's like I really want to try and achieve this today. I managed to get it done. 
 Obviously, the key is putting the tee shot on the fairway, and I managed to do that. That simplified that for me. 
 You know, it was fun. 

 Q. You had said that you hadn't -- you'd missed the last couple of Memorials. Did it just not fit in your schedule at the time? 
 RORY SABBATINI: Obviously, it had come at the tail end of five- or six-week stretch. You know, it was definitely a tough decision to make, because I do enjoy playing the course here. I've had very good success here. 
 So to skip it was definitely something I didn't enjoy doing, but felt I needed to. And then this year it was like, you know what, I need to go back to playing the course. I like playing here, and hopefully it will get something spurred on for the rest of the year. 

 Q. I was wondering, I know you're currently involved with injured soldiers. How did you spend your Memorial Day, and what does Memorial Day mean to you? 
 RORY SABBATINI: I spent Memorial Day flying up here. I didn't get to do too much except see the inside of an airplane. Obviously, it's important. 
 You know, it's a great celebration of men and women that go and put themselves out of harm's way. You know, it's just -- it's great to see people celebrate and celebrate these people, you know, that are overseas or passed away or have served in the past. 

 Q. Did you get home much? 
 RORY SABBATINI: You know, I've been home this past -- I didn't go home this past December, but three previous consecutive Decembers, I was home. 

 Q. Does it mean much to you that South Africa is hosting the World Cup? 
 RORY SABBATINI: I think it's a wonderful thing for South Africa. Hopefully, they'll definitely enjoy it and really have fun with it and help -- obviously help the country out. 

 Q. Where did you get the belt buckle? 
 RORY SABBATINI: I had a guy make it for me up in Rhode Island. 

 Q. What is that? 
 RORY SABBATINI: This is a dragon. 

 Q. Thanks a lot. 
 RORY SABBATINI: Sure, no problem. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT