HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 20, 2010
Rory Sabbatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Round 2-under 68 with a two and a half hour respite between some of those shots. Talk about your day.   
 RORY SABBATINI: A pretty dismal round of golf. I didn't hit many fairways and missed a few greens and wore my short game out there. Made things tough on myself and kept it interesting, but I managed to scramble around and get in the clubhouse with 2-under, so I didn't do any damage, and I've got to go do some work now and try and get things sorted out for tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Is that frustrating when it's not raining and there is lightening in the area and you know that you can't go out there?   
 RORY SABBATINI: You know, they're trying to keep us safe, they don't want us or the spectators getting hurt, and it's completely understandable, and the situation is, as we know, this time of year in north Texas the weather can get suspicious and crazy, so better to be safe than sorry.   
  
  Q. Talk about Byron Nelson, what he meant to you -- you're the defending champion of this tournament -- and one of the great gentlemen of the game.   
 RORY SABBATINI: Definitely, obviously I think everybody that played golf knows the name Byron Nelson and everything he's done in the game of golf, and also just as a philanthropist here in north Texas and here with the Salesmanship Club and everything they've got going with the school.   
 The opportunities they're providing are fantastic, so to be here representing it in the form that I am is just an honor and a pleasure.   
  
  Q. How did you feel about your game today?   
 RORY SABBATINI: Obviously I shot 2 under, but I'd say the way I played was dismal. I hit the ball terribly and drove it terribly and missed way too many fairways and far too many greens, and I got fortunate and managed to take advantage of a few holes coming in, but obviously that will wear out real quick on this golf course, so I better go do some work and get the swing and the clubs working the way I want them to and be prepared for tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Despite playing bad by your own admission, still 2-under is within striking distance of the leader.   
 RORY SABBATINI: Oh, anybody watching would have been completely baffled as to how I shot 2-under, but I advanced myself up there and stayed in position, so if I can get my ball striking going and keep putting well, I have an opportunity.   
  
  Q. For the players, what are the imperative things to keep you guys focused on the round during a weather delay, what do you need to get done?   
 RORY SABBATINI: I don't know if there is anything to try to get done. One of the key things is keep our mind off what you're doing and just let your brain relax for a while.   
 If you get caught up too much in what you're thinking, you might stress yourself out a little bit.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT