BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2019
Rory Sabbatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Another good day Rory, 4-under, 68.  If we can get some comments on your play.
RORY SABBATINI: Yeah, again, for the most part played very solid today, limited my mistakes, kept the ball in play and, you know, just try to give myself opportunities out there.
So, I managed to do that and the conditions were a little tougher with the wind today but this course is drying out, starting to get a little faster.  It's going to get interesting, come the weekend.
Q. You've been consistent all year.  I mean is this sort of up what you've been doing, you kind of seem to hang around?
RORY SABBATINI: Just -- that was kind of my goal, just work on my consistency, trying to be more consistent and done a lot of work on my putting to make that more consistent for me.  So, it's made the rest of the game feel a little less stressful.  Not putting as much pressure on myself with putting.
Q. Any key saves today?
RORY SABBATINI: Oh, yeah, obviously a couple of key saves.  I made a good one on 18.  I made a great one on 13, the par 3.  Made about a 10 or 11-foot putt there for par.  Yeah.
You got to make those putts to keep -- kind of keep momentum going out there and it was good.
Q. Rory, I said if I could sell you 67 yesterday you would buy it.  You had to settle for 68.  Two good days, though.
RORY SABBATINI: I'll take them.  The course, it's a challenge.  Conditions are getting tougher, it's getting dryer.  They set a couple more pins little more aggressive on us today, little more tight.  I think come the weekend it's going to get interesting.
Q. If we don't get rain tonight, the way the course was evolving today, good or bad for how you want to attack it?
RORY SABBATINI: Good.  Make the course tougher.  Definitely making the course a little firmer so you can push a drive up a little bit more.  Some of the holes it seemed a little bit more daunting.
The other part of it is the greens get firmer.  Some of those pins that you feel like you can really fire at becoming more -- a little bit more susceptible to making mistakes.
Q. Keep them in the 60s tomorrow.  Appreciate your time.
RORY SABBATINI: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT