SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 10, 2008
Rory Sabbatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Just a couple comments on the round.  Obviously a huge difference between last week and this week course-wise.  How did you adapt? 
 RORY SABBATINI:  Well, obviously the weather was definitely very favorable today with hardly any wind this morning.  You know, you can obviously see the course is playing tough just with the setup.  The rough is definitely up, and if you hit it, it's penalizing.  But all things considered, I'm extremely happy with my position so far. 
 Even though I didn't drive the ball as well as my stats showed today, I felt like I hit the ball very well.  I'm just giving myself a lot of opportunities out there for birdies.  Obviously that's key out here. 

 Q.  Can you just take us through a couple highlights, the birdies and the keys to those? 
 RORY SABBATINI:  Obviously I birdied 2 today.  I hit a good drive with a 3-wood in the fairway and hit a wedge to about ten feet or so. 
 And then I birdied No. 9.  I drove it in the fairway and hit a 5-iron to about probably 35 feet, two-putted that one. 
 And then birdied 11, hit a 6-iron to about ten feet. 
 Birdied 12, hit a 3-wood off the tee, hit an 8-iron in there to probably about seven, eight feet again. 
 And then obviously made eagle on 18.  I hit a 3-wood off the tee and hit a 3-iron in there to probably about 15, 18 feet and made that. 

 Q.  Lastly, as you enter 2008, do you bring with you a set of goals?  Are you more just kind of a see-what-happens, see-how-things-unfold? 
 RORY SABBATINI:  Obviously I've got a whole new bag this year and new equipment, new ball, everything like that.  I'm not expecting too much.  I'm kind of taking it easy, just trying to get comfortable.  Fortunately for me it's been a pretty easy adaption.  My equipment especially, with the Adams irons and the Callaway ball, have just been a phenomenal addition to my bag and have just been extremely forgiving and just extremely well-performing golf clubs. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT