THE PRESIDENTS CUP
September 28, 2007
Trevor Immelman
Rory Sabbatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Do you say mission accomplished? 
 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  If you're 2-up with three to play, you know, you're not always feeling great.  But Woody played some incredible golf in the last three holes.  You know, thankfully my partner stood up and holed that putt.  That's one of the greatest pressure putts I've seen anybody make. 

 Q.  From a team standpoint, was that a good day for you. 
 RORY SABBATINI:  Obviously I think we moved in the right direction today.  You know, there's two more days and anything can happen. 

 Q.  Obviously I have to talk on the situation on the 14th with Woody Austin.  What was your reaction when you saw Woody good in the water? 
 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  It was real funny.  Obviously it wasn't for him, but he took it in great spirits.  It just shows what a great player he is, because he bounced back from there and got his thoughts and his emotions together and played really well. 

 Q.  And are you playing together again tomorrow? 
 RORY SABBATINI:  Have to wait and see what the captains say, but I think chances are pretty good. 

 Q.  Obviously a lot different day for the International Team, and for you guys, talk about the match; we saw everything in this match, didn't we? 
 RORY SABBATINI:  We definitely saw a few things happen on the golf course today that I had never seen before.  It was a good day and we both played well.  Obviously Woody was playing well down the end and it's just hard to determine the winner sometimes. 

 Q.  You still got a halve, you have to be happy with that. 
 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Well, when you're 2-up with three to play, you'd like to close it out.  I had a look at it at 16 and we both had a couple looks at 17.  He just missed out.  But, you know, all credit to Woody.  He stepped up to the plate and holed those putts.  It was some great golf for him to finish. 

 Q.  Huge shot for you on 18, you saw him stick it there and you stuck it right back. 
 RORY SABBATINI:  That's the beauty about match play, you have to play the course, you can't play the other person.  You have to really focus on what you're doing.  I just thought, let's try to go up there and make a birdie, and that's what we focused on. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT