THE BARCLAYS
August 24, 2007
Rory Sabbatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   RORY SABBATINI:  Yeah, I didn't hit the ball very well out there today.  Left myself a lot of work and never really got the ball in position on the greens and that's pretty key out there.  You can't spend all day being defensive with the putter, but that's how it went.   
  
  Q.  Good news is you're still leading the tournament and had a pretty good round despite all that?   
 RORY SABBATINI:  Yeah, obviously I'm a few back going into the weekend behind K.J.   
 But this is a golf course, we all see it, just one shot here can be a major downfall.  It's just going to be a situation of plodding along on the weekend and making birdies where they come.   
  
  Q.  What was it like playing with K.J. today?   
 RORY SABBATINI:  K.J. played great today.  He put himself in great position and, you know, that's obviously the key thing out there, putting yourself in the right positions, on the fairways and on the greens.   
  
  Q.  Did the rain do anything to this course?   
 RORY SABBATINI:  Yeah, it's drying out pretty well right now.  If anything it's a little tougher out there now than it was yesterday.  You get a lot of mud balls out there, so that makes it tough for that reason.   
  
  Q.  Were you way behind the group ahead of you?   
 RORY SABBATINI:  It was like we were right behind them and then they got put on the clock and left us behind so we had to try and catch up.   
 It wasn't frustrating, it was just the situation that I really was just trying to work hard to make a score out there today and just wasn't able to quite get it done.   
  
  Q.  You were really frustrated on 2, you hit your putter; was that a microcosm of how you were feeling, especially on the greens today?   
 RORY SABBATINI:  Yeah, obviously had a bad day on the greens.  Seemed like I was hitting good putts but just couldn't get good reads and just was in the wrong positions all day.   
 Like I said, you putt defensively all day, it's going to catch up to you.   
  
  Q.  We asked you yesterday about what level you see yourself on; when you see K.J., is he like in that same category, knocking on the door of being one of those elite players?   
 RORY SABBATINI:  Yeah, definitely, there's obviously a handful of guys out there and it's just a matter of time before one of them break through.   
  
  Q.  How hard is it to follow up a great round like you had yesterday?   
 RORY SABBATINI:  It adds pressure to you because you played well the day before and you come out here when things are not going the same way, you put more pressure on yourself trying to make a score happen and you can't do that.  You know, for some reason, I just never put myself in the right places.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT