WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 5, 2007
Rory Sabbatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  You ran into a real buzz saw today.   
 RORY SABBATINI:  You know, I just made too many mental mistakes, put myself in too many difficult positions.  This golf course, as tough as it is, if you're putting added difficulty on yourself, you're making it impossible out there.  You know, I never put any pressure on Tiger, never forced the issue, and basically he got far enough ahead he could just cruise.  In a sense, I just played into his game.  But a frustrating day, and we'll try it again next week.   
  
  Q.  If someone had to shoot 64, 65, that would have been a tall order under today's conditions?   
 RORY SABBATINI:  Actually the thing is, in a sense, the only part of the course that really got more difficult today was the rough.  The greens were actually more receptive, so you were actually able to be a little more aggressive to the flags.  Anything is possible, but the situation is the result stands.   
  
  Q.  The 4th hole with the two-shot swing, did you figure you were in trouble?   
 RORY SABBATINI:  No, I didn't think I was in trouble there.  Obviously a two-shot swing, but still, this golf course is enough that you hit one shot off-line, and it can end in a catastrophe.  Tiger, every time he seemed to get in trouble would make some kind of miraculous recovery.   
  
  Q.  This is the second time this year that you and Tiger have gone head to head that I have covered, and he's won and you've lost.  Do you have any new philosophy or any plan for that?   
 RORY SABBATINI:  No, just keep doing the same thing I've been doing, except in the final round just get my job done.  I haven't done that the last two times.  Today was especially frustrating because even though I looked like I struggled out there, I hit a lot of good, quality golf shots.  I spent too much of the day trying to hack the ball back out of the fairway, and it made a long day.   
  
  Q.  You've always been confident in yourself.  Do you think maybe in the future you would just keep that to yourself when you're playing against Tiger?   
 RORY SABBATINI:  Why?   
  
  Q.  Well, it could serve as a motivation for him.  He seems to play really well --   
 RORY SABBATINI:  Well, good, I hope I inspire him.  I hope I inspire him and play well enough that I can give him a good challenge.   
  
  Q.  The guy on the 9th hole, I guess you pointed him out and they led him off, was that just -- he didn't seem to be that -- he didn't curse or anything.   
 RORY SABBATINI:  Well, you know, the situation is we're out here to do our job.  Let us do our job.  You know, even on 18 there, the guys being very insulting towards Kenny Perry's first putt.  Have a little bit of decorum and a little bit of class out there.  That's the way it's supposed to be.  But I guess a few too many beers were talking.   
  
  Q.  What do you think of Tiger's game now?   
 RORY SABBATINI:  Today he played significantly better than he did in the final round at Wachovia.  He struck the ball better.  He made all the shots he needed to.  You know, he was definitely playing a lot better golf today than five, six weeks ago, whatever that was.   
  
  Q.  Did you wear the belt with the skull for inspiration for yourself?   
 RORY SABBATINI:  No, just like the belt.   
  
  Q.  It's pretty cool.   
 RORY SABBATINI:  Thanks.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT