WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 3, 2007
Rory Sabbatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thanks, Rory, for joining us for a few minutes here in the media center at the Bridgestone Invitational.  Another round of 67, good start, good position going into the weekend.  Do you think anybody can catch you this afternoon?   
 RORY SABBATINI:  You know, obviously the greens are in great shape, so if I can get the ball in the fairway and get it on the green, give yourself some opportunities, you're going to make some putts out there.  Golf is a funny game, but anything is possible.   
  
  Q.  The back nine here is far tougher, I think, than the front.  But you kind of mastered that back nine.  15, 16 you had birdies, two of the hardest holes -- three of the last four holes.  What was the key today for your mastery of them?   
 RORY SABBATINI:  Obviously 15, I hit a good tee shot.  The pin is actually in a pretty accessible position there today, in the kind of middle left side of the green, so anything middle of the green just short of the hole gives you a good uphill chance at it.   
 I hit a good tee shot there.   
  
  Q.  What did you use?   
 RORY SABBATINI:  I hit a 5-iron.   
  
  Q.  To about how far?   
 RORY SABBATINI:  About 20 feet.   
 And then 16, I hit a good drive, and that's the key.  If you can put the drive in the right position -- I was definitely in a reachable position to get to the green in two, but that's just a whole lot -- I don't think is a reasonable opportunity of getting to the green in two, because even if you get over the water there's no way to hold the green.  So I laid up with an 8-iron and left myself about 95 yards to the hole.   
 It's a matter of picking and choosing your targets out there.  There's just opportunities that you have that you can be aggressive, but you have to kind of back down and just give the course respect, otherwise it'll hit you pretty quickly.   
  
  Q.  How long was your putt on 16?   
 RORY SABBATINI:  That one was probably about 18 feet, 15 to 18 feet.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about 17?   
 RORY SABBATINI:  17, just hit a 2-iron off the tee right to the base of the hill and left myself, I think, right around 150 yards to the hole and just -- the pin is back right, so the only place you can't hit it is right and long.  Hit a nice solid 8-iron in there probably about 12 feet just right of the hole.   
  
  Q.  Obviously the adjustments you made to your swing held up.   
 RORY SABBATINI:  Yeah, obviously -- today I didn't quite hit the ball as well as I did yesterday.  I hit a couple more drives today in that thick hay they call rough out there (laughter), but it's -- it was just a little more of a grind today, a little more work.  I think the positive thing I can take out of it is that I did battle out there today and came out on top.   
  
  Q.  If somebody told you we'll give you two more 67s if you go home, would you take your chances?   
 RORY SABBATINI:  With that on the weekend?   
  
  Q.  Yes.   
 RORY SABBATINI:  I'd take that with that $1.35 million in a heartbeat (laughter).  If I shoot 12-under, I'm winning, there's no doubt in my mind.  I don't see anybody beating 12-under on this golf course.  The way I look at it is I'd take even money right now shooting even par on the weekend.  The course is only going to get tougher.  We've been very fortunate that we really haven't had any wind.  If there's wind on this golf course, it's going to become almost impossible to play because as it is right now, there's probably three or four fairways out there -- the fairways are rolling at 14 (laughter).  If you hit the ball in the fairway on a couple holes, you know straight away it's in the rough.   
  
  Q.  Which one is the worst one?   
 RORY SABBATINI:  I don't know.  I'm guessing 4 is going to be an absolute brute this weekend because I've been hitting 3-wood off the tee there and trying to land it on the flat spot, and still, it's bouncing in the left rough.   
  
  Q.  I just wanted to ask you about what you were talking about yesterday about figuring out your swing in an hour and a half.  The average golfer at home would be amazed by that, but is that not all that unusual?   
 RORY SABBATINI:  You know, I've always been very good at adapting my swing very quickly, making small or even large adjustments very fast.  You know, we weren't that far off track of where we wanted to be, we just had a little breakdown in the swing, and it was just causing a chain reaction.  So it was basically we eliminated one thing and then eliminated the rest.  So it was actually a quick fix.   
  
  Q.  Was your caddie mad about the ski bump?   
 RORY SABBATINI:  Yeah, after we finished the tournament last week, he said, that's it, dude.  If you ever give anybody a head start like that again, I'm going to beat you.   
 JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you.  Did you go through your entire round?   
 RORY SABBATINI:  No, I didn't.   
 JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Let's do that.  Birdie on 1.   
 RORY SABBATINI:  2-iron off the tee, had about 144 yards to the hole, hit a 9-iron about 15 feet behind it, made that.   
 Birdie on 5, hit 6-iron to about 12 feet, made that, just short left of the hole.   
 Bogey on 6, drove it in the right rough, hacked it out of the hay just short of the green, chipped it up to about 12 feet, missed it.   
 Bogey on 14, hit 3-wood off the tee, left rough, hit a 7-iron up just short of the green, chipped it to about 12 feet and missed it.   
 15, birdie, 5-iron off the tee to about 20 feet, made it.   
 16, driver, first cut left rough, 8-iron to about 95 yards, sand wedge to about 15 feet.   
 17, 2-iron off the tee, 8-iron to about 10, 12 feet, made birdie.   
 JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT