THE DEUTSCHE BANK PLAYERS' CHAMPIONSHIP OF EUROPE
July 28, 2007
Rory Sabbatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Why the difference between the first round and the last two?   
 RORY SABBATINI:  Good eraser on the pencils, it's a good way to shave numbers (laughs). No, seriously, we struggled the first day, weren't swinging well and didn't make any putts. Came out yesterday and did some work on the range with the video camera and got the swing back on track where it is supposed to be and it has turned things around. Today I hit 17 greens and the only bogeys I made were three putts so that is a good start.   
  
  Q.  Have you come back from that position before?   
 RORY SABBATINI:  No. The way I look at it is that I gave them enough of a head start and had my work cut out for me. I had to play hard.   
  
  Q.  How do you feel now - are you in this mix or will players pull away?   
 RORY SABBATINI:  Definitely I am in the mix. You never know if the weather will hold but this gives them something to think about. They will be looking in the rear view mirror rather than in the parking lot.   
  
  Q.  Enjoy the company?   
 RORY SABBATINI:  Definitely. Unfortunately Retief is a little talkative out there but other than that we had a good time.   
  
  Q.  How well do you know him?   
 RORY SABBATINI:  I don't know him that well. He grew up playing amateur golf with my brother in South Africa so I know him a little bit. He is an absolute gentleman out there and a pleasure to play with. Funnily enough our paths have hardly crossed in the States. He has been on the high life and I have been on the loud life.   
  
  Q. Was it one of those days you spurred each other on?   
 RORY SABBATINI:  We did. We were both hitting the ball well and at times, like the stretch on 10, 11 and 12, where both of us hit it really close and we watched putts slide right by which was bewildering. But it kept the atmosphere pretty light.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT