THE DEUTSCHE BANK PLAYERS' CHAMPIONSHIP OF EUROPE
July 25, 2007
Rory Sabbatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RORY SABBATINI 
 THE MODERATOR:  Thanks so much for coming in and joining us.  Is this your first trip to Germany as well?  
 RORY SABBATINI: First trip to Germany. 
 THE MODERATOR:  What are your expectations coming into this week?  
 RORY SABBATINI: Honestly, to go out and have some fun and hopefully put up some good numbers and really don't have any particular goals for this week.  But I don't really make any set plans going in -- 
 THE MODERATOR:  You have won on the US PGA Tour at Colonial and enjoying a good season at the moment.  Things are going well for you?  
 RORY SABBATINI: It's been a good year.  So every year doesn't seem to work out that way.  But this one's been exceptional.  And hopefully looking forward to capitalizing off with maybe a couple of wins.  So far enjoying it very much my time here in Germany.  And I'd like to thank Deutsche Bank and Audi and everybody involved.  They run a very, obviously one of the more exceptional events I've ever seen on the European Tour.  It's fun to be here. 
 THE MODERATOR:  A couple days you've been here, been in town?  
 RORY SABBATINI: I've been walking around and checking out Hamburg.  Beautiful city.  Seeing the sites and relaxing. 

 Q.  The sun, the rain, could the weather hamper the weekend? 
 RORY SABBATINI: I think the course is pretty well ready.  It will make the course long.  It makes the flags on the green very visible.  I think it's going to be (indiscernible), but it's a beautiful course.  From what I've seen so far I think it can handle its own when it comes to the weather.  So I don't really think it will be an issue.  

 Q.  As one of the highest ranked players here do you consider yourself one of the favorites? 
 RORY SABBATINI: I don't consider -- golf is a funny game.  It's one that any given week, any player can win it.  I'm going to go out there and just try to play one shot at a time and see what happens. 

 Q.  There's been some discussion about doping recently.  What are your thoughts about that and general controls in golf? 
 RORY SABBATINI: Obviously I'm not on the Tour de France, I'm not too worried about doping.  But some of the comments that have been made, I really, you know, I don't believe there are guys that are doing that.  I find that hard to believe.  I don't see from a standpoint in male golf how any kind of steroids like that could be beneficial to the game.  It's a game of finesse, game of touch.  I don't know how promoting more aggression is going to help your golf game any.  I think the situation is golfers are just more athletic now.  Obviously you look at the guys are coming in now over six foot two playing golf.  I'm guessing there's guys taller.  And I guess that's probably one of the reasons.  I don't see it as people doing drugs. 

 Q.  I agree with you entirely.  A little are dismayed to hear Gary Player making the comments he made last week.  What's your take on that as well?  
 RORY SABBATINI: I think the situation is two things:  Someone comes to you in confidentiality, keep it confidential.  An, if you're going to say something, don't say half of it.  You know, it's either be quiet and let things be or spill the beans.  
So, I don't know.  You know, if guys want to take steroids to improve their golf game, go for it.  I don't think it's going to help them.  Whatever.  I'm not a person that gets too concerned with getting involved with trying to improve performance.  If there was something in a pill I'm sure all of us would want it.  I can't imagine one or two guys taking it.  I don't know.  It's a sad thing to see around a sport that's really not giving it any relevance.  

 Q.  Have you had a chance to play the course yet?  
 RORY SABBATINI: I've played holes 1, 2, 3, 7, 8, 9. 

 Q.  A bit of catching up to do.  
 RORY SABBATINI: I'm looking for some advice from my partners today.  I'm hoping they can give me a little insight into the golf course.  I'm pretty comfortable the fact that I'll have a pretty good understanding of the golf course.  I'm just trying to focus more on my ability to control the ball and the result of where it ends.  I think that's the facet of the game, doesn't matter how well you know the golf course, if you don't hit the ball where you want, it's not going to get where it needs to be. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you for coming in.  



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT