THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 11, 2007
Rory Sabbatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   RORY SABBATINI:  On 17, I didn't feel like I had a great tee shot and it trickled off the green and went in the water and I compiled the mistake by hitting poor shots from there.    
  
  Q.  17 was where you felt like you kind of lost it?   
 RORY SABBATINI:  It was just a frustrating day and 17 just kind of put the exclamation mark on it.  I missed a lot of good shots and had a lot of good opportunities for birdies and I just watched them slide past the edge or lip out.   
  
  Q.  You didn't even have a good feeling before 17?   
 RORY SABBATINI:  Well, it was just one of those things where nothing went my way, and there was nothing I could really do about it.  It was just a constant case of frustration out there.  17 was a little bit of a misfortune and I had a couple of mistakes after that.  But on 36 holes, I need to put two low rounds on the weekend and I have a good chance.   
  
  Q.  Give me your reaction to what Tiger said in response to your comments.    
 RORY SABBATINI:  I haven't heard what Tiger said.    
  
  Q.  He said he has as many victories this year as you do in your career.    
 RORY SABBATINI:  Well, you know, hey, if you're going to challenge yourself, you need to challenge yourself against the best.  Tiger is the best, and that's why I'm challenging myself against him.   
  
  Q.  Do you like the little playful banter back and forth?  Obviously he must have took it as somewhat of a dig, but you seem to play along with it.    
 RORY SABBATINI:  I never think it's a dig at Tiger.  I never intended it as a dig at Tiger.  It basically stated that I want to compete against him.  He's the No. 1 player in the world and I think that's why I want to contend.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)   
 RORY SABBATINI:  Honestly from the tee was probably five or six feet left of the flag, and I maybe saw it coming back down the slope to the front of the green.  But I was pretty amazed to see the ball go in the water.  It's just one of those things that I guess there's been quite a few guys that have had a similar situation like that.  It's just a new green, hopefully the area will redevelop and hopefully that will stop happening.   
  
  Q.  Were you going for the hole or did you miss it -- what were you going for?   
 RORY SABBATINI:  I was trying to hit it ten feet right of the flag, and there was a little more wind right-to-left than I realized, and even at that point when it landed and started on back, I thought it was fine.    
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT