THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2007
Rory Sabbatini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  How much of a factor was the wind out there today?   
 RORY SABBATINI:  Obviously it was extremely difficult.  You know, just the wind was gusting and it would die down, so you never quite knew at which moment it was going to do either, so you just really had to try and be patient and try and hit shots, regardless of whether the wind blew or died down, that would be consistent.   
  
  Q.  Did it feel like a different course at all after all the changes?   
 RORY SABBATINI:  You know, the course is definitely playing a lot firmer and a lot faster, almost for me just seems a little easier this year.  But the greens are definitely a lot firmer, a lot tougher to get the ball in the scoring position around the holes.  We'll just obviously see as the week goes on, it's going to get tougher.   
  
  Q.  Do you feel in any way that this course owes you?   
 RORY SABBATINI:  I obviously haven't had the best track record here the past couple years, but then again, neither had I at The Masters.  But it's a new year, a new start, and hopefully a new result.   
  
  Q.  Does it surprise you that so many guys haven't been able to do what you did today?   
 RORY SABBATINI:  You know, it's just the conditions are tough out there.  It's going to test everyone's patience.  You know, it's just one of those days where things seemed to happen for me just at the right time, a couple key shots and just kind of kept the round going.  You know, if you don't have these key shots, it definitely makes it a lot harder and more of a grind out there.   
  
  Q.  This course has always identified the guy playing best through his whole bag, his driving, his irons, his putting.  Is it still that way?   
 RORY SABBATINI:  I didn't hit many fairways today, didn't hit many greens, didn't have many putts, so I guess yeah.  Yeah, it is, it's going to put a test on anything, and today more so than normal obviously because you just really -- you're going to have to control your distances so well just because if the wind does die down or the wind does pick up, you know, you don't want to have suddenly a 40- or 50-yard difference.  You really want to try and minimize your distance control out there.   
  
  Q.  As of about an hour ago, 20 balls had been hit in the water at 17.  Is the wind just tricky there, swirling?   
 RORY SABBATINI:  You know, the thing is you stand up on the hole, and I guess it's only playing about 129 yards or something today, but, you know, 129 yards and you're standing there, and you've got a 7- or 8-iron in your hand, and you're thinking, okay, how far do I need to hit this?   
 It is, it's playing very tough out there because the last thing you want to do is try and hit a shot far enough to get to the back and then the wind die on you or try and hit one to the front and have the wind gust on you.  It is, it's going to be a very tough test of patience out there.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT