NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BLACKHAWKS v DUCKS
May 20, 2015
Francois Beauchemin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Francois, have you ever played so many minutes before?
FRANCOIS BEAUCHEMIN:   I can't remember.   I remember in 2001, I ended up playing in a Calder Cup final.   That year we lost 3‑2 in a fourth overtime actually.   I don't know how many minutes I played.   It's funny, they made a T‑shirt about it because it was the longest game in NHL history that we ended up losing unfortunately. 
But those are fun games to play. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
FRANCOIS BEAUCHEMIN:   Yeah, still have the T‑shirt at home. 
I feel good.   Woke up, had a good amount of sleep.   I went to bed as soon as I got home.   Didn't take too long for me to fall asleep. 
Tough one to lose, but at the same time I think we feel good about ourselves.   We had our chances, we just couldn't capitalize on them. 

Q.   After something like that, Beauch, is it tougher to recover mentally or physically? 
FRANCOIS BEAUCHEMIN:   I'll tell you that tomorrow after I see how I feel in the game. 
But I think maybe for some guys mentally it's hard, it's tough to lose, but you've got to get over it. 
We lost one game.   6‑2 game (indiscernible), then a 3‑2 game in third overtime.   We lost it and then we have to move on and focus about tomorrow because, you know, like I said before, the next game is always the biggest one. 

Q.   Is it tougher to put away something like that when you know you're literally inches away from a 2‑0 series lead?
FRANCOIS BEAUCHEMIN:   No, no.   The way I see it, it's more the way we could have won.   We were right there.   It's not hard to move on because, like I said, we had our chances.   It's not like we were really out of it.   Nothing to do with the game. 
It could have been 2‑0, but it's 1‑1 and we're going to Chicago. 

Q.   Do you do anything special dietary‑wise to come back from a game like this?
FRANCOIS BEAUCHEMIN:   Lots of water, fluid, Gatorade, stuff like that, to get your weight back up.   Got to make sure you're well‑hydrated for tomorrow.   If you're not, the legs are going to be burning pretty early. 

Q.   What did they do differently in the game?   Surrounding the net more effectively?
FRANCOIS BEAUCHEMIN:   On their first two power plays, that's what they did.   We expected that.   Fortunately we got those two penalty kills.   Then they were trying to get deflections in the front, and that's how they scored both goals. 
Even in the overtime, it was a puck thrown at the net, went off their guy, the puck was right there behind Freddie. 
Those are battles that we've got to win. 

Q.   Do you feel you have to effectively straddle that line of being physical, but being penalized for being physical?
FRANCOIS BEAUCHEMIN:   Yeah, because five‑on‑five, that's when we're playing at our best.   That's when we burn teams down.   We get in the offensive zone, we get that puck going, we get the cycle game going.   Our big guys are handling the puck. 

Q.   You're such an effective communicator with this team.   Have you said anything to the guys as a group about how you move on from this game?
FRANCOIS BEAUCHEMIN:   Yeah, we talked after the game.   All we said was that we lost one game and we got to get it back in Chicago. 
Like I said, we had a good game.   We played well five‑on‑five.   We got to win those battles in front on the penalty kill and we'll be fine. 

Q.   You obviously played in Chicago and you know what the atmosphere is like.   I would imagine it probably doesn't faze you given where you've played in this post‑season?
FRANCOIS BEAUCHEMIN:   We'll be really excited.   Gets everybody going.   We talked about the atmosphere in Winnipeg and Calgary.   This is even going to be crazier.   I mean, it starts with the national anthem.   It's known for that. 
It doesn't matter if you're home or away, every time you play there you're really excited at the beginning of the game right away. 

Q.   The way their defensemen played so many minutes, those four guys, did you see any sign of fatigue?   Do you feel if it continues to go like this, that that's favorable to you? 
FRANCOIS BEAUCHEMIN:   Yeah, hopefully.   I mean, that's our game plan.   Our game plan is to get the puck in deep and forecheck their D men, finish our checks, play down low. 
You know, they're in good physical shape.   Obviously they've been playing most of the year with four or five defensemen.   They're used to it.   We just got to make sure we keep that puck down low and focus on our offense. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT