DAVIS CUP FINALS
November 21, 2019
Daniel Evans
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GREAT BRITAIN 1, Kazakhstan 1   
BUBLIK/Evans 5-7, 6-4, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: First question.   
 Q.  Dan, that must have been a bit tough to take, having such a good start again and coming close.  
DANIEL EVANS: Yeah, it's difficult. I've obviously had two tough days. It's just difficult.   
Obviously I want to get a point on the board for the guys so then they don't go into this match -- now it's pretty much winner-takes-all, I think. Yes, it's disappointing, obviously. As it is in this format, you've got to get -- you know, you could lose and you could be playing again tomorrow. It's just difficult.   
He's obviously a tough guy to play. And I actually thought I didn't do a lot wrong, I just thought he played pretty good.   
 Q.  Dan, how tough is it to play somebody like that? I guess you're not quite sure sort of what is going to come each time, slamming down. I think one second serve was 133 miles an hour or something.  
DANIEL EVANS: Yeah, I thought I was in control of the match and then obviously he broke me at 4-All and serves were going in. No longer could get as many back in the court and started to hit from the back pretty well.   
 Q.  How valuable has it been for Great Britain to have Andy Murray back in the team? What sort of affect has he had on the team atmosphere?  
DANIEL EVANS: No, it's obviously great to have an extra world-class, you know, Grand Slam winner in the team. Just his presence is great in the team. It gives you confidence that he's there. You know he believes in the team, the competition. And, you know, we're all trying to get through just as much as he is. And, you know, it's great that there's five guys in the team who are fighting to get us through.   
 Q.  Dan, does it make any difference at all going into a Davis Cup tie knowing you're the country's No. 1 player?  
DANIEL EVANS: No. No. I'm still playing the same, the same as I always would. I think I've just come up against two good guys the last two days.   
Yesterday was a tough one. And then obviously today was a pretty unique experience.   
Yeah, it's just difficult to take. But I've got to go and try and get the boys through now in the doubles.   
 Q.  I just would like to ask you about the depths of the team in terms of single, between you, Andy, and Kyle. I mean, in terms of strengths and weaknesses, you look strong on the paper, and on the field as well. I just want to listen to your feeling about this.  
DANIEL EVANS: At the minute, the No. 1 guy is the weak, the weak one at the minute (laughing).   
We've got a great team, you know. We can move it around. Like, Andy didn't play today and then Kyle come in and did a great job getting us 1-0 up.   
And yeah, obviously there's a few different combinations in doubles we can play. I thought the doubles last night was exceptional. And then they've got another hard match now to try and get us through.   
Yeah, I'm really happy with how everyone's been playing and it's great to see everyone fighting so hard on the court.   
 Q.  If the doubles win, it could be Germany in the quarterfinals. Just talk about what they're like. Do you know much of their squad? Do you remember most England-Germany World Cup exits in your lifetime?  
DANIEL EVANS: Yeah, the first one I remember was 1996, obviously. But I think we've got, like, a great team. If Andy plays, that's a strong No. 2 right there. Their No. 1 is pretty dangerous. He's playing really good tennis and, you know, we'll definitely need to stop him.   
I think he's playing probably some of the best tennis he's played. He dispatched of Schwartzman yesterday pretty easily, I think. He's got a dangerous game, a big forehand. I actually played him at Wimbledon one year. So he's really good.   
 Q.  Dan, you've had a long season. You've played a hell of a lot of matches. Do you think that has had any affect here? Or has it just been the guys that you've played against?  
DANIEL EVANS: No, like, playing on a fast indoor hard court, I've played two huge guys who have, you know, served well and I just haven't come out on top. If I'm needed again, I'll put my game on the court and I'll try to get us through. If I'm not, that's all good as well. I'll be there on the side supporting whoever's playing.   
 Q.  About the doubles for your team. Actually, we saw some great matches from the Murray brothers. I just would like to know, I'm not sure about the team yet of the doubles, but is it any plan of the brothers coming in?  
DANIEL EVANS: I mean, I don't really know. I just saw -- I saw the doubles team warming up, so I don't know who's going to play. Yesterday, I also saw them warming up and I didn't know who was going to play. So I have no idea. I've come here with John and that was it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT