QATAR EXXONMOBIL OPEN
March 9, 2021
Daniel Evans
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  D. EVANS/J. Chardy
 6-4, 1-6, 6-2
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. Where did you find the energy to make that strong third-set performance, Dan?
 DANIEL EVANS:   I think I just got a little unlucky in the second, and then it turned into a pretty flat set.  Then it wasn't such a physical match.  I felt pretty fresh at the end of the match, so it was good to get through and, yeah, it's always good to win, yeah.
 Q. You're obviously playing Roger in the next round.  You are in quite a unique position, I suppose, as someone who practiced with him a couple of years ago before he had his injury and you had a little block with him now.  I was wondering if you had noticed any kind of differences having spent time with him and how you feel your game will come up against him.
 DANIEL EVANS:   No, I mean, we obviously practiced for two weeks, last two weeks, and, you know, I thought he was playing pretty well.  We played plenty of sets.  It was competitive.
 But, you know, it's all very different when you get on the match court, as I found out today.  You know, I wasn't perfect out there, and I had been playing pretty well in practice.  You know, it will be a lot different tomorrow.  It's going to be at night, as well, so a little slower.  So we'll see how the match goes.
 Q. You're used to being watched by other coaches.  Was it strange to have Roger himself watching you during that match?
 DANIEL EVANS:   I guess so, a little.  I mean, he obviously has seen a lot of my game the last few weeks, so I guess I would say it was more out of boredom.  He's probably a bit waiting for his practice than scouting out what's happening on the court, you know.  Let's put it down to that (smiling).
 Q. In your practice sessions with him, have you seen any sort of changes in Roger or noticed anything about him?
 DANIEL EVANS:   No, it's been normal, two blokes having a practice, really.  I mean, it's obvious to say he works hard.  Yeah, some days we practiced for three hours.  Other days we practiced for an hour and a half.
 It's been, you know, just like most tennis players really.  Obviously the level is a lot higher than most, but it's been good to get some good practice in.  That's it really.
 I used it as some really good practice, and it's unfortunate I'm obviously in his part of the draw this week, but moving forward, whatever happens tomorrow, it's a good little block I put together and can definitely use it moving on to Dubai or Miami, whatever happens.
 So it's been useful for me.  You know, it puts me in a good spot.
 Q. What do you think it says about Roger and his kind of love for the game that he's been out more than a year, has had two knee surgeries, but he still wants to come back and compete at the age of 39?
 DANIEL EVANS:   Yeah, I mean, it's a testament to a bit like Andy, really, a testament to how much the guys respect the game, love the game, and definitely not doing it for money out here.  You know, it's for the love of the game.
 You know, it just shows how normal they are.  They just started out playing tennis for loving it and two very good tennis players, and it's great for the game that Roger is back here playing and, you know, that Andy has been back, as well.
 It just shows we've got some pretty good characters at the top of the game and will be tough when they're gone, I guess.
 Q. It's obvious that Roger enjoys practicing with you. Why do you think he likes practicing with you over all the many other players on the tour?
 DANIEL EVANS:   I don't know.  I mean, we had pretty good fun in practice.  I'd say I worked pretty hard.  I try not to put in too many bad sessions, so it was pretty good for him.
 You know, he obviously wants someone who is reliable they can trust to put in good sessions most days and get what they want.  Yeah, I'd say that may be it; it may not.  Might just be part luck.
 Q. As you say, you have spent two weeks with Roger.  I wonder who you think that favors more.  Would you rather he had not seen two weeks of your game, or do you feel a bit more comfortable having seen him play for two weeks in terms of constructing a plan?
 DANIEL EVANS:   I think you could answer that question.  I think it's tougher for me by a long stretch, yeah.
 But, no, it has been nice to see his game.  Obviously it does help I have been able to see it, but, you know, it's still going to be a difficult task.
 You know, he looked fit when I practiced with him.  If he's fully fit, it's definitely going to be tough.  As well, I should enjoy the occasion.  I'm sure it will be pretty busy tomorrow, as busy as it can be.  And it's always nice to play at night, especially against someone like Roger.  So we'll see what happens.
 Q. You have spoken before about how Roger has all the shots.  I'm just sort of curious if you could explain from a player's perspective the dilemma that sort of causes, trying to break through that problem of playing someone who has...  (lost audio).
 DANIEL EVANS:   Yeah, I mean, I would say it's more the variation.  You know, you're not sure what's going to come next, different spins, different pace.  Yeah, you know, you definitely sometimes second-guess yourself.  He obviously moves very well.  So that would be the biggest thing, I think, the variation.
 I feel like I deal with variation pretty well, and I do feel a bit flustered when practicing different things.  So, yeah, I mean, I'm sure for the more robotic players out there it's not ideal with a hell of a lot of variation he's got.
 Q. Just wondered if you could envisage yourself at the age of 39, being out for more than a year, having two knee operations and still wanting to play.
 DANIEL EVANS:   I'd still want to play, but I'm not sure I'd be able to come back (smiling).
 No, I mean, like I said before, it's testament to how much he obviously loves the game and believes he can still do good things in the game, I guess.  I'm not sure he's nipping back to play some 250s, in all due respect to those tournaments.
 You know, I think his goals are probably a little bit bigger than just winning on the tour.  I think what he said, you know, he was hoping to be back fully in Wimbledon, and I think he said that in his press yesterday, as well.  You know, those guys have specialists and whatnot that would have a plan in place.
 So it's good that he's back obviously for the tournament but more so for him and for tennis that we get to see him some more, and hopefully he can do good in the Grand Slams still.
 Q. How much better a player do you think you are than the last time you played Roger?
 DANIEL EVANS:   I think the last time I played him was at US Open, and I think I had a tough match the day before against Pouille.  I was pretty cooked that day.
 But, yeah, I'd say I'm definitely a lot better now.  I feel more comfortable.
 In that sense, obviously he's not played so much.  It will be a little different for him tomorrow, as well.  Probably my better chance to get some good tennis out there and trouble him.
 You know, I'll go out there and enjoy it and see what happens.  There's no drama if it goes wrong tomorrow.  If I win, it would be great, but, you know, if not, head to Dubai.
 Q. When we spoke to you in Australia, you were kind of mulling over what to do with your coaching situation.  Has there been any progress on that front?
 DANIEL EVANS:   No.  You know, it's very difficult at the minute to, you know, without sounding bad, if I go with someone, I'm stuck with them for quite a -- you know, this is a long trip.  You know, if you go to Doha, then Dubai, you can't go home from Dubai without quarantine.
 So I just opted to do it with a friend and my girlfriend Aleah, so, you know, it's worked -- in that sense I was lucky that Roger asked me to practice and I got some good practice and they sort of led the session, so it was good.
 Yeah, I'm old enough to know what I need to do on the match court.  It's just the days where I'm practicing, it can be difficult but seem to have it under control.  I'm actively looking.  I have conversations nearly every day and trying to find someone.  But, you know, I'm sure, as you guys know, there is not abundance of British coaches who are good, and if they are good, willing to travel, so it's a difficult one.
 Q. I just wondered, with Roger, away from the tennis and you hitting balls back and forth with him, is there anything common you've found in off-court interests and anything you talk about?  I think he used to play squash when he was younger, for example.  Anything like that?
 DANIEL EVANS:   No, not really.  I mean, we get on -- you know, I've got to say, all of his team are great.  They have been great, you know, to me and, yeah, I mean, we have had good bands here on the court.  It's not just been solidly drilling and then sit down, no one's chatting.
 You know, it's been sort of two weeks every day.  You know, you need to be able to chat a bit.  So, I mean, it's been good.
 You know, I'm not sure about common, but, you know, we get on.  Everybody gets on.  All of his team seem to get on with me okay and it just works, you know, that we hit and it was good.
 I enjoyed my week, two weeks there.  I had good fun, as well.  It wasn't, like I said, it wasn't so serious all the time but got some good work done.
 But in terms of, I mean, I'm not sure if we have much in common, but, yeah, he's pretty down-to-earth and he was good to me.  Yeah, I guess I gave him some good practice.
 Q. You're talking about how it was good to be in Dubai because you don't have the coach at the moment.  I don't know what the etiquette is, but would Roger or one of his team ever say to you, you know, If you moved your foot a different way here you might be able to do something different with the ball?  Would they ever give you advice tactically or technically in that situation?
 DANIEL EVANS:   No.  I mean, no.  To be honest, we played a lot of points most of the time, so there wasn't so much of that, but, you know, I'm sure if I asked, What do you think about that, they might give their opinion.
 But, you know, they got their own, you know, business to take care of, especially at the minute.  So no, not really, no.
 Q. I'd just like to know, if you noticed, since you played him in different slams, if he's as quick as he was or not?  Because I cannot believe someone who is 39 years old can run as fast as when he was 36 or 35.  Can you answer me to that?
 DANIEL EVANS:   I can't answer that.  I mean, if you watch the match tomorrow, you'll find out.
 Q. What do you expect?
 DANIEL EVANS:   Probably.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT