THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 6, 2019
Daniel Evans
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. SOUSA/D. Evans
4-6, 6-4, 7-5, 4-6, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Up in every set, tough one.  What do you think went wrong?  Why didn't you win that match?
DANIEL EVANS: Good question.
I obviously didn't serve very well.  That was it.  I didn't play any big points that great.  Fought as hard as I could fight.  That's all I can do on the day, is leave everything out there.
I haven't served that great the whole tournament, to be honest.  It's been a bit up and down.  Yeah, I mean, a little unlucky.  A few games were tight.  Didn't hold when I was up, as well.  That was it really.
I have to say Joao I thought played really well.  I mean, it was just a battle at the end, wasn't it?  Hard one to take.  Great atmosphere, as well.  Feel privileged to be able to play under the new Court 1 roof, to be honest.
Q. Sad to be leaving the grass after such success?
DANIEL EVANS: I'm not sad.  It's just disappointing, that match, really.  I thought I could have a good run here.  A chance to play Rafa, it would have been an amazing experience.
But, yeah, it's just disappointing to lose such a tight one.  As well for the people who come to watch, in my box.  Everyone was living it with me.  That's tough for me to take for them.
Q. How long do you think it's going to take you to get over this?  What will you do to try to get over it?
DANIEL EVANS: About 45 minutes I'll be over it.
Q. What do you mean by that?
DANIEL EVANS: It has to be done, doesn't it?  I can't go back and ruin everyone else's...  Be home in 45 minutes.  Just have to park it, then get on.  It's not the end of the world.  I lost.  Joao was too good.  I mean, I don't know, it just hurts to lose that match really.
But what can I do?  I mean, feeling sorry for myself is not going to do anything for anyone, is it?  Just got to come through those matches if you want to be top 50, top 30.  You got to come through them.  I was found wanting when I needed to find my serve in all five sets.
Q. You mentioned your box.  There was a little bit of a shouting match from them towards the end.  Can you clear up what was upsetting you?
DANIEL EVANS: Nothing to do with them.  It was someone else in the other end of the crowd.  It was nothing really.
Q. What had they done?  You said something about them being invited.
DANIEL EVANS: Someone was arguing.  It's nothing to report.
Q. Kind of tough losses like this, do you find them motivating?  Do they kind of inspire you?
DANIEL EVANS: Playing under the roof was an amazing experience.  I loved every minute of it out there, apart from losing.  Listen, last year I wasn't here playing the tournament, so I have to put everything into perspective.
Obviously I was banned, as well.  To think I would be playing under the roof...  I have to look back and just be happy how the year's gone.  There's plenty more tennis in the year.  Probably going onto my best surface now, as well.
Yeah, like I said, it's just disappointing to lose that.  You want to get through those matches.  Sort of things dreams are made of, isn't it?  To play late night under the roof, your home crowd, it would have been good just to pull through.  I couldn't.
Q. What's the schedule now?  Do you think you can do some inroads on hard courts?
DANIEL EVANS: Yeah, I mean, I'll probably have a week off, most likely.  I played a lot of tennis in the last, I don't know, however many weeks.  Seemed like it's all gone into one.  Yeah, take a bit of time, recharge my batteries, get going again.
It's not the end of the world what's happened.  It's one tennis match.  Made a hell of a lot of points over this period.  I think I'm close to top 50 again.
Yeah, I mean, I enjoyed every single match here.  Such a good place to play tennis.  Just have to be back next year.
Q. Top 50, a realistic goal?
DANIEL EVANS: I'm not massively into rankings.  I'm more into how I'm playing.  Right now have to serve better.  I'm so small, as well.  Just hinders me so much if I don't make the first serve.  It's just difficult.
Q. Aiming at your career-high ranking, that doesn't motivate you at all?
DANIEL EVANS: No.  Just winning big tennis matches, yeah.  Tonight was one, and I lost.  I put myself in the position.  That's always positive.
Q. The American hard courts might even suit you better.
DANIEL EVANS: Yeah, definitely.  I think so.  In your expert opinion, what do you think?
Q. I think so, too.
DANIEL EVANS: We're on the same page then.
Q. What do you think you can do to be better on the hard courts?
DANIEL EVANS: It's difficult.  Like, the ball just comes back a bit more on the hard court, doesn't it?  Serve and return, not so much.  The grass, they can just jump on your second serve.  You feel rushed on the grass.
That was one thing, I felt my second serve was getting pumped all through the tournament.
Q. Only a few men on the tour who played more tennis than you this year.  Was that a ploy at the start of the year?  Are you going to slow that down or keep the intensity going?
DANIEL EVANS: I don't think I've played many tournaments.  I think I've just played quite a lot of matches, which is always good.  It's a bit different if you're playing every week tournaments.
I think my schedule is pretty good.  Schedule, it is up to me.  I leave that to Dave.  Yeah, I mean, playing a lot of matches is always a good thing, isn't it?  Playing a lot of matches means you're winning.  That's it, isn't it?
Now is a good time to just take some time.  I'll look back when I go away for a bit, be happy with win, win, smoked by Stan, quarters, third round.  It's pretty good.  I can come through that match, that's real good.
Q. Where are you going on holiday?
DANIEL EVANS: I'm not sure yet.  I'll take a few days with my girlfriend.  I think she needs a holiday after the stress of all that.
Q. What are you playing next?
DANIEL EVANS: Atlanta.
Q. Further afield than sunny Birmingham?
DANIEL EVANS: I haven't been to Birmingham for a long time.
Q. Why not?
DANIEL EVANS: Because I don't live there.
Q. You never like going back?
DANIEL EVANS: Yeah, but, I mean, everything is in Cheltenham for me now.  I'll definitely go abroad probably for a few days, yeah.
Q. We may not see you before the US Open.  The ATP Cup, as well, something you're thinking?  The Davis Cup?
DANIEL EVANS: Davis Cup, definitely thinking about that.  It's a great opportunity for everyone, I think.  Yeah, Davis Cup has always been pretty close to me really.  It's where I started at.  I think it's a great competition.  I'm really looking forward to that.  I think we have a good chance.  Pretty decent group, as well.  Hopefully we can get through.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT