THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 4, 2019
Daniel Evans
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. EVANS/N. Basilashvili   
6-3, 6-2, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  We don't normally see you so emotional after a win.  What was it in particular about today?  
DANIEL EVANS: Obviously just want to do well at this tournament.  It was a goal to be in the main draw here.  I did that.  Obviously I missed out the last few years.  To be into the third round is great for me.  That was all really, you know.   
 Q.  Andy Murray cries all the time, but you don't seem like a cryer.  When was the last time you cried?  
DANIEL EVANS: I wouldn't say Andy cries all the time.   
No, I don't know.  Listen, obviously a lot of my friends were here, people who have helped me so much.  I don't know, just got the better of me today.  There's plenty more tennis to be played in this tournament, so I won't be resting on that win.   
 Q.  Was it about the process coming back from your low point?  
DANIEL EVANS: Not really.  I mean, yes and no.  It was a great win to beat Nikoloz.  It was a tough match.  Almost made it at the end where I needed to finish the match.  More release than anything, if I'm honest with you.   
 Q.  You seemed to get quite frustrated at times, but harnessed it pretty well.  Are you a person that plays better when you have something to be angry about?  
DANIEL EVANS: No, I mean, I try to keep it in check as much as possible.  I didn't do a great job of his service game at 5-3, I think it was.  I had match points.  Missed an easy return.  Then I got a bit messy out there.   
Yeah, I could have done a bit better keeping it in check.  I got over the line at the end.   
 Q.  There was a bit of chirp from him in the penultimate game when he seemed to be taking exception to not a lot really.  Did you know what that was all about?  
DANIEL EVANS: No, not really.  He's a good guy.  I wouldn't have said there was anything in it.   
 Q.  Would it be fair to say that it seems to matter more to you now than it did, say, four or five years ago, that this is a stage of your career where this is what it's about?  
DANIEL EVANS: Yeah, it's more that I believe I can do better now than before.  I was just playing tennis.  I probably didn't know the magnitude of winning matches in Grand Slams.  It's a big deal to be winning matches in the best tournaments in the world, especially here at Wimbledon, at your home slam, with so much tradition at the tournament.   
Yeah, I want to go as far as I can here.  For me it's the best Grand Slam, so I can't wait to play again.   
 Q.  Were you reported for using bad language on court today?  
DANIEL EVANS: Yes, probably.   
 Q.  Does that mean you face a fine?  
DANIEL EVANS: I'm not sure.  Probably.   
 Q.  The way you're going now, do you actually feel like the best is still to come from you in your career?  
DANIEL EVANS: I mean, I hope so.  I'm working as hard as I can to be better.  Yeah, I mean, it's a question to answer really.  You never know what's around the corner.   
Hopefully the best is coming on Saturday, I hope.  Doing everything I can to put my best tennis on the court on Saturday.   
 Q.  What do you think about playing Sousa on Saturday?  Did you expect that?  
DANIEL EVANS: Did Sousa win?   
 Q.  In straight sets, yeah.  
DANIEL EVANS: The third round of any Grand Slam is tough.  He's not got such a big game like Cilic has.  I think it matches up a little better for me.   
Again, it's a tough match.  I'm going to have to be right out there with my game.   
 Q.  You've not gone beyond the third round here, fourth round at a slam, I think.  
DANIEL EVANS: You're right.   
 Q.  Do you think your game is built in a way that the momentum can make this a liftoff really for you?  
DANIEL EVANS: I mean, I hope so.  Again, I just have to concentrate on Saturday, try to get a win on Saturday, then we can keep going.  Literally that's what it's like:  match at a time, set at a time.  It's boring, I know.  I'd love to say it is coming, but I just have to concentrate on Saturday.   
 Q.  Especially on this surface, you have such a good record.  Do you feel most players, you can sort of reel them in, try to get them playing your game like you did today?  
DANIEL EVANS: That's my game plan obviously.  Those guys know that.  They're going to try to put their game on me.  That's the battle out there, isn't it?   
Hopefully I can try and do that again on Saturday, serve a bit better hopefully.  I think I can win.   
 Q.  Back on the emotions again.  Have you ever cried, do you remember, on a tennis court after a match?  
DANIEL EVANS: I think after I beat Tomic, I did.  It just happens, doesn't it?  It was so difficult out there.  That's just the emotion which come out.  I mean, not sure what else I can say.   
 Q.  I'm assuming you've seen your team.  
DANIEL EVANS: No.   
 Q.  Haven't seen them yet?  
DANIEL EVANS: I saw my coach, fitness trainer, physio.   
 Q.  How was the interaction, whether they're emotional?  
DANIEL EVANS: No, I mean, nothing has been said about the match.  Just, Well done.  There's not much to say really.  There's still a job to be done.  Just go about it.  Have doubles later.  I'm focusing on that at the minute.   
 Q.  You seemed to be bouncing off the crowd, talking to people.  You want to get people buying into you?  
DANIEL EVANS: It's great when the crowd get involved, they interact obviously in a good way.  They were great out there.  I mean, that's the best crowd I've played in front of at Wimbledon, obviously apart from Centre Court, on an outside court.  They were really loud.   
I felt like everyone enjoyed the match, especially Basilashvili played some good tennis, as well.  I thought it was a good match all around.  Hopefully they're happy for the money they paid.   
 Q.  Apart from your team, who else did you have supporting you out there?  
DANIEL EVANS: My girlfriend was here, a few of my friends, yeah, close friends.  It's good for them to come, as well.   
 Q.  Will they stay for Saturday?  
DANIEL EVANS: We're all staying in a house, so yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT