NATURE VALLEY INTERNATIONAL
June 27, 2019
Daniel Evans
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. EDMUND/D. Evans   
1-6, 6-3, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How did you feel when you had a blistering start and Kyle sort of came back into it?  
DANIEL EVANS: Yeah, I played good in the first set, served pretty well, and then I found it difficult to get into his service games.  All credit to him.  He played pretty good and was better today.   
 Q.  It's been a great run.  Looking back at Surbiton, Nottingham, how do you feel your whole grass season has been to this point?  
DANIEL EVANS: No, it's been great.  I got a lot of matches.  Hopefully now I go up to Wimbledon with a good chance of getting some more matches.   
You know, I have done some good preparation.  Now the big one is here, so hopefully I can win some matches.   
 Q.  Kyle Edmund is quite often a reserved character.  Today it felt like he was matching your energy at times.  Did you find that on the court?  
DANIEL EVANS: No, not really.  I thought it was a good competitive match, and I have seen him like that before.  I think he's way better when he plays like that.  You know, that obviously showed again today.  He had good energy, and he was playing good.   
 Q.  Are you enjoying it more than you have for a long, long time at the moment?  
DANIEL EVANS: Not really.  I'm just the same.  Yeah, it's good fun out there.  Like I said, it was a good match, good level.   
He was just a little bit better, really.  Good match to be a part of.  Good competitive match, really.  I just wasn't good enough.   
 Q.  Towards the end you said something to the fan, like, I'm trying so hard?  
DANIEL EVANS: Yeah.   
 Q.  Did it feel like you had an extra energy because it was two British players playing in Britain?  
DANIEL EVANS: No, not really.  I mean, you know, sometimes you can be a little nervous playing someone you know.  No, I mean, it was just strictly business really with Kyle, and he was -- I thought he was the same, really.   
It was just a good match.  Yeah, he was good.  Yeah, obviously was better than me.   
 Q.  From coming back and fighting your way up through the rankings for this year, it does feel something's sort of changed in you, that you shifted up a gear.  Do you feel you're anywhere near the form you showed when you hit the top 50?  
DANIEL EVANS: Yeah, I'm pretty close obviously to that ranking at the minute.  I feel I'm playing pretty good.  It's just those matches like today, you sneak them and then you go a bit quicker, but I didn't.  Then hopefully get another chance next week, lucky for me, another good chance, as well, big points.   
 Q.  What do you feel that David has brought to your game?  
DANIEL EVANS: I mean, he's definitely got me working hard and, you know, obviously I'm coming in quite a bit.  Yeah, not many errors.  That's my game.  Just trying to put that out on the court.   
 Q.  How are you feeling going into Wimbledon?  
DANIEL EVANS: Yeah, great.  You know, I'm looking forward to playing Wimbledon, really.  That's my only sort of feeling is to get out there and get going.   
Take a day off tomorrow and practice Saturday and Sunday, and then hopefully get going Monday or Tuesday.   
 Q.  Are you kind of a superstitious guy that doesn't look at the draw, or do you like to see...  
DANIEL EVANS: No, I look to see who I'm playing.   
 Q.  But looking to see a couple of rounds ahead?  
DANIEL EVANS: I look at the top and bottom of the draw and hope my name is not next to any of them.  Yeah.   
 Q.  How much do you enjoy your relationship with the crowds?  Like today, yet again, you come across as a great entertainer, you have a rapport with the crowd.  Is that something that you enjoy?  
DANIEL EVANS: No, I mean, it's just good that they have had a nearly full crowd every day, and, you know, it's good for British tennis if they're filling those stadiums.   
Hopefully tomorrow and the final I'm sure they'll have good crowds again.  If there is a Brit involved or Brits involved, it's good for everyone, I think.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT