ROLAND GARROS
May 28, 2019
Daniel Evans
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
FERNANDO VERDASCO/D. Evans   
6-3, 6-7, 6-3, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  First, how are you?  How is the injury?  What happened?  
DANIEL EVANS: I don't know.  It's just a bit tight, my calf.  I'm pretty good.  Obviously did a lot of running.  So yeah, it was a tough match.   
 Q.  Did you think after the second set that it was, you know, very much game on?  
DANIEL EVANS: Yeah, I mean, I thought it was a pretty even match.  Obviously just to the end I struggled to hold serve.  Yeah, I mean, I had some chance in the third, as well, I think.   
It was difficult.  Obviously I was on the run quite a bit in defense quite a lot.  So trying to turn that round was what I was trying to do, but I couldn't do it enough, unfortunately.   
 Q.  Did it get back caught up with you a bit, the fourth set, having to do that work?  
DANIEL EVANS: Yeah, it was difficult, you know, to keep -- obviously I ended up running more than I would have liked.  And to one of his class when you're leaving the ball in the middle of the court, too often he will put you away.  And it obviously showed in the fourth that he was well on top.   
 Q.  You had a lot of break points in the match.  Did you feel he played particularly well on those?  
DANIEL EVANS: Obviously a few points he played good.  But, you know, at the start of the match I was pretty -- I was finding my way.  I wasn't quite sure how I was going to win the points, and I thought I did a pretty good job of working that out and getting back into the match.   
You know, the first set was a good opportunity, I thought.  And I think I had Love-40 and 15-40 right at the start.  And, you know, getting up in the match against a guy as good as him is, you know, what I needed to do.   
But I was behind obviously quite a lot of the match, so it was difficult.   
 Q.  As you say, he's a classy player.  So I know obviously not the result you wanted, but are you proud of your efforts out there?  
DANIEL EVANS: I'm happy with how I played.  Obviously, you know, I'm getting closer.  I feel like I'm pretty close to the good guys again, and I don't think -- there's nothing really negative about today.   
You know, I genuinely wanted to play a really good player or someone I have a decent chance to go and win some matches in the tournament.  And I played a decent player and tested myself, and that's what I come here to do.   
You know, obviously I wanted to win some matches, but, you know, I found my level today, and I'm pretty close to someone who's a consistent player day in and day out, week in, week out.   
 Q.  Do you think you will go straight to the grass and play in Surbiton next week and how are you feeling overall about your chances in the grass this summer?  
DANIEL EVANS: I'm in the doubles draw as well.   
 Q.  Oh, sorry.  
DANIEL EVANS: You know, I'm a big fan of doubles.  I like to -- (Laughter.)   
What?  I'm being serious.   
So yeah, I'm in the doubles draw still.   
But, yeah, I will go to Surbiton if I get a chance, yeah.   
 Q.  Did you enjoy the game yesterday?  
DANIEL EVANS: Yeah.  We were good.  Obviously we won.  So yeah, it was good.  Obviously I was in Paris, but that's the way it is, isn't it?   
 Q.  Do you plan to play the whole grass court thing start to finish?  
DANIEL EVANS: Yeah, I mean, unless obviously --   
 Q.  If you're not in the doubles.  
DANIEL EVANS: Yeah.  I mean, take it week by week, I guess.  You know, if I did some in at Queen's and I was there quite a while, then maybe, you know, I would see how it is for Eastbourne or -- yeah, I mean, I want to win some matches in the big tournaments, so my plan is to play all the way through.  But, you know, if I play a lot of matches one week and I don't feel great, I won't play the next week.   
My goal is to play pretty far in Wimbledon is my goal.  It's not to just go there and turn up and win a match.  It's to win a few.  Three or four matches would be great.   
 Q.  Jamie has broken up with his partner.  Do you put your hat in the ring for that role?  
DANIEL EVANS: I play singles mainly, and I think Jamie likes a doubles specialist, so no.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT