AUSTRALIAN OPEN
February 9, 2021
Daniel Evans
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  C. NORRIE/D. Evans
 6-4, 4-6, 6-4, 7-5
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. You had a tight four-setter.  Can you talk us through the match?
 DANIEL EVANS:   Yeah, I mean, I think Cam played all the tennis, really.  Yeah, I fought hard, and that was about it, really.  It was a difficult turnaround, and that was that, yeah.
 Q. I heard you talking about Gavin McCann to your box.  Do you I take it that you were feeling it a bit in the legs today?
 DANIEL EVANS:   Yeah, you got the joke.  Yeah, I mean, I just found it tough to come back.  I was a bit flat, and yeah, I just felt, after I went on Sunday, I just felt pretty flat ever since really.  I didn't practice great yesterday.
 Yeah, it was difficult.  Maybe mentally, as well, it was difficult to just -- I tried as hard as I could to let that go.  But it was difficult, you know.  I would say probably one of the better draws out there today, so yeah.
 Q. Would you say it was more mental or physical flatness or a bit of both today?
 DANIEL EVANS:   I think when you're flat mentally, it pays off on you physically.  I wasn't very energetic, started very slowly.  You know, I prepared as well as I could, but I could feel myself talking a lot, and it was tough to get out of.  I was definitely probably tired mentally, and then -- I did a good job to hang in the match.
 But yeah, this is sort of exactly the reason I told you guys I wouldn't play the week before the Grand Slams was to try and conserve my body, and it's happened again.  Obviously the circumstances have dictated that, but he lost first round last week, got shed-loads of practice in this week and then probably could dictate his own days, and I didn't get that chance.  Granted, I won last week, but it doesn't feel that good now.
 So yeah, it's a bit bittersweet really.  Like I want to do well in the Grand Slams, and due respect to that tournament, no one is going to remember I won that in three weeks' time.  Yeah, it's difficult to swallow, but you know, it is what it is now.  I've had worse, so just move on.
 Q. Do you feel this has been an unusual buildup to this event and the circumstances you were faced with, having a sort of late finish last -- well, just 48 hours ago, do you think it would have helped if you'd had a backup team here with you?  Obviously I think you're just here with your girlfriend if I'm right and a mate of yours has come over.  Would it have helped if you'd kind of had a bit more support around?
 DANIEL EVANS:   I mean, again, like I can't dictate that.  I was never going to ask a guy to come be physio and sit in the room for 14 days along with then just a coach coming out with me.  I tried my best to have a coach here, but that didn't work.
 No, I mean, the ATP guys do a great job and the Australian Open physios did a great job.  They worked on me, looked after me.  The medical services on the tour are great.
 Yeah, I mean, I don't think so.  I just didn't -- it was an awkward match for me.  Playing Cam, he hits the ball not the nicest to play against.  It's awkward.  If you look at it, it's probably the match I don't want to play is him.  There's added pressure to win that match, and it just wasn't an easy match.  To be honest, I thought he played pretty well.
 Yeah, well done to him, but I'd say I did well to make it that tight.
 Q. Can you tell us what you'll be doing in the next few weeks, where you'll be playing?
 DANIEL EVANS:   I mean, I've entered in Singapore.  I'll see how it goes.  I need to have a look at what -- there's so many variables now I need to check.  I need to speak to probably the doctor at the LTA.  I'm in doubles here but I'm not sure how my partner is or how I am.  Maybe take a few days if I didn't play doubles or maybe a week, then get -- four or five days, get back practicing indoors here.
 But I don't know.  It's tough.  There's also like do I want to go to Singapore and then -- the points are great but the money is awful, and then you've got to prioritize tournaments now.  I think Dubai, I've got to look at making sure I'm ready for that; Rotterdam, that's a 500.  All sorts come into it now, and if I did play Singapore, then I'm going straight from Singapore to Rotterdam, not going home.  But I then I might not be able to go home anyway because I don't know the circumstances how I get out of the country, if I can get out of the country.
 So it's an awful answer for you basically.  I don't know.
 Q. You said maybe speak to a doctor at the LTA.  Have you got any particular physical issues at the moment?
 DANIEL EVANS:   No, but the doctor would have all the information at hand, whereas I wouldn't have -- I could find the information, but obviously as an elite athlete I have certain exemptions, so to go back into the country I'd probably need a test but then isolate with just one extra test and then I can use the bubble at the NTC, but I don't know if that still stands, et cetera, so we'll see.
 Q. On the coaching front, when do you anticipate having someone in charge?  Have you spoken to some short lists?  Have you got some people in mind potentially?
 DANIEL EVANS:   I mean, to be honest, I really liked Ben Haran who I worked with over preseason.  He did a great job.  Yeah, there's a few things which need shoring up.  There's no doubt there.  Physical trainer, as well, would -- I need to sort that.
 Yeah, there's a few things, but nothing -- as you guys know, it's difficult at the minute to really have set plans because you can get to the tournament, you're only allowed two guests, so it's so difficult.  And obviously travel with Aleah every week, so that leaves a coach, does it leave a physio.  It's very -- it's a difficult time right now.  So I do need to sort a few things out.
 Q. Just on the final side of things, when you said, for example, Singapore, the money is not great, is that becoming quite a factor now for players given the expenses of traveling on tour, that the financial rewards are making you have to think twice about your schedule?
 DANIEL EVANS:   Well, yeah.  I mean, that's just -- that's just like anything.
 Q. I wonder if it's got worse this year because the prize money has come down for obvious reasons.
 DANIEL EVANS:   Of course, but you know obviously Doha would pay pretty good; Rotterdam obviously is a 500, it's better pay; Dubai.  That's just -- that would just be silly if I didn't prioritize, really.  It's no disrespect to Singapore or Doha or whatnot, but 500 is great points and better money.  There's not a lot of money around at the minute, so it would be stupid not to prioritize.  That's why last week -- I don't play the sport for the money, but this is where the money is, and it's the first round.
 Q. Just a cheeky question, but on Gavin McCann, do you know the guy?  Did you watch him playing football?
 DANIEL EVANS:   I was only joking.  It's just a joke with friends, you know.  No, he's a good -- well, he played for Villa, but it's just a joke, really.
 I think at the end of his career, like everybody does, they stop because they lose their legs, most people.  It was just a joke.  Nothing against him.  Did well for Villa.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT