FEVER-TREE CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2018
Daniel Evans
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. MANNARINO/D. Evans   
6-4, 0-6, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  5-3 in that final set, how difficult was it to try to get over the line against him?  It would have been a wonderful win.  
DANIEL EVANS: Yeah, it's like any match.  Just difficult to -- you know, I haven't been in that situation for a while, so, yeah, I struggled to do it, clearly.   
Yeah, it was just difficult, yeah.  Couldn't get over the line today.  I have to go again the next time I play.   
 Q.  Is it sort of a nervous thing that comes in, serving for the match?  
DANIEL EVANS: No, I just haven't been in that situation a lot and played a shocking game, and that was, you know, that was that.  Completely changed the way I had been playing and lost the game and then spiraled from there.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible.)  
DANIEL EVANS: I played pretty good, yeah.  It was a good-level match.  I thought just emotions got the better of me in the end of the match.   
 Q.  (Question about coming so close.)  
DANIEL EVANS: Yeah, I'm playing good tennis.  I feel like I should be in these tournaments again.  I didn't feel any different to when I was playing before.  Just, you know, to be a bit calmer in the end of the match to serve it out and be a bit more clear in what I was doing, and, you know, I would have got over the line and I didn't.  He was better in the end.   
 Q.  The meeting at Wimbledon was today.  Have you heard anything yet?  
DANIEL EVANS: No.   
 Q.  I mean, are you happy to play prequalifying if it comes on Thursday, I think?  
DANIEL EVANS: Well, yeah.  If I want to play a tournament, I have to go for prequallies, I'd say.   
 Q.  Do you feel like you have proven your worth in British tennis in the last few months?  
DANIEL EVANS: Not really, no.  I mean, I'm not really sure what worth you mean.  I just play the matches and see how I do.   
You know, there is some great players now in Britain.  We're doing pretty well.  You know, hopefully I can just get up the rankings.  It's not about British tennis, like me proving to anybody in British tennis.  It's about me proving to myself and the other players that I'm worthy of playing these tournaments.   
 Q.  (Question about whether a wildcard has been distracting.)  
DANIEL EVANS: No, not at all.  To be honest, I haven't read anything or done any, you know, spoke to anyone about it.   
Like I said, if I'm playing prequallies, it's still an opportunity to get into the tournament.  You know, if someone had said I'd be playing prequallies a year ago, I'd have taken it.  It's fine by me if I'm playing in that tournament.   
 Q.  Potentially a hard question to answer, but do you feel like you deserve a wildcard?  
DANIEL EVANS: It's potentially a hard question to answer (smiling).   
 Q.  Have you had any discussions with the LTA about whether they are supporting your case for a wildcard with Wimbledon?  
DANIEL EVANS: No.  I just, like I just -- I'm looking to play prequalifying and that's it.  My ranking gets me in prequalifying.  There has been no discussions with anybody about anything, and that's up to other people, not myself.   
 Q.  Andy Murray, how good is it to see him back on the tour?  
DANIEL EVANS: It's great.  Obviously I heard he lost when I was on court, but it's just great to see him back on court and see him competing.   
 Q.  You said you haven't heard from the other British players a lot during the last month.  You probably have met them here.  So what was their reaction to you?  
DANIEL EVANS: It was just normal stuff.  Yeah, just like I hadn't really been anywhere, so it was good to be back.  Everyone's been great in the tournament, not just the British players but all the staff and all the other players have been great.   
 Q.  No strange reactions coming back?  
DANIEL EVANS: No.   
 Q.  Considering this was the big tournament to prove to Wimbledon that you deserve the wildcard, are you disappointed more with the result?  Did you feel any pressure about that?  
DANIEL EVANS: No, just disappointed with just losing, really.  I didn't think about it as to prove to Wimbledon that I deserved a wildcard.  It's just I lost, really.  It hurts I lost.  It's nothing to do with the wildcard or anything.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT