APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 14, 2017
Daniel Evans
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








G. MULLER/D. Evans
7-6, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Where did you lose it?
DANIEL EVANS: I don't think I lost it.  I think he won it, to be honest.  Yeah, he served too good.  Obviously the first-set tiebreak was a big one.  It would have sort of been tough for him to regain focus and go again if I'd won the first set, but I didn't.  He was good front runner.
Q. He had particularly good serving in the second set.
DANIEL EVANS: Yeah, I couldn't get anywhere near his serve.  Yeah, it was one of those things.
It's just sport, isn't it?  I said yesterday he's got a great serve.  He showed it today.
Q. Were you surprised it's taken him this long to break through and get his first title?
DANIEL EVANS: There's so many good players.  Yeah, so many good players.  It's always tough, you know.  You know, I hope it takes me six years if I get one.  I'd sign for it taking that many times if I got one.
He got it in the end, and yeah, good for him.  It was his day today.
Q. Can you reflect on the disappointment?
DANIEL EVANS: Yeah, I sort of look back with encouragement and how the way it went, but I'm a bit disappointed at the minute.
It was tough today.  It's so stop and start.  Gotta keep focused, and I lost a bit of that.
Q. What do you think you need to do to win these sort of matches?
DANIEL EVANS: Yeah, obviously gotta work a bit.  I just couldn't pick his serve, to be honest.  His serve was pretty much unplayable the whole second and first set.  It's one of those things.
Q. And how do you feel placed for the Australian Open?
DANIEL EVANS: Yeah, it's good.  I play on Monday, so sort of straight into it.  You know, could be way worse going into that tournament.
I'm pretty happy with how I'm playing.  Looking forward to playing Monday.
Q. Do you feel physically you'll be okay?
DANIEL EVANS: Yeah, I'm a bit tired, but, you know, it's Grand Slams, they're great events, what I really look forward to playing all year.  Yeah, I can't wait.
Q. You've partnered with Nick Kyrgios.  Have you spoken with him much?
DANIEL EVANS: We were in Perth together.  We're actually playing in Melbourne together.  We'll see how that goes.
Q. Do you get a full appreciation of all the stuff he talks about in terms of scrutiny and pressure and whatnot?
DANIEL EVANS: No, I'm not Australian.  No one cares if I win or lose.
Q. But just watching, I suppose, how much attention he captures?
DANIEL EVANS: Yeah, but he's 30 in the world, isn't he?  He's a great player, so it's -- yeah, people want to get involved in his sort of life when you're that good.  It's part and parcel of his sort of stature, I'd say.
Q. Do you compare notes to how it was for you with the British press a few years ago?
DANIEL EVANS: No.  I think all mine was pretty much my own fault.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT