WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2016
Daniel Evans
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. EVANS/J. Struff
  6‑3, 6‑7, 7‑6, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. Must be well pleased with that result?
DANIEL EVANS: Yeah, it was a good one, tough one. Really enjoyed it, every part of the match, even the second set. It was good to get the win in the end, get another Brit through. 

Q. In the first set, was there something at the back of the court you needed clearing up?
DANIEL EVANS: The ball boy unfortunately got sick. He was sick twice on the bottom of the court. Then it was left there for a bit. It just smelled. It was starting to smell a bit, so it needed cleaning.

Q. Was it during your actual game?
DANIEL EVANS: Yeah, he was sick.

Q. Was that putting you off at all?
DANIEL EVANS: No. It's just good that he got off the court so he could get some attention, yeah.

Q. In the fourth set, you had that slip. What did you injure? How bad was it? 
DANIEL EVANS: My groin. It is a bit sore now, but it will be fine. I think I come back round pretty well from it. And, yeah, it's fine. 

Q. Marcus Willis was getting a lot of noise on the other court. You obviously heard that noise. What did you make of that?
DANIEL EVANS: It was good when he finished. That's probably the loudest I ever heard an outside court. I sort of knew every point he was winning, it was loud. It was a good win for him. 

Q. You know him well. Can you tell us about his character, his journey to where he's got to here. 
DANIEL EVANS: Yeah, he's a good guy, friendly, harmless. Not a bad bone really. He's a bit of a clown. What you see is what you get with him. 
He's not putting anything on on court when he's talking. That's him. That is him. He's just a bit of a joker, just enjoys himself. You know, he's a really nice guy, one of my good friends. 

Q. How satisfying is it that you both got through today?
DANIEL EVANS: Yeah, I mean, I'm guessing he's pretty happy. Only come to the courts today focusing on me. That's what I'll do the next round. 

Q. You finally have won at Wimbledon. What is the overriding feeling?
DANIEL EVANS: I'm just, yeah, pleased with my day really and my performance. It's a great tournament. All English guys dream of playing here and winning matches here. It's good that it happened today. Hopefully I can go again on Wednesday.

Q. Dolgopolov next. What do you know about him? Have you played him before?
DANIEL EVANS: Never played him. It's obviously going to be a tough match. Just next 24 hours get my body ready, get ready to go again on Wednesday. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT