WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2016
Daniel Evans
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. FEDERER/D. Evans
  6‑4, 6‑2, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
   
 Q. Did you enjoy that in any way? A bit of a dumb question, but...   
DAN EVANS: It was good. A bit surreal actually seeing him down the other end. Yeah, it was tough to just get used to. I mean, so many people.   
It was very different to what I am used to. I didn't expect it to be so sort of on top of me. It was pretty, like, close. It was really close.   
It was just an amazing experience just to play him. I don't think I played too bad, I just didn't serve very well. I enjoyed it. Answer is yes.   
   
 Q. How tight were you before you went out there?  
DAN EVANS: No, I was fine. The women's match before didn't help much. No, I enjoyed the whole day, to be honest. Just to prepare in that match, seeing him prepare for that match as well, particularly interesting.   
Yeah, everyone knows how good he is. When I sat here the other day and said I could get a drum in, I did.  
   
 Q. I guess you were in a different locker room so you couldn't see him before.   
DAN EVANS: No, but there's a warmup area downstairs with physio beds. Could see his warmup. Yeah, it was different than what I'm used to, that is for sure. I can't say I didn't want to be out there at any point. It was tough. But I enjoyed it.   
Yeah, the main thing was to try and remember it. I was getting, you know, sort of dealt a pretty bad hand by him. Yeah, it was one of those things.  
   
 Q. How much confidence do you take from those spells in the first set when you were going toe‑to‑toe with him, out‑rallying him?  
DAN EVANS: I mean, once or twice (smiling).   
No, it was just really difficult. I mean, he hits the ball so deep and early. Before I knew it, the ball was on me. Well, it was pretty simple. It was such a tough match.   
Yeah, but it's a learning curve, isn't it? See how far I am away from that sort of level.  
   
 Q. Did he say much to you at the net?  
DAN EVANS: He just said, Well done, good run, something to do with good luck in the future. Yeah, it was complimentary at the end. It was a nice touch from him, yeah.  
   
 Q. Are you feeling pretty happy about the tournament overall?  
DAN EVANS: Yeah, I am. You know, yesterday was a particular highlight obviously. To come and get a win at Wimbledon was good. That was sort of the first goal, to get through the first round. Then obviously it's done pretty good for my ranking. Come back next year with pretty good intentions. I don't see why I can't go a bit further.  
   
 Q. This is just the beginning of another new chapter rather than a end in itself.   
DAN EVANS: It's not like, Oh, now you go and that's it. It's like I have a bit of time off. I'll probably go to Serbia with the team. Then, yeah, I've got Washington, the 500 there. It's going to be good. I'm really excited. Looking forward to getting away and getting going again.  
   
 Q. You didn't play any clay this year. Going out to Serbia, what are your thoughts?  
DAN EVANS: I'm trying to persuade Leon that James was better than me on the clay (smiling).   
I don't know. It's tough, isn't it? I want to represent my country. Whatever surface it's on, I'll give my best. If I'm asked to do it, I'll do it, for sure.   
I love playing Davis Cup. They're the sort of things and moments I want to be involved in more, like today.   
I'll for sure go. I'm looking forward to seeing everyone, really. It's a bit different here. You don't see much of anyone. It should be good fun.   
   
 Q. Considering the rest of Wimbledon were coming on and off court several times today, how much of a relief was it for you to go out and play a game and not be interrupted?  
DAN EVANS: Yeah, to be honest, I didn't really think about that. I just sort of knew I was going to play today. It was sort of just a certainty that I'd be playing tennis, which is always nice.   
Yeah, the weather's been pretty bad. Obviously there's a lot of matches to be finished still. It's a difficult position for people to be in. Obviously the scheduling is going to be tough.  
   
 Q. Had you not been on Centre Court, you would have been in that situation. Less frustrating in some respects.   
DAN EVANS: Yeah, it wouldn't have been much fun being 6‑4, 6‑2, 4‑1 down hanging overnight.   
   
 Q. Do you think you can improve on clay, or does it nullify your strengths too much?  
DAN EVANS: I just didn't play on it because it was better for my schedule really. That was it. I'm not great on it, but I think I can improve on it, for sure, if I mentally put the effort in.   
It's tougher physically, as well. But have to change my game style a bit. That's what Leon is there for at Davis Cup and the other coaches.   
   
 Q. You said beforehand you didn't get a chance to talk to Marcus because he was on his phone all the time. Will you give him a ring and compare notes?  
DAN EVANS: No. He'll be playing another club match, wouldn't he?   
   
 Q. For Marcus, for him, that could be as good as it gets. For you, it's important that that isn't as good as it gets, there's more to come?  
DAN EVANS: That might never happen again. I might never get a chance to play‑‑ I might not be drawn anywhere near him again in a draw.   
Yeah, I will never forget playing him on Centre Court. I'll treasure every memory I made on that court. I'll go home tonight and I probably will think about it. I'd like to think the people who watched it, as well, enjoyed it, who come today to watch me.   
It was just, you know, one of those things that didn't go my way. It was a bit one‑sided. But, yeah, I can't really help that today. Yeah, it won't be the last time I get on a good court I don't think, hopefully. Like I said before, I just want to be in these tournaments, you know, every time one of these tournaments come around. I want to be in the main draw. There is a chance I'll be on, what, Court 16, 17.   
But you got to get through to come and get on these courts. That's the reward really, to get on these courts, winning the first round, second round, then getting a chance to play Federer or whoever it may be.   
   
 Q. Leon said he thought you could push on towards maybe the top 30. Do you feel that type of level is attainable?  
DAN EVANS: I haven't really thought about it. I don't really know what that level's like. I didn't know what the top 100 was like, what level that is, what is top‑30 level. You sort of have to get there to know if you belong there.   
I sort of will find out, I guess. I mean, I can't sit here and say I'm better than some of the guys in the top 30 because I'm not top 30. We'll see if it happens or if it doesn't happen.  
   
 Q. You will be in a position to enter pretty much any ATP events.   
DAN EVANS: Yeah, for sure. I'm in a pretty good position. That's what the last three, four months was the goal, to come out of the summer being a main‑draw player in these events. It's good for my game to get practice in with these guys day in, day out. Especially playing the matches, that's how you improve. That's really, like, my goal now is to kick on again.  
   
 Q. Do you know what your ranking will be?  
DAN EVANS: No, I don't know. I haven't looked. No one's told me.   
   
 Q. When you compare where you were this time last year...   
DAN EVANS: Yeah, it's a great feeling. It is a great feeling. I'm pretty proud of what I've done. I want everybody else, like, to know, Willis, people like that, what he's done this week, it's such a good thing for tennis in Britain. Hopefully there are juniors out there thinking, That could be me.   
Obviously everyone dreams about playing Federer on Centre Court. Two Brits got a chance this year. Should be inspiration for a lot of people. It's inspiration for me that I got a chance to play him. I want that again, to play other good players on those courts.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT