AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 10, 2014
Daniel Evans
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. ANDERSON/D. Evans
  6‑2, 6‑3
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 
Q.   One of those matches where you get fleeting opportunities and it's just about making them if you get them, isn't it?
  DANIEL EVANS:   Yeah.   He did well to stop me with as many opportunities as possible.   What I did is I just didn't take them. 
  There wasn't really opportunities, anyway.   It was like 30‑All points to get opportunities, one break point, but I didn't think there was a chance there.
Q.   Must have been difficult with him banging down serves like that?
  DANIEL EVANS:   From a tree, yeah.   Annoying match.   I didn't really get a chance to play tennis, really.   It couldn't have been a good one to watch, to be honest. 
Q.   Is that the first time you've played someone like a Karlovic, an Isner?   The first basketball player you've played?
  DANIEL EVANS:   Yeah.   Definitely, yeah. 
Q.   Because of the nature of the match, it probably doesn't hurt your confidence so much because you didn't think you really played, as you said?
  DANIEL EVANS:   No, it wasn't a real ‑‑neither here or there what happened today.   Just second tournament on grass. 
  Next week is a pretty big week.   Smaller draw, bigger ‑‑more points.   That's the week you're going to pick up your points.   To get decent points here you have to go for at least rounds. 
  Yeah, so definitely it's good two weeks to develop on the grass, anyway.   Not so good for the results.
Q.   Everything okay with the knee?
  DANIEL EVANS:   Yeah, it's fine.
Q.   Feeling okay?
  DANIEL EVANS:   Yeah, yeah.   I'm fine. 
Q.   Andy was hitting with Aljaz Bedene this morning.   Obviously his British citizenship issue is going on.   What are your views on that?   He's not ranked much above you. 
  DANIEL EVANS:   I'm not the Davis Cup captain, I guess.   Shouldn't really be a selection issue. 
Q.   One of the most important things about Davis Cup is the team spirit.   Your thoughts on that? 
  DANIEL EVANS:   Yeah, it's just ‑‑I mean, I have nothing against him.   I just wouldn't do it personally.   He's a nice guy.   He's played Davis Cup for a different country.   I just don't think it would be right if he played Davis Cup for our country.
Q.   (Indiscernible.) 
  DANIEL EVANS:   Like I said, I don't have anything against him.   It's a tough one, isn't it? 
  I think becoming British, yeah, it's fine.   But you shouldn't play Davis Cup if you've already played for a different country.   It's not football. 
  Like I said, nothing personal against him.   Like, I know him.   A guy who used to work for the LTA, James Davidson, coached him.   He's a good guy.   It's just one of those things.
Q.   (Indiscernible.)
  DANIEL EVANS:   I wasn't born when (indiscernible).
Q.   Speaking of football, are you going to fit watching the World Cup around all of your tennis commitments?
  DANIEL EVANS:   Hopefully we don't go far (laughter).
  No, I think it will be interesting to see what everybody does actually on Saturday.   Obviously there will be a lot of people playing quallies in Eastbourne. 
  There will be a few Brits in the main draw.   It will be interesting to see where their loyalties lie.
  I remember the last one.   Was it when we played Germany?   Was that World Cup?   World Cup.   I was playing ‑‑I did an enter in Manchester futures.   I was playing ‑‑I was devastated.   All you could hear in Manchester was everyone screaming in there.   I was on the first court.   I couldn't see what was going on, you know, like a first‑round futures qualifying.   It wasn't even main draw. 
  It should be good. 
Q.   How excited are you about Wimbledon at the moment?   How much are you looking forward to it? 
  DANIEL EVANS:   Yeah, definitely.   I haven't got a wildcard yet.   Presuming I get one.   It could be a good couple of weeks, I think.   Obviously I have a wildcard next week, and then playing in Wimbledon will be ‑‑I haven't played the main draw I think for two years.   So it will be good.   Looking forward to it. 
  You know, it would be nice to get a favorable draw, preferably not one like today or Melzer again.   But, yeah, get a few matches in and cause a few upsets would be good.
Q.   You like playing on the grass.   What was it like playing against someone with a massive serve? 
  DANIEL EVANS:   Yeah, it's just tough.   Like   today wasn't a nice feeling.   No continuity on the court, no rhythm.   Nothing, really.   It was one of those things. 
  That's his game, but he did play really well.   He served a hell of a match.
Q.   There was a tweet that the crowd won't get behind you in the same way the French crowd gets behind Monfils.   Did you feel like that?
  DANIEL EVANS:   No, I thought the crowd was good actually the last two days.   It's a bit different on the television watching it, I think.   I think they were very good, to be honest.   Really good. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT