AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 16, 2014
Daniel Evans
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 T. KAMKE/D. Evans
  6‑2, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How much does that upset your preparations for Wimbledon?  
DANIEL EVANS:   It was a good match.   Just didn't take the chances, yeah, when I had the chances.   A bit like last week, a little frustrating.  
Yeah, I'm pretty angry right now.   It's annoyed me that much.  
   
 Q.   Anything you've got to work on specifically?   
DANIEL EVANS:   No.   Like I got the chances.   Just didn't take them when I needed to, you know, put the ball in the court at the key times.   
I don't know if you were watching, but, yeah, I missed a lot at the wrong time.  
   
 Q.   He didn't miss at all, did he?   He barely missed at all?   He didn't miss much.   
DANIEL EVANS:   Yeah, but he didn't do much, either.   It was just ‑‑it was a frustrating match.   Just couldn't really get going.   
But, yeah, a credit to him.   He did play very well I daresay.   You're right, Neil.   (Smiling.)  
   
 Q.   You seemed to be quite frustrated with some of the decisions, as well, that didn't seem to go your way.   
DANIEL EVANS:   Yeah, was a shambles at the start.   The ball was out.   
And, yeah, just didn't understand why he got near it, wouldn't listen to what I was saying, just basically thought he was right, which was pretty annoying.  
   
 Q.   What will your preparations be now?  
DANIEL EVANS:   Head back to ‑‑probably go home for a day, and then, yeah, Birmingham, and then head south again to Linden and start practicing Wednesday through to Sunday.   Then depending if I play Monday or Tuesday at Wimbledon.  
   
 Q.   How is your knee feeling?  
DANIEL EVANS:   Yeah, it's sore.   I mean, it's not ideal, but, yeah, it's manageable.   It was pretty sore today.  
Last week it was fine.   This week it's been pretty sore.   Just manage it day by day.   
   
 Q.   Does the grass make it especially tough?   Because it does kind of call on different muscle sets.   
DANIEL EVANS:   No, the clay wasn't good at all.   
   
 Q.   Wasn't?   
DANIEL EVANS:   That's why I didn't really play that much.   
No, the grass ‑‑the grass is fine.   I mean, the courts in England, they're all pretty good, I think.   It was a little slippy there today, but there was no problem with the courts to do with my knee.  
   
 Q.   Were you looking for a run in this tournament?  
DANIEL EVANS:   Yeah.   Yep.   
   
 Q.   Sometimes the week before Wimbledon people have a different approach.   
DANIEL EVANS:   No, I'm looking for a run in any tournament at the minute.   Otherwise I'm going to be dropping like a stone come September.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT