U.S. OPEN
August 26, 2013
Daniel Evans
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. EVANS/K. Nishikori
  6‑4, 6‑4, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Where does this rank among your best days in tennis, Dan?
DAN EVANS:   No, it's definitely a good one.   That was pretty good out there to play so well and against someone so highly ranked.

Q.   Did you have a feeling that you were going to be able to turn out your best today when you arrived?
DAN EVANS:   Yeah, I felt pretty confident all through the week, and that was a good match.   I wasn't worried.   I spoke to a few of you yesterday and I was pretty confident.

Q.   He said he hadn't heard much about you.   You obviously took him by surprise in a whole manner of ways.   Really went for your shots. 
DAN EVANS:   Yeah.   Yeah, there isn't that much like background like work you can do on me at the minute anyways (Laughter).   I guess ‑‑yeah, I mean, it's not that hard to work out how I play after a set, so I think I was just better than him.

Q.   Do you think it's an advantage maybe that some of the players don't know that much about it coming through the qualifiers?
DAN EVANS:   Yeah, a little bit.   Everyone has that at the start, I guess, so...

Q.   You talked yesterday how easily you beat Donskoy in the Davis Cup.   This was No. 11 in the world. 
DAN EVANS:   No, yeah, don't really know how to answer that.   Wasn't really a question.   It was really a statement. 
Just sort of got to go with you on that one.

Q.   Do you feel nerves at all?
DAN EVANS:   Not today.   I didn't really ‑‑I have played so many matches it's sort of like every day is rolled into one at the minute.   I didn't really know it was Monday today, either. 
Sort of just ‑‑it's just been going on.   So it's been a good trip, and, you know, few more days left yet.

Q.   Do you ever feel nervous, Dan?   The way you play, you look like you never feel nervous. 
DAN EVANS:   Davis Cup I was pretty nervous, but I think like today it's just for me.   It wasn't really for ‑‑it's not for anyone else.   It's for me and the other two guys who're here with me. 
I didn't feel that much pressure that I had to turn out a really good performance like 15 other people.

Q.   How important was the first game of the third, holding the serve then?   I think if he's have got a little bit of an adrenaline rush it would have been a little bit different third set. 
DAN EVANS:   Probably would have put it to four.

Q.   How important was the Davis Cup against Russia?   Because originally you weren't in the team, and then you were a late pick, and then it obviously all turned out so well.   Was that a really crucial moment in your career?
DAN EVANS:   Yeah, it was definitely ‑‑it was good how it worked out. 
So, yeah, I mean, every match, when you win against someone who is much higher ranked, definitely gives you confidence.   A sort of rolled on from there, you know.   It's been definitely a good few months for me.
But it's not just about like seven months of the year.   I need to do it for like 11 months out of the year. 

Q.   Liam has changed a lot of belief in you, as well.   That must be nice. 
DAN EVANS:   Yeah, it is nice.   Yeah, I mean, it's always ‑‑everyone at the LTA has shown a lot of belief in me, you know, rightly or wrongly.   So, you know, I've got them to thank, as well. 
It's not just I won the match today that I'll come away with a coach and a fitness trainer.   Nick was out here for two weeks before doing the challengers, so, you know, I've got them to thank.   I wouldn't be able to pay for that, so those guys paying for that helps a lot.
It's been a very good trip.

Q.   For someone like you ‑ and the money is very good here ‑ when you're on court you're obviously not thinking about that.   I guess for you it's not life changing, but have you ever thought about how much it is and how much could be at stake?
DAN EVANS:   Not really.   I think ‑‑no, not really.   I sort of just been‑‑ you know, means more to win the matches than the money.   It's a bonus, the money. 
But I really want to be top 100, so that's when the money will start to come in, is when I'm top 100 consistently.
It is an added bonus.   But, you know, it would be a bit strange if I was just thinking about the money after I've just beat the 11th seed. 

Q.   (Indiscernible.)
DAN EVANS:   Yeah, I said that to the Sky team, that the points start now in the Grand Slams.   So that's my main goal, is to get really high in the points and (indiscernible) obviously in the Grand Slams.

Q.   Andy has obviously spoken to you and done some very positive tweets about you.   How kind of good does that feel, confidence from somebody who is at such a rarified level as his to be impressed by what you're doing?
DAN EVANS:   No, it's good.   I mean, like, I think British tennis, and like a few years ago wasn't so much of a team.   Like it feels like everyone wants everyone to win now and everyone speaks to everyone and supports.   Like Flembo was out there today supporting.   Greg was there supporting. 
It feels a bit more like that now, like everyone is sort of together.   Definitely I'm not sure about the women's, but definitely on the men's side.   I think that's what NTC has sort of like been trying to do, like get everyone to be as one and train together and work hard together.
It's been good.

Q.   Andy was saying yesterday after his Wimbledon win helped everybody, you can all draw on that. 
DAN EVANS:   Yeah, it's not nice when, you know, you're playing a match and no one ‑‑you've got three other people there and no one is watching.   It's always nice that someone comes out and supports.   Definitely good to know that the other countrymen want you to win.   Nice feeling. 

Q.   (Question regarding Laura mentioning his Jesus tattoo.)
DAN EVANS:   I'm not sure on her hairstyle sometimes, but, hey.   (Smiling). 

Q.   Would you quite like to play Tomic?   Would that be a match that would really quite excite you?
DAN EVANS:   Yeah, it would be another good match, I guess.   Yeah.   I think, yeah, he'll probably pull through.   He pulls threw a lot of five set matches.

Q.   In terms of matchup and styles... 
DAN EVANS:   I prefer to play Ramos, if I'm honest.   It would be a bit of a better matchup.

Q.   Why?
DAN EVANS:   I think his favorite surface is clay, so on a quick hard court that's pretty good.   But, yeah, we'll see what happens.   Either one is fine.   Got to play one of them.

Q.   Self‑belief, something like this win gives you, you come off having beaten a guy ranked like that, do you say to yourself, I am that good player; I knew I could do that?
DAN EVANS:   Yeah, I mean, I knew I was a good player, but I just hadn't put it all together.   I was pretty calm today.   It wasn't like ‑‑wasn't that much of a big deal what was happening on the court.   I wasn't nervous serving it out. 
Just played ‑‑I played another good match.   I've played some good matches for the last five weeks.   It was just ‑‑like I really want to go far in the tournament, win a few more matches.   Like today I did, and I'm ready to play again.

Q.   Nishikori just told us he knew very few things about you.   How about you?   How much did you know about him?   What was your strategy coming in to that match?
DAN EVANS:   I mean, yeah, it's not ‑‑it's pretty easy to know a lot about him.   He's pretty famous and I have seen him play a lot, so I knew quite a lot about him.
To be aggressive was good for me, and then that was my plan.

Q.   (Question regarding second serve.) 
DAN EVANS:   Yeah, that was definitely one of the ideas.   He served quite a few double faults, as well.   That helped.

Q.   You're not getting flustered when you're behind.   Is that an important element, as well?
DAN EVANS:   Yeah, I think ‑‑yeah, you have seen me play quite a few matches.   I think one of my strengths is definitely fighting and staying in the set.   In the first set, like when I was down a break, I was just saying, Stay at one break, and then his serve wasn't that big and it wasn't troubling me that much. 
I think I had Love‑40 once and hit one out of the court.   I had some chances.   It was just sort of staying with him.   Just shows you stay with any player they can go away.

Q.   Can you describe some of the differences from a tournament like this and a year ago you were maybe playing some 10‑Ks or whatever?
DAN EVANS:   Yeah, I was playing Wrexham last year.

Q.   Wrexham?
DAN EVANS:   Wrexham, yeah. 

Q.   Is there anything you can point out, like a detail you notice... 
DAN EVANS:   I prefer to be in Wrexham now than NewYork. 
No, I'm kidding (smiling). 
No, I don't know.   It just shows that sort of like younger boys, it can go pretty quick if you get your stuff together.   Yeah. 
So, well, at the start of the year I was playing futures.   I played a 10‑K in Sweden not so long ago.   I guess it's the way it works sometimes.

Q.   (Indiscernible.)
DAN EVANS:   Yeah, it can be.   I guess, yeah.   Definitely it's ‑‑ no one is watching.   Yeah, it's not ideal, is it?   Better to be here. 

Q.   Do wins this week change your target from where you can be by the end of the year in terms of ranking?
DAN EVANS:   Yeah, I mean, obviously if I win another match and get some more points ‑‑like I didn't even look.   I don't really look at the rankings that much.   I don't really know the point stuff.   I don't even know how many points I get for qualifying.
Let's just see what I'm doing.

Q.   When you were in Wrexham 12 months ago, would you believe it would be possible that you could be here now?
DAN EVANS:   Yeah, but you don't see a route.   You know, like it's a pretty blocked path.
Yeah, it just shows that you can, if you get your stuff together and just win some matches, you know.   Not like some people.   Like Janowicz, he was in Sheffield last year playing futures start of last year, I think.   He's doing pretty good now.   Goes pretty quick. 

Q.   You talk about Davis Cup and playing in front of other people.   The hard work you put in, how has that paid off with a result like this?
DAN EVANS:   Yeah, I'm happy with how the day went and how the match went, but I really want to win the second round.   One round isn't enough at the minute.   So I want to win again on Thursday. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT