AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 9, 2014
Daniel Evans
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. EVANS/J. Melzer
      6‑3, 6‑7, 7‑6 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Good win.   
    DANIEL EVANS:   Yeah, a good win.   Played well.   Took my chances when I needed them and fought back from a break down in the third.   
    It was a good day.  
   
 Q.   How would you rate that win in your career?   You've had other successes, the US Open, but a win at home...  
    DANIEL EVANS:   Yeah, he's a tough player.   I think grass is probably one of his favorite surfaces, as well.   He's got all of the shots to be dangerous on grass.   It was a good match.  
   
 Q.   How much will it help you having played last week in Nottingham?  
    DANIEL EVANS:   Yeah, obviously we've got a few more matches than he's played on the grass.   Movements are pretty tricky on the grass especially.   So, you know, that's a benefit of having a challenger in our country and being able to play it.  
   
 Q.   How would you rate your year so far?   
    DANIEL EVANS:   It's been a bit sporadic, the year.   Been a bit injured, as well.   There's been some good tournaments, been some pretty bad tournaments.   Solid year so far.   Sitting at 130 with some good tournaments coming up.   Still in this tournament.   
   
 Q.   What would you consider success in the next few weeks?  
    DANIEL EVANS:   Obviously Wimbledon is the tournament you want to win the matches in because there are more points there.   
    So, yeah, second, third round, fourth round of Wimbledon, pretty good.   Definitely winning some matches in Wimbledon will be definitely a goal, yeah.  
   
 Q.   (Question about others who have won today.)  
    DANIEL EVANS:   Yeah, definitely.   I wouldn't say I'm supporting him just yet, but we're definitely going in the right direction.   (Laughter.)  
    Q.You said you had a couple injury issues.   Anything specific?  
    DANIEL EVANS:   Yeah, my knee.   Got a slight problem in my knee.  
   
 Q.   Still?   
    DANIEL EVANS:   Yeah.   Have to take some time off after the grass.  
   
 Q.   Does winning today make it even more pleasing?  
    DANIEL EVANS:   No, I can still play.   It's just not ‑‑it's not right at the minute.  
   
 Q.   Is it hurting out there on court?   Are you taking injections or painkillers?  
    DANIEL EVANS:   Yeah, painkillers and a few other things.  
   
 Q.   If it wasn't grass, if it wasn't at home, would you be resting up now?  
    DANIEL EVANS:   Probably, yeah.  
   
 Q.   What knee is it?  
    DANIEL EVANS:   My left one.  
   
 Q.   Does that just sort of indicate how important it is, how important these tournaments are to you?  
    DANIEL EVANS:   Yeah, but, you know, you want to play your home tournaments.   I especially like playing in Britain.   And especially when you get the chance to, you know, you're given a lot of opportunities, I think it's only right you sort of pay back, digging in and trying to win the matches.  
   
 Q.   When did you first sustain the injury?  
    DANIEL EVANS:   Last September.  
   
 Q.   Been quite a while then?  
    DANIEL EVANS:   Yeah, yeah.  
   
 Q.   In terms of managing it, you know, after the matches and stuff, what do you do?  
    DANIEL EVANS:   Just normal stuff:   ice, massage, etcetera.  
   
 Q.   Any potential operations?  
    DANIEL EVANS:   Hopefully not (smiling).   
   
 Q.   What did you think about Andy Murray appointing a female coach?   Were you surprised?  
    DANIEL EVANS:   Not really, no.  
   
 Q.   For you it's not an issue?  
    DANIEL EVANS:   No, no.   She's got a pretty good CV, I'd say.   No issue.   
    He obviously thought that was the right person for the job, and it happened to be female.  
   
 Q.   Do you think the more players will now appoint female coaches now that one has sort of gone through and done it?  
    DANIEL EVANS:   I don't know.   It's hard to say, isn't it?   Maybe a few will try it if he starts winning Grand Slams with Mauresmo in his corner.   That can easily happen.  
    I don't really know anything about his reasons.   He obviously had his reasons.  
   
 Q.   Would you imagine yourself doing it if Julien was a woman or something?  
    DANIEL EVANS:   He's probably the furthest human away from a woman.   He's as bold as anything.  
    I mean, I don't even have an opinion on it.   You know, as long as he's happy, I guess, then British Tennis is in a good place.  
   
 Q.   Around the futures circuit in these far‑flung places, do you see any instances of women coaches?   
    DANIEL EVANS:   Istomin was coached by his mother.  
   
 Q.   But players lower ranked, it's obviously not common.   Did you see some instances of it?  
    DANIEL EVANS:   To be honest, I didn't really look.   Off the top of my head, I couldn't think of anyone.  
   
 Q.   Anderson next round.   Have you played him before?  
    DANIEL EVANS:   Yeah, I played him in a challenger ages go when I was about 18.   
    Yeah.   Should be a good match.  
   
 Q.   Do you fancy your chances against him?  
    DANIEL EVANS:   Definitely, yeah.   
    Yeah.   It will be a tough match, but I'll just play my game and see what happens.  
   
 Q.   You have beaten higher‑ranked players than him?  
    DANIEL EVANS:   I'm looking forward to playing him, to be honest.   It's always nice winning matches in the bigger tournaments.   
    I was disappointed last week when I lost to Marinko.   Good player, highly ranked.   It's nice to win today and hopefully play on centre again.  
   
 Q.   Have you done any more stuff with Tim?   You had some hits with him.   
    DANIEL EVANS:   No, I haven't really, not since obviously ‑‑it was just on the clay we hit, and then he was pretty busy doing a few other things.  
    Then I went on to do the French, and then straight from the French I went to Nottingham.   Haven't really been around.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT