U.S. OPEN
August 29, 2013
Daniel Evans
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. EVANS/B. Tomic
      1‑6, 6‑3, 7‑6, 6‑3 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Is that the best win of your life?  
    DANIEL EVANS:   Well, I guess so.   Third round.   It was a decent effort.   Especially the first set wasn't great, was it?   It was nice to come back and level it off in the second after being a break down.   
   
 Q.   Was that a nerves thing in the first set?  
    DANIEL EVANS:   No.   Wasn't nerves.   I was pretty relaxed.   He just played so slow, so strange, that I basically did what he did.   Then, yeah, I wasn't very good at it, was I?   
   
 Q.   At one point you had been broken, 30‑Love down and said you've got to get the ball in the Fing court.   Are you pleased at how well, you pulled yourself together?  
    DANIEL EVANS:   I'm not pleased with the F bomb, but I'm pleased with that (smiling).   
    That's probably the best I've had to fight back.   In Davis Cup I've always been pretty much up when I've won the matches, as well.   So everyone and anyone after going down a set 6‑1 and 3‑2 down, they think I'm done and dusted.   
    That was pleasing I could find some belief inside and come back and find my game, because it wasn't there.   I looked at the clock, I think it was 34 minutes, I was a set and a break down.   It was looking like the airport for me.   
    So, yeah, it was good.   
   
 Q.   Have you played in a tiebreak, in a pressure situation, as well as that?  
    DANIEL EVANS:   Not really.   But he gave me a lot of opportunities to play.   He made me look pretty good in the tiebreak.   He was just pushing the ball into the middle of the court.   It was like I had to be brave and hit the ball.   
    But, yeah, that's what he sort of makes you do.   He lures you in.   You saw it, I can't remember the game, but I was breakpoints 15‑40, I missed a forehand long, hit a dropshot.   He sort of makes you miss those balls.   
    But the tiebreak was really, really good tennis I think from me.   But, yeah, it wasn't that high quality of a tiebreak.   I sort of got on top and then rolled him.   
   
 Q.   Roger Federer said some nice things about you today after you hit with him yesterday.   You could meet him in the fourth round.   Could you talk about that, without looking too far ahead.   Something to aim at, isn't it?  
    DANIEL EVANS:   Yeah, it is ever.   Like I've got Dancevic or Robredo first.   Like if I said to any of you guys that I play Federer in the fourth round, you would have laughed at me, so I'm not going to say that.   
   
 Q.   When you look back at what happened to you in the challengers, losing those finals, having had match points in both, is that a character‑building thing?   That strengthened you coming in here?  
    DANIEL EVANS:   I mean, it happens, doesn't it?   I mean, I just think it was coincidence that it happened both weeks.   It wasn't like I was majorly up.   Well, the first one I was up.   The match point come like on his serve.   The match point come on the other guy's serve in Aptos.   
    I mean, those matches were two freak matches.   I should have powered to go 5‑2 against Pospisil in the third and I probably would have won that match.   But it wasn't the match point that lost me the match there.   
   
 Q.   How was hitting with Federer?   Was that Paul Annacone who set that up?  
    DANIEL EVANS:   No, yeah, it was amazing actually to sort of hit with someone so good.   I really enjoyed it.   Actually had a really good hit.   It was a very good experience to hit with someone.   A nice guy.   Was interested in what I did.   It was good.   
   
 Q.   Did Paul ask you?  
    DANIEL EVANS:   I was just told that I was hitting with him.   I'm guessing it come from Paul, yeah.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk us through the sensitivity in the medical timeout?  
    DANIEL EVANS:   Well, my nipples were about the color of your shirt (smiling).   
   
 Q.   Have you had that before?  
    DANIEL EVANS:   Had it in Aptos.   I don't know what it was.   It was just agony.   Oh, the stick I'm going to get back home is, like, devastating (smiling).   
    Yeah, God, one of those things.   
   
 Q.   There was a tweet about you trying to practice with Tomic in Miami and him saying no.   
    DANIEL EVANS:   Yeah, it was quite funny actually.   I was there playing quallies.   His dad sort of fobbed me off and said I wasn't good enough to practice with him, yeah.   I remembered that.   Because we spoke the other day.   
    Yeah, we went to practice, it was all booked.   Got to the court.   In Miami, there's a little practice hut.   I got to the practice hut.   No, no, he's a qualifier, I'm not hitting with you.   
    So it was one of those.   A bit embarrassing, but hey.   
   
 Q.   Have you spoken to Bernard about it?  
    DANIEL EVANS:   Yeah, I know him pretty well.   Like played juniors with him.   But I don't think it was his doing.   He wasn't there.   
   
 Q.   This year, was it?  
    DANIEL EVANS:   No, that was last year when I played qualifying in Miami.   
   
 Q.   How do you actually feel you are playing?  
    DANIEL EVANS:   I played well today, but I missed quite a lot.   I mean, I didn't serve great I don't think.   Like I served pretty decent at times when I needed to.   
    In the last match, I was really clinical.   I could have been a bit more clinical today.   Maybe a bit harsh.   I just won against Tomic.   
   
 Q.   Exciting to be in the third round of a Grand Slam?  
    DANIEL EVANS:   Yeah, I can definitely serve better than I did today.   Like I said, I served pretty well when I needed to.   So that sort of makes up for it.   
   
 Q.   Robredo is up at the moment.   Assuming he wins, is he a guy you've had anything to do with or know anything about?  
    DANIEL EVANS:   No.   Watched him quite a bit.   Got a one‑handed backhand.   Take a bit more interest in people that have one‑handed backhands when I'm watching matches.   I think his preferred surface is clay.   
    See what happens.   
   
 Q.   Maybe have a chat with Andy, because Andy played him at Wimbledon.   
    DANIEL EVANS:   I'm sure Andy will tell me a few things about him, so...   I know he can win a few five‑set matches, I've heard.  
   
 Q.   Did Andy tell you anything about Tomic?  
    DANIEL EVANS:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   You going to let us know?  
    DANIEL EVANS:   No (smiling).   
   
 Q.   With the heat today, your conditioning must have been pretty good.   Reasonably long match.   
    DANIEL EVANS:   That was another thing.   Tomic looked pretty tired, especially in the third and fourth, like when it was going on and on.   I think he challenged quite a few balls, a bit of breathing space.   That gave me a bit of confidence.   
    Got a good fitness trainer with me here.   Worked with him hard for seven weeks.   I was with him three weeks before Wimbledon, as well.   So he's done a good job.   I think it's a testament to him that I lasted that match.   I don't feel sore at all at the minute.   Just sore feet, so...   
   
 Q.   Are you in the best shape of your life, would you say?  
    DANIEL EVANS:   Yeah, probably.   
   
 Q.   What's the reaction been like back home?  
    DANIEL EVANS:   I'm guessing it's pretty good.   I haven't looked at Twitter.   I tweeted about something else.   But, yeah, we'll see.   Should be a decent party for my mates tonight because it's Thursday.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT