AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 10, 2013
Daniel Evans
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. EVANS/G. Pella
  6‑3, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions.

Q.   It was serious for a moment when you went down, but it's okay?
DANIEL EVANS:   Yeah, it's pretty sore, but it's all right I think.   I will see how it is tonight.   I guess we'll see if it's pretty sore tonight if there's anything wrong with it.

Q.   It's a strain, is it?
DANIEL EVANS:   I think so.   Yeah, I heard a bit of a crack and a crunch.   Haven't needed it, so it's all right.

Q.   Otherwise, it's quite a way to start a great British summer apart from the weather?
DANIEL EVANS:   Nothing wrong with the weather today.   It's dry. 
No, it was fine.   It was a good match.   I started well last week also, so, I mean, the Brits have had one more extra week on the grass than most other players who were playing.   Played the challenger last week.   So it was a good way to start and get some matches on the grass.

Q.   Winning a futures and then going to Nottingham and doing what you are doing now, did you notice when you got out a difference in how you feel?   The confidence, does it build quite quickly?
DANIEL EVANS:   Yeah, I mean, it doesn't take much, regarding confidence, any sort of level winning matches you gain confidence from.   So, yeah, you obviously get more confidence from beating better players, but I was pretty confident after Sweden and then I had like two weeks' training after that. 
So, you know, it had gone by then, you know, match tightness.   So coming into Nottingham I was pretty fresh and ready to go.

Q.   How did you feel going out there?   Obviously your last experience on that court wasn't great.   Do you feel pretty good about things?
DANIEL EVANS:   Yeah.   I remember a lot more this time.
Yeah, I probably wasn't ready to play last time, I guess.   Yeah, it was no one's fault.   So when they offered me the wildcard I took it.   Looking back, I definitely wasn't ready to play, so, you know, just my level wasn't good enough.
So that was pretty much that.   It was just pretty apparent watching, I'm sure it would have been, but I just wasn't good enough then.

Q.   What do you think of your level now?
DANIEL EVANS:   Pretty good, I'd say. 

Q.   When Wimbledon wildcards are announced, would you feel ready now for a Wimbledon wildcard?
DANIEL EVANS:   I was ready all the other times for the Wimbledon ones, but I just didn't ‑‑ had pretty tough draws, didn't really ‑‑didn't really get many opportunities. 
The Mayer match I had a pretty good chance, but, I'm not‑‑ you know, I'm not guaranteed to get a wildcard, to be honest.   I'm pretty confident going into quallies.

Q.   Do you think today might help?   Because they're making the decision this week.   The way you have been playing recently... 
DANIEL EVANS:   I have heard they're pretty strict on the 250 rule, so I'm guessing I'll be in quallies.

Q.   All the training and the importance of concentrating on it, has it been a very good spring in terms of how much... 
DANIEL EVANS:   I didn't hear you.   The training? 

Q.   Yeah, the quality and time you have put in, has that been much better? 
DANIEL EVANS:   I have probably not played enough since Davis Cup, but the schedule has panned out, like I hadn't entered and, you know, I wasn't ‑‑before Davis Cup I wasn't really, I didn't know what I was going to do.   And I got a bit injured after Davis Cup.   I hurt my hamstring, I think it was. 
So it was a bit ‑‑it was a bit sporadic.   I went to Sweden and then sort of went through and then had two weeks off and then played Nottingham.
So it wasn't that good, but, you know, I got some good training in, and maybe that's what I needed for a decent summer.

Q.   Are you kind of working more closely with Leon at the moment?   Is he kind of... 
DANIEL EVANS:   I just ‑‑yeah.   I think that's just how it's panned out.   Magnus has to be in Sweden because this was never his week to do.   But he left last week also because his wife is doing a marathon.   He has to be at home basically for his kid. 
But Leon is always around even when Magnus is around, and Magnus was leaving.   So I guess I'll‑‑ you know, I will be working quite a bit with Leon, because there's not that many coaches now at the NTC. 
If that does happen, that would be a good thing.   We know each other pretty well, and he knows me pretty well and I have had some decent results when he's been by my court, so that's pretty good.

Q.   And he's picked you for the last Davis Cup tie which is kind of a show of faith, wasn't it, as well?
DANIEL EVANS:   Yeah.   Stuff like that gives you confidence that the guy believes you new.   It's always nice to have a guy on the side you can look at and you know he's behind you rather than not behind you.   It's nice. 

Q.   Do you think you're doing anything in the last few months different on or off the court that's helped and is improving?
DANIEL EVANS:   Yeah, for sure.   I mean, the off‑court stuff had to improve.   You know, from January this year I have been trying to improve not just before but‑‑ not just after Davis Cup but from January onwards it was pretty apparent I needed to sort all that rubbish off the court out, and that's what I have done and that's definitely what the NTC have hammered quite a lot. 
They have had someone on my back quite a lot, checking up and seeing what I'm doing.   It's been just what I needed. 

Q.   Do you enjoy the fact that your luck has changed in that way? 
DANIEL EVANS:   I enjoy a nice change, yeah.   It's nice to not be waking up tired, having to sleep and etcetera, etcetera. 
So, yeah, it's always nice.   Winning a tennis match is always better than going out.   It's a lot cheaper, as well.   (Laughter.)
Q. Did you see what Andy Murray said, giving you encouragement, saying you've got great potential but you have to work at it harder?   Did you pay attention to that?
DANIEL EVANS:   Yeah, I saw quite a lot, so it was‑‑ you know, just it's not what anybody else can say.   It's up to me.   Everybody said it to me before, and I was, you know, throwing it back at them. 
It's up to me now to hopefully do it for a sustained period of time, and I have been doing it now for what, two months?   You know, I can beat some pretty decent players, you know, week in and week out, hopefully do it, and I will be playing these tournaments without a wildcard. 

Q.   You set yourself a curfew?   You're in bed by a certain time each night? 
DANIEL EVANS:   No, the NTC, you have to be in bed by 10:30.   It's good being 15 again.   (Laughter.)
Q.   How do they enforce that? 
DANIEL EVANS:   Yeah, there is a security guard who comes and checks.   That's God's honest truth.   Yeah. 

Q.   What are you doing before you go to bed?
DANIEL EVANS:   Just watching telly.   There is a lot of guys who have a Play Station.   Go out for dinner.   That's all there is, really.   There's not much to do.   It's like a Big Brother house. 

Q.   Is it a good culture?   Not you specifically but with the other guys there?
DANIEL EVANS:   Yeah, like there's definitely no better place for them to ‑‑there are so many of them.   There's loads of them, so, you know, definitely go to them and, you know, I don't see too much of them, but they have all got pretty good results.   So something must be happening, seems to be happening there, which is good. 
Yeah, they're definitely‑‑ you know, they're pretty strict there on the juniors.   That's for sure.

Q.   Is there a sense you'd like to see less of the place because you'd be on tour more and play more matches?
DANIEL EVANS:   Yeah, that would be good to be traveling a full schedule on the ATP Tour.   That's hopefully what I have got to do, win the matches this summer to put myself out there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT