DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 27, 2020
Daniel Evans
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. EVANS/A. Rublev
6-2, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. That was bloody hard work, wasn't it?
DANIEL EVANS: Yeah, it was tough. Just hung in at the end and got through. It was good tennis. Just didn't fancy playing another set. Seemed pretty difficult. I think that's what got me through, yeah.
Q. What are you most pleased about with your performance today?
DANIEL EVANS: Just the variation. I got it just right to hit and mix it up. Sometimes you can do too much of one and not enough of the another. Yeah, I was happy with how I did all that.
Q. How big is it for you?
DANIEL EVANS: Yeah, I mean, semifinals in any tournament on the ATP Tour is great. Just happy to win really, doesn't matter who it's against. Everyone is so good here.
Yeah, I'm just happy to come through.
Q. Particularly difficult to close out the second set.
DANIEL EVANS: Yeah, his game is not a great matchup for me. He doesn't miss many returns. Obviously I have the biggest serve in the world, so it's difficult to come through my service games. I think he did a good job of that today. It was good to get through in the end.
Q. Your thoughts on the next match?
DANIEL EVANS: Yeah, I mean, it's a difficult match. I haven't really thought about it. Recover and do what I need to do, then hopefully play another good match tomorrow.
Q. Besides the fact that you won, what was different to the match you played a couple weeks ago in Adelaide?
DANIEL EVANS: Obviously it was difficult. I mean, I probably shouldn't have played Adelaide. My coach didn't want me to play, but I wanted to play.
Obviously after ATP Cup I was pretty tired. I'm not making excuses. He was better than me that day. But I wasn't physically great that day.
Obviously you saw how much court you have to cover against him. You need to be perfect when you play a guy like him to beat him.
Q. On Monday you will break into the top 30 for the first time in your career. What would you like to say?
DANIEL EVANS: Yeah, it's great. Good achievement. But hopefully two more matches here to play yet. We'll see where I end up on Monday.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT