QATAR EXXONMOBILE OPEN
January 6, 2015
Michael Berrer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. BERRER/R. Nadal
  1‑6, 6‑3, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Very well done.   Was that the most difficult match to close out the whole of your career?  
MICHAEL BERRER:   No.   Actually not.   I'm pretty relaxed at the moment.   I have made an agreement with my wife that I am allowed to play one more year, so I am really enjoying every single day on the tour.   
And, yeah, there was not a lot of pressure today, so closing it out was not the most difficult thing.   I mean, if I would have lost, nobody would have blamed me.   Everybody would have said, hey, great match, thank you, good‑bye.   I would have gone on a flight with my peers to Melbourne.   
Yeah, that's why I risked also on deuce full second serve and I did a double fault.   But I stayed calm. I mean, must have been some benefit to study sports psychology.   Yeah, it was good.   (Smiling.)   
I felt comfortable today, yeah.  
   
 Q.   I think you said on court that the mental aspect of the game had sometimes been difficult for you.   Do you feel that today you have conquered that aspect?  
MICHAEL BERRER:   Yeah, today I did, yeah.   Well, it helps if you do your Master's degree in sports psychology, so you learn some things that may have been applied on the court in the last month.   
But, yeah, it's also on the daily mood and the daily situation.   Today many good things came together, and we should not overrate this now.   It was one victory.   Tomorrow everything can change.   
So, yeah.   It was just a good match and some luck that he came out of injury.   We have to be realistic.   He was not at his best.   But for me, for sure, a memorable victory.  
   
 Q.   What were the other good things that came together that you just mentioned?  
MICHAEL BERRER:   Well, I had an offseason that was really perfect, and my team did everything for me.   I have two children at home, so they had to adjust to that situation, kindergarten time and lunchtime and early bedtime.  
So the whole day was customized for me, and I really did four weeks of great practice and that really helped me.   My game was good today.   I think I played really offensive, and I was able to go through the rallies and it helped, yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT