DUBAI OPEN
December 20, 2014
Jbe' Kruger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   That must have felt really special.   
    JBE' KRUGER:   It was.   After making 1 on the second, I knew the Lord had something special today.  
   
 Q.   What did you hit off the second teethere; on a tough pin, as well, because Darren Clarke was coming in and saying that was one of the hardest pins on the course today.   
    JBE' KRUGER:   Yeah, I think so.   I hit 7‑iron but probably pitched perfect and probably trickled down.   Chan had played with me and left it short, and he hit an absolutely amazing chip and couldn't stop it short.   So it was a pretty tough pin.  
   
 Q.   And the rest of the round went really well with an eagle, as well?   
    JBE' KRUGER:   Yeah, like I say, the Lord has got something special around every corner.   It's been a long year, so it's very special to be able to put it together like that.   
   
 Q.   Ball‑striking‑wise, was it everything going?   
    JBE' KRUGER:   Not really.   I still hit a lot of poor shots.   I think I probably only made probably four putts inside ten feet today.   So I hit it quite close but the par 5s hit for two and just 2‑putted.   It's still a lot of work but I'm really confident.   
   
 Q.   Puts you in great position to try to win your second win on the Asian Tour, isn't it.  
    JBE' KRUGER:   Yeah, it's been a long time coming, but like I always say, the guy who putts best on the last day mostly wins.   So maybe the putts drops tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   You could have been even better, you dropped a couple of shots.   
    JBE' KRUGER:   Yeah, I 3‑putted 17 just now and in the early part of the round, I probably hit it inside of ten feet probably five times and didn't make one.   So it could have been a lot lower.   But you can't complain with a round like that.   
   
 Q.   Where does this leave you now going into the final round?   
    JBE' KRUGER:   Hopefully one shot clear (laughs).   It's the same golf every day.   You still have to hit it well, but like I say, you have to putt well.   I'm glad I'm in contention to actually try and win, but it all comes down to the day and all comes down to putting at the end of the day.  
   
 Q.   Nervous?   Excited?   What would your emotions be?   
    JBE' KRUGER:   Probably not one of them.   It's been a long, tough year, so emotionally just try and keep it together.   So not really nervous because I can't really feel anything.   But I'm definitely excited to be in a position like this.  
   
 Q.   What do you do now, now that you've got the lead at the moment, what do you do now to relax in time for tomorrow?  
    JBE' KRUGER:   Now I'll practise.   Practise and pray, because that's the‑‑ I always say it and I'll say it again.   The Lord is in control and in control of everything.   So I can only do what I can and He will‑‑ if it's meant to be, it's meant to be.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned practise.   Is there anything specifically you'll be working on ahead of tomorrow's round?  
    JBE' KRUGER:   Putting.   I didn't count my putts but I think I probably still had over 30 putts today, and shooting 64, that is pretty cool.   
    But I'm still missing a lot inside ten feet and if I can get it inside ten feet on these greens, they are pretty pure.   Just start them on line.   So I'll definitely still be working on my putting.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT