HONG KONG OPEN
October 18, 2014
Jbe' Kruger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Satisfied with a 66 on day three?   
JBE' KRUGER:   Definitely, after the couple bad holes I had yesterday, I could really, really feel the Lord's presence today.   It was amazing.  
   
 Q.   I suppose it's the nature of this track, the difficulty of it that you can be flying one minute and then faltering the next?  
JBE' KRUGER:   You can.   I actually spoke to my caddie about it.   If you make a mistake, you're going to make bogey with the greens being shaped like that.   So you can't really make a mistake.   But it helps me because it gets my concentration to be a little bit better.  
   
 Q.   Tell me if I'm wrong, but your mood seems to be spot on this week.   You seem to be happy, enjoying it and taking it on the chin, whatever.   
JBE' KRUGER:   I wouldn't really say that.   I wasn't that happy yesterday after I made bogey, double‑bogey.   But I'm certainly inclined to get the upper edge.   I know I said the last time I was here, that's when I play my best, if I can get that right, to take it on the chin, as you say.  
   
 Q.   We sometimes call it bounceback‑ability, and you seem to be able to shrug off the bad shots a little?  
JBE' KRUGER:   I wouldn't really call it bounce back.   I think the Lord is keeping me in the palm of His hand, which you can definitely see.   If you look at holes, like 5 yesterday, it was like He is taking the ball and controlling it.   So it's pretty amazing.  
   
 Q.   Have you looked at that leaderboard?   It's very tight but you're right at the top?  
JBE' KRUGER:   I've looked at it a few times.   I'd like to know what's going on around me.   It is tight.   But at the end of the day, on the final day, it's probably the guy that makes the most putts who wins always.   So it's all about tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Excited?  
JBE' KRUGER:   Very.   I haven't been in this position for quite a while, since probably the last time I was here (laughing).   So I'm very excited.   If it's the Lord's will, it's going to happen.   So we'll see how tomorrow plays itself out.  
   
 Q.   And you're good at drawing on past experience, are you?   Like with the victory on The European Tour and how well you've played across Asia?   
JBE' KRUGER:   Definitely.   I think I've got the experience to actually pull it through.   I've been in this situation quite a few times, in South Africa more often than here.   But this almost feels like South Africa with the weather, and I like this course.   So there's not much difference.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT