HONG KONG OPEN
December 6, 2013
Jbe' Kruger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Well, very well played today, but before we come to the golf, we all heard the terrible news about President Mandela.   How affected were you this morning when you heard that? 
JBE' KRUGER:   I think, you know, it was always coming.   He was in the hospital for a long time.   I think our country lost a real‑life hero. 
Wearing this in his honor, I think he was probably‑‑ he was one of the best people, presidents, I've ever seen. 

Q.   Your start this morning, maybe a bit emotional but the back nine took care of that?
JBE' KRUGER:   I think God took care of that.   You know, I played well.   I swung it‑‑ I probably swung it the best I've swung it in a long time.   I didn't miss many greens.   The putts didn't want to go in. 
You know, on the back nine, if I can make putts like that, you have to know that it's God's hands, it's definitely there.   So I must say, all the glory goes to Him. 

Q.   How do you feel about the weekend? 
JBE' KRUGER:   I'm excited.   I'm playing better for a change.   I'm actually enjoying it.   I think I'm probably hitting it as good as I probably can.   So if the putts goes in, if the putts drops, you never know.   As I said, the Lord knows what He's doing and I'll just keep on doing my part.   

Q.   What do you make of that back nine?   That was something special, wasn't it?
JBE' KRUGER:   I didn't really make anything of it.   I think as I just said, if the putts drops like that, it's definitely the Lord.   I couldn't hit it better the front nine, I just could not make anything.   I actually 3‑putted twice and that was my only two bogeys.
So I think I only missed one green.   So I'm playing really steadily, but definitely, you can see the Lord's hand in everything I do. 

Q.   Well, do you chuckle to yourself just a little bit when the putts start dropping, because you were falling back at the time. 
JBE' KRUGER:   Maybe a little.   I know the Lord is on my side.   I know the Lord is in my heart and I can definitely see if they beginning to in, they continue to go in.   So it's fun to see and to play relaxed golf for a change and to see how everything just unfolds. 

Q.   I'm sure it's fun to be leading the championship; we haven't seen you up here for a little while?
JBE' KRUGER:   Well, at least I've been playing a little better the last couple weeks.   But it's fun to be here for a change.   It really took me all year to start enjoying it again and I think that's probably the key.

Q.   Are you fairly relaxed about your position, not in this tournament, but just generally, without the card and trying to make ends meet? 
JBE' KRUGER:   Yeah, definitely.   I've still got a full European card for next season.   He's taken care of that.   Other than that, I'm just trying to stay emotionally good or emotionally in a good place to be able to give honour to God. 

Q.   Were there some emotions this morning when you woke to the news from home? 
JBE' KRUGER:   I think so.   It was always coming.   He's been sick for a long time.   He's been in hospital for a long time.   I don't know if our country will ever have a leader like that. 
You know, to be able to turn the other cheek when stuff like that happens, to be 24, 26 years in prison, takes a man on a horse, and he's proven that he's definitely just that.   And to lose a real‑life hero like that, you can't live forever, but the Lord knows what He's doing. 

Q.   It sounds like something that you feel personally, as well as just about everybody in the whole nation. 
JBE' KRUGER:   I think it will definitely affect white and black in our country.     He fought probably for the black South Africans, but the white South Africans love him just as much.   He has a good heart and he has the heart of God in him and that's probably what makes a big difference.

Q.   Any personal memory? 
JBE' KRUGER:   Unfortunately not.   I would loved to have met him, but I can't really. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT