CIMB CLASSIC
October 25, 2012
Jbe' Kruger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   A good round but unfortunate last hole.   
JBE KRUGER:   I played well.   I'm playing better.   Unfortunate for the last hole.   But I can't really complain.   I hit it well, made a few good putts.  
   
 Q.   What happened on the last hole?  
JBE KRUGER:   I actually bent my 8‑iron on the 4th hole and I had a flier lie, so I couldn't use a 9‑iron on 18.   I couldn't get there.   I couldn't hit a 7‑iron.   I needed 8‑iron, and it's bent so I can't use it.   And then I compensated a little, hit it in the bunker and didn't hit a very good shot and missed the putt, 6.  
   
 Q.   Still a good round.   Can you go through your birdies?  
JBE KRUGER:   I actually can't remember all of them.   I made a few.   I just think I hit a lot of good shots, making a few putts.  
   
 Q.   But still in a good position going into the next three days?  
JBE KRUGER:   Absolutely.   It's a pity about the double, but it's the first round, it's not the last round.   You've still got a lot of golf left.  
   
 Q.   How was the conditions out there?  
JBE KRUGER:   It was pretty warm.   The course isn't playing that easy.   It's firming up a little, so it's getting harder to stop the ball.   But it's firming up a bit.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel there's a low score for you coming?  
JBE KRUGER:   Definitely.   I was on a low score right now.   I think I can definitely go lower than I went today, but I can't really hit it a lot better than that.  
   
 Q.   What would you do differently tomorrow?  
JBE KRUGER:   Nothing.   I think it's always in God's hands, every single shot.   He likes to test you.   It's not fun playing well and then walking off the last hole, but he likes to test you, and it's a test.   Every day is a test, a test of your faith, so I won't do anything differently.  
   
 Q.   Was there one highlight in your round today?  
JBE KRUGER:   Not really.   I hit a few good shots.   16 hit it pretty close.   Probably my iron play was probably my highlight of the day.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT