BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 23, 2011
Jbe' Kruger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 6-under par for the tournament, how was it today?   
 JBE KRUGER: I enjoyed it. It's my birthday today. I hit the ball well, and the first nine I made some putts, which always helps.  
  
  Q. Eight birdies, two bogeys, what changed in the back nine?  
 JBE KRUGER: I think I probably started playing defensively just a little. Two bogeys I made were silly. But I'm hitting the ball well. I just needed the putter to get going.  
  
  Q. You're game's been in good shape, top ten two weeks ago in Italy. How do you feel for the next days to come?   
 JBE KRUGER: This course is very similar. You need to hit the ball well, and if you hit it well, you can shoot lights out. Of course the greens are phenomenal. I just need my putter to get going.   
  
  Q. Going to have a nice birthday practise round this afternoon?  
 JBE KRUGER: Probably I'm not going to do much.   
  
  Q. Nice way to celebrate your birthday, one off the lead.   
 JBE KRUGER: I had to give myself a bit of a present, it's not a bad birthday present.   
  
  Q. You've been in great form and you played in Asia last week and you were leading there at the halfway age, and you were doing well at Italy; so you must be full of confidence.   
 JBE KRUGER: I'm hitting the ball really well. I just need a few putts to go in, and if the putter starts working, you never know what I might shoot.   
  
  Q. You're hitting the ball a long way and you're not the biggest guy. Where do you get your power from?  
 JBE KRUGER: It's probably from my dad. As I grew up, I did all kinds of sport. My dad was always the strongest, he would run uphill and I learned from that; working hard, you don't have to be big to be strong.  
  
  Q. This course, a few par 4s out there within range, a few par 5s; the course can turn into a driver and a little flip for you, can't it?  
 JBE KRUGER: There's a few holes that driver, 4-iron, driver, 5-iron, par 4s, and there's one that's literally driver and 40 yards. It's a good course and there's a few long holes and a few short holes.  
  
  Q. How do you feel playing on The European Tour, because you seem to have set up pretty well.   
 JBE KRUGER: I love it. The main thing probably for me, the reason I'm playing well, is the greens are phenomenal, and if I hit it -- because I hit the ball pretty well. If I hit it on the green, I can always make it, and if I make three or four a round, I'll always shoot under par.   
 And that's probably the main thing on The European Tour. The course conditions are phenomenal.   
  
  Q. I suppose you've got to keep notching Top-10 and you're in in France.   
 JBE KRUGER: That's the only way I can get into France, so I'm going to play my heart out here.   
  
  Q. How many invites have you had?   
 JBE KRUGER: Only one. I've asked.   
  
  Q. Maybe these performances will get your name recognised. I saw your name, I can't work out where you get the b-e out of Jbe from James Barry. What was the reason for that?   
 JBE KRUGER: Just didn't like it, just the J and the B, because it's James Barry, but I wanted it to be different. It was my parents.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT