TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 12, 2007
Mark Knowles
Daniel Nestor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  What made the difference between the first set and the when you broke them three times and the rest of the match? 
 MARK KNOWLES:  Well, I think we got off to a little bit of a slow start.  Obviously not our best start.  Personally I felt like -- we hadn't played together for a couple weeks.  We were just establishing a rhythm, especially for myself. 
 I played with a different partner for four weeks straight now.  Something that I'm not really accustomed to.  It was just trying to get the bearings and we didn't get off the start we wanted.  That made it equally as tough. 

 Q.  Daniel, would you agree? 
 DANIEL NESTOR:  Not so much.  Played some poor service games and when you do that you give your opponent lots of confidence.  Just inexcusable.  If we hold serve early, we've played together for so long, we're not learning anything out there.  Pretty comfortable. 

 Q.  Just again, comment on the feelings of winning a huge match. 
 DANIEL NESTOR:  Huge win.  Just coming back these guys were playing really well and put some pressure on us in the second set.  We got out and kind of took over from 5-All. 

 Q.  Back to back aces on the two match points. 
 DANIEL NESTOR:  Yeah. 

 Q.  Have you ever done that before, down two match points? 
 DANIEL NESTOR:  No.  I usually double fault on those.  I don't know.  I don't think so. 

 Q.  Mark, can you say something about your mixed doubles partner, Yan Zi?  Today is her birthday. 
 MARK KNOWLES:  Yeah, I would like to wish her a very, very happy birthday.  Obviously I played with Yan a few times in the last year had a great time playing and had pretty good results.  She's a very nice person and very good player, so it's very enjoyable for me. 

 Q.  Would you partner with her next year? 
 MARK KNOWLES:  Yeah, we're going to continue to play next year, as long as she'd like to play with me.  Yeah, I enjoy playing with her a lot and I think we can do really well next year. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT