TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 18, 2006
Mark Knowles
Daniel Nestor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  Q.  Daniel, first of all, you must be very pleased with that performance, to come from dropping that first set down?   
 DANIEL NESTOR:  Yeah, for sure.  We hung in there pretty well.  Considering we lost our two matches against them this year, it was a little bit of a hole.   
 But we fought hard, and we accomplished our goal of reaching the final here.   
  
  Q.  What do you put your form down to this week, good preparation leading in?   
 DANIEL NESTOR:  Yeah, for sure.  We played a lot of matches in the fall, which is key.  We continued our solid play from the first match here.  We feel very good about our chances tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  How keen are you to take the title after a few near misses?   
 DANIEL NESTOR:  Yeah, we haven't been in this final since I don't know what it was...   
  
  Q.  '98.   
 DANIEL NESTOR:  '98 or something.  It's only fitting considering we've probably won the most Masters Series titles that we win the Masters Cup.  We're really going to go for it tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  Mark, how about yourself?  You're on form.  You're pretty happy?  You look pretty calm up there.  I mean, you must be pretty excited about tomorrow.   
 MARK KNOWLES:  Yeah, we're very excited.  Like Daniel said, we've been playing great this fall.  Our goal coming in was to have a strong performance here.  We played well every match.  We're improving with each match.  We played a good solid match today, and we put ourselves in contention tomorrow.   
 It's real exciting, and we're really looking forward to it.   
  
  Q.  Any preferences on the two possible opponents?   
 MARK KNOWLES:  To be honest, not really.  Whoever it is, is going to be tough.  One is the US Open champ; one is the French Open champ.  Anyone in the semifinals is on form.   
 So, you know, for us, the biggest focus is just our games tomorrow.  We go out and execute and play like we did today, and, you know, things should work out for us.   
  
  Q.  Danny, what was up with the chest bump?  Is that a parody on the Bryans?   
 DANIEL NESTOR:  Yeah, it was a poor imitation probably of the Bryans.  But, you know, we were pretty fired up to win there, so we showed a little emotion.   
 Not much air.   
  
  Q.  What about the surface?  Every player has said this surface is very comfortable.  And you?   
 DANIEL NESTOR:  Yeah, we're very comfortable on this surface.  It's a very fair surface.  You can play from the back, you can play from the net.  And, you know, it takes all different game styles - serve and volley, you know, baseline, which is key.  You have the top eight players here.  Not everyone plays the same game style, so it's important to accommodate everyone.   
  
  Q.  We know that in the trend of tennis, the player becomes younger and younger.  How can you keep such good style in such an age?  Sorry.   
 MARK KNOWLES:  That's a very nice question (smiling).   
 You know, Daniel and I, we played singles and doubles for a long time.  The last few years we've just been playing doubles, so it's made it a little bit easier on us physically.  I think both of us had a lot of injuries, especially when we were playing singles as well.   
 Since we've been able to play doubles alone, it's really kind of extended our career a little bit.  We're also wiser.  There's something to be said for experience.  We both work pretty hard on and off the court and try to stay fit and, you know, keep the age away - until somebody reminds us (smiling).   
 Just kidding.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT