CACTUS BOWL: KANSAS STATE VS UCLA
December 23, 2017
Dalton Schoen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What will be the one thing you guys will try to do in the bowl game?  
DALTON SCHOEN: Win the game.   
 Q.  Tell me a little bit about -- you're a wide receiver?  
DALTON SCHOEN: Yes, sir, I'm a wide receiver.   
 Q.  Tell me what that's been like for you this year?  
DALTON SCHOEN: It's been great.  I love playing in our offense.  Get a chance, we get a chance to do a lot of things, spread the ball around and stuff like that.  We have to kind of do stuff wide receivers don't normally like to do, which is block a lot down field, stuff like that.  But we know if we can block down field and create big plays in the run game it will open up our pass game even more, because that's a big thing, we try to give our offense a lot of balance between the two.   
 Q.  What do you think about being here in Phoenix?  
DALTON SCHOEN: It's been a great experience.  Like I was saying earlier, from the moment we got off the plane being received from the representatives of the bowl and all the activities we've been able to do so far and all the stuff later this week, it's been a great experience.   
 Q.  A lot of players don't get a chance to play for kind of an iconic coach.  What's it like playing for Coach Snyder?  
DALTON SCHOEN: It's been a dream come true just because I grew up a huge K-State fan.  Both my parents came to K-State.  I was born and raised wearing purple, coming to the games on Saturdays.  So it's always been a dream of mine to play here.  I honestly never thought it was going to happen.  I was lucky enough to get a shot.  To get to come and play with Coach Snyder, someone you've grown up watching and dream playing for has been fantastic.   
 Q.  What's the toughest game for you guys this year?  I cover the Pac-12.  My attention to the Big 12, maybe ACC is not -- what's the most challenging?  
DALTON SCHOEN: I would say the game we struggled the most or the most challenging team we faced was probably TCU.  For me personally too because I thought that was the best and most well-coached defense we played all year.   
 Q.  I've coached a lot of high school ball.  What do you want to tell those high school players that are trying to get that scholarship?  What do you have to focus on?  
DALTON SCHOEN: Honestly for me, what I would tell most high school players who aspire to play at the next level is enjoy your time in high school right now.  Enjoy that final senior season and worry less about the recruiting until after that season, after that's done, because honestly the high school is going to be the time of your life.   
That senior season should be something you really enjoy and don't focus too much on the next level until that's done.  And after that the recruiting process is a tough thing to get through.  In all honesty it's a grind.  You've got to try to promote yourself.  Me, personally I didn't have any D-I offers.  Came to K-State as a walk on.   
But I think that's something that it will just take care of itself if you go out there and you produce and you just enjoy your time as a senior in high school, enjoy the seasons.   
 Q.  What's it mean to be in another bowl game?  
DALTON SCHOEN: It's great to continue the streak we've had going.  Like to go out there and get the win, get another win on the season and really finish the season the way we should because we had some struggles there midseason went four and five late in the season, so to get one more it will be a nice way to win the season.   
 Q.  What's your offense going to bring to UCLA to cause some issues?  
DALTON SCHOEN: What we aspire to do is to have good balance in the run/pass game; those really complement each other.  From a receiving standpoint, we have to beat man coverage.  We're going to see a lot of man, cover one, cover zero, things like that.  We have to do a good job of identifying the coverages, going out and beating that in the passing game and run the ball well, too.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT