CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: FLORIDA STATE VS MICHIGAN
December 28, 2016
Lawrence Dawsey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. All the way back to spring practice, Jimbo was doing a lot of praising of Travis Rudolph.  Especially with Bobo not playing in this game, what does it mean to have him playing the way he has?
LAWRENCE DAWSEY: He's been steady, constant guy since his freshman year, came in and started making plays, and he hasn't stopped doing that.  I can't say enough for how pleased I am with Travis for being able to continue to do what he's been doing and also lead this group with the young guys, spending time with them, telling them and teaching them what we expect from them to help us to be successful.  It's been great being with him, to have a guy like Travis that you know you can count on.
Q. You're familiar with Don Brown and his defenses.  Does Michigan's defense look pretty similar to what he had at Boston College?
LAWRENCE DAWSEY: It's partly some of the same similarities, but personnel is real special.  They've got real special personnel.  He didn't play as much man as he's playing now when he was at Boston College and what he's doing at Michigan.  Great defensive coordinator, does a great job, and it's going to be our biggest challenge.
Q. Jabrill stands out to you, Jourdan Lewis obviously?
LAWRENCE DAWSEY: Yeah, they've got a great secondary.  The whole defense is really good.  You look at the front, the linebackers, we spent more time watching the secondary, but they've got NFL guys.  No doubt about it.  They've got guys that will be playing on Sunday if they stay healthy.  If you look at Lewis, you've got Peppers right there, and these guys get up in your face.  They're playing man-to-man.  It's not like giving them a chance to get free releases on the zone and just reading the zone.  You've got to be able to mix it up with their guys because this is going to be a physical football game.
Q. Harbaugh wants to come into the south and --
LAWRENCE DAWSEY: No doubt.
Q. Is he having success?  Is he the kind of guy --
LAWRENCE DAWSEY: Oh, he's going to have success.  Harbaugh has had success everywhere he's been.  He came by and did a great job recruiting in this state, even some guys that we wanted.  They want to come in here and make a statement and try to get more kids to come there, and we want to stop them.
Q. Tell them it snows.
LAWRENCE DAWSEY: They need to go up there right now in December, go up there in January and see what it's like compared to down where it's 80 degrees.  It's lovely, lovely.
Q. Lawrence, there's some advantages obviously to recruiting at Florida State, but what does Jimbo do organizationally or from an evaluation standpoint that you think has helped you guys have success?
LAWRENCE DAWSEY: We preach more family, about the kids.  It's not so much football, it's about what we can help you reach, not only on the football field but off the football field.  That's reaching your goals, getting a great college education, and being in an atmosphere that guys feel comfortable with, and then when you look at the success we had, putting guys at the next level, that's just been icing on the cake.  But the main thing, he's came in and tried to build a family atmosphere with the organization more so than one-on-ones and just making everybody feel comfortable with what he's preaching and what his commitment is to them, as well, is what Florida State's commitment will be.
Q. I know a lot of that has to come from the players when they talk to the recruits.
LAWRENCE DAWSEY: No doubt.
Q. Do you guys coach guys up?
LAWRENCE DAWSEY: We don't coach them, it's just who we are.  You go out and you treat guys, and when guys come there and they see what they've been told is going to happen in recruiting and they talk to other guys at other schools like man, I wished I would have did this and that, just make the other guys feel like we made the right choice.  You ain't got to really coach them up, you just tell them, hey, we tell them to come and talk to our players.  That's why we want them to get on campus and be around our guys because that way you can actually see, because the players ain't going to lie to each other.  They may say something good in front of us, but when they get with the kids one-on-one, they're going to tell the truth, and they're going to go, hey, man, this ain't what it's cut out to be, because we don't have guys that been other places and they'll come and tell our recruits, man, it was totally different.  They're talking about this and that, but we don't have a dog and pony show at Florida State.  Jimbo said, we ain't good with that.  We're going to be who we are, setting our program, and we feel like we got to do all that, this ain't the place for you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT