COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
October 1, 1999
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ITF:  Questions for Greg.  
 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I was really pleased with the way I played today.  Having lost the last match indoors in Rotterdam, I really wanted to play a good match today.  I thought I played a lot better than our last meeting.  I was really pleased the way I played the big points, was hitting the ball from the back of the court today. 
 

Q.  Looked as though the topspin backhand was your favorite shot today.  You looked so confident playing that shot. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think I'm just getting better balanced.  I'm starting to get a little bit fitter, starting to feel a little healthier.  I think everything's coming together nicely.  I think this is my time of year when I usually play pretty well.  I don't know, when this September, October, November period arrives, I seem to lift my game, be able to play some good tennis. 
 

Q.  Is Flushing Meadow now a nicely fading blur in your memory?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Just don't bring it up and then it will be.  That's the last time I answer that question (laughter).  
 

Q.  But now you're playing with a lot more positive frame of mind, your self-belief is back, confidence is back. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, I think the key for me is just getting stronger, getting healthier, just getting my movement and balance together.  I feel like I'm more balanced on the court.  I think I'm extending more on my serve.  I think things are coming together nicely again.  Hopefully I can continue on this roll.  The last two matches I've been very pleased with the way I've played.  If I can continue to play like that for the rest of the season, I think I'll have some good results. 
 

Q.  Were you a bit concerned that the momentum from earlier in the week might have gone with the two days in between?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I think probably Andre wanted to play on Thursday, so that's why we played on Friday.  It was a bit surprising starting Tuesday and not playing your next match till Friday.  I think that's just the way it goes in some tournaments.  In this sort of event, you're not going to complain as long as you're still in.  
 

Q.  One of the most pleasing things must have been the way you responded, A, to that early breakpoint against you, and then of course the set point? 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah.  I think that was the key today, the big points.  I got a good first serve in on the break, hit a good volley up the line, then a good angle forehand.  The first set point I hit a forehand winner up the line, then the match point the same thing.  I think those were the three big points.  All three of them I won.  All three of them I played very positively. 
 

Q.  Medvedev and Krajicek.  How do you fancy that?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think Richard is probably going to end up winning.  He was down a break, but he's back on serve now.  I'm going to think he's favored to win that match with being indoors and with his serve and experience.  I'm looking forward to that match if I play Richard, because I lost a tight one to him in Battersea and would like to get that match back. 
 

Q.  Have you changed anything specifically post US Open at all?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  No, not too much.  I think I'm just getting better balance and getting stronger and getting fitter.  I think the body's starting to feel better.  I'm really working on my fitness and just getting healthy, making sure I'm really ready for next season.  I'm already concentrating more on next season than I am this year already.  I think the thing is just being healthy.  I really haven't had a year where I've been fully healthy.  My body is starting to respond, had a little more rest, starting to get better. 
 

Q.  You say you've been working on the fitness.  I can remember in New York you  --?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Not fitness, per se, of like saying like strenuous fitness.  More like stretching, more like taking care of my body, more like having people looking after me.  That's what I mean more by "fitness," rather than physical fitness.  
 

Q.  Never seemed as though you were serving badly at any stage, but first serve percentage early on was in the 30s.  Are you personally in the least concerned?  Your second serve looked more damaging than the second. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  If I'm in the 30s and beat the No.  2 player in the world, I'll be happy with that.  I think I mixed it well.  I think it was more of a strategy match.  We both kind of knew where we were going out there, I knew where he was serving me, he knew where I was serving him.  It was a bit of a mind game out there more than hitting the ball really hard.  We mixed it up.  
 

Q.  It's ironic in a way that if everybody had been fit and they all had come, you wouldn't have been here. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  That's life (laughter).  
 

Q.  But that's the other great thing, or appears to be about this event, while obviously the matches are mostly competitive, there's a good chance for people to come here and be in a little bit more relaxed frame of mind and get their game back into a really great groove. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah.  That's what I wanted to do with the Davis Cup and this week.  That's why I opted out of playing in Toulouse this week.  I wanted to come here because of all the great players that play in this event.  So for me it worked out perfectly.  I've had two matches.  I've played two positive matches against two Top  5 players in the world, and won.  Now I have another great test.  I mean, I can't ask for anything better in an event like this.  I mean, when you get the best players in the world competing against each other, I feel very confident about my indoor ability.  
 

Q.  Talking about that sort of thing, most of us mourn the passing of summer.  I should think you sort of cheer up a bit when you see the nights closing in. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I actually enjoyed my summer this year.  I was at home.  It was quite pleasant.  I was quite sad to see it go because then I had to get back to work (laughter). 
 

Q.  Obviously on grass you're dangerous, but do you feel a much more dangerous player going indoors?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I think I had the best record indoor last season and I had the most wins of anybody.  I was probably rated No.  1 in the world indoors last year.  But I think where it counts for me and my game, my career right now, is the US Open and Wimbledon.  Those are the two major events where I want to prove myself.  I want to try to win.  I think for me it was tough because the last two seasons I missed all the hard court season going into the US Open.  That's where I've played my best Grand Slam tennis ever.  I think I enjoy the summer, but it would be nice to actually play in the summer.  
 

Q.  Why don't you include the Australian in those two?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I don't know.  I think it's a little too slow, still.  I think it's the heat.  I think it hasn't been very favorable to serve-and-volleyers.  The only players able to crack it has been Sampras and Edberg in the past.  I think they keep on slowing down the ball there.  They don't say they do, but they always are slower.  They were much slower than the year prior.  I think the surface, if they want the Australians to do well, they really need to speed it up for the Rafters and Philippoussises.  Hopefully this year they do it.  I hope they haven't resurfaced the courts and let them keep going quick.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT