COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
September 28, 1999
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  P>
ITF:  Questions for Greg.  
 
 
Q.  Birmingham must have been a good start, but that surely was exactly what you needed?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I was really pleased with the way I played today.  I thought the first set, I haven't served so well in a long while.  I didn't really give him too many opportunities.  I played a little bit of a loose game and Guga raised his game in the second set and took advantage of that.  I was pleased with everything in general, from the returns, to the movement, to the serving.  Can't ask for a better start.  
 
Q.  Did you have any problems with the groin?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  No.  That's fine.  I've had a lot of work done on it.  I had some treatment here this week.  It's been very good.  
 
Q.  It's true, you did play that sort of loose game.  At the same time, there was one call in that game and one in the next, you could have won in straight sets, two rather dubious, to put it mildly. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  That's tennis for you.  Sometimes you get the calls; sometimes you don't.  I think it was better for me to play a three-set match.  It's better to come out and win a tough match and have to break near the end to win a match.  It gives you more confidence and helps with indoor season.  I think this is a great event to start the indoor season on.  You're playing on a very, very fast court indoors with the altitude.  From this week on, everything seems a bit slower, which is a bit of a help. 
 
Q.  Is it difficult to get motivated?  Does it alter your motivation with no points?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  No matter where I choose to play, I always give 100%.  It's nice when you're playing against No.  4 in the world.  If you can't get motivated for that sort of match-up, it's pretty tough. 
 
Q.  What was the thinking of coming here instead of Toulouse?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I didn't want 'to lose'.  That's why I didn't go to Toulouse.  You can't help yourself with that one (laughter).  
 
Q.  Is it the fact that the field is stronger here, and if you beat players, that's gives you more confidence?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I think it's a bit of a confidence, a bit of preparation.  I think also because I didn't play very well in Basel last year, I have one tournament that's kind of free for me.  From my point of view, it's good in all respects for my preparation.  I've used the Davis Cup and this week here to really get myself focused for the indoor season.  I love playing these events against top players.  Where am I going to start from the first match playing the No.  4 in the world, my next match after that is going to be the No.  2 in the worldd?  That's great preparation.  If I can win those sort of matches, it gives you confidence for the rest of the indoor season.  
 
Q.  Do you feel you could go as far as you did when you played here before, getting to the semifinals? 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I'm in the quarterfinals, so that's only one match to go (laughter).  But, no, I played Kafelnikov last time I was here.  I beat him in three sets.  It was 6-1 in the third set.  The court was a little bit faster, but the balls are moving very quick.  I think I have a good chance to go to the semi.  I'm looking forward to another tough match against Yevgeny.  I lost to him last time indoors in Rotterdam.  I'd like to get a little revenge from that match.  
 
Q.  Does it help that you don't have to travel 12,000 miles to get to this event as he's had to do? 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  10 or 12, what's the difference?  I don't think that will really affect him.  We won't be playing till Thursday, maybe even Friday, because he gets a bye in the first round.  He gets a few days to settle in.  He'll have two or three days.  I don't think it will make a huge difference.  The rest should help him, so I think it will be a good match. 
 
Q.  We worked out, you earned 1325 pounds a minute. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  If I could do that every day, that would be good.  Try to play 24 hours.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT