DAVIS CUP - USA vs GREAT BRITAIN
April 2, 1999
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think he played some great tennis today; first set in the half, I don't think he missed one ball.  And I got myself back in the match when I broke back, but unfortunately I had too many games at love-40 I didn't put away.  And I think the way Todd played today, I don't think he would have lost to anybody in the world, first set in the half, he was just tremendous.


Q.  How about just, Greg, playing in this World group atmosphere, compared to other Davis Cup matches in the past?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think it was a fabulous atmosphere, I think both myself and Tim are disappointed that we couldn't give the public one win today.  They were there from the beginning to the end, but unfortunately they were just too good to get today.


Q.  It's been a while since your serve has been returned to you like that?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think you were seeing he knew exactly where my serve was before I hit it.  He was standing there hitting serves back, I think I hit one at 140 and he  brought it back like it was nothing.  I wouldn't mind being injured and playing like he did today.


Q.  You played him a few times, is this the best he's ever played?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  By far, I think this is the best anybody's played against me in a long time.  I'd say there wasn't too much I could do.  He was returning well, he was serving so well.  Every time I tried to get back into a game, I had only one breakpoint in two and a half sets until I got to the last service game, which he served.  I was just dominated completely in every aspect today.


Q.  Are you looking forward to the doubles?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  It's 2-love.  We have to win the doubles, there's no ifs, ands or buts about it.  We have to go on with a positive attitude and try to salvage the doubles tomorrow.  If we can get a win, we're back in the tie, and anything can happen.  But we need a win, it's do or die, basically, tomorrow.


Q.  That's where the experience of Battersea will come in?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I hope it will come in.  I wouldn't be surprised if they change their team with Martin and maybe putting Martin and Courier together, considering how well he returned today, I wouldn't be surprised to see a different lineup for the doubles tomorrow.


Q.  There's been so much expectation about this tie, this  is relatively a letdown, isn't?  And how let down are you?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think Tim had a great match, losing in five sets, the public enjoyed that.  It would be nice if he had won, but he gave everything he could.  You couldn't ask for more.  Myself, I was just beaten by someone who was a better player today, and I couldn't give him enough, how would you say -- I got myself back in the match in the second set, but I let myself down too many times when I was up 40-Love on my serve. I couldn't stick with him enough, which is unfortunate.  But he was just too good.


Q.  Do you think Tim's defeat affected you?  How much did you actually watch?
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I was off and on, because I was getting ready to start, and getting ready to go.  I think both of us, Todd and myself, both have the same difficulty preparing for the match, so obviously its tough when your teammate loses the first match, but you've got to be proud of the way he fought and gave everything he could out there.


Q.  After playing your first Davis Cup match in Monaco and you walk out seeing nine thousand people going crazy like that today, what goes through your mind?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  It's nice to get to the World group and play America.  It would have been a nicer feeling if we had the reverse score.  It's great for tennis, and great for British tennis.  Hopefully by the end of the weekend we can  give them something to cheer about.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT