THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 22, 1999
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MIKI SINGH: Questions for Greg.


Q.  Everything seemed to be going pretty well with your serve until the end of the second set?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah.  I think I - for about a set and a half - I was pretty much in control of the match.  I had a few games to deuce.  I had a few chances.  I had a passing shot at Love-15 I should have made to go Love-30.  I had some good opportunities and was in control of the match most of the way until about 5-All, 30-15, when I missed one backhand volley.  Then it went to 30-All, his breakpoint, back to deuce, then I double-faulted to give him the break.  He played a decent game to serve it out.  Early in the third, it got down near the break.  Every time I was down breakpoint, he didn't have to play the point; I gave him three breakpoints, three double-faults.


Q.  How did that come about?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I don't know.  It's always a tough court.  I always find the Grandstand Court a tough court to play on.  Both of us had to deal with the conditions.  I lost feel of the ball 4-2 in the third set.  He played well, but I just didn't keep my level up as high as I could have.


Q.  You were so much in control against Dreekmann yesterday.  For this match you were two points for victory, 5-4 second set?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I was pretty close to winning that one, as well.  It's just one of those matches.  You've got to win to progress in the tournament with a good opportunity.  I haven't been able to win those sort of matches.  I just have to keep on working those and try to win those type of matches.


Q.  It was pretty warm out there.  Did that have anything to do with it?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I didn't think it was warm.  I think the hardest point for both of us was the long match and long wait.  We got on about 3:30, 4:00.  Not before 2:00, both of us had to deal with the long wait.  I think the hardest part is getting the preparation right for that.  Both of us had to deal with the exact same conditions.  He handled them better.  In the second set, he looked like he was almost going to go away.  I just couldn't put it away in the second set.


Q.  As wasted opportunities go, how much of a wasted opportunity is this one?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, it's just another learning experience.  It would have been nice because the draw had opened up.  Obviously it was Clavet the next round, which wouldn't have been a bad match to try to get to the semi of the Lipton.  Obviously it's an opportunity lost.  Just have to get on and get back to London and get ready for that Davis Cup tie.


Q.  Their team was announced this morning.  No real surprises.  Do you have any thoughts on that?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, probably Martin will play if he's healthy in singles.  Courier will be the second singles player, I'm assuming.


Q.  Do you think so, rather than Jan-Michael?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, I think they'll probably put him.  That's the rumor going on at the moment.  The doubles will be Todd Martin-O'Brien, or Courier-O'Brien, probably.


Q.  Why Courier over Jan-Michael, Jan-Michael having a 2-0 lead over Tim?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Probably the experience he has in Davis Cup ties.  Jan-Michael played the last tie I think in Milwaukee.  I think he lost both the singles matches.  They might be going to the Davis Cup experience of Courier, having played in the Davis Cup. 


Q.  Will you be taking plenty of confidence with you to Birmingham, despite this setback?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think my game is improving.  For about a set and a half, I was moving, getting to every ball.  Even though I wasn't making every ball, I was there solid every point.  I'm looking forward to it.  It's back indoors.  For some reason, that indoor surface works pretty well for me.


Q.  Go home tonight or tomorrow?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I don't know.  I'll have to find out where the flight is, but in the next day or two.


Q.  As soon as possible?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Exactly.


Q.  There's a feeling here, we've been told, Americans, they're having a bad time, they don't have the best players. 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  One guy in the Top 10 and another player's a former No.  1.  I think it's a little bit of games going on, a little bit of games.  If we play well, I think we have a good chance to win and we're favored.  It's not going to be an easy tie at all.  I mean, it's going to be a very difficult match.  Martin this year has played better than any of the American players so far.  Courier and Gambill have probably been the most solid behind him.  Agassi really hasn't played that well yet this year.  Sampras, this is the first week where he seems to be getting back his form a little bit.  On paper, realistically, they're playing quite well. 


Q.  Are you expecting Courier to be the type that his pride will enjoy the chance?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Exactly.  He's been in those situations.  Sometimes in Davis Cup it doesn't come down to the best tennis in the world; it comes down to the one who can guts it out slightly a bit more.  That might make the difference.


Q.  You say the locker room word is that Courier will get second singles.  Have you and Tim had any dialogue with Jim?  Todd is not here, so you can't talk to him.  Any talk about Davis Cup?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  We're just concentrating on this week, the Lipton really.  Not anymore, unfortunately.


Q.  What will you do when you get back home?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I'm going to have a few days off, just relax.  I'll go down and get ready probably on the Sunday or Monday, whenever David wants us down there.


Q.  How much frustration do you feel at the moment, your serve, which had been dominating the match, suddenly went when we all thought you were about to win it?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think I've had one match with that in a hundred.  This is my one match to get rid of.  At least it didn't happen in the Davis Cup.  I think if it happened in the Davis Cup, it would be a little bit more disappointing.  Just have to take the positive.  Obviously it's disappointing because I had such control of the match for a set and a half, nearly two sets.  You just have to get back and get ready. 


Q.  Talking about Birmingham and the court, you and Tim had a major input into what we would actually be playing on.  What sort of court did you personally ask for?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Trying to play on the surface of Hannover.  Originally, we were trying to put a GreenSet court like the London event in Battersea.  GreenSet is totally different.  We've practiced on it at Queen's Club.  It didn't bounce.  The court didn't come off properly like it does at the Battersea event.  We decided to just go to the Hannover court, which is a very fair court where the ball kicks up, you can slice it.  It gives you time to make some returns indoors.  I think it will be a very fair surface for us, and hopefully a good one.


Q.  That's hard court on wood?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yes, just painted on the wood.


Q.  Knowing Martin and Courier, as you do, it would appear to aid Todd, as well? 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I think we're just trying to find a surface that's good for us, that will be very fair.  They're obviously good players.  Todd plays well whether it's low bouncing, high bouncing, indoors.  We know we have a tough point there.  Jim being a former No.  1, it's going to be difficult.  We'll find out on the weekend whether it was a good selection or not. 


Q.  But it was the choice of both you and Tim?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yes, and David and everybody. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT