NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 10, 1999
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MIKI SINGH: First question for Greg.  
 

Q.  You seem to know your game pretty well. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I felt like I was really in control of the match, getting first break of serve was key.  I didn't serve particularly well the first three games, but I managed to come up with some good volleys to hold.  I think it was just one of those performances where you're solid through and you don't really strain yourself too much.  I was really pleased with the way I came out today and performed.  
 

Q.  Obviously tomorrow. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  It's a lot of fun actually.  We're going to play, I think it will be like the fourth time on the main Tour we've played.  It's always a big match because he wants to beat me, I want to beat him.  There's only one of us who is going to end up winning.  I guess I know who I hope that will be tomorrow.  It's great because whoever wins gets a chance at Sampras if Sampras gets through.  I think for both of us it's going to be a good match.  
 

Q.  First one out of doors, will that make any difference?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I don't think it will make any difference.  I'm pretty comfortable here.  I like the surface.  I think Tim played pretty well against Arazi yesterday.  It should be a good match.  
 

Q.  What's the key to beating Tim?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I can't give away all my secrets, can I?  
 

Q.  Just a couple of them. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I mean, I've worked my secrets pretty well these last two times.  I think the key is going to be making a lot of returns tomorrow.  Whoever is going to be returning better at the end of the day is probably going to win the match because both of us serve reasonably well and hit our volleys pretty solid.  Just comes down to who's making more returns and who's a little bit more consistent on the day.  
 

Q.  Tim was saying yesterday that with you both so high in the rankings, it's sort of strange you only met three times in the last three years.  There have been opportunities, but at the same time you have avoided each other in the halves of the draw, uncanny. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  We could have met earlier this year in Rotterdam if I would have beaten Kafelnikov.  The way he was playing, I don't think too many people would have beaten him.  I think we're going to play more and more when the years come, because the higher we're ranked, the more matches we're going to win, the more matches we're going to play against each other.  I think it's great for both of us because it raises more interest in British tennis, the public wants to read about it.  I think it's good for the game of tennis.  If we can have that rivalry, that friendly rivalry on the court, it only can benefit us.  I think we get along pretty well now that we're playing doubles in the London event.  I think we both respect our games.  I think it's great the more we can meet and play against each other. 
 

Q.  You talk about rivalry.  Three weeks before the Davis Cup, you're playing against one another, what's going on?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Who knows, maybe we'll make it two weeks in a row at the Lipton as well.  If we're meeting every week being 7 and 10 in the world, it means we're both having good weeks.  That's good news for both of us.  If next week we meet and this week we're meeting, that means we're both playing good tennis.  That's the positive thing on the outcome.  
 

Q.  Do you have any special talents besides tennis?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  That's an interesting question.  I have many special talents.  
 

Q.  Enlighten us. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I just enjoy doing regular things.  I like reading books.  I like playing a little bit of basketball, a little bit of football.  I don't do any magic tricks or anything like Christo van Rensburg did.  I just do the normal things everybody else does.  No super hidden talents besides my serve. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT