ATP Tour World Championship
November 27, 1998
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Must be very happy with that?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I was pleased with my performance today because there was a lot riding
on it for me today, to finish in the Top 10 this year, if I win, to get back to eight or
nine in the world, just to give myself a chance in the Championships to try to play, if
Albert Costa can come up with a miracle match tonight.

Q. Did Ms. Harding arrive?

GREG RUSEDSKI: She's supposed to be arriving any minute.

Q. Were you a bit surprised the way Tim played?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I think we're playing at the World Championships, so both of us
definitely wanted to win the match today. I don't think Tim served as well as he could
have today. I really took advantage of that with the four breaks of serve today. I was
really motivated to win that match because it just meant a lot to me today. I'm sure he
was just as motivated to win it as well.

Q. Do you get a sense when you have an opponent, whatever they try isn't going to work
for them?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I think I was mixing up my game really well today. I think I played at
the level I played when I played Sampras in Paris. I think I didn't serve as well as I did
in Paris. I think I was returning well, hitting my ground shots, managed to sustain the
level I did from Paris indoors. For me, I couldn't ask for much more to do out there. I
wasn't missing too many passings, my unforced errors were down, my breakpoints were four
to five today. Everything was firing on all cylinders. It's always tough when you play
someone from your own country. There's always a little more pressure coming. It's always a
bit more difficult.

Q. Perhaps that was a little bit in your mind when you served for the match the first
time?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, I think Tim played a good game of returning. First point, played a
good point. Missed a forehand by an inch on the net. Hit one of those lobs that landed
right on the baseline. Got it back to deuce. Missed one forehand volley I should have
made. Then match point. He's going to get a break sooner or later, but I managed to have
the double break for insurance, which was definitely the key, and served it out well over
the last game.

Q. Given that the grass court season was clearly ruined for you, that you missed quite
a bit of the American hard court season, how satisfying is it to end in the Top 10?

GREG RUSEDSKI: It's unbelievably satisfying. To get there is one thing, but to stay
there for two years I think really establishes myself as a Top-10 player now. With all the
aggro I had this year with the departure of a coach to the injury and everything, I think
I can't be more than pleased, more than satisfied to come to World Championships with the
best players in the world, to win two matches, be undefeated. You can't ask for more.

Q. I believe the rules governing the alternates has changed this year. It seems much
more difficult than it was last year to get through. Obviously you're not going to jump up
and say that's a wonderful thing. Do you agree in principle that it should be tough for
the alternates to get through into the semis?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I'd like to see the format the ladies have, where 16 players play, have
it a knock-out competition rather than a round-robin event with the top eight. I think it
might be a little bit better having a tournament format. That's what I'd enjoy more rather
than having, per se, the round-robin of three matches. There's more counting on every
match. If you lose, you're out. The champion is the one who doesn't lose anything.

Q. Used to be that way.

GREG RUSEDSKI: It used to be that way. I enjoy that format. I like that format of a
tournament. It gives me a chance this week to play, so I can't complain about that.

Q. Round-robin format allows all sorts of criticism to creep in, whether justified or
not?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Exactly. I'd agree with you, John (laughter).

Q. What now then? Are you going to sit there and cross your fingers for the rest of the
year or what?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I think I'm going to have a meal, get a massage, I don't know, pray I
guess (laughter), hope for the best. I really find it's going to be hard for Albert to
win. You know, Alex isn't going to be coming forward, so it might be an interesting match.
Who knows, anything can happen in tennis.

Q. Will you be able to watch it or bring yourself to come here? 

GREG RUSEDSKI: I'm probably going to watch it on the television, just hope for it. If
it happens, it happens. If not, I'm more than satisfied with the finish to my season. If
by chance I get to play, then I get to play Sampras, which would be fabulous. But if it
doesn't happen, that's life. I mean, I have two matches. It's just great.

Q. Which part of your game do you think you have to work more to make next step?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, I think I just have to get consistency to play at the top level
all the time. Like yesterday, I wasn't consistent enough on certain areas, like my return,
and a few shots from the ground. Sven and I had a chat and really raised our level today
to the standard that I want to play at. It's consistency, improving the returns more,
improving the ground game, becoming more an all-court player where I can win matches and
tournaments on clay. I think those three areas would be the necessary improvement. The way
Sampras played last night, I mean, it was just fabulous tennis. He looked like No. 1 for
the past 25 years easily. Some of the shots he was hitting, I mean, he was very satisfied
with, which is very rare to see. It's great to see him in the sixth year. It's going to be
more interesting to see whether he can keep on going with that streak, because he's a
great player. I mean, you have to give credit to him the way he's handled all the
pressure, the things. He's not had the best year, but he still managed finish No. 1, which
is a tremendous result.

Q. Will there be an extra motivation for the new year with two British players in the
Top 10, but you being slightly behind Tim, rather than you ahead in recent years?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I think I'm not really worried about that anymore. When you play each
other, obviously you want to win. I'm looking at more the standard of trying to get
somewhere I've never been before. I've been to 4 in the world; I'd like to get in that
area where it's 3, 2 or 1. That's really going to be my objective for next year, is to try
to get into those places I've never seen before, to try to win at a Grand Slam level,
which I've never done. I've gotten to the finals, but I've never taken the next step of
winning one. Those are the areas I'm going to focus on next year.

Q. It was asked of Tim what would be the ultimate occasion you and he would meet.

GREG RUSEDSKI: Let me guess what he said. The Wimbledon final (laughter). That must
have been a lucky guess today. 

Q. How did you get that one out?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I don't know.

Q. The actual question I asked was, where would the best tennis between the two of you
be played?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Best tennis? Not on a clay court, that's for sure. Probably at Wimbledon
on the grass, I'd have to say. I think both of us are very good grass court players. I
think it would be an exciting match, good tennis. That's our favorite Grand Slam of them
all.

Q. He said a slow hard court.

GREG RUSEDSKI: I hear they're playing on clay now at the Lipton. Could be on a slow
clay court at Lipton.

Q. Tim wants to meet you in the final of Roland Garros, is that right?

GREG RUSEDSKI: That would be perfect for me. I would be more than happy to get to the
finals there. Doesn't matter, win or lose, just get there.

Q. Next year I think the Davis Cup will be a great challenge for Great Britain. Do you
think you and Tim could become also a great doubles team?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, I think we're going to have to play a few matches in doubles
together if we're going to become a great doubles team. I think that's going to be very
important for us, because unfortunately we don't have the strongest third, fourth and
fifth player. We need someone to really step up and help us who are a strong doubles
combination. We're going to have to play a few doubles matches before that Davis Cup tie
against America. John McEnroe could be playing for them for the doubles, you never know.

Q. Seriously, has David talked to either of you about that?

GREG RUSEDSKI: He hasn't talked to either one of us about that. I put in a few
suggestions, then to Tim about trying to play some doubles some week. I think it would be
very important, especially with the big tie coming up against the States at home. More
practice we can get together, the better we could be, I think.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT