ATP Tour World Championship
November 26, 1998
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Good practicing for a left-hander, having to play a right-hander, a bit confusing?

GREG RUSEDSKI: It was. Because all day I thought I was playing Marcelo. All of a
sudden, Tim up 5-1 or 5-2, they say I'm playing Albert Costa.

Q. What time was it?

GREG RUSEDSKI: 5-1 or 5-2 in the third set for Tim. It was quite a difficult
transition, because all of a sudden your frame of mind changes completely because you're
playing a guy who has never won a match indoors, he's 0 for 14. You just got a totally
different game plan compared to what you're going to play against Rios. You kind of feel
the pressure because it's one of those matches you feel you should really never lose
indoors. So I was a little bit tight in there today, as you probably noticed (laughter).

Q. You were nice to him at the end? He needs to beat Corretja now?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I don't know about that. I think that's going to be pretty difficult.
Alex seems to be hitting the ball really well. I think he played pretty solid his first
two matches against Andre and against Tim today. That's going to be asking a lot. I just
have to go out there against Tim and do my best. If I win, then I go back in the Top 10.
If I lose, then I don't. There's something always to be gained whether you win the match.
If I don't get to the semis, no big deal. It would be nice to try to get to the Top 10 at
the end of the year.

Q. If you do win tomorrow, you have another waiting game. One of those playing in the
night match might get injured.

GREG RUSEDSKI: This is true. I might call up Tanya Harding to come along here or
something this week (laughter).

Q. Is your back still pretty good, Greg?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, my back is absolutely fine. It was just my nerves today a little
bit (laughter). Besides that, you know, everything else seemed fine.

Q. You were clearly nervous if you needed ten set points to win the first set?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I had Love-40 two times, I think I dumped six returns in the bottom of
the net. A little bit of nerves. I have to be happy that I came out. I lost my serve once
in the second set, broke him every other time. Hit some good backhand passes, then just
played reasonably solid to close the match out. For me, there's nothing to lose tomorrow.
It's a much more relaxed situation. I don't think someone is going to come in and replace
Tim tomorrow, so I won't have the same problem.

Q. How do you feel about playing Tim in a match like this?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, it should be a lot of fun. I mean, the best man is going to win
tomorrow. I mean, it could be myself, it could be Tim, whoever plays the better tennis on
the day. We're 1-1 in our career. Last time I played him, I beat him in Vienna 6-4, 6-4. I
think we've both improved a lot as players. It's great for Britain to have two players
playing in the World Championships against each other. It's a no-lose situation for both
of us.

Q. What about the possibility that Costa and Corretja play a friendly match tomorrow
night?

GREG RUSEDSKI: A friendly match?

Q. If Corretja beats Costa, you are out, even if you beat Henman.

GREG RUSEDSKI: Tanya Harding is coming around one o'clock, she's flying in, so you
never know (laughter). I think Albert is going to go out and do his best. What more can
you ask for? I mean, it doesn't make a difference. If Alex wins, fair enough, he deserves
it, he qualified, he's 5 in the world. If he goes through, great for him. If I don't,
that's all right as well. I know I had two matches, I had a lot of fun, then there's next
year.

Q. Are you glad you've been able to have a hit here, having come as a reserve?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yes, it's nice to be able to get in. I was so close, missing out only by
one match this year. It's nice to be able to play two matches this year and finally get my
first win. Maybe when I come back next year, then I can have the experience. It's always
nice when you've won at least a match there to give you confidence. Hopefully, tomorrow I
can continue.

Q. If you win, at least you'd collect some more world ranking points, even if you don't
actually get through.

GREG RUSEDSKI: Exactly. It will throw me into at least to No. 10 in the world. I think
I'll be able to pass Krajicek, who is injured at the moment. The worst I'll finish is 10.
That would be absolutely brilliant for me.

Q. After you got beaten in Stockholm, you were obviously down, saying, "I don't
know if I can go to Hannover as an alternate. I don't know if I really want to do
that."

GREG RUSEDSKI: I don't know if you should have believed me in that stage really.

Q. How long did it take to you snap out of that frame of mind?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Didn't take me long. I was just disappointed at the time. I knew I was
going to be coming anyway. It's just the initial reaction I think everybody has when they
lose. Everybody has disappointment.

Q. You neglected to include the matches of the National Championships. Was it because
you forgot it or because it's not on the Tour?

GREG RUSEDSKI: It's not on the Tour really. It's a different story playing at the
Nationals and playing on the Tour. I think being on the Tour it's totally different
things. It's in the main events and main Tour events. If you want to count them, you can
count them as well. I guess 1-3 then. I won the last one, that's all I have to say
(laughter).

Q. Will getting to the Top 10 be a nice consolation for all this? 

GREG RUSEDSKI: That would be absolutely brilliant. Two years in a row that I finished
in the Top 10. Considering the missing of two to three months with injury, I mean, it's
something special because they have the list of the year's Top-10 players. If you're 11,
you don't get on that list. It would be nice to do that at the end of year and have two
British players in the Top 10.

Q. How long before you actually went to the court? You said it was 5-2. How long before
you went on court did you know you wouldn't be playing Rios, in minutes?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Must have been about seven, eight minutes. It wasn't a lot.

Q. Had you seen Costa around the locker room?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I saw him around. I knew he was in here this week. It's just I expected
to play Rios because he stayed around, he had a hit today, he looked like he was ready to
play. I knew Costa was here just in case. I thought he'd at least give this a go, being
that he had a chance to get to No. 1. If things didn't work out for him today, then he'd
probably pull out. I was very surprised to be playing Albert today.

Q. Ever since you arrived here, you've always been aware there's quite a strong chance
you would play. You didn't actually get to play. What have you been doing to keep yourself
amused in that time? 

GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, I played with a few wooden racquets to see if I could play with
the past great champions. I hit with a few wooden racquets. I went out for some sushi. I
saw you there last night. Just did the normal things everybody else did. I practiced with
Corretja a few times, hit with Moya this morning.

Q. Has it been frustrating waiting for the chance?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, I mean, I have to accept it. Kafelnikov deserved to be in there. I
was just waiting. You play a waiting game. It's not always easy. To get a win is nice.
Hopefully, it can continue tomorrow.

Q. You obviously watched some of Tim's match. How do you think he's playing at the
moment?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I think he's playing some of his best tennis at the moment. I think the
first set against Rios was very impressive. The second set, Rios really didn't give a
match. But Tim really shut the door on him, which was great, won it 6-1. Today against
Corretja, he had to come up with a solid performance because Alex is striking the ball
extremely well. It was a pressure situation because he knows if he wins that match, he's
quallied for the semi already. If he loses, then anything can happen. He handled the
pressure and the two matches extremely well. I think he's playing very good tennis and has
a good chance to maybe make the finals this week.

Q. When you made the Davis Cup debut three and a half years ago, in your wildest dreams
did you think the two of you would be playing each other in the World Championships?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I don't know. Things just sort of happen. It's nice to see both of us
being able to be at the top level. I think it's great for the game in Britain. It's great
for both of us because you always imagine as a player that you'd like to get to the top of
the game, but then it sort of happens and you're kind of there. Some players say they've
always believed that they're going to be at the top of the game. I don't know if it always
realistically works like that. It's a little bit of luck, a little bit of practice and
working hard, a combination of a few things.

Q. How is your relations with Henman? They say you have some problem at the beginning
of the year, but now is okay.

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, everything's fine. What can I say? We get along fine, no problems.
Hopefully we'll play World Team Cup this year. That was the major problem last year.
Besides that, everything's fine. We respect each other on the tennis court. We have that
rivalry, which is very good for both of us because each one of us wants to get ahead of
each other, get to the top of the game in the word, win Wimbledon, do our goals that we
want to do.

Q. Have you been practicing together a lot lately?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah. We practiced last week at Queen's Club, been playing a few
practice sets. Things have been going well. It's great for both of us because we get to
work on each other's game and just to improve all the time.

Q. After you and Henman, there isn't any great player. What's your opinion? The
Federation is working well? There are some problems?

GREG RUSEDSKI: We've always had great junior players. We had Martin Lee who was World
No. 1 in the Juniors. We had Delgado who won the Orange Bowl under 14s. We've never really
had the transition where they've gone to the seniors. Tim has done that transition, played
well in the seniors, even though he didn't play as well in the juniors. He need some
youngsters to come up. Our third player is only 181 in the world. It would be nice if we
had more players in the Top 100 or Top 50 like Sweden has or Spain has 16 players, or
America. Hopefully the LTA and British tennis can get better from the situation that's
happening with myself and Tim, more players to come up.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT