ATP Tour World Championship
November 23, 1998
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. What do you think about getting into the tournament? 
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I missed it by 30 points, which is almost nothing. With the same amount
of points I made this season, I would have qualified for the event last year. It's one of
those things, I'm proud of the season I had. I'm happy that I beat Sampras this year. I'm
really just keeping on working towards my game being better for the next coming season. If
I get in here, it's a bonus, but it's just another week forward, another good practice
week. Last week I worked on a lot of things. I feel better about my game: it gives you
more motivation for next season if you don't get in anyways. 
 
Q. Where are you starting the season?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Starting in Doha, Sydney, then Melbourne. 
 
Q. Have a bit of time off after this?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Not really. Maybe I'll have a few days off next week. After that, just
getting ready for the next coming season. I want to play well. I feel like my game got on
to a roll finally. I'm improving every day. I don't really want to stop the momentum,
really make a surge for '99, stay healthy, get fitter, stronger. I think I can have a real
chance to break even higher than the position I had in '97. 
 
Q. Looking back to Stockholm, was it tiredness?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, I think if I could have won that second set breaker, got off to a
better start. It was a difficult situation because playing against Thomas, you've got a
crowd against you, so you don't want to show too much emotion; you want to keep everything
intact. I had a few double-faults in the first set, which cost me dearly, then I had a few
set points, which if I could have made those, going into the third set, anything could
have happened. 
 
Q. Did you watch the finals?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Didn't watch the finals actually. I heard that Ivanisevic should have
won the first set against Kafelnikov in Moscow. I heard he had an easy overhead which he
just had to put in the court. I mean, things could have gone either which way. I still
have to keep hope that something is going to happen. Right now, with Agassi not being at
the draw, we have to think something might have happened. 
 
Q. Being in with Tim's draw? 
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: That would be interesting. I think the top section with Sampras, Moya,
Kucera and Kafelnikov is a little bit of a harder group, no disrespect to the other
players. There are more indoor players in that group than, say, Rios, Corretja, Agassi. I
mean, Agassi is a great indoor player. Rios has played pretty solid. You'd favor yourself
as a serve and volleyer in that group. But you still have to play good tennis. There's no
such thing as an easy group here because you have the top eight. From an attacking point
of view, you like those players, because you can dictate more, don't have the pressure of
hitting the passing shots all the time. 
 
Q. Who have you been practicing with since you been here?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I just got in Sunday. First day of practice was today. Just hit some
with Sven, my coach. 
 
Q. You didn't hit with the other players?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: No, I haven't, because I got in late last night. 
 
Q. No doubt you'll be in demand?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, it will be an interesting situation. There's no left-handers in
the event. Usually players don't like to hit with left-handers if there's no lefties. 
 
Q. Only Rios? 
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Exactly. I might do a few warm-ups with the people that are playing
against Rios. Who knows, if Tim plays Marcelo the first day, I'll probably be doing the
warm-up. 
 
Q. Did (inaudible) make a decision about Dusseldorf?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I've discussed it so far, I want to play again this year. Hopefully
he'll decide, but he hasn't decided again this year. We'll just have to wait and see.
You'll have to talk to him about that one. 
 
Q. Have you talked to Tony lately?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Not at the moment. 
 
Q. Your coach?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Sven. 
 
Q. Lots of experience?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I think he's done a good job with the players he's worked with. He
worked with Michael Stich, took him to the finals, Arantxa Sanchez, Mary Pierce. I think
he's younger, helps out with the rapport. 
 
Q. Have you trained a little bit lately?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Yes. I trained all last week getting ready for this event, hoping to
have a chance. I'm well-prepared. 
 
Q. (Inaudible)?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I don't know if it's that. I think it's a chance to be world No. 1 for
Marcelo. We just have to see how the matches go. I think I'll at least get one match this
week, if not more. 
 
Q. Two alternates in.
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I think the luck so far has been Krajicek and Rios -- I mean, Krajicek
and Rafter pulling out. Myself, Tim, nor Kafelnikov would be in the event if it hadn't
been for those two players pulling out. If Agassi pulls out, I guess that's third time
lucky. Have to wait and see. 
 
Q. We'll have to wait till Wednesday.
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Exactly. It will be interesting to see how he plays. I think he's going
to go out there and play in his first match. We'll see how it happens. 
 
Q. Davis Cup, playing in Birmingham?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: It's hard to get an arena in London. If you're going to be playing in
Wembley, the nearest hotel would be an hour away. In Birmingham, it's a nice city, they
have the exhibition center there, 10,000-seat stadium. 
 
Q. It's not Royal Albert Hall?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: It's hard to get that as well. I think it's fully booked out. The courts
will be right beside the hotel. If we can sell 10,000 seats every day, it will be
brilliant. 
 
Q. The Dutch are playing the same time in France. No doubles with Eltingh/Haarhuis.
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Maybe he'll come back. 
 
Q. Do you have some contribution for kids or another illness people have?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Yes, I do charity works. I keep most of them private. I did a thing for
children with cancer this weekend. 
 
Q. In Britain?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Yes. I had all sorts of charity work. I have an exhibition match for the
bomb in Ireland on Monday. I also do all sorts of private stuff, as well. 
 
Q. What do you think about the draw?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: It's definitely a harder section. That's no disrespect to the other
players. They're more sort of an outdoor player than Rios, Agassi and Corretja. But also
Tim is in that group. I think he's in a good group, which should be interesting. 
 
Q. If anybody was to pull out, which one would you want to go? Whose shoes would you
like to step into?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Right now Agassi supposedly has a back injury. That would be the group
I'd probably get into. We'll have to wait and see if he's healthy and fit. We'll know more
or Wednesday. If he's not, I guess I slot in. I think I have a chance of playing a match
or two.  
 
Q. As a left-hander, that's not too bad news for you?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: No, it isn't bad news, especially being in that group. Being a serve and
volleyer, attacking player, the courts are playing quite quick. For me it would be good
news. 
 
Q. What is it like having to play this waiting game?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I just do it like any other week. Last week I had a normal training
week. This week I'm going to work on my game some more. I'm going to take advantage of the
situation, just do my normal practicing. If they call me up for a match, I'll be more than
excited and ready to play. 
 
Q. Will you be sitting by every match and waiting?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Not at all. I'll be watching a few of the matches. Some of them I won't.
Really doing my normal scheduling. If somebody gets injured during a match, you don't go
on right away anyway. We'll wait and see. 
 
Q. What do you think of the venue? Bit of a strange place?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: It is definitely an interesting place. It has the exhibition hall here.
Hannover I guess is more of an industrial city than most. Before it was New York and
Frankfurt, exciting. As long as the public come out to support it, there's good people
here, that's fine with me.  
 
Q. Do you think you still have a good chance to play?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I think I'm going to have a chance to play one match. If someone gets
down two nil in their group, they might let me play one match. With Agassi supposedly hurt
with his back, we'll have to wait and see what happens Wednesday, if he goes out and plays
and sees how he reacts to the match situation. Only time will tell. 
 
Q. You were disappointed, I suppose. How do you prepare for a tournament like this
tournament?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I started practice already last week on Monday. I got back to work right
away. I'm preparing like any other tournament, except this is more special. It's only
eight players that get to play. It gives me great advantage in the season coming up. For
me, I did my preparations properly, and I'm hoping play. With a little bit of luck, I'll
get a chance to play and get a chance to boost my ranking. 
 
Q. Everybody is saying that this is the nicest way to play tennis because everything is
well-organized. Do you agree with that?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, I think the event is very well-organized; I think the people do a
professional job. It's a nice venue. 
 
Q. Do you think it's a good thing for tennis that this could move from here? 
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I think it's definitely exciting. I think it should be brought into
places like New York or maybe London, even South America. I think the more we can move it
in different markets, maybe on different surfaces so it doesn't always favor the fast,
indoor court players. I think it's a good idea to have it moved. 
 
Q. Two British guys here. How do you explain this explosion?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I think we're doing well. The problem is, there's myself and Tim, and
after that there's not much else. I think we need to get more players in. If you look at
Sweden or America, they have many more players in the Top 100 and Top 50 in the world.
That's what we need in Britain. Hopefully with mine and Tim's success, that can happen. 
 
Q. About Sampras, he's here for big goals. Do you have a prediction for that? Do you
think he will do it?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I think he's got a tough group with Kafelnikov in there, Kucera who beat
him at the Australian Open and Moya who beat him here last year. If he gets out of his
group and gets to the semifinal stage, I definitely have to put my money on Sampras. 
 
Q. What would you say six years in a row as No. 1?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: It's an unbelievable feat. . I can't comprehend that. I haven't been No.
1 for a day. I don't know what that feels like. It's amazing, breaking all the records. I
think the only thing he's missed is the French Open title. That would make him
unbelievable even more. I think it would be a fantastic thing for him to accomplish. 
 
Q. The Davis Cup final, who is going to win between Italy and Sweden? They play in
Milan on clay.
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I think Italy is actually going to win this year because of the fact of
Larsson being out, Enqvist being out. If Gaudenzi's shoulder is fine, is a hundred percent
healthy, the Italian support with the crowd, anything can happen. Sanguinetti played
fantastic against the United States. The team is going to be interesting. It's going to be
Johansson, Bjorkman. 
 
Q. Kulti in doubles, and in singles either Gustafsson for sure and either Norman or
Jonas.
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Originally when I saw the draw with Larsson being out, that's a blow to
Sweden. But if Italy can get off to a good start, I think they can pull it off. It's going
to be a 3-2 result. How is that? Good prediction? 
 
Q. Very good. I hope you're right.
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: All right.  
 
Q. Any thoughts on whether we've passed into the individual age of tennis?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Depends on which country you're from. In America, popularity of tennis
is down tremendously, because the characters of the McEnroes and Connors are not there. It
doesn't take the public's imagination as much. There's so many more sports. If you look at
the game in Europe, in England where we're playing the Davis Cup, we have a 10,000 seat
stadium in Birmingham and it's definitely going to sell out when we play the United
States. In England, they're sold out for nearly every match. 
 
Q. Is it cultural?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I just think the game in America, unfortunately, has lost public
interest. They have to do something to bring it back, either with television, advertising
or something. That's one market where it's not thriving as it used to be. 
 
Q. If John McEnroe became the Davis Cup captain?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: That would definitely help it. I think it would be great if McEnroe
would, because he could get Andre to play and maybe even Pete. It would just get more
people involved, I think, which would be a great thing. You need personalities, you need
people that are going to do the right things to sell the game. If it needs getting McEnroe
as captain, then why not do it? 
 
Q. Do you think you will play on Wednesday?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: We'll wait and see. 
 
Q. Did you hear how serious the injury is?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I have no idea. We'll just have to wait and see. With a little bit of
luck, who knows. 
 
Q. How necessary do you think it is to change the rules, the tournament schedule, maybe
if it's too much? What is necessary to make it more attractive?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: From a player point of view, I think they have to do the highlights of
the shows much better. If you're doing the ATP program, I don't find it as exciting as it
should be. They should have a highlight like they do for the basketball shows, where they
show the ten best plays of the week. They should do things where they market two players
every week, like on the golf show. If you ever watch the golf show, you always see two
brand-new players and faces so people know more players. In golf, people can name 50
players. In tennis, you walk on the street, people can name three. They've got to know the
faces. There's so much depth in the men's game right now that anybody can beat anybody on
a given day. I think the television also has to do things where, you know, they rewind,
slow motion plays that are really good, exciting points, to get people involved. Also the
press needs to get more involved to press things, publicizing the ATP Tour. I think it's a
combination of the way the media has handled it, to television, to also players giving
more time to the game. I think there's a lot that can be done. I don't think it's
necessary to change like the coaching rule for two minutes in between, which I thought was
absurd. You're either going to put the coach in there for full-time or no time. It's an
individualistic sport. For me, personally, I don't think a coach should really be allowed. 
 
Q. You don't think they should be allowed?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: No. Then the let cord rule, what are you going have to do? You have to
legalize the net tension. If you're playing doubles - imagine if you're playing doubles -
you hit a let that bounces up, it just sits up like a pancake, the guy is going to smash
the back of the guy's head with the return if the let starts to go into play? I don't
think that rule should exist. I don't think the game needs the rules changed necessarily.
I think it just needs to be more fan friendly, needs to do more things to promote itself
better and to be more creative. If we can do that, that would be great. Also more just
getting involved in more things too. 
 
Q. Do you support as well to limit the amount of tournaments? One highlight a month?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: It's different. Formula 1 is 22 cars. Tennis is 5,000 to 10,000 people.
You kind of have an argument here if you eliminate the tournaments, you're eliminating
freedom of choice. You've got to find a way where you don't have too much tennis, but
maybe you can have the event, but don't put as many events on the television. You put more
of the bigger events on the television, like you say the Super 9's, for example, the Grand
Slams, Hannover, the special events, when people are watching tennis, they make the best
of the best, you make everything count. I think the problem the general public has is they
don't understand how a player can lose first round, yet his rating can go up a place or
two that week. If you counted everything, then it would make people understand it more.
They don't necessarily have to understand the ranking system. In golf, they don't
understand the ranking system, but they accept it. They accept every time you play, it
goes into the system. In tennis, they don't realize sometimes it just gets thrown out the
window. 
 
Q. Do you think the tennis players themselves are involved in a way they have to be? Is
it more a decision of media, people that give the money?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I think it's a combination of all areas. I think it's important to have
somebody in charge who can do more. Everybody who has been through the councils, I think
everybody involved in the councils try to do their best. Sometimes at the end of the day,
there are things that have to be done. 
 
Q. Do you feel that the players can tell their opinion, what they think?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: They should be able to sit down with Mark Miles. Now they have mandatory
player meetings where the players have to go to the meetings. They have to voice their
opinions and know more about the game. I think it's a combination of everybody working
together. I think the players have to give more, and it also has to be a combination of
doing it properly, getting the viewership up and the personalities up. 
 
Q. Is there an entire opinion of everybody?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I think there's discussion, but also there's the things with tennis
players, they all to try to get together and unite. It's a very individualistic sport and
that could be one of the problems. It's looking for the future of the game, for the better
thing of it. That's why like, for example, for me what would be great, a person like Jacco
Eltingh who went for the council. He's been No. 1 in the world in doubles, been Top 20 in
singles, he knows the game very, very well. Why isn't a person like him who wants to go
for the council on it? It doesn't make sense to me. He's retired. He doesn't have any
other interests in the game. He's not coaching someone. He's totally independent, which I
think is very important, yet he has the respect of both singles and doubles players, which
is a key. 
 
Q. They should also ease the system of the ranking?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I think they've got to make a system where everything counts. That's the
key, making sure everything counts. Say I go to Paris, then I play Basel, I lose first
round in Basel, my ranking should drop because I lost first round. Then the public will
understand. 
 
Q. No matter if you defend or lose points from last year?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah. You deserve to have your points that you made the last year, but
just make -- they used to have the average system. The problem with the average system was
when you had the average, people wouldn't play enough, so tournaments didn't have enough
players. This one you have players sometimes playing too much. I guess they've got to find
something in the middle. They have to find a way to make things count. 
 
Q. I heard you speaking French. How many languages do you speak?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I speak a few. I can't give away all my secrets in one day. 
 
Q. Chinese?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: No. French, English, Spanish. 
 
Q. Where did you learn it?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Just at school. You learn a few different languages when you're around
on the road. It doesn't hurt. The more you know, the better you're off. No German, I'm
sorry. 
 
Q. What do you like to do when you don't play tennis, when you really want to relax?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: When I'm in London, I like to go to the football matches. I enjoy going
to the theater, so I go to the National with my girlfriend to watch performances. I enjoy
taking holidays, going to the Caribbean. I think I do normal things. I like going to good
restaurants, going for a drink with friends, a night out. 
 
Q. What about golf?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I'm useless at golf. I started taking it up, but I'm terrible. I need
more practice. I can't put that in as a hobby yet.  
 
Q. Is it disappointing for you to be here as a substitute player?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I think considering the season I had, I had three months where I was
injured, I've got to look that I'm very fortunate that I'm here because Krajicek and
Rafter pulled out. I still have to think I have a chance of getting in with what happened
to Andre today. Maybe I'll get to play a match or two. If I don't, I just use it as a
constructive practice week and hope for the best. 
 
Q. Is that motivation that you still have a chance to play?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah. I mean, I've got to look at it that I have a chance maybe to play.
If I play, then that would be great. If I don't, I don't. 
 
Q. (Inaudible)?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I'm eligible to play any minute anybody pulls out. 
 
Q. Is it right up until the Wednesday game?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: It could be Andre or someone else, depending on what the score and the
draw is. If someone is down two matches, not feeling particularly well, they might pull
out as well. Anything can happen. We'll just have to wait and see. 
 
Q. Do you hope to play? 
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: You don't wish anything bad on anybody. An injury is a terrible thing to
happen. It's a reality in sports today. Everybody gets injured. You've just got to take
advantage of situations. I'm well prepared. If something would happen, I'd try to go out
there and do the best I possibly can. If I don't get to, that's no big deal either. I
shouldn't really have been here because the top eight would have been Krajicek, the last,
man and Henman would have been the alternate, then Kafelnikov after him, then myself. So
realistically, none of us three actually should have been in the event. I still have a
chance to get in. I need a little more luck. If it happens, it happens. If it doesn't, it
doesn't. 
 
Q. Imagine something like that happens to you, being injured, I'm sure you have been
injured.
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I've had enough this year (laughter). 
 
Q. Do you have any backup plans for that day?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Most of us, if you're smart, you have a good insurance policy which you
take care of yourself in case you get a career-threatening injury. You have other things
you'd like to go into, whether it's still being involved in coaching tennis, into
journalism, television presenting, all sorts of different areas. It's just a personal
decision. Plus I've been fortunate to be involved with some good companies. I'm sure in
the future, I can do some work for them, as well. 
 
Q. Is that your interest or are you thinking in terms of security, financial security?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: No. I think it would be interesting. I have a clothing deal with Austin
Reed, for example. They have suits, casual wear. That's a bit in the fashion business,
which is interesting. 
 
Q. Designing something?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Just designing, seeing what the clothes look. Maybe not designing it.
Just being involved in overlooking. That would be exciting. The other thing is I have a
deal with Jaguar cars. They're not bad little cars to run around the test tracks. It
wouldn't be too tough a job for anybody, I don't think (laughter). I'm very fortunate that
I have good companies behind me. Television presenting is another thing which wouldn't be
bad in the future, having your own chat show, something like that. I think it's ambitions
that are outside of tennis that correlate because the public gets to know you. At the end
of the day, you have to prove yourself in those domains. It's always nice to have those
interests. 
 
Q. Is it a dream come true for you, your whole career?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I've been very fortunate. To make it at the top of sports is a little
bit of luck, a little bit of talent. I mean, there are people like your parents, people
that sponsor you that give you all the opportunities. Without them behind you, you
wouldn't be able to achieve this. It's a combination of luck and working the hard hours as
well. 
 
Q. How many hours do you work?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I've worked a few since I was six. I think I've done a few hours in my
time. 
 
Q. Like on a daily basis?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I've played seriously now for about 17, 18 years. I think it's paid off.
It just depends. You have to know how many hours to play, when not to play, have good
coaches and people around you. 
 
Q. Do you dream of tennis?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Do I dream of tennis? I enjoy the game of tennis. I can sleep well at
night. That's all right. I enjoy watching it. I like watching tennis. This week I'll get
to see some great tennis, no matter what happens, whether I'm playing or not. I enjoy the
game. I'm lucky in that respect. 
 
Q. You have a lot of time to go out? 
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: No, no. I get to go out for a night's dinner, I get to have a drink. I
also have the aspiration of playing. I'm not going to be enjoying myself too much this
week because I've got to look at it in the respect that I still want to play. If the
opportunity arises that I get to play, I want to take the best opportunity out of it. If
things happen, I want to be prepared. If they don't, so be it. At least I can say I was
prepared, I gave it my best. 
 
Q. Any restaurants you do remember from the last visit in Hannover?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I've been to a few of the shops in Hannover. I haven't been to too many
restaurants. Last year I ate a lot at the hotel because I was playing late matches, I
arrived late. Hopefully this year I'll go out to a few more. 
 
Q. I suppose it's fingers crossed time?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: You don't wish injury on anybody. I mean, injury can happen to anybody.
I've just got to be prepared in case the situatiion arises that I get to play. You don't
wish Andre to be injured, but I've had a lot of injuries in my time. If it so happens,
I've just got to be prepared and do my best. Last week I practiced like I would a normal
week leading up to an event.  
 
Q. Queen's?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Yes, I practiced at Queen's starting on Monday already last week.
Hopefully just be prepared to play if things happen and things go right for me. 
 
Q. How down were you when Kafelnikov beat Goran?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I wasn't too down. I expected it, after I lost to Johansson. I had a
very good chance. If I could have taken the second set, I think I probably would have won
in three. But those things didn't happen. I heard Ivanisevic - I didn't watch the match,
didn't see it that day - I heard he missed than easy overhead to go up a set. If
Ivanisevic would have made that one shot, might have been a totally different story. But I
still have a chance. I've got to look at it this way. I missed two months of the season. I
still finish at worst 11 in the world. Also I would never have had a chance of being in
here if Rafter and Krajicek hadn't pulled out. I mean, myself, Tim or Kafelnikov wouldn't
have been in the event. Tim would have been in my position right now if it wasn't for
those two players pulling out. I've got to consider myself lucky to be here, for one,
maybe even luckier if I get a match. 
 
Q. It might also be payback time, you got hurt here last year.
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I'm sure I'm going to get at least one match this week. I think I'll
definitely get one match. If I can get two, that would be magical. 
 
Q. And there's a lot of points at stake?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: There's a lot of points. It gives you a huge advantage, getting 160 to
as many as 700 points. Only eight players are allowed to get those points all year. I
think the ruling should be that it should count to your end of year, but it should also
fall off in the beginning of next year. When you think of it, everybody is supposed to
start on level footing. They're not really starting on level footing if you made Hannover.
If you look at it the other way, the top guys deserve their advantage. You have to take
the view one way or the other. It's a hard thing to decipher. 
 
Q. What was your mind set like when you arrived here?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I arrived last night. I arrived here practicing, hoping to get a match.
Any which way, I get to watch great tennis live whether I play or whether I don't. It's
nice. I enjoy the game of tennis. If I didn't enjoy the game of tennis, it might be a
little bit of a struggle.  
 
Q. Did you see Andre get hurt?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: No, I didn't see it. I just heard about it. I spoke to Alex about it. I
didn't think it was anything too serious. We're going to have to wait and see. I'm sure
he'll go out for his first round match. We'll have to see what happens in his first round. 
 
Q. He has a history of this. Two years ago he didn't come in here, had a stomach upset.
I don't think he likes the scenario too much.
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: What can I say? 
 
Q. People say that Marcelo's behavior out of the court are changing. Do you think that?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I have no problem with Marcelo. I think he's a great tennis player. I
think it's fine. I don't have any problems with the way he behaves or anything like that.
Everybody for their own. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT