EUROCARD OPEN
October 30, 1998
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What was that all about?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I just ran out of gas today, I think. I just didn't have anymore energy
left. I have been battling my cold all week and my flu, first two matches just took
everything out of me and today I just -- I couldn't get going in any respect. I tried to
get myself going, but I didn't have any movement whatsoever on the court. I was seeing the
ball pretty well. I knew where it was going, but I just couldn't get there. It is pretty
tough to play tennis against a person who takes the ball early when you are not being able
to move so well.

Q. Were you a bit concerned about the lighting earlier in the day out there?

GREG RUSEDSKI: No, it didn't bother me at all. No problem whatsoever with the lighting.
I played on it yesterday, there was no problem whatsoever. When I played yesterday I was
surprised by the darkness, but it is actually not that dark when you get out there. The
lighting is absolutely perfect, no problems whatsoever.

Q. In hindsight, letting that second 5-2 lead against Jason slip away cost you tonight?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, I think it definitely played a part in today's match. I mean, I
could have been easily out in the first round, but I have to take heart in that I reached
the quarter finals this week, but, you know, I just didn't have it today. It was just too
much with everything that went wrong this week. I got a good look at Rafter; had a good
win there. Won a match against Stoltenberg which I could have easily thrown away and lost.
Today is just one of those days where you just don't have anything there. There is no more
-- nothing left in the tank, no more petro.

Q. Did you know that before you went out there or did you --

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, I was feeling pretty rough today and I wasn't feeling great. But I
decided to give it a chance. I didn't do like the other two and walk off the court. So at
least I don't know, maybe I shouldn't have played, but at least I gave it a go and tried
to play out there today. But Jonas played a good match and he played sharp, but I just
didn't give him enough of a battle because I just wasn't allowed to because I couldn't
physically do it today. Hopefully a day or two off and get ready for Paris and play some
good tennis.

Q. Will you go home or straight to Paris?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I will just go to Paris. I am going to sleep in for a day and not going
to hit any tennis balls. What can you say? It is just one of those days. It should be
interesting, though, because I mean, this week Sampras will probably take back control of
the race to Hannover, I think. If he gets by Krajicek, I don't really see him having much
problems in the finals. I think that is going to be a telling match.

Q. Have you seen much of Krajicek lately? He is playing well.

GREG RUSEDSKI: He is playing well, but he got a little suspect at 4-3, I think, or 4-1,
I think his knee started to act up on him a little bit. He didn't move as well. He played
a good tiebreaker. He has looked very solid all-around. Hits his returns sharp, serving
well, and he beat Sampras here last year 4 and 4 so I think he is playing good tennis.

Q. He went home after the (inaudible) US Open with his knee for all intents and
purposes packed up, he still comes back --

GREG RUSEDSKI: I wish I could play like that with a packed up knee.

Q. Exactly. Makes you wonder how packed up he is really.

GREG RUSEDSKI: Only one who knows best is Richard himself. I am not going to get
involved in that one, too dangerous.

Q. How do you think Tim is set now? You qualified last year and you sort of kept us
going right up to the wire. Do you think Tim is safe?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, I think Tim is in. He would have to have an absolute disaster, I
think, to not get in or for Krajicek would have to win, I think this week and then next
week have a semi or something like that. So I think he is pretty safe. If he makes the
quarters or semis next week he is definitely in. Plus he has Stockholm, Richard isn't
playing Stockholm nor is a few of the other players, so I think he is 99.9% in, I'd say
unless disaster strikes, but I don't see it happening. All I have to do now is win the
next two weeks to get to 9th place.

Q. See you in Paris. 

GREG RUSEDSKI: Thank you.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT