EUROCARD OPEN
October 29, 1998
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Great news for you tonight?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I was really pleased because Swen and I after my match yesterday, we sat
down and had a chat about what happened yesterday and I think I handled the situations
better today whenever there was any controversy or any problems I think I really handled
it better. I took my time and I didn't let situations bother me and I think that was
definitely the key to the match and I thought I returned particularly well today which was
very important against Patrick.

Q. You moved pretty well?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, I was pleased. I mixed up my serve today. I hit my passing shots
well. I kept him off balance. I didn't worry about it even though I was up two breaks and
he was coming back and getting some momentum and I managed to keep everything intact. So
my game is coming together nicely and the mental side is getting stronger as well, which
is a definite plus for me.

Q. A sign of that when you were Love-40 down, as you were about three or four times
second set and third, and battled back almost every time; in fact, once you won every
single point to win the game?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Very positive, even the game I got broken. I think the forehand volley I
hit was on the line, but I didn't let it bother me like I would have yesterday, probably.
So, I think just taking my time and playing my game more professionally was definitely the
key and just not worrying about situations and not things I can't control and just going
out there and doing the job and playing tennis properly. And, if I am going to win, I am
going to win playing my game. If I am going to lose, it is not going to be because of the
mental side or getting upset. It is going to be because the other players played good
tennis.

Q. What did Swen tell you?

GREG RUSEDSKI: It was just more taking my time and just reacting out there, and not
letting situations get you uptight, and just to be more professional out there.

Q. How long had you been feeling this, getting uptight a little bit just this week?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, I think it is just a part of your game when you really want to do
really well, you put too much pressure on yourself, and your expectations are high and you
want to do better than you can. Sometimes when you do that, you go the opposite way. So
fortunately for me it has turned out all right this week so far.

Q. Apart from that, from the way you played today, would it be the fact that the
ability you had today to change the pace of your backhand returns, in particular, was that
one of the --

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, worked on my return of serve. I think both sides, forehand and
backhand, I can block and come out for the returns as well. So it gives a good variety out
there which is nice, which I didn't have before. And I think we have put in a lot of hard
work, especially during the time coming back from my injury really worked on that area
specifically, and starting to pay off and show dividends.

Q. That shot won a lot of key points tonight?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, I think by coming over the ball and mixing up with the chip and
coming over the backhand, this way they can't play to a certain rhythm because before I
used to block and just always chip, so that way they just come in tight and play the
volley. Now they have to anticipate what is going to happen. I mean, you have to make your
game more complete. If you watch Sampras he can do everything and that is why he is No. 1.

Q. Getting back to when you -- what you said about taking your time more on the point,
there was one situation where it appeared to us that Patrick thought you were taking a bit
too much time over -- you went to get a stringaling?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I went to get a stringalings. The problem was the ball girl lost my
stringalings. Couldn't find it anyway. She put it in one of those flower bins, I guess,
and it was gone. I didn't end up changing my racket or anything, and I just had to go to
my bag to point afterwards to get some.

Q. We couldn't hear what you said. He said something like take your time or --

GREG RUSEDSKI: I just said: The girl lost my stringalings, so I am sure that was about
it.

Q. Previous matches like the US Open Final 1997 still a factor that you face each
other?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, I think I want to beat him every time. For me that was probably my
biggest tennis occasion in my life. To lose that was extremely disappointing. It was a
great result to get to the finals, but nobody really remembers that at the end of the day
who made the Finals. They only remember who wins. For me I would trade every win I had to
date right now against him just for that one win.

Q. Pete wasn't waiting there to say: Well done when you came off tonight. Certainly
helped him on his quest to stay as No. 1?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I think it is tough. I mean, I have played him two weeks, I have beaten
him twice. It is tough because really he has got a good chance at No. 1. I think he is
playing -- Paris is his last event before the World Championships. I think he wanted a
good week here and he felt he had a good chance.

Q. He is a different player indoors than outdoors?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, I think the courts in the summer really suit him with the faster
balls and the Open is the quickest surface by far and the balls really bounce up higher. I
mean, this week bounces up probably the highest of indoors that we have all year. So, for
me, it was very satisfying to be able to win today.

Q. How is the cold? Are you still taking medication?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, it is better. It is fine. I can hear today, so I won't have any
problems with the let serve, foot faults, or whatever happens to me.

Q. Because this court was more likely to give him a little bit of help than Vienna,
does this make it a better win for you?

GREG RUSEDSKI: It does make it a much better win for me. Look at his result here last
here, he was in the semi last year losing to Korda. The court surface is different
obviously, but the balls definitely pick up higher and go higher than they do the last few
weeks, definitely it is.

Q. This is obviously going to lift your ranking. Are you sort of in that stage where
you just are seeing how it goes or do you have --

GREG RUSEDSKI: I think I am just seeing how it goes. If I play well, then that will
take care of itself. My main goal right now is to try to get back into the Top-10. With
Krajicek playing well at the moment, and if Tim plays well in Paris or Stockholm, I mean,
and Kucera, it is going to be pretty secure for those players. But if I can try to somehow
knock on the Top-10, get to 10 at the end of the year, I think I will be extremely
pleased.

Q. What about Bjorkman?

GREG RUSEDSKI: It is going to be a difficult match. I can't remember the last time we
played. I think he has won the first few, but I won the one at the Open which was quite
nice. But it is a new day. He has got a new coach. He seems to be playing well. He has had
a good win against Johansson today. I thought Johansson looked in control for the first
set, and he must be playing some good tennis. He has beaten two good players in three sets
like myself, we will just have to find out tomorrow.

Q. He has been commentating on your match, on Eurosport as well?

GREG RUSEDSKI: That is good, at least he is staying up late. So that is all right.

Q. Do you feel you are now playing as well as you were?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I think my tennis is better. But it is just getting that mental edge
back. I think tonight was a very good step forward towards that. I think my game has
definitely improved. It is just getting that mental stability stronger day-in/day-out.
Today was definitely another step forward. So tennis-wise technically, I feel stronger.
And the other side, I have to keep on getting better.

Q. How is Swen good on the mental side?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, I think we have a good relationship. I think we sit down and talk,
and after the match yesterday he gave me his complete thoughts even though I sometimes
don't want to hear them, but that is what you need someone to do for you. He does it in a
very professional way. So I think it has been working very well, and he is a nice person
off the court and I can go socialize with him as well. So it works out very nice. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT