US OPEN
September 5, 1998
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







GREG RUSEDSKI: Oh, I'm all right actually. Not too bad. I didn't play the best of
matches tonight. I mean, Jan played well. But unfortunately for me, I don't know what my
service percentage was. I don't even want to see it, to be honest with you. I put myself
in a lot of difficulty today, by not serving well. Jan is a good player. He took a lot of
advantage of it.

Q. Neither of you served particularly well, the wind gusting.

GREG RUSEDSKI: I mean, it was fine I think when it got darker, there wasn't as much
wind. I think he picked up his serve and I didn't pick mine up. The start of the match, I
didn't serve too well, the middle it got better, the end he was just all over me really. A
little bit disappointing, but you can't do much about it, unfortunately. 

Q. Did you kind of find out it's important to try to conserve energy in these Grand
Slams, three five-set matches in a row?

GREG RUSEDSKI: You can't do much about that. I mean, that's just the way the matches
go. I had a difficult draw this year. I had two very good players in the first two rounds,
and a good player in the third round. You just try to find a way to win those sort of
matches. Even tonight I had a chance early in the fourth set. I had a few opportunities to
get back on serve and I didn't take them.

Q. He managed to do it?

GREG RUSEDSKI: So good on him.

Q. How much did the foot faults, particularly the one in the fourth set, how much did
that affect you?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, it was a tough call, but these things happen. You have to deal
with them and be able to - how would you describe it - just get over them and move on. I
mean, I don't think I would put myself in such difficulties if I would have had a higher
percentage of first serves today.

Q. You did appear to be getting a bit angry. Was that just frustration, fatigue,
everything?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, I think it was just a little bit of frustration, just wanting to
try to do my best, trying to win there. I had a few things that didn't go my way today,
but that's the way it happens sometimes. But you can't do much about it. It just happens
like that.

Q. What was the petrol tank reading at the end? It did appear to be pretty low.

GREG RUSEDSKI: I don't think the tank has too much left in it at the moment
unfortunately. It's always tough when you have two five-set matches, but I still had a
chance to win the match. I think if I could have raised my level and taken a few
breakpoints, I might have been off in four sets. But instead I've lost in five today.

Q. You came in here, Greg, obviously you did well in the two tournaments you played
before coming here. You obviously knew it was going to be tough.

GREG RUSEDSKI: I knew it was going to be difficult. But I'm disappointed at the moment
because I thought I had a chance to continue. I felt I could have played better. But, you
know, it's always disappointing when you lose in a Grand Slam, especially having the Grand
Slam season I have. I haven't had a very good Grand Slam season, in my opinion. Australia
third round, French first round, missed Wimbledon basically, and then third round here. So
for me that's a very disappointing Grand Slam season. But the only thing is next year I
can only get better after those results.

Q. How would you sum up this summer, just the whole experience?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Let me see. Well, I've been on holiday for two months. That was
basically my summer, just being injured for two months. And then trying to get myself into
form for The Open in time. I just didn't do it. So, it's been a disappointing summer. But
now I just have to make up for the indoor season, get ready for next season, the
Australian Open and the other Grand Slams.

Q. Would you prepare any differently for the Slams next year?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, I wouldn't get injured. That would probably be my key thing. I
think the injury was what really hurt me. I mean, the French, I'm not expecting to do
fantastically well. I don't think a lot of serve and volleyers, especially the way the
courts played this year, they changed them again with the balls. So it favored more the
baseline sort of player of the -- but Australia, Wimbledon, and the US Open, I'd like to
do a lot better than I did this year.

Q. You're going to drop out of the Top 10 now. Are you philosophical about that?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, it's disappointing. I knew if I wouldn't have missed two months, I
would still be easily in the Top 10. I missed a big part of my grass-court season. If I
had a good result here, I still would have been in the Top 10. Now it's just a fight at
the end of the year to finish the year in the Top 10. But you can't control these things.
You have no control in that respect.

Q. You mean, injury?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, exactly. You have no control. I had control when I came back to
play in the matches. I just didn't take advantage the last two weeks, and this week as
well.

Q. What is the next tournament you play, Switzerland?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yes.

Q. What did you like from Switzerland?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I always enjoy myself in Basel. I like playing in Switzerland. I'm
hoping I can do well there again and enjoy myself in the city.

Q. Bournemouth is a definite no?

GREG RUSEDSKI: No, I'm not going to be playing Bournemouth this year. I'm going to have
a week off. I have some commitments I had made before about three months ago, so I'm
sticking to those.

Q. What will you do on your birthday now?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, I don't think it's going to be the most happy birthday, shall we
say. I don't have a clue what I'm going to do tomorrow. At the moment I'm just really
disappointed.

Q. You going home tomorrow?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I don't have a clue yet. I haven't even thought about it, to be honest.
I'm -- I can't say it any more, I'm just disappointed with the way today went. I had a
chance, but I didn't do it. What can you say really?

Q. Obviously there is a lot of disappointment, having lost a match. But say four weeks
ago, you made a semi, quarter, then third round here. Do you think you might wake up on
your birthday feeling a little bit happy about how it's gone?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I mean, it's all right. But I'd rather be winning tournaments and doing
well here at The Open like I did last year. I just don't like to be, how would you
describe it, mediocre. Those results with where my ranking is, they were okay results, but
I'd rather have the winning results. I expect a lot out of myself. For me, to win two
matches, is not like winning a Slam here or getting to the finals. There's a big
difference between those two things.

Q. When you think about this week, you never played back-to-back five-setters, saving
match points along the way. Now you've had a third consecutive match like that. You saved
six match points in all. I mean, really whatever else, you must consider that you
certainly didn't go out like a --

GREG RUSEDSKI: I don't think I went out with lack of effort. I think I just didn't
raise my game in areas where I needed to. The serve today, just areas where I can usually
raise my game to that level. That's something I have to be able to do to get back where I
want to be, back in the Top 10.

Q. I think there was one changeover where you didn't sit down. Was that because you
were cramping?

GREG RUSEDSKI: No. I was just feeling a little bit sore, so I decided to keep myself
going really.

Q. It looked in the fifth set as though you were really pretty tired. Were you actually
sort of on the verge of almost seizing up?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I would have been able to continue. There would have been no problem. I
wasn't as quick, shall we say. I didn't look very nimble out there (laughter).

Q. You weren't cramping or anything like that?

GREG RUSEDSKI: No. It was just stiffness and fatigue. Just the two previous matches.
The way Jan plays, he plays a very dynamic and quick game. If you're not being able to
quick off push enough, you're going to be in a lot of trouble. Credit to him today.

Q. How did you feel when you went onto the court? Could you still feel the two matches
in your legs?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I felt I did all right. I didn't have a great start. I got down a break.
I managed win the first 6-4. I played a bad game to lose my serve in the opening of the
second set. In the third, I got a little bit back in the momentum. I just couldn't do it
today. It was just needing to do that little extra something that I needed.

Q. But was that a result of two very strenuous matches?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, it doesn't help having the strenuous matches, but I'm not going to
make any excuses.

Q. You're an optimistic person. How difficult have these last couple months been,
trying to get yourself back and fit and playing again?

GREG RUSEDSKI: It's been difficult, but I've had goals in mind. I wanted to come back
here and defend at least getting back to the finals here at the US Open or better. That
was my goal. So now I have to find a new goal to move forward with. I just have to stay
positive. Tomorrow I'll wake up, I'm going to 25, getting a little bit older, maybe I'll
get wiser and figure out a way to win these matches.

Q. You and Tim have both spoken in the past about how it's been positive for you
battling at the top of the British game. Now that he's going to overtake you again, that
is going to give you any extra to wrestle it back from him?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, I think I have a good chance to do that. He's played well. He
deserves to go back to the top because, I mean, he had a great run at Wimbledon, he played
well this summer, he's played well here at The Open. He's actually got a very good chance
this year to go maybe as far as I did last year or even better, who knows. Because the
bottom section's looking like it could open up. I mean, there's Krajicek and Kafelnikov,
but he's got a very good chance. So he deserves to. He's played well. So it's great for
him. I'll be back.

Q. So you aren't going to allow him to relax in luxury of the position?

GREG RUSEDSKI: No. I don't let anybody relax in the position, whether they're the
British No. 1 or whether Mr. Sampras is No. 1. I've still got a little bit of work, shall
we say. Going a little bit backwards at the moment, but hopefully can I take a couple
steps forwards.

Q. Looking back the last couple months, is there any regret on your behalf that you
actually tried to play that match at Wimbledon?

GREG RUSEDSKI: No, I don't think it would have changed anything, to be honest with you.
It didn't make a difference. I had all the MRIs done, I had everything scanned. It didn't
change anything. So there was no regret at all for playing. The only regret I have is
keeping you here so late.

Q. So the next time you'll be on the court will be Davis Cup?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Next time Davis Cup against India. Hopefully Tim and I can do well, and
the rest of the team. Get us to the World Group finally. It's been a long time. I think
it's '91 the last time. It will be great if we can win that.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT