THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 24, 1998
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Was the wind a major factor against you today? 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I don't think I handled conditions well.  I don't think I served particularly well, but Thomas is a good player and he came up with the shots and played well today.  So, all credit due to him.  But for me it was a very poor day in all respects, but these days happen and it is just learning from them and moving forward. 
 

Q.  Can you put your finger on any reason for it?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I don't have a clue.  I am sure I will talk to Tony and we will sort it out.  But I just didn't handle the conditions.  I played a poor match today.  He played awfully well.  So it was a combination of two things. 
 

Q.  Fatigue at all?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  No, I don't think it was fatigue or anything.  I have no excuse.  I went out there. I play.  I tried my best.  But unfortunately it is one of those days you don't want to remember too much about.  
 

Q.  He obviously was after revenge after what happened last tournament?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, I always have difficult with Thomas.  If you are not sharp, he is a very deadly and dangerous player.  So he played awfully well and all credit due to him. 
 

Q.  Davis Cup now?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, I am just going to have a few days off, just relax. 
 

Q.  In the sunshine or will you go home?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I am going to go home tonight.  I am going to leave tonight.  I am going to try book and a flight and go home.  I haven't been home for a month now, I need to go home.  It will be nice. 
 

Q.  Did you tell us you had two weeks off after Davis Cup?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Two weeks off.  I start in Monte Carlo again. 
 

Q.  But even so you have got a few points here this week which is -- it is all a bonus; isn't it?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  First two matches I was pleased with.  Today I wasn't too pleased with, but it is part of the learning experience; just having to learn and take these opportunities and just get better and improve.  I can't really be too disappointed about it.  
 

Q.  When you say you didn't sort of handle the conditions that well, was it simply the ball toss in the wind or was it judgment?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I just think I missed a lot of easy shots.  I misplayed a lot of balls.  Wasn't moving my feet.  Just wasn't doing the basic things properly.  And, if you don't do the basics properly, you get into a lot of trouble. 
 

Q.  Was it impatience or what?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I don't know what it was today.  It was just a bad day today. 
 

Q.  One of those days when you wake up say I rather not be here, perhaps?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  No, I wanted to play.  Had a good start.  First game I played really good.  First service game had a good service game.  Played pretty well.  Then I played a poor service game, then he got up and then he stayed on top of me for the rest of the match. 
 

Q.  Why do you usually make record on first server when you are on 40-Love, you know, usually --
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Maybe I try to hit it a little bit harder on 40-Love. 
 

Q.  Usually you serve big serve on -- whether you are on 40-Love, you made last --
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, because usually just go for it  a little bit more because, you have nothing to lose, just try to hit it harder. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT