THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 23, 1998
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Your thoughts. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I thought I played a good first set.  I was well in control.  The second set, I had a few breakpoints, managed to get the break, was up 40-15 on my serve, played two loose points.  A player of Rosset's stature, is able to come back.  Then it became tight again. Fortunately for me, I managed to take the tiebreaker.  It was only one or two points here or there.  I guess it must have been the Oscars.  I was thinking about going to the Oscars tonight (laughter). 
 

Q.  Are you up for anything there?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  No, unfortunately not.  Hopefully Kate wins it for Titanic this year.  That would be fabulous.  Dame Judy Dench has a chance as well.  Should be exciting.  I always enjoy the Oscars.  Always much more fun. 
 

Q.  Apart from 19 aces, extraordinary shot where you hit the ball into Court No. 4.
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  That was a fabulous shot.  Hit me a  low slice.  That was the game where I actually got broken, 40-30.  The ball really skidded and lifted off a little bit, it went up. 
 

Q.  Do you sort of see Sampras going out early, throwing the world No. 1 thing open --
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think it's very exciting now that Sampras has lost early because there's three players, including myself, Rios and Korda, who have a chance to be No. 1 at the end of the week.  I think it makes for exciting tennis, for people to be excited in the sport a little bit more.  If there's a new No. 1, people start reading more about tennis and it will be good for the game. 
 

Q.  We've asked the ATP up there.  They seem to think that the only way you could do it would be to play the highest ranked player at every step of the way.  For Korda to get a walkover in one of his matches.
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I have to go into the locker room and hurt his next opponent. 
 

Q.  Happens to be Tim.
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I don't know.  Maybe I'll have to call someone up (laughter).  Seriously. 
 

Q.  Is that how you see it?  We've been told --
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  If I can do well and keep  progressing in the event, then I have an opportunity the following weeks to do it.  Just take it one match at a time here.  I think it's exciting because Rios, Korda really have a legitimate shot this week.  If I can progress, then I have a shot this week, then the following weeks as well. Just puts me in a better position. 
 

Q.  You had Enqvist again.  Had him pretty recently.
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Difficult.  Beat him 6-4 in the third.  Difficult match.  Thomas is a great player, big serve, good ground shots.  I think his form is coming back to where it was when he was Top 10 in the world.  I think he has one of the best records on tour this year.  He's always difficult.  I'm expecting another tough match.  I mean, I have to raise my level again. 
 

Q.  On this run you've had through Indian Wells and here, was the Enqvist match the toughest match you've had since you've gone outdoors again?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I'd have to say definitely.  I was down, I think, 6-1 or 6-2 in about 15 minutes.  He definitely returns extremely well.  But I managed to put it together and change the match around in the second set tiebreaker.  Then in the third, I got up an early break, which was nice.  Definitely is difficult with Thomas. 
 

Q.  So even if it might be a longshot here, mathematically, whatever, is it still something that is sort of a long-term ambition if not a short-term one?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, definitely.  You only get your window, shall we say, it's such a short period you have a chance to do it sometimes.  Even to say you were No. 1 for a day is better to say you're No. 2.  It's something special.  People forget that Boris Becker was No. 1 for only ten days, but everybody remembers him as being No. 1 in the world.  He took it away from Edberg after he won the Australian Open, ten days later Stefan was No. 1 again.  People still remember Boris Becker as No. 1 in the world. 
 

Q.  Tim could do you a favor then really if he could get past and put Korda out?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think Korda this week is motivated.  He really sees the opportunity.  I think the last few weeks in Antwerp and Indian Wells, I don't know if he saw it as much.  Maybe this week he really sees it opening.  Just have to wait and see how the draw progresses, hope for the best. 
 

Q.  Tim played well today actually.  Probably got a chance.
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, he's got a chance.  You're  talking Moya and Korda.  It's totally two different styles completely.  Just have to wait and see how it goes out there. 
 

Q.  How much faster can your serve get?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I don't know.  Maybe into the 150 range, if possible.  Just depends if you hit it well.  It's possible.  I'm not too worried about those things.  I'm more worried about winning matches. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT