NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 15, 1998
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MIKI SINGH:  First question for Greg. 
 

Q.  You had trouble getting your first serve in today, Greg.
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, I did. I didn't have the best start on my serve.  I got the rhythm back in the second set a little bit.  But overall, I didn't think I served as well as I possibly could.  I still had a few chances in the match.  I think it was good for me in the respect that I learned from this match, and I'll talk to Tony tonight. We'll go through it because he'll be watching on the tele.  I think I could have been a little bit more aggressive, hit my approaches a bit deeper, served a bit better.  Would have given me a few more chances.  I still had a chance. 
 

Q.  You said you learned from the match.  What did you learn?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I can't tell you all my secrets,  can I (laughter)?  I think Marcelo is a very solid player. I wasn't aggressive enough on his serve.  I should have punished his first serve a little bit more and his second serve.  He kept me at bay a little bit.  I'll just have to work on that area, just be a little bit more aggressive against him.  If you're not, he's a good enough player from the back of the court that he'll dictate you around. 
 

Q.  One of the big surprises was that you didn't manage to break him at all.
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I had three breakpoints in the first set, first game actually.  Then I only had one in the third set.  We had a few games that went to 30-All.  He kept it off balance, mixed it up well today. 
 

Q.  The second set tiebreaker was obviously a defining moment in the match.  Was it as exciting to play, as it was to watch?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think it was an exciting tiebreaker.  He had a little bit of luck today with the net cords.  I should have finished it off at 8-9 in the tiebreak.  The ball bounced over, on the net, I just missed it.  I think I had a few chances today.  Didn't take them.  The third set was probably the key to the match, that tiebreaker.  If I could have won that tiebreaker, might  have been a different story today. 
 

Q.  You're reputed to have one of the greatest serves in the world, yet you win the toss and elect to receive. What's your thinking about doing that?  Don't you like to play from ahead?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  It almost worked, didn't it?  I had three breakpoints. 
 

Q.  It didn't work.
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, it was close to working (laughter).  I mean, I just decided to let him start off serving.  I mean, three breakpoints, I had a good opportunity.  It would have been 1-Love, a break, if I could have connected on one of those.  Might have changed the whole momentum of the match if I could have got that break. 
 

Q.  Does your serve get better routinely as the match goes along?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, it just depends on the day.  I mean, today it wasn't one of my best days, but I'm satisfied with the way I competed.  I gave it my best today.  It's another learning experience. 
 

Q.  Sampras didn't complain, but he mentioned that the ball seems to go a little bit further here.
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  It was a little strange today.  The ball didn't seem to be sailing as much today.  Usually in  the desert air, it sails more than on a normal tennis court, like at the Lipton, where there's a little bit of altitude here, just slightly, makes the ball sail ever so slightly. Doesn't bother me. 
 

Q.  There is altitude?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I don't know, altitude or something.  The dry air, something makes it sail a little bit.  I don't know specifically what it is. 
 

Q.  Do you have to factor that in when you play here?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I guess you might string your racquet a little bit tighter.  That was the only difference.  But some players don't change at all. 
 

Q.  Change your racquet a couple times.  Were you unhappy with the string?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  No.  The string was going to break on the racquet, so I decided to go for a new one rather than having the string break. 
 

Q.  Obviously got into this match very confidently.
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I went into the match confident. I'm sure I'll discuss it with Tony.  We'll see where I went wrong, what I had to do.  It wasn't too good a start.  I had a poor start by losing my first service game to love.  I definitely needed to hold there.  That would have probably -- the first two games could have changed the momentum a little bit.  
 

Q.  That must have been quite a shot to you, drop serve to love?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I did that against Enqvist, wasn't too concerned about it.  First game I had three.  Thought I'd have a chance to get back.  I didn't manage to today. 
 

Q.  Marcelo has had a reputation in the past, and a reputation what he has somewhat supported as being a tank artist at times, not being as tenacious as he could.  Did you not get that impression from him today?  Did you see a fighter across the net?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah.  I thought he competed very well.  I thought I had a chance at 5-All, his head was going down a little bit.  I made two or three unforced errors at 30-All and deuce in that game. I mean, he seems to be competing better than he has in the past, so I guess that's good for him. 
 

Q.  At 5-All in which set?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  In the third set. 
 

Q.  Is this surface inadvisable to go to the net?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Inadvisable (laughter)?  Well, that's an interesting question.  I think it works for most of the players.  I think always playing outdoors it's a little bit slower, so players don't come in necessarily as much.  You have to serve well because the Tour ball is a  very heavy ball we play with, so it's a lot slower.  The Tour is always trying to damage or hurt the serve and volley style by slowing down the balls or slowing down the court, just trying to do something. 
 

Q.  Is Marcelo the kind of guy that keeps to himself on the Tour?  Is he outgoing at all?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Uhm, well, I think he keeps more to himself.  I think most of the players keep more to themselves and do things.  I mean, guys practice together, but there's always that competitive edge in between all the time. 
 

Q.  He kind of said he's not a nice guy and he's glad of it.
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I guess he's trying to get that sort of reputation.  It might sell clothes in Chile.  I don't know what it does (laughter). 
 

Q.  After Gambill played Marcelo, Gambill said he felt that Marcelo was engaging in gamesmanship.  Did you see any of that today?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I think -- I didn't really see any of that today.  As long as you do things within the parameters of the rules, it's absolutely fine.  I mean, I didn't really see any gamesmanship today at all.  There was nothing in gamesmanship at all. 
 

Q.  Do you see that first 150 serve coming off your  racquet soon?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Maybe if I go to Mexico City, where there is altitude, I know that much (laughter).  It could be possible.  Sometimes it's just the day, the weather, how your arm is feeling.  It's just a combination of quite a few things.  We'll have to wait and see. 
 

Q.  Would it count if you set it at seven thousand feet?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I guess so.  I think it still does.  Try to serve at seven thousand feet and put it in the court.  It's quite difficult. 
 

Q.  Could you talk about the long tiebreaker?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  The long tiebreaker, it was a great tiebreaker in the second set.  I had a few chances to win it.  Hit a let cord.  I managed to turn around the match and get back in.  I think the third set was probably the key, that tiebreaker.  If I could have taken that, maybe the momentum might have changed, could have gone my way today. 
 

Q.  He said he didn't keep track of the score in the tiebreaker.  Did you have a feel for how many points?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Not really.  I was just playing one point at a time really.  It's the boring old cliche, shall we say?  We have to sort of play those sort of tiebreakers, concentrate on holding your serve, hoping to be able to get  a break. 
 

Q.  In those situations, do you yourself get excited or is it necessary to keep very calm?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think you have to stay calm in those situations, play some of yours best tennis.  Usually I handle the tiebreakers reasonably well. 
 

Q.  Is that the longest tiebreaker you've had?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think it's one of them.  I think I might have had one or two points longer.  I think that's probably one of the longest. 
 

Q.  Greg, there's a small tournament that they hold in London in June and July.  What would it mean to you to win that tournament?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  The Honda Acura Classic (laughter)?  That's December, sorry.  I'm getting muddled up here.  No, that would be special to do well at Wimbledon this year.  My preparation is to play at Queen's, then do well at Wimbledon.  I think it just depends on the draw. Hopefully if you can get into the second week after Grand Slam, then anything can happen.  That's the key, getting by the early rounds when all the upsets usually occur.  Then if you're in the second week, anything can happen.  If I can keep on improving my game, getting better, I think I have a good chance to do  well there. 
 

Q.  You have a good record in tiebreaks, don't you?  Do you relish the shootout factor that's involved?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I quite enjoy it.  I enjoy the tiebreakers because usually it favors a more aggressive player, a player who plays a serve and volley style, who comes in.  It only comes down to one or two points usually. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT