US OPEN
August 30, 2005
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  First question for Greg. 


Q.  It's been a fabulous effort to get to this position where you could come into the US Open seeded.  Obviously must be frustrating.  Same result as last couple of years. 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, but, you know, I think the draw was probably one of the toughest out there.  The first round, I mean, I think, you know, I didn't take my chances in the first set, I had set point in the first set, 5-4.  Missed a few backhands.  Then the second set, you know, I had two set points, hit two aces, nothing I could do about that.  I think the key were the first two sets.  He was a guy coming with a lot of confidence and playing well.  I didn't feel like I played badly.  I felt like I played better than I did last year.  It just wasn't taking the opportunities in the first two sets and running up against someone who is hot.  I think also with the humidity today and the conditions, it slowed everything down because the last few days have been very dry, no humidity.  That makes a huge difference.  I was approaching on some pretty good shots.  I was made to look pretty average with the approach shots because evening was setting up and he was seeing the ball very well. 

Q.  A couple years since you played him.  Anything about his game that surprised you?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think he's just on a good run right now.  He's very confident.  He won a tournament leading into The Open.  He's had a tough last year.  He played well in Washington.  You know, he couldn't miss anything today.  I think everything was working for him, especially on the big points, especially the first two sets.  There was about four or five points, you know, which I could have been up two sets to love or, you know, could have at least been two sets to one.  But when you're confident and you're playing well, things happen.  I mean, 3-1, I had three first serves, he had three winning returns off me.  So That just shows a confident player who's going for it, you know, not hesitated ever so slightly on my chances to take like I did when I played Hewitt in Cincinnati, and that was the difference the first two sets.  You know, it's just fractions you're talking about in this sport.  I think he's worked hard and good luck to him.  He's put in a lot of time and he seems to be moving well, hitting the ball very well. 

Q.  Even though it's obviously disappointing, will you go away disheartened or actually elevated because you have played so well?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, I think I played a good two sets out there today.  You know, I've got to look at I've played really well.  You just got to get through these matches.  I guess, it's quite funny, I was looking back, before I got to the finals, I lost four or five years in a row -- or three years in a row straight, I think it was.  So maybe next year I'll come back and it will be better for me.  Because I've lost three years straight, and next year's supposed to be a good year at The Open. 

Q.  Obviously last year you had a major crisis in your career.  Must have been really tough times.  You really came back, got into the top 30. 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I'm very pleased with the summer. 

Q.  My question is, back when you were having the problems, what were your greatest doubts and how did you deal with them?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I just think, you know, it was the injustice I was being put through with the whole situation.  I think it was very unfair.  Now we found out it's all natural in the body.  So it irritates and makes people angry.  And I think, you know, it's just wanting to prove I want to come back, plus the tour gave me absolutely zero help.  You know, it's just something where you want to fight back and prove people wrong, show you can still play well.  Plus I've been healthy and put in the time, so it's very satisfying to get in the top 30 again.

Q.  What was that feeling like?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think it's an injustice.  You know, rules for some and rules for others.  I just think, you know, that's what motivates me.  You know, I still felt like I could play very well.  So that was the key for me. 

Q.  You now have more than two weeks. 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Don't remind me.  I was hoping to still be here. 

Q.  What will you do? 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I'm going to go home tonight.  I'm going to fly out and see if I can get a flight tonight.  I'm just going to take a few days off. 

Q.  You won't play at all between now and....

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Most likely not, I don't think.  I'm going to have a little bit of a rest.  Then I think we have the training camp coming up the Wednesday the week before, getting ready, so we'll have 10 days leading up to the time on indoor clay.

Q.  Where is that camp?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think somewhere in France.  Jeremy has organized something for us.  We will be all set and the team will be ready to go. 

Q.  Is the motivation, which appears to still be there, you actually got to 30 in the world, that seeding we know you wanted, is it the next thing top 20, next thing maybe British No. 1?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think for me right now I want to climb higher and do better.  I think the key for me is just getting through these sorts of matches like today, taking those big points.  That's what I have to do.  You know, the last two weeks I've played, I just haven't managed to capitalize on that.  That's what I've been doing the whole summer.  That's what I have to do.  But it's also you need a little bit of luck, you need a few little things.  If I keep working hard and keep staying healthy, then I think those things can happen and I can go higher.  The exciting thing is for me next year I'll be very fit for all the slams, I'll have had nearly about two years preparation, which is a great buildup for me.  So things are going the right direction.  So I have to look at the positives.  You know, I have to sit here and say James played great.  You have to give him credit.  I mean, I didn't lose the match.  He came out and he hit some fantastic shots.  I mean, you saw the match.  I mean, all credit to him.  He's been through a lot the last year.  So if you're going to lose to someone, you know, you might as well lose to a guy who's a nice guy and been through a lot and playing great tennis.  I wish him well.  He was just too good on the day and I didn't take my chances.  Good luck to him. 

Q.  During the situation, have you spoken to the Argentinians and shared with them your feelings, what it's like to be accused?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  No, I haven't spoken to them about the situation.  I think everybody has their tiny camps and their cliques.  My Spanish is good, but it's not that good. 

Q.  How comfortable are you playing with Murray in Davis Cup?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I'm looking forward to it.  I think Andrew has a great chance today to win.  We've had unfortunately two losses today.  Hopefully, he can give us something to cheer about with the win today.  It would be great.  I think he's got a great future.  I love his attitude.  He doesn't pull any punches.  He says how he feels, he doesn't really care what the consequences are.  You know, he wants to be there.  He loves it.  I think he's got a great attitude and he's a fighter.  I'm excited about it.  That's one of the reasons I love playing Davis Cup.  And I saw potential for a great player there and still to have a good team out there.  So for me it's an exciting prospect.  I like him very much.  He's got a lot of respect for this game.  He studies the game.  He knows the history of the game.  You know, he wants to get better every day, which is an exciting thing to watch. 

Q.  How much more of a chance does he give you against Switzerland than you would have had without him?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, definitely I think he does.  I think we've got a good chance for two points in the singles against Wawrinka.  Obviously, his best surface is clay, that's why they chose it.  After that, we have to find one of the three somehow against Federer who is going to probably going to play the two doubles and the singles (sic).  I think it gives a great opportunity and makes the tie a hell of a lot more interesting, a good chance for us to cause maybe an upset.  They're obviously the favorites there with Roger there.  The way he played today, I mean, he looks likes he's going to be here for two weeks. 

Q.  As an expectant father, how do you expect that to change your life on tour?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I'm just excited about it.  I'm looking forward to it.  It's a great thing to have children.  My wife and I are very excited.  We're looking forward to it. 

Q.  Have you talked to some of the other players that have kids?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think Andre, I talked to Andre a little bit about it.  He's got two kids.  Tim's got two kids.  Bjorkman has a kid.  Mirnyi has a newborn baby.  A lot of players on tour have kids.  They manage to do it and do a great job. 

Q.  What did Andre say?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  He gave me some advice, but I'll keep that between me and him. 

Q.  Any other advice you'd like to share?  What have people told you about this kind of lifestyle?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, you know, I don't know.  I'm going to keep it to myself. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT