NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 13, 1998
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MIKI SINGH:  Greg is a 2-6, 7-6, 1 in the tiebreak, 6-4 winner this morning over Thomas Enqvist. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I finished in the afternoon, 12:01. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I wish I was in the final. 
 

Q.  Another gritty display, Greg, coming back from Love-4?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I was pleased with the way I  competed today.  I thought I had a poor start.  I wasn't hitting my serve well enough.  I'm sure when I speak to Tony, he'll have a few choice words with me about the first few games of the match.  I stayed mentally focused, started hitting my serve, being more aggressive, taking more chances, things came around positively for me. 
 

Q.  Chip and charge, was that something you thought about before?  Did you go into the match planning to do that?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I was trying to be aggressive on him.  He was serving so well in the beginning; I wasn't serving very well, I wasn't finding my rhythm.  With Thomas, if you don't serve as well, he has fabulous returns, he showed what happened in the first three games of the match. 
 

Q.  Obviously you had a strategy, trying to keep him on his backhand, stop him running around on it?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I was just trying to keep him in play, wait for the short ball to get in really.  It seemed to work well today. 
 

Q.  How much further do you think you can take the big serving?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I really don't think about that, to be quite honest with you.  If I would have had 146, world record, and lost the match, I would have been very  disappointed.  Any day, I'd rather take a match win, because that's the most important thing, trying to get higher in the rankings.  It's a nice little thing to have as a plus with the match today. 
 

Q.  Do you think you can go to 150?  What's the limit that a human being can hit a tennis ball?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  It's possible maybe to go to 150. It depends on the air.  The air is a little dry here; the ball is going to sail through the air quicker.  In this altitude, it's possible.  Let's hope it's not happening against me. 
 

Q.  When you go into tiebreaks that you have to win, your confidence is pretty good, presumably, because you've played in so many tiebreaks.
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think I've played quite a few in my career.  With my game vastly improving, I'm playing a few less, which is nice.  The week in Rotterdam, I played two very disappointing tiebreakers against Krajicek.  It was a very positive thing for me to come out and play a good tiebreaker in such a big match this week.  That was very much a positive thing for me. 
 

Q.  Are you not an early morning person, Greg?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Actually, I've been up every day  since 5:00 here.  Maybe I'm too early a person.  Maybe that's my problem. 
 

Q.  Love-4, must have been quite a surprise to you?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Was a little bit of a surprise.  I kept my head together.  I started to serve properly.  I got that first game.  Things started to roll.  Even his first service game, I had two or three deuces.  I was playing close on his service games, even though he was winning them.  I knew if I could just get that little extra, I had an opportunity to get back in the match.  Fortunately for me today, it happened. 
 

Q.  Do you know the velocity of your ordinary shots?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Forehand 150, backhand a little bit above 100.  I haven't clocked the velocity of my other shots.  I think the serve is probably the fastest thing you could clock.  If they could find a way to clock a return of serve off a hard serve like that, then maybe they could choose the velocity. 
 

Q.  Apparently you also had 144 that he got back.
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  He did.  That was breakpoint to get back on serve at 4-5.  That was a tremendous return by him to win that point, to get back on serve in the second set. I wasn't too pleased to see it come back, though. 
 

Q.  Greg, did somebody tell you that was the one you  hit 144 or were you watching the clock during the point?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I looked afterwards.  I thought I hit a good serve.  I hit it too close to him, block.  He managed to hit a good forehand return.  Players like Agassi, Bjorkman, if you hit it to their zone, they can bring back anything. 
 

Q.  Do you enjoy having the clock, speed gun?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think it's a good thing for me. I can look over and say, "Why is this guy returning my serve so well today?"  I use it as a tool to help myself, maybe I'm not hitting my serve hard enough, not going for the corners. You can check to see what the speed of your serve is.  In the first few games, I missed a lot of first serves, but my speed wasn't up to a high enough standard. It kind of helps you in that respect.  You don't look at it, "I hit 146, let's go for 148."  You use it to taper it to see if the guy is really playing that well or if it's because you're not serving hard enough. 
 

Q.  What's the difference between your first serve and second serve velocity-wise?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think probably my second serve is anywhere between 105 miles an hour to about 123.  So it's a little bit slower because you're going to play it a little bit safer, so you have more slice or kick on the ball, so  it's a little bit different. 
 

Q.  Did you have any second serve aces today?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think I had a few today.  I'll leave those to the statisticians. 
 

Q.  Do you toss the ball higher than an ordinary player?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think I toss the ball the same on both serves, my first or my second serve.  Just try to get a good, high ball toss, then just go after it really. 
 

Q.  Jim Courier used to ask to have the speed gun turned off during his matches.  Do you think it's an advantage or disadvantage for you to have it register?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I like having it there because I use it to help my game.  But if it's not there, I think I can realize what's happening.  I think it's a little bit of a help for me. 
 

Q.  This is all a great bonus to you, because you didn't play here last year?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Definitely.  I'm really pleased because my last Super 9, I made the quarterfinals.  To get into the semis this week is tremendous.  I want to keep on going in the event.  I have a good opportunity tomorrow playing either Muster or Medvedev.  If I can hit some of the form I had in the tiebreak in the third set, then I have a good possibility to continue  in the event, which would be fantastic.  It can move my rating up and get me to closer grasp of the top three players in the world. 
 

Q.  Those hard serves bounce higher than a second serve?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Second serve probably bounce higher than the first serve.  The first serve is flatter, the trajectory, won't bounce as high off the court. 
 

Q.  Was the tiebreak your best spell in the match, in your opinion?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, I think so, definitely.  I had some good chip and charges.  I think I only made one unforced error, which was on the third point of the tiebreak on a backhand slice I missed up the line.  I think besides that it was a flawless tiebreaker.  I think that really helped me. 
 

Q.  The forehand service return down the line was nice, wasn't it?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah.  That was what clinched the tiebreaker, really.  It was 4-1, slice up the line to give me 5-1.  I think he felt a little bit of pressure at 5-1.  I got a second serve, he gave me a double-fault, then finished it off. 
 

Q.  Could you see him getting a bit disconsolate?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think he's a good professional.  I think it's always difficult when someone is serving well.  In the beginning of the first part of the match, he was serving well; I was having a bit of trouble.  Then I managed raise my standard, which helped a lot.  Hopefully, if I can serve well, might not keep people as positive, which would be nice. 
 

Q.  When you were a kid, was there any player you used to look up to because he had a huge serve or something?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I used to enjoy watching McEnroe and Stefan Edberg play because of their serve and volley style.  McEnroe was so unique because he could hit shots most people could never hit in their lifetime.  Edberg was a fantastic volleyer.  He moved so well; was a graceful player to watch.  I don't think I'm in the same sort of viewership as them.  I'm a little bit different. 
 

Q.  How old were you when you started to hit aces past people?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I don't know.  I've always had a good serve.  It was something that always came pretty natural to me.  I guess I always had it since I was a young age.  I wouldn't say I was hitting as many aces as I do now. 
 

Q.  Before you were ten or something like that maybe?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Probably.  I could probably not see  over the net too well (laughter). 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT