NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 12, 1998
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MIKI SINGH:  6-3, 7-5 was the score today for Greg over Carlos Moya.  Will play Thomas Enqvist tomorrow. Beaten him three out of four meetings. 
 

Q.  One to be pleased about, wasn't it, that performance?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, I was very pleased the way I played today.  I thought I served a lot better today.  I returned -- was much more solid today on my overall game.  So I was just delighted with the way I played. 
 

Q.  You were able to get to the net more this time?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah.  I was more aggressive.  I went after my second serve, my first serve more today.  I just fixed up a few areas I wasn't pleased with yesterday. It was a positive step forward in the event. 
 

Q.  You were saying this is only your second Super 9 quarterfinal, is that right?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  That it is.  So it's nice to be in the quarterfinals again.  I'm going to be play Thomas  Enqvist, who is starting to get his form back like he was when he was in the Top 10.  The only reason he's not in the Top 10 or 20 at the moment is because he had knee surgeries or something wrong with his shoulder, just been very unfortunate with his health.  I think his best tennis is coming around again right now. 
 

Q.  But you have a winning record against him?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah.  But you kind of throw that all out the window when it comes to playing the matches. He's played well on the hardcourts in America in the past.  If I play like I did today, be a good chance to win tomorrow. 
 

Q.  Did you feel more comfortable today with one victory under your belt, going back on the same court?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, it always helps to have a first round match.  Especially to come out after match that was that difficult yesterday, you always get a lot of confidence.  The transition from indoors to outdoors is always very difficult.  That one match under my belt really helped. 
 

Q.  What was the Super 9 you were in the quarterfinal of?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Paris last year. 
 

Q.  Paris indoors?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I'm on a roll right now, two in a  row (laughter). 
 

Q.  Greg, what are some of the keys to having a great serve?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Toss up the ball high, hit it, and really don't think about it (laughter).  I think it was something I was brought up with.  It was a pretty natural stroke for me.  I really haven't had to work that hard on it.  I think the placement is key, and being able to have the combination with the power is always nice. 
 

Q.  Is it necessary to snap down on the ball very hard, or do you think it's more toss?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I really don't think about it, to be quite honest.  If I thought about it, I think I'd be having a lot of trouble with it.  I think if you talk to like Agassi, who returns probably -- probably one of the best returners in the world, I don't think he really thinks what he's doing when he's returning.  He just know what he has to do.  That's the kind of thing I do on my serve. 
 

Q.  There's a difference between first and second serve, right?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, there's a little bit of a  difference.  You're just putting more spin or slice on the second than you would on the first, which is slightly more flat. 
 

Q.  Getting to the finals last year at Flushing make you a better tennis player?  Did it give you the confidence so many athletes say they need to go on to the next step?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  It made me take a good look at myself.  Gave me a lot of confidence.  I was very disappointed, having lost in the final. It was a great run for me, but I wanted to find a solution to become a better tennis player.  I think it gave me confidence, but it also gave me the motivation and realization that I can be that much of a better player, only being one step away from winning a Grand Slam. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Thank you. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT