NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 11, 1998
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MIKI SINGH:  Greg is a three-set winner today over Vince Spadea.  Tomorrow's third round he'll play Carlos Moya.  First question.


Q.  A little time to get into it, get going, find a first serve?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah.  There was a little bit of time to adjust.  Coming from Rotterdam outdoors -- I mean, from indoors to outdoors is always difficult.  Then the jet lag and everything.  I mean, Vince is a very good player. He had two matches in qualifying, then he won his first round match.  He was match fit today.  I mean, I didn't play the big points well in the first set.  That's what really hurt me.  Two double-faults on two breakpoints.  That really put me behind.  Fortunately for me, I just kept on fighting and found my game.  It just came good in the end.


Q.  Tough it out despite not serving well, didn't you? 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah.  I think I was down a set and 2-Love.  He was dominating on the returns a little bit.  But then I started to hit my serve a little bit more, get a little more aggressive, start attacking.  Things managed to turn my way.  I think in the second and third set after 6-4, 2-Love, I started to play the big points well.  Breakpoint down, come up with the big serve.  When I had my chances, I managed take them.  That was the difference between the first set.  I had about maybe five or six breakpoints in the first set.  I only took one of them.  Then when I had breakpoints, I served two double-faults which doesn't help too much.


Q.  To balance that, because you had two aces to finish off the match.  You were glad to see those go in, where you?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I was very pleased.  He played a good game on the returns.  I didn't punch maybe one or two volleys in the last game.  I managed to gut it out, which was nice.


Q.  Given that he was match fit, were you still a bit surprised how well he played?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  No.  I've known him since Juniors, because I used to play a lot of the junior events in America when I was about 13 or 14.  He's always been a good player. He won the Junior Orange Bowl.  He has a good return of  serve.  He's beaten Philippoussis, Rosset, beaten good players with big serves.  You have to respect the way he plays.  If you give him an inch, he'll usually take more. That's what players can do on the Tour.  You always have to be match fit and match sharp every day.


Q.  Do you tell yourself now to be aggressive, if you find yourself in a tough situation?  A set and a break down isn't the best situation.  Do you now tell yourself, "Come on, I've got a big game, got to use it"?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I believe I can get back from any position now.  I think I've solidified my game on the returns.  I think I'm competing a lot better.  That's the key right now.  I'm down a set and a break.  I don't feel like I'm relying only on my serve.  I have other things that work for me, can get me through, which is definitely a positive for me.  Every game in the first set, I was in the service games.  I was having a chance.  So I just felt like I had a good opportunity.  Then I managed to raise my standard a little bit, kept going, getting better.


Q.  How conscious were you that this is kind of a hoo-doo tournament for you?  You hadn't won a match here in three times.

GREG RUSEDSKI:  It's nice to be in the third round only having won one match.  I guess it's making up by giving  me a bye so I can get into the second round, being able to win my first match is nice.  It's different.  The conditions are very, very different from most tournaments.  You're playing with a little bit of altitude.  The balls are flying.  We're playing with a tour ball, which is very heavy.  It's a strange combination.  You can serve well and play big tennis.  When you get into a rally sometimes, it's a little bit slower.  The ball flies through the air.  It's a funny thing to adjust to.


Q.  You needed to adjust from indoors where the rallies tend to be a bit shorter?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think I had to adjust a little bit to that.  Last year we went from Rotterdam to London, very quick weeks.  I guess I agree.


Q.  Did you tell Tony yet?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  No, I haven't spoken to him.  I'm going to call him in the morning.  He gave me good instructions for today's match.  He wanted to hear good things in the morning.  At least I'll have something positive to say.


Q.  Carlos Moya, Greg?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  He's a very good player.  I beat him indoors, Stuttgart, I believe in '86, 6-2, 6-3.  He beat me on clay in Bournemouth last year something like 6-2, 6-3,  6-2, 6-2.  It's going to be a good match.  I think he's getting back into good form.  To be Kucera, Sampras, Korda, he must have played some very good tennis.  I think if I can stay aggressive, serve well, play my game, I have a good opportunity to advance.


Q.  The draw has opened up rather nicely after Moya, possibly, hasn't it?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I'm not going to really look that far ahead.  I only take it one match at a time.  I really can't go that far ahead of me because I haven't done that well here, as you said (laughter).  It's a good opportunity to do well.  Hopefully I can take advantage.  If I can win tomorrow, then that will be a plus for me because I've only reached one quarterfinals in a Super 9.  That would be my second if I could win tomorrow.  Hopefully I could continue the run, which would be nice.  There's some fantastic matches, Ulihrach beat Kafelnikov, Muster, Enqvist, Sampras.  There's not really any easy sections when you have 29 of the Top 30 players here.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT