ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 12, 1997
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Greg, first of all, your fitness, did you have any problem with the thigh? 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah.  I just woke up this morning and my hamstring on my right side was extremely tight, and it was hard to move on this morning.  Before the match, I had the trainer warm it up. Just put a tape around it.  But I couldn't move at all with the wrap on, I took it off.  Unfortunately, trying to play against Sampras not 100% fit is not the easiest of tasks. 
   

Q.  How much and in what particular way was it a handicap, Greg?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I'm not going to say because in case, hopefully, I get it better to play Carlos on Friday.  It just hurt my movement today. 
   

Q.  There were several times when you were clearly feeling it, looked as if you pulled up going for shots.
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah.  I couldn't go for certain  balls.  I was probably about a step, a step and a half late on certain balls that I normally would get to.  Pete came up with some good tennis today, and he was the better player today. 
   

Q.  How much did the injury affect your confidence overall?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Beg your pardon? 
   

Q.  How much did the injury affect your confidence overall?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  It's hard to go out there against Sampras, the No. 1 player in the world, on any given day. You have to be a hundred percent fit.  So I'm sure he knows how to take advantage of those situations.  I was a little bit disappointed because to get to Hannover, to play such a good first match against Patrick, and to barely lose it, and then to come in today and to wake up and have this hamstring, a pulled hamstring, is a little bit disappointing. 
   

Q.  You did still have your chances, though, Greg, at the odd juncture of the match?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah.  I had a few Love-30s and 15-30s, but Pete came up with some good volleys and had some good shots.  I think he's starting to find his form again, so it should be an exciting match with Patrick and Pete again.  
   

Q.  Did you feel your injury yesterday during the match?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  No, I didn't feel it yesterday at all.  It had no effect.  I just woke up this morning and it was just very, very sore. 
   

Q.  Has that got something to do with the court?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I don't really have a clue whether it has anything to do with the court (laughter).  I don't imagine so.  Maybe I just did a funny motion somewhere or something.  I didn't feel it at all yesterday.  It was just first this thing morning when I woke up. 
   

Q.  Do you think perhaps that you paid a bit of a price for the way Sampras played yesterday, he was determined to bring his game back together again so quickly?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think if I played the way I did yesterday and maybe a little bit better, I would have had a better chance.  I had a few opportunities, but I think Pete served a little better today.  If I can play my best tennis, I can have a good shot on any given day. 
   

Q.  When you saw him lying flat out on the bench, did you think luck might be changing a little bit?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  No.  I knew he'd be back out.  He only had a bloody nose, so it wasn't too serious.  Actually  came out and served better (laughter). 
   

Q.  Greg, a lot of double-faults today.  Was that because you were going for both serves?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I just couldn't push up, that was the problem.  That's my dominant foot to push up (indicating).  That doesn't really help completely. 
   

Q.  Greg, Patrick was saying after -- after Rafter lost the Grand Slam Cup finals to Sampras in Munich, that come-what-may a lot of players think he's up there and the rest of you guys are there (indicating)?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  No.  I don't feel that way.  I think Sampras has proven himself as one of the greatest players to be.  I think we're catching up, a lot of us.  I think we're all working on our games, trying to get better. I'm sure one of us in the pack will catch him, one day soon, hopefully. 
   

Q.  Taking into account the injuries, I mean, 6-4, 7-5 is not a bad result against a No. 1, is it?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah.  But I'd rather like to win, but unfortunately didn't go my way today.  Considering everything, it's a little bit disappointing because if I could have been 100% fit, I could have given it a better go.  But I tried my best today, and that's all I can say.  
   

Q.  So you may ask for a Friday start?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I hopefully will be able to get a Friday start.  We'll just have to wait and see. 
   

Q.  That's basically what I was going to ask.  Also, how is it feeling now?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, it's very tight.  I just had it stretched, I'm going to get some treatment after I get done here. 
   

Q.  The APT Tour Championship has taken place in Hannover, city of the World Exposition.  Would you like to come in the year 2000 to Hannover and what do you expect from the World Exposition?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, if they give me an invite, maybe I'll come (laughter).  But we're having our celebrations in London as well, so I'm not sure if I'll be able to make it. 
   

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT