ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 11, 1997
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Greg, you served so well in the opening set.  Then the fifth game of the second, things started to go.

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah.  I think in the second set, that one game, Pat came up with some good returns.  I missed a few too many -- gave him too many second serves.  Took advantage.  Didn't serve the best game there.  I was still in the match all the way through it. Just came down to one point here and there.  30-40 breakpoint, he came up with a backhand pass that I was there on top of, and it hit the top of the net, just went off my frame.  A little bit unlucky.  But I thought throughout the match, I played pretty well today.  It was positive in a lot of respects.  When Pat needed to come up with the shots, he did.
  

Q.  Did you actually connect with the net on that point?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  No.  It just hit the net and I tried to reflex it, it came right off the top of my frame.  I didn't think it would have.  Probably would have landed in the court.  He didn't hit it that hard particularly.  It would have dropped in.
  

Q.  There was a point in the game you were broken when you served an ace, we were about 300 yards away, but it certainly looked good to us.

GREG RUSEDSKI:  When I broke in the second set, I felt I had two aces that were called out.  The speed I serve at, it's hard to tell whether it's good or not.  The only way you could see is if you have one of those infrared machines.  Unfortunately, I didn't have one there.
  

Q.  But the one down the middle in particular, did you think --

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah.  I thought both serves were good.  But that's the way it goes.  Sometimes you get the calls and sometimes you don't.  But it didn't make the difference in the match.  It was just that one let cord which made the big key in the match, because we were one set all and anything could have happened.  I got back from Love-40, 30-40, I was right on the volley.  If it would have been a clean, regular shot, I would have had the volley easy.
  

Q.  Does Moya upsetting Pete, does that help you or doesn't it make any difference?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I don't think it really makes any  difference.  You just got to go out there and win the remaining matches you have.  Carlos must have played a great match today to have beaten Pete.  So a lot of credit is due to Carlos today.
  

Q.  Do you have any idea yet when you play next?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I play probably tomorrow either second match or third match.
  

Q.  Against?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Against Sampras.  Because the two winners play each other in each group, and the two losers play each other.
  

Q.  Greg, you said yesterday that the humidity in the stadium may affect the pace of the balls.

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yes.
  

Q.  Did you feel the court played much slower than you expected?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, with the people inside, the court plays definitely slower.  It's a lot quicker when there's nobody in the hall.  I think the court speed is very fair.  It's very good for the spectators to watch tennis and enjoy the matches.  A few good rallies.  When Pat and I play, we're going to be coming in all the time, so it doesn't really affect our style so much.
  

Q.  Pete apparently said that it was much slower than  he'd expected.  He felt that it did take some of the edge away from his game.  Did you feel the same or not?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  No, I didn't feel the same at all. Give me a tennis ball, give me any court, I'll serve aces and play my game.  Doesn't really matter what the court is like.
  

Q.  Was there any difference between this and the U.S. Open final, any comparisons?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think I played a better match today than I did in the U.S. Open finals.  I think I returned a lot better.  I think overall I played well.  But when Pat needed to raise his game, he came up with it.  He was the better man today.  So I take it as a positive, positive match for myself today.  My first match ever in Hannover, I thought I competed very well, and showed a good performance.  Hopefully for the next two matches, I can play at the standard or better.
  

Q.  Pete was talking about the balls scuffing up a lot.  Did you find that?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  The balls scuff up a little bit, but that's normal for the ATP Tour ball.  That's the way it always plays, gets big.  I had no problems with the balls, the courts or anything today.  I think it was absolutely fine. 
  

Q.  And does Pete's defeat, does that sort of still give you hope for the rest of the week?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I'm looking forward to my match tomorrow.  I'm looking forward to my match after that.  So I'm just going to take it one match at a time and just try to play as well I did today and hopefully a little bit better.
  

Q.  Do you think there's anything you would have to do much better than you did today, any one particular shot?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah.  Just tighten the net cord a little bit more (laughter).  That might help me out a little bit.
  

Q.  You said you thought you played a better match today than at the U.S. Open.  In a way, do you think he played a better match as well?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, he got hot when he needed to.  I mean, I didn't have any break chances after the first set.  But like 30-All, 15-30, he came up with some fantastic volleys.  I mean, the game - I believe it was 4-3 -  we were at 30-All.  He came up with two good backhand passes up the line.  One he flicked with a cross-court, the other he hit a very good volley.  He deserved to win.  He played a very good match today.
  

Q.  Greg, you seem to be quite literally hitting  through your returns, particularly on the backhand side today.  Was that a game plan that you were going to try and drive the returns rather than slice?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I've been working on my returns to hit and to mix it up and to do things.  So I think everything in my game is progressively getting better.  To keep on improving and to get higher in the rankings, that's what I have to keep on working on, keep on doing.
  

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT