EUROCARD OPEN
October 22, 1997
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Were you just a bit flat tonight or just the other guy was too good? 
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, I tried my best today. I went out there; he played a good match.
Maybe I didn't play as best as I possibly could, but he deserved to win today. He was the
better man today. 
 
Q. Was it perhaps a case that obviously you were very tired; you take a week off, and
the momentum is gone, perhaps?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: No, I don't think so. It is just one match. You can't win every match,
but you can always try. 
 
Q. Were you surprised at how well he played because we all know he is --
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: He is a very good player, no. He played extremely well the last few
weeks. I think he had the Finals in Singapore and he won his first event in Toulouse. He
is a very good player; very excellent player coming up. I am not surprised in how well he
played.  
 
Q. The first game of the third set you doublefaulted twice.
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Yes. 
 
Q. Was that the killer for you?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: No, I had chances to get back. I had some 30-Alls and some 15-30s, but,
I just didn't take my opportunities today and that is all right. I still got three weeks
to go and I just got to look at the positive and learn from my mistakes today. 
 
Q. Catching up anyway; a lot of them have already had setback as well.
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, I mean, I am not looking at that respect. I am still trying to get
to Hannover. Next week is a new week and I am looking forward to it. 
 
Q. What do you think, will you go back to London for a couple of days, straight to
Paris?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, I think I will probably go to London for a few days. 
 
Q. Was there any point tonight when you sort of felt it wasn't going to be your night?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: No, I tried 100% all the way through and he just came up with the shots
when he needed to and I didn't. And that is the way it goes some days in tennis. 
 
Q. There is also that roll-over net cord that cost you the break. I mean, that must
psychologically lift him as well?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, I mean, it was only one point. I had two volleys I should have
made in that game, so, I think it is all in retrospect, you are going to get a let cord
here or there, so it didn't really make a difference. If I would have made one of the
volleys, it would have been game point for me, so, it wouldn't have come into play
necessarily. 
 
Q. He is a pretty good all-around talent and has a hefty serve, too?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, he served well. He played well. He is a good player. It is
exciting and good for Germany, especially I think probably he moves up to the German No. 1
spot this week. It is exciting for Germany. They are a big market for tennis and it is
nice for them to see somebody new. 
 
Q. Do you think the week off that you had --
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, I needed the week off. There was no question about it. I thought I
came out and played pretty well today in the first set. I just didn't take my
opportunities and maybe serve as well as I like in the last two sets, but I went out
there; gave it 100%. If you could win every tennis match, then you would only play four
tournaments a year. (laughs). 
 
Q. You are so close to getting to Hannover, isn't that sort of always in your mind now?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, it is my goal to get to Hannover. I am just looking forward to the
next two weeks coming up. If I have a good week in Paris, then this week will be forgotten
and we move on. 
 
Q. Doesn't seem like your confidence has been knocked at all by this.
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Well - (laughs) - I think that would be a hard thing to say if my
confidence goes after one match. Sampras, he is No. 1 in the world, I think he has lost
maybe ten matches this year, whatever it is, eight or nine, I have only lost maybe 17 or
18, so I can't be too disappointed. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT