COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
September 26, 1997
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  How does that compare with some of the best victories you've had?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I think I had a really good strategy going into the match.  It's very satisfying because I felt after the first set that I had a really good opportunity, and I played a poor tiebreaker.  Then I really picked it up in the next two sets.


Q.  Greg, how much do you think your serve, in fact, sort of disillusioned him?  Although you had that one double-fault, crucial in the tiebreak, other than that really you just didn't give him much relief at all?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  He had 15-40 twice on me in the first set twice.  I think the key to the match was my returns today.  I served extremely well.  I was constantly putting pressure on him on my returns, coming over them.  I thought I hit them well today.


Q.  Second and third set, is that the best you've played?  Got to be up there?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Some of the best tennis I've  played.  I feel if I can play at that level on a consistent base, I can get to my new goals.


Q.  What are your new goals?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I mean, next two weeks I have to defend my spot in the Top 10; after that, try to get in the Top 5 in the world.


Q.  What was your strategy then, Greg?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Top secret, sorry (laughter).  I'm not going to tell him what my strategy was out there.  I'm going to keep that to myself for next time.


Q.  Your backhand approach worked really well when you went to the net?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah.  I mean the chip and charge worked well, coming over the ball.  I think overall, everything worked out really well.


Q.  You lost the first set on that tiebreak, double-fault, he had 15-40 on your serve in the first game of the second set.  When you came through that, you never looked back.  Do you remember that as being sort of a key point in the match or not?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I thought that was a big game to hold, especially to come back and have those two big first serves.  Then after that, the break right away, to go up two-nil was crucial.  I think that started to set the momentum of the rest of the match. 


Q.  To us he looked as if he was losing steam and getting disillusioned.  Was that the impression you got?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, I think so.  I think he got down on himself a little bit.  I think when he was down two breaks and 5-1, it's quite difficult on this sort of court to come back.  If it was a claycourt surface, I think he'd be a little happier at the time.


Q.  Looking forward to tomorrow, is it a case of unfinished business?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  No.  I'm very much looking forward to it.  I'm sure Pete's looking forward to the match as well.  He likes to give me a little bit of stick now and then.  I'm going to have a good match out there.  It's going to be interesting.  I have nothing to lose.  Pete's No. 1 in the world.  He's expected to win.  Hopefully I set up a good strategy and try my best out there.


Q.  Greg, is this a kind of good benchmark for you tomorrow?  I mean, it's the ultimate test, isn't it?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  You could say that, yes.  I think this was good test I passed today because I lost to him convincingly in Adelaide.  To beat him 3-1 shows my improvement as a player.  I think Sampras definitely will be a test tomorrow.


Q.  Going back to San Jose were you beat Agassi and  Chang, was that the best form you were in or are you playing as well again now?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think those two sets was about the same form I was playing in San Jose.  If I can keep that sort of form against Pete tomorrow, it will be good.  But Pete's going to serve a lot better than Kafelnikov does, so it's going to be interesting.  He beat Bjorkman, who is a very difficult player to beat and returns extremely well. So he's playing well.


Q.  You beat Bjorkman as well.

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, that's true.  But take it one step at a time tomorrow.


Q.  You had two days off, obviously.  How did you sort of while away the time?  It is a bit odd, isn't it?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  No.  It was fine.  It was very good.  I got to work on aspects of my game I wasn't pleased with on Tuesday.  I think I cleaned up those areas.  It was very positive for me, because it was nice to have the two days off and to get the practice in.  I think it paid off really well today.


Q.  Who have you been hitting with?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I'm hitting with Magnus Norman. There's a junior here, Andy, who I've just been hitting with a few hours a day.  He's about 21, so it's been good.


Q.  You worked out the wrinkles with Teach.  Have you  worked out the wrinkles in the game yourself?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah.  I've been working those things out.


Q.  Have you been out and about?  You haven't been to the beer festival?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I haven't been to the beer festival yet.  I said I might go down after this week's over. Hopefully I can keep going and go all the way.  There's a big obstacle tomorrow.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT