COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
September 23, 1997
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Could you expound on that?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I thought Todd started off pretty well.  I mean, he returned well.  I didn't serve the corners enough.  If you don't serve the corners against a player such as Todd Woodbridge, he's going to take advantage of it because of his excellent returns.  I managed to almost get back into the first set, but he was the better player.  I didn't make him play enough returns.  Then the second set I saw him have a little bit of a letdown.  I managed to take advantage of it. Unfortunately, I didn't manage to break first game of the third set when I was up 40-Love.  I came back on a few 15-40s on my own serve in the third, which was good.


Q. Was it a question of a week off, might have lost a little edge in that time?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  No, I don't think so.  I think it's just getting used to it.  There's a little altitude here. I've been here since Saturday trying to prepare and get ready.  I mean, I'm just pleased.  It's always good to come  through a tough match and win like that.  I was pleased with the way I competed.  Good to get a good result tonight.


Q. Is the court to your liking?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  It's very quick.  It was actually a little slower tonight than it's been playing throughout the week.  The first few days, it was a little bit quicker.  The court is very good.  It's like grass indoors almost.  It's very, very low bouncing, takes the slice good.


Q. How does it compare to the really quick ones?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I think it's a little similar to Tokyo.  But I think it's the altitude.  The ball, try to play with a slower ball, but it's still very quick.


Q. Ordinary sort of people probably struggle to comprehend the amount of money there is.  Was it possible to kind of put that out of your head?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I kind of thought about it when I was serving for the match and got into trouble.  I said, "My God, it's $250,000 if I win this last service game."  I got a little bit nervous there.  Fortunately, for me, I managed to close it out.


Q. It is like that a bit then?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, for me, my first experience ever being here.  It's my first time ever in the Grand Slam Cup.  I think with this win, I'm close to passing the $1 million in prize money.  That was something I was trying to  get a goal of as well.  It's just something really, really nice to have.  I think I can relax now after that first match.  I think the first one's always the worst.


Q. You were talking about the prize money.  You said in Bournemouth that your aim here was to maybe use the money to buy a new apartment?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah.  A new flat, I'm looking into.  Hopefully, with this week and the US Open and everything, I'll be able to get something nice.


Q. Have you not passed the marker yet?  Do you still need more to get the flat?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  No, I don't think I need more to get a flat.  I think I have more than enough.  That's not a question.


Q. Sorry if this was asked before I came in.  Would you talk about the start.

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I thought I didn't serve the corners well enough.  Todd is a very good returner.  If you don't start off by serving the corners, he's going to take advantage of it.  He hit good returns.  Then I started getting my accuracy on my serve a little bit more.  Almost got back into that set.  He was serving 5-4, Love-30. Played one good half volley, missed a couple returns.  Got good after that.  He had a little bit of a low.  You could  see him drop a little in the second set.  When he held that game, Love-40, first game in the third, he went up in his mental and psychological side of him.


Q. Do you think he was fatigued?  He's had a long week.

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Definitely, there's no question. He had a very good Davis Cup with Mark Woodforde.  They played some good doubles.  He didn't play too far into the US Open, so I think the time zone might have been a little bit of a factor there for him.


Q. Doesn't look like Brian is here.

GREG RUSEDSKI:  No.


Q. Are you kind of having a bit of solitary --

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Lucy is not here.  Brian is not here.  Nobody's here this week.  I'm on my own this week. So I'm having -- actually, the first Saturday, Sunday, Monday have been great because I've had some time to myself and the phone hasn't rung.  It's been quite pleasant.


Q. Ideally, would you like this to be a couple weeks later?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, maybe.  But it's good practice to get ready for the indoor season, Basel and Vienna, which are two big events.  If you do well here, not only do you earn good money, you get the practice for the indoor season right away.  That is a benefit for me. 


Q. Did the fact that he's been playing in America on hardcourts; flew in here yesterday, does that in a way put more pressure on you because it sort of encourages you to think you should win?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Todd has a good record against me. I was wrong, John, when I talked to you.  He's two wins to one on me.  He beat me in Coral Springs 6-3, 6-2 in the finals.  He beat me at Queen's 4-1.  I beat him in Singapore 3-2.  We've evened the series at two now, which is nice.  He's a very good player.  You don't get to the semis of Wimbledon by fluke.  This court is very low bouncing.


Q. Did you see anything of Kafelnikov?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I did.  Kafelnikov played extremely well.  I thought he returned exceptionally well, hit his ground shots well.  It's going to be a good test for me again indoors, a good session.  I'm looking forward to it.


Q. What's the head-to-head?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  1-Love, Adelaide '96 he won 3-3, I believe.  I don't think we've played apart from that, if I can remember.  That was outdoors and a little slower.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT