US OPEN
September 6, 1997
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How does it feel?

GREG RUSEDSKI: It feels great to be able to win a match in the semis of a Grand Slam
when Jonas is playing such tremendous tennis. The both of us, I thought, played
particularly well. It could have gone either way.

Q. Was there any chance that your sore throat, your cold was going to stop you from
playing today?

GREG RUSEDSKI: No. I was going to play no matter what today. I've got to keep the
questions a little short because my doctor told me just to take it easy, not to try to
speak too much.

Q. Did you wake up early this morning?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I woke up this morning probably about 8:30, turned on the tele and
watched. It was very sad. It was nice in the respect how the nation paid tribute to Di,
how much the nation cared for her. I mean, I thought her brother gave a tremendous speech.


Q. What kind of birthday is this for you then?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I mean, it's sad in a lot of respects because of what happened to
Princess Diana. I'm going to celebrate my birthday next weekend.

Q. Greg, you went to see a throat specialist?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yes.

Q. I was wondering, was it a female or male?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Female.

Q. Her name is?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Dr. Gwen, I don't know how to spell her last name, I think Korovin.

Q. How did that come about, Greg?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I just called up the hotel. They knew her. She took me right away. She
was here supporting me here today and will be in the Finals as well. She took time out to
help me out, which is really kind of her.

Q. Is there a diagnosis for what you have? Do you have a flu, viral infection?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Just an infection. It was hard to breathe yesterday. She relieved a lot
of the pain. When I got on court, it was fine.

Q. In some ways, the British fans haven't embraced you because you've come from Canada
to Britain. Now what do you think the reaction will be?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I think they embraced me from the start. I don't know where you're
getting that from. From the beginning, when I came over in '95, I lost my first two
matches. I was in the papers called a True Brit because I lost two in a row (laughter). I
think they've been extremely supportive. The press have been very kind. The people have
always wrote me letters of encouragement. Even in the locker, I had people call from up
Leeds and all over England to wish me well on such a sad day, which was very kind.

Q. Wasn't there a time yesterday when you thought you might not be able to play?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I was going to play no matter. Doesn't matter. In a Grand Slam, doesn't
matter whether you're ill, you have an infection. If you can step on the court, you play,
because you don't get these opportunities very often.

Q. Greg, the first set you couldn't have wished for a better start.

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah. I thought I played tremendously well. Jonas missed a few volleys.
I managed to take advantage of that. But then Jonas brought it up a level and didn't make
any unforced errors. He played two very good sets. I just tried to hang in there. I think
the Love-40 game, which I came back to win, was the key to the match today.

Q. Has he ever returned better than he did in those two sets against Jonas?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, he has. I was expecting it. I just didn't want it to bother me.

Q. Did you think he had a chance when it was two sets to one there?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, I always believed. I had my family here supporting me, encouraging
me on. I always felt I had a chance. If he was going to return like that, then too good.
But I stayed in there and it paid off.

Q. Greg, in the fourth set, you had two very key net cords go your way. One that sort
of jumped over his racquet. Remember?

GREG RUSEDSKI: That was at nil-nil. So that wasn't as big.

Q. The other one?

GREG RUSEDSKI: The other one at breakpoint definitely was a key to the match.

Q. Was there a little sense of some divine intervention? Were you thinking, "This
is meant to be today"?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I would have lost the match, then I probably wouldn't have.

Q. But you won. The Love-40 game, what were you thinking?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, when I was Love-40 the last time, I played a bad volley at deuce.
He played a good point. I knew I could come back.

Q. After all your struggles, all your matches, how does it feel to reach your first
Grand Slam final?

GREG RUSEDSKI: It's very satisfying. I'm just hoping -- I'm looking forward to
continuing. Now I can talk about winning the tournament maybe because I'm in the Finals.
So one more match to go.

Q. How will you prepare for tomorrow?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Just as I have always. Just have a light hit. Just do the normal things
I've been doing everyday really.

Q. Is it at all bittersweet that back home if there were better times, the country
would be probably going wild for you, and yet everything is sort of subdued and deflected?
Is that a little tough at all?

GREG RUSEDSKI: No, not at all. The tragedy with Princess Diana, I mean, you can't
compare the two things. That's the least important thing for the country and for the world
at the moment. To compare the two -- 

Q. I'm not talking about the country or the world. I'm talking about you.

GREG RUSEDSKI: No. I don't think it takes anything away from what I've accomplished or
done. I'm just proud maybe I can put a smile on some people's face because of the tennis.
I mean, you can't compare the two things.

Q. Tomorrow, do you think you might be over the worst of the throat?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, the doctor looked at me and she said it looks pretty positive. So
I have to wake up tomorrow morning. I'm going to play no matter what.

Q. Absolutely. What type of infection is it?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Just a bacterial infection.

Q. Respiratory? Strep throat?

GREG RUSEDSKI: No.

Q. Throat infection? Any fever?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I'm not a doctor.

Q. Any fever?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I had a bit of a fever. I seem fine today.

Q. How difficult was it to manage your emotions? What were some of your emotions
running through you before the match? 

GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, I was just trying to focus on the tennis and not think of too many
other things. Just went out there and played each point at a time. It's a boring cliche,
but that's what you have to do.

Q. Greg, how long did you watch the service this morning?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I watched about an hour this morning.

Q. Is this the sort of night where you'll go back to your hotel and watch all the
replays and specials about Diana? Have you almost had enough of that now?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I don't know what I'm going to do in the evening. I haven't decided in
that respect. I think it was a lovely service. I mean, it's such a tragedy. I don't know
what else to say, to be honest with you.

Q. Did you cry after you won? You looked really teary-eyed?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I didn't cry. I was pretty emotional and pretty pleased.

Q. Greg, before the hardcourt season started, you practiced with Pete Sampras for about
a week, I believe.

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, in Saddlebrook.

Q. Did that help you get where you are now?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, I think the work I've been doing with Brian has helped out a lot.
I've known Pete for about five years now. When we practice together, I can take a few sets
in practice, but that doesn't mean anything until you get on the match court.

Q. Can you talk about the two contrasting players you'll come up against?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I mean, Michael is probably the best competitor there is in the game of
tennis today. He's won some very difficult five-set matches. He knows Sampras is out, he
wants to win a major Championship again. I'm going to have to serve well and attack and
not get into the long baseline rallies. If I do that, I'll be in trouble. I'm just going
to have to be a little more aggressive on the returns and go for more, just keep on coming
to the net. Both of us are just going to come forward.

Q. Before, Sampras had been head-and-tails above everyone else. There seems to be a
group of you guys doing better.

GREG RUSEDSKI: I think the players 1 to 20 now, there's not a huge difference. Fair
enough, Sampras, with all the titles he's won. The depth of the game is getting stronger
and stronger. I mean, 1700 points, which I think is the 19th or 20th player in the world,
used to be about 11 in the world. The depth is tremendous at that top level.

Q. Why do you think that that is true?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I think players are improving, wanting to get better. It's becoming a
little bit like the golf Tour. I think The Tour needs to market the players better,
because there's going to be different faces all the time winning titles. People have to
know them better.

Q. Are you fascinated, as a lot of people are, with you and Venus Williams coming out
of relatively nowhere?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Everybody's known Venus for about six years now. She hasn't come out of
relatively nowhere. I think I'm probably about 95 with my good Wimbledon showing. I think
in Europe I'm better known than America. At the US Open, I've never won a match before.
It's not abnormal for people not to know me over here.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT