US OPEN
September 3, 1997
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You looked very cool and composed out there.

GREG RUSEDSKI: I didn't feel it at 5-4 in the final set tiebreaker. I think I got a
little bit nervous. I kind of let a volley go I should have taken in the air. After that,
Richard played a good point and I got unlucky on that. Kept it together. Fortunately for
me I played my two best points of the match down 5-6 in the tiebreaker. I thought it was
going into a fourth set for sure. I still kind of feel like I'm still in the fourth set
right now, rather than having won.

Q. How difficult was it in those conditions?

GREG RUSEDSKI: It was extremely difficult. I mean, it was very windy out there. Both of
us started off by getting broken right away. I was pleased that I got the initiative right
back by breaking straightaway. I think I handled the conditions better, made Richard play
a few more volleys than he made me play. I got a lot more free points from him. I think I
managed to handle the condition a little better. 

Q. What kind of adjustment did you make because of the wind?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I just blocked my returns, tried to chip them low, take a little shorter
backswing on some of my ground shots on returns, not go for too much. Because the wind
will play havoc with the ball sometimes if you don't put a lot of pace on it. A few lobs,
he missed quite a few easy overheads sometimes as well.

Q. Greg, you've never won a match ever. Is this something about the new stadium? How do
you explain?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I don't know. Maybe it's the new stadium. Maybe it's the new coach. I
don't have a clue, to be honest with you. Hopefully it can continue.

Q. Are you stunned at all?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, getting to the quarterfinals, I thought I could do that. Getting
on to the semis is a little more surprising for me.

Q. I heard you say, "I still can't believe it." From that moment, the minute
the match ended to right now, has it started to seep?

GREG RUSEDSKI: No, it started a little. I'm still on such a cloud, I can't believe I'm
in the semis. I guess when I get up and have to play on Saturday, I guess I'll realize I'm
there.

Q. Do you like the idea of two days' break? 

GREG RUSEDSKI: Not particularly, but I think your adrenaline is going enough that if
you win on Saturday, it will be fine for Sunday. I think it would be better like at
Wimbledon, Friday and Sunday. I think it's because of the TV rights or something to that
extent that they do it.

Q. Greg, are you still struggling with some parts of the British media, whether it's
print or broadcast media, to be fully accepted as a Britton?

GREG RUSEDSKI: (laughter).

Q. It was Monica Seles.

GREG RUSEDSKI: No, I don't feel like it at all. Right from the start in '95 when I
first came over, the press has treated me extremely well. They've always been very
courteous, very polite. I think they've accepted me, the public as well.

Q. I know you answered this a couple days ago, but has it been a tough couple of days?

GREG RUSEDSKI: It's been difficult. I mean with the tragedy with Princess Diana and
everything. The whole country is in mourning right now. I mean, my prayers are with her
family and the two children, William and Harry. I think it's been a difficult period for
everyone. It's going to be more difficult on Saturday having to play a match while the
funeral is on. So it's going to be very, very difficult, I think, in that respect. 

Q. Greg, can I follow up on that. Obviously it's her funeral on Saturday, it's your
birthday on Saturday, it's the biggest match of your career. How are you going to cope
with all those emotions?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I think it's going to be a difficult task. But I'm just going to go out
there and try my best, and hopefully I'll be able to handle the situation. I mean, my
prayers are just going to be with her family and the kids. I'll be thinking of her and her
family while I'll be out there. Hopefully try to do my best on the tennis court for them.

Q. Where does your family live?

GREG RUSEDSKI: My parents right now are living in Canada.

Q. Greg, you haven't dropped a set here. To what do you attribute your success?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, it's a little bit of luck. It's always been positive, taking
opportunities when they arise, just trying to be positive and not letting things get down
when things go against you. I think that's really helped me a lot in this two-week period
so far.

Q. Do you feel like you've arrived?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, I think I arrived in San Jose when I beat Chang and Agassi in a
row, then was up a set on Sampras. I really felt like I belonged, I could get to the top
of the game. I think that gave me a lot of confidence.

Q. Would you like to meet Korda or Bjorkman?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I think whoever wins, it doesn't really make a difference. They're both
great players. Jonas Bjorkman is playing the best tennis of his life. Both return
extremely well. I'm going to have to serve well. I'm going to have to do a lot of things
positively.

Q. Greg, where were you when Korda beat Sampras? Did that win change your thinking?

GREG RUSEDSKI: No, I don't think it changed my thinking. I practice with Pete a lot. If
I had to play Pete in the semis, I know what I'd have to do out there because we played a
lot of practice sets together. It's definitely, probably, maybe a little bit easier having
to play maybe Korda or Bjorkman. Korda proved that he can play as well as the No. 1 player
in the world, or better, in that match against Sampras.

Q. Do you remember where you were on the Saturday of the semifinals last year?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I was in Bournemouth getting ready for the event, playing on clay. It's
a nice change (laughter).

Q. Were you watching on television?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I watched a little bit of Ivanisevic and Sampras, but I didn't watch
that much. 

Q. So much of winning a Grand Slam is going through two weeks of heavily emotional
ups-and-downs, playing great one day, just muddling through the next day, still winning.
You just went through an extremely emotional Grand Slam in London a couple months ago.
What did you learn at Wimbledon about dealing with your own emotions?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, I think I was extremely disappointed in myself, losing the
quarterfinals to Cedric Pioline. I think I was physically and mentally exhausted. I didn't
know how to handle the situation. From today's experience, I learned a lot. I used that to
my advantage, which is definitely positive. I learned it doesn't matter how tired or
fatigued you are out there, you have to try to be fresh and have to be hungry to want to
win every point. There's no excuses, because nobody remembers who lost in the
quarterfinals, they only remember who usually wins or keeps on going on.

Q. Greg, I know you will say that you were trying to take it one match at a time. But
do you in yourself feel there's any reason why you couldn't win here on Sunday?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I'm not going to go that far yet. I'm not going to talk about winning
the tournament until Saturday. If I win on Saturday, then I'll discuss it at the moment. I
can't get ahead of myself.

Q. I'll ask you again (laughter). Greg, how much easier is it for you to play in a
Grand Slam tournament where the eyes of the entire country aren't on every shot you're
hitting?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, I think it helps myself and Tim a lot at Wimbledon. It gets us
through the tough matches. I would have probably, if I was playing at the US Open against
Stark, down 5-3 in the fifth, I probably wouldn't have won that match. I think Tim and
myself handle the spotlight well. I think I love the support. I feed off the crowd. I
think every year I'm becoming a better player. I think if I was in the semis at Wimbledon,
I think I'd be able to feed off them more and it would help.

Q. You mentioned the crowd. How big of a factor was the crowd out there today during
the tiebreak?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I think it was interesting. I was trying to stay focused. I got a little
bit nervous. Some of the crowd were behind me, shouting for me. The encouragement really
helped. I think that made a big difference for me.

Q. Princess Diana's funeral is being shown live here on Saturday morning. Will you
watch that or try to keep away from that?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I think I'll probably watch because, I mean, it's a sad occasion. I
mean, she was a great humanitarian, did a lot of great things for the world. Just out of
respect, I'll probably watch.

Q. How much do you understand the fact that that's going to be going on Saturday, no
matter what you do Saturday, it's going to have a different feeling over there? The
excitement is going to be different. How much do you understand that?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I understand that completely. I mean, tennis is not even important
compared to that matter - to that tragedy. I mean, the tennis is so secondary, it's not
really relevant. I mean, it's -- you can't even compare that. I mean, it's two different
things.

Q. You have two nights off now. Having a relationship with an actress, does that
dictate certain types of evenings? Which actress is this? Does that mean that you're going
to the theater tonight or tomorrow night?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Might go tomorrow night.

Q. Possibly against your will?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I don't go anywhere against my will.

Q. We'd like to introduce to you our member of the paparazzi. 

GREG RUSEDSKI: I might catch a show with Lucy, if we have time to go out. I enjoy it
when she takes me. Who knows. We've got to do certain different things once in a while, as
well.

Q. How much do you attribute your improvement to working with Brian Teacher?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I think there's a whole combination of things that has helped. Brian has
been very good technically. He's helped me relax more and become a better player, so he's
helped a lot. I have a new physical trainer, Steve Green, has helped my movement a lot on
the court. I think my rivalry with Tim helps as well. The two of us push each other. One
wants to get ahead of the other. I think it's the three things combined. Brian has had a
big influence on that.

Q. Can you speak specifically about California, even practicing on Christmas Day? What
got that intensity going during that time?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, I think we just practice four hours a day, hit backhands, returned
serves, things we had to do. I think the work has paid off now. You just always have to
keep working. I missed the first event of the year, never hit so many topspin backhands
that I had terrible blisters on my hands. I think it's paid off.

Q. I think we asked you this at Wimbledon. But what do you think it would take for you
to do to surpass Tim in the hearts of the British people?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, I think I have a lot of people who support myself and Tim. I have
letters of encouragement all the time. I think the public supports both of us. They're
very fair. They treat us, I think, as equals. I feel that way.

Q. Greg, this is undoubtedly the high point of your career so far. Was that defeat in
the first round here against Dreekmann last year possibly the low point?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, I definitely wasn't smiling after the match. I wasn't too happy. I
played probably some of my worst tennis I possibly could. I had a good opportunity to do
well. It's just nice to come here and move on and do well.

Q. When you look at the stats of today's match and saw you served only two aces in a
match, does that sort of give you hope, "Okay, I'm no longer relying on my big serve,
even if I'm not thundering down an ace a game, still right up there with the rest of my
game?"

GREG RUSEDSKI: I think it definitely gives me a lot of confidence. It served smartly
today rather than trying to hit the hard serves. When it's a windy day, you need to get a
lot of first serves in. I beat up on his backhand side, which really brought a lot of
benefits today.

Q. Do you think opponents, because your serve is so powerful, have they looked over
your groundstrokes and your improvements in your groundstrokes?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I think I'm getting a lot more respect from players these days. By
making my opponents play more balls, I'm getting easier service games. That's really helps
a lot for me. I think players respect me. I mean, when I lost to Sampras in the Finals of
San Jose, he gave me a very nice compliment, said that's one of the best sets anybody
played against him. I think the players are starting to take a little bit more notice of
the other parts of my game.

Q. Did you notice that you hit a 142 mile per hour serve?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yes, and I lost the point as well.

Q. What does that say to you?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, you don't need -- I'd rather have an ace at 70 miles an hour than
lose a point and hit a serve at 142. You have to learn how to mix it up a little bit.

Q. Did it take time for you to discover a new philosophy about your game of tennis,
going from a big serve to being a broader kind of player?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, I think I always wanted to put the work in. By putting the work in
in December, to take another step forward, that was very important. 

Q. Brian had a lot of, how do I describe it.

GREG RUSEDSKI: Had a lot of influence in that respect.

Q. Was it hard for you? Did you seek him out because you wanted to change or did he
convince you?

GREG RUSEDSKI: No. I wanted a coach who had played at the top of the game, knew what it
took to get to the top. He won the Australian Open. He got to as high as 7 in the world.
He knows the pressure and how to handle it. That sort of experience is invaluable.

Q. Do you consider today an upset?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, I've beaten Richard four to five times, so I was confident going
in. This is a Grand Slam event, Richard definitely is going to be more motivated out
there. He knows he's got a good opportunity to win the title, having Sampras being knocked
out. For me, I think it was harder than any of the other five matches we've had to play.

Q. You're a very emotional player. Do you sometimes get overpumped, and has that worked
to the detriment of your game?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I think I've been handling that very well. That's why I'm having such a
good run at the moment. I'm keeping my emotions in check until maybe after match point is
over. Sometimes I used to do it before match point was over, get all this emotion out,
then I'd be shaking hands having lost the match.

Q. You just said that Krajicek knew that he had an opportunity to win the tournament
now that Sampras is out. How about you?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I'm not looking that far yet. Taking it one match at time. An old
cliche. I'm going to stay with that one.

Q. When do you think you'll be celebrating your birthday?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Probably next weekend, I think. I think in a week's time.

Q. And you'll go to Bournemouth whatever happens here?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Whatever happens. I've made a commitment to play in Bournemouth. We
don't have many tournaments at home. I don't want to let down the public who bought
tickets and come to see the event. I think it's very important to support your home
tournaments.

Q. Brian has a famously laid-back attitude. Are you going to be leaning on that more
than ever given the distractions?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I'm going to try my best to. Brian, it's kind of funny, because
sometimes I have to find him in the locker room instead of him finding me before the
match. He's so laid back sometimes.

Q. Do you find him asleep?

GREG RUSEDSKI: He's probably doing some Yoga position in the corner.

Q. Greg, you've got the two days now without playing, which is a bit unusual,
particularly if there's no rain delay. Aside from maybe a little bit of entertainment,
theater, what have you, how will you be for the next two days?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I'm not really going to change anything much. I'm just going to relax,
probably just eat at the normal restaurants I have been, really take it easy. You don't
want to put anything new into the equation when it seems to be working. So I'm not going
to be doing anything too different.

Q. When you would work with Brian in Los Angeles, what facility or facilities would you
work at?

GREG RUSEDSKI: We just worked at some of his friends' houses, that people had courts
on, Riviera Country Club, wherever we could get a court. 

Q. Has this already surpassed goals that you might have had at the beginning of the
year when you were doing that work in LA?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Definitely has. In the beginning, in LA, after putting in all that hard
work, to come out and lose in the first two events in the first round was very difficult.
I'd rather have spent Christmas at home, been able to be with friends and family, which
would have been nice. But in the end, it's paid off. It's been nice.

Q. Thinking back to when you were growing up, watching maybe the US Open on TV, what
memories do you have from those times? Anything that particularly stands out?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I remember when I was playing, Connors' run. That was unbelievable when
he was, I believe 39 or 40. He got to the semis. He won every single five-set match
somehow. He came out. I used to love watching McEnroe win the title. I think it was a
great match he played against Gerulaitis one year. There have been many great matches.
When I was growing up, McEnroe was on the tele, that's who I would watch. It was always
good for me.

Q. You mentioned Sampras, the compliment, you also mentioned the more respect from the
people in the locker room. Can you just talk a little bit about how you felt early on with
the ridicule that was coming out about your game?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Ridicule? I don't know if people gave me any ridicule about my game.

Q. They didn't give you respect.

GREG RUSEDSKI: I think a lot of players gave me respect for my serve. They thought,
well, if I get a serve back, I have a good opportunity to win that match. I think they
came out eager, because they knew they would have to get my serve back. I think players
respected me a lot. I think they respect me more because my game is complete. I don't
think there was any sort of thing as ridicule.

Q. You have been striving to make your game overall better?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I've just tried to make my game better because I want to try to get to
the top of the game. The only way to do that is to improve your ground shots, your return
of serve, become a complete player. Even Sampras when he won the Open when he was 19 was
not a complete player yet. Now he's the greatest player to ever play. He's worked hard and
continued to become better.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT