US OPEN
September 1, 1997
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Was it easy to keep your focus? 
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, I think it was difficult with everything that's happened the past
few days. I mean, with Princess Diana, I'd just like to send my prayers with her and her
family and her children. I mean, it's a terrible tragedy. I just want to give my prayers
for her and her family. 
 
Q. Was that the reason for the ribbon?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Exactly, just out of respect, prayers for her family. 
 
Q. Do you think your winning today, what you've been able to do, could do the rest of
the week, could do anything to help your country or the people back home at this time?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, I think it could help a little bit. But, I mean, it's just such a
tragedy. I mean, Princess Di is and was one of the most important, the most popular ladies
in the world, with the humanitarian causes she worked with AIDS, land mines. She's going
to be missed tremendously.  
 
Q. But, I mean, to take people's mind off of it?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I hope I can help out a little bit. I mean, it's very difficult. 
 
Q. Greg, you seem to be averaging about 115 miles on the radar gun. Were you having a
little bit in reserve if you needed it or not?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, I think I had a little bit in reserve. I wanted to mix it up on
Daniel because he likes to block back his returns. I think that's what he did extremely
well against Philippoussis. That's why he had a victory over him. 
 
Q. What you're saying really is that tennis is slightly --
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: -- secondary. 
 
Q. -- insignificant compared to what's happened?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Exactly, that's what I'm saying. 
 
Q. How have you been able to, you know -- was it difficult?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I think it was very difficult because, I mean, two nights ago, 10:30 at
night, we get in, turn on CNN, watch for about three or four hours. Next thing you find
out in the morning, it's just -- I mean, it's very sad. I mean, you don't expect those
things to happen. I mean, it's a feeling of shock because Princess Di is a person that you
don't think these sort of things can ever happen to. I mean, you've grown up watching her
from the royal wedding, from everything throughout her whole life. I think it's just more
shock and disbelief than anything else. Because you think she's kind of on a plateau where
nothing could possibly happen to her. 
 
Q. Have you ever met her?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I never had the opportunity or chance to. But I have a great deal of
respect for her and everything she's done for our country and for the world. 
 
Q. Could you make even more of an effort on keeping your focus, on playing the match
because of what's happening?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I think it's difficult, but I managed to do it, I think. It's difficult
to go out there and try to play tennis, but I managed to keep my mind on it. It turned out
well today. 
 
Q. You play the winner of Mantilla/Krajicek. Have you played either of them? What's
your record?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Mantilla I lost to in Australia in four sets. Richard, I have beaten
four to five times. Last time I met Richard was in New Haven two weeks ago. 
 
Q. How would you explain that, because a lot of that time he's been ranked in the Top
10.
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: We just match up well. We always play 7-6 or 7-5 in the third. For some
reason, I always seem to pull out in front. So it's one or two points here or there that I
manage to win. I don't know why. Sometimes you match up well with certain players and you
manage to take that little edge. 
 
Q. Do you think reaching the quarters here is more -- is a better accomplishment for
you than at Wimbledon where your serve can really just carry you through? Here you have to
play more shots?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, I think it's two different sort of things. Because at Wimbledon,
you're under much more scrutiny and under much more pressure to perform. The British
public expects you to get to the quarterfinals or better. Over here, it's a little easier
maybe because they don't have the same expectations. They expect you to do well, but not
the same fanfare. 
 
Q. How about your own playing?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: From my own perspective, I'm extremely pleased. Before coming here, I
never won a match. To get to the quarterfinals is a good feeling. Hopefully just the
beginning. 
 
Q. Last three matches have had kind of a familiar plot about them, tiebreak, get ahead
in the tiebreak, then you have two dominant sets? 
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I was pleased with the tiebreaker. Was down two-nil. Managed to win the
next seven. Plot thickens. Two early breaks. I missed a forehand I probably should have
made. Overall you can't complain when you win in three sets. 
 
Q. Can you get a feel for this tournament yet in terms of how things are going, chances
to push through?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I think I've got a good opportunity to go further and to make it in the
semifinal. But I have to take it one match at a time really. Sampras is definitely the
favorite. Just go one day at a time really. 
 
Q. Greg, you made the quarters here and the quarters at Wimbledon, made the Top 20.
This is a serious question. Do you think you would have done the same thing if you stayed
a Canadian and represented Canada?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: That's a good question. I don't know if that would have happened. I
think with Tim and myself pushing each other on, I think it definitely has helped both of
us out. I mean, the decision I made was a personal decision. I think it's helped in every
respect. 
 
Q. Who do you pick, Greg, out of Krajicek and Mantilla?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I think probably Krajicek, I'd have to favor, because of the bigger
serve. Mantilla is an unbelievable fighter. He's not going to go down easily. If Richard
doesn't serve well, Mantilla might win. I'd have to put Richard as the favorite on paper
at the moment. 
 
Q. That was a painful day in more days ways in one in Australia, the heat and
everything?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I don't even want to remember that match. I thought I was going to pass
out about three or four times. After the second seat, Teach thought it was all over. Just
was really exhausted from the heat. 
 
Q. I mean, of course it was a very, very, very hot day. Was it also him having the
ability to run you around the court?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I think he ran me around the court, he returned extremely well. I didn't
volley well enough. I think I'm a much more complete player now than I was then. Just have
to see how it goes. 
 
Q. You obviously are aware of Vacek's temperament, can be -- was it kind of a question
of you waiting for him to blow a bit?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, I think we both felt the humidity out there. I think that got to
him a little bit in the second and third set because he stopping serving and volleying. I
think he might have gotten a little bit fatigued from the heat. That just helped me
because then I could get the point from the back of the court and managed to break a few
times. 
 
Q. He seemed to drill you early on. Couple stares at the net.
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I didn't really look into that sort of thing. That's the way Daniel
likes to be. I mean, I just have a laugh out there, try my best really. 
 
Q. Just smile it off?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah. That's not my personality to stare down the other person too
often. 
 
Q. Well, in Kiev.
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: That's different. They insulted me. It's different. 
 
Q. Greg, just thinking back to coming in here, obviously you had done pretty well
anyway, but coming back to the Open, you had three first-round defeats. Did you imagine
that you would maybe do well here? Were you thinking, "Here we go again"?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I was really positive coming into the event. I mean, after Wimbledon, my
goal was to get to the Top 20 and try to make the quarterfinals of the US Open. I managed
to achieve these two things. Hopefully I can go further than that. So it's going
positively at the moment. 
 
Q. Would you say this is your probably third best surface after carpet and grass? 
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, we'll see how it goes. Might be my favorite surface after this
week (laughter). 
 
Q. Are you aware that this is likely to have gotten you into the Grand Slam Cup?
There's a bit of cash involved there.
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: That will help me to buy a new flat, so that will be nice, which is
nice. I mean, it shows the top Grand Slam finishers. It's quite an honor to be in that
tournament because Tim was in there last year, did extremely well, making the semis. I
think I'd love to play in that event just to see how I match up with the best players in
the world. I think Sampras is probably going to play, Rafter, Kuerten, all the Grand Slam
winners. It will be a nice experience. 
 
Q. Do you think you're in now?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I think I'm in now, with two quarterfinals, unless something very
strange happens. I think there's a new rule this year with one wildcard, so only 15 direct
acceptances. 
 
Q. Wonder who is going to get that?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I don't know (laughter). Could start with a B. 
 
Q. Berasategui?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: All right. That would be fine. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT