US OPEN
August 28, 1997
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Greg, after a pretty tight start in the match, you took over, you were playing
really free at the end, hitting all sorts of shots? 
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, I was pleased with the way I played today. Difficult sort of match
to play. I got here at 9:45 in the morning; you don't start your match till 7:00 in the
evening. You're going to start off a little tighter, harder to get going in the beginning.
I think Marcos played a very good first set. I was pleased to come out with a three-set
win. Can't complain when that happens. 
 
Q. You didn't go back to the hotel?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: No, not at all. I walked outside, I walked up and down the stairs about
50 times going from the restaurant back and forth, then I went to practice about three or
four times, and every time I walked outside, it was raining. So just about the time I was
going to get on the court, it started raining. At least I got a little bit of warm-up
before, so that was nice. 
 
Q. Do you think a year ago you would have been as calm as you were in the end today?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: No. I think I've matured a lot as a player in that respect, even with
this sort of situation, with the delay. Last year I played Dreekmann in the evening; I had
a long delay as well. I didn't handle it as well as I have now. I think I'm just maturing
now as a person and player. So that's really helped me. 
 
Q. Is Brian a help in situations like that?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: He's so relaxed. I mean, half the time I'm trying to find him
(laughter). He's unbelievable. I mean, he can go about anywhere and he'll like do
stretching or just be relaxing, whatever. He's such a laid back individual. 
 
Q. Greg, how much do you know about your next opponent?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I don't even have a clue who I'm playing, to be honest with you. 
 
Q. Knippschild.
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, it's going to be a difficult match. He played extremely well
against Tim at Queen's. I think he's got very good returns; he goes for his shots. He's
got a good first serve. His second serve, you can attack it a little bit. If I'm playing
well, I have a good opportunity to progress. 
 
Q. You haven't played him before?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Never played him before, so it will be the first time. I got a preview
at Queen's a little bit. He must be playing well. He beat Pescariu three straight? 
 
Q. Yes.
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Got to be striking the ball well. He's going to go out there with
nothing to lose. 
 
Q. Took a few of us by surprise at Queen's. You know what's coming now?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Exactly. He's a very talented player. I think he prefers maybe the
claycourts. He's shown he can play on grass as well. He's just going to go for his shots,
so I'm going to have to start off serving well and hopefully get on top of him early, take
advantage of that. 
 
Q. The way you're playing now, does that make you wonder why this was a problem place
for you for those years?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, it's an new facility now, so I don't have to think of the past
(laughter). I mean, the setup is much nicer now. I mean, the courts, they're a little bit
slower. I think they've changed the ball a little bit. It's just easier around here now.
You don't feel as claustrophobic. They have more space for the players in the sitting room
areas. It's just a nicer-run event. The air-conditioning, it isn't minus 50 degrees. 
 
Q. It is with us, mate.
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: It isn't with us, so that's nice. 
 
Q. I mean, was it a place that got you a little bit?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah. I didn't really enjoy being here that much, to be honest with you.
I think I've gotten used to it. I enjoy New York City overall, but I never really enjoyed
coming to the Open as much. I think I'm changing things this week. 
 
Q. Was another good example of how you matured the way at the start of that second set
you had a couple of chances on his serve when he was Love-30, but got away from it, you
didn't panic, just carried on, waiting for the chance to get the break?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Exactly. I think that's just more my maturing, not getting impatient,
waiting for my chances. Even though I went to a tiebreaker in the first set, I thought I
played a good tiebreaker, except for letting one volley go. I mean, I was very pleased
that I really took the initiative in the tiebreaker. I think that set the tone for the
match today. 
 
Q. You said you didn't have a clue about Knippschild. Have you made a conscious
decision not to look at the draw?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: No. I'm just taking it one match at a time really. I'm just trying to
stay in the present. Like I'm going to go home, I won't even think about it until the time
the match comes along. I think that's what's better with myself. I'm not worrying if I
play this person, then that person, I'll do this and that. I'm trying to live by the
moment, more or less. 
 
Q. What persuaded you to have Brian Teacher as your coach?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, my agent, John Mayotte, called up Brad Gilbert, asked him to
suggest someone to work with me. Brian and Brad are very good friends. I got together with
Brian in St. Polten last year. 
 
Q. Where?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: St. Polten in Austria, the tournament before the French Open. Since
that, things have been going well for the past year. 
 
Q. Do you think he's helping you any?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, he must be doing something right (laughter). I think when we
started, I was around 50 or 60. Now I'm 20. I think all the work is starting to pay off. 
 
Q. What specifically has he done for you?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I think he's helped me with my return of serve, my ground shots, my
mental approach out there. I'm just getting some of his relaxed sort of characteristics,
getting laid back. I still don't do all those Yoga positions he does, but I'm trying. 
 
Q. You said you don't want to look at the draw. But the fact that Goran is gone has an
effect, doesn't it?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, it definitely opens it up, there's no question about it. For some
strange reason, I've lost to Goran every time, 20-18 in the third set tiebreaker, 8-6 in
the third set tiebreaker. Maybe it's a blessing in disguise that he's not there, give me
an opportunity to continue in the event. 
 
Q. You spell your agent's name M-a-c?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: M-a-y-o-t-t-e, like Tim. That's his brother John. 
 
Q. Are you getting that feel-good factor out of two Brits doing well?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I think Tim and I are starting to have a little bit of a trend here. I
did well and he did well at Wimbledon. I'm doing well at the US Open and he's doing well
at the US Open. I think it's only good for British tennis. Keeps it in the papers, keeps
you busy as well (laughter). I think it's just good overall. I mean, it's nice to see Sam
doing well as well, having qualified and won a first round match. Maybe it's not going so
well this evening, but she's accomplished her goal here for the Top 100, which is nice as
well. Things are getting more positive. 
 
Q. You had a nice little cheer squad, too.
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Yes, it was very nice, the support, the crowd. Very tremendous. Very
vocal, behind me from the start till the end, which was very nice. 
 
Q. You say as a new facility, that was rather a noisy court, wasn't it, with trains and
trolleys being dragged around the back?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I really didn't hear it that much. I was just focused on my match. I was
just concentrated. I think that's the difference. I'm not letting outside distractions
bother me as much. 
 
Q. What was that rather delectable looking liquid you were drinking?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: It's a secret (laughter). I'm just kidding. It's just a carbohydrate
drink that I just make up. It gives you energy. I usually have my orange juice that I have
with sugar that I take. If I took it in this humidity, I think I'd get a little sick on
court. It's just like hydrofuel, which works well. 
 
Q. Looks horrible.
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Tastes horrible, but it does the job. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT