THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 22, 1996
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








GREG RUSEDSKI:  Played an absolutely shocking game. Missed four easy forehands that I think a club player could probably put in the court no problem.  So, I am just pleased to get a win.  It was surprising at 3-All in the second set, Love-30, he twisted his ankle.  Looked pretty bad.  Then all of a sudden he picked up his game, his level rose about 50%.  All of a sudden his, intensity and his focus and striking the ball was much better, so I was very pleased to get that win in two sets. 


Q.  Is that as good a tiebreak as you can play?  You really played tight from 3-1 down. 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think I played a very good tiebreaker.  I haven't won too many the last little while so I was very pleased with that and my focus.  It is always nice to get a win when the last two weeks you lose in the first round, last two tournaments, so I am pleased with that.  Hopefully, I can continue the role, hopefully. 


Q.  Could you just give a brief little few thoughts on the kid? 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think he is a very good player.  He has got a lot of talent.  He is a little bit raw from the start.  It was strange, he wasn't putting in many first serves, but then after a while, I mean, everything seemed to work.  He has got a very good backhand.  He serves good.  His volleys are good, but I mean, it is weird.  It was like two different players I saw today.  For the first set and a half, I thought, well, I am pretty much in control besides playing that bad game.  Then all of a sudden he twisted his ankle.  It was like a different player all of a sudden.  So it is kind of hard to tell from this one match. 


Q.  Were you quite concerned when you went down in that tiebreaker then that this might go into a third set? 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, usually you don't want to go into a third set.  I think the momentum of the crowd was behind him, so, for him, with his injury when you have a twisted ankle, the day playing is all right.  The next day you come back, it is usually not so good.  You usually have to retire or default.  So I was pleased to finish it off in two. 


Q.  Do you ever feel a little cheated when they put you on a court without a radar gun? 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Do I feel cheated?  No, I don't think I feel cheated, actually.  I think to get on to the court with the radar gun, you have to be a top 10 players, and I think when you become top 10, then maybe I will feel cheated.  But at the moment, I don't think I should be. 


Q.  Did you feel you hit anything in the 130s? 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think I started off serving very well, I thought.  I thought I hit a few maybe 130, but I haven't got a clue. 


Q.  What about your personal radar gun what did you hit today? 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  130, maybe 134, 135. 


Q.  Not 145? 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Unfortunately not, John. 


Q.  Ace down the middle end of the second set, was that -- 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  That was a nice one. 


Q.  I think you lost 3 of your last 4 matches, you lost from being set up, so was this a bit of a confidence booster again today?  Were you beginning to sort of remember these things or not? 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I don't think I was really remembering them.  I mean, against Karbacher, as I said the week before in Philadelphia.  I lost to Joyce.  I was down a set.  I was struggling a little bit because I had the flu in Philadelphia; then I had food poisoning, so my health hasn't been as good as I'd like it to be.  But I am feeling like I am playing a lot better now.  It is always nice to come through a close match.  It always gives you confidence, and I have a very difficult opponent Bjorkman in the next round too, who I have only beaten once; that was the last time we played in Essen, but he has won the last three times it was in three sets, so I am looking forward to a very difficult match.  He has played extremely well last year making the semifinals, so hopefully I think I am going to have to bring it up another notch for tomorrow's match. 


Q.  I haven't seen you since last year.  What has happened with you?  Gotten married or what is going on with that? 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Actually three kids now.  No, I haven't gotten married yet.  I am not engaged at the moment, but I am still with the same girl.  It has been five years.  So my personal life is going well. 


Q.  What about your acting career? 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  My acting career? 


Q.  Try to get to you act in the "checkoff" or something -- 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think I will pass on my acting career.  I know my liabilities.  Unfortunately I am too much of a monotone actor, shall we say.  I will leave it to the professionals.  I know my limitations in life. 


Q.  Has David spoken to you about Davis Cup that is going ahead for New Castle? 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, I am looking forward to playing at New Castle.  I like the city.  I have played there before and I just have good memories there.  I don't think I have lost a match in New Castle.  So hopefully we can continue the Tie. Tim is playing exceptionally well this year.  He has a brilliant record. He has had some fantastic results; especially the semifinals.  Tim is going to be in the top 50 any day soon which will be brilliant, and I mean, we can't ask for a better situation for the Davis Cup team.  And if he continues the way he is going, he will be top 30 as well soon, so it is just brilliant. 


Q.  Difficult year for all of you with so much to pack in, the Davis Cup round coming when they do; the Olympics and everything else.  When do you think you might make a decision on that, near the deadline? 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Near the deadline on that because it is so difficult because when you are -- from 22 to 23, this is a very crucial year for myself, I find, personally.  Because most top players when they have -- they are so called jumping in the top 20, top 30 in the world is when they are between 22 and 23.  If you look at Sampras when he became No. 1 - I am not claiming that I am going to be like Sampras to that extent. This is a critical year in your career.  So it is hard to juggle.  I mean, I am committed to Davis Cup.  I played in 3 Ties.  I think that is very important to keep the camaraderie going and everything.  I will probably make a decision hopefully soon. 


Q.  Now that you are a Brit, your views on the Princess Di breakup? 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  My views.  I think I am not going to pass comment on that one.  I think you will have to talk to her yourself on that one.  John, you think that was a good idea to pass on that one? 

JOHN PARSONS:  I think it was a very sensible move, yes. 


Q.  Have you been doing anything different in terms of training lately? 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I have been working with Scott and I am going to be travelling with because Scott can't travel much so Sean Cole is going to be travelling with me in a few months in Asian; red clay court circuit.  That should work out pretty well.  Scott and him are going to combine together and talk a lot.  I am looking forward to working with Sean because I worked with him a little when I was at home.  I think we get along well and we work together; go in the gym and do our running and do our drills on the court, so I think..... 


Q.  You have a similar sense of humor? 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I don't know if I'd go that far.  I guess we will find out after the next two months.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT