ROGERS MASTERS
August 13, 2005
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Greg. 


Q.  You had a really good tournament, played probably better than for a long time.  Would you agree it's difficult to do too much when you meet Andre playing like that?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I have to say Andre, that's the best he played in our nine meetings by far.  I have to give credit to him.  The only chance I had was to hold serve tonight.  If I managed to do that, it still would have been a tough task.  I thought Andre played great tonight.  You know, what surprised me is how well he served.  That was definitely key.  I never really got a look into his service games tonight all.  I'm pleased with the run I've had the last few weeks.  I'm nearly in the top 32 for the US Open.  Things are going the right direction. 

Q.  What did you decide to do, take a few gambles coming forward?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I tried to come in off him.  When I tried to stay back, staying back with him isn't a great proposition.  I'm not Rafael Nadal.  You know, Andre was just too hot tonight.  He played very, very well.  All credit to him.  Not much I can do when he plays that well.  The only chance I have is to manage to hold on to my serve and hope to get some tiebreakers.  When he's striking it that well, he's too good.

Q.  Do you think he can beat Nadal by playing like that?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  It's going to be an interesting match.  I think it's going to be a great match.  It's going to be in the afternoon.  The afternoon is always a little bit slower than the evenings.  Being faster I thought would suit me.  It's going to be a great, great match because he's going to be fresh.  If he plays like that, I think he's got a very good chance.  I mean, that's the best I've seen him play in a long, long time. 

Q.  How did you feel playing twice in a day?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I was fine.  The body was physically fine.  I mean, I played two hours.  I played less than I did in most of my singles matches for the week.  There wasn't too much taxing on the body at all. 

Q.  Sometimes it's the warming up and down, isn't it?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  No, I don't think.  I mean, I was 4-All, I was still in the set.  I was up 40-15 in the game I got broken.  He hit two good passing shots.  I missed one volley.  It's just taking those little points and being a little bit sharper.  Andre, all credit, he was the much better player tonight. 

Q.  How did it feel on the court?  You're the hometown guy.  Seemed the crowd was with him.  Bit of a division. 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I think Andre's always very popular.  Obviously, he's a legend of the game.  He's won 60 events, seven or eight Grand Slams.  They're not going to see Andre for many more times.  He's been great for the game of tennis.  It's normal for Andre to get such wonderful support.  I'm sure it will be the same for tomorrow in the finals, because he is 35.  Don't have too many 35-year-olds playing out there that well.  That's about as well as I've seen him play against me.  I was very impressed. 

Q.  Playing as well as you played, are you tempted to alter your sights as to what you can achieve still or not? 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I've nearly got the top 32 I want for the US Open.  I've got a free run the next three weeks because I have nothing to defend.  Then I've got the excitement of the Davis Cup coming up in Switzerland.  I'm always ambitious.  I always want to do well.  But, you know, I don't want to put any pressure on myself.  I just want to enjoy it, go along.  I've still got my goals and things I want to do.  I'm excited about the next few weeks. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT