ROGERS MASTERS
August 10, 2005
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Ladies and Gentlemen, Greg Rusedski.  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  That looked very much an uphill battle at the start, but you hung in there and found a way of winning.  That was a pretty good effort. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  You know, I was really pleased.  I thought Max played particularly well that first set, especially that first game, we had a long 10-minute service game to start.  I didn't really do too much wrong when I got broken at 5-4.  He came up with three really good shots.  I just changed my return tactics a little bit, give myself a little bit more time, stood back, started blocking a few returns and making some passing shots.  That was the key to get the two breaks in the second set.  Then just played a really good tiebreaker in the third.  
 
Q.  You also mixed it up when you served more.  You stayed back a bit more. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I didn't want to give him a target for a while.  Whenever I gave him a target, I mean, he hit some fantastic returns at my feet.  I needed to change it up and mix it up because he had a really good rhythm on return of serve today.  
 
Q.  That's the first time since 1992 that you reached the third round in Canada. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Gee, I know, it's been a while.  I'm really pleased to be through.  I played two good matches.  Thought I played better than I did in the first one today.  It's great to be in the third round.  
 
Q.  Serve-and-volley game, you're always scratching and clawing to win a point when the other guy is serving, then the tiebreak starts and you bound up to 5-Love. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, well, the key was just getting that first mini break at 1 and 1-0.  He really went after his returns but didn't connect on any, and I mixed it up.  So that was very important for me to get ahead up 5-Love, then closing it out pretty smoothly.  I'm just really pleased about that.  
 
Q.  With Hewitt out of that side of the draw, do you sort of see things opening?  Do you see there's a real opportunity here for you?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  You've got to look at it.  I mean, Ancic is a great player.  He's been to the semis of Wimbledon.  Last time I played him, I lost to him in a very close match.  Historically I've played pretty well against Lleyton.  I think the last time we played him, I beat him quite handily.  Everybody who's in the third round is a very good player.  Mario is one for the future who is doing very well.  It's going to be another tough match like today.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about the wonderful reception you've been getting. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I was really pleased.  As I say, I had ups and downs in my career.  The older you get, time passes on, people forgive and move on.  It was really nice.  I enjoyed the reception I got and the support from the public.  It was great.  
 
Q.  Did you have some trouble getting used to the new balls in the courts?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think the first day, I really got affected in the first match.  But today I felt pretty comfortable out there.  I thought I served pretty well today compared to the first match.  So, you know, you get into the tournament in the first match and then by the time you're in the second match, you're accustomed to the conditions and the courts. 
 
Q.  Andy Roddick made some fairly strong criticisms about the balls, said they should be the same balls last week in Washington as here. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, we've been talking about that for 25 years, I mean, even before I was on the tour.  It's not rocket science what we're trying to figure out here.  Play the Wilson ball all the way through till the US Open.  Play the Slazenger ball all grass court season, and play the French Open ball for the French Open.  Every year the players are playing the same thing:  "Let's just standardize the ball and get one ball for all surfaces."  You'll see better tennis and you'll see less adjustments for the player to make life easier.  We've been asking that on the tour since I started in '91, and they haven't changed it.  I don't think it's going to happen.  
 
Q.  You think you might need a Players Association or union to press for things like that?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  It would be nice actually.  
 
Q.  That's the way the ATP started, as a union. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  No, it would be nice definitely.  I'd like to see the players get together and form a union.  That would be a great thing.  But the problem is getting all the players together in one area, which all other sports have.  Golf doesn't have it.  Tennis doesn't have it.  I think that would be better for the players if they did have a union.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT