WIMBLEDON
June 22, 2005
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  First question for Greg, please. 


Q.  What do you want to say? 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  No, it just came down to one or two points.  I've never seen Joachim play so well.  There wasn't much in it.  The tiebreaker, the first set, I think it was, whatever it was, 13-11 or 14-12, just one point here or there which could have gone my way.  Then I got the break.  We both have one breakpoint each in the third set.  He hit an ace.  I hit a double by about a millimeter.  So there wasn't much in it.  I couldn't have given any more.  You know, it's unfortunate.  That's the way it goes, you know.  Just wasn't fortunate enough.  He played as well as he could, and I did, and it just didn't go my way tonight. 

Q.  What were your emotions?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  You know, it's obviously disappointing when you play so well and you give everything you got and the crowd's behind you.  I mean, the last set I was hoping to get into a fifth set so I could be playing tomorrow.  The first two points, I played two good points.  I actually played three good points to start off.  You know, I was down 2-1.  He hit one amazing volley and he got a good pickup.  After that, I didn't get another ball to touch after that.  He hit five unreturnables.  Even match point, I played a good point and hit a good forehand.  It's disappointing, but I'll be back next year.  Hopefully I can get a seed, which will help.  Need a little bit of luck on the draw here.  Last year I had the luck of the draw, but I wasn't ready.  You know, hopefully next year I can get some luck of draw and do better.  But he played very well.  Credit to him. 

Q.  What options did Alan Mills actually give you towards the end?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think Joachim wanted to stop.  I just wanted to finish the fourth set.  I was pretty positive that I was going to win the fourth set and we were going to be in the fifth tomorrow.  Didn't turn out my way.  I looked at the stats at the end of the match.  I think I beat him on every single category.  The one that counts was the match.  That's tough to take.  But I've got to be encouraged by my performance.  I couldn't have given more.  You know, when a guy plays that well, it's too good.  But even he admitted, his coach said it was one or two points here or there and that was the difference.

Q.  When was the last time you feel you played as well? 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, it's been a while.  I think at Wimbledon 2002 when I beat Roddick at Centre Court here.  I think I actually felt like I played almost as well as that.  And the last two years, I haven't had the best preparations.  I lost to Roddick in 2003, beat him in 2002, then last year was really no year, just trying to get through.  So, you know, what more can I do?  Just got to come back next year and give it a go. 

Q.  In the tiebreak, it seemed like the umpire said the ball wasn't up. 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I didn't hear it.  I thought he got to the ball.  Everybody told me that he said, "Ball up."  I thought he got there.  But the noise was so loud, I couldn't hear anything.  He didn't recall it.  You know, I didn't hear it.  It didn't make a difference. 

Q.  You said you need a lucky draw perhaps next year.  There is a school of thought that says if you're going to win the tournament, you've got to be able to beat anybody in the draw.  Do you think you can win Wimbledon?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I just take it a year at a time.  I just go out there and I give it my best.  We all have dreams and aspirations of wanting to win.  I think a lot of players, Philippoussis has that dream, I have that dream, all players have that dream.  That's why we play.  We ask for a magical two weeks.  You need luck as well.  I haven't had that luck.  I haven't been fortunate with my luck in the past few years.  '98 was difficult when I was seeded 4th for The Championships and I tore ligaments in my ankles.  To win a Slam, you need that luck.  You need everything to go well for those two weeks, as well as playing well.  So, you know, unfortunately it didn't happen for me. 

Q.  Is the dream closer or further away right now? 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, when you've lost, you're just disappointed, you know, because it's another Wimbledon over.  So, you know, I've just got to work as hard as I did this year, a little bit harder, and prepare for next year. 

Q.  Thoughts of retirement creep in at all?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I'm not thinking about it yet.  I'm still enjoying playing.  If I can play as well as I did tonight, why should I?  As long as I still enjoy it.  I mean, No. 10 player in the world gets pushed all the way to the limit.  If he was sitting here, we had a chat in the locker room afterwards, his coach and everything, if I can push the No. 10 guy that close on grass, and his coach said he played five times better in the first round match than he did to win, what else can I do? 

Q.  The fact there's younger Brits coming through with promise, does that push you on?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think it's great.  It's about time.  I'm really proud of what Andrew has done, winning his first round match.  I'm also happy he realizes he only beat the 140th player in the world, as he said.  He's getting a lot of hype.  But he deserves it because he's the US Open champion, he's got a good attitude.  He's doing very well.  I like his attitude.  I still want him to be part Davis Cup team.  I see a bright future.  So hopefully more kids can follow his example. 

Q.  Did you sense tonight when the crowd were getting behind you as fantastically as they always do, the fact that you're treated with more affection than ever by the Wimbledon crowd?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think they just appreciate what I've given for this game and what I've done for the younger players and my effort level, always giving a hundred percent.  I think a lot of them feel I've been a little bit unlucky and they want me to have a little luck and get through those sort of matches.  They just want to drive me on and see me win those sort of matches.  It was great to have the support, people getting behind me and cheering.  I would have wished I could have been playing in the fifth tomorrow.  It was great, though. 

Q.  Everybody is now sort of talking about young Murray.  Henman and Rusedski always went together.  Is the era over? 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Not yet.  I'm not retiring.  I'm still going.  Might want to talk to him, but I'm still playing. 

Q.  Would you have thought maybe a year ago you could have actually -- I know you lost today.  You actually enjoy playing the level you played at.  Did you think 12 months ago you could ever get back to this level?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I did.  I worked harder than I ever have to get where I am.  I haven't had the results I had this year.  I've had some tough draws.  I think I've lost like nine out of 12 matches to Top 10 players in the world.  It doesn't get kind on me.  I just kept on fighting and wanting to.  When I get on grass, anything can happen.  Even if it's slower, I still feel like I have a chance to win out there.  I'm just going to have to work it doubly hard next year and give it another shot. 

Q.  Didn't look very slow tonight. 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, if you put Joachim and me -- when a guy is hitting a 130-mile-an-hour second serve on breakpoint, you just got to go for it.  If you don't go for it as a big server, and he was staying back the whole time as well.  If your a serve and volleyer, if you don't go for it, the guy is going to pick you off and make easy work of you.  I mean, even though I watched a little bit of Tim's the day before, he had to serve and stay back because he was just getting beaten up on his second serve.  The way the game is going now, you just have to go for it if you're an attacking player.  If you don't, you're going to get extremely punished now on the grass courts. 

Q.  I know it's very soon after you lost, but do you think you'll go to Newport?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I can't really think about it, but I'm entered to play.  I've won it I think twice in singles, once in doubles.  I need to keep that ranking up.  I probably will be there because the goal has already started for next Wimbledon already tomorrow.  That's the way it works. 

Q.  Although Joachim is ranked 10, he's had a lot of problems recently. 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  He's up and down.  That's the thing with Joachim.  I was hoping to catch him on the down day, unfortunately, but it didn't happen.  For some reason, he enjoys playing me.  You know, he's a great player, but it's fluctuations.  If he can consistently play at that level like he did at the US Open last year, he's very, very dangerous. 

Q.  Do you think that's possible here, that he could go a long way? 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I was sore after the match.  I'm sure he looked pretty sore, too.  We'll see how the recovery goes.  I'm sure he's gained a lot of confidence from tonight's match.  I think he's got a good chance to do well.  It's going to be a new day.  It's going to be a different match with Gonzalez, whoever he's playing, is going to be staying on the baseline.  With me he knows he has to go after everything or he's in trouble.  It will be interesting.  I think he can do well.  If he plays like tonight, why not? 

Q.  You've had a couple of interesting matches with Stepanek.  What advice could you give to Andy going in there tomorrow?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I spoke to Mark Petchey after my match tonight.  I gave him a few clues of what to do.  I played him twice.  I played him at the exhibition last week and then played him at Queen's Club.  I've given a few little tips.  It will be a different match because Andy's going to stay on the baseline.  I think he returns pretty well, so that's going to be pretty key for him, to return well and attack him.  I told him which sides to attack on, so I'm not going to have it printed in the press so the opposition can read it.  I wish him well and I think he has a great chance to win.  I'd be really proud if he wins that match tomorrow. 

Q.  Guillermo Canas has admitted to the Argentinian press that he's being investigated by the ATP for a doping offense.  Do you know anything about that?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I'm not even going there.  I'm too tired.  Don't even go there.  I'm too tired tonight.  Talk to Guillermo, not me. 

Q.  Sounds familiar, though. 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I think it's a different situation because you can't put mine in the context of him.  Mine was a totally different issue, so you have to talk to him. 

Q.  Have you got his number? 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I don't actually.  I don't have too many friends in Argentina, to be honest with you. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT