WIMBLEDON
June 20, 2005
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Greg Rusedski, Ladies and gentlemen.


Q.  Can you talk about the courts.

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think the courts, I felt they were a little bit slow compared to the last two weeks I've played.  It was great to get to four sets out there.  I was really happy with the way I served in the last two sets and played.  So it was great to get that sort of match today. 

Q.  Do you think in the second set maybe he started to find his rhythm a bit? 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I think it was a combination of two things.  I spoke with Martin.  I think my serve, I didn't serve as well in the second set and I wasn't as aggressive as I'd like.  But changed that around right away and then I got more aggressive on the returns as well.  I improved what I needed to do there in the last two sets.  I was just pleased with the performance. 

Q.  How did you feel about playing on Court 2? 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I know from now on in, I don't think I'll be playing on Court 2.  I'll probably be inside because  I'm playing Joachim Johansson.  It gets tougher with the draws.  It's good because the fans actually get to see some of the British player and usually not playing on the show courts.  It's not bad because I think -- you know, you had Myskina, who is a former French Open champion, who was out there on Court 2.  Sampras played his last ever match on Court 2.  There's been a lot of exciting matches.  I remember queuing a few years back and seeing Jimmy Connors playing out there.  I think he lost to Patrick Kuhnen.  Kind of like the danger court, the court you don't want to be on.  There have been a lot of good players that have been on it. 

Q.  You haven't played on it in years?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  It's been a little while.  I think the last time was against Byron Black which was in I think maybe '99 or something like that.  So it's been a few years. 

Q.  Obviously 10 years since you've been British, a British player.  How much has changed for you in that time?  You got a lot of support today.  Do you think people's affection has grown for you during that time?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think they realize my commitment to Davis Cup, representing Britain in the Olympics and other areas.  I think I'm becoming part of the furniture a little bit now.  I try to give back to the kids and help out as much as I can.  I think they just appreciate the time I've given.  I think I've helped Tim because we've had that rivalry in the '90s which was so good for the both of us.  I think it's been ups and downs, an exciting 10 years.  A lot of good things, a lot of, you know, bad times as well.  But that's the thing, people get to see me and see what I've done.  So I think it's been really good.  I've enjoyed it. 

Q.  Do you remember much about the first match you played here? 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, I do actually.  I remember quite a bit about the first match.  I played Guy Forget on Centre Court.  I lost the first set in 18 minutes, 6-1.  Got an absolute thrashing.  Then I managed to squeak it by and win 7-6, 7-6, 7-5.  It was a fond memory to come out here and play my first match on Centre Court as a British player.  It was a great time for me and one I'll never forget.  It was a good moment for me. 

Q.  Is there always a sense that time is running out, whatever happens? 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, time is running out.  I didn't think I'd be here over 30 to be honest with you playing.  I'm still enjoying it, still doing the best I can.  I think Tim and I are not going to be here, you know -- I can't imagine we're going to be here longer than five years or less.  So, you know, time is running out, but we're just trying to make the most of it and do the best we possibly can.  The only good thing is we've got Andrew Murray, who is showing some good potential for the future.  That's a positive.  We need more kids to be like him with his sort of desire and drive.  That's the positive for us. 

Q.  Roger and Lleyton earlier on today were talking about how few volleys they were playing today.  Do you think the courts have changed, the balls? 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think definitely over the last 10 years, there's no question the courts have gotten slower.  I remember playing Edberg on that court.  Actually, that was my first match, I'm sorry.  First match in '93 that I ever played at Wimbledon was against Edberg on that Court 2.  I lost 7-6, 6-7, 7-6, 6-4, one break.  It was lightning fast.  There's no question that it's totally different from now to what it was back then.  I mean, the grass seems a little bit thicker and it is a little bit slower.  The balls were I guess a little bit quicker.  I could be wrong, but that's just the feeling I had then, it was a lot easier.  Also I think guys have changed style.  I think guys return a little bit better than they did maybe 10 years ago. 

Q.  In that case do you see the end of the classic serve-and-volley game on grass?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  There's not too many to talk of.  There's myself, Tim, Mirnyi, Dent, Karlovic.  Apart from that, there's really no more.  It's all baseline tennis.  I mean, I think last year I remember the match with Federer and Hewitt.  Federer came to the net 11 times out of four sets with quite a good serve-and-volley game he has.  He prefers staying back.  It's just different tennis the way it's played now. 

Q.  You just mentioned a couple matches you played in the past, were able to give pretty specific details.  Can you remember ever match you played if we said so and so?  How good is your memory? 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  It's pretty good.  I remember most things.  I got a pretty photographic memory.  You kind of live every match.  It's kind of a part of who you are every single match.  Don't bring up the bad ones, please, because I don't want to think about those things for the next few weeks, only the good ones would be nice.

Q.  Ever thought about going on Mastermind answering questions about Greg Rusedski?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I don't know if that would be an interesting enough topic (smiling).  Let me think.  Maybe James Bond, that would be better for me. 

Q.  You could answer all the questions about James Bond?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think I could.  I could do pretty well on that. 

Q.  I presume you are like this with everything in your memory? 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah.  Yeah, I've got a pretty photographic memory. 

Q.  Who was the first ever James Bond? 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Who was the first ever James Bond?  Depends which way you're going on it, too.  You could say Sean Connery or Peter Sellers depending on which way you want to go on it.  There we go.  Mastermind No. 1. 

Q.  What year was the first film?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Which one do you want, the Peter Sellers or? 

Q.  Both, please. 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Geez.  I didn't think we were here for Mastermind.  Let me see. 

Q.  Is that a pass?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  No, that's not a pass.  '62 was Goldfinger.  Peter Sellers, I watched The Life, that must have been before.  I'd have to say I don't know.  Take a guess. 

Q.  Phone a friend. 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Phone a friend, yes.  Hopefully they won't hang up on me like they did on Millionaire. 

Q.  What about Dr. No? 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  That was the original one, the first one, yes. 

Q.  You should have rung me. 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  What did I say, Goldfinger?  Must be thinking about tennis at the moment.  I'm kind of confused here.  I'm doing a press conference about tennis.  I'm talking about James Bond.  But that's life.  I guess when you get older, it gets more entertaining. 

Q.  The support on Court 2 was fabulous, wasn't it?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, it was great.  You had the people queuing up.  I think it's great for them to be able to see the players.  I mean, when I first came and played the Juniors here, I think I was 13.  I was talking about the match of Connors and Kuhnen.  I was standing up at the top, looking, watching, really enjoying the atmosphere.  It's really good for the public to see the players come outside.  I'm sure they'd love to see Sharapova or the ladies on an outside court or Federer or someone like that, they'd really enjoy that.  It's good for the people who buy the grounds passes to be able to see the players.

Q.  Can you remember how old you were when you saw that match?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I must have been about 13.

Q.  10 years down the road, any regrets about how it went down in Canada?  Anything different you would do if you could do it over?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I don't think there are any regrets about things.  I mean, obviously, the Canada Day episode as well,  that one probably I in retrospect would have -- I didn't realize it was.  So that's the only thing -- I didn't regret wearing a headband, it was just the wrong day.  I'd say that was the thing that I would say.   But, I mean, I've enjoyed my time.  It's been great the 10 years.  Hopefully may it continue. 

Q.  You've seep what's happened to Murray over the last week, 10 days, the sort of excitement.  What would be your sort of best advice to him at this stage? 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I think what I'm impressed with is he doesn't mind all the attention.  When he goes out there, he thinks he can beat everybody, so he handles it quite well.  But also you guys have to give him some time.  Remember, he's only 18.  I mean, when I was 19, nearly 20, I was Top 50.  Tim it took till he was 21.  So give him the time to basically have those two, three years' grace.  If he keeps working with the right people, has the right attitude, you know, I think he'll go a long way.  He should get to top hundred, top 50.  After that, it depends how much is there, because there's a lot of great players.  My advice would be to put your head down, work hard, don't worry about things.  If he does that in the next two years, I think he'll have a great career. 

Q.  Do you think the fact he isn't a serve-volleyer, the fact he plays from the back of the court, make it quite difficult for him at Wimbledon, given the fact everyone has been watching you and Tim for the last decade?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I don't know.  I mean, I watched Safin today he's up two sets to love staying back.  I watched Roger and Paul-Henri Mathieu.  Roger stayed back.  He came in maybe five or 10 times.  The game has changed so much.  I think he's going to be so competitive wherever he is.  Obviously, I think he'd prefer the French Open and the hard courts.  I still think he has a chance to do well here.  Look at the he Nalbandian getting to the finals, Hewitt wining the title here.  It can be done from the pack of the court.  Agassi winning.  With the speed it is how now, it definitely is a bit slower.  There is a chance for him. 

Q.  Do you think it can actually be won by a serve and volleyer here?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  That's what I'm hoping (smiling).  I still think it can be.  But you have to be firing really well.  I mean, Ivanisevic in 2001 was I thought great.  Sampras won it for seven years serving and volleying, did pretty well as well.  It's just time, the way things change.  It's just different. 

Q.  Did you ever think of changing yourself, your own style?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  If I stay on the baseline, I might as well find another job 'cause, I mean, that's the way I play.  I've always been an attacking sort of player.  I can mix it up and stay back, but I'm not going to win against the top guys playing their game.  From the baseline, if you're playing a Federer, a Hewitt, players like that, you're going to finish second best.  You can get into the rally, but you have to get yourself forward and let them beat you.  That's the way I have to play. 

Q.  Having a game today which got you into a groove, a rhythm, does that give you a strong belief about the next fortnight? 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  It does.  I mean, the next match is going to be a tough one.  I'm playing the 11th seed Joachim Johansson.  That's going to be the match to open up the section.  I need to try to get through.  That will really determine how my fortnight goes as the next round.  I'm going to need the support from the public.  I'm going to need all the help I can get.  If I can get through that one, I think I've got a good chance to go a long way and maybe get into the second week this year. 

Q.  Are you surprised with his serve?  He doesn't volley that well, doesn't come in much. 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I played him twice.  I played him in St. Petersburg.  He served and volleyed almost first and second serve, which was kind of strange.  Then I played him at Sydney this year where I lost to him, and he stayed back the whole time.  It will be interesting to see what choice he makes.  But I think he's just more comfortable from the baseline than he is at the net.  But it will be interesting to see what happens when we play on Wednesday. 

Q.  As much as it's slowed down, you guys will still be serving... 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  We'll still be serving pretty big.  If you hit the corners at the speeds we're playing, we'll still get a lot of aces.  I've just got to stay positive and aggressive with these courts.  If you take a little bit off, the guys are good enough nowadays that they'll get the returns and do a lot with them.  Even Albert, I didn't serve as well as I'd like in the second set.  He hit some very good returns so I have to give him credit for that as well. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT