THE STELLA ARTOIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 9, 2005
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  First question for Greg.


Q.  Thoughts on that?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I think the first game, when I got broken, you know, had I held that game, it would have been a little bit more interesting.  I think I had a few too many double-faults today which were costly, when I looked at the stats after the match.  You know, I didn't serve as well as I'd like, but I played a good game to break back in the second set. Then, you know, he played very, very consistent, solid.  I think he served something like 78%.  So he played a very clever match today, and I just didn't take my chances where I had to. So credit to him; he was the better man today.


Q.  Seemed to get a bit testy at one stage.  Gave you a bit of a verbal across the net.  He was complaining.  What was that about?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  No, it was just banter between the two of us.  No big deal.  It happens.  We're just trying to get ourselves going in the match here and there.  He was just taking his time and complaining about all the calls all the time, but that's just part of the sport.


Q.  Should the umpire have said something, rather than you having to?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, it would be nice, but I know Steve pretty well; he usually just calls the score.  So that's the way it goes.  I'm not worried about it.  That wouldn't have made a difference in the match today.  Radek was the better player today.  He played the better tennis.  That didn't make a difference in the match whatsoever, so credit to him.  He was the better man today.  He played a very smart match today. Had I served better, I had, I think, nine double-faults today, which is just way too many.  I looked at the stats, and that was the big difference today.


Q.  Can you remember the last time you played on Court 1?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, last time I played was when I tore my ligaments in my foot, so it's not a fond memory to be on Court 1.  Put me on Court 10 down in the corner, I don't care (smiling). But, no, I can understand their scheduling for today.  It made sense, you know, with Andy having such a great win, and Tim, needing to get the No. 1 and 2 seeds on there. So, for me, I understand the reasoning behind that 100%.  You know, I completely understand, because if I was the tournament director, I'd schedule it the same way.


Q.  Next week it's Stoke Park?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, no, I'm looking forward to Stoke.  Going to get some good matches, work on a few areas I need to work on, and, you know, get ready for Wimbledon.  I mean, three matches on grass this week's been good.  Obviously, I'd like to continue, but, you know, that's the way it goes. But three matches is an improvement on last year, and just look forward to the next ones coming up.


Q.  What was the reason behind not playing Nottingham?  Was it just for a change or...

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I just think getting back, if you do really well there, it's quite a rush to get back, forth, and also just to adjust to the grass courts and just being in London.  You get a little bit more time at Wimbledon, so you can be right into the tournament.  It just helps out with preparation just to have that week in between a major championship.


Q.  How worried are you about your serving at the moment?  Obviously, in your last match the first serve percentage was way down.

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, service percentage was great today.  It was I think 67.  So the service percentage was up.  It was just the few double-faults. But you've got to be aggressive.  I mean, with the way guys return nowadays and the way the courts and the balls are playing, if you're not going after your second serve, you can forget about it.  I mean, grass used to be serve-and-volley tennis.  Now you're having two players sitting on the baseline having 10-, 15-ball rallies, which is not unusual if you look at the two first matches on center.  So it's just changed. If you're going to be a serve-and-volley player, you have to be very aggressive with both serves and take a little bit of risks, but, you know, just find a way. I'm not too concerned with it because it's getting better.  And, you know, if I probably cut that number in half, I'll be fine.


Q.  What caused the change in the way the courts are playing?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, the courts here are always magnificent.  I mean, they're always such a clean bounce and such a good court.  I think it's just the technology, the way the grass is grown, the balls are a little bit slower so then players can do things, and that's just the way the game is.  Plus, the players have probably gotten better.  So it's a combination of quite a few things. I think I remember grass being -- like the first day here, the grass was very slippery and very, very, very quick.  But that's just the way it is now.


Q.  Is it different soil?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I don't ask.  Doesn't matter what I say anyways, it's gonna stay the way it is.  I don't get involved with things I can't make a change on (smiling).


Q.  But the nature of the grass has definitely changed?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, it is.  Yeah, the nature of the grass and the balls have changed, there's no question about it.  I mean, I think -- it also depends on the court.  I think also the technology to make them now is much better, they're much more flat, they're much more true.  They're just better courts and for some reason a little slow, but that's fine. Nothing to complain about (smiling).


Q.  How are you prepared fitness-wise?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, no, I feel great.  Physically the body feels good.  Everything's good.  Nothing to worry about.  I'm feeling good, fit.  Everything's great.


Q.  So you're ready to hold up for seven five-set matches?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  That would be very nice, but let's not get ahead of ourselves.  Just take it one match at a time at Wimbledon.  I'll just take it one match at a time.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT