THE STELLA ARTOIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 8, 2005
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 
 

Q.  Another nice result.
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, no, I was pleased with the way I played today, especially the first set and the third set especially.  So the first and the third were definitely the best. But the second set, I served very well but just didn't get into his service games enough.  That was a little bit of a problem.  Changed it in the third set, and that was definitely the key. 
 

Q.  When was the last time you feel you played as well as that?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I think it's just coming together.  It's just getting comfortable.  I think I've played reasonably well the whole season apart from maybe clay court season.  I never really got into that season, and historically I never have so it's not really unusual that time of year (laughing). But I think, you know, I'm looking forward to the next match against Stepanek.  I'm excited.  I won two matches back-to-back, and hopefully I can continue. 
 

Q.  When was the last time you won two matches back-to-back?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Davis Cup. 
 

Q.  Was it Luxembourg?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, Luxembourg in November. 
 

Q.  Is it good just to get that rhythm?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, it is, it's great.  The more matches I can get, and at this tournament, the better off I'm going to be.  I'm just happy.  I'm really being aggressive on my second serve.  I mean, the first set I didn't serve a very high percentage, but my second serve was very good.  That's always a key for when you're playing, if you're hitting your second serve well. 
 

Q.  There's still a possibility you could be seeded for Wimbledon.
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, no. 
 
Q.  What do you think your world ranking would have to be to get a seed?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I don't know.  Depends how many Spanish and Argentinians don't feel like showing up.  So hopefully a lot of them won't feel like coming (smiling). But if I can continue to play well here and continue in this week, then I don't have to worry about those things. 
 

Q.  At 31, Greg, can you still be a factor at Wimbledon, do you think, in the second week?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I'd like to think that.  You know, only time will -- 
 
Q.  But you can think that --
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Only time will tell.  I'm just going to go out there, swing away, and go after my first and my second serve.  You know, you need a little bit of luck in the opening stages with the draw, and getting seeded would definitely help for a possibility of getting into the second week. I'm just looking forward to it.  I'm not going to put any pressure on myself.  I think this is the first time in about, what, last two years -- I haven't had any preparation really going into Wimbledon the last two years, up to the standard I usually like.  This year I played nearly a full calendar, so that's been a positive for me. 
 

Q.  The fact that you're sort of heading towards the twilight years of your career, you say you'll go out and "swing away," that's sort of in your favor, you can relax now?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, I think it's just trying not to put too much pressure on yourself.  You still -- everybody still gets a little nervous out there, but I'd rather go out swinging than go out there being a little tentative.  And if you play positive, then good things can happen. 
 

Q.  Presumably, you can now deal with that pressure a lot better?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think it's getting confidence.  I think this week's been a very positive week for me so far, getting two matches.  You know, you need to get that confidence.  I mean, if you're losing first and second rounds, the more matches you get, the better off you're going to be.  So the more I can continue here, the better my chances are going to be. 
 

Q.  You mentioned the serve was good today.  It wasn't just that, was it?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I was happy with my return.  That's what I wanted to work on after the first match.  The returns were really good in the first.  I thought in the third set I had four games I could have broken, I broke the opening game.  But that was creating opportunities, which is great. 
 

Q.  You've gone up against some big names in these single events this year, haven't you?  Keep going up against the same ones.
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, I do.  I had some chances to win them.  I had the matchpoint against Tim in Dubai; I had set point against Tim in Hamburg.  I lost to Federer twice; Roddick twice; Joachim Johansson, he was 10; Thomas Johansson, he was 15; and then Gonzalez who was 18.  So on the season where I can play well, I've had some difficult draws.  But those are the matches, you need to win one or two of those to get up in the tournament, and I haven't been able to do that yet. 
 

Q.  What is your record against Stepanek?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think I played him once at the end of last year in St. Petersburg.  I think I won in three sets, I think it was?  Two or three sets.  But I won the last time we played.  I think we've only played once. 
 

Q.  I think after Wimbledon last year you were about 165 or something.
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, career high (smiling). 
 

Q.  Sitting here now, 38, possibly going up a little higher than that this week, has that gone better than you thought or did you think --
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I thought I would have made more of a charge by now, but the draws, as you said, I've had tough draws and I haven't been able to take advantage of them. So, you know, I'd assumed I would have been higher by now.  But if you would have said last year at 165 I would be up to 38, I'd be quite pleased with that.  I think that's only a positive thing to look at.  If I can get in that top 32, then I think I've accomplished a lot.  Even just getting seeded here at Queen's this week compared to where I was last year is a big plus. 
 

Q.  You used to give Andre Agassi as a example of how he did --
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I won't be here at 35, so don't worry about it (laughing). 
 

Q.  But the way he came back, even higher than you are now, do you think you could sort of emulate that?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, I'd still like to go higher, but what Andre's accomplished is quite astounding in the game of tennis.  I guess I'm more a dreamy sort of person, more like Ivanisevic - 125 coming out of the blue and surprising us all.  I'm more like him than Andre, and Andre plays a totally different game to me.  So I'm more -- 
 

Q.  I mean the achievement.
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, the achievement.  I know what you're trying to say.  But I'm trying to say I kind of like Goran's story a little better (laughing). 
 

Q.  Shows it can be done, doesn't it?  It shows the dream can happen?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, exactly.  That's what we all play for and we hope for a magical two weeks somewhere.  If it happens, great.  But at least you're putting (sic) yourself the chance to do it. That's what we all strive for.  I'm sure Philippoussis feels the same way.  I'm sure there's guys who have done it.  I mean, Mark did it I think, what, two years ago where he got to the finals out of nowhere.  So, you know, you just hope for luck sometimes and things to go your way, and you never know. 
 

Q.  To a certain extent, considering your luck this year --
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, I'm due a good draw.  Finally got my reasonable draw in grass court season, so that was all right considering.  I can't complain. 
 

Q.  You talked about being nervous.  Do you think you were a bit of a nervous guy?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I think everybody gets nervous.  It's only normal.  I don't think -- the only people who might not get so nervous is Federer and Nadal when they've won 50 matches this year already (laughing).  Then you start to ease up a little bit. But I think everybody has to deal with that sort of situation of nerves and just going out there and getting the confidence back. I mean, even Roger, he came back from the French Open, had a tough three-set match in his first round in Halle getting used to the grass.  So, you know, it takes time to adjust.  The more you win, the better you feel about yourself, and the better you feel about life. 
 

Q.  When people like Nadal lose, like he did today in Germany --
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, I don't think he's too worried about it (laughing).  I think he's not too panicked about it after winning the French Open and his magical run. But it shows he wants to make an effort on the grass, which I admire and I think is a great thing, because I think he's going to come to Wimbledon really hungry and he's going to give it 100%.  Whether he does well or whether he doesn't, he's going to make a good effort. 
 

Q.  How do you think he'll do?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think he's got a chance in the future because the courts are definitely slower, things are changed up.  He's already been to the third round when he was 17, so it shows a lot of pedigree, and fight accounts for a lot in this game. But, you know, only time will tell.  But he's probably going to make his best effort to get into the second week and do what he can. 
 

Q.  You just spoke about slower courts at Wimbledon.  Tim in the French Open mentioned about this balls issue.  Have you had any input --
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  No, I don't worry about that.  They're gonna run it and do the things they want to do to attract the right sort of game they want and those things. I just -- there's nothing I can do about it.  I just go out there.  If I can serve well and be aggressive -- Sampras managed to do it with all the slower balls, Federer seems to manage to do it.  So, I mean, we just make due with what we have out there, and that's all we can do. 
 

Q.  You mentioned Mark.  Do you think he can get back again?  There's a similarity between his career with the injuries and so on...
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I don't know.  Only time will tell.  I don't know how much he's working and how he's committed.  But I'm sure he has a desire to do it.  If he's already done it once, why can't he do it again?  Today I didn't think he'd probably be very disappointed with the way he played after playing such a good first-round match. He didn't play so well here last year, and he still got to the fourth round and had chances against Tim, so he's always dangerous out there. 
 

Q.  You said you won't be around till 35.  How long will you be around for? 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I don't know.  I'm just taking it a year at a time.  As long as I'm enjoying it, I'll continue. But who knows?  I thought I would be done by the time I was 30.  Maybe I will be here 35.  Who knows?  I shouldn't quote myself on it just yet (laughing). 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT