NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 23, 2005
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  Was that more of a struggle than you expected it to be?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I really didn't know what to expect.  I had never seen him play before.  I talked to a few guys in the locker room; they said he hits the ball quite flat.  He's got a flat serve and can be quite flashy sometimes.  The conditions the first set were probably some of the most difficult I've ever played. 
 
Q.  Because of the thunder?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Just the wind.  I mean, the wind, there was no real direction on what the ball was doing.  It's not coming straight.  It's swirling, it's mixing all the time.  I played one bad service game and, you know, I had, I think, 9 or 11 break chances, 10 or 11 or whatever break chances. 
 
Q.  Ten actually, but who's counting. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Whatever it was.  Well, it was a little frustrating to be honest.  But, you know, I stuck with it.  The weather changed.  Got a break.  Got inside.  And then, you know, the wind stopped and I could play my aggressive tennis and be more positive with the ball.  And I was pretty pleased with the last two sets because I thought he played pretty well. 
 
Q.  You've had trouble with the wind here before.  Is it fair to say it's not your favorite venue?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I think it's a beautiful facility, but the conditions are very difficult here.  I mean, you want to be playing on a Stadium Court or somewhere like that when the conditions are like this.  But some days you can have good weather and some days you can have bad weather, so you just got to learn how to fight the elements.  Today I managed to fight the elements and find a way to get through.  That's what tennis is about, is winning matches when you're in a little bit of trouble. 
 
Q.  Do you think experience in the end was a big plus?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think it definitely helped out.  I don't want to go out and lose in the first round.  I've still got a lot of pride out there.  I was pretty pleased to get through.  Those are the sort of matches you have to win.  Now I'll just take the next step in the next round and play better and move in.  I've gotten into the tournament now and that's the most important thing. 
 
Q.  Have you ever come off court before when it hasn't actually been raining?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  No, I've never come off court.  That's the first for me.  But they were pretty right.  I looked on the tele when I walked in.  It looked terrible (laughing).  I'm pretty happy they called us in after that first set. 
 
Q.  Gayle Bradshaw was outside when I left the court.  He said that one bolt of lightning had struck just across the road.  So it was time to leave. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, I think it was a good call.  I wasn't too disappointed to go inside with those conditions we were playing in.  I was quite happy for the rain break. 
 
Q.  Every win for you now at this time of the year is a bonus and will help your ranking.  Is that in your mind when you step on court?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  No, I just think I want to win matches.  I don't want to lose to players I shouldn't lose to.  So far this year I've beaten everybody on paper with my ranking I'm supposed to have beaten.  It's a step forward.  I mean, I came close in Dubai against Tim, I had matchpoints.  Played pretty close against Gonzalez where I had a chance to win that match.  Now I've got a test in Thomas Johansson.  I just need to break that barrier and get those guys that are ahead of me and start winning those matches.  I'm getting closer with every match.  The guys I've lost to this year have had very good years so far - I mean, Federer, Roddick, Joachim Johansson.  Gonzalez played well in the beginning of the year, winning hard courts events.  I lost a tight one to Tim, which is always a tough match for both of us.  So now it's just to try to move on from this one and try to get on a roll and win some matches against the guys who are ahead of me.  
 
Q.  How much experience did Israel give you? 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think Israel, for me, was a wonderful experience, just working with younger kids.  You know, coming through, proving in Davis Cup that we could still win with a new team out there, that was the exciting thing for me.  I was really impressed with Andy Murray.  I thought Dave Sherwood came in and gave a great performance because you know what his struggles have been with, his commitment, and he's starting to change his attitude.  That was a big positive.  We learned a lot.  I thought Jeremy, Martin, everybody who was involved with the team did a great job.  It's one of my fondest memories of tennis.  
 
Q.  Have you heard about Andrew Murray?  He beat DePasquale. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  No, I didn't. That's a great win.  I mean, his attitude, what impresses me about him, he's got a really good head for being so young already.  If he physically can stay strong and do the right things, he's got a good future ahead of him.  I'm pretty excited.  If he keeps on winning like that, in September, who knows, we might be a little stronger in the singles and doubles department as well.  I'm excited whenever I hear good results about the younger boys. 
 
Q.  There had been a question mark of whether you would carry on to play Davis Cup. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yes. 
 
Q.  Obviously, the right decision. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, it wasn't a hard decision, I just didn't want the timing of, in Australia, to deal with the situation.  Once the Australian Open finished, I knew my decision basically straightaway.  I just got on the plane, slept on it, got back home and said, Yeah, I still want to play.  I enjoy it, I like the team atmosphere.  It's a lot of fun getting together with the guys for a week.  In tennis you have no other situation like that.  It's great.  I still like working with a lot of the younger kids.  For me, it's an ideal situation to be involved as long as I can.  Even when I stop tennis on the main tour, I'd still like to be involved in Davis Cup somehow. 
 
Q.  You told us in Italy that if you have a coach at the moment, it's Bohmmer (Martin Bohm).  Obviously, he's not here.  Getting back into that locker room, in that situation, is when a coach sometimes earns his money. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I did all right in the locker room.  When I came out, I thought I played a little bit better, so the coach did a good job (smiling). 
 
Q.  So what did you do?  Did you just sit down, have a think?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  No, I just sat down, I had a think.  I was pretty happy the rain came, the temperature changed.  It just was -- I mean, it was very hard conditions and then it got calm.  It was a lot easier just to attack the ball, be more aggressive, play more positive.  And all I really did that first set was play one terrible service game.  I created 10 chances and took none, as you saw.  It was just being more positive.  When I got my set point in the first, I hit a forehand winner down the line, and was positive.  Even on matchpoint I came over the return and then hit a good backhand.  So it's just one or two little points here or there.  If I were to take one of those breakpoints, I could be sitting here in a nice two-set win a little bit more comfortably.  But those are experiences. Martin will be there for the French, he'll be there for Wimbledon, the grass court season, the US Open, the week before.  He'll be able to help me out in those situations when it comes to the Grand Slams. 
 
Q.  I noticed, correct me if I'm wrong, your dad doesn't come that often these days. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah. 
 
Q.  To see him at the side of the court, it's been a while. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, they live half the time in West Palm Beach.  So after I lost in Indian Wells I was down visiting my parents for a week and training.  They always come to the tournament in Miami every year. 
 
Q.  Is he still trying to --
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  No, he doesn't put any input.  He just comes out and he just enjoys watching now.  
 
Q.  "Enjoys"? 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I don't know if it was enjoyable today, but he's retired and playing golf now and enjoying life.  So good for him. 
 
Q.  How long have they lived down there?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, they've been there about four, five years now.  It's been a while.  His golf game's better than mine (smiling). 
 
Q.  He was getting into it a bit, I could see, into the match. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, I think any parent wants their child to do well and always wants them to win.  It's only human nature.  I mean, if you have kids, I'm sure if you watch them at the local football match or whatever it is, you want them to win.  It's the same for any parent. 
 
Q.  Were the calls that bad, or was it just your frustration manifesting itself? 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I thought one was pretty poor.  The other ones you complain about to get it out of your system.  The far sidelines, you can never overrule, even if you get a bad call.  It's better to get it out of your system, move on.  The one down the T I thought was a poor call, but it's better to get it out than let it affect me afterwards.  So it's better to just get rid of it and then move on.  If I let it dwell, I get mad and continue, and that's a bad thing.  I think I learned from that experience once, though. 
 
Q.  Obviously, you're still in this tournament at the moment.  In terms of your ranking, you are inching forwards.  Are you intending to play all the Masters Series?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I haven't made a decision what I'm going to do with the clay court season yet.  I haven't figured that one out fully yet.  I'm just trying to do as well as I can this week.  Obviously, the goal after that is really the buildup to Wimbledon - whether it's playing the clay court season, whether it's practicing and training.  That's what has to be figured out.  Realistically, you can do well on the clay and win a few matches, but I'm not going to win the French Open.  I've never won a match in Monte-Carlo, so...(laughing).  You know, my record on clay in Davis Cup is all right, but, you know, on the tour, it's a different thing.  So I have to figure out what I'm going to do and sit down after this week and figure out what's best for my preparation for Wimbledon.  Those will be the two months where I need to get physically stronger and just be ready to last seven matches for five sets and use that period as my preparation for grass court season.  
 
Q.  Will Martin have an input in that decision?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I think it will be a discussed decision.  I think it will come down to myself at the end of the day.  I'll discuss with a few people and figure out what I think is best and how I feel mentally, because I'm going to be 32 this year and I have to be smarter.  As the years go on, you want to do as well as you can at the tournaments you think you can do well at. 
 
Q.  Is it important to get into 32 for a Wimbledon seed?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think it will be great to be able to get into the Wimbledon 32.  The higher I can do, the better I can do this week, will help me.  You know, even on clay, if I can win one or two matches if I decide to play, depending on rankings.  And I'm hoping for a few withdrawals out of Wimbledon would be nice, too (laughing).  
 
Q.  You might play on clay?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, if I have to.  I think if you can get into the 32, you can move up on your past grass court performances.  It does always help to be seeded at Wimbledon.  If you're not seeded, you can draw anyone from Federer to, you know, great players who play really well.  If I can get into the 32, it will help me a lot.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT