WESTERN AND SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 4, 2004
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Greg moves into the Round of 16...

GREG RUSEDSKI:  For the second time.

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Who's hopefully gonna play for five hours today.


Q.  You really scratched your way through the first two sets, didn't you, and played better in the third?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, that's a fair assessment.  I felt I wasn't serving very well for a set and a half.  But the thing which was key was competing out there, you know, just fighting, trying to find a way to win today when you're not playing as well as you'd like.  So it was very satisfying to get through that match because it wasn't pretty tennis but it was the sort of match where you just grind out and find a way to win.


Q.  How did you do it, by using the slices?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Using the slices and then starting to serve a little bit better.  You know, didn't make as many mistakes.  Went for my forehand a little bit more.  Got my service percentage up in the third set.  And also just being a little bit more aggressive.  Because it was kind of a tough match.  Because he looked a little bit lethargic out there the way he was playing, and he didn't know whether he was coming or going.  That's always tough to play against sometimes.


Q.  The weather seemed to not know whether it was coming or going?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, I know.  It was the strangest -- they said the rain was gonna be in the afternoon.  It started in the morning.  I mean, it looked like we had the doomsday cloud come over before we started.  Thought we were on that movie there, whatever it's called, that adventure movie where, you know, the storm comes and the whole world goes.


Q.  "Day After Tomorrow"?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Exactly, thank you.  But it was the strangest sort of day because one minute it's raining really hard and then we're on in 30 minutes.  It was a hard preparation today, but one to get through.


Q.  Then it got quite warm, didn't it?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, it did.  That's why I started with the ice towel, because just through experience, even though it wasn't too hot, you want to keep the temperature down and do what you can.  I've had three pretty tough matches to date, so just pleased to be through.


Q.  Is it nice to -- having had to call on that bloody-mindedness that, "I'm going to win regardless of how well I'm playing..."

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, I didn't want to lose today no matter what.  That really got me through it today.  I just refused to give up no matter what.  That was the key to the match today, was I wanted it a little bit more than he did today.


Q.  Is it good, too, to know that that's still there at this level, that you can still do that when you have to?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, it's good.  I mean, it's good to know you can win against a guy who's won a Grand Slam - fair enough, it's not on his favorite surface.  But, you know, to be able to come out and do that against a good player like him, that's a positive step.  Those are the matches you have to find a way to win, and I did that today.


Q.  Who would you rather - Robredo or Ferrero?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, Ferrero, I've got a nice record against.  I've beaten him the last three times.  But, you know, he's going to be highly motivated.  The temperature's going to be a little bit cooler, so he can have a little bit more hit on the ball.  It's going to be a similar match whether I get Ferrero or Robredo.  The only difference is one's a single-hander, one's a double-hander.  It's going to be a tough match no matter what.  I think Robredo I lost to last time here in three -- straight sets.  So another big challenge for me.


Q.  How are you holding up physically?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, physically, the body's good physically.  I mean, you know, it's a physical and mental test.  It's normal to be tired a little bit after four matches in this sort of heat.  So I'm just looking forward to the test tomorrow.  I mean, every day is a test for me and a challenge.  You know, I'm doing well so far.  But, you know, I just like to put myself there because every match you win, it makes you stronger no matter what.  It really prepares you for the US Open coming up.  It was a big match for me to win today because it keeps me -- it might get me to about 80.  Then if somehow I can win tomorrow, that jumps me up again.  So it's just so important in these sort of events to try to find a way to win the matches any which way you can.


Q.  What was it with the strings?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Oh, I just like to get the racquets redone.  I just like to get them tighter.  You know, I just like to keep the tension good.  So I just am playing with three racquets right now and just having them done up all the time, which just helps out.


Q.  Took a long time to come back, didn't it?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I had two done.  So it wasn't just one.  So that was fine.


Q.  You completely confused the ballgirl.  She was standing there at one point with the racquet.

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, I think she wanted to play maybe (laughing).  She could have probably done a better job in the first set than me, but that's all right.


Q.  Do you think you should have gotten a wildcard?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, if I need one next year, I'd like to get one.  That would be nice.  But, you know, that's the situation I'm in.  So far to date it's been good.  Obviously it helps to play, if I was still in this position, to play two matches rather than four.  But I am where I am.  I'm pleased I'm through.  I get three more bonus points, so that's a plus.


Q.  After all that's happened, do you feel like you're needing to prove yourself out here?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I just want to enjoy my tennis and I want to do the best I possibly can, and I want to finish my last few years on the circuit the way I can.  I mean, if you take the situation I've been through, I mean, almost all the guys in the locker room are in the same situation as me.  You've got 63 players.  So, you know, I was hoping for a few wildcards this summer which haven't happened, which the tour was supposed to help me out with.  But, you know, I'm just having to do it the old-fashioned way and win and do it myself.  So far to date, this summer it's been good.


Q.  How is it being without a coach, just somebody to bounce ideas off when, you know, you've played a hell of a lot of tennis in a short space of time, you've been in different situations, different surfaces, all the rest of it, to do it alone?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I think if I don't know my tennis by now, I never will know it.  You know, I'm 30, nearly 31 in a month.  I think it's quite refreshing because, you know, when you're out there, you really have to rely on yourself.  You know, your coach can help you, help you with strategy, help you with certain things.  But you have a good idea what you're going to do.  And my game is pretty simple - I mean, I'm a big server, I need to mix it up, I need to come in.  So I kind of know what I have to do.  So it's quite refreshing for me.  And I'm enjoying just being with Lucy and, you know, just having a casual sort of thing.  But who knows in the future?  But right now I'm just enjoying the way it's going.


Q.  Do you miss having a physical trainer?  You always seem to have had a physical guy with you.

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, if I'm playing these sort of matches, if I'm getting, I don't know, 14 matches or whatever it's been, or 15 matches, I don't really need to worry about that.  You know, I know the program I've done.  I mean, I worked pretty hard physically to get myself back because I wasn't in the best of shape after everything I've been through.  I've put the hours in before, and now it's paying off.  So I think I'm still pretty fit.  I did seven matches in a row -- eight matches in a row in a two-week span.  Now I've down four in five days and I still feel pretty good about tomorrow.


Q.  When was the last time you were that confident in your own body to hold up to such pressure?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, well, I think maybe the rest has helped out a little bit, that I've had the six months off.  So maybe that's a blessing for me.  It's just not worrying about things.  I think I'm a little bit more relaxed about things.  Fine, I was a little bit, you know, getting myself fired up on the court today, which sometimes you need to do.  But I think I'm just not worrying about it as much.  Sometimes the injuries are physical and mental.  Now I'm just going with the flow, and things seem to be going well.


Q.  I think you said after your back problems that you were on your second tennis life.  Is this your third one?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I don't know.  I've had so many comebacks by now, I don't know what number to call it by now.  Let's call it my "Enjoyment Period of Tennis."


Q.  You're not a Frank Sinatra fan by any chance?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, I like Frank Sinatra.  He did it his way most of the time.  I'd like a smooth ride, that would be good.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT