WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2004
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Could I have the first question for Greg, please.  
 
 
Q.  Always tough to lose, but did the fall play a huge part?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I had the momentum in the match.  Could have won in three straight set had I won that second set.  You know, I just had one or two average games.  But, no, I hurt myself a little bit in my neck and shoulders.  I was hoping it would stay warm and I could go through it, but unfortunately I just couldn't do it today.  
 
Q.  As you say, the first couple sets you actually played quite well, didn't you?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, no, I thought I played really well in the first three sets.  And even in the beginning of the fourth, before I fell.  And then things just turned around and he started playing a little bit better.  I was a little bit tentative.  You know, just lost a tough match, and that's the way it goes. 
 
Q.  Can you feel any pain now at all?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, I had a little bit of treatment.  That's why I've been so late coming in.  I'm going have treatment the next two days.  Hopefully be back in a week or so to get ready for the next few tournaments. 
 
Q.  When will you go out to Newport?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Probably Sunday, the Wimbledon finals, hopefully shoot down, hopefully shoot for a Tuesday, Wednesday start, and get ready to make my comeback and get my ranking back up.  
 
Q.  You definitely have a wildcard for Newport?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, Newport I got in the main draw.  I got straight in.  So I'm straight in that one.  Few out of Los Angeles, few out of Indianapolis.  Hopefully I'll sneak into one of the two and start working on my tennis and get it going forward.  The good thing about being ranked so low, it doesn't take much to get back up if you just start playing well. 
 
Q.  Have you had any sort of clear idea in your head how long you are going to give yourself?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I'd definitely like to give it at least another year minimum - you know, hopefully more.  I'd like to be able to have coming into Wimbledon next year at least a full schedule, whether it's playing on, you know, the main tour hopefully, and just getting back.  I think, you know, it would be great to have a full preparation.  This year, it's been all over the place, not the ideal preparation.  So, you know, considering everything, I think I played reasonably well the last two matches.  I'll give it at least another year and see how that goes.  Go from there. 
 
Q.  Given the difficulties of a year, do you consider this Wimbledon a setback or progress?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I think it's progress with every match.  I think every match I've played, I've played better.  Even though,  you know, I lost.  I haven't played a five set match in a long time.  I beat a good player in Sanguinetti.  I could have won today in three straight sets.  But, you know, it's one or two points here or there, and that's tennis.  It's progress.  Every match you're getting better with.  You know, that's the positives you take out of.  
 
Q.  You seemed to volley very well today.  Were you very happy with that?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, I think the last two days and the last few matches I've played, I've served and volleyed quite well.  I've managed to put a lot more on the volley.  So that's getting better.  You know, it's only time and practice and just getting things together.  So that was positive.  
 
Q.  You're going to be going over to Newport on the day of the men's final, you were saying. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah.  
 
Q.  Any ideas who might be playing in that final?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Every time I make predictions, I get it wrong, so I'm not making predictions.  I think, you know, Federer has got to be the clear favorite.  I practiced him before The Championships started.  He's impressed me the way he's playing.  He's playing very, very well.  You know, Roddick's playing very well.  Those are the two favorites.  You've got to think anything can happen.  Tim's got a good section to be in the semi.  We'll just have to wait and see what will happen.  But those are probably the two guys I favor.  But Federer is probably my pick at the moment, because he's playing very, very well.  
 
Q.  Have you played Newport before?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, I did.  It's the first tournament I won in '93.  It would be nice to go back there and do well.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT