AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2004
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Greg, please.  
 
 
Q.  How difficult was that today, given all the circumstances here? 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I only think it was difficult because Saturday I had a fever and have had gastroenteritis.  I've hit a half an hour of tennis balls since Saturday.  That's what made it difficult today, to be honest with you.  A lot of players have been suffering with it from Verdasco to a few other players who I won't name because they have matches today.  I don't want to put them at any disadvantage.  I have to give credit to Costa.  He played well.  He came up with some good passing shots.  I just went out there, tried to do my best, and that's all I could do.  
 
Q.  Are you going to be playing any more tournaments before your hearing? 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I don't think there's any more events scheduled.  My first event was supposed to be Milan.  So, you know, I've just got to wait and see how my tribunal goes, just go from there.  
 
Q.  Did you find that your off-court troubles were affecting you on the court?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  No.  It had nothing to do with today.  Today, as I mentioned before in my first statement that I just gave to Neil, was I had gastroenteritis.  I had a heavy fever last Saturday and Sunday.  It wasn't the ideal preparation hitting half an hour of tennis balls coming into a major and playing such a good player like Costa. 
 
Q.  Did the humidity out there today add to all that today? 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, it definitely doesn't help.  You know, I was hoping for a little less wind so I could serve a few more aces.  It was hard to control the serve today.  Last week, Verkerk retired in his match because of that, as well.  He only played one set and then got off the court.  But I wanted to at least go out there and give it a go.  If you can get through a match somehow, then these things go away,, it usually takes about four days to get rid of it. 
 
Q.  How many players do you think have fallen to the same illness?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I don't know.  There are definitely a few I know because I've spoken to a few.  I've spoken to at least three or four.  
 
Q.  Is there a common cause?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I don't know whether it's food poisoning, whatever it is.  One of the doctors actually has it, as well.  So I don't know what it is.  But that's just life.  Can't do anything about it. 
 
Q.  Will you go away from these three weeks of playing, thinking, "At least I got back on the court"?  Obviously, you have the court case.  Do you feel you've done what you wanted to do on the court?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  You know, I'm going to take -- the doctor told me not to fly the next one or two days, just to stay here.  Then I'll have a few days off, get back to training.  Hopefully then I'll have my tribunal, and hopefully things will go the way I hope they go, and then get back to my tennis, which will be great.  So I can hopefully try to build on from what I've done here. 
 
Q.  Is it definitely going to be in Montreal?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, that's where the tribunal is taking place, yes.  
 
Q.  Looking forward to it? 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I don't know.  I mean, how can you look forward to something like that, to be quite honest with you.  You're put in a situation.  You know, obviously, I wish it would have all been kept quiet.  As everybody knows, I had no choice but to go public with it.  So, you know, I don't know if you ask the other six, seven players that were involved in the same situation, the same question, I don't think any of them would say they're looking forward to such a thing.  I mean, I just hope that the result comes that I desire.  And, you know, I know I'm innocent in the situation.  I hope that's seen in the situation.  
 
Q.  Was there any moment today when you thought if things don't pan out for you this year, you wouldn't be doing that again?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  No, that didn't go through my head.  All I was trying to think about was the match, trying to find a way to get through it today so that I could try to play on Thursday.  You know, physically it was just difficult because of having the fever and the gastroenteritis. 
 
Q.  Do you think it might go through your head in the next couple of days?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think it's only human nature to think about it.  You know, obviously I'll be in contact with my lawyers and seeing what's going on with that, just preparing my case.  So obviously you're just going to have to focus and deal with the realities that are put in front of you. 
 
Q.  Do you know who any of the six or seven other guys are who tested above the limit?  Will you be trying to talk to them to help you prepare your case for Montreal?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I only know one, which is Ulihrach.  The other six, I don't know at the moment.  But, you know, obviously they're supposed to have the confidentiality, as I said before.  I believe they're all innocent.  It would be nice to be able to receive the information.  But time will tell. 
 
Q.  You plan on working pretty hard with the lawyers the next two or three weeks?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, they've been working hard, preparing, doing the best they can to prepare the case at the moment.  
 
Q.  How hard has it been not to have anyone to sound off against?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  No, I've had support.  I mean, my wife's been great.  She's been working with my lawyers.  If I'm calling at any hour, she's been very supportive.  Before I started this trip, I decided I was going to come here myself to play.  I didn't expect this all to become public.  That was my decision to be here and to play this way.  That's what I wanted to do.  
 
Q.  How important is it for your case to get those six names and have those people on your side?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I'm sure all the players I've spoken to have been on-site.  Players meeting, you can't go into details, because obviously it's private, but the support was tremendous and the questions that were asked were very relevant.  So, you know,  I think that I can't go into details, but -- I just can't go into details (smiling).  They are important, but I just can't go into details, because then I'd be breaking what's been discussed in my situation.  
 
Q.  Are you actually trying to seek them out, trying to find them? 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I'm not doing that at the moment myself.  But, you know, I'm hoping some of them will come forward and help me because they've been put in such a similar situation.  
 
Q.  Has your support been unanimous?  Anybody who has said anything negative to you?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  No, I haven't had any negative words said to me or anything like that.  It's been very, very positive.  Players have asked me questions and certain things.  I've referred them to my statement, which I think is pretty conclusive if you read the three pages that I've broughten out  that explain the situation. 
 
Q.  Is there anything new to report in your case?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I can't report anything because I have to sit in front of the tribunal.  Tribunals are the ones who make decisions.  You know, obviously I just want to respect that and keep the case, you know, between us and try to sort it out.  
 
Q.  Obviously, it's been a very stressful time.  What do you think you've learned over the last three weeks? 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I think, you know, it's been great just the overwhelming support from the public, the support from my family, my friends, from people around you.  You really know who's behind you 100%.  You know, it's great to see that I've gotten such support from the public.  Everybody I've spoken to about the situation feels very sympathetic and says, "You know, we're behind you 100%.  You know, this is terrible, it's come out in public.  We're just behind you."  So that's been probably the best thing that's happened in this situation, if there is something positive.  
 
Q.  Will you be hoping that either someone like Bohdan or some other players actually come and give evidence on your behalf?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, that's what my lawyers and my team will be sorting out.  And Bohdan said anything he can do for me, he's more than happy to do.  
 
Q.  Do you find it ironic that the substance that's been quoted here was used by Mark McGwire to set a home run record?  It's fine in baseball. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think you have to read the press statement.  It's very important, the response.  Because the levels that we're talking about are so minimal and have no use whatsoever.  You know, they're just basically levels that there's no benefit there whatsoever.  So, you know, I think you just have to understand and read the situation and read the case.  You'll understand the situation.  You also have to understand the unique fingerprint which I think is very, very important in the situation.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT