adidas International
January 14, 2004
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Greg, please. 


Q.  Bad luck in a way.  

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, no, I felt I played better today than I did in my first match.  So even though I lost, I'm pleased with the performance today.  You know, it was one breakpoint in the first set.  That was the first set, 6-3.   Second set, played almost immaculate tennis.  No unforced errors.  6-1.  Was excellent.  Then the third set, saved one breakpoint.  He had  -- I had 15-40.  I should have picked the one down the T on the first one; I picked the second one.  Just too big on the serve.  That's too good.  Then I held my 15-40.  Got back to deuce.  Had game point.  And if he can come up with three passing shot winners, that's too good.  That's why I guess he's No. 9 in the world right now and a Wimbledon finalist.  So, you know, all credit to him.  He did it when it counted today.  I didn't feel like I lost the match at all today.  I felt a much more improved performance over yesterday - over the day before, it was.  Just looking forward to Melbourne.

Q.  Is it good to have a tussle even though it was a disappointing outcome?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  No, it's great to have a three-set match.  I haven't had a three-set match since September.  That's a positive.  Now I know I can go three sets.   Serve-and-volley game is getting better.  He's one of the best servers in the world, and yet I returned fairly well there.  That's a plus for me as well.

Q.  When you came off, it wasn't as desperate about losing as maybe normally.  Is that because of the circumstances, also because of how you played?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I think I played well.  I thought he won the match at the end of the day.  You know, if I make three deep volleys and he hits three passing shots, you're obviously disappointed that you lose, but you've also got to be realistic.  That is my fourth match this year.  And under everything that's going on at the moment, I'm extremely pleased with the performance.  You know, he is a very good player.

Q.  I guess with everything else that is going on then, sort of winning and losing a tennis match doesn't seem quite so important?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I still  - I still like to win, though (smiling).  I'd be much more happier had I got a few more matches here this week.  But all credit to Mark.  He pulled it out when he needed to today. 

Q.  In terms of everything else that is going on, from your point of view, has anything changed over the last couple of days?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  No.  I mean, there's nothing new.  Just at the moment I'm just preparing my case and getting ready for my hearing.  That's about it.  Now I'm just trying to focus on my tennis.  I'm trying to play well and enjoy it.  I've got the first Grand Slam of the year coming up in Melbourne.  I think if I can continue to improve  - I'm going to have a few more days there to continue to improve  - if I can get slightly better, then maybe I can do all right there.

Q.  Are you surprised at how well you're playing considering you've played so little?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, no, I am , I'm pleased.  Those last two matches were very good.  It was a huge improvement from the first week, so I'm keeping my fingers crossed that I can improve again. 

Q.  Do you feel that now that it's out in the open, it's now allowing you to go back to playing your tennis as well; you haven't been carrying it just for yourself, privately? 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I wished it didn't come out publicly, but as you all know, I had no choice but to go public with the matter.  So, you know, I'm just, you know...  The support's been fantastic.  I mean, back home it's been brilliant.  Even here, you saw the crowds, the way they behaved immaculately.  They gave me support and cheered me from the first ball to the last ball even though I was playing an Australian.  I can't ask for more.  I think people feel sympathetic to my situation and have been very supportive.  I can't ask for more.

Q.  Obviously, the attention is a bit more intense at a Grand Slam. 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yep.

Q.  Are you sort of having to mentally prepare for walking in to a bit more of a storm in Melbourne? 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I think everything's been said that needs to be said, so...  I think these last two days have been quite refreshing.  It's been quite quiet, it's been quite focused on tennis.  I think all the journalists have asked me the questions that need to be asked.  Hopefully, in Melbourne I'll only be asked about tennis, which will be nice for me.

Q.  What about the locker room?  You said this week the support amongst your fellow players was good.  Is that still holding up?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, that's still holding up.  I've had a lot of sympathy; everybody's wishing me well.  It's been absolutely brilliant.  The players have been great to me.

Q.  Are you in fairly constant contact with your lawyers back in London?  Is that a distraction, in a way, as well? 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, you know, I have contact with them, but they realize I have a job to do as well.  So, you know, I am in contact, and things are being done, but, you know, I'm trying to focus on my tennis because this is what I'm enjoying to do.  You know, this week I've really been able to put that aside and focus on my tennis, which I'm really happy about.  Hopefully, I can do the same for Melbourne.

Q.  In the circumstances, obviously Melbourne being a Grand Slam event, how important is it for you, this tournament, this upcoming tournament?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, it's always important, a major.  That's what all tennis players play for.  I still think my best shot at a major is Wimbledon.  I'm 30 years old, but I still think I can have a good performance in Melbourne.  Melbourne is a very difficult Grand Slam.  You've got the heat, you've got the wind.  Like yesterday was scorching hot; today is cold and drizzly.  So it's just dealing with the elements and having to try to play seven matches, which makes a Grand Slam such a challenge.  I'm not saying I'm going to be there for seven matches, but, you know, you've got to try to have that frame of mind when you go in, no matter how you're doing.

Q.  What would success be for you in Melbourne? 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Success for me would be to play well and to continue improving.  If I can play well, if I can improve from today's performance, I think I'll do well there.  Because the first match I played well, but improved today; I had a better start.  I gave myself opportunities against one of the best servers in the world.  So a result which would be good would be to improve my performance from today.  And if I do that, then I'll be quite dangerous to a lot of players. 

Q.  Do you regard yourself as a dangerous floater? 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I don't think a lot of players enjoy playing me, to be quite honest with you.  I'm unpredictable.  Like Guccione, the guy who beat Ferrero yesterday, nobody's heard of him, he's an 18-year-old, he comes out and serves rockets and ends up beating the No. 3 player in the world at 447.  You know, if you've got a weapon like that, anything can happen.

Q.  Would you say you're a man with nothing to lose, just given you haven't played and everything else?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, I mean, I have nothing to lose.  I'm 30, you've got to remember; I'm not 21.  This is a period in my career where I want to enjoy it and do my best and enjoy, hopefully, the next few years I'll have to play. 

Q.  Are you going on to Melbourne tomorrow?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yes, I will be.  I've already got my practice set up for Friday.  So I have a little bit of a break tomorrow, refocus, and put in the hard work over the next three, four days.

Q.  You're practicing at Melbourne Park?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  At Melbourne Park itself. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT