US OPEN
September 2, 2002
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions for Greg. 


Q.  Do you know how you lost that?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I lost the match; he didn't win the match tonight.  I mean, that's the first thing.  I mean, 5-3, serving for the first set, you know, double-faults really hurt me that first set, especially when I had set point at 5-3 last night.  After that, in the tiebreaker, you can't double-fault twice again.  I played two horrendous tiebreakers.  You know, I tried my best.  But unfortunately, when it counted, I gave him a little bit too much respect.  Finally, you can't give a player that status, that much leeway.

Q.  Did you feel he was there for the taking?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, he was.  I mean, he's not playing that great.  I mean, I don't feel  -- I'd be surprised if he wins his next match against Haas.  To be honest with you, I'd be very surprised.  I think, you know, like I said, I lost the match rather than he won the match.  The first set was very important, 5-3.  I should have closed that out.  Then in the tiebreaker, double-faulting twice, you can't spot someone four nothing in a tiebreaker, with Sampras' serve, expect to win that set.  I got it going in the second, because I returned well, got two breaks.  I wasn't serving particularly well.  Third set, didn't go after it at all in the tiebreaker again.  Finally showed him a little less respect, finally won the fourth set.  The fifth set, anything can happen.  He played a good game at 4-5. 

Q.  You said you'd be surprised if he won his next match.  Is that because of the quick turnaround?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  No, nothing to do with the turnaround. 

Q.  The way he's playing?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I just think the way he's playing, to be honest with you.  I don't really see it.  If I look at the section, I'd say Haas is playing really well, Roddick is playing really well, Hewitt and Agassi are the four guys I like at this tournament right now.  Obviously, I'm extremely disappointed. 

Q.  Could you break that down and be a little bit more specific.  In what ways is Pete not playing that well stroke-wise?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  You've just got to look at the returns, for one.  A lot of second serves.  Guys who return a little bit better will really punish him for that, can really dictate from the back.  I just think the movement is not the same and the fitness isn't the same.  He's a step and a half slow coming to the net.  You can get the ball down.  He's just not the same player.  I mean, he's a great player from the past.  You're used to seeing Pete Sampras, 13 Grand Slam champion.  It's not the same player.

Q.  The half volley?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  If you're one and a half steps slower, you're not in as quick, are you?  He's still a good player, no question about it, but he's not the great player.  That's what cost me the match, showing him too much respect over four sets.

Q.  Do you think his current ranking is an accurate reflection of where Pete is ability-wise in the game right now?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, if he doesn't get to the finals, he's going to take a big drop.  You know, the men's game is tough.  If you lose a step, look what happened to Chang so far.  I mean, the guy was one of the greatest players ever.  He lost one step, half a step.  This is very tough.  The men's tour is stronger than ever.  It's a great, great game, a great tour right now.  I couldn't think of tennis being any better.

Q.  Putting aside your own personal feelings, is it sad to see a once truly great champion become an ordinary player?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I guess he still enjoys playing, but I guess he's done it all really.  It's a question of his choice, what he wants to do now.  You know, obviously I would have loved have beaten him tonight.  It's still beating Sampras, whether you like it or not.  You know what I'm saying?  I think that's a decision he has to make.  You know, it's something he has to do.  It's definitely not the same standard it was before.

Q.  Having played so well just before coming in here, how much more disappointing is it?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, it's very disappointing.  I mean, there's no other way to put it.  This is a Grand Slam.  I thought I played well at Wimbledon.  Didn't take my opportunity there.  I mean, this I thought I had a great opportunity again.  But I've just got to look at the positive and say, "I'm playing well, feeling fit, feeling strong."  Next year, 2003, I've really got to get it together at the majors and try to push it stronger, do better.

Q.  If you can put your finger on something and say, "This is what I have to sharpen or improve most," what would you say it was?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think just showing players less respect.  I think it's going out there just when I was 4 in the world with that little bit more arrogance, little bit more, you know, punishing, just a little bit more aggressive sort of style that I used to play.  Physically, I can do that again now.  I've done that off and on.  Now I need to do that continually.  You know, it's an attitude that I need to bring onto the court.  My game I feel is better in all aspects and can still be improved, but I think it's more the attitude that needs to come on the court.

Q.  Do you think Pete got a little too much respect from the officiating?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  The chair umpire, I felt he did a good job.  I thought he kept the crowd in check.  You know, it didn't come down to close calls, it came down to me taking my opportunities when I created a lot.  Especially that first set was very key in the way I played the tiebreaker.  The close calls wouldn't have had an effect had I taken my opportunities when they arose.

Q.  They seemed to upset you when the calls were made, especially when the woman changed her call after Pete looked at her. 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I won the point, though, and won the game.  It really became irrelevant, to be honest with you.  I shouldn't even have been in that fifth set.  I should have been home and dry in three or four sets.  You know, I only have myself to blame, to be honest with you.

Q.  You talked about attitude and going out there with more arrogance.  Isn't it a kind of Catch-22, if you haven't had the really big results recently... 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I beat the Top 3 players in the world.  There shouldn't be a feeling for not feeling like that.  It's not like I haven't been to a US Open finals; it's not like I haven't won 12 titles; it's not like I haven't beaten Agassi, Sampras, Roddick, players of that stature; it's not that I haven't been able to do it.  It's a question of now saying, "Here I am, play the tennis ball, just think that you can do it."  That's the bottom line, taking that.

Q.  Fans pretty much judge the current state of tennis based on recent Slam results.  Do players do the same thing?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I think players definitely -- if you want to be a great player, you've got to win a major.  That's what sets you apart from everybody else and makes you great.  I mean, a benchmark is also getting into the Top 10.  I think that's where it's at.  I've gotten to the Top 10; I've gotten to a Slam final.  But that's my goal which keeps me going, is trying to win a major.  It just makes me hungrier, you know, just needing to get that little bit more of killer instinct out there, taking it to a level rather than playing who I did. 

Q.  He said there were times you were stalling on his serve. 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  If there's people walking behind in the crowd, you know, you're going to ask to stop.  If a ball kid drops a ball in the back, I'm sure he would stop, as well.  Pete likes to play very quick.  I'm going to play at the pace that I think is right.  Everything was fine with my pace. 

Q.  You come from a country that is absolutely in love with a good wager.  What are the odds that Pete Sampras will be this year's US Open champion?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I wouldn't put any money on it, let's put it like that.  I mean, my picks I told you before:  Agassi, Hewitt, they look very good, Haas and Roddick.  I'd say those are my four guys right now.  I think Agassi and Roddick are the top two Americans who have a chance right now.  I think they're playing very, very well.  That's what my pick is at the tournament right now. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT