WESTERN AND SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 5, 2002
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GREG RUSEDSKI: I was really pleased because I had two tough draws to start off the hard court season this season.  I played really well.  I played well at Wimbledon; especially in the Roddick match and lost a tough one to Malisse.  So the tennis is improving all the time and getting better. 
 
Q.  That tiebreak was important, wasn't it, psychologically?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI: I think so.  I would have liked to get to a better start, I had two games at Love-30, two forehands I missed to try and get an early break.  But then played a really good tiebreaker, I think it was like three probably important points, it was in the first set Love-30 down to my serve with a lob and he hit the through-the-legs point.  Then the 5-3  point in the tiebreaker where I hit that dink crosscourt and got the point. Then probably that forehand he missed at set point for him.  That was probably three really big points that first set.  
 
Q.  You mixed up the speed of your serve a lot.  You hit the winner off the last point of the first set about 135, but you were serving down to 108, 109 and --
 
GREG RUSEDSKI: You try to get a good percentage in there.  You are going to mix it up with him because if you give him all one speed he's too good of a returner.  You have to do a lot of work out there. You have to do a lot of running, a lot of scrapping and just be really patient.  I think it paid off just the way I mixed everything today.  
 
Q.  But also quite a lot of breakpoints you didn't convert in the second set, weren't there?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, I played pretty well though.  I mean, I broke early in the first which was important.  Then I hit one backhand passing shot which is going for a clean winner, hits the top of the net and could go anywhere.  Next breakpoint after that I hit a great return down-the-line.  He hits a crosscourt angle volley which I missed a forehand on.  The point after that I come in run full blast, hit a forehand and he gets a reaction on the backhand volley, so actually played the points pretty well, but I just couldn't finish  a lot sooner but stayed with it and competed which was important.  I managed to get that break to go up 5-2 and then 6-2 comfortably. 
 
Q.  When you play a guy like him, you kind of in the back of your mind thinking that if you can get under his skin he's liable to be a bit fragile?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, I don't think he likes playing me particularly.  I have a pretty good record against him, 4 and 1 something like that, career victories.  So, it's hard to play a lefty who mixes it up a little bit with him, but he's a great player and you know, I think he has been pretty consistent this year.  He's led the race most of the season this year as No. 2.  So he's proved himself to be a good player.  I would be pretty happy where he is right now.  
 
Q.  When things go wrong for him, he shows it rather obviously...
 
GREG RUSEDSKI: He shows it, but that's his personality.  It is a little bit like an Ivanisevic, but, you know, I got broken and then 15-40, didn't break him again then he 15-40 on me and I had to play 4 very good points, so he does come back on it but it was just a constant keeping the pressure on him and managing to get some of those big points because he still created opportunities to get back in the match when he was down. 
 
Q.  He doesn't think he gives encouragement to his opponents by the way he shows his emotion --
 
GREG RUSEDSKI: He does a little bit, but all he needs is one or two hits here or there and he's back so you have to stay on top of him.  You can see him sometimes he will get very upset on the court but then all of a sudden -- I mean, I nearly got broken.  I hadn't made one unforced error on the game where I was down 15-40.  I hadn't -- he had hit two passing shot winners, one good approach shot and next thing you know I am down 15-40, so he does have that thing where it can go up-and-down a little bit but I think he is a lot better now.  
 
Q.  After Wimbledon did it take a while to get over that?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, it was a wonderful opportunity, no question about it.  If I could have gotten through that Malisse match it would have been a great opportunity, but, you know, I just had a break, I got back to my hard work and worked very hard physically.  The heat don't affect me, so you know, my goal is the US Open, and getting a win tonight really sets me towards that goal because last week was like Philippoussis at Queens Club a little bit, losing to Martin, probably a little bit more difficult circumstance being back in Canada and having a few foot faults, few difficult things against me.  Then this week, you know, puts a good preparation; that's what I have to do is aim for a new goal and then there's always next year, but obviously it was a great opportunity. 
 
Q.  You have often talked up your wish to do well on grass and at Wimbledon, but in fact, it seems to be your best surface, doesn't it?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI: Not until I got to the finals because I think I was 0 for 5 or something like that at the US Open beforehand.  But I think I have improved a lot.  I think since 97 I have gotten better on the hard court season.  I think I deal with the heat better than most players and in the past I used to have problems with the heat but I think last two years I have really showed that I am strong when it gets hot, when it get humid and I can last that three to five sets in the heat which I think just helps me on this surface; while at Wimbledon, it's different, it's the rain, it's the cold weather, not really heat, per se, and it is a different sort of mental test. 
 
Q.  How have you improved your ability to cope with heat?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI: More training, more work, more relaxation, I think.  I think people who struggle in the heat usually are people that are very, how would you say, waste a lot of energy and are very tight and that really can tire you out sometimes or unless you are 20, 21 like Lleyton Hewitt who can do it -- he's an exception to the rule who is really pumped from first point to last point, but he's even calmed down to deal with heat as well. 
 
Q.  How have you been able to relax (inaudible) --
 
GREG RUSEDSKI: I think it is just getting confidence in your game.  I think it is in believing in yourself a little bit more.  I think I have been out there, I don't know, it's been 11 years so if I haven't learned from the experience now, I don't think I will ever deal with it, will I?  It is just a bit of a maturation process as well. 
 
Q.  What are the conditions like out there?  Everyone was saying in Toronto the courts were faster; how do they play here?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI: It is a little less bouncy. Last year it was kicking slightly higher, even though it bounces -- doesn't bounce as high as Toronto and the ball seems slightly a little bit softer, but it's fairly quick.  It's a good court.  I prefer this week's court, slightly different, it is a little slower, ball is a little bit lofter, but it is still good for my game.   I think it is a good opportunity, but I am in a difficult section as you can see.  
 
Q.  What about possibility of Todd again?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI: I look forward to it.  I look forward to a rematch.  I think it will be a different sort of atmosphere than last week, and it will be a great test for me so if he wins and gets through I will really look forward to that match because I don't really like to lose to people two or three times in a row.  Hopefully I learned something from the last match and can get through the next time. 
 
Q.  That net cord thing seems to go in your favor tonight whereas it didn't back in Toronto?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI: I guess so.  Sometimes it goes in your favor; sometimes it doesn't.  But I think the first win is so important to get some momentum and I think that will help having a match under each other.  I am just concentrating fully on the tennis and that's the most important thing. 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT