THE STELLA ARTOIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 12, 2006
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT










 Q.  What did you do? 
 GREG RUSEDSKI:  Last week, I was playing with Thomas Johansson, and I just did the splits and hurt my hip.  So, you know, coming into the event, I asked for a Tuesday start.  We warned the tournament director that, you know, had they put me on Monday, there's a chance I might not be fully fit to go the whole distance.  But he obviously ignored that, knowing that an extra 24 hours would have made a massive difference for me. 
 So, you know, I'm absolutely disappointed that they wouldn't even listen to a word I said.  And, you know, I thought for one set I played a really good first set.  Then after that, my movement started going a bit.  Then that was it really today. 

 Q.  What did the physio say that the problem is? 
 GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, we just think it's either just a muscle, just the muscle -- the hip was basically strained.  I'm going to get an MRI on it and then some ultrasound today to see what is exactly the problem. 

 Q.  Was it painful or just niggling? 
 GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, it was painful.  I just couldn't move, as you saw at the end.  So there was no point in continuing today. 

 Q.  Short term? 
 GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, hopefully short term, you know.  I think it would have probably been all right for Tuesday.  It would have made a huge -- more difference, because I took Friday off completely.  I had half a hit on Saturday and a light hit on Sunday.  Then, you know, the one more day would have probably had everything done. 
 So I think we'll just have to wait and see how long it takes. 

 Q.  Was it as bad today as it was on Thursday? 
 GREG RUSEDSKI:  Not as bad initially, but it just was no power in the leg to do what I wanted to do.  As you saw, I couldn't get back, forth. 

 Q.  You don't think you've gone back to as far as -- 
 GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I could have made it worse, but that's why I stopped.  I decided I'm not going to take a risk.  The last - what was it I played? -  I don't know, six or seven games, it wasn't really the same standard of tennis that we saw the first set and a half, which was quite a good standard, I thought. 

 Q.  Did you get no answers at all when you asked? 
 GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, no, my coach walked in and said, If you put Greg on, there's a chance he might have to pull out after a set because he just needs a little bit more day of recovery.  They just totally ignored it. 
 So, you know, that's just unfortunate.  You'd think they'd want to help their British players do well here instead of hinder them.  It's not like they couldn't have put my second-round -- my first-round match on a Tuesday.  It's not a big deal to give me an extra 24 hours. 

 Q.  Did it cross your mind about pulling out altogether? 
 GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I wanted to give it a go at least.  You know, I felt pretty good, but the extra 24 hours would have been a lot better. 

 Q.  Were you given no reason why you were asked to play today? 
 GREG RUSEDSKI:  I don't know.  I'm used to being screwed on schedules by now, to put it bluntly.  You know, five times this year on the tour I've asked for Tuesday or Wednesday, and I've played Monday every time.  So that's not abnormal for me. 
 But, you know, you expect - at least in Britain, at home - to at least get one request granted. 

 Q.  Should have asked for a Monday start. 
 GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, that's what I'm thinking to myself.  Then I'll play Wednesday last match, 10:30 p.m. (smiling). 

 Q.  How's your feeling at the moment, optimistic? 
 GREG RUSEDSKI:  (Laughing.)  Well, I get to watch some football on the telly, that's about it at the moment. 
 But, no, I think I'll be fine for Wimbledon.  I'm not sure what's going to happen for Nottingham yet.  I'm going to have to obviously get the MRIs and get the ultrasound, which I can get tonight at seven, and then the MRI tomorrow morning.  Then, you know, I have to figure out whether I'll be good enough for Nottingham or not. 
 So, you know, obviously I'm just going to have to take it day by day and see how it goes. 

 Q.  It would be a pity to miss that one. 
 GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, it would be because I've won it twice.  I've always played very well there.  Obviously, I would have liked to play well because I felt for a set I was playing some really good tennis.  One of the few guys who still comes to the net here. 
 So, you know, I was enjoying it.  But sometimes -- it's better it happens now than at Wimbledon.  So that's maybe the only blessing in disguise to look at. 

 Q.  Jean-Pierre is with you? 
 GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, Jean-Pierre has been taking care of me since Thursday.  I've been -- Friday I was there for seven hours, the day, and then Saturday I was over there for another five hours.  Then Sunday most of the day as well. 

 Q.  Were you at Jean-Pierre's place? 
 GREG RUSEDSKI:  No, he's just been at Queen's all day for all the players.  He's just been taking care of me as much as he possibly can. 
 After I get done here, I'm off to see him again, and try to get the treatment, figure this thing out and get it ready for Wimbledon. 

 Q.  It happened when you were playing? 
 GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, practicing.  I was practicing with Thomas and I just did the full splits because the grass was a little bit lush.  That kind of hurt the hip.  So, you know, I'm not as flexible as a Clijsters or someone like that, that can do those full splits. 
 But, you know, I'll just do my best.  So let's hope it's just a blessing for, you know, it happened here this week and then I'll be ready for Wimbledon, which will be the key. 

 Q.  Prior to this happening, were you approaching the grass court season -- 
 GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, I was looking very optimistic.  I felt very comfortable with my game.  I thought I returned pretty well the first set.  I thought when I was going after my first and my second, I was hitting my second around 115 in the corners.  So I've got to play like I did that first set.  I played two slightly tentative service games when I was up 30-Love to lose my serve. 
 At least I got a little bit of time on the grass.  I know I just have to really keep on being aggressive, working on those things and get healthy.  Those two things will be the key for me this grass court season. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT