WIMBLEDON
July 2, 2002
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Greg for you. 


Q.  Were you too stressed at the end of the match?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  No, I don't think I was too stressed at the end of the match.  It just came down to one missed volley on breakpoint, and then one forehand up the line I missed by about three inches.  So, you know, tennis comes down to one or two points.  I had a lot of chances throughout the match, and he had chances.  And took his chances and I didn't take mine. 

Q.  How did yesterday's suspension actually affect your game today?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, it's tough to come out and play one set.  You know, I thought I started well and did the right things.  You know, it came down to maybe two balls at the end for the match.  You know, one volley, as I said, and one forehand up the line.  When he needed it, he came through.  Last night maybe it would have been better if we stopped at 3-All or something like that.  But, you know, this is the way tennis goes.  He took advantage and he played well.

Q.  Did you find the crowd and the noise they made worrying you or was the expectation something you could thrive on?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  No, I think it's the expectation you can thrive on.  I think the crowd's been great.  That's why I applauded them at the end because they've been wonderful throughout The Championship, have showed wonderful and tremendous support.  Even when I lost, I at least wanted to acknowledge their support for the two weeks of The Championships.

Q.  How does this rank as disappointments at Wimbledon?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  It's obviously disappointing.  I mean, you know, it was a great opportunity.  I thought I played the better tennis in the five sets, but I just didn't win the important points.  And that's what tennis comes down to, it comes down to two or three points here or there and taking them.  You can have the momentum, but if you don't take it when it counts, then you end up the wrong way.  Unfortunately, he took his opportunities and I didn't take mine. 

Q.  What is your plan now?  Holiday?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I haven't thought about it yet.  But I'll be back next year, and I'm going to get ready for the US Open now.  So that's the next goal. 

Q.  Lucy looked rather upset at the end.  Do you think it's sometimes harder for those watching?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I mean, she knows how much it means to me.  And obviously, you know, she's just disappointed for me because she supports me all the time.

Q.  You obviously clearly feel you have winning Wimbledon inside you. 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think I have a chance, and I think I've got quite a few more years.  I was really happy with my team, preparations everybody did together.  I think I've got the people around me now that can help me to get there.  So, you know, I'm just going to have to come back next year a little bit stronger and just take my chances.

Q.  How good is this guy?  He didn't surprise you?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I knew he's a good player.  He's very crafty because he's got a long reach, he's quick, he's flowy.  He makes shots out of nothing sometimes.  He's not a consistent player, but he's a flashy player, the way he plays.  Like, you know, he just was very loose the whole time when he plays.  You know, he's a good player.  There's no question about it.

Q.  Has he got a shot to win this thing?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, he's one of eight guys who's left now.  But realistically, I think it's going to be tough still with Hewitt in the draw and the other top players.

Q.  Could you see a final of two baseliners?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Possibly this year.  It could happen. 

Q.  And is it just because they're playing better or is the court playing differently?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Everybody knows the grass is much slower.  There's no question about it.  You can see it from the rallies and how guys are getting hits on returns and all sorts of things.  You know, I mean, I talked to Bjorkman in Nottingham.  And he said the speed of the grass from Nottingham to Wimbledon was quite a huge difference.  But, you know, if you serve well and you volley well, it doesn't make a difference.

Q.  You talk about those crucial few points.  Is it down to luck or something you can go and work with your team about?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  It's a combination of both, I'd say.  It's things you can work on, and it's things you need to take advantage of.  You know, instead of going for the forehand down the line on breakpoint, maybe just bring it back cross-court.  So it's just one or two things here or there.  Tennis, there's not a huge difference, as you can see from the game.

Q.  All the expectation's on Tim now.  Will that inspire him or scare him?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I just wish him well.  You know, it's a great opportunity.  You know, just as he goes out there and does his best, that's all he can do.

Q.  Do you think he can win it?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, he's one of eight guys who's left.  If you're still left in the tournament, you've got a great chance. 

Q.  You said last night that it might have been better in hindsight if you come off at 3-All.  Was there any discussion?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I was hoping to get out of there in four, to be honest with you.  So didn't work out that way, unfortunately. 

Q.  Can you talk about the great point, the alleged double hit, which on TV looks like a double hit?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I just kept moving my racquet through it.  I don't know what happened there.  You'll have to look at the replay.  I mean, I don't know if it was a double hit or not.  I just kept my motion at one motion through, and that's all there was to it.

Q.  The point was quite spectacular. 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, I mean, he hits the ball through the legs, he does things.  So, you know, you have to come out somehow and counter it. 

Q.  The breakpoint when you hit the volley into the net, you appeared to take your eye off the ball.  Is that what happened?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I just think I just missed the volley, the bottom line.  It's a little bit windy out there.  The way I got broken, I played a good first point, got to 15-All, then he kind of hit a high lob sort of return that was really tough to deal with, hit a good lob, came to 30-All.  He hit a good passing shot again, so I'd done nothing wrong at 30-40.  Then he made me play a ball.  Gusted a little bit.  Just didn't make the shot, nothing more, nothing less.  Just got to make that shot next time.

Q.  On those long points in the last game, does the tension rachet up for the players as it does for the crowd?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think I was pretty relaxed because I felt I could still get back into the match, and I nearly did.  It would have been interesting had I had a second serve on one of those two breakpoints.  You know, first one he comes up with an ace.  Second one, you know, I  -- if I would have got a second serve, maybe I would have chipped and charged.  But you've just got to keep it in play because the pressure's on him really to finish it off.  You know, he did the job.  But I felt I was still back in the match and had a chance to get back.  That's the way she goes.  He's not a character who gets tense.  As you can see from his body language out there, he's pretty loose. 

Q.  Do you wish you had chipped and charged more so on his serve, put him under more pressure?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  The problem, he's a difficult player to play because the problem being is if you give him a target, he loves a target.  So you've almost got to play a game which is rather ugly with him because if you come in, keep on chipping, chipping, chipping, he's going to keep passing, passing, passing.  He likes to be wide on the wings.  Down the middle, he's not as good, but on the wings he's very dangerous.  You know, if I chipped and charged I think more off the first ball, I might have got myself in more trouble.  So I think the strategy was right; it was just one or two points.

Q.  Do you feel with so many players not playing Wimbledon this year, and with some of the Top 10 players being already out of the draw, that this was perhaps your best opportunity to win the whole tournament?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I think it was a great opportunity.  But if I look at my section, it was a pretty rough section of all the sections in the tournament.  I did the best I could.  You know, there's still going to be next year.  There's not many grass court players out there.  Maybe next year they'll keep the grass a little bit quicker.  Who knows.  So you've just got to look at it:  I'm still young, I'm only 28, so I've still got a few more years left in me to do well. 

Q.  You talk about the grass court players.  Doesn't the example of the South Americans show there is no specialty really anymore?  In fact, there's a lot more players that can play on any ground? 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think they've evened out the grass now, I think, in that respect, as you can see.  So you're going to have probably more upsets and different sorts of styles.  You've never seen so many baseliners so deep in the tournament.  You know, usually you'll see Agassi, who's the only baseliner who really goes deep on grass, and Borg in the past history, but that was wooden racquets, so it was a little bit slower back then.

Q.  What do you think the specific things they've done to slow down the court?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I don't know.  You'd have to  -- it's just the way the grass is grown or something, plus the dry weather.  It's a combination of a few things.  I mean, it's the ball, the court.  But that's not an excuse.  At the end of the day, you've just got to win, no matter what.  If you're serving 130, hit the corners, you don't care what you're playing on.

Q.  Indoor carpet, they make it more granular.  What can you do with grass to slow it down?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think it's just the way they cut the grass, the way they grow it, just the dryness of it, different things.  Just the balls - the ball just fluffs more.

Q.  Who is your tip to win it?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I have no idea.  If you would have said to me that Sampras, Agassi would all be out in the second round, and Safin...  I'm not a betting man.  Every time I try to make a prediction, I've been wrong.  I'll leave it on that one.

Q.  Haven't got a hunch?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  It's so open.  It's so open that I don't see one clear favorite.  I can see like, I mean, there's probably four or five guys left who can still win it. 

Q.  Is one of those Tim?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, I think he's got a good chance.  There's Philippoussis, Krajicek, Tim, Hewitt.  Malisse, you never know, because he could just keep swinging and it could go.  You know, there's guys that can do.  There's no predictability.  I mean, I don't think he's one of the five, but you never know.  Who knows.  I can't guess.  If I could, then that would be great.  Then I'd know whether I should enter or not. 

Q.  If Philippoussis were to go on and win this after Ivanisevic last year, would that give you more confidence that you could come in and do it next year?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think there's only a few handful of guys, 10 guys, who can really win The Championships.  This is an opportunity for someone new to come out and win it.  I don't know if Krajicek is going to win or what.  But there's no more defending champions apart from Krajicek here.  Looks like this year there will be a new Wimbledon winner if he doesn't go through.  It should be exciting. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT