WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2002
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Good evening, everyone.  Greg for you.  
 
 
Q.  Can you remember the last time you played that well? 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I knew I had to come up with a good match today.  I was expecting a tough match because he's such a good player.  So, no, I was really pleased the way I played today.  You know, I'm in the third round, Centre Court match, just looked forward to it and played very well.  
 
Q.  The backhand really came on today.  What was the secret to suddenly exploding into a lot of winners?  Like 1997 again, wasn't it?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think I'm improving.  I think I'm better.  I've worked hard on my backhand and my returns.  I think from the first match all the way to this match, I've gotten better and improved.  I don't really feel that it's a weakness.  I feel like I can make shots on it and it's very solid now. 
 
Q.  Kafelnikov losing today, as well, the draw keeps opening up. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, no, I'm looking forward to my next match.  You know, happy to be in the fourth round.  I've got two days off now.  Malisse is a very good player, as you can see.  You don't come out and beat Kafelnikov in three straight sets.  He's talented.  I just really want to enjoy this right now at the moment.  You don't really get many performances on Centre Court where you play so well, you know, you're into the second week. 
 
Q.  You haven't lost your serve.  If you are serving like that, do you think you can win the tournament?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I'm just taking it one match at a time.  I mean, I'm just looking at it one day at a time, one match at a time.  I can't get ahead of myself.  I mean, this tournament has been a little bit crazy with some of the upsets this year already.  Don't get ahead of yourself.  One day at a time, one match at a time. 
 
Q.  People are beginning to tip you to go very far.  You've kind of crept along up until now.  How is that going to affect you?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I just look at it one match at a time, just taking that boring sort of thing. 
 
Q.  Regardless of what goes on?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Regardless of what goes on.  You know, the attention is elsewhere with seeds falling out, different things.  So I'm just happy to be there, happy to be playing.  I'm just taking it one day at a time.  That's the most important thing. 
 
Q.  How would you feel about only one seed being above you in the bottom half of the draw, Lapentti? 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I don't really think that's too relevant because there's Philippoussis, who is left, Krajicek, a defending champion, left.  There's some great players there.  Arthurs is dangerous, as well, if he won.  So let's not get ahead of ourselves.  You know, you've just got to show up and come to play every day one match at a time like I did when I was at the US Open.  That worked very well for me in '97.  That's the sort of process I have to take.  And this was a big step forward for me today. 
 
Q.  At what point did you know that the match was yours?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I was very confident, you know, before the match.  I felt I had the experience.  I think Andy's a great player, but I just felt I had that little edge on experience today, and that really helped.  And I thought the crowd were great, getting into it at the big moments.  So it's just you never really have it until the last point's won because anything can happen on a tennis court.  But I felt very confident. 
 
Q.  Did you hear the crowd gasping on your  -- like you missed a first serve on your second match point, the crowd let out a sigh like you were going down match point.  Did you hear that?  Did you get the sense that this crowd was just waiting to erupt for you today?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, they wanted the victory.  They wanted the win.  They want to see British players doing well here at the tournament.  You know, I was pleased that I got through.  They just want it so badly, and it's great to have their support.  They're doing a great job helping us. 
 
Q.  Talking about your next match.  You already played Malisse once. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I played him twice. 
 
Q.  What do you remember of those matches? 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I beat him in San  Jose.  I lost to him in Paris indoors last year.  So he's a good player.  He's got good returns.  Hits some flashy shots.  Good first serve.  He's a talented player.  Just looking forward to another good match.  
 
Q.  You said you had the advantage on him in experience.  How does it translate to sort of shots and strategy playing against him?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Don't want to give away all my secrets today because I'm sure I'll face him in the future (laughter). Just big-point situations, grass court tennis.  It's only a second appearance at Wimbledon.  He's played very well.  You know, he's one for the future. 
 
Q.  Did you really feed off the atmosphere today?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  It really does help.  I think I brought a nice calm demeanor into it. 
 
Q.  Has this little feud with you and Cash, him saying you have no chance to win, served as any kind of motivation for you?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I can't say I've read anything.  I haven't read any newspapers.  I haven't, you know, heard anything about it.  So that's the first I heard of it.  
 
Q.  You haven't read any papers and you're endorsing The Sun?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I read one paper, you know (smiling).  I cut out the tennis section. 
 
Q.  Have you played better at Wimbledon than you played today?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I don't know.  I mean, that's a tough question to answer.  I think I played very well today.  But, you know, the most important thing is to still be here in The Championships.  It doesn't matter how well you play; it's surviving and staying in the tournament.  And that's what I'm doing.  Whether I play great or whether I win in five sets, just being there is the most important thing.  I'm saving my body with only losing one set, so I'm very pleased with the way the first week's gone. 
 
Q.  Kafelnikov said that he thought you were in a good position to win because nobody's paying much attention to you, there's no pressure on you.  Things may change after this match.  Do you sort of think that's a preferable position to be in compared to Tim?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I think the expectation is high on both of us this year.  No, definitely I'm the one who's in the background at the moment.  I don't mind it.  I just look at it like this:  i'm happy to be playing tennis; I'm happy to be here at Wimbledon; I'm really enjoying the experience and taking each match at a time.  You know, I'm still here.  That's the most important thing. 
 
Q.  Some fans are calling for the hill to be called Rusedski Ridge.  What do you think of that?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I don't know.  They can call it whatever they like.  I'm just more than happy that they cheer for me and support me throughout the match.  That's the most important thing. 
 
Q.  Reaching the second week, how much do you now call upon the experience of having been to a final, knowing what that second week entails mentally, physically?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think that really helps me.  I've played seven matches.  It gets harder every round now.  It doesn't get easier.  The first week's done, and now it just gets harder with every single match that comes up.  That's where the mental challenge is probably the strongest, because everybody who is in there can play very good tennis.  
 
Q.  Are guys surprised by the virtual collapse of the American men here?  There's one American left and two British players. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I mean, Pete could have turned it on if he would have got through that match in five sets.  You never know what could have happened.  I was surprised when Andre went out a little bit early to Srichaphan.  But he must have played a great match.  If you don't come with your best tennis every day, the men's circuit is so strong that you're going to go home.  It's just the depth of men's tennis these days.  You have to be at your top every match.  If you're not, then you're going to be going home. 
 
Q.  Some players say, especially on grass, it is a big advantage to be a lefty.  Do you think so?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I think it does help to be a lefty on grass, most surfaces, if you take advantage of it.  You have to be a complete player, and that's the most important thing.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT