WIMBLEDON
June 26, 2002
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions.


Q.  All seemed to be going smoothly, then a little wobble. 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I totally agree.  I thought for two sets and 5-3, Love-40, I did everything that I needed to do out there.  He hit one good serve.  I should have made the chip and charge at 15-40.  Probably would have been in the locker room in three straight sets.  But, you know, played a little bit of a loose game there, then he played a reasonably good game.  But overall, just pleased to get through in four because, you know, I could have been going five.  I managed to raise my level when I had to at 1-Love, 15-40 down, then just get the momentum back on my side and take it in 6-2 in the fourth.  It should have been easier and smoother.  But he's a good player, as you can see from last week at Queen's.  If you give him a little bit of an inch, he'll take a long mile, he'll take a long bit of the match.  That's what you can't afford to do. 

Q.  I guess on a day when all sorts of results are coming in, must be relieved to be through safely to the third round?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I don't think I was really in any grave danger, even if I lost that set, the third set, because I regrouped well and managed to pull it back at that second  -- the first service game of the third set.  That was very important for me.  And then just to stamp my authority and start putting pressure on his returns.  You know, if you win in four sets, you're pleased.  6-2 in the fourth is no big thing.  I guess I got rid of that match.  Now it gets easier in certain respects rather than harder because every player I'm playing now is seeded ahead of me, so the pressure's more on them now than me. 

Q.  Have you been surprised by a couple of the results today?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I think Bastl, everybody in the locker room knew he can return really well.  You know, obviously it's surprising to see Pete go out in five sets.  But everybody knew that was going to be a good match in the locker room.  But, you know, that's a surprise for Andre to lose in three straight.  Srichaphan can play good tennis, but you didn't expect it with the conditions as they are, being high bouncing and slower, to have Andre knocked out convincingly.  Safin, as well.  Draw has opened up.  I'm glad I'm here.  I've got to take it one match at a time.  That's what happens in tournaments.  Even though sections and draws look difficult, people fall out, things can happen.  That's why you have to fight to try to keep yourself in there every day because anything can happen.

Q.  Do you reassess the draw?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  My draw hasn't fallen apart, unfortunately (laughter).  I'm playing Roddick, who is the young American, up-and-coming.  I think Kafelnikov is still in my section.  It still looks very strong.  You know, I'm going to have to raise my level.  That's what I'm going to have to do.  There's no question I have to keep raising every day.  Can't have that lapse like I had today or I'll be punished worse.  I'm still here, happy about that.  That's the most important thing. 

Q.  You sense that the crowd are starting to warm, as well?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I think there's a bit of excitement going on, a buzz.  I can never remember Wimbledon having three big names knocked out on a Wednesday.  I just don't remember it, especially defending champions like an Agassi and a Sampras.  I don't think it's ever happened.  So there is some excitement around.  But, you know, I'm still here, I'm still going.  I've got a match on Friday.  That's the most important thing.  Now it gets down to the serious business for me because it's going to be similar to Philippoussis that I played in Queen's Club, big serving.  He doesn't volley as well as Philippoussis.  So it's going to be a similar sort of match like that, so I'm looking forward to it. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT