NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 22, 2002
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Greg.  
 
 
Q.  Greg, we were just saying about the conditions, you know. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yes. 
 
Q.  They weren't the ideal for a player like you, were they? 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I think, you know, I didn't mind the wind.  That doesn't really bother me so much.  But if it was a little bit warmer today, like it was when I played my first match, I think I would have stood a better chance.  The balls on the court are extremely heavy and, you know, if you give Andre time, I thought I hit a few good shots here and there.  And he seemed like he had 100 hours to pick where he wanted to hit his passing shot or his lob or whatever he wanted to do with the ball.  So, you know, it was difficult conditions.  You know, I was a little bit flat, I'd say the first bit and a half.  Then I came out and decided I might as well go for broke and go for it.  He just stepped it up and hit the ball even better.  So credit to him. 
 
Q.  Practicing for Wimbledon? 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, I wish we were on grass.  Might have been a little nicer for me.  But, no, that can happen here.  You can get some strange weather here once in a while.  You're used to getting the wind and sometimes a little bit of rain.  But that's just this part of the tournament, something you have to deal with. 
 
Q.  Any positive points to come from it?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah.  The only plus point is now I can get ready for  -- get a week off and get ready and do my physical training and, you know, refocus and get my schedule ready for Wimbledon basically.   And that's about the only thing I can see of that.  You know, I played  -- I win one match and I'd lose one match, but I've had some tough draws and I haven't played as well as I could in some of the matches. 
 
Q.  He certainly is playing well?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, he played very well today.  Credit due to him.  He stepped in, took the ball early, if the conditions are like this, I would pick him to win the tournament without a hesitation right now.  But the conditions aren't going to be like this the whole time.  It's going to heat up, it's going to get quicker.  But if it stays like this, if someone asked me to put money on somebody, you know, I'd probably bet my house on it.  
 
Q.  How quick is he about the court?  He looks very, very quick.  Is he as quick as he looks?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, he anticipates and rates the ball very well.  That's why he looks so quick.  He reads a play probably a second faster than most people.  And, you know, he sees the ball a fraction earlier.  He's kept himself in good shape, and, you know, he played very well and he's a great player.  
 
Q.  With the rain delays, I mean, there was one before you actually got to start the match which was a lengthy one. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yes. 
 
Q.  Then you won the first two points?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yes. 
 
Q.  There was a long delay, you came back, held to love. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yes.  
 
Q.  Gradually, it started to go his way.  It did seem a lot windier as soon as you came out. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I think the conditions, instead of getting hotter, it slowed down.  Because it gets cooler and a little bit windier.  You know, he handled those better and it played into his favor a little bit more and he took advantage.  
 
Q.  Things just didn't really go for you either in one or two key moments, did they?  When you come out after that break at 1-2, 30-love and he hits that first ball (inaudible), it doesn't help?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, doesn't help.  I got it back to deuce twice.  He didn't miss one return on two break points, I hit two good serves.  Decided to get aggressive, serve and volley really quickly, get into the net as quickly as I could and put more pace on the serve, but didn't really work for me at all today.  
 
Q.  Is there a fundamental flaw in this tournament?  32 players get a free ride into the second round?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Just get yourself into the 32, that's all.  It's the same for everybody if, you know, I think it's always been like that.  It gives the guys who are higher ranked a few days extra off, and if your ranking is in the 32, well, you deserve it.  That's the way I look at it. 
 
Q.  What if it was a 112 draw and only 16 got a free ride?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  If the tournament wants to do that, that's their choice.  It's a great tournament.  I enjoy it.  If they want to do that, it doesn't make a difference to me.  
 
Q.  In an ideal world, would you like a week off between Indian Wells  and Key Biscayne?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I like Indian Wells and Key Biscayne to go straight after each other. 
 
Q.  You think the three or four days' rest is sufficient?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, just put them straight back-to-back.  I think a lot of the European guys would like that better, especially if they've come over  - I might be wrong  - but that's what I think.  Just put Indian Wells, Key Biscayne.  Because then I think guys would play a little bit less, and they're just back-to-back like they do with the rest of the Masters Series. 
 
Q.  With the experiment they're trying not here, but the tiebreak in the doubles instead of a third set, I think the two ideas there, one is to shorten the doubles matches, of course, which helps television perhaps.  The other is perhaps to persuade more singles players to play doubles. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yes.  
 
Q.  Do you think you might be attracted to do that if this has proved to be a success, try it on a regular basis? 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, I think it's a great idea.  I like the concept.  A lot of the doubles guys I talked to don't like the concept.  I think it's proving valuable.  You're getting guys playing, you got Hewitt playing this week, Tim's played the last two weeks, even though they don't have the system here in this place.   But if you get the top guys playing doubles, it's great.  I think that's what the public wants to see.  They want to see the big names going into tournaments playing somehow.  If it's good for the game, why not do it. 
 
Q.  Do you think you might be tempted to play?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Maybe on the clay.  On the clay, hopefully.  I might play some doubles matches, because it's not as punishing on the body.  Fair enough, it's cardiovascularly different, but it's not as physically punishing. 
 
Q.  You think the issue with the singles players is they don't want to get involved in a two and a half hour doubles match?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Exactly.  They know that the doubles is going to last no longer than an hour and a half probably.  Two sets can't  -- I mean, in Indian Wells they had one match where, I'm pretty sure, which was four hours (laughing), but that's a rarity.  
 
Q.  You talked about that schedule.  Have you decided whether you might miss a Masters Series event or not? 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I haven't figured that out.  I have to sit town and talk to Sven and figure it out.  What I know from now, I'm taking a week off.  All I know is I really got to punish myself in the gym like I did in December.  It paid big dividends going into the Australian Open.  And, you know, if I can get a month to five weeks where I'm doing twice-a-day sessions like I did in December, I thought I went down to Australia and played very well.  I'd like to be at my maximum potential for Wimbledon.  
 
Q.  You'll have a week off at home, will you? 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I don't know.  
 
Q.  Will you stay in Spain?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I haven't figured that one out as well.  I have to talk to my physical trainer.  He's going to get me altitude training in the mountains somewhere.  So wherever he wants to take me or put me, that's where I'll go.  He's the boss in that respect.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT