PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 13, 2002
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  For Greg, please.  
 
 
Q.  Greg, where is that on the frustration scale?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I think I'm very frustrated with myself.  I think, you know, the second set with the conditions, anything can happen.  You know, it's blustery.  Played a good set.  First set, I was really pleased.  I really took it to him with the returns, just played aggressive.  You know, if I would have lost that set, I still would have been pleased because I did the right things.  Second set, anything could have happened with that wind, with the gust and the sand.  You know, throw that one out the bag.  He could have won it, I could have won it.  Third set, you know, two games, 15-30, played really bad points.  One forehand I should have hit up the line, I miss it long, I don't care.  Play it back, push it back cross-court.  That's a mistake.  15-30, I have an easy slice the next game, break chance, miss it in the net.  30-All, easy forehand.  Too polite.  Should have just hit it at him or hit it really hard.  
 
Q.  That was the 3-2, 30-All one?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah.  That was to go up a break.  Then, you know, the frustration built in, played a bad game, that was the match.  I mean, it's just difficult with those conditions.  You know, if I would have probably kept my head after 3-All, then maybe I would have won in a tiebreaker.  It's easier said than done when you're playing in those conditions.  
 
Q.  How long is it since you've had a day when things have managed to get under your skin to frustrate you like that?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, it's been a long time, I think.  I haven't lost a three-set match this year until that match.  You know, I'm extremely disappointed with it, and I'm extremely disappointed with the performance today.  You know, if I lost the match and did the right things, then I have no problem.  But if I lose the match and I do the wrong things, then I have a problem.  If I'm going for the right shots and I miss them, that's fine.  But losing the match and going for the wrong shots is not right. 
 
Q.  How much was the wind a factor in that, in making you have other things on your mind?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I was going to hit him with the forehand at 30-All.  I said, "I'm going to change it up."  Certain little doubts, certain little things coming in.  You know, you can't do that, especially with a guy like him who, you know, on his serve, you're going to get one or two chances, the way he plays.  You just have to take them (snapping fingers).  If you don't take them, you end up second best.  If you go for them, you don't make them, fine, at least you say, "Well, I went for them."  You know, that's just the way tennis is.  
 
Q.  It didn't work out here, but what would you take away from here to Miami?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I'm extremely disappointed still.  I don't know what to take out to Miami yet because, you know, Gaudio to get to the quarters is a fantastic draw.  You know, I've got, I don't know what, ten days or whatever it is, seven days, before the event starts in Miami.  So I'll probably have a day off tomorrow, then get back to work on Friday.  
 
Q.  Do you feel like conditions changed during the match?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, they did.  They were a little blustery in the beginning, then not so bad.  Then the second set, down one-nothing, started to really blow.  Third set, about the middle of the third, beginning of the third, the conditions were pretty good again.  You know, same conditions for both of us.  That's just tennis.  You know, with all the matches, they have good matches here, you're going to have guys playing on the outside courts.  You had Federer playing there, myself, Enqvist.   It's how the guy handles the things.  If you handle them right, don't get frustrated, you usually end up the winner.  
 
Q.  Ever played in conditions as bad as that?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Probably not.  With the wind, but it's really difficult with the sand coming in your face all the time.  
 
Q.  It is a pity when you played so many good points, as well, during the match.
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah.  Well, the ball's moving around.  If I could have played like one or two points, I would have missed them, come off losing, I'd feel much more positive about it.  But, I mean, I returned pretty well.  You know, with the conditions, you can't hit the lines with the serves, especially when it's blowing that much.  You just have to improve for Miami.  I have nothing really to defend in Miami.  I really have to take advantage of that week.  You know, an opportunity lost this week.  
 
Q.  Obviously, very upset at the moment.  How long does it take you to clear this from your mind so you can actually get back to work?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  You've got to clear it tomorrow.  If you don't clear it tomorrow, forget about it, don't become a tennis player, go do something else.  Guys who can't clear losses, you keep on losing.  That's part of a tennis player.  You just have to wake up tomorrow and say, "Forget about it, learn from it.  Don't make the same mistake twice."  I made the mistake once this year.  Don't do it again.  No excuse. 
 
Q.  At the same time, it's good that you immediately face up to it so you can get out of your system.
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  No, you have to.  I'm mature more about it.  If I make a mistake, I admit to it.  That's the way it is.  You know, it's not Wimbledon, but it's a big tournament.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT