TMS - STUTTGART
October 15, 2001
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 

MODERATOR:  Questions for Greg. 


Q.  Hasn't gone as we  - and I'm sure you - thought it was going to go so far these two weeks.  Last week the court was slow.  This was a bit quicker. 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  It was quicker.  There's no question about it.  You know, played two average service games when I got broken, but never really got a chance on his serve.  I mean, his first and second serve he was hitting as hard, both serves.  Served very, very well.  If you can't put any pressure on the guy on his serve and he's hitting that many aces, you know, there's not a lot you can do out there.  He's a flashy sort of player, comes up with big shots.  The first point, I hit a decent dropshot where I get broken.  He flicks one off the let cord down the line with the ball below the net.  Great shot.  I hit one volley a little short with not enough stick at 15-30.  Stick my footing, miss one volley.  That's the first set.  Early break in the second again.  One breakpoint, takes it.  Never really had a chance.  I had one game maybe at 30-All.  You know, missed one slice backhand.  Hit a forehand winner on the next point at 40-30.  You know, I have to give credit where credit's due.  He played awfully well.  If he serves like that, he's going to be tough to beat.  The question is, can he serve that well, that consistently, and just go after his groundstrokes like that.  Played two weeks, played two guys who played extremely hot, played extremely well.  That's just the men's game of tennis, unfortunately.  Tough first round match here.  All the matches are very difficult.  You know, there's not much I can do when a guy plays that well.  He was too good today.


Q.  A bit disappointed that you weren't able to do more against him?  You have the sort of game which has been able to counter these people in the past. 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Last time I lost to him indoors in Milan, 7-6, 7-6.  I beat him in Washington outdoors.  You know, today I felt I dominated up until 4-3 in the first set, then just played an average service game, which hurt me.  One break.  Then he just lifted his game another level and got really loose, played very well.  I mean, the way he served today, I don't think a lot of guys would have had fun returning against him.  I mean, even if you look at the last game, I played a great point.  First point, five-, six -, seven-ball rally.  Still doesn't go my way.  That's just tennis some days. 


Q.  How high were your expectations coming away from Ecuador after such a great performance, coming into somewhere where you've proven over the years you can play?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I have to look at it like this:  It's only two events; two more events to go.  This year I actually played pretty solid all year.  What can I say?  I matched up with two guys that played two of their best matches of the year.  I'm sure if you talked to Julien, I'm sure he will tell you I don't think he served better.  That's just the way tennis goes some days.  I have to get ready for St.  Petersburg and Paris.  That's all can I do.  There's nothing more than I can do but get ready for those next two weeks.


Q.  Is it correct or not correct that at this stage of the season, bearing in mind your ranking, your focus is a little bit more on the long-term than it normally is, that you're already sort of thinking about next year?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I'd still like to, you know, do well these last few weeks, because they're big tournaments.  Usually historically indoors I usually do well - Indian Wells, Miami, Stuttgart, Paris, historically.  But this year historically it hasn't been that way so far.  That's the quite ironic thing about it.  You know, I've just got to look at it like this:  two more weeks, try to push it hard, get ready for next year.  Next year there's Slams.  I don't feel like I'm playing bad tennis.  It's just one or two points here, serving a little bit better those two games, and that's about it.  It's like you just need to get a match.  Get a match, try to get a few matches, a match or two, three or four in St. Petersburg.  Get it going, get ready for Paris.  It would be nice.  Next week hopefully I'll get a win and try to make something positive the last two weeks of the year.  The two matches I've lost, I haven't felt like I played badly.  The two guys have played very well.  But I still have to be able to raise my level a little bit more. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT