US OPEN
August 30, 2001
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Greg, please.  
 
 
Q.  That was an eventful evening and a good performance.
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  No, yeah.  I was really pleased to win tonight.  I mean, I was cruising.  First two sets I couldn't play any better to be honest with you.  I had 15-30 about three times.  I must have missed two forehand passing shots on the top of the net. Two matchpoints -   one that was unreturnable. Second one was I just was a little tentative.  Should have been more a little bit more aggressive with it.  He made it an easy volley on that. Then, you know, I mean he played the most unbelievable tiebreaker I've ever seen in my life.  I mean, I just felt I did nothing wrong, and I've never played a tiebreaker where I've lost playing that well.  And then get into the fourth set, lose my mind a little bit first four games of the third set.  You know, after I lost the tiebreaker, I was very disappointed.  And then after about 3-1 in the second set, I decided to just empty my mind, forget about it.  It's a new match.  I got two more sets to play here.  You know, I knew he was going to get a little tight serving for it at 5-3 and really took advantage of that.  So for me it was a good win because I still had to fight another tiebreaker drama again. So for me it was good because I lost a tough one like that to Todd Martin in '99, which absolutely killed me.  And, you know, this is only going to give me confidence because not a lot of guys return as well as Bjorkman does. But, you know,  I just got to get back quicker from that sort of experience.  
 
Q.  If you hadn't blown up, do you think it could have caused you serious problems?  In some ways, you need to get it out of your system.
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, I mean I needed to get it out of my system; I really did.  You know, second warning, I felt, you know  -- first one, "Fair enough, I chucked my racquet.  It slid on the ground.  It was a little bit violent, fair enough. Give me the warning.  I'm not complaining about that.  I didn't hit anybody, I didn't go after anyone."  Second one I had a forehand because he hits a return after I missed a return by an inch.  I crack it, it lands in the court, hits the line judge, just unlucky.  You know, I get a penalty. So that, you know, I needed to get it out of my system and I think it helped me.  Then I got it out of my system, then I could empty my mind and it worked well.  Rather handle it a little bit better next time, to be honest with you. 
 
Q.  Do you know what his bother was?  Was there someone behind the court? 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I guess he didn't like someone shouting there, I don't know.  A woman or somebody was cheering or saying something I guess he didn't find amusing.  But that's the New York crowd.  I mean, what the New York crowd says to you sometimes you just can't believe.  I mean, I have one guy screaming at me, "You know, you're supposed to hit your serve hard.  What are you doing?"  (Laughter). I got some other guy screaming at me in the corner going, "God, why isn't it done?" You know.  I've had some, like, New York crowd, you get some of the weirdest sort of like expressions and things you hear, which you're just like, you know, you just got to deal with them because that's New York.  It's not like Wimbledon.  It's not like the French Open.  It's not your regular tennis fan you're getting out there, which is quite fun, but you get some amusing comments coming at you. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible). Not easy when the calls are like that?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  No, I thought the standard was great.  I think, you know, I don't think in the first two or three sets maybe I made three or four unforced errors.  And, you know, I was really happy that I didn't go into the fifth set there.  I had good set point, came up with a good return, good backhand passing shot which was key.  I mean, the standard to get through, I was really, really pleased.  If I would have lost that, I would have been just absolutely devastated. 
 
Q.  You must be very pleased with the way the backhand is going, both the slice and the passing shots.
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, no, the return, the passing shot.  I've got a lot of confidence on it.  It still can get better but it's a lot better than it has been in the past.  It's not a liability anymore, but it's still room for improvement.  
 
Q.  You're not known for blowing your top like that actually, are you?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  No, not particularly.  I guess I'm in America, New York City, John McEnroe's town, so... 
 
Q.  But usually you would sort of have a little blowup, the umpire would explain, and you'd say,  "I don't agree with you." But you wouldn't necessarily call the referee, would you, normally?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  No, I wouldn't.  You know, I think I also needed to cool my mind down as well.  You know, I felt it was a little bit unjust.  Fair enough, I hit the guy.  No intention of doing that.  He was out of his position when he moved.  And it was on the bounce.  If I hit him on the fly, I'd say, "Give me the point penalty, I'm guilty as charged, please.  I deserve it."  I felt it was a little bit harsh.  But that's the ruling.  The referee came on the court saying, "I'm not changing it."  So I got up and played and that was it.  He says "I'm not changing it," so I can't argue with him because it's done. 
 
Q.  How much did you feel you were on a bit of a tightrope after that from the point of your discipline?  Did you have two more goes? 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, it's point, point, point, point.  So you can't get thrown out anymore. 
 
Q.  You don't get thrown out?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  No, no.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible). 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I don't think I was going that way.  I think after that I behaved like a proper boy out there.  
 
Q.  Looking ahead, Greg, were you at all surprised at the score between Zabaleta and Dent?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I don't even know what the score was.  If you could tell me. 
 
Q.  Straight sets Zabaleta.
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, I'm a little bit surprised.  To be honest with you, I'm quite happy.  I'd rather face Zabaleta than Dent because  Dent can come at you serve and serve 145, 120 on his second serve and just come out and play a magical match.  With Zabaleta, you know what you're going to get but you still have to play very well to win.  But you're not going to be blown off the court.  You're going to be able to create opportunities out, you're going to be able to chip and charge, you're going to be able to rally.  He's not going to come out like Dent who can just -- at Wimbledon you saw for a set and a half against Hewitt, was sensational.  So, you know, I think that is a little bit favorable to me as well.  Hopefully, I can take advantage of it.  
 
Q.  Nice all around?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, no complaints. 
 
Q.  Obviously, the seeding has helped.  I shouldn't say obviously.  Maybe it has helped you this time.  How do you feel about it?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I like the 32.  But if I look at the draw, I played El Aynaoui first round, he beats Hewitt in Indianapolis.  You know, I played Bjorkman who was a semi-finalist here, played a very high standard match.  And now I was either going to play Grosjean, Zabaleta or Dent.  So, you know, so it wasn't that easy, but it's helped me to miss Sampras, Rafter and Agassi.  I'm just glad I'm not on that bottom corner because that's a nasty little section.  You know, you have, I mean that's the toughest section of the draw by far.  So, it has helped in that respect so I'm happy I missed that.  
 
Q.  How close are you to your best form?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think I'm playing very well.  I feel fresh.  I mean, I just finished four sets.  You know, I could play another two, two hours.  I feel fine.  I feel good physically.  I feel strong.  So, you know, in the past I'd feel tired from a match like that.  I think I worked hard this year, so I'll be fresh, I'll be ready for Zabaleta.  I think I can keep on improving a little bit more.  That's what you have to do with every round.  Guys are playing better every round.  I'd like to get into the second week of the US Open.  I'd like to be in the fourth round.  I think you guys would like to see some sort of matchup in the fourth round. (Smiling). So you know, it will be fun if that happens.  I look forward to it.  You know, I think it's a challenge for both of us.  Neither one of us has played in a Grand Slam before against each other three of five sets. But we both still have two tough matches.  He's got an interesting match with Malisse because his ex-coach is working with Malisse.  I've got an interesting match with Zabaleta because it's one, you know, where I probably am the favorite to win and should hopefully get through.  But he's going to be a tough competitor.  At least I know he's not going to return as well as Bjorkman.  So that's a nice thought. 
 
Q.  Given what happened with McEnroe, three steps instead of four and he got disqualified, after all those years of being on the edge, he finally got disqualified in Australia.
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I don't plan to join that club.  
 
Q.  Okay.  So you're in that position, you just got a penalty point.  But you're not, you know, it's not a case of being thrown out next time. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah.  Well, I thought after I got that point penalty, it was time to settle down, it was time to move on and I got everything out.  And, you know, sometimes you have to do that.  It's not always the best thing and I don't  -- I don't, you know, feel, you know, very proud of that.  But, you know, it got me through the match tonight.  And, you know, that's the way it goes sometimes.  So I don't think I got into trouble after I lost the point.  
 
Q.  What I'm thinking is, though, supposing you didn't do anything drastic, but say you'd thrown your racquet again, broke your racquet again.
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah.  I actually did break my racquet on the -- on a half volley.  My racquet cracked on me.  I said to the referee, "You're not going to give me another point penalty now.  I was playing the shots." (Laughing). So, you know, these things can happen.  But I think the rule with one point, because, you know, they want to see  -- at least both Jonas and I really wanted to win.  You saw good tennis.  Sometimes you want to see emotion.  Sometimes it's negative.  Sometimes it's positive.  We're only human.  We can't be like Bjorn Borg was.  Borg was amazing.  I don't know how he did it.  Sometimes  -- I'm not renowned for doing this.  That's the way it is sometimes. 
 
Q.  You said you're physically up there now.  Will this match also do the mental side of you?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah.  I think mentally it really helped because I was thinking to myself, "I'm two sets to love." It's like Todd Martin here, remember that match?  I don't even want to remember that match. I mean, I was two sets to love up, I had the guy by the rope, I served for the match, I lost at five, the crowd was going nuts.  I was 4-1 up in the fifth.  If I would have lost that tonight, that would have been killer.  So I had to put it together and, you know, mentally that really says,  "Okay, fine, I'm here, I'm alive, I'm in the third round." And that mentally really helped me. 
 
Q.  Hypothetical questions, but had you lost that tiebreaker in the fourth set, how do you think you would have dealt with the fifth set?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, physically I would have been fine.  Mentally I would have been fine.  But then we would have tossed a coin.  It could have gone any which way.  If we would have gone into a fifth set, I don't know if I would have won.  But, you know, I would have been able to compete.  Mentally I would have been fine.  Physically I would have been fine.  Then it becomes a toss-up.  Because all of a sudden you never know what can happen in that fifth set.  He squeaks two tiebreakers through, and anything can happen. 
 
Q.  I would have thought also this sends a message to those players in the tough half of the draw who won't be looking forward to playing you. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, you know, I'd like to get a rematch with Agassi.  It would be very nice.  You know, but if I do that, I'm playing great tennis and both of us would be in the semi.  But that's a long, long way away.  I mean, I've got Zabaleta I have to look forward.  If I get ahead of myself, I'll be back in London.  So, you know, I got to... (Laughing).  So I've got to just take it one match at a time.  But no, I think  --. 
 
Q.  You wouldn't object to beating Sampras or Rafter, surely?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I wouldn't object to getting back to the finals.  If you can line me up just a clear path and put me in there, that's fine.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT