US OPEN
August 28, 2001
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions for Greg. 


Q.  You must be pretty happy with that one.  Can't ask for a better start. 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  No.  I was really pleased with today's match.  I mean, I thought Younes played extremely well that first set.  I played a few unforced errors when I made a few returns.  That was the only thing.  He was up a mini break.  He played a good tiebreaker.  From there on in, I started to make him play more returns.  I never got the deuce on my serve or faced one breakpoint.  Never really felt in too, too much trouble.  Pleased to get out in three sets.  I thought a good match, quite a tough opening round.

Q.  Must take great delight with that backhand winner at 6-4, great rally. 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  It's quite nice, isn't it (smiling)?  I'm not really renowned for my backhand passing shots.  I've been working on it.  I think it's getting better.  I tried to mix them up in the beginning by standing a little further back on the second serve, looping a few.  That really didn't work in the first set so much.  Then I just got a little more aggressive in the second, third and fourth set where I started chipping and charging.  That was definitely key. 

Q.  Good quality tennis, serve dominated, but a lot of rallies.  You seemed to be playing well all around. 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I'm very happy with the way I played today.  I didn't think Younes was going to play that well today, to be honest with you.  I thought I'd have a little bit of a play on his forehand inside out because that's what he likes.  He usually likes to serve the tee on the deuce, serve the out wide on the forehand on the ad.  He kind of changed it up a little bit and surprised me.  I got adjusted to that.  The standard was good quality tennis.  I was happy I didn't get into that second set tiebreaker.  Anything could have happened.  It was very important to really set that one-set-all initiative.

Q.  Have you got Younes/Jonas on your mind?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, I think I do. 

Q.  You mentioned him twice. 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Sorry.  One of us has heat exhaustion at the moment.  That's all right (laughter).

Q.  What about Jonas? 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I'm looking forward to it.  I think the last time we played was actually here at the US Open. 

Q.  That's right. 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Last time in the semi here.  Hopefully I can continue that record here at the US Open.  That would be very nice.  Our fortunes have both changed over the year since then.  He's got nothing to lose.  He likes a target.  He returns pretty well.  I think I'm going to have to be a bit more aggressive with the return of serve, but it's not going to be as big a serve as El Aynaoui was today.  He likes to beat you on movement, just bouncing around over here and there.  You have to take advantage of his weaknesses.  I'm looking forward to another good match.  It will put the test to my backhand passing shot and my return of serve, which will be very important. 

Q.  He has great returns, as well. 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  No, he's got very good returns.  I was pleased with the way I served today.  I think the percentages were pretty high.  Even when I got down, I got a lot of first serves in.  When I served out for it, I didn't go for the big aces, I mixed it up very well.  I think that was very important.  Against him it's the same sort of thing.  I'm not sure if I'm going to be attacking every single point.  Have to mix it up because you can't give him such an open target all the time.  If you give him a target, he loves it.  That's where he really thrives his tennis on.

Q.  Haven't seen you play much since Wimbledon, but you've had a very good series in America.  What is it about the courts and the conditions here that suit you?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  It's the first time I've played in America for the full summer for something like four or five years.  I think it's just you get a true bounce, so it's easier to return.  Playing a guy like Younes, serving well, get a few blocks, won't skid through.  Cheap points on my serve.  On the baseline, for a tall guy, I move well.  I can hustle to the corners when the courts are reasonably quick.  Helps my style.  The footing is very good.  If you stop, start, serve-volley, always been good.

Q.  The fact you've had a good, consistent run this time, do you think it's the better preparation coming into an event like this?  You have a consistent run under your belt.

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think I had a consistent run when I went into Wimbledon this year.  I think I had a pretty good week before the Australian Open, even though I wasn't playing great tennis.  I think the run has been good.  I only lost to guys who are No.  1 in the world.  I lost to Agassi in a tough match that I could have won.  Moya, I was disappointed, didn't play well, 15 double-faults.  On hard courts I feel I should beat him, or indoors.  On clay, it's a different story.  I played Rafter pretty tough in Cincinnati.  I played Agassi tough, three match points, and could have won in Washington.  There's no real  -- nothing really to worry about.  I played Boutter and Lapentti, who I had never beaten.  That's given me a little bit of confidence, as well.  Hopefully, I can bring that on in my next match against Bjorkman.

Q.  How far ahead have you looked in the draw? 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  He just dropped off.  He just lost.  I just saw that.  I think that definitely helps out with the section.  Who did he lose to? 

Q.  Zabaleta.  Injured, apparently. 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  That definitely does help me out a little bit, to be honest with you.  When he's fit, he's extremely difficult to play, somebody you don't want to play out here, to be honest.  That's very nice.  I still have to look at Jonas.  I think he's got a winning record against me.  I'd like to hopefully get one back on Thursday. 

Q.  As a reference point, can you draw anything from '97 still?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, I think so.  That gives you confidence.  Even though I've always come back from injury most of the last four or five years, I still managed to win a match or two here and get myself ready for the indoor season.  This is the first year I've come in really healthy, haven't been injured all year, haven't visited a doctor, seen any of those people, which has been really nice - maybe only socially, which is acceptable  - but not for treatment (smiling).  It's been very good.  I've had a good run.  I feel like my preparation, I couldn't have done it much better.  Now hopefully I can take advantage of that preparation and try to get on a few more rounds.  You know, things can open up in Slams.  Anything can happen.  The thing which I'm fortunate about, I'm not on that bottom quarter, that quarter with Rafter, Agassi, Sampras, Federer.  I mean, you're happier out of that quarter, let's be honest with that.  Every other quarter, you're pretty pleased with the top, second or third quarters.  That's the thing, to try to take advantage of it.

Q.  Is it a relief to be seeded?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  No, I think it's nice that 32 came in just in time to save me.  You know, that's been very, very pleasant.  I mean, it's nice to get the seeding.  It put me away from playing Agassi, Sampras or Rafter, you know, Kuerten in the first round, or Ivanisevic.  That's definitely a help.  I quite like that system.  I like that they just went straight off the computer and said, "Here is 1, here is 32, that's the way it works." 

Q.  Didn't juggle them about at all?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  No, I think that's good.  I think that's the way it should go.  You have some rough sections and some easier sections.  I think the 32 helps guys who are a little bit between, say, 17 and 32.  It really gives you a benefit because you can say, "If I play well, then I can get to the third round.  From there, I'm going to really have to hit the top players.  If the draw opens up, it opens up."  That really helps. 

Q.  It also means players don't have an argument, if you're not in the top 32, you can't argue about not having a seed. 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Exactly.  There's no argument.  It's clear-cut.  Just get on with tennis.  I'm glad they ranked Kuerten No.  1, because I think he deserves it.  It was impressive winning Cincinnati, getting to the finals of Indianapolis.  He still doesn't have an easy quarter.  Big servers, Mirnyi, Arthurs, Canas can play.  I think it's still going to be good tennis all around.

Q.  Less debate going straight down the rankings here and Australia, because the surfaces are more neutral, fair to everybody. 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, but you work all year for your ranking.  If your ranking is high enough, I mean, I can understand Wimbledon and the French, but let's just keep it the same.  You work hard all year.  If you lose early, that's your tough luck - that's just life - if they seed 1 through 32 normally.

Q.  We know all the work you did on your serve, the rest of your game.  When you look around and see you served 138, does that give you a huge sense of confidence?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I think I can serve hard.  What I like about my serve now is I'm more clever with it.  In the past, when I got to the finals here, I played like Ivanisevic did at Wimbledon.  209 aces, slash it down as hard as you can every time.  If it's going, it's great.  If his isn't going, he's in a little bit of trouble there.  You know, I like it that I can be a little bit more clever, give it a little more variety.  I think the older I get, the wiser I'm getting.  I'm saving it a little bit.  Getting in a first serve, you're going to win more points than if you give the guy second serves all the time. 

Q.  Can you also get a sense of the way you're going to play in a match from the warm-up?  Is that a crucial element?  You missed not a shot in the warm-up. 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I think what's better with me now is I'm managing to stay more in the present.  I think what happens is you get on court, sometimes your mind races.  When you play well, when I play well, I just manage to play it one point at a time.  I just manage not to get ahead of myself, stay in the moment.  I think a lot of players sometimes have that problem.  "I'm up a set, I'm up a break, I'm in the locker room.  Three straight sets."  My concentration I think is a little better because I managed to play a lot of tennis this year.  I think that's what's helped me.

Q.  Have you done anything in particular on that?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I just think it's just working on the court, working with your mind, talking about it with your coach, my physio, the people around me, getting myself to take the time out there.  Really doing it more myself.

Q.  You don't have any aids that take over?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I just take out my own aids for my mind.  Sometimes on my serve, I rushed.  Montreal, I rushed against Moya.  I was totally disappointed in myself that day.  I just have an aid where I look down at my racquet, look at what I'm doing, my stance, catch myself from rushing.  If I hit a double-fault, I have to take my time, get the first serve in.  Have a few hit points there or here to help out.  You can't afford to give points away too much here.  If you do, you'll be sitting in the locker room or going home.

Q.  Who made up the ice towel?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I just use that because of the heat.  I have Ryan make two of them up before the match, especially here because of the heat and humidity, keep the temperature down.  It helps.  It helped me win the second set because I saw him getting a little bit tired near the end the second set.  He got a little tired in the middle of the third.  The fourth set he looked pretty strong.  He was more mentally down than physically down.  You can just notice these one or two little things going on that can help you.  If I can keep my body temperature down, maybe I won't feel as hot. 

Q.  About the Davis Cup.  You've seen the squad that's announced.  Barry Cowan is in, as an option for the doubles.  Depend how singles go.  We have Lee, five sets last night. 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  He must have played well.  What was the score? 

Q.  6-3. 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I knew he went five. 

Q.  You have two lads who have tried very hard to resurrect the game a bit this year, this part of the year.  What is your impression of that?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think, you know, it's great.  Martin has been one match away from being in the Top 100, about three times this summer.  He's been a little bit unlucky.  But he's going the right direction.  He has the tournament in Brazil before the Davis Cup starts.  It would be nice if Martin can join us in the Top 100.  I think that would give Jamie Delgado a bit more of a push and confidence.  Barry, if he can keep going up in the ranking would be great, as well.  If we can get one or two of the guys.  Tim and myself have been in the Top 10, he's still in the Top 10.  If they grow up with these guys, see them cracking the Top 100, that will probably help them a lot, give them more belief in more things.  Must have been tough on Jamie not to be selected.  Roger's thinking was if Tim or I don't play, probably Martin Lee playing the singles, Barry playing the doubles.  Hopefully Jamie comes down for the training week.  If he doesn't, obviously it's disappointing for him.  He's played pretty well this year.  It was a tough decision, but the one that Roger felt was right. 

Q.  Lefties. 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Lefties.  Might need some right-handed practice partners. 

Q.  Roger swears it has nothing to do with the fact he's a lefty, as well. 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  As long as he keeps Tim on the team, we'll be fine (laughter). 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT