WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2001
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Ladies and Gentlemen, Greg Rusedski.  
 
 
Q.  What sort of message does that performance send out to the rest of the field?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think I was pleased.  I wanted to improve my returns today.  Byron doesn't serve as well as Pavel.  But I was really pleased with my ground shots, my return, really picked up.  I've always had good matches against Byron, played historically pretty well against him.  I'm pleased to get that.  It's another match.  Just one match at a time again.  That's all there is to it.  Next match is going to be tough, whether it's Stoltenberg or Ferrero.  Just looking forward to the next match. 
 
Q.  You must have been also happy with the way you were serving.  Particularly in that third set, until the last game, you didn't have a point against your serve. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I played very, very well.  I didn't even know that.  I wasn't counting or anything like that.  You know, I hit a double-fault at 30-Love, then he came up with a good passing shot, played a good point from the back.  But, no, I was well pleased with the way I served.  I thought I served pretty well the last two matches because Pavel and Black are two of the better returners on the circuit.  Very satisfying. 
 
Q.  How is it you're first to get the Manchester United shirt?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I don't know.  I don't know.  
 
Q.  That's what it is, is it?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  No.  This is Donnay in red.  It's Arsenal colours actually.  
 
Q.  You actually got into a nice groove, two different sort of matches so far here? 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  You know, I think it's good because I've been fortunate.  If I play Stoltenberg, Pavel plays similar to Stoltenberg.  If I play Ferrero, Byron Black plays similar, except Ferrero has a little more firepower.  You know, it's been good preparation, two different styles.  That's been very good. 
 
Q.  You had the line judges running scared. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yes.  
 
Q.  Did you speak to the chap you hit afterwards?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  No, I didn't realise.  I was just focused.  Was he still on the line or did he have to leave?  
 
Q.  He left at some stage.  Wasn't sure if it was as a result of being hit or not?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I'm sure he's all right.  It's a tennis ball, not a cricket ball.  If it was a cricket ball, maybe he'd be in trouble.  I didn't mean to hit him.  That's just part of the game, I guess.  
 
Q.  Would you compare or contrast your movement, putting aside your stroking, just your movement and your foot speed around the court today and 1997 when you had your big year. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I think I move better now.  I'm not jumping as much.  I think I'm more balanced around the court.  I think I know what I'm doing out there more than I did in '97.  '97 was more just blood and guts really.  You know, not always having the right technique on certain things, certain movements.  But I think I'm getting more mature, I'm improving, getting better.  When I played the US Open, I was moving awfully well then, as well.  I'm pleased with it. 
 
Q.  With your improved movement, does that open up other options, shot options, for you, particularly around the net?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I think the better you can move, if you look at Rafter, won two US Opens, been to the Wimbledon final, he's done it a lot with his movement and his physical being.  He gets to balls most players don't get to, especially at the net. He makes you play a lot of balls.  Look at Hewitt, another example of a guy who is a phenomenally  well mover.  Just takes advantage.  The better you can move, the better chance you have.  It does open up options, you can play the lob, hit the passing shot, do different things.  It does help. 
 
Q.  The whole tabloid thing here is such a phenomenon for Americans.  We only have a couple. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  You have tons, "The Star", "The National Enquirer."  
 
Q.  That's two. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  You have tons, what are you talking about?  Ours are different.  
 
Q.  Certainly we can't keep up with the British.  I'm sure they track you all year.  It reaches such a frenzy at Wimbledon.  What's your take on that?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I think the papers are behind the British players.  They want them to do really well.  If you do well, they write really well about you.  If you're not doing so well, they'll tell you about it, which is fair enough.  That's just the way it is.  I mean, you know, they're respectful.  It only gets really - how do I say - exciting during the month of grass court season from Queen's to Wimbledon.  Then the rest of the time, unless you're at a US Open finals or semis, it doesn't really get the buzz again.  So, no, I think they're good.  I think the people enjoy the papers.  It's a little bit of fun. 
 
Q.  And covering the off-court stuff, that's just par for the course? 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, it's just par for the course.  Just don't do anything stupid (laughter). 
 
Q.  On that note about the buzz of the grass court season, what did you make about Mr.  Lloyd's comments saying they should rip the grass up and put carpets down?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I think it's a beautiful court.  I think it's great that we still have one grass court tournament in the world.  I don't think it will ever happen to Wimbledon, and I don't think it ever should happen to Wimbledon.  It might be better for players to improve their games playing on hard courts or clay or different surfaces.  But, you know, I'd like to see more tournaments on grass.  That would be better.  But ripping them up, I don't think that will ever happen. 
 
Q.  Fantastic response from the public, as well, today. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, great.  They've been behind me.  I think most of them understand the difficult year I had in 2000.  A lot of people have been very supportive, very much encouraged because I had such a good comeback from last year, everybody was writing me off, down and out.  I had a lot of people on the street and a lot of people coming up to me saying, "Go for it next year, hope everything goes well for you."  I've had a lot of support.  The public really gave me a warm welcome and a warm send-off when I won.  I was well pleased with that.  
 
Q.  Has the fact that you're not seeded this year removed the burden of expectations?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I think last year, from the horrible year I had in 2000, I think, you know, I'm just more relaxed, I'm just enjoying my tennis.  You go through such a year I had, to get to 69, I had to have a hell of an effort to stay at 69 with all the injuries, doctor visits I had.  Now I'm healthy, fit and fighting.  My approach to life is a little different.  I think that helps on the court. 
 
Q.  Was there a point last year where you thought you might not be back here?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, it depends.  If I started off the way I did, if I didn't see the improvement with my last chance with working with Brad and Ryan, Pat introducing me to these people, it was great.  They really worked really hard.  My physiotherapist traveled with me full-time, Ryan Kendrick, Brad Langevad doing all the scientific changes.  It was my last option.  Fortunately for me it's done well.  The team has done a really good job.  I'm hoping to get another three to five years out of tennis. 
 
Q.  On your left wrist, is that a wrist support or a heart monitor?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  No, no, no.  I've worn that for years since the '97 finals of US Open.  Acupuncture point that helps with the wrist.  I had that problem in '97.  It's been great since. 
 
Q.  After you brought out your scouting book at Roland Garros, gained international fame, in your book, what do you say is the key thing when you're playing Sampras, the one key thing for Sampras, the one key thing for Agassi, and what's the most interesting tidbit you can share from your scouting book?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I think Sampras, the thing is you have to make a lot of returns with him because he gets so many, so many cheap points.  He's got a pattern, but I'm not going to give you the pattern on the serve.  Too bad (laughter).  Andre, you've got to really bring it to him and put the pressure on him, give him no cheap points, as well, make him hit the passing shots, hit the extra shot, get him to move around the baseline.  He likes to dominate a player.  He likes to move him and not be the one being moved so much.  If he has to do it, it's great.  But if you can get him to miss those few balls when he's moving a lot, his mentality changes a lot.  Those are the two aspects that I think are key for those two guys. 
 
Q.  The most interesting tidbit you can share with us?  There has to be a gem in there someplace. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, Rusedski never lost to Sampras or Agassi in the finals (smiling).  How is that?  
 
Q.  Have you got anybody looking at this other match?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, Brad left straightaway.  He's watching Stoltenberg and Ferrero at this very moment.  He watches every match, studies the video.  He does a very professional job.  
 
Q.  Just out of curiosity, with this requirement to identify your newspaper, were you consulted on this question?  What's your opinion about it? 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Sorry, I lost you on that one.  
 
Q.  We've been asked to identify whatever publication we represent before asking a question because "the players want that to be done." 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I know all you guys.  I don't mind.  I don't really need it for myself because I know everybody almost in the room.  I'm more than happy.  If that's the procedure, that's fine.  If it's not, it doesn't bother me one way or the other. 
 
Q.  Was it a players' request?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I have not a clue.  I just found out this second press conference I've done that everybody has to announce their name and where they're from.  It's news to me. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Just ask John.  John knows.  
 
Q.  Getting back to the grass issue, although obviously you wouldn't want Wimbledon to change, but do you think it would be a good idea for a lot of the tennis clubs for everyday people in this country to rip up the grass courts and go to hard?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think the French are very fortunate that they have Roland Garros as being the French Open, so a lot of the players grew up playing on clay.  They can come to their championship, their Grand Slam, and play on clay, as well.  You know, it's nice to have the grass there for the players to come to Wimbledon.  But it's probably a better surface to learn on starting with the clay than going to grass.  You've got two things going on:  the clay, you can use all year; the grass, you can only use for part of the season.  I never want to see it gotten rid of.  You know, tennis used to always be on grass, I mean, even in America and different countries.  We've stayed with the tradition of grass.  I think it's done me pretty good over the years.  
 
Q.  Will you be watching any of the other Brits in action, particularly Martin?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I don't know.  I'm just going to go chill out, probably watch a movie.  I'm going to leave after I get done with my press.  I'm going to just relax and see my friends, go out for a meal, get away from the tennis.  I think you can get too much tennis once in a while.  I'm trying to change myself a little bit, instead of just get out of the press conference, glue my eyes to the TV set from like, you know, now until 8:30 or 9:00 or whenever the coverage finishes.  It's better if I just change, don't focus on it as much, just relax outside of it more.  I might have a peek, but if there's a good movie or something else on, I'll probably be watching that.  
 
Q.  What kind of meal would you have, favourite meal?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Favourite meal?  I enjoy sushi, but unfortunately that's a little bit fishy for the tennis coming up.  I'm going to pass on that one.  Once I get done with the Championships, a little bit of sushi, maybe tapas, some Spanish.  Probably now I'm eating more Italian food, pastas and carbohydrates, a little bit of a mixture.  
 
Q.  As an Arsenal fan, do you have any message for Patrick Veiera or Sol Campbell?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Please stay, Patrick, we need you.   Don't go.  As far as Sol, I'm not commenting.  That's dangerous. 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT