WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2001
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Greg Rusedski.  
 
 
Q.  A bit of a change from last year. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I was pleased.  I knew I had a tough match coming in.  I watched the tape of Pavel playing Ferrero last year.  He played a very good match there.  I think I was really pleased with the way I served, volleyed, hit my groundstrokes.  The only thing I was disappointed on today was my return of serve, which will be well-practised tomorrow.  
 
Q.  Kicking off with three sets that went to tiebreak.  For the rest of this tournament, you've already said you don't like to start with a five-setter.  This was as good as you could get. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think it was good quality tennis.  The first set I felt I was playing better, dominating, dominating the tiebreaker.  15-40, had the easy passing shot.  He guessed the right way cross-court instead of up the line.  He played a good tiebreaker.  But six games into that set, I didn't make too many returns.  That was highly disappointing.  He managed to serve for the third set. That was the key to the match, breaking right there and getting back on level terms.  Then saved another set point as well on my serve.  Played a good tiebreaker.  Then in the third, just managed to get the returns going and put it together properly.  
 
Q.  What do you think in the context of the rest of the championships that you've started off in this way?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I'm pleased.  It's always good to get a tough match like that.  I wasn't expecting an easy match today.  As you could see from some of those backhands and some of the returns, he hits.  He's a very, very good player.  I was expecting a tough fight.  I thought I hit the ball pretty well.  You know, I was just pleased to get through.  I think a win in four sets is good.  I think I'm playing Byron Black in the next round.  He made the quarterfinals here last year.  Another difficult match.  But a player I have a good record against.  
 
Q.  How important was it to be on centre court and have the crowd there?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, they helped me.  At 5-4, I got a little bit tight, a bit nervous.  Made two good returns.  He missed one volley.  They helped me to get that break a little bit.  Got them a little bit wound up, a little bit tight.  That definitely helped me.  The crowd was great.  Made a lot of noise, put a little more pressure on him.  It definitely, definitely helped.  
 
Q.  How would you say your game is so different now?  I keep reading about it being remodeled. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  If you watch my serve, I mean, it's a much more easier motion.  It's less work.  We're trying to get the jumping out of my game with my movements, which I didn't do today on the serve, which I've got to clean up tomorrow.  Just all around really, just the way to move properly on the court to take less stress on your body and make life easier.  I think my backhand has gotten a lot better, my forehand, my ground game, just making it more complete.  When I do one or two things wrong, then it goes back a little bit.  The only thing I was disappointed with was the return because the footwork was wrong on it.  That's something we're cleaning up tomorrow.  
 
Q.  McEnroe said, "One down, who knows how many to go." 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Who knows.  I don't know.  
 
Q.  Do you have any idea?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I don't know.  If I had a crystal ball here, maybe I could look into it and let you know.  Unfortunately, I don't.  One down, which is great.  After last year's terrible result, at least I can smile and say I won a match this year compared to last year.  You know, just looking forward to it.  It's a good match-up for me against Byron Black.  I don't think I've ever lost to him in my career in all our meetings.  I think this is probably his best surface, my best surface.  Should be another good match. 
 
Q.  You seem more relaxed, laid back. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I am relaxed.  You go through the year I went through last year, you're going to do one of two things:  you're going to go nuts and crazy or you're going to learn to relax.  I chose the right option of going relaxed (laughter).  I don't think I would be here if I didn't.  
 
Q.  Can I ask you about Martin Lee, how you think Tim might fare against him?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I mean, I played Martin last week.  The first six games he played exceptionally well.  15-40 twice on my serve.  He returned very well.  Had a very good win against Pozzi.  I think it's going to be a difficult ask for him to win that match, but he could play a good performance, maybe three or four sets.  I still think Tim is the high favourite.  But Martin has nothing to lose 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT