TMS - ROME
May 9, 2001
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.


Q.  That must be a wee bit frustrating.  You didn't play that badly, you played pretty well at times, but you didn't get the extra one, two points that were crucial.

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah.  No, I thought Wayne played very well today.  I don't think he made too many unforced errors and he was very, very solid.  He'd make one mistake and then he wouldn't make another one for the game.  But I think I hit the ball well enough to win today, but I think tactically sometimes I made a few mistakes out there.  I should have been more aggressive and forced myself in.  Because when it was crucial points, he was bringing himself more into the net, not serving and volleying per se, but when the rallies would build up.  And I look back at the match now, and I think 15-30, 30-all, certain situations like that I should have been more positive and maybe three or four balls, then bang, come in and let him hit the passing shot.  But he did that to me a lot more than I did to him.  You know, the 40-15 game at 4-all, which I lost, you know, I didn't put a first serve in.  And I should have served and volleyed one or two of those second serves just to give him a different target, because I think I missed three or four forehands. 


Q.  I think it was in the fourth game, you had him at love-30.  It was close, wasn't it?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, it was close.  Well, I heard a click, so it must have hit the line.  So I didn't have time to stop and think about it, I just played through. 


Q.  Obviously, you haven't looked at the  --?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, I was just -- there was no mark there.  But, no, I mean I had a chance  -- I didn't have any break points today but, you know, it's a match where I feel like I hit the ball well, I played pretty solid, maybe one game where I wasn't happy with the percentage of first serve.  But apart from that, I think it's just tactical, going back to work and thinking, "Okay, three, four balls or two, three balls, bang, come in, and take the initiative away from him."  Because I'd rather have him hitting the passing shots than me hitting the passing shots.  That was probably my biggest mistake today. 


Q.  Has the Barcelona element been very useful, do you think?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, I think even though I've only won one match out of three, I think I've played three pretty good matches so far.  I mean, I played against Pavel and could have won, I won my match first round here.  I think I played well against Wayne today.  I think he played very, very well, and he beat Hrbaty 2 and 4 who's quite a solid clay court player.  So I think it has helped with my tennis, it has helped with my game.  And, you know, hopefully I can progress and improve again in Hamburg. So, you know, this is what we have to do if we are going to have any chance against Ecuador in the Davis Cup.  So it's a nice benefit to get more practice.  If I can keep on improving and just working it out, because it's a tough combination for my style of game, how much do I stay back, how much do I come in? And I have to find the right balance.  I'm nearly there, but sometimes I'm playing a little bit too defensive.  I think that's the key, is I still have to stay with my core game, which is offensive, but it's a tough balance in finding the right balance.


Q.  Fine line, though, isn't it?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Exactly.  Right now I'm just -- I'm striking the ball well, doing a lot of things right, but I still need to find that right balance I feel. 


Q.  If you compare the way you're playing on this surface now with, say, a year, two years ago, it's as different as chalk and cheese?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, I feel like I'm playing a lot better.  I feel, you know, I've played two guys who are very good on this surface.  I mean, Ferreira's won titles, Pavel's won titles, and I played them awfully close.  So that is a positive sign for me.  And now it's just finding that little extra -- and that's what Brad and I are going to sit down and work on this week in Rome and get some practice partners here, and just work out more of a strategy.  15-30, I was a little disappointed in myself, especially because I could see him getting a little bit nervous there and a little bit tight, had a chance to break through.  And, you know, I kind of came off the forehand loop instead of just driving through it a little bit flatter, being more positive.  And if I could take a break, I might have won in three sets, but Wayne didn't let me have that little inch.  Because I was just making him play it, but not aggressive enough. 


Q.  Have you been having much to do with Roger the days he's here?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, I've seen Roger a few times.  I think Brad sat down with Roger a few times.  And, you know, I think he's coming to most weeks on the clay.  I hope he's going to have a good idea with what Lapentti does on the clay.  I mean, he should have studied him pretty well, I think, this clay court season.  So he comes around, and Brad and him have his chat, and he watches the matches. So I think it's quite positive to be able to have Davis Cup captain to travel and see, because then the preparation should hopefully be better for next tie.


Q.  Have you got any news of the other Lapentti?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, I didn't  --.


Q.  Winning the matches?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I have no idea, but he played pretty impressive in the last one, so you got to take him pretty seriously.  I'm sure the crowd's going to make a lot of noise there when we're going to be playing in September. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT