AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2001
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions for Greg.  
 
 
Q.  The guy is good, isn't he?  He's quick, nimble?  He can impress upon your game with his style around the court?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think if you ask him, I've seen  -- I don't think I've seen him play a better match.  I thought he played fantastic.  The only thing that maybe I could have got a higher percentage in the first two sets on serves.  Apart from that, he played well.  Have to give him credit.  Fantastic.  He hit some passing shots from running positions.  He had one breakpoint in the first set, took it.  I had one, hit a good return, he played a good point.  All credit to him.  He played as well as I've ever seen him play.  I thought I played pretty well out there.  It's been a great start for me for the Australian Open, a great start to the year.  So I have nothing to be negative about.  It's only positives.  
 
Q.  You seemed to throw the kitchen sink at him in the third, got the breakpoints you were looking for.  Couldn't take them.  Does that leave you with a bit of frustration?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I have no frustration whatsoever.  I got up 3-1.  He had everything falling for him.  3-1 I'm serving.  First game, I hit an angled volley, hits the top of the net.  Next point after, that clips the top of the net, hit a great half volley, creates a running passing shot.  A miss-hit return that goes in the angle on the court.  Everything was falling for him today.  I couldn't complain.  Then I had Love-40 in that game.  I hit a good slice approach, actually half the ball was over the net and dropped on my side.  You know, just one of those days where he had the luck and he played fantastic - too good. 
 
Q.  What was your strategy on your serve going into that match?  Seems to me that you didn't serve full speed for the first two sets.
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I was hoping it was a little hotter so I could slide the ball around and try to get in on him.  You know, I didn't have as good a rhythm as maybe I had the last two matches.  But he puts a lot of pressure on you.  You know, I was trying to get in.  I made a lot of first volleys, but he came up with some great passes.  I started hitting my serve at 200, get in there, mixed it up, stayed back a little, it started to work.  He started getting a hold of the ones I was hitting at 200.  Can't do much about that.  
 
Q.  He opens the court up so well.  Does he disguise it a lot as well?  Is it difficult to read?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  He holds the ball extremely well.  On a Rebound Ace court, when it's not so hot, he's got more time.  You know, he's so fast.  I think he's the fastest man on tour right now.  You know, with footwork like that, he's going to play well.  You don't beat Agassi in three straight sets at the US Open.  The way he played today was just great tennis.  
 
Q.  Overall, you're very satisfied with your first Grand Slam of the year. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I am.  I mean, I haven't been to the fourth round since '99.  Never been to the fourth round of the Australian Open.  I've never beaten a world No.  1 on Centre Court at a Grand Slam.  You know, this has been a great beginning to the year for the whole team and for everybody.  We have only positive.  We thought going into the match today we'd have a great chance, but when someone plays that well, you just say, "Too good."  
 
Q.  Did you actually widen your stance on the serve for a while?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I wasn't really thinking about it, to be honest.  Starting to come a little natural.  That's a good sign.  There's a few things we needed to look at.  I talked to Pat after the match.  He said we just need to tweak the serve a little bit from the first two sets.  Apart from that, he was extremely happy with everything. 
 
Q.  What sort of influence has Pat had on your result here?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I think he's brought together a good team.  He has a biomechanist with Brad Langavad, who works with Melinda.  I have a physio, Ryan Kendrick, who is from Brisbane.  I have a full Australian team with me now.  It's been good.  He brought me together with a lot of people to help prevent injuries, to change my techniques and take stress off my body because he's been through a lot of the things that I've been through.  He's passed on his knowledge and expertise, making me healthy again, giving me those little helps I need on the court.  It's been wonderful. 
 
Q.  You're taking a much more tame, rounded approach?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah.  I've never had such a big entourage in my life. 
 
Q.  Financially (inaudible)?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  You have to speculate to accumulate.  That's the way tennis is.  You know, I've had three very good years prior to this.  I'll do anything I need to try to get myself back.  
 
Q.  How many of them will be with you in Milan?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I don't think Ryan will make the first week of the year, but he'll be there from Copenhagen onwards, because he has to sort out all his stuff back home.  We're going to sit down and discuss whether I'm going to go to Milan or work out and get physically stronger.  We haven't made the decision yet.  We might still go to Milan because I'm two-out at the moment. 
 
Q.  The way you were talking after the previous match, it looked as though you were going to play a lot of tennis in the next months. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yes.  
 
Q.  You feel you need that, do you, to get the rhythm going?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think I've got the rhythm going really well.  It's been fantastic for me.  I worked really hard in November and December and January.  I need to try to play well in those periods, play a lot of tennis.  When I feel healthy, I can play good tennis.  Indoor season is where I've historically done extremely well.  It's nice to go in there feeling fit and strong, having good opportunities.  
 
Q.  Did you ever think coming into this tournament you'd be sitting here now feeling so positive after a good showing?  So many variables around?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  There were a lot of variables around.  We're well ahead of schedule.  We're very positive.  We're very pleased.  We couldn't have asked for more.  The only thing we might not want to see was such a hot Clement today.  Apart from that, we're extremely pleased, everybody.  
 
Q.  How was your hand today?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  No problem.  No problem whatsoever.  Just a little blister.  If I just have a blister for the rest of my career, that's fine.  
 
Q.  Have you set yourself a target in terms of rankings at the end of this year?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  No, not really.  I'm just setting myself to stay healthy, compete, fight and keep on improving my game.  If those things keep happening at the rate they're happening, then that will take care of itself.  So far it's going in the right direction.  
 
Q.  What is your assessment of British tennis at the moment?  Anybody coming up? 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  You know, I think the best person to talk on that would Patrice, the people in the LTA, the people who are running the tournaments, running the junior programs.  You know, I'm focusing on what I'm doing at the moment.  It's very tough for me to get involved in that.  I'd like to get involved more, but it's a difficult thing.  They have programs that they're running and they're doing.  
 
Q.  Is Davis Cup very much a part of your yearly plan?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, I'm looking forward to the Davis Cup.  I'm excited about it.  It will be great.  If myself and Tim are very healthy, we can do well.  We're going to have a tough first round match.  If it's the Ukraine, we go back to Kiev probably on clay.  That will be a good test.  Let's hope Portugal wins so we can be at home in maybe Birmingham or something like that. 
 
Q.  You played pretty well in Ukraine last time. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Actually, that's when I got things started.  Won in the fifth rubber.  Had the good summer on the grass, the good summer at Wimbledon.   
 

FastScripts by ASAP Sports….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT