AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 18, 2001
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  First question, please. 


Q.  What does it feel like after all those problems?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, it's great to get a win against, you know, the world No. 1, I think the best player in the world at the moment.  I'm more surprised than anybody to be honest with you because we're still on a three-month plan, but to go out on Centre Court and to play such a fantastic match against the world No. 1, I couldn't ask for more.  Kind of reminded me of the Davis Cup when I served for it, lost my serve, then managed to take it back in the fifth.  So that was very, very satisfying for me to manage after serving for it to come back and serve for it and win it.

Q.  You were saying before you were going to go out, enjoy it, no pressure on you.  Once you got two sets to one in front, was it easy to keep that frame of mind?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, it was easy to keep that frame of mind.  I think Gustavo played a good game, he had  one break point, hit a return to my feet.  Then I had two points to get back on serve.  I played one bad volley at 15-30 when he won the set 6-2, but I can't complain.  I'm just happy to win.  It's great to be in the next round.  

Q.  When did you last enjoy a match so much?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I'm enjoying my tennis this year.  I think I'm healthy.  When was the last time you saw me scamper for five sets around the court being corner drilled from the best groundstroke player in the world?  And being fresh enough to come out and serve and serve and volley the next game.  Physically it was fantastic and great.

Q.  Have you ever served at 70 percent in your life before for the whole five sets?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I think the first set I didn't serve 70 percent.

Q.  73. 

GREG RUSEDSKI: But, yeah, I think that's probably what helped to win me the match.  Because his second serve return he probably won a lot of points, so I just got on a rhythm and like I said in practice, some days the rhythm's there and it's great and other days I'm not very good.  But today I was pretty good.

Q.  Considering all you've been through, would you say that's your greatest victories?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I think it's my greatest victory by far.  I mean I've never beaten a No. 1 player in the world on a stadium court at a Grand Slam ever.  So for me, that's something very special.  And to do it in Australia and to do it so soon, I couldn't ask for more.  I think I owe a lot to my team and everybody who's been supporting me and helping me out.

Q.  Does it mean even more than beating Sampras in Bercy and the final of the US Open?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, I think it does because of the year I had last year.  You know, I think I've kind of proven that I'm a player again.  Last year I was so injured and now I'm healthy, I'm fighting.  You know, to be able to beat the No. 1 and, you know, it's a great feeling.  It means, hey, I can still play tennis, I'm still healthy.  There's a lot to look forward to now.

Q.  It was a long run of matches that you've lost in the fifth set. 

GREG RUSEDSKI: Don't remind me, please. 

Q.  No, I wondered if you were at all reminded?

GREG RUSEDSKI: No, I didn't actually.  But I know I'd lost quite a few tough ones in the fifth set.  And, no, it was great.  There was a lot of times I could have lost my cool out there and especially on that serve that was out by...  Just slightly.  (Laughter.)  But no, I just enjoyed it.  I stayed calm.  I didn't let things bother me.  You know, if I'm healthy and competing then I have a chance to win.  If I do that, then it's great.

Q.  Where are your expectations going to be now?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Expectations are enjoy tonight, don't worry about tomorrow, and if I keep playing well then I can continue.  If I don't, I've already, to myself I've accomplished a lot because we're still on this three-month plan and I still feel I can get better.  And that's a frightening thing, considering I just beat the No. 1 player in the world.  And I mean I'm just happy.  I mean, fair enough on paper it looks great.  But he didn't have a five-set match, did he?

Q.  You've obviously thought about what you've been doing and whether the serve would hold up.  Now it's held up in such intense circumstances.  Can you almost sort of forget about it not knowing if the changes you've done can hold up in that situation?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, I think, you know, I'm still going to have days where it's going to be  -- it's not going to be as good as tonight.  But it gives me a lot of confidence.  And that's an important thing.  And I served a few aces.  I had a high percentage.  That's a great thing.  My body feels great.  It's taking the stress off my body.  Physically I'm feeling good.  So that's the key.

Q.  Have you spoken with Pat Cash yet?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, I saw Pat for two minutes, and it was great.  We're just really pleased.  I mean we weren't expecting this tonight, to be honest with you.  Last night on the commentary he said jokingly, Rusedski's going to beat Kuerten.   I guess I did it and, you know, we're just really pleased.  I mean we're just going to enjoy it.

Q.  Has it sunk in, what you've done yet?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, I really enjoyed the moment on matchpoint, and, you know, it's great.  But there's still another match to come and still more work to do and we're still in the building process.  But that's why I've got to enjoy these moments because, you know, you don't get them very often.  Especially such a nice  -- to have that crowd behind me when I got that bad call and just to be there from the first point to the last point.  So I'm going to cherish these sort of matches and moments because they don't come along too often.

Q.  Has it surprised you? Two days ago against Ondruska you toughed it out, it was a real fight.  It wasn't pretty?

GREG RUSEDSKI: No, it wasn't.

Q.  Today you played awfully well.

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, it wasn't pretty.  I played much better today.  The centre court's a little quicker than those outside courts.  The fourth set against  Ondruska I played pretty good.  Today I raised it another standard, there's no question about it.

Q.  You said it sends out a message that you're a player again.  Did you feel you needed to send out a message to the other guys on the circuit that you're not finished, injury-prone, you're not going to fall apart every five minutes?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I think I've done that to start this year so far and, you know, it helps when you beat the No. 1 player in the world.  Now guys know I'm going to be competing and I'm going to be there from the first ball to the last ball.  It might not always be the prettiest tennis I play, like tonight.  But at least, you know, competing is just half the battle in this sport.  I mean look at Hewitt today - how well he competed against Haas. If you can win those sort of matches then you can have nights like I had tonight with my tennis. 

Q.  Have you ever volleyed better?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Didn't miss too many.

Q.  More bravely.

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, Pat just said to me, "Just go for it, just lunge out there."  You know, just scrap and go after any volley you possibly can.  That's what I did tonight.  If I didn't do that, I might not have sat here having won. 

Q.  What do you think it is about your game that's so gets to him? You've got a great record against him.

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I've been fortunate not to play him on clay.  (Laughter.)  If I played him on clay, I don't think I'd have such a great record against him.  But the other matches, I lost to him on rebound ace in Sydney, the only loss I had to him.  So to come out here and to beat him is unbelievable.  The other matches I had, he just won the French Open, was playing his first grass court tournament, a Grand Slam Cup was lightning fast, which suits me.  I think this was a truer match for both of us and he's a great player.

Q.  Do you think that given that, though, perhaps against someone else you might not have been as competitive maybe as you were against him tonight? Did seeing him there give you that added impetus?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I think it would have been no matter who it was, but being the No. 1 obviously, it's a great feeling to go out there.  I knew I had a good record against him.  But I still wasn't really expecting to win tonight to be honest with you.  I thought I had a good shot to play well, but to come out and win is a bonus tonight.  And it's a great feeling.

Q.  Greg, when you served for the match the first time it was possibly one of your few bad moments of the match.  Did you, when you got a second chance, did you say now just go back to what I've been doing and calm down a bit?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, I mean I think I rushed that game a little bit, and I didn't hit any double-faults which was great.  But I didn't help myself either because the kick serve sat up for him to hit a little bit and at 30-all I wish I would have slowed down a little and taken my time.  When I served for it again I put three first serves in a row then a second serve kick.  By then I knew I had him so it was great.

Q.  How important was it to see him bashing his bag, breaking his racquet.  He couldn't get hold of the serve.

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah.  That always helps, you know, body language is a key, and, you know, I think Gustavo, you know, really wanted to do well here and some  -- I match up well against him a little bit as well.  There's not too many lefty serve-and-volleyers out there anymore.  But I'm just pleased. 

Q.  Did you study a tape of Wayne Arthurs?

GREG RUSEDSKI: No.  I haven't studied a tape of Wayne Arthurs but he serves awfully well, too.

Q.  (Inaudible)?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, I saw that match.  He played very, very well.  That's a quicker court.  And I think Gustavo's a better player now than he was then but Wayne played a tremendous match. 


FastScripts by ASAP Sports….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT