TMS - STUTTGART
November 3, 2000
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
 
Q. First of all, we noticed that you had some sort of support on your back. You said
yesterday that you were feeling it in the second set. How bad was it today? What did you
do before the match to treat it?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: No, I thought it was absolutely fine. It didn't affect me during the
match at all. I have no excuses for today. It was just a little stiff from yesterday,
nothing serious whatsoever. Just didn't affect me at all. I think Lleyton just played
really well. He served extremely well today. I didn't serve as well as I could. I thought
I played better than I did last time I played him in Basel the week before. But if you
don't serve the corners well and put enough first serves, you're going to be in an awful
lot of trouble with him. The body feels good. Looking forward to Paris. I feel all right. 
 
Q. You said yesterday that when you're not moving well, you're not playing well. Today
you weren't moving well. 
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, the problem I had was with the returns. He always got me in
trouble. I was always really low and down. I've just got to improve that area of my game.
He keeps his serve so, so low, it's hard to generate anything off of it. He'd have me from
the first ball on, on a string, because if I couldn't get it back, he's really dictating.
That's just the way tennis is, a little soreness, nothing serious at all. He played very
well.  
 
Q. You dashed out of here last night. Are you at liberty to tell us where you were
headed for?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: No, I'm going to keep that private, to be honest. Everything is fine.
Everything is good.  
 
Q. Were you deliberately holding something back on the serve today? The pace was much
slower than certainly the last two rounds on average. 
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I was trying to mix it up. Every time I went for the big one, he'd hit a
cracking return on me. I didn't have a good rhythm. I think the last few matches, I've
been serving between 60, 70, 80 percent. Today was in the 50s. I was trying to get the
rhythm back on my serve. I had a poor day serving. Against Lleyton, he puts the pressure
on you to serve well. If you don't, he punishes you for it. That's what he did today. Both
matches I played against him, I haven't served as well as I'd like. That's something I
have to do against him. He's tough because he really gets those returns back. You hit a
good serve, he manages to get it over and make you play that one extra ball. I think he
did a really good job. You know, it's another lesson, another step forward.  
 
Q. You said that earlier in the year you were having difficulty stringing two matches
together, you were pleased you got three. Now you have more here. 
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Yes. 
 
Q. How does your body compare now, after that length of matches, compared with the
previous ones?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I felt pretty good. I mean, I was really pleased, you know. I feel
healthy. I feel like I'm ready for Paris. I'll be absolutely fine. I'm looking forward to
it. Hopefully, I can go one better than I did this week. That would be really great. You
know, it was a big match for me today. I wish I could have won because it would have
brought me to around 50, brought me closer to my goal. Too good. Lleyton has beaten three
good serve-and-volleyers: Krajicek, Henman, played very well against me. I think he's
going to be tough. The courts are a little bit slow. If you're not really on your game a
hundred percent, he's really tough. I think he's got a great record against Kafelnikov, as
well.  
 
Q. A lot of people have been enthused about him being so good at a young age. A few
have said, "He's so good, how can he get that much better?" Do you think he can
still improve?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: What I'm impressed with is his serve. It doesn't really look like it's
that big a weapon, but it's really tough to read. I think he's really improved that area.
His mind is very strong. He's there from the first ball to the last ball. I think he
reminds me of someone a little bit like a Jimmy Connors, the way his attitude is out there
and the way he works. I think he's a great player. You have to play good tennis to beat
him. 
 
Q. He is an all-court player?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: He can play on anything. He's a very good player. I give him a lot of
credit. I'm impressed with such a young age, at 19, being such a good player. He's an
all-arounder. With the conditions getting slower, the balls, he's not your favorite
opponent to hit, I don't think, for anybody these days. 
 
Q. The way they're moving this game, it's playing into his hands, isn't it?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: It is. It is. It's his sort of style. Unless you can come out on a
quicker court, even a US Open, even there he did exceptionally well getting to the semis.
I mean, I'm impressed. Darren Cahill has done a good job with his serving, and all aspects
of his game have improved. He's volleying better, mixing it up, he's clever. 
 
Q. Was your back a new problem or something you've had earlier as a result of your
foot?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Just something, a little bit of soreness, no big deal. 
 
Q. But not a new injury?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: It's not a new injury. It's just tightness from playing on the courts.
Nothing serious. Nothing to worry about. Back to training on Monday for me, getting ready
for Paris.  
 
Q. Did you wear a brace?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: It's just a hot pack, hot bandage. It keeps it warm. Instead of putting
cream, you put a bandage on it. It keeps it warm. 
 
Q. Is it something that your man from Munich advised? 
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: He says to keep it warm, that's the biggest key. Everything is in place,
everything is good. I haven't played four matches in a while. These courts are pretty
rough on the body. I think, if you talk to anybody, they'll say this is probably the
hardest surface to play on. 
 
Q. Did you go to see him in Munich? 
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I'm getting a lot of questions today. I didn't fly there, I'll tell you
that much (laughter). 
 
Q. It is a short drive. 
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I didn't drive there either. 
 
Q. Were you driven there?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: No. 
 
Q. Lying flat in the back (laughter)?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: No.  
 
Q. There were rumors last night, not coming from the press, but other areas, that you
wouldn't be fit to get on court today. Was that ever close?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: No, it was never close. I was always going to be on court today. I was
looking forward to the match. No, it was fine. Just back spasms. You know, took care of
them. There's no problem today.  
 
Q. Did he come and see you?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Did he come and see me? He helped me out, let's put it that way. Are you
happy now (laughter)? He gave me some help, now I feel fine. Is that easy enough? It's
like pulling teeth here today (laughter).  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT