TMS - STUTTGART
October 31, 2000
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR: Greg faces the winner of Santoro and Safin. 

Q. Earlier you said you had misplaced your serve. You seemed to find it today. 

GREG RUSEDSKI: I thought that was one of my best serving performances this year. I must
have served about 80 percent. Didn't miss too many first serves. 

Q. 77. 

GREG RUSEDSKI: Something like that. No, it was really good. You don't want to give him
a chance from the back because the court is slow enough that he can really make you move,
make some returns. It was really a satisfying performance today.

Q. Was that as well as you have done this year?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I think that's definitely as well as I've done. It's about as well as
I've served this year. It's pleasing because those are two matches I should win. I came
out and I won them convincingly. That was a real positive. On a clay court, I think it
could be a different story against him. 

Q. You also covered a lot of ground. 

GREG RUSEDSKI: I was pleased with that. I knew he was going to go for his ground shots.
I had to really keep it going with him. He has a lot of spin, hits the ball full out. I
mixed it around, made him hit the unforced errors.

Q. You moved very well. 

GREG RUSEDSKI: I was pleased. My footwork was good. I felt good out there. It's all
starting to come back, slowly but surely. Next round is going to be a good test. Probably
going to be Safin or Santoro. Santoro beat him at the Olympics. You never know what can
happen. Another great opportunity.

Q. Those of us that had to turn around and go home yesterday --?

GREG RUSEDSKI: -- Including my wife on the same flight as you. 

Q. Pickard was summarizing. He was talking about that glitch at the top of your serve
that he spotted at Queen's last year. He said that's gone now. 

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah. 

Q. Is that just because you're moving freer now?

GREG RUSEDSKI: It's my body is allowing me to do it now. That's a real big plus for me.
My body, the whole year this year, has been feeling pretty rough. I think last week in
Basel I felt great, really good after three matches, even though I didn't play as well as
I'd like in the third one. The body feels really good. That's so important. The mind is
good. The combination of both is really going well now. 

Q. How much was the win over Krajicek in Basel a turning point? Seemed to me that was
the one sort of match you needed to get behind you to prove to yourself that everything
was steaming ahead. 

GREG RUSEDSKI: I think it was a positive. When I played a first round singles match, I
usually felt a little bit tough after the first one. When I beat Kafelnikov in Vienna, I
played pretty poor after that. Didn't feel so good. To beat Krajicek, feel good after
winning that match really helped me. I hadn't beaten Richard in quite a few years. I
returned well, I moved well, I felt really sharp. That was a big plus for me. 

Q. Where do you think you are now on the way back? How far on the road?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, I think it's really a buildup for 2001. You know, I'm going the
right direction at the moment. My body and my mind feel good. Those are two big keys.
Tomorrow is another great test for me. If Safin comes through, I'll be able to answer that
question better because he's a great indoor player, US Open champion, top player in the
world. If he doesn't come through, then it's another test because it's one I should win.

Q. You have a day off. Would you rather play every day to keep the momentum going?

GREG RUSEDSKI: No, I don't mind. It doesn't really make a difference. You can have one
day off, the rest you go all the way through. It's fine by me. Safin didn't play today.

Q. You haven't been traveling with a coach we know. Have you still got the German guy
with you?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I don't have the physiotherapist with me anymore. I'm not traveling with
one. I still have a physical trainer from the clinic who gives me all my exercises.

Q. Is he on the road?

GREG RUSEDSKI: He came to the Olympics, and I see him when I'm off the road more or
less. He's giving me a program to keep strengthening all the areas.

Q. You don't really need someone with you all the time. Is that another good step?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Definitely another good step forward because I don't need the physio
with me there full-time now. I can look after my body with the tour physios. Body has been
very, very good to me. I think now I'm just looking forward to moving on in the future and
looking for a coach at the moment. That's the most important thing. 

Q. Is that a daily program you have, the one that he gives you?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, I have a daily program. He adds extra exercises and stuff, we talk
on the phone. He keeps everything in check to strengthen all areas so everything stays in
place.

Q. Do you find that difficult?

GREG RUSEDSKI: No, it's not too bad. Most players do at least an hour a day minimum.
It's just something professionals have to do when you get older. When you're 25, 24, you
can kind of get away with not doing as much.

Q. Do you do an hour?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, I do about an hour every morning before I start. If I have a day
off, there's more that I do. 

Q. His name again?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Marcus Zeitelmeisl. 

Q. Who have you been hitting with? 

GREG RUSEDSKI: I've been practicing with the guys. It's very easy when you're on tour
to practice with everybody. If I'm not back in London, I'll practice with just the boys
who are around, everybody who is there. Last two weeks before Vienna, I didn't have much
practice. 

Q. Apart from all the other feelings you have, is there a sense of relief you're
beginning to have?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I think it's a more positive outlook. It is a little bit of a sense of
relief because, you know, you kind of question yourself, "When is this going to
stop?" You can accept when you lose to somebody because they play better tennis; but
it's hard when you're not feeling your best out there and your mind and body aren't
allowing you to do things. Now it's satisfying because if I lose, I know I lost because
the guy played better than me rather than other things affecting it. 

Q. Was there a particular point when that really got to your mind, "When is this
going to stop?" Was there one particular point, maybe Sydney or something like that,
Olympics?

GREG RUSEDSKI: It just gets frustrating when you have it nearly a year now. It's the
longest I've had injuries. Before in '98, I twisted my ankle before Wimbledon. I came back
from that. '97 I had my wrist. I've had things in the past that I've come back from, but
not so often reoccurring. I think the turning point was probably last week in Basel. That
was a big week for me.

Q. Were you ever in danger of losing heart?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Losing heart? 

Q. "What am I doing here?"

GREG RUSEDSKI: You kind of question yourself with that when you're losing to people you
feel you should beat. I've played at a high standard the last three years. This year,
being 89 or whatever I am in the world, for me isn't very satisfying, to be honest with
you (laughter).

Q. Was there any one particular really low match or point?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I think Wimbledon was pretty terrible this year, as you guys can well
imagine. I think the Davis Cup, getting reinjured after I come straight back from
Wimbledon, that doesn't help life where you have to sit out for another five or six weeks.
So it was just like on off, on off. I think those two points were very frustrating. You
know, then I played pretty well I thought at the US Open and felt pretty good. Started
from Tashkent to Sydney, Vienna, then the last few weeks, this week and last week, I feel
really good. Hopefully everything is coming together. 

Q. Were you actually playing through physical pain or discomfort? What was it when your
injury was reoccurring?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Just the foot flaring up and aggravating. It's just something that needs
to maintain strength and getting the right shoes and right orthotics. Just having your
body - because other areas of your body go unstable, you know, it's like just the body
aches and hurts, isn't always in the best shape because it's just going out of place, into
place all the time. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT