TMS MONTE CARLO
April 17, 2000
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
Q. Call it an eventful match, really, one way or another?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I think it was. I think I played pretty well the first two sets. And I
got myself back in when he served for the match and I was hustling and competing a lot of
balls and then I had -- my opponent took a ten minute toilet break when I had him down and
out and tired, so it is a little bit of gamesmanship out there. It worked in the third. I
went off my boil, I lost my rhythm a little bit and didn't make him -- compete the way I
had the first two sets and he really took advantage.

Q. When you actually got up to go for your own brief toilet break, was that partly
because you were just sick of sitting around?

GREG RUSEDSKI: No, I needed to take a pee. I went in the back, I wanted to see how far
away the toilet was. It was right behind the court. I just wanted to see how far away it
was because, you know, I could see he was really tired after the second set and just
sitting in the cubicle for ten minutes, it is a good idea, I should have handled it; been
more professional and managed to deal with the situation, raised my game, and play better
in the third set because of it, but I wasn't happy about it and I told him at the end of
the match I wasn't happy about that ten minute toilet break.

Q. Did he say anything about it when you raised it?

GREG RUSEDSKI: No. He just apologized because he missed a few balls that weren't good
at the end of the third set, but he didn't have much to say about it. So I just wasn't
impressed; it's as simple as that.

Q. What was the umpire saying when it was -- I mean--

GREG RUSEDSKI: I don't know what the umpire was saying. Fair enough if somebody needs
to take a toilet break, the rules are there to take them. There has got to be a
limitation. Ten minutes is too long. And at the end of the day I lost a match not because
of a toilet break but just because of not sustaining my level and raising my game even
though I had the advantage after winning the second set.

Q. What about -- there was an awful lot of, I suppose you might call, sporty bounces?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, you are going to get that, obviously, with this sort of weather
and being in the clay, I think if I would have kept better depth like I did in the first
two sets then I might not have gotten many sporting bounces that is part of tennis; that
is part of the clay court tennis and something, you know, you just got to -- you have got
to handle and I didn't handle that well in the third set and my level went down, his
raised, and that was the difference.

Q. At this time last year you were playing on clay playing here in similar weather?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, I don't mind playing in this weather; had a good preparation. I
think I am playing better this year than I did last year, but I still had the same result,
losing first round. Obviously, I'd still like to be in the tournament that is the
disappointing thing about it.

Q. How frustrating, particularly early in that third set, the rain was so heavy you
couldn't hear the ball being hit --

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah. 

Q. Did that make any difference to you as well or not?

GREG RUSEDSKI: No, I think it was the same for both of us so there is nothing to
complain about that. I think I played really bad first two points to open up the third
which hurt me. I missed two easy returns I should make. And I just didn't keep point by
point, ball by ball, like I did the first two sets. That really hurt me because he is
quite good on the clay, and if I don't sustain that level, after he got his wind back and
got everything back then you know you are going to be in a tough match; that is what
happened to me. He took full advantage of the situation.

Q. I remember Kiefer saying after you lost to him last year when you had been in a
winning situation he said something: Like I knew I had to get to Greg in some way to turn
the match around. Clearly Slava got to you today. Do you think --

GREG RUSEDSKI: I just find it really bad that you can do that. I just find it, you know
-- fair enough if you have to walk all the way back here and that, but there is a toilet
sitting right outside the court, I mean, I don't know about you and me when I go to the
loo, it doesn't take me ten minutes. So it is something that I have to handle and
something that I definitely have to take advantage of, it was a good play by him. It is
within the rules, you are allowed to do it. So, you know, good to him but, you know, it
really frustrated me.

Q. But isn't that the point, that it did get to you and as you said, halfway through
that, you have got to learn to deal with those --

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, I just find it hard because you work and you work - clay is not my
best surface. Anywhere I want to play, I want to try to win. When you feel you got your
opponent down and out then he can take a 10 minute break, a breather, kind of nice, like
me putting my feet up and getting something to eat, come back and continue which I think
is not right. There has got to be some way around this. Fair enough, people need toilet
breaks, I completely agree with that. Five minutes, but ten minutes is just not right.

Q. Do you know if he came back to the clubhouse or --

GREG RUSEDSKI: I don't know, but there was a toilet -- they took me to the toilet
straight behind, so, if they took him all the way to the clubhouse then that explains it a
lot more, obviously, but if the toilet is right behind the court, it just frustrates me.
That is just the way I feel. I might have still lost the match, but it is just really
irritating to lose with that sort of thing when that thing happens.

Q. I was talking to David Lloyd the former Davis Cup captain the other day. He was
talking about you and clay and everything. And you know he thinks a lot of you. He thinks
it would have been -- might be better for you if you didn't play the clay court season at
all. Really concentrate on getting yourself ready for Wimbledon, a big shot on grass,
totally fit for the grass?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, it's a hard decision to make that because unfortunately you get
zero pointers with the Super 9 -- you get 3 zero, actually 4, if you don't play any of the
clay and your ranking would go totally to the pots. You have kind of have to play the clay
season. It is good to work on the game, my serve, my areas, but obviously, if I had a
choice, I could play a little bit less clay but with the system that has arisen you have
to play quite a fair amount.

Q. If the system was the same as it was last year where you didn't get zero points,
would that be a chance you wouldn't play these three Super Nine Master Series? 

GREG RUSEDSKI: I don't know. That is a good question, but I don't know.

Q. Bearing in mind, you know it's a long time since you went into Wimbledon 100% fit?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, I would like to do that. Hopefully if I can build my strength and
stamina on the clay, this might be good for me to do this. But I think the clay is good
for me and if I can be healthy in Wimbledon, that would be great.

Q. Irritations apart, were you reasonably well pleased with how well you rallied today
because there were some very long points and you won probably about 60% of them?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, I think my backhand topspin is getting a little better on the
passing shot today. Still got to keep working those returns. I think the grinding from the
back is better, but I have got to -- I have just got to be there ball by ball and third
set I wasn't there ball by ball; that is what clay is all about, it is about being there
for every single ball and I think the first two sets I did that well and I was pleased
with that third set. I think I let myself down a bit.

Q. Barcelona next?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Barcelona next. 

Q. What are you going to do now?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I don't know.

Q. Stay around and there are good practice facilities here but looking out the
window...

GREG RUSEDSKI: It is a tough decision to make. Obviously I have been working hard in
the gym trying to get stronger, so I have got to talk to Swen and make a decision, but I
am going to be doing a lot of gym work trying to get stronger; then if I get stronger I
can complete out there and it is really in between the ears for the rest of the match.

Q. What is it like actually playing on that court with the roof on?

GREG RUSEDSKI: It is quite humid; a little darker. You'd expect it to be quicker than
it is, but actually isn't that quick, so it is kind of deceptive.

Q. Does the roof seem imposingly low?

GREG RUSEDSKI: It is a little bit low, but it didn't make any effect today. I think it
was fair for both players out there. It is nice for the tournament to be able to put a few
matches on with this sort of weather because at this time of year you never know what is
going to happen.

Q. For what it's worth it is belting with rain home.

GREG RUSEDSKI: Perfect, so if I go home it will probably start raining and if I stay
here it will probably start raining.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT