TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 28, 2000
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







ATP: Questions. 

Q. You played him one round too late. 

GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, I thought Pete played very well tonight. I think for about a set
and a half, he didn't make any unforced. I felt I played better than I did in Scottsdale,
even though I lost 3-3 today. What else can I say? He was too good. 

Q. Is he still the best?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, I think if his body holds up, he is. I think the key for him is
just trying to get physically fit and feel better. I think for a set and a half, I didn't
really have too many chances. He was serving the corners extremely well. You know, I felt
like things were getting better, but I still need room to improve and be more aggressive.
In the second set, I got more aggressive on the returns. First three games, I think I
pushed him pretty well. Then the one service game, I made two unforced errors, one of them
being a double-fault. That's all he needs.

Q. But even when you are touching your best, he was still able to come up with some
magnificent backhands. 

GREG RUSEDSKI: He returned very well, hit some great passing shots. That's why he's
considered the best or one of the best ever to play the game. You don't win six Wimbledons
by fluke and six years at No. 1. You've got to do something right. I think after his
performance where he had such a tough match, he really wanted to come out and play well.
That's what he did tonight.

Q. In that kind of form he was in, is there probably only one other guy in the world
that could have beaten him?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I think for about a set and a half, I don't think anybody would have
beaten him.

Q. Even Andre?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Even Andre. It's a different game with Andre, though. Andre is going to
stay back. He's not going to give him a target. Pete was serving and striking the ball
beautifully for a set and a half. If you take Andre at his best or Pete at his best, I'd
say Pete every time except for on clay.

Q. That set and a half, all the other matches you played against him, where would you
put that performance?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I think that's the best he's played against me. I have nothing to be
ashamed of. I'm on my road to going in the right direction still. I think it's improving.
I've had some tough draws - Kafelnikov twice, Sampras twice; Mirnyi was the only
opportunity I had, which was Indian Wells, only time I felt like I had an opportunity and
didn't take it. So far I'm reasonably satisfied with the way things have been going.

Q. If you had more than two weeks to prepare for Wimbledon, would it make a difference?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I don't know. I think I'm preparing throughout the year trying to get
physically stronger, get my movement, to get everything in. I think my goal now is to get
ready for French Open, Wimbledon and the US Open - for the Slams. I think the preparation
on the clay is good for the sliding and the movement. If you can serve-and-volley well on
the clay, then when it comes to grass, it's a lot easier. I'm just looking forward to
that.

Q. So during the clay season, you always have an eye toward Wimbledon?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, I do. Realistically I'm not going to go out and win the French
championships. I think you can get pretty good odds on me winning the French Open. I think
you get a thousand to one. 

Q. Not even on the board. 

GREG RUSEDSKI: Not even on the board. Whatever it is, it's pretty low. I just use it as
a preparation. I can play well there, but to win it is quite demanding.

Q. Do you do any grass court playing during the clay court season?

GREG RUSEDSKI: No, I don't. I just work on the clay and try to play well there. I think
you can play well on the clay. I think quarters or semis. I haven't seen a serve and
volleyer win it in years. 

Q. Were you cutting back on the pace on your serve a little in order to go for other
things, more rhythm?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, whenever I served really hard to Pete, he seemed to block it in my
feet. When I got broken that first game, I had like three half volleys at the bottom of my
feet. Then I tried to mix it up a little bit. I think where I made a mistake in the second
set was I kicked a few too many to his forehand and he got a rhythm on it. If I would have
mixed it up a little bit more, then I might have been able to keep holding my serve. With
Pete, you have to mix them. If you come hard all the time with them, he's very dangerous
and he gets that good block low on your feet and you have a tough half volley to hit.

Q. You asked us not to ask about a certain subject till you're out. We abided by that.
Can we ask you again? Will you make any comment?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, I'll make you soon. How is that? Sooner than later. 

Q. Can you give us some idea when?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Before the draw, how is that? 

Q. Before the draw?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yes.

Q. How will you release it?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I'll release it and let you guys know. I promise. 

Q. Will we watch for smoke coming over your chimney? Could you do it on a Saturday?
You'll do it through Fran?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Fran will do it and sort it out. It will be great. Just stay positive,
guys, okay (laughter)? 

Q. Will you leave the country before she makes the announcement? 

GREG RUSEDSKI: No, I won't be leaving the country, so don't worry about it. 

Q. Everybody is talking about Davis Cup, I assume. I haven't made any promises not to
ask. What is the mystery surrounding it? Can you explain why your thinking on this needs
to be reserved for some special time? 

GREG RUSEDSKI: The mystery? Go pick up some English newspapers and you'll find out the
mystery (laughter). 

Q. Have you spoken to Roger over here?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, I've seen Roger. Roger has been at most practice sessions, been
around watching the tennis. I've had amicable chats with him and Jeremy while they're
down. Just social chats.

Q. Are you starting to enjoy this game between you -- ?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, it's nearly over, okay? Let's leave it at that, okay? 

Q. I'm trying to be sure of the timing of this. Bearing in mind we'll be traveling on
Monday, it won't be like when we're in the air?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Probably while you're in the air (laughter). What time does the flight
leave at? 

Q. With, or particularly some parts of this match, is that the best tennis you've
played this year so far?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, I think I'm going in the right direction. I got more aggressive in
the second set. I think at some stages I played really well. It's really hard to tell
against someone who is playing that well. I mean, I still have to raise my game, let's put
it that way, to compete with Sampras, Kafelnikov and Agassi's of the world. I think my
best chance was to beat Kafelnikov in Rotterdam. I think that was a great opportunity. The
other matches I had with Sampras, once with Kafelnikov, I felt like they were the better
players in those three matches. 

Q. Who do you pick to win this tournament?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I think it's quite fascinating. I think there's a few players who can
win it. If Pete's back holds up, I think he's definitely the favorite. If his physical
body can take him through the whole thing. Andre played very well today against Rafter.
But, I mean, Henman played pretty well against Rios. It should be interesting. I think
those three guys have the best chance at the tournament.

Q. What do you think of Hewitt?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I think he's phenomenal. I think Hewitt will probably get through to the
semis. I think he'll probably beat Gambill, in my assessment. He'll probably play Sampras,
which will be tough for him to win. You know, he's a great fighter. He gives a hundred
percent. I've never seen anybody with so much energy in my life. I mean, he's like a
jumping bean. He's got great energy, focus. He reminds me a little of Jimmy Connors with
his attitude. He's very good.

Q. Were you surprised that Gambill beat Philippoussis?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I think he's a great player. He hasn't had a good year so far. He's
beaten Norman, he's beaten Philippoussis. He's beaten a lot of solid players. I think he's
finally putting it back together again. It's great to see. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT