TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 26, 2000
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







ATP: Questions. 

Q. That first set is the best you've played for a long, long time?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I think I played really well. I thought for about a set and a half I
served the best I've served since I've come back. The percentage was good; a lot of aces;
a lot of clean winners. Then I got those two foot faults and one warning, and things went
a little bit all over the place. Managed to come back and win in the tiebreaker.

Q. You're not a man that habitually gets warned. What was your take on that?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I thought it was a little bit of a bad call, to be honest. I rolled the
ball.

Q. The foot fault?

GREG RUSEDSKI: The foot faults, I didn't think I foot faulted. All of a sudden they
changed crew. I hadn't been called for a set and a half, then I get two at 30-15. Then I
get the other I think it was 15-Love, then 15-30, on big, big points, out of the blue, for
no reason, where for a set and a half I hadn't been called for anything. To get a warning
for rolling a ball slowly into the corner. . .

Q. Is that what you did?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I didn't hit the ball; I tapped it there. It was in between the line
judge and the ball kid. I don't know, I think it was a pretty tough warning.

Q. Are you pleased how well you recovered from that?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah. I think it was key. I mean, I was a little upset after that point.
I played a bad game on Byron's serve. He really took advantage of the situation, got to
5-2, held 5-3, then I played a gutsy game to get the break back. If I wouldn't have got
the break back, we might have been in the third set. Anything can happen in the third set
considering he's such a good competitor.

Q. Did the way you played in the first set allow you to have the confidence when you
were down 4-2, 5-2, to start playing again?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, I think every game in the second set I had a chance on his serve.
I think I got to deuce. I didn't get many breakpoints, but I was getting deuce. I missed a
few easy forehands from the ground. I let him take it to me, be more aggressive. In the
beginning, every time I had a short ball, I came in, attacked. In the second set, I didn't
do that enough, which I have to do because against a player like him, whoever takes the
initiative first is going to win. My game is not staying on the baseline. 

Q. You told us the other day that you were heading for the practice court on your day
off to work on the serve. How much time did you put in?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I worked on the three areas I wanted to work on: my return, my serve and
my backhand. At least I made two backhand passing shots today out of five. That was nice
(laughter). 

Q. A couple of hours; more than that?

GREG RUSEDSKI: No, just about an hour and a half, just with Sven, drilling and serving,
working. It's getting there. Tomorrow is going to be the same thing, keep working on the
serve, the returns and the passing shots. Against Sampras, it's probably going to be quite
a level higher.

Q. Is there a danger of overdoing it?

GREG RUSEDSKI: No, not really, I don't think, because I feel physically strong, I feel
good. I'm still trying to find my game at the moment, I feel. I need all the work I can
get on the court. The more work I can get, the better off I am. If you're slightly off
against Sampras, I'm going home. I might as well put in the effort.

Q. How would you assess Pete's game now? Has it slipped in any way? Is he as feared as
you?

GREG RUSEDSKI: If you serve 78%, you beat Moya 1 and 4, that makes quite a good
statement to start the tournament. I think he's been struggling with injuries a little
bit, with his back and his body. If he gets himself physically back to where he was at the
end of probably not last year but the year before, I think, you know, he can dominate the
game still.

Q. Do you think he'll be able to do that?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I don't know. You'll have to ask him. I don't know how he feels when he
wakes up in the morning.

Q. How frustrating has it been for you since you got back, the most feared weapon
hasn't been functioning that well? Do you get a bit grouchy about it or can you be
philosophical about it?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I think I can be philosophical about it because my three to four losses,
two to Kafelnikov, one to Sampras, one to Max Mirnyi. This week I'll probably be playing
Sampras again. I've beaten most of the guys I'm supposed to beat. I've just got to keep on
working, keep on improving my game if I'm going to have to progress in these sorts of
events.

Q. After the last match, you said it's like getting into a car and expect to it drive,
it's not quite there. 

GREG RUSEDSKI: It's getting better. I think, you know, I was doing my gear shift
analogy. I think I got into third, into fourth, then it kind of rickled around a little
bit again (laughter). It's just getting it smoother and keeping on practicing. It's a
matter of time. Having such a long layoff, it will click, it's just I'd rather have it
sooner than later. I've still got time to work on it.

Q. Was it the same after the ankle injury?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, I think it was the same. I think if you look, the US Open is when
I came back. I was still struggling a little bit in those respects. The balls are a lot
quicker with the US Open ball than the tour ball.

Q. When you play against someone like Pete, in the day before do you try to remember
the good moments like Paris Indoors?

GREG RUSEDSKI: With Pete, you kind of know where he's going, but he does it so well.
It's just trying to keep the pressure on him. You've got to serve well against Pete, hold
the pressure on him. When I beat him in Paris, I served really, really well. I managed to
keep the pressure on him by making a lot of returns. Even though I didn't win a lot of
points on my returns in the beginning, he had to hit a lot of volleys. When it came to
later stages in the match, I got a few double-faults. The first who breaks down on their
serve is the one who's going to lose. The last little while, it's been me who has been
breaking down on the serve. That's going to be the key to the match.

Q. You've done a lot of work here on stuff that suits your game naturally, serving,
volleying, stuff like that. Presumably you'll be going to Europe to play the clay events.
Does that throw a monkey wrench into it? I presume you want to now get your fundamental,
foundational best game in order. Does it throw you off that you have to go to clay and
start making adjustments, get away from practicing the way you're practicing here?

GREG RUSEDSKI: No, not really. I think clay is going to be good. They're supposed to be
having a quicker ball on the clay courts. I'm still going to be working my
serve-and-volley, coming in, being aggressive. I'm going to be playing the Melingenis,
Moyas, I'm going to be kicking myself in the head staying back with those guys. I'll be
working on my serve-and-volley, chipping, charging, attacking. You have to be a bit more
patient. On the clay it's just more work. If I can serve well, I can play anywhere. Rome
and Paris are very, very fast clay court events to do well in.

Q. After here, where do you go?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Monte-Carlo, Barcelona.

Q. Nothing between here and Monte-Carlo?

GREG RUSEDSKI: No, Monte-Carlo, Barcelona.

Q. Clay preparation time, is it?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah. I'm probably going to have a few days off, really hit it hard in
the gym, get stronger. 

Q. If you had one wish within the sport of tennis, what would that be?

GREG RUSEDSKI: In what respect? 

Q. You choose, any respect. 

GREG RUSEDSKI: In changing tennis, whatever I want to do? 

Q. Right. Play against somebody, win a title. 

GREG RUSEDSKI: I think everybody's one wish would just to win Wimbledon. I think for me
that would be great, to win a Slam. It's the only thing I haven't done in my career. If
you're talking about changing something in tennis -- you're not? 

Q. No. 

GREG RUSEDSKI: That's easy then (laughter).

Q. What would it mean for you to win at centre court?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I think it would be special. I mean, the last British player to win was
Fred Perry in '36. That was a millennium ago. I think every player is measured by if
they've won a major. Rios has been No. 1, but he hasn't won a major yet. A lot of great
players have gone through without winning a major. That's really what puts you in a
different category as a player.

Q. If you never won a major - not to be negative - do you think something would be
missing in your career?

GREG RUSEDSKI: At least I gave myself the best chance. But I couldn't rate myself as
high as some of the other players because I haven't won a Slam, definitely. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT