TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 24, 2000
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MIKI SINGH: Questions.  
 
Q. How did you feel out there?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, I thought it was a tough match today because Andrei plays
extremely well in the wind, in tough conditions like this. For a first round match, I'm
very pleased to get through. I had a few lapses in the first set on my serve, but I think
in the second I served pretty well, you know, took advantage when I needed to. So it's
great just to come out with a win 4 and 5. 
 
Q. How long were you actually hanging around here?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I got here at 12 o'clock, so it doesn't help when you have a three-hour
ladies match and a two-and-a-half hour ladies match, two-hour Rosset match. It was one of
those days where you've got to be patient, you know, just get out there and try to get a
good start. 
 
Q. Did you eat once, twice?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Just ate once. I had lunch sort of at breakfast time, and then I had
lunch again, and then just a few Power Bars, that was about it.  
 
Q. How do you fill your time when you have that wait?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: You kind of find a table to lie down on and just try to sleep a little
bit, just try to relax. It's not always the easiest thing to deal with, but that's outdoor
tennis for you, something you have to get used to.  
 
Q. Was it the conditions? You looked a bit tentative on a lot of your shots, not
putting away a lot of volleys?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I think it's really tough because the ball is moving a lot with the
wind. It's tough just to crack the volleys away for a clean winner off the first shot. I
thought I volleyed and moved pretty well at the net today. I thought my reactions were
good. I made a lot of good pickups, made him have to come up with the passing shots and
had quite a few easy service games until that one at 4-5 in the second set.  
 
Q. That's five in a row now. 
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, he beat me in Davis Cup in Kiev.  
 
Q. But not since then. 
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: On every other surface I've been pretty fortunate. 
 
Q. Talking of which, a lot of people actually are puzzled as to why there's any delay
in your sort of announcing your commitment to the cause. 
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I'm going to make comment in the future. I'm just going to concentrate
on tennis this week. After this week's done, then I'm going to talk about it in the
future. At this week, I'm just concentrating on my tennis for this week.  
 
Q. What about your next opponent?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: My next opponent is going to be a tough match. I think I played Byron
once, last time I think was in Beijing. I beat him pretty handily, and played very, very
well. But Byron has been playing really well. He lost in three sets to Sampras, he beat
Younes, who has been playing some of the best tennis of anybody this year. It's going to
be one where he's going to return really well, take the ball on the rise, one I'm looking
forward to and trying to get through. 
 
Q. Is it more his consistency than having great shots?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I think he's physically strong, he's really there from the first ball to
the last ball. You have to go out and beat him; he won't beat himself. He's beaten some
good players. I mean, he beat Hewitt. He's only one of two players to do that this year.
To lose to Sampras in three tight sets. He's physically strong for a small player, someone
you have to stretch and mix up so he gets one hand off the racquet and have him moving
around quite a bit. If I go out there and play the way I know I can, I should have a good
opportunity to get through. 
 
Q. How tough a place is this for you as it's notoriously windy? As a guy that relies on
his serve, the ball toss can get pushed all over the place. Is it difficult?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I think it's a challenge. It's not always the person who plays the
prettiest tennis or the best tennis here that ends up wining this week. It's the person
who perseveres and manages to hang in there and do what they have to out there. If I can
do that, then I think I have a good chance to progress and do better than I have here in
the past. If I win my match against Black, then I'll be in the fourth round, which will be
nice, and a chance for another great player. The bottom section is tremendous. You have
Moya, Sampras. You have the new Swedish player, I cannot pronounce his name, seems to be
winning a lot. You have Safin. It's a very, very tough tournament.  
 
Q. But do you modify your game when you come in, "I know it's going to be gusting,
blowing around"? 
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I think you've got to get more compact. If you look at the players who
do well here, it's the players who are compact, take the ball early, don't have too much
back swing, players like that who can handle the windy conditions. If you look at a player
like Byron Black, he's very compact, takes the ball early. Andre Agassi is very compact.
Grosjean, who moves well, has early preparation. You need to be quick, good footwork, and
pretty solid.  
 
Q. Richard Krajicek won it last year. 
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: He's got a pretty big serve, pretty solid from the ground as well. I
think he's a little bit underrated for his ground game. He made the semis of the French.
He's won Barcelona. He's not a bad player. Anyone who wins that small tournament called
Wimbledon, as well. 
 
Q. Was it the conditions that actually caused you to get so upset in that tenth game?
Were you just really frustrated that you couldn't do what you wanted to do in the
conditions?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I was a little bit mad I missed a backhand passing shot. That was the
only thing really. I think the conditions are the same for both of us. I knew I had a
tough match today. Medvedev I think is one of the best players in the wind on the tour by
far. The French Open finals, he was up two sets to Love, and the weather was horrific.
Then all of a sudden the weather got nice and Andre ended up wining in five, the other
Andre. He's very difficult to play in these conditions. 
 
Q. After Indian Wells, you said you had three things to work on in your game. 
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I rate two of them pretty good. You could probably guess the third one
which I wasn't too happy about today (laughter).  
 
Q. We worked that out. 
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Wasn't too tough. The third one is being practiced tomorrow before my
match with Byron Black.  
 
Q. Weather conditions can change here. Any preference on day or night play?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I don't really mind. As long as I win, I don't really care what time I
play. It's the same for all the other players. The nice thing is we have longer breaks,
there's more days off. Example, if I can win on Sunday, then I can get a day off and play
a Tuesday, which is quite nice, having it as a ten-day event. 
 
Q. Did the long wait to play make you think that you'd get out of the heat? Was that
going to be of benefit to you?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I don't mind. I think I'm handling the heat better. I don't think the
heat affected me in Indian Wells. I don't think the heat's going to affect me here this
week in Key Biscayne. I feel in good shape in that respect. I just don't feel like my
tennis is there a hundred percent, and I can still get better in all aspects. I'm feeling
physically pretty good. I'm not minding the heat as much as I did in the past.  
 
Q. Now you're a mature man of 26, a married man to boot. Does winning and losing have
the same impact on you that it did when you were 20, 21?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, I think it does. I think I was very motivated to win that match
today. I think I was fired up. I didn't want to lose today. It's getting that back when
you have such a long layoff. I think it's coming. That's what you need in outdoor
tournaments. I'm building towards the Slams. I have nine titles. I want to get my tenth
title. I still have goals and things I want to accomplish. I don't think becoming married
and becoming an elderly statesman at 26 is going to change that in me. I think once you
lose that, it's very tough to come out here and compete day in, day out, stay at the top
of the game. If I want to stay at the top of the game and win tournaments, then I have to
have that hunger. 
 
Q. What is an elderly statesman now? Is it somebody like Agassi who is looking squarely
at 30? Is it older than that?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, No. I wouldn't say that. I think Andre -- depends how you are
physically. Andre has been very blessed that he's in fantastic physical shape. His body
holds up on him. I mean, Sampras right now might be having a few nicks and nacks, trying
to get his fitness back to where it was. I think it just depends on what body type you are
and how you are. 
 
Q. A few of the comments you made suggest you are not really looking at a career beyond
the age of 30. 
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I'm hoping to get to 30. I don't want to be playing, traveling around
the world sitting at 60, 70 in the world just playing for the sake of it. I want to try to
be playing where I can win tournaments and going out there and have a chance to win Slams.
You know, when you get to a certain level, you just want to stay there.  
 
Q. Already have any ideas of what you want to do after that?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I'm going to take John Parsons' job at The Telegraph. I don't honestly
know what I'm going to do, to be honest with you. I haven't thought about it. I have a few
more years to think about it. Right now what I'm really concentrating is to do well at the
Majors, try to win a major. For me, I think that's one of the things that I'd love to do
before my career is done. If I don't do it, at least I can say I gave it the best chance I
possibly could.  
 
Q. Does that mean you probably are even more motivated than you were when you came out
of your teens?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, I think I am. When you're coming out of your teens, you're not
expecting as much, you're just trying to fight your way into the tour. I think I made my
big breakthrough when I got to the US Open final in '97. Then I've had injuries here and
there, things I've had to deal with. Now I really want to try to step it up where I can
compete at the Slams. I need to keep on improving if I'm going to have a chance to win. I
think the tennis I'm playing right now, I wouldn't be able to win a Slam. I need to keep
on getting better, working harder, doing more things. 
 
Q. That means you make sacrifices in your private life? Lucy doesn't travel with you
that much, like some wives or girlfriends. You're prepared to put up with the separations?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I think we try to see each other as much as possible. We both have our
things we want to do. We're both young. We've been together for eight years. I think we
both have a great relationship and understand what each one of us needs.  
 
Q. Back to '97 when you got to the final at the US Open, that must have given you the
feeling, "I'm in a final here, maybe a Wimbledon final." Have you been
disappointed really since that you haven't quite reached that again?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, I think '98 was a strange year because I had a chance to play
really well at Wimbledon. I think my preparations were good. Then I twisted my ankle. Then
I was struggling again at the US Open. Then '99, I played well at the French, got to the
fourth round, had a toe problem. Then I played through Wimbledon, stayed out six weeks.
Then at the end of the year, I think the key for me is trying to have a sustained period
why I do not have any injuries. I think I've played solid, but I haven't reached the
heights of '97, there's no question about that. But hopefully the best is still to come.  
 
Q. What would you give your marks out of 10 for your serve at the moment?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Probably about six and a half, seven. 
 
Q. When were you serving 10 out of 10?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I think at the end of last year I was serving extremely well in October
from Grand Slam Cup all the way till Stuttgart. I think I served very well.  
 
Q. How about Indian Wells two years ago?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Indian Wells in '97, I had a very, very good year serving, and with the
beginning of '98. It's getting things together. If I can do that, I have a great chance.
Because Wimbledon, the US Open are really my two big chances I think at a Slam. 
 
Q. What do you think has happened to it? What has gone wrong?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I think it's just practicing, getting used to it. I think today is a
tough day to really have a fair assessment of it, to be honest with you. I think sometimes
I'm just taking myself off balance in the beginning. That's why you saw me in the second
set, I barely bounced a ball. I must have served 70 or 80 percent and it was much better.
I think it's harder to hit aces as well because every year the balls get slower. These
courts, look at last week's results, that's one of the quickest tournaments of the year.
You have Corretja winning, Lapentti in the semis. Enqvist who is a baseliner, and
Philippoussis who is one of the strongest guys on the tour. 
 
Q. When you were off with the operation and the rehab afterwards, how long did you
actually go in between hitting serves? The last serve you hit was Bercy. 
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I probably went until three days before I played in Rotterdam. I hadn't
hit any serves for nearly three months.  
 
Q. A bit rusty. 
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: A bit rusty. I still got myself a few more months before the French Open
and Wimbledon, so that's all right. 
 
Q. Was it hitting serves that gave you that bad foot?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: No, I don't think it was that. It's just tennis. Just playing on the
hard courts. Just the pounding. I think it's coming along. It's getting better.  
 
Q. Is there a danger with something that becomes sort of as instinctive and rhythmic as
a serve that you could find yourself thinking too much about it while you're doing it? Is
that a problem?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, I just expect it to be there. It's like, I don't know, you step in
your car, you drive, you don't really think about it. That's what is happening.
Unfortunately, my gear shift is kind of crackling around a little bit. I kind of need to
get a little bit of a repair, hopefully get smooth again. 
 
Q. Switch to an automatic. 
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I need to get an automatic again. That would be nice (laughter). 
 
Q. Do you know what you're doing?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I'm tossing a little too far in front, my toss isn't consistent. My
body, I'm starting a little bit up-and-down throwing myself off balance. When I'm in
balance, taking my time and smooth, it's pretty effective. Until I got to about 4-5 when
he had a few set points, that second set I lost maybe one or two points on serve. The
serving was fairly good, considering how windy the conditions were. 
 
Q. That was a pretty cute bit of promotional marketing on the part of Free Serve to get
that label on your left arm. That was deliberate, wasn't it?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, it's a nice arrangement with me to be with Free Serve, the largest
Internet company in the UK. It's free serve, so I need to get their free serve and get
some free points from it. That would be great.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT