TMS - INDIAN WELLS
March 15, 2000
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MIKI SINGH: Questions for Greg. 

Q. He played very well, but it must have been a bit disappointing, you never seemed to
quite get into it somehow. 

GREG RUSEDSKI: No. I think I played really two bad service games where I got broken,
hit three double-faults. On the breakpoint, I hit a double-fault. It's not like making him
play to give him the first break. That really doesn't help. In the second set, I think he
hit an unbelievable first point return, then I came in and misjudged the ball a little
bit, hit an easy half volley into the net, hit another double-fault. You just can't play
two games like that when the guy is serving that well. I mean, the first set, I think he
served as well as anybody could possibly serve against me. You know, that one break really
cost me. Then in the second set, I had I think Love-30 two or three times, then I had
15-40. One forehand I should have gone cross-court; hit it up the line. The Love-30
points, I have to work on taking advantage of coming over a few and taking a little bit
more risk. I wasn't really pressured on any service games except for the two bad ones I
played. It's disappointing because it was a great opportunity. The draw had opened up with
Agassi losing. To lose a match like that is tough. But he played well. The strategy was to
get a lot of first serves in, hit the first volley to my backhand, I didn't make enough
backhand passing shots. That's the area I need to work on for the Lipton, keep working on
the serve and the backhand passing shot. In practice I'm hitting it well. Three areas
actually, return of serve at Love-30, taking more risk. If I clean up those three areas,
then I'll be able to play a lot better next week. 

Q. A lot of work to do, three areas?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, three areas can be quickly taken care of. I mean, I thought I
served pretty well in my first match. I was pleased with that. I didn't hit as many
double-faults in any key points. You know, that's just tennis. You've got to keep working
on your game and doing those things. 

Q. Was there a particular difficulty playing against him that you hadn't expected?

GREG RUSEDSKI: I never played against him. I think it took me a while to get into
reading his serve. In the second set, I read it pretty well; just didn't take the
opportunities. You know, it's just very disappointing. 

Q. What are your plans for the next few days then in the run up to Miami?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Just going to take a day off tomorrow, relax, then get to work on those
three areas I just discussed. I look forward to that. I mean, this is a great opportunity
given up. It frustrates me to lose a match like this because you don't get draws that open
up like this too much. With Arazi and Dosedel in the next round, anything can happen here.
It's reasonably quick, it's good for my game. To go out that early is obviously a
disappointment. 

Q. Will you stay here or go to Florida where it might not be quite so hot?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Well, I don't think the heat had anything to do with it today, to be
honest with you. I don't think the heat troubled me at all. It was just putting my game
together. It's disappointing when you don't. You don't mind if someone goes out and they
really beat you on the court. But when you know you've done a lot of things that you
should do out there, then that's tough. That's a tough way to lose. 

Q. So are you staying here to practice or on to Miami?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Probably go on to Miami sooner than later to get used to it. It's a bit
more humid there, probably a little bit slower, the ball through the air. It will be
different conditions to here. 

Q. I suppose it's the first setback really since the comeback. Your other three defeats
have been Kafelnikov, Sampras --?

GREG RUSEDSKI: Obviously it is. It is a tough one to lose, one you don't want to lose.
I've never played him before. I just didn't do a good enough job out there. You know, I
think it's still building up in the process. I've only been back -- this is my second
month back. You know, there's no excuse for losing a match like that. 

Q. Unless have you something else to say?

GREG RUSEDSKI: No, I have nothing to say.

Q. Any moment when you might have a comment? Tim has commented. 

GREG RUSEDSKI: I have no comment.

Q. Seems to muddy the waters further as to what your intentions are. 

GREG RUSEDSKI: I don't have an answer to that. I'm available that week. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT