TMS - INDIAN WELLS
March 13, 2000
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MIKI SINGH: Questions for Greg.  
 
Q. I have to ask the question: Are you available for the next tie?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: No comment. 
 
Q. Why no comment?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: (No response.) 
 
Q. It's obviously an important issue, not through any fault of yours, Greg. At home,
nobody knows, a mystery develops. It's a straightforward issue.
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: (No response.) 
 
Q. I have to write all this. 
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: You can. Fine, you can write. I said, "No comment." It's as
simple as that. 
 
Q. An extraordinary first set. 
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: It was a good match today. I thought he played well the first seven
games. Got myself down 15-40 twice, and love-40, but came up with the good serves when I
needed them. I was pleased with the way I played and managed to raise my game. I think
after I won the first set, I think I really had good control of the match today. 
 
Q. Did you know anything about him before you played him?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I just spoke to Alex Corretja about him because he played him last week.
He told me at the beginning of the match he plays very, very well, can be very flashy. I
think in the beginning he played really well for the first seven games. Once I took
control, I could see his body language go down a little bit, and really took advantage of
that.  
 
Q. Do you think this desert environment with the very thin air gives an advantage to
big servers like yourself?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: No, I don't think as much as it used to in the past, to be honest with
you. I think they've slowed down the balls again this year, they're a lot more fluffier. I
think the courts are a lot slower and stickier. I think that, you know, it's not as much
of an advantage as it used to be because of the court surface and the balls being changed.
So I think basically the favorite for this week would be someone like Andre Agassi, even
though they say the altitude and the air. But I think things have been slowed down quite a
bit, even compared to last year already.  
 
Q. You may have him in the third round possibly.
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: He has to get to the third round and I have to get to the third round.
We can't discuss that one yet because neither one of us are there, unfortunately.  
 
Q. How are you physically?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, I feel very well. I think it's just getting my tennis together a
little bit. You know, what I was pleased with today, when I needed my big serves, they
were there for me today. Now it's bringing them out right from the beginning instead of
getting in those position were I'm down 15-40 or Love-40. So I think that's what I need to
improve in my game, is just starting off a little bit better. But, I mean, I look at the
three losses I've had this year, twice to Kafelnikov, once to Sampras. So I'm losing to
the top guys, the No. 2 players in the world. It's not too bad. I think if I'm going to
beat them, I really have to start better from the top with my service games, just bring my
notch up another level. But so far, so good. 
 
Q. Serve problems coming from the foot injury or the layoff?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I haven't served for three months. I hadn't practiced before the
tournament in Rotterdam started. Three days before I started serving. It's quite difficult
to just come in right away and just be there right away when you haven't served for about
three months. So I think it's just practice upon practice upon practice. It will be back. 
 
Q. And even longer not playing out-of-doors?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: No, I haven't played much outdoors. I got a tricky first round in my
first match outdoors. In cold weather, to play Sampras, who obviously was very hungry to
play, wanted to get a few matches before here. You know, this is definitely a good start
for me so far. 
 
Q. That's what you've been working on, serves, just hitting serves since you got here
from Scottsdale?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I've been hitting a lot of serves. I was pleased with the way I was on
the breakpoints. You know, 15-40, Love-40, I really brought it up. But I just want to
start those from the beginning, as I was saying before, instead of getting in those
positions, maybe be up 40-Love or 40-15 to make life easier. Against a player like that, I
can get away with that. Against the Top-10 players, players like Sampras, Kafelnikov,
Agassi, they'll punish me for that. 
 
Q. When you were playing Sampras, did you get any indication that he was impaired?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I thought his back was bothering him a little bit. 
 
Q. How could you tell?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Just by the way he was moving on the court. But I think he still played
very well that night. It was a very, very cold night. I think I saw him pull up a little
bit in the second set, but I heard he had some extracurricular activity the next day
besides tennis that hurt his back, so.  
 
Q. On the golf course?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Could be (laughter).  
 
Q. Are you talking about something scandalous?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: No, nothing scandalous there. I'm talking about a different sport.  
 
Q. Were you overall satisfied today with the performance?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: Yeah, I think it's always tough to play a first round match here, new
facility, new courts, an opponent I don't really know that well. To come out and win 6-2,
6-Love in about an hour, I can't ask for more. It's a nice start. 
 
Q. Did you find the courts to be playing fast or slow?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I think they were slower. They're slower than the practice courts, I
think, the stadium courts. It's only normal with a new facility usually to have that. I
think the balls really fluff up very, very big. I think there's such a difference between
when you go from old balls to new balls, it's like night and day just because of the way
they play.  
 
Q. What was the problem with those foot faults?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I don't know. The line judge didn't like me, I guess (laughter). I
didn't think I hit the foot faults on those because I had one crew that called me on three
foot faults, twice at 15-30, which were convenient times. Then the next crew came in and I
didn't get any foot faults. I don't understand it. I asked Sven if I was foot faulting.
From the one that got called on my side, he didn't think I was foot faulting. I don't
know. These things do happen. 
 
Q. When you are foot faulted occasionally, is it usually the back foot, as today, or on
the front foot?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I don't have a clue. Sometimes they tell me it's my front, sometimes
they tell me it's my back foot, so I can't figure out which one it is. 
 
Q. What would you consider to be a good week for you here?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: A good week for me? Well, obviously I think every player that comes here
wants to win the tournament. You know, speaking to Edberg a little bit in London, he
always says a good week is getting to the semi. It would be nice to get there, but just
take it one match at a time. It depends who I'm playing, as well. This year I've beaten
players I was supposed to beat, but I haven't beaten the players that are above me yet. So
I think, you know, I'd like to try to do that as well, keep the consistency, beating the
players I should, and try to get those bigger wins against the higher-ranked players. 
 
Q. Do you think Andre's loss last week shows he's beatable?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I think Andre just wanted to get here. I think with all the bad weather
they had in Scottsdale, with the temperature being so cold, he would have had to play
Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday. If he would have won that event, there's no
bonus points, so he couldn't have made anywhere near the amount of points as here. It's
three times the amount of points this week. I don't know if you should qualify that as a
barometer for him. When he wants to win something, he's been pretty impressive the last
year. 
 
Q. So you're saying tanking still exists on the men's tour?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: I'm not saying that. You can say whatever you like to call it
(laughter).  
 
Q. After the next round, which looks fairly straightforward on paper anyway, you would
possibly face Andre. Have you thought about that or is it strictly one match at a time?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: One match at a time. Max Mirnyi or Taylor Dent, I think Max Mirnyi will
probably win that match. He's played very well this year and last year, really improved,
got a good serve, good ground game. He's playing some tough tennis. In these conditions,
if he serves well, it's going to be a very good match. I can't say that I'm going to be
there yet.  
 
Q. Don't want to talk about Andre yet?
 
 GREG RUSEDSKI: No, not until after the next match, one way or the other.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT