EUROCARD OPEN
October 30, 1999
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ATP:  Questions, please.  
 

Q. He played an extremely good match.  Was there anything you could have done differently?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I think the first set was really key in the match today.  I think I was struggling a little bit from the after-effects of yesterday's match.  We both played one poor service game each.  That love-30 point, I should have made him play the return on the second.  When I had my breakpoint, I made him play.  He came up with the volley.  When he had his one break opportunity, he hit a backhand cross-court off a good first serve.  That was really the story of the first set.  The second set, he played better and started jamming me up, changing things up really well.  I just wasn't sharp enough.  When you're playing a Top 10 player, whether it's Todd Martin or whether it's a Richard Krajicek, you have to be at a hundred percent form and feeling a hundred percent well or you're going to really struggle, especially against a guy who plays this well at this event every single year.  I think he's won it two times already. 
 

Q. Was the problem a bit of mental tiredness rather than physical?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I don't think it was really mental.  These courts are very punishing to the body, they're very tough.  A lot of players, as you can see from Kiefer to Martin to a lot of guys, when they're getting on the courts, they're really tough on the body.  So I don't think it was really mental tiredness.  I think it was just a tough, tough match the day before.  Against Krajicek, if you're not that little bit extra, he'll take advantage.  He played very well. 
 

Q. A bit of emotional fatigue, perhaps?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  No, I don't think it was emotional.  I don't think it was mental.  I don't think it was any of the above categories.  I just say Richard played better than me today, and I just couldn't lift that extra level. 
 

Q. At what stage did you feel yesterday's match clicking in?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I think a little bit this morning.  I think it was just one of those matches where I needed a little bit extra movement, and I just didn't have it today.  
 

Q. The high forehand volley, was that one of those nasty floaters that hung there?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah, it was one of those.  But it's one you have to make.  That's my one bad game, and he took advantage of it.  His one bad game, he made his high floater; I didn't make mine.  That was the story of the first set.  
 

Q. You're off to Paris when?  Tomorrow maybe? 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I'm hoping to get as late a start as I possibly can.  I'm hoping to start on Wednesday.  I put in my request.  I'm going to get a bit of work done on myself and get ready for the next week. 
 

Q. Are you really not that bothered about qualifying for Hannover, as you gave the impression yesterday?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I don't care if I make Hannover.  It doesn't mean much to me this year.  My goal is to get ready for the Grand Slams for next year.  I mean, Hannover, if I don't make it, it's not the end of the world for me.  If someone told me I'd be 10 in the world, I'd say, "Fine, that's good.  Let's get ready for next year."  
 

Q. Will you be surprised if Richard doesn't make it?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  That's a good question.  I think tomorrow is going to determine a lot for Richard.  I don't think Richard is going to play Stockholm or Moscow.  If he comes out and wins the title tomorrow, it will probably be Agassi or Enqvist, which is obviously a very difficult match, I think he'll make the World Championships this year.  I think he's playing great tennis, and he's had a few losses where he should have won matches in the indoor season, but always seems to come right about this time for him.  
 

Q. After you get married, how much time do you expect to be preparing for the new year?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, let me think.  I'm going to have a millennium party (laughter).  I don't really know, to be honest with you.  I really haven't thought about it yet.  I'm really focusing on these two weeks here.  I'm going to have a nice break and I'm going to gradually get into it and get ready.  But I'll have enough preparation and enough time.  I'll have probably between two and three weeks of good physical training and good tennis to be really fresh. 
 

Q. Sydney is the start?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Probably Sydney.  Sydney or Auckland.  I haven't decided on which one yet.  
 

Q. Will you go down to Australia considerably earlier to acclimatize to the heat?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I'm probably going to get there around maybe the 3rd or 4th, around that time.  That still gives me an extra week before the Slam.  Give me about ten days' preparation to get used to the heat and get ready for the outdoor event. 
 

Q. For those of us that have to book our travel around you, when will you make that decision about Sydney or Auckland?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Where is Tim going?  Does anybody know?  
 

Q. Tim is playing Adelaide and not playing the week before. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I don't know (laughter).  When I know, I'll let you know.  
 

Q. That's very kind, thank you. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I'll try to figure it out (laughter).  But I think it will probably be Sydney.  How is that?  Is that better?  
 

Q. It is, because I already made my booking. 
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  Perfect.  John Parsons is going there, then I can't miss it, can I?  
 

Q. If you look back on this year, are you satisfied?
 
GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think this year has been a very difficult year for me.  I think the injury in the summer really hurt.  I think I've been pretty consistent this year.  I think the last few months, the last two months, have been excellent.  I think, you know, it's hard to come back every year and have to defend your points always at the end of the year.  Slam-wise every match that I lost, apart from maybe the Australian Open, I really had a chance to win.  I mean, against Filippini in the fourth round, Philippoussis in the fourth round, Martin in the fourth round.  I think in the Slams, which are becoming the most important thing to me right now, I think I'm getting better, I'm improving.  I think my tennis is starting to get consistent.  Any one of those fourth rounds I could have easily been into the fourth round or further in a major.  I think it's been solid, but not as good as I'd like.  I'm making amends for it in the last part of the season, hopefully.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT