EUROCARD OPEN
October 29, 1999
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ATP:  Ladies and Gentlemen, Greg goes through to the semifinals where he'll play either Richard Krajicek or Mariano Zabaleta.  He improves his chances on the race to Hannover. 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Who cares (laughter)?


Q. You seem to be more delighted winning that than --?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think it was one of those matches where I lost a tough match to him in the US Open.  It was a little bit similar circumstances, except this time he was the one who had match point.  When he had match point, he gave me a nice little pump there, which I wasn't too pleased with.  I gave him one back and managed to take that tiebreaker.  I thought the standard of tennis for two sets was great.  He had one breakpoint; he took it.  He was hitting the ball very well.  I was trying to do a little bit too much on my serve for a set and a half, and then got my rhythm going.  The early break in the third set, then Love-40, missed a backhand; hit it really well.  You know, to come through when the pressure counted, down I think three or four breakpoints, to finish off that match was extremely satisfying. 


Q. Do you have any idea how you made those three forehand volleys in a row?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I've been practicing those (laughter).  You know, the volleys looked good.  In the beginning, I wasn't moving my feet enough on a few volleys.  I wasn't attacking the return enough.  But apart from that, I mean, I've got to be very, very pleased.  I mean, Todd I thought returned exceptionally well and played a very good match.  If I would have lost that match, I still would have said I played really well.  It's a great feeling to come out and win that sort of match after the match at the US Open.


Q. There was one tough service game towards the end, did you feel the pressure then?  Three breakpoints?

GREG RUSEDSKI:   I made him hit two aces.  One, I had to come up with a good three reflex volleys, a good half volley.  I think I deserved it because I really played those points well.  It wasn't he losing the points; it was myself winning it.  That was extremely satisfying.  You know there's going to be one game where he's going to come through and break through on those returns.  It would have been nice to get the second break when I had Love-40, but it makes it even more satisfying having only one break and being able to hold on and to finish it. 


Q. You both looked very tense at the start.  Is that a fair comment or not?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think we were a little bit tense.  I think it's a fair comment because of the match at The Open.  I think there's a little bit of pressure on him because he hasn't been having the best of indoor seasons yet.  I think he played two exceptional matches here.  His standard is better than the last few weeks.  For both of us, this meant a lot:  for him, the win for Hannover; for me, the pride of the US Open.  He started off better than myself.  He was serving well.  He was the better player for about a set and a half.  I managed to turn it around a bit.


Q. Was it the adrenaline of saving those match points that got you through to the break immediately at the start of the third?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I felt in the tiebreaker I was playing really well.  Hit the top of the net twice and could have been up a mini-break instead of down two match points.  I think once I got back on serve and I won that tiebreaker, I think that was really the big key in the match because he didn't have any breakpoints until the second to the last service game on me.  I think that was definitely the key, because I could feel him drop a little bit and I managed to take advantage of it. 


Q. That third game in the final set, Love-40, two breaks up. 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  That would have been nice.  I would have been really pleased if that backhand went in.  I think I played a very good game.  Todd just came up with the goods.  I hit a good return and backhand passing; missed wide.  But I struck it really well; it was by him.  The next point he hits a good serve.  The one after that I make him play another volley.  Unfortunately he's 6'6".  Trying to get a lob over his head some days is quite difficult.  He was at full stretch to make the overhead.  He just played a good game.  That's why he's right now No.  4 in the world.  When he's down Love-40 or he's down in a match, he can find a way to pull it out.  He's been doing that most of the year. 


Q. Did he say anything to you?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  He just said, "Well played, well done."  He said it was a really good standard match, the quality was very high.  Just too good. 


Q. To come back after a pretty disappointing first set, because nothing seemed to be going for you, the breaks which were there were slipping away?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Three games at 30-All in the set, I missed one forehand passing shot.  I missed a few forehands in the rallies.  I was having opportunities, but just not creating them.  Todd was the better player.  You know, I just managed to stay positive and take my chances.  If you stay positive and manage to take your chances, anything can happen, as we saw today.


Q. The game in which you were broken, that let ace, two in one game?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I had two in one game.  I think I was playing with fire a little bit there.  I was tossing my ball up and going for too much on my serve.  Against Todd, if you go for too much, because he's such a good returner, you don't get the serves in, he really punishes you.  He was creating more opportunities and I was playing a little bit with fire.


Q. You said the fact that Todd tried to pump himself, shouted "Come on," does that get under your skin or does that fire you even more?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think it helped me.  I think it fired me up.  It really kept my concentration.  It kept me positive because when he had match point at 6-4, I had a second serve and chipped and charged and made him try to beat me.  I hit the ball pretty well.  It got me fired up to win that tiebreaker; got my focus a little bit better out there. 


Q. Assuming you play Krajicek, you have a 5-3 record; he won the last two indoors.  Does that account for anything?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think Richard is the defending champion here.  He's played exceptionally well.  He says he is not playing that well.  I watched his two matches.  I wouldn't mind playing that badly as him (laughter).  No, I think it comes down to tiebreakers and who is going to win the big points.  The last two matches, he's won the big points, and that's why he deserves to win.  I'm feeling confident and looking forward to another good match.  He's one of the best players in the world, so for either one of us it's going to be a tough match. 


Q. What do you know about Zabaleta?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  He's having a magical run.  He's beaten Spadea, 19 in the world; Kafelnikov, 2; Norman, 18.  I mean, he's just swinging from the hip and everything seems to be going in.  He's having a lot of fun out there.  It will be a tough match if he wins, but I kind of think Richard will win that one. 


Q. How would you describe yourself as a tennis player?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Very bad.  I need to work on everything.  I mean, my serve is really slow, my backhand is magical.  I have the best backhand cross-court passing shot, so powerful.  That's my game (laughter). 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT