COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
October 3, 1999
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ITF:  Questions for Greg. 


Q.  Apart from one little tremor, it was pretty good; wasn't it?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I was really pleased with the way I played today.  I thought the first two sets I couldn't have played any better.  In the third set I dipped a little bit.  Tomorrow really raised his game and came up with a great tiebreaker.  In the third set, fourth set, I really started dominating, had one match point on an approach, he hit a good backhand passing shot.  When I served for the match, did exactly what I did at the US Open, where I rushed a  little bit, took a bit of speed off my serve.  Tommy is a good enough player that he can come up with the great shots and break.  I said to myself, "What did you do again?"  This time I learned from that lesson, took my time when it counted in the fourth set breaker and managed to win the match. 

Q.  Did the name Todd Martin cross your mind at all?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, it did for a fraction of a second there.  I said, "I don't want to have that happen to me again."  Please don't mention that name after this week.  I already asked Barry to stop doing that. 

Q.  I'll mention money instead.  Does it strike you how much money you won by winning one tennis match?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I really don't look at it that way.  I mean, it's great.  I mean, I was more pleased with winning the title.  I don't think throughout the match I ever said, "Gee, if I win this match, I'm going to get $1.3 million," whatever it is.  It doesn't go through my head.  I'm there to win a title, beat the best Grand Slam players in the year.  For me the money is a nice thing, but the title is more important.

Q.  Through this week, in the matches you've played, you played guys who are renowned for their groundstrokes.  For most of the match today, Tommy played some beautiful backhands.  As in the previous matches here, you've managed rally with these fellows, long, long rallies, not always winning the point, but plenty of running in.  You must be pleased with that. 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I am.  That's part of myself getting fit again and being able to move, being able to be around the court and playing my game.  The more healthy I am, I can stay with these players from the back to work to approach and come to the net.  That's a key for me:  if I can get to the net, I have a chance.  If they pass me a hundred times, they win.  If they don't, I usually end up winning. 

Q.  Were you conscious, as we obviously were watching, that the crowd were dying to get into it, to see Tommy ahead so they could cheer him on to victory rather than reviving his game?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Definitely.  I think if I would have lost that fourth set, it would have been pretty loud out there.  The first two sets I kept it pretty quiet by really dominating on my service games, dominating on most of the rallies.  I mean, the thing which is good, even though I lost that tiebreaker in the third set, I was always ahead by one game, which was really a help for that match, especially for the tiebreaker. 

Q.  Life as we all know is about taking your opportunities.  You've done it admirably this week.  Next time you see Tim or any of the other guys that decided they weren't going to play here this week, what will you say to them?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I mean, that's their choice.  I'm happy they didn't come.  I mean, it's like the year Agassi pulled out and his coach, Brad Gilbert, got all the way to the finals.  I don't know if he sent him a thank you card. 

Q.  Was there any apprehension when he came up with another winner on the first point of that last tiebreak?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Not really.  I said to myself, I didn't really hit that serve hard enough, I wasn't aggressive enough.  The next service point I played, I really went for my serve, really attacked it.  If I was going to lose it, I was going to lose it with better tennis.  Those are points I'm learning from, getting that confidence back again. 

Q.  How does the satisfaction of this compare to Bercy last year?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, the satisfaction is, it's just a great feeling to be able to say I've won one of the most prestigious indoor events of the game.  It gives me a great high and a great feeling.  To come out  - I hadn't been playing as well as I'd like this year  - to come out and win this tournament gives me great satisfaction.  It's the best players in the world from Round  1 all the way to the finals.  For me, it's something I can remember and show my kids when I get older and I've stopped the game.

Q.  It has been a tricky year, hasn't it?  It started off very disappointingly because probably you overtrained in the off-season. 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I had a few injuries which I didn't sort out properly.  I've had a few specialists and a few doctors sort them out now.  I'm feeling a lot fitter and better.  I'm really excited about the year 2000, playing some good tennis. 

Q.  Will the new year resolution be just to keep fit all the time?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think with the new Tour and new ranking system we're getting, you have to be fit.  If you're injured, you get zero pointers.  That's the New Year's resolution, to get fit and win a major.

Q.  Have you started already?  You were talking yesterday about the importance  --?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I'm working right now to make sure I'm fit for next year.  I'm working right now to win a Slam next year.  I'm not even thinking about this year so much.  I'm trying to play good tennis, but what's more important for me is next season already because all the Slams are done for the rest of the year.  It's nice to play well in Stuttgart and Paris, all those indoor events, but what's important to me is trying to win a Grand Slam. 

Q.  I was just wondering whether you were going to reassess your schedule from now?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  The maximum events I'm playing is 23 next year, that's maximum.

Q.  As opposed to what?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I played between 25 to 28.  So the maximum, maximum is 23, maybe even less, next year.

Q.  That includes the --?

GREG RUSEDSKI: --  super 9's, 13 events, maybe ten more maximum.

Q.  How close do you think you got in this week to playing as did you in Bercy last year?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think I was pretty close.  I think the thing which I was really pleased about, every time I needed to raise my game, I managed to raise my game.  I think that was the key.  I don't think I played as well as I did on that day against Sampras when I beat him in three straight sets.  Some of the tennis I played, when it counted, was the best I've played in ages. 

Q.  Obviously the check will come in the bank, but is there anything that maybe yourself and Lucy promised you might treat yourself to if you won this prize?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  We haven't even discussed that.  I'm happy to get a trophy, to be honest with you, so I can put it on my mantelpiece.  Look at the names, Rios, Ivanisevic, Sampras.  I have great players on the trophy that have won it.  For me, we haven't really discussed it.  We've had other things on our mind.  The money comes in nice, but it's not the most important thing. 

Q.  There's a possibility, maybe a slight one, that you may be the last winner.  This event may not continue. 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I'm going to speak to Compaq and tell them what a great job they're doing and to bring it back next year. 

Q.  Talking about Tommy, as you said on court he's a player that has now come of age.  He appeared to us, the backhand pass down the line is one of the great shots of tennis at the moment, isn't it?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think he's got one of the best backhands in the game right now.  He's gotten stronger.  His serve was gotten better.  All around he's improved a lot.  I think it's great for German tennis to have Haas and Kiefer coming up.  They had Becker, they had Graf, but now they have two guys that they can really look up to and stay in the Top 10 consistently if they both stay healthy and keep improving at the rate they are. 

Q.  Is it off to Basel tonight?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Tomorrow.  I'm going to leave tomorrow afternoon.  I'm going to enjoy myself a little bit. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT