COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
October 2, 1999
Greg Rusedski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ITF:  Questions for Greg. 


Q.  Big payday.  Good work.

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah.  I was really pleased the way I played today.  I thought I played better than yesterday.  I think that's the best I've seen Andrei play indoors on an indoor surface.  He was hitting the ball extremely well.  I really had to lift my game in that third set when I was down a break.  For me, it was a very satisfying win. 

Q.  5-Love after ten minutes, eight aces in three service games. 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think Andrei was a little bit sluggish, stiff from his match with Richard.  He's playing indoors.  The courts, the first match can be a little bit tough on the body.  I think he started off a little bit slow, but then really got things going. 

Q.  He said he tweaked his back in the warm-up.  Took him a set to get rid of it. 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  That's probably why I was up five nil in the beginning.  Once it settled down, seemed to relax.  With time, it seemed to really get better.  His movement really wasn't hampered.  I could see in the beginning when I went to his forehand side, he couldn't really move that well that way.  As the match went on, he started moving, he played really well.

Q.  You might not have been here actually, come here as a fourth reserve.  Pretty gratifying to be in the final?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I'm pretty happy all those players decided to pull out.  Worked out well for me.  Hopefully next year I'll make it in on my merit.  I'm happy to be there.  I thought I played reasonably consistent in the Slams.  I wasn't magical.  But three fourth rounds is usually good enough to get into this event.  For me, I'm satisfied to be here and playing well.

Q.  Did you see anything of the Haas match?  Have you followed his progress in the last year or so?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I think he's improved his serve a lot.  Last year I don't think that was that strong.  That was a major weakness which you could attack.  I think his ground game has gotten a lot more consistent.  He's added a little more variety with a little bit of slice on the backhand side.  I think he's done a good job this year.  He's gotten to the Top 10 for a week, I believe.  He's a much improved player.  I'm looking forward to another challenging match. 

Q.  A lot of people over the years have described this as an exhibition, without having any points, it's not as big a deal as it's been made out to be.  How excited do you feel about playing the final tomorrow, the first British representative we've had in the Grand Slam Cup final?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Well, I think it's great because as a tournament, I would like to win.  Becker won here, Stich won here, Sampras has won here, Ivanisevic.  You have great names, great champions that have won here, people who have been in major Slam finals, Grand Slam finalists have won here.  For me, I'd like to go out here and win this event, first title of the year.  Fair enough, no points involved, but it's the best players in the world.  For me, if I could win this, this would really give me a lot of confidence.

Q.  It's difficult to say that you don't take any notice of the amount of money because it is huge here.  In the moment of victory, does that register?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  No.  I think most of the guys that are in here playing, we have reasonable bank accounts.  I don't think we really worry about it.  I think we more want to win.  It's nice to get the paycheck, don't get me wrong.  I think we're more out there for the competition, wanting to win, wanting to win titles and matches.  It's a bonus.  It's just something they make because you do well in the Slams.  It's something that's there. 

Q.  Given a trade, would you rather hold Bercy or take Stuttgart or would you win this one?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  That's a tough one.  I think if it was a Slam, I'd say a Slam, no question.  I think this is important to me because I've already won a Super 9.  I think it's important because I've beaten two players in the Top  5 in the world.  It just gives me a lot of confidence.  Which event in the world do you have the best Grand Slam finishers? You can look back in time, fair enough, you can say there were no points, but you could look back and say, "I won the Grand Slam Cup.  There was Agassi in the event, Kafelnikov, Kuerten, all the best Grand Slam finishers."  You can say something that you can be proud of.

Q.  I know we're not allowed to mention anymore that tournament on the other side of the Atlantic. 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Every time I get on the court, they announce it.  For God's sakes (laughter).  7-5, 6-Love, 5-3.  Every time I'm warming up.  It's getting on my nerves.

Q.  Casting the mind back eight days to just before you walked on court to play in the Davis Cup, what is the difference in your confidence level then to now?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I think Davis Cup is a lot harder than playing for yourself, playing any tournament or any Grand Slam, because you're playing for your country.  There's a lot more pressure on you, especially in a tie like that, where you're expected to win.  It's a totally different atmosphere. 

Q.  I'm saying, how much has it gone up in that eight-day period?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Oh, I think it's gone up maybe about 50, 60%.  It's looking pretty good.  I was pleased with my last match I played when I played Stafford on the last day.  I think it really helped me.

Q.  German crowd tomorrow.  Is that a worry?  Something you're quite used to?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I'm quite used to it.  I'm sure they'll be loud, cheering for Tommy.  I wouldn't expect anything less.  As long as they're polite during the exchanges and rallies.

Q.  Lucy was here today.  Has she come over special?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  She's come down to see me, support me, give me encouragement.  At least I'll have two people clapping in the crowd for me.

Q.  Both you and Tim, everybody knows you're both getting married soon, there's been speculation that the dips in form you've had over the summer may be related to the fact that suddenly you're getting married, there's a difference between having a partner and then suddenly getting married.  Do you think that's affected you both at all?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  I don't think that's affected me at all.  I think what's affected me more this year has been the injuries I've picked up, not being healthy, trying to find out what the exact problems with the injuries are.  I think my body took a beating from '98.  Right now, I'm physically feeling strong.  I think getting married, changing my lifestyle really hasn't affected my tennis that much.  I think it's other areas, just my physical being with my body that's caused most of my difficulties. 

Q.  Is there anything in particular you can do to prevent the sort of injuries you've had?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  Yeah.  I've seen a few doctors, seen a lot of specialists.  They've told me I have to cut down on my tournaments, give myself longer rest periods, just be very productive, don't overplay.  I've been overplaying a little bit the last few years.  I've got to use my training weeks a little bit better, schedule things a little more properly.  I can't go out there gung-ho and play three, four hours a day, then expect to go in the gym and work out again.  My body just won't take that.  I have to be a little more intelligent in those respects. 

Q.  What about breaking your world record tomorrow?

GREG RUSEDSKI:  He can break my world record as long as I win. 

Q.  You did have a group of fans up there in the corner. 

GREG RUSEDSKI:  It's really nice because the Compaq is the official sponsor.  There's a lot of British people there, a lot of British flags, people supporting.  I think it's going to be tough against that crowd, but it's nice to have a few supporters out there. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT