DAVIS CUP - BELGIUM vs USA
July 16, 1998
Christophe Van Garsse
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RANDY WALKER:  We'll start with questions in English for the Belgian team.  Questions for the Belgian team. 
 

Q.  Filip, obviously you had a lot of success recently.  Talk about the disadvantages of getting here late, hard courts?  Is it better to be playing or have time on the hard courts?
 
FILIP DEWULF:  I didn't really have problems with jet lag; slept very well the last few days.  That wasn't a problem.  I think the days are lost because of my late arrival.  Last week I played a pretty good tournament.  I took off a lot of confidence.  I'm proud to be here.  So I think it will replace the days I lost. 
 

Q.  For Filip and Christophe, how much do you feel like underdogs in this tie?  Having come through the experience of defeating the Netherlands, has it made you all feel like rankings and whatnot don't matter when it comes to Davis Cup?
 
FILIP DEWULF:  I think, once again, we're really underdogs.  We almost have no chance of beating the United States.  But like we showed against the Dutch team, the tie  always have to be played.  I hope it will be the same scenario this time, so. 
 
CHRISTOPHE VAN GARSSE:  I don't know what to add. I'm sure we will fight like hell.  That's the only thing we can do for sure.  The rest we'll see tomorrow. 
 

Q.  For the captain, if you could just talk about how it went trying to find a doubles team for this week?  And also is Johan still hurting from the hamstring?
 
CAPTAIN KOEN GONNISEN:  Well, as you know, the doubles selection can be changed up to one hour before.  We still have till Saturday.  We'll see how it goes.  For sure, we have to play a new doubles team. They're very experienced.  Now the Federation has to choose.  And for the future, we will see. 
 

Q.  Have you played Courier or Agassi before?
 
FILIP DEWULF:  No. 
 

Q.  Describe their game.
 
FILIP DEWULF:  My game or their game?  Describe their game?  (Laughter)  They play pretty good.  They're perfect hard court players.  What else is there to say? 
 

Q.  Christophe, you were the hero for your team the last two rounds.  How much confidence has that given you, in particular here, in your game total, but particularly here in Davis Cup? 
 
CHRISTOPHE VAN GARSSE:  Until today, I'm still enjoying (laughter).  Maybe it's the last day, so.  I'm just enjoying it.  I mean, I did twice when I was in the tie.  I don't know what to say.  It was like a dream that came true like twice.  I'm enjoying it.  It was fun.  But now, I mean, the only experience, I think I have the confidence from all the team.  They trust me to do everything I can tomorrow.  That's for me really important. Even if I play Agassi, doesn't matter.  I have the confidence from the team.  That's what's really, really important for me. 
 

Q.  Filip, do you feel any more added pressure playing the first match of the tie as opposed to playing the second?  Any difference for you?
 
FILIP DEWULF:  No, I don't think it makes a difference.  I hope I can relax Christophe a little bit for the second match.  If I make a good result, it will relax him a little bit.  He will play more free and smile.  That will help his game a lot. 
 

Q.  Have you ever played doubles with Xavier?  What have you seen in practice this week?
 
FILIP DEWULF:  I never practiced with him this week, so. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT