ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
February 22, 2015
Samiulla Shenwari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Sami, how close and how disappointing was it to find the end result that you finish on the losing side?SAMIULLA SHENWARI: It was very disappointing because we catch the match early in the wickets of Sri Lanka, and then (Indiscernible) is an experienced player, and Mathews is very experienced, so they took for us the match, because they took like a 120 partnership, and we missed them in between three run outs, so the main point was that.Q. After Sri Lanka losing 44 for 51, what was going through -- what were the talks going on on the field?SAMIULLA SHENWARI: We were looking forward to dodge balls and looking forward to get them in both, and get one or two wickets down, because in the last with Perera and Mendes so there was nothing left.  So the last few wickets were all fast bowlers so we could get them very easily.  Unfortunately, they played very well, and the it was like one partnership.Q. Then again, you got doubled with Mathews out with quick touches on him.  Then what was your plan when Perera and Mendis was playing?SAMIULLA SHENWARI: We were looking forward to first of all to get to Perera because he's a big hitter.  So if we catch out Perera, maybe Sri Lanka gets under pressure.  So unfortunately, we didn't.Q. What do you think that Afghanistan lacks in this middle of game that you need to do?  Just one more step you need to take to beat top sides?SAMIULLA SHENWARI: We need some more matches with National Teams to get more experience.  We don't have that much like too much change, but we need some time from ICC to give us more matches for the test nation, so maybe we will get to more to use with the team.Q. What is the score for the One Day?  Apart from the World Cup score, how many in your group do you have that can take you to the next matches and things like that in the next World Cup?SAMIULLA SHENWARI: We have on the match a very good batsman as well.  So we still we have today was a good game, but unfortunately in the middle me and Asghar we already played like 80 partnership, but in the middle like Asghar and me.  That was the main point that we didn't make like 40, 30 runs we were missing in this match.  So that's one point also.Q. Well played today.  Close, but no cigar.  I suppose ultimately perhaps it was those last 15 runs when you had 15 overs when you guys were batting that you just didn't get enough runs as you alluded to there.  Is that where you feel you lost this game?SAMIULLA SHENWARI: No, I think we played very well, and like in the Sri Lanka, big team, we take them like same like how we fielded.  We are not like down from any one team.  We are still taking it to a big level, and I think we're just missing 30 runs missing, so that's the main point.Q. As a bowling unit, do you feel like you showed, you know, the extent of what Afghanistan can do today?SAMIULLA SHENWARI: Yeah.  I can give our bowlers did very well.  They're like on 20 runs three wickets, and 50 runs, four wickets.  So it was a good chance to beat Sri Lanka.  But Malinga and Matthews take away the match.Q. Can you tell us a bit about Hammid Hassan and his spell that broke it open?  Have you seen him bowl bursts like that before?SAMIULLA SHENWARI: Yeah, he's a very experienced player, and I think he's a good bowler from Afghanistan.  He did always a good performance in the past.  Today he played very well for Afghanistan.Q. It must have been nice for him to get a player like sang at the way he did with a very good ball?SAMIULLA SHENWARI: Yeah, it was a good ball and swing.  So he did understand what he did.Q. Do you think that the turning point there was you said 30 runs were shot or was it?  The partnership between Malinga and Matthews sort of took the game away from you?SAMIULLA SHENWARI: I think 30 runs we shot, 30 runs we were short, so maybe 30 runs would be like 260 for Sri Lanka.  Because we got very early wickets, so maybe more pressure on them.Q. You guys were going really well with the bat, and I think in the batting part you got 10 runs for two wickets from five overs.  What do you think went wrong there?  Was it a case of Malinga bowling really well, or were there things you could have done better as a team?SAMIULLA SHENWARI: No, Sri Lanka bowled very well.  We lost three wickets in the power play, so that was a very unfair.Q. So I was just wondering what you think of the plans to reduce the World Cup to ten teams?  It would make it very hard for teams like you who have brought so much to the competition so far.  What do you think of that?SAMIULLA SHENWARI: It was a good chance for us to beat Sri Lanka and England and Scotland.  We're looking forward to three matches to beat in this round.  So to go to a Super 8.Q. But in 2019 the plans to reduce the World Cup to 10 teams, what do you think of that?SAMIULLA SHENWARI: Oh, yes, it's a good sign for us.  We are looking forward to make more ODIs if the ICC can give us so we can make a chance to be top 10.Q. Do you think after you took the first four wickets that the wickets are eased out, and there was not much left for the bowlers, or was the wicket doing something for you?SAMIULLA SHENWARI: No, the wicket was very hard because inside was still wet inside.  So the ball was still moving with the seam, so our bowlers on the right area did very well, so we got the four wickets early.Q. And after the four wickets?SAMIULLA SHENWARI: It was still moving a little bit.  But Malinga and Mathews played very well.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT