WENDY'S CHAMPIONSHIP FOR CHILDREN
August 2, 2002
Mhairi McKay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR:  Welcome.  Very nice start, very nice round. 
MHAIRI McKAY:  Thank you. 
MODERATOR:  Do you want to talk about your feelings and then we'll do the score card. 
MHAIRI McKAY:  Oh, I'm drained.  It's exhausting out there.  The heat and humidity really takes it out of you.  I'm just glad to sit down for a few minutes.  But I'm ecstatic the way I played.  I struck the ball really well and managed to make some putts, so I'm delighted. 
MODERATOR:  Score card. 
MHAIRI McKAY:  Birdied 11.  I hit an 8-iron to about 10 feet. 
Then I birdied 12.  I hit sand wedge into about 10 feet. 
Actually, 11 I hit 8-iron into 20 feet, made it.  12 I hit my sand wedge into 10 feet. 
MODERATOR:  20 feet then 10 feet. 
MHAIRI McKAY:  Okay. 
Then I eagled 13.  I hit 3-wood into 10 feet, rolled that one in. 
Then I birdied the next one, 14.  It's the sun, sorry (laughter).  I hit lob wedge into about 15 feet, made that one. 
Then I birdied No. 2.  I hit 5-wood green side.  I chipped on to about 10 feet and rolled the putt in. 
Then I birdied No.  8.  I hit 9-iron to the front edge of the green and made an 18-footer. 
MODERATOR:  18? 
MHAIRI McKAY:  Yes, 18. 

Q.   (Inaudible)?
MHAIRI McKAY:  I'm sure it was hot this morning, too.  It was very hot and humid.  From my personal point of view, I feel pretty tired after the round.  I couldn't really compare one way or the other, whether the afternoon was tougher or not. 

Q.   How does this compare to other weeks on the tour lately that you've been playing?  Is it just as hot, hotter? 
MHAIRI McKAY:  I think this is probably the hottest week we had all year.  Last week we were in New York.  We usually expect a similar type of weather to this.  It was fairly cool.  Coming here, feel like I'm in a sauna. 

Q.   Were you always going to play here or not? 
MHAIRI McKAY:  I was always going to play.

Q.   Most of the people who are not here wanted to go over and play Turnberry.  You must have played it many times. 
MHAIRI McKAY:  Can't play Turnberry this week because of our tour rules.  Knowing that, I knew I wouldn't be able to play at my home course anyway.  The weather is so unpredictable over there, I felt my time would be just as well spent competing and working my game in good weather here. 
The other reason was the week after the British, I'm playing the European Tour in Sweden, and the following week, then I have a friend's wedding.  I didn't want to miss too many events on the tour in the middle of the season. 
MODERATOR:  Can you talk about Turnberry being your home course. 
MHAIRI McKAY:  I grew up in Glasgow go, but Turnberry has been my home course really since I was about 10 years old.  It's an exciting time.  I'm really looking forward to going home.  In all honesty, I've not played there that much probably the last nine years, with being at college in America and then playing over here the last five years as a pro.  I haven't really played that much summer golf at Turnberry.  How big my advantage will be, I don't know. 

Q.   A lot of focus going into this tournament was it seemed like this course was going to be quite a bit longer than New Albany.  From everybody we've talked to today, you're still hitting a lot of 8s, 9s, wedges into the greens.  Is that basically because of all the roll you're getting on the fairways or what?
MHAIRI McKAY:  Well, it's quite (inaudible) in spots.  We're getting a lot of run.  One drive I hit over 320 yards.  I think it was into No.  14, I just hit a little lob wedge in.  I really don't hit it that far (laughter). 
You still have to play the shot.  Regardless of whether you're going in with a long iron or short-iron, you still have to execute the shot. 
I think it's fun.  I think the course is set up really well.  You know, there's risk/reward to it.  I think it's fun to be able to fire at flags, see what happens. 

Q.   You said you hit 8-iron on 11.  Did you not hit driver on the tee there? 
MHAIRI McKAY:  Yeah, I didn't hit my driver very well.  I gripped the iron, I came up just short of the ridge.  The wind was slightly against.

Q.   Did you have a number of other close calls or ups and downs?  After playing four holes at 5-under, the next couple holes after that?
MHAIRI McKAY:  I hit a lot of close shots in after that.  15, the par 3, I hit it into about 15 feet.  16, I hit it into 10 feet.  17, I hit it into about 15 feet also.  You know, 16 and 17, both putts just edged by, about 20 feet. 
I gave myself a lot of opportunities.  On the last one, I had a 10-footer, I didn't make it.  I struck the ball really well.  I was delighted with that.  Kind of figured out a couple things over the last couple of days that seemed to click today. 

Q.   (Inaudible)?
MHAIRI McKAY:  I think I missed three off to the side.  I missed No.  1 actually.  I flew it over kind of just left of the flag, went beyond the pin, but managed to get up and down. 

Q.   No one is really tearing it up today.  How good a score is 65, do you think? 
MHAIRI McKAY:  I felt like I struck it well and gave myself lots of opportunities.  You always hope that you're going to take them all.  I feel good about my game.  Hopefully I can reproduce that ball striking tomorrow.  Any score in the 60s, any day, I'm delighted with that.  Especially delighted with the 65 today.  I think that was my low score of the year, I think. 

Q.   (Inaudible)?
MHAIRI McKAY:  I believe so. 
MODERATOR:  We'll double-check. 
Q.   You mentioned in Toledo one of the reasons you were coming back here is you had such a good experience in New Albany.  Are you still staying with the same family?
MHAIRI McKAY:  That's right.  I'm staying with Gary and Lindy Turnbull.  They're a couple I stayed with at the tournament when it was at New Albany.  They're just great people, lots of fun.  It's a 30-minute drive here.  It's friendships like that that I think make the week special for me.  It's not just about the golf. 
I love playing at New Albany also.  I think there's a lot of similarities between the two golf courses.  I briefly had a course record at New Albany till Wendy Ward came in last year.  I think I like Columbus in general. 

Q.   L-i-n-d-y?
MHAIRI McKAY:  Yes.

Q.   Did you stay with them all three years?
MHAIRI McKAY:  I don't think I played the first year.  This is my third year staying with them.

Q.   Considering what you shot out there last year, the way you started here today, having that comfortable feeling about being here, does that play into you playing well in a tournament?
MHAIRI McKAY:  I guess I think being relaxed in your surroundings, it's always good to have a positive influence over your game.  When you get to the course, you're feeling good about things.  I love being over there.  It's just fun.

Q.   Do you do that anywhere else on tour?
MHAIRI McKAY:  (Inaudible) a fair amount of housing.  For me that's been one of the special things about life on tour.  I get on very well with a lot of the players.  You see them week in, week out.  It's good to make such strong friendships at the tour stops.  I think it just gives you a much stronger feeling of community, the surroundings that you're in. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT