WENDY'S CHAMPIONSHIP FOR CHILDREN
August 11, 2001
Mhairi McKay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MHAIRI McKAY:  Birdied the first.  I hit sand wedge to about 30 feet, rolled it in.  Birdied the second.  Hit 6-iron to about 20 feet.  Knocked it in.  Eagled the third.  I hit 5-wood to about six feet, put it in.  I birdied the 5th.  I hit an 8-iron to about 15 feet, put it in.  I birdied 6.  I chipped up to within about an inch and put it in.  I birdied 10.  I hit pitching wedge to about 20 feet.  I birdied 12.  I hit 9-iron to about eight feet.  I birdied 13.  Hit sand wedge to about a foot.  I birdied 15.  Hit my pitching wedge to about 12 feet.  I bogeyed 18.  I pulled my drive left.  I was on an awkward slope.  I hit my approach right.  Didn't hit a very good chip.  Then had a 2-putt.  
 

Q.  How much did you have left for par at 18? 
 
MHAIRI McKAY:  Probably about 20 feet or so.  
 

Q.  Did it cross your mind, 59?
 
MHAIRI McKAY:  I guess I thought in the last three holes, I knew I had to birdie every one of them.  I felt, given the holes, there was an opportunity to do that.  But wasn't meant to be.  I'm pretty happy with 63.  
 

Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
MHAIRI McKAY:  I like it (laughter).  
 

Q.  I think you had seven straight rounds in the 70s before today.  Did you see this coming?  Did you not see this coming?  Did this come out of nowhere for you?
 
MHAIRI McKAY:  Last week when I played in the British, I felt like I was playing fairly well.  But there was just something that wasn't quite right.  Then when I got here, especially yesterday, I really felt that my swing was better and tighter than it had been last week.  I got off to a really poor start, but I managed to bring it back and shoot even par.  I knew I had opportunities to have birdies there.  I felt confident that I was swinging well.  Just a case if you could roll some putts in and get off to a better start, that would help.  I wasn't aware that I had so many rounds in the 70s up to that point.  
 

Q.  This might sound strange, but you had a chip to an inch, and a sand wedge to one foot.  Could this have been better?
 
MHAIRI McKAY:  Well, the chip that went to an inch, I really thought it was going to fall to the left, and it fell to the right.  I thought I made it.  Then I had another chip that lipped out.  I had an opportunity on 17 for birdie, and a putt on 8 that went pretty good, just knocked by the edge.  I had a lot of opportunities, took a lot.  I'm pretty happy.  
 

Q.  You just shot 63.  It looks like there's a lot of players out there who might still yet get away from you today.  Is that tough to handle psychologically or what? 
 
MHAIRI McKAY:  Well, no, considering, you know, I shot even par yesterday.  To shoot 63, I'm over the moon with that.  I thought realistically, if I got to ten under, I'd still pretty much be within a shout.  Playing in the morning I had the benefit of the good greens.  Yesterday afternoon the greens weren't quite so nice for putting on.  So the leaders, they still  -- people who are out there still have to get the ball in the hole.  I'm not going to worry about that.  I'm just happy with today's performance. 
 

Q.  You said you lipped out on one chip, and an opportunity for birdie at 17.  How far was your putt at 17?  Where did you lip out?
 
MHAIRI McKAY:  I lipped out on No.  11, the par 3.  My putt on 17 was about ten feet, 12 feet.  
 

Q.  Do you know how many putts you had today?
 
MHAIRI McKAY:  I can tell you (laughter).  12 on the front side, 12 on the backside - 24.  
 

Q.  Some golfers from overseas come over here and play in college pretty much to get ready for their tour career.  I think you have a degree from Stanford in public policy.  Obviously you have some options.  Have you got a plan beyond golf to use that degree from Stanford?
 
MHAIRI McKAY:  I think I essentially decided I don't want to get into politics, especially given more recent situations that have been happening (laughter).  I'm just really enjoying my golf.  I loved my time at Stanford.  I've got lots of great friends with the golf world there.  I think when my playing days are over, yeah, I would like to use my degree to some effect, maybe more in a business sense. 
 

Q.  Why did you choose Stanford?
 
MHAIRI McKAY:  Because they offered the best academics and sports program, and I thought  -- actually, academics is important to me.  I wanted to get a good degree that would be recognized back home in Britain should I decide not to play. 
 

Q.  You were there, at least I see from the year you got your degree, probably there at the same time Tiger was. 
 
MHAIRI McKAY:  Yes. 
 

Q.  Did you play much golf with him?
 
MHAIRI McKAY:  I never actually got the chance to play a round of golf with him.  He was always on the driving range practicing when the girls team was there.  I got to know him fairly well.  He was just like any other student, but exceptionally talented as a golfer.  I think he liked student life when he was there. 
 

Q.  You mentioned you don't want to get into politics with all the recent events.  What would you classify as "recent events"?
 
MHAIRI McKAY:  The last five years (laughter). 
 

Q.  American or British politics?
 
MHAIRI McKAY:  Well, I think they're all a bit dodgey.  
 

Q.  I looked over your results from previous years and your results from this year.  Do you feel you're on a steady course of progress?  You obviously put yourself in position here with one round to play.  Have you felt this coming, that you're progressively getting better?
 
MHAIRI McKAY:  Yeah, I think this is my fourth year on tour now.  This has been my best year.  I've just been working really hard on my game.  I feel comfortable with where it's at.  The more times I put myself in this position, hopefully the easier it will get.  Hopefully one of these days it might work out well for me.  
 

Q.  You are among probably a handful the Europeans that chose to come back.  Did you play in the British Open last week?
 
MHAIRI McKAY:  Yes. 
 

Q.  A handful of you came back to play this week.  Most played in Sweden.  What were your reasons for coming back?
 
MHAIRI McKAY:  Well, to be honest, the card that I have in Europe, I let it lapse last year, so I can't play any events. I'd have to ask for an invite or something.  I'm still a member of the European Tour, but I'm definitely focusing on the LPGA.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT