MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 8, 2008
Mhairi McKay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Birdie on 3.  
 MHAIRI MCKAY: Just short in 2. Chipped on about six feet, made a putt.  
 Birdied 6. I had a 6-iron, actually hit the flag and finished eight feet away and I made that putt.  
 Seven, hit to 6 feet and made that one.  
 Eight, I hit a 7-iron to about three feet and made that one for birdie.  
 I birdied 11, made about a 27 footer.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: What club did you hit?  
 MHAIRI MCKAY: Just a wee 9. Birdied No. 14. Hit a little detour into the trees and then punched out just off the green and then made about a 20-footer from the side of the green.  
 Birdied 15, 3rd shot to about 20 feet and made the putt. And then I birdied 18, I hit my approach to -- long wedge to five feet and made the putt.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: Alright, Mhairi. Like I said, tied the course record today with a 63. You also tied your career low, 63 that you shot back in 2001.  
 Got to feel pretty good about this round.  
 MHAIRI MCKAY: I feel great and I shot below my age on both 9s. I feel really good. Maybe that should be my goal for the year.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: I don't know what to say to that.  
 MHAIRI MCKAY: I'm 33.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: Can you talk about how you played? Something must have been going right for you.  
 MHAIRI MCKAY: Well, I just felt like for the last month or so I've been hitting the ball really well and -- in Orlando and Miami, I got off to good starts and maybe didn't quite finish the week out as strongly as I would have wanted to but I've been encouraged by the way I'm hitting the ball and maybe just not making as many putts as I would like.  
 I went over to Scotland last week and played in the Scottish Open and my brother caddy for me. He kind of noticed something and that really made the difference.   
 Last when I was in Scotland, I played well, putted much better and I think just kind of focus on, you know, staying down a lit lower through the putts and it's kind of made a difference. It made a difference today.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: Questions?  
  
  Q. So he noticed something not about your swing but about your putting stroke?  
 MHAIRI MCKAY: I was hitting the ball really well in Scotland. He knew that I was frustrated. He thought my body was coming out of the stroke a bit too soon so really just tried to stay over the ball a little bit longer, maybe a little bit lower.   
 Definitely helped me.  
  
  Q. What's your brother's  
name?  
 MHAIRI MCKAY: Kenneth.  
  
  Q. Spell it?  
 MHAIRI MCKAY: K-E-N-N-E-T-H. Kenny.  
  
  Q. Old or younger?  
MHAIRI MCKAY: Older. Obviously wiser. Don't tell him I said that.  
  
  Q. He can read it.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: His last name is McKay, too?  
 MHAIRI MCKAY: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Did you catch any kind of break on 14? You said you took a little wayward trip. Did you catch a good lie in there or a good sight line?  
 MHAIRI MCKAY: I was actually kind of under the tree but I could still see the pin and I just hit a little punch low 6-iron and it skipped up on to the green so I just -- I felt like I actually hit the shot well. I got into some trouble but came out of it nicely.  
  
  Q. How did this 63 compare to your previous career, to your previous 63?  
 MHAIRI MCKAY: Maybe it was in Columbus, Ohio.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: Wendy's, yes.  
 MHAIRI MCKAY: Well, anytime you shoot a 63 it's obviously really nice and today was just -- I had a nice calm on the golf course and I felt really relaxed. I felt relaxed on hole No. 18.   
 I think maybe the 63 might have made me a bit more nervous or uptight but it was just a fun day out there.  
  
  Q. Did you end up finishing well at that Wendy's tournament in Columbus, do you recall?  
 MHAIRI MCKAY: I don't really remember. Sorry.  
  
  Q. That's okay. We have computers for that. I should have looked it up. I apologize.   
 Did I see somewhere that you threw a number up at St. Andrews once that was pretty decent?  
 MHAIRI MCKAY: I tied the course record as an amateur. I had the amateur course record until last year and the girl I beat in the summer and then I managed to get a tie of the professional course record during the British last year so it's nice to have that claim to fame at St. Andrews.  
  
  Q. You've twice had a record at St. Andrews?  
 MHAIRI MCKAY: Three times.  
  
  Q. What's the third one?  
 MHAIRI MCKAY: I set the course record originally 69 and then two years later I broke it and shot 67. Then last year somebody, evil, obviously shot 66. Only kidding. Then when -- that was the amateur course record and then it was nice to get a tie of the professional course record of 67.  
  
  Q. So how do you find out that somebody broke your record?  
 MHAIRI MCKAY: My sister called me up and said, "You're not going to be happy. Somebody broke your course record." That's alright.  
  
  Q. Do you know the person?  
 MHAIRI MCKAY: No I don't. I think it's a German girl but records are there to be broken so it was -- maybe it was a little incentive to go out and play well last year and I'm not complaining. Good for her.  
  
  Q. Do you expect the scores the rest of the day to be relatively low?  
 MHAIRI MCKAY: Well, it appeared that some people, others were having food rounds out there, too. So it's just a really fun course to play and there's opportunities out there to make some birdies and the greens are in superb shape and I don't doubt they'll be some other great scores.  
  
  Q. Was the wind just not that much of a factor out there, just very manageable?  
 MHAIRI MCKAY: For the last four holes -- I played 15, 16 -- particularly 16 and 17 were all -- the wind was pretty strong so I think it's getting up a little bit so it will be interest to go see what happens.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: Mhairi,, go out and break the record tomorrow.  
 MHAIRI MCKAY: Shoot less than my age.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: Thanks for coming in.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT