LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 26, 2001
Mhairi McKay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MHAIRI MCKAY:  I birdied the 2nd, I hit a 5-wood just short of the green.  Tapped it up to about a foot.  Then I eagled the 5th.  I hit  -- I think it was a 7-iron into about 30 feet; made it. Then I birdied 12.  I chipped onto about 9 feet; made the putt.  I birdied 15, I hit a 9-iron to  about a foot; made the putt. Then I bogeyed 17.  3-putted from the back edge of the green from about 30 feet.   
 
Q.  When you have the lead coming into today and you're able to maintain the lead, does that give you confidence heading into tomorrow, that you can do the same thing again?
 
MHAIRI MCKAY:  Obviously, I hope so.  I wasn't really trying to think about that too much today.  I was trying to play my own game and keep hitting the shots as well as I have done the last couple of days.  Fortunately, I was able to do that and make putts along the way. 
 
Q.  You've had a very good week so far, winning in the Pro-Am last Wednesday, and also following that up with being in the leaderboard through the last two rounds.  How confident do you feel coming into tomorrow?
 
MHAIRI MCKAY:  My Pro-Am partners gave me some really good lessons on Wednesday, and I have to give them all the credit.  I'm very happy. 
 
Q.  Tomorrow, they are kind of compressing play to try to get the round in before some forecasted inclement weather.  Knowing you're going to have to move along, does that change your game plan, your thought process at all?  Are you a deliberate player or the kind that likes to play quickly?
 
MHAIRI MCKAY:  I thought it was great today in the two-ball versus the three-ball the last couple of days.  We just moved along really well.  And I'm sure we'll be able to do that tomorrow if there's some bad weather out there.  It doesn't really change my game plan at all. 
 
Q.  Is the course playing any differently today after the rain last night?
 
MHAIRI MCKAY:  No, it was in great shape.  Greens were great.  There wasn't any water lying around anywhere.  The course took the rain very well.  
 
Q.  Are you aware of Maria Hjorth's performance while you were out there?
 
MHAIRI MCKAY:  No, not really. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
MHAIRI MCKAY:  Well, I've not really been in this position as a professional, but I'm just delighted to be here and just to see what tomorrow brings.  Hopefully it will be a good day.  If not, we'll take it from there.  Put it down to experience. 
 
Q.  How's the course out there today?  Describe that.
 
MHAIRI MCKAY:  It's in good shape.  The wind picked up a little bit.  The greens were great, nice and fast.  I can't compliment the greens staff enough for  -- they've got the course looking fantastic. 
 
Q.  You went to Stanford I understand.  You know Tiger went to school there.  Do you know him pretty well, I guess?
 
MHAIRI MCKAY:  Since he finished up at Stanford, I hadn't really had much contact with him, but while he was there at Stanford, he was just phenomenal.  Something extra special.  I guess I was very privileged to be at Stanford at the same time, and it's sort of a nice story that you can tell people.  Notah Begay was there and Casey Martin also, so... 
 
Q.  Win or lose tomorrow, this is obviously been a new experience for you.  What are you going to take away from this tournament, aside from whatever check you happen to earn?  Just mentally, being in that position for the first time of being in the lead, and now being in the lead two days in a row, is that experience going to teach you anything to carry off to your next tournaments?
 
MHAIRI MCKAY:  Well, today, I felt great being in the position.  I just played my own game and executed my shots really well, was able to make some putts -- that's great to have three rounds in the 60s.  I've been very happy with that kind of consistency that seems to have come into my game lately.  It's nice to be on top of the leaderboard, and see what happens.  It's a great experience. 
 
Q.  A very tightly packed field, this tournament, with 10 strokes in the front to the back of the field today, and a lot of players still within 6 or 7 shots of the lead heading into tomorrow.  How is that going to affect your approach?
 
MHAIRI MCKAY:  I think it's like that most weeks.  It's always competitive.  And there's so many good players out there.  You know you're going to have to be in the top of your game to win any given week on the Tour.  So it's just something you know that happens, but you have to concentrate on your own game versus anybody else's; that's all you're in control of. 
 
Q.  I've only been to Scotland once and it rained all week.  Does it rain all the time there? Do you think you'll have an advantage if it rains tomorrow?  Are you hoping it rains?
 
MHAIRI MCKAY:  I hope I get an opportunity to wear my Sunderland Rainwear.  (Laughter). But, you know, I played in the rain quite a lot.  Obviously, I like to wear my shorts too.  But if it rains, it rains.  It doesn't always rain in Scotland. 
 
Q.  Do you play golf when it rains?
 
MHAIRI MCKAY:  Of course.  If you don't play golf when it rains in Scotland, you wouldn't play golf.  
 
Q.  After a 3-putt on 17, how big was it to get up-and-down on 18 out of the bunker as far as giving you momentum for tomorrow?
 
MHAIRI MCKAY:  I would have been disappointed to finish bogey, bogey.  I was a bit disappointed with 17.  18, that was really -- my 8-iron into the green was just one of the few shots that I missed all day.  Fortunately, I was able to recover out of the bunker.  I was just happy to make par.  Par's a good number.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
MHAIRI MCKAY:  I had about 97 yards to the pin, and I was on a bit of a down slope.  I just kind of closed the face down.  So it came out.  What was I thinking about then?  Well,  the first putt, I felt was more downhill.  Then I just went through my routine; tried to make the same stroke.  I think I pushed it out a bit to the right.  That was all.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
MHAIRI MCKAY:  There's no swear words in Scottish. 
 
Q.  That's the second day you bogeyed that hole?
 
MHAIRI MCKAY:  I think I parred it yesterday. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
MHAIRI MCKAY:  I think I bogeyed it the first day. 
 
Q.  Do you remember what you did the first day? 
 
MHAIRI MCKAY:  I bogeyed it one of the days.  Thanks for bringing that up. (Laughter.) 
 
Q.  What's your favorite Tiger story?  (Inaudible.)
 
MHAIRI MCKAY:  My favorite Tiger story would be on the driving range and the guys and girls would practice together, and I'm hitting some balls and minding my business, and Tiger comes up very nonchalantly and says, drops the ball and says, "Hey, watch this."  And there's a big kind of oak tree in the middle of Stanford driving range.  He said, "See that oak tree?  Going to fade if round there and head to --"  We had kind of big candy-cane goal post things that you try to drive through.  "I'm going to fade it to the right-hand post."  A fade of about 40, 50 yards with a driver off the ground in his hand.  He just stands up.   Does it.  He hits the post, just kind of walks away.  You're like "Okay.  I believe you" (Laughter.)  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT