LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 25, 2001
Mhairi McKay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  (Inaudible)?

MHARI MCKAY: I birdied the second, I had 3-iron up to the side of the green and I made two putts, birdied the third, hit a 5-iron made putt, birdied the four, I hit 7-iron in, I birdied 5-iron the front fringe and two putts in for birdie.  I birdied six, I hit a pitching wedge, birdied seven, hit a 7-iron to about 20 feet and then I birdied no. 14, I hit a sand wedge to about seven feet.


Q.  Just in general, tell us about your round.  Before you teed off, did you feel that was a good day for you; did you have the sense that everything was coming together or did it just happen as a surprise?

MHARI MCKAY: Well, I have been playing pretty consistently for the past six weeks when I came up for this tournament.  I was happy with the way my game was shaping up and this whole thing.  I could keep doing the things I had been doing during that time and I could make a few putts, which really is the key to shooting a low number, and that's what I did to date, fortunately.


Q.  Describe what's going through your head in course two through seven where you had those six straight birdies?  Have you ever been in that type of (inaudible)?

MHARI MCKAY: One time I had eight birdies in a row as an amateur.  I didn't really think about it until putt seven went in and then I just bust out laughing (laughs), it was off the slope and that was sort of a nice extra bonus.  Then on eight I probably had my easiest chance and I missed it.  That's just the way it happens.  I guess I think about it more on eight than I had been aware of up to that point.


Q.  (Inaudible)?

MHARI MCKAY: Sixty.

Q.  (Inaudible)?

MHARI MCKAY: In Scotland, at a course called Hamilton.

Q.  (Inaudible)?

MHARI MCKAY: About five or six miles away from where I live.


Q.  What's been the difference this year?

MHARI MCKAY: I guess when I first came out and started to work with my coach and we kind of looked at where my swing was and where potentially I'd like to get it to.  I had been working consistently on it since then.  I just think that since the end of last year, I just worked really hard at it and I started to see the end point that we talked about three years ago and been really consistent with pitching a lot of greens and be able to make some putts.  I think that the consistency of being able to consistently hit the same spot in my swing has helped me a lot.


Q.  The weather forecast seems to indicate that the weather is going to take a turn for the worse.  When you get on a roll as you did, is it a sense of relief to get it out of the way before the weather, you know, strikes?

MHARI MCKAY: I wasn't thinking about the weather.  It was nice and warm, it was a wee bit windy, but you have to take the weather as it comes and that really wasn't affecting my play too
much.

Q.  (Inaudible)?

MHARI MCKAY: (Laughs).  I don't know who you have been talking to.  Johanna Head, there is a lot of (inaudible).  I think we all have a wee bit of an American twang, we're getting there.

Q.  I guess, first of all, what are you going to do to prepare for tomorrow?  Do you wish you could still be playing there now, when you get into a run like this do you feel like you could be playing all day?

MHARI MCKAY: I'm going to go get some sleep.  I'm tired.  It's my seventh tournament in a row which is quite a lot, so I'm looking forward to a nap this afternoon.


Q.  You mentioned you had been playing more consistently.  It looks like you are finishing higher in tournament.  You talk about ball striking, is it one faster than your game or has everything picked up?

MHARI MCKAY: I think my ball strike has improved and I worked a lot on my short game and I definitely picked up too, and when you feel confident in that, it just kind of grows to have a
 couple of good tournaments.  It's been a bit of a snowball effect to get the momentum.  I just felt happy with my game and it's all I have been worrying about whether my swing has been feeling right this week or not.  It just felt like it's always been there.

Q.  Since you have been on tour, is this the first time you have been in this position as a leader after two rounds?

MHARI MCKAY: I think it might be.  I don't think I waited after two rounds, I think I waited after the third round and then the fourth round.

Q.  (Inaudible)?

MHARI MCKAY: No.  I think (inaudible) was a shot ahead of me.  Yeah, I think that's probably (inaudible).

Q.  On hole no. 5 here, it seems like the players -- there have been a lot of birdies on that hole.  Was it a pretty easy hole, how did you play that?

MHARI MCKAY: It's totally on the drive.  It's probably the wind today was making the hole short but the key to it is getting your drive off.  It's not the easiest of driving holes, so it's really -- the key is the tee shot, if you can nail that it makes the second shot easier and the birdies will come from there.


Q.  Could I just ask one more question?  As hot as you were, has it ever entered your mind that you might have been able to break the LPGA record -- as you were out there today, did you feel like you might have gotten under 60 in your round?

MHARI MCKAY: No, because by the time I got in my round of birdies was about nine, unfortunately, but I was very content with these rounds.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT