GINN OPEN
April 17, 2008
Mhairi McKay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Thanks for coming in. 4-under today, nice round. Can you just talk about it a little bit?   
 MHAIRI McKAY: I got off to a nice start. I birdied the 1st hole and I was just kind of over that first putt, and I just said, come on, let's start as you mean to continue, and it was good to see that one roll in.   
 I dropped one shot, I can't remember at which hole now -- 16, and I just was trying to stay within myself, and I knew that they were all pushing the tees out there and I had a good day on the greens and hit a lot of good approach shots, so I was really pleased with the round.  
 THE MODERATOR: Can we go through your scorecard? Do you remember all the clubs you hit?   
 MHAIRI McKAY: I'll try.   
 Birdie on 10, I hit lob wedge into about 15 feet.  
 Bogey on 16, I pulled my shot left and then I didn't hit a very good chip. I kind of gripped a 3 rescue, and two putts after the chip.  
 Then I birdied 18; I hit a punch 6-iron to about a foot, had a good read on that one.   
 And then I birdied No. 3. I actually made a putt from just off the green. It must have been about 30 feet.  
  
  Q. What club did you hit in?  
 MHAIRI McKAY: I had a lob wedge I'm embarrassed to say. I didn't hit the greatest shot, but the putt made up for it.  
 And then I birdied No. 4 -- No. 3 is a par-5 and I hit a lob wedge into about a foot.   
 And then No. 4 I hit a lob wedge and I was just short of the green and made the putt. That was a bad shot.   
 And then I birdied No. 7. I hit lob wedge onto the green about 18 feet and got a nice read off Nancy Scranton.  
 THE MODERATOR: Compliments to Nancy on that one.  
 MHAIRI McKAY: She's already told me I owe her a margarita.  
 THE MODERATOR: If you could just talk a little bit about your game right now so we can find out about how you're feeling this year, what's going through your mind, how you're feeling physically.   
 MHAIRI McKAY: I didn't play last week in Mexico. I played the week before at the Kraft, and I felt like I was playing really well. I've been working with Bryan Lebedevitch at the Jim McLean School at PGA West, and we just really are working on kind of staying down through the shot longer, and something that he kind of noticed in the week of the Dinah, kind of worked on a few things to help me stay through impact better, and it's definitely helped me a lot.   
 I feel like my ball-striking is in a good place, and I switched putters the week of Dinah and that's given me some more constants on the greens, too.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about the par-3, No. 16? It seems to be giving a lot of people trouble today.   
 MHAIRI McKAY: Well, it's a long hole. You're into the wind. The pin was kind of cut toward the right side of the green. There's kind of some mounds there, and I pulled my shot left. It was an awkward chip because there was a big hump there that I had to come across, and I just misjudged the break and it broke much more left to right than I expected, and then I ended up kind of hitting this other hill and I ended up about 25 feet away. It was just a tough shot. If you don't stand out there and hit a good, constant swing with a longer club in there, then you can be left with a tricky chip, too.  
 And the greens are starting to dry out now, too, and it's making it awkward.   
  
  Q. I was going to ask about the weather. Is it going to be a factor this week? It's going to get a lot hotter.   
 MHAIRI McKAY: Yay. It's been cold the last couple days. I think we were all a bit shocked on Monday and Tuesday -- I wasn't here Monday, but Tuesday. It's nice that it's a little bit warmer and the wind is definitely making the course a bit challenging. As the greens dry out it's going to be tricky to make sure you're on the right side of the hole because there's some putts out there that are incredibly slick.   
  
  Q. Would you be surprised if 4-under stood up today?  
 MHAIRI McKAY: I'm sure somebody will sink a few more putts, have a few more birdies. I'd be surprised if I was still the leader at the end of the day, that's for sure, or tied for the lead.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thanks, and good luck.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT