U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 5, 2003
Mhairi McKay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Are you hanging in there?  You're still up towards the leaderboard?
MHAIRI MCKAY:  Still have pulse, still alive.

Q. Were the conditions tough or did your swing just not be as tight today?
MHAIRI MCKAY:  I think obviously I had a couple of shots.  The swing must have been a little bit loose.  The conditions were tough, especially the last few holes, and I think the wind tricked me on a couple of holes.  It was come into, and then it was down and then it was across.  Actually, I made a lot of really good swings out there, and I'm happy with the way I struck the ball, and particularly the way I closed to birdie 17 was a big boost.  And then I think on 18 if I hit it shorter, it might have gone in.

Q. What was with the hand gesture on 17?
MHAIRI MCKAY:  Well, I just kind of felt that I wasn't getting too many bounces going my way, and it was just nice to hit a good shot and knock it close.  And I was just maybe trying to build some of my own momentum, I guess.  I'm still upbeat about it, and I'm not going to get down about today, because I think I did a lot of good things.

Q. You're still very close, and you're still very much within striking range.  Did 17 give you a positive note to end your day on?
MHAIRI MCKAY:  Absolutely.  I felt it was a good number for me, I made a good swing.  I hit it close to the hole and made a good birdie putt.  And it was nice to have a good birdie putt when I had longer par-saving putts out there.

Q. After today what do you tell yourself, because you like to think positive thoughts?
MHAIRI MCKAY:  Well, again, my swing feels good.  It feels tight.  It's definitely going in the right direction.  I didn't get off to the best start, but I hung in there and tomorrow is another day, it's only Saturday. 

Q. Do you think your nerves will be better coming from behind as opposed to trying to hang on to that lead?
MHAIRI MCKAY:  I didn't feel too bad out there, to begin with.  I think it was just -- I obviously 3-putted 2 and then put the ball in the water on 5, which didn't really come to the best start for things, but I had a lot of other good shots.  There were some tough pins out there.  It's the U.S. Open, you're going to make mistakes, I think coming from behind tomorrow I'm happy to be in that position and maybe it's nice to give somebody else a chance to sleep in the lead.

Q. Was it the wind for you on 5?
MHAIRI MCKAY:  I think it switched on me a bit.

Q. So the swing was okay, it was just the wind didn't do what you wanted it to do?
MHAIRI MCKAY:  Yeah, I think it just picked up a little bit as I hit it, and maybe I could have hit one more club.  I find myself between clubs a lot today which always is difficult.

Q. What did you hit on 5?
MHAIRI MCKAY:  7.

Q. Did you hit any drivers today?
MHAIRI MCKAY:  No.  Do you want to buy it?  (Laughter.)

Q. Are you going to be more aggressive tomorrow?
MHAIRI MCKAY:  No.  I think my game plan today was right and I put the ball, for the most part, in pretty good positions.  And I obviously made a couple of errors, but I'm not going to change game plans.  I think it's the right way to play to course.  And Thursday and Friday were really good to me, so why would I change it for tomorrow? 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT