AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 9, 2019
Kramer Hickok
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Not the finish you wanted.  Talk to us about it.
KRAMER HICKOK: It was great.  Soft conditions and the winds were down so just absolute scoring conditions, which was great.  I played at this golf course, I was a member here for two years.  It just feels very comfortable out there, knowing sidelines and how the ball is going to react.  Good round.  Hit it really nice, best I hit it all year.  Just switched putters on Monday to a Scotty Cameron Mallet.  The hole looked huge.
Q. I heard you caddied for Jordan Spieth out here.  How was that?
KRAMER HICKOK: His second year when he was 17.  It was unbelievable experience because we're in the hunt.  He was in 2nd place at one point in the round and ended up finishing 30th or something but just to see how he handled the situations and the pressure and scenarios, I learned a whole lot from it, just kind of being inside the ropes instead of being outside looking in.
That was before we went to college and were roommates.  It was a pretty cool experience to see what he was able to do at such a young age.  I'm hoping to kind of play well myself this week.
Q. Does he give you any tips about this course or do you feel like you have it pretty much figured out?
KRAMER HICKOK: We joined about the same time.  We played this course probably 50 times together.  So, there's nothing that he could tell me that I wouldn't already know.  Maybe if we were back over at Los Colinas he could help me out.  It's more about learning from him on the mental side of the game.  He's getting a pretty rough go right now.  He'll be back.  He's got all the talent in the world.  He's a 3 time Major champion.  Anyone would take that at age 25.
Q. Being a Texas guy, you have fans out here and friends and family watching you?
KRAMER HICKOK: It was awesome.  Early round and the rain was looking like -- I don't think there's a whole lot of people out there.  I had my whole family out there, couple buddies and there's probably maybe 30, 40 guys out there, get some of them and I know there will be some more out here this weekend.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT