BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 8, 2006
Taquan Dean
Andre McGee
Rick Pitino
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 COACH RICK PITINO:  Go ahead if you have any questions. 

 Q.  Talk about the comeback. 
 COACH RICK PITINO:  It's your question.  You want me to play reporter, you come up here. 
 Q.  What went into the first half? 
 COACH RICK PITINO:  We just got destroyed on the backboard, and then panicked a little bit and took bad shots and got weighed down because of it. 
 But the rebounding was so dominant on one side that it just -- we were just taken to the wood shed on the glass. 
 Q.  Did Pitt force you guys into a lot of bad shots? 
 COACH RICK PITINO:  You know, it's one of those nights where just in the first five or six minutes everything goes wrong.  If you're a veteran team, you can play through it.  If you're a good defensive team as far as size, you can get through it, withstand that type of thing.  We're not an overly physical basketball team.  We just couldn't get through that stretch. 
 You have to give them credit. 
 Q.  Coach, what was the difference in the second half, the last 13 minutes, when you guys made your run? 
 COACH RICK PITINO:  I think just we were highly embarrassed about our play.  We had one rebound from a whole starting unit.  I think the guys were embarrassed.  They had pride and just tried to do the best we can to come back and win.  If we took care of the basketball a little bit better, we actually could have won the game. 
 Q.  Taquan, what happens when you look at the scoreboard and it's 38-5, do you ignore that?  What's your feeling on that? 
 TAQUAN DEAN:  You're not gonna get it back on one play, so you got to keep chipping at it.  We've been down before, so, you know, wasn't rattled by it.  At the same time, we knew we had to play good defense and get good shots. 
 Q.  Rick, at any point when you got down, did it flash through your mind (inaudible)? 
 COACH RICK PITINO:  Well, I actually told them with 15:35 to go in the game, This is exactly the situation I was in a few years ago, and that we can do it, we can come back.  We just got to take smart shots, treat every possession as if the game is on the line, and we can win it.  I actually did mention that game. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT