CHINA OPEN
September 30, 2014
Lin Zhu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. HALEP/L. Zhu
      7‑5, 6‑4 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English.   
   
 Q.   Does it boost your confidence to know you can stick with the No. 2 player in the world?   
    LIN ZHU:   (Through translation.)   First, I hoped that I could play Halep on the court.   
   
 Q.   You won 52% of Halep's second service points.   What made you so successful returning her second serve?   
    LIN ZHU:   (Through translation.)   I'm closer to the net, so I can get and return the ball.   
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Chinese.   
   
 Q.   This year your performance is quite good.   You won a lot of matches.   You have participated in the China Open.   What are your feelings?  
    LIN ZHU:   First, I'm very happy to play those top players.   I could learn a lot from those top players.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about this match.   You are in the top 200.   You have played Halep.   Are you surprised with this result?  
    LIN ZHU:   Before the match I told myself that today many things might happen.   First I should have confidence, be it a loss or a win.   
    It is quite normal and common.   
   
 Q.   In Ghangzou you said you are adjusting your serve.   As for this match, your first service percentage is not very high.   
    LIN ZHU:   Actually, I played better this time.   I could see some results from my adjustments on my serve.   
   
 Q.   You said that you want to be in the top 100.   What is your plan?  
    LIN ZHU:   I do not have a deadline moving towards this goal to be in the top 100.   For the short‑term, my goal is to be among the top 100.   
   
 Q.   Your answers are quite short and brief.   Are you talkative or not?   
    LIN ZHU:   I'm quite shy in my daily life.   
   
 Q.   As a professional tennis player, you should be an extrovert on court.   
    LIN ZHU:   On the court I could find that form and that style.   
   
 Q.   You said before the match that many things may happen in this match.   Halep called for a medical timeout in the first set.   What is your opinion on this?   Were you influenced by this?  
    LIN ZHU:   No.   As for the previous match, when it is 5‑4 I should learn to keep up my level of play at that point.   
   
 Q.   You said when you play those top players you learn a lot.   Can you be more specific about those lessons?  
    LIN ZHU:   On the court I can learn a lot from their approach on the court, what are their strategies and tactics for different opponents.   
  
 Q.   Today Wang Qiang won the Asian Games title.   For this generation, including the US Open, HongKong, China Open, the younger generation performed well.   As for these tennis players, do you think you can succeed and repeat the victory and glory of Li Na?   
    LIN ZHU:   Right now we are very confident.   We believe that we can make it.   In addition, as for the previous generation, including Li Na and Peng Shuai, they gave us a lot of lessons.   They created a lot of opportunities for us.   
    Tennis in China is more promising than before.   
   
 Q.   You played well recently.   You come to Beijing and a lot of fans know you.   Are you still very shy to their support?  
    LIN ZHU:   Yes, I'm quite shy.   When I'm on the court, people might recognize me, so it's quite different.   
   
 Q.   In HongKong you took a photo with Chang Yixun.   Because you are very shy, you suggested that you want to make this photo with him?   
    LIN ZHU:   When I saw Zheng Jie competition and I saw Chang Yixun on the court, I love his songs.   After that concert I wanted to take a photo with him.   
   
 Q.   You played well.   Your ranking has moved up rapidly.   What is your plan for next year?   
    LIN ZHU:   Of course I may change my plans.   Right now my performance is good.   Maybe I will concentrate on the WTA competition.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT