SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 22, 2009
Scott Hoch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You actually birdied 16 and 17, which probably not a lot of people did today to make the turn at 1-under. What was your mindset then?
 SCOTT HOCH: I'm just trying to play. I just -- actually, I hit it pretty good today. I was a little off later on, I don't know, maybe I got a little tired, hit some errant shots. 
 But my putter didn't do anything for me. Yesterday it was great, today it was -- as a matter of fact today I even had two, I had about, I missed three putts, I just flat out yipped it. I just hit terrible putts from four feet and in. And that's three shots right there. 
 And it could have been a decent round otherwise without making any putts. But I just didn't -- I drove it well. Shoot, kept hitting drivers, and I don't think I missed a fairway until I got around here and then I hit some in the fringes, first cut, I thought that were good tee balls, but that's about all I did. Except I hit an errant tee shot on 4. That was it. 
 And then an errant iron on 2. Those were really the only bad shots I hit today, but I just couldn't make anything. It was, it just wasn't good. 

 Q. Surprised that you're either going to be leading or tied or near the lead?
 SCOTT HOCH: No, not really because at the end of the first day nobody was -- we had a couple 4s and then 2-under was third, I think. So, no, I mean it's -- I got to figure out what to do. I got to figure out what to do after this. The next, oh, the next few days, because I'm hitting it well enough, but yesterday I putted good, had great feel, today, I didn't read them right, the ones I putted, I misread those, and then I hit some really bad putts too.

 Q. Are you where you want to be heading in the final two days?
 SCOTT HOCH: No, I would like to be 10-under. But I'm where I can still do something. I still have a good chance as long as I play well. There's a lot of good players out here. I played with two, Bernie and James today and you know, all of us, we seemed to get stuck. We would make a birdie and then we just, we, Bernie hit it six feet one hole and then 3-putted. 
 I mean, it's just one of those things that we couldn't ever get it going. And I see why the greens weren't very good yesterday, because the greens are not, if you played early you're on much better greens. And on this poa annua, when it grows in the afternoon, especially being around 75 degrees or so, it makes it tough putting if you're not putting it well. 
 And I hit two that I didn't know -- two shorter putts where I wasn't really sure about the break -- and I putted like it. Those are the two that I really hit bad. 

 Q. Your hands are all good?
 SCOTT HOCH: Yeah, it's fine. That's fine. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT