FORD CHAMPIONSHIP AT DORAL
March 7, 2003
Scott Hoch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
SCOTT HOCH:  It regressed from yesterday - it's not pretty.  They won't allow me to hit my drives.  I had a struggle with them.  I didn't drive it well.  I struggled big time today with the 3-woods and 4 woods. It's not painful like a pin sticking in it but it's just something in there maybe pinching it.  I try to get through it.  I hit big hooks instead of just general draws.  I just made the best I could out of it today.  Easy shots that I had on the par.  I had a 125, I tried to make it with an easy 9.  I didn't hit the ball.  I barely got over the water and made bogey.  I saved myself on some shots too with some good recoveries.

Q.  What can you do between today and tomorrow?
SCOTT HOCH: Just put it in ice, put it in the trailer, is what I can do.  It's no worse than it was Wednesday.  That's when it was bothering me.  That's when I went in there.  They did something to it. It was much better yesterday.  Hopefully it will be all right the next couple of days.  It's not hurting.  It's not to the point where I have to pull out because it's hurting.  It won't allow me to swing correctly, swing like I need to. 

Q.  Well, all considered, 8-under par is pretty remarkable?
SCOTT HOCH: I played good yesterday.  It didn't bother me.  It bothers me off the tee.  Other than that it didn't bother me too much. I  still made 5 birdies.  I made 3 bogies that I never should have.  I am still hitting good shots but I will have to put the important shots down. 

Q.  I haven't talked to you since your laser surgery, how are the eyes?
SCOTT HOCH: The eyes are in good shape.  Today I think I'm seeing too well.  I see a lot more there than is actually there.  Everything is good. 

Q.  What about the new putter, the Futura?
SCOTT HOCH: Actually I putted really good.  I hit some good putts coming in.  I just misread them.  I'm still not used to it yet.  I'm rolling it and hitting a lot of good putts.  I made five birdies today and only hit 2 of them close.  It's working pretty well.

Q.  Why did you make the move to that?   What did you like about it?
SCOTT HOCH: Because it rolls so much better for me.  What I did in my stroke, it tends to correct it.  So it's tough to see you have to have it on high speed camera or whatever you call it.  You loop it a little coming back.  So when I loop it, I cut across.  Even if I square it back it puts a little cut on it.  This putter makes it come straight through and roll better. It rolls better at the greens and rolls better at the studio too where they are taking the pictures.  It convinced me.  So for me to trust something like that, because I'm a conventional guy, it must really be good.

Q.  What does it look like?
SCOTT HOCH: A potato masher with holes in it. 

Q.  Thank you.
SCOTT HOCH: All right.  I couldn't hit the shot the way I wanted to.  I'm trying to hit regular shots and I couldn't do it.

Q.  You just hit it square then?
SCOTT HOCH: Yes, I am.

Q.  Did I miss that too?
SCOTT HOCH: I made 3 bogeys but 2 of them I shouldn't have made at all. I bogeyed 8 in the middle of the fairway with just a pitch to the hole.  I'm still making some good shots.  It didn't seem to be bothering me with my irons, just my woods.  It's nothing serious, not painful.  It's keeping me from swinging the way I need to because it's making me flinch a little.

Q.  Are you changing your clubs because of it?
SCOTT HOCH: No, I'm not changing anything.  I can't.  I don't think they have non-flinch clubs.  There is nothing that I can do about it.  Just a matter of trying to get it better.  If I can't get it better, play through it.

Q.  Are you doing anything with ice?
SCOTT HOCH: I'm getting it treated down there. I'm going to do it as soon as I go in and sign a few autographs, I'm going to get that treated.  That's all I can do.  This is different than what's bothering me in the past.  This feels more like tendonitis down here, tendons or something.  It's not back up in here where it's bothered me the last couple of years.

Q.  Where did it bother you last year?
SCOTT HOCH: No, it bothered me taking it back.  I couldn't grip to take it back. Once the swing started, I was fine. 

Q.  There year, is it playing more (inaudible)?
SCOTT HOCH: Right down here.  Right when I angle it that way and then follow through. 

Q.  Where do you miss it?
SCOTT HOCH: Right when I try to stay down with it and try to hit a good draw.  I tried to do that twice and hit 2 big hooks, one in the water on 18.

Q.  When he was asking you about the age thing, is there any sense of pride in just the consistency that you had that you have been able to do this at such a high level for so long?
SCOTT HOCH: As being as I have been a good player for a long time, it's not a matter of pride.  I just try to keep doing the best I can.  These other guys play every week, too.  Age didn't have anything to do with pride out here.  It's how you finish.

Q.  When you first started though did you let yourself think what would you be doing 20-some-odd years down the road?
SCOTT HOCH: No, I figured I would be a good player, as far as being, playing this well late, or this many years down the road, no, I really didn't think about it.  But when you are in your early 20's, who is thinking about it 20, 25 years down the road?






End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT