MICHELOB CHAMPIONSHIP AT KINGSMILL
October 2, 2002
Scott Hoch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR:  We welcome Scott Hoch, 1996 Champion, past champion here, seven Top 10s in his career here, coming off the Ryder Cup last week.  Scott, let's just chat a little bit about that and what you're looking for here this week.  It's obviously a favorite course of yours.
SCOTT HOCH: Well, let's have some questions.  What do you want to know about it? 

Q.  You've been very loyal to this tournament.  Can you talk a little bit about what it is that brings out that loyalty?
SCOTT HOCH: Well, I've always enjoyed it here.  They've treated us tremendously.  I mean, I really liked it when it was in the summertime.  I like the hot weather.  It was nice and hot.  It gave me a good reason to play here and maybe not some other places.  You know, with the park, our kids  -- back when it was in the summertime and our kids were of the age that they loved the park, this was always one of our favorite places to come as a family and enjoy it, and I'll go to a lot of different tournaments if my family enjoys going.  I'm not speaking of this one but I'll come to some other ones I wouldn't go to otherwise if the family likes it and there's stuff for them to do.  But I've always enjoyed this one and the family has really enjoyed it. 
You know, the people that have run it the whole time, all 20-some years I've been here, have been outstanding.  Johnnie has been tremendous, gosh, I don't know how long it's been since she took over, the people here were great.  They were so happy we were here, especially in the summertime because they always had a problem with the British, right before, right after, and that tended to make a lot of people not play.  I've never been concerned  -- I play where I like.  I never have been concerned with what the money list  -- how much money was at the tournament or anything like that.  I just play where I've had success and where I like to go, and this was always one of them.

Q.  Do you have any concern that the PGA TOUR as the purses get better is pricing itself out of places like this?
SCOTT HOCH: See, I don't know what the reasoning is behind why there was such a quick changeover as far as from our Tour to the Women's Tour.  I've heard stories from different sides.  I don't know what the accurate story is.  I really can't comment, but the one thing is you're going to get new cities that have been want and got for a long time.  That's the positive.  The negative is sure, you've had an alliance for many years with different tournaments, and if they can't keep up the purse, and obviously this is an economic downturn a little bit where some companies are having a tough time justifying or some companies are having a tough time justifying the funds they're putting into the tournaments.  I think that's only because of economics or the way the economy is right now, not necessarily how their company is.
You know, I mean, small tournaments have survived.  Like I said, I don't know what the reasoning is here, but I know that they've got to have pretty deep pockets if they wanted them here if they really wanted it.  Without knowing the circumstances, I'd have to think there's  -- Anheuser-Busch has got a lot of deep pockets, but they might have felt their money would be better served elsewhere as a company decision.  I am not going to find fault with them.  They've got to do what they think is best, but I'm sorry they're going to be leaving. 
As far as what the reasoning is, I don't know, and as the purses go up, there are some tournaments that are having difficulties and some that are already dropped, but just like anything else, I guess the strong survive, the weak hold on as long as they can, and hopefully they can recover, maybe sometimes they can't.  They might have a different agenda like some of the other  -- like the Canadian tournament that we're probably going to lose, they put their funds into a stadium rather than a golf tournament, which is understandable.

Q.  Do you all talk about among the players, you among your friends, about a tournament falling off the schedule that maybe you all went to and you liked, or is that  -- it just happens as part of the business that you're in?
SCOTT HOCH: Well, every tournament, even if it falls off the schedule, there are a number of  -- there are a bunch of people that like that tournament.  I mean, I would say if there's tournaments that most of the guys don't like, then they couldn't get anybody to go there but that's not the case.  We have different parts of the country or how they're treated or whatever, there's always a lot of people that like the tournaments.  If it gets bumped, I'm sure they're disappointed. 
One other thing to look at, too, is we have an awful lot of tournaments, and some people think we might have too many as it is right now.  That just might be the normal progression of what happens.
I know people suffered after Labor Day.  I know those tournaments tend to suffer more because you have football, which is probably the most watched sport, and all of a sudden people in the north start spending more times in their home because of the weather; then they tend to watch the football because that's the programming, that's where the networks feel that's where the audience is.  Obviously some of these tournaments don't get the TV or the stations they want.  By not getting the slot on schedule or the TV that they want, then they don't feel that it's worth their money for the advertising, so a lot of different reasons why some tournaments will drop off.  It's hardly ever that nobody likes the tournament.

Q.  Scott, are you saying that you would favor fewer tournaments?
SCOTT HOCH: No, I'm saying some people do.  Obviously now that I'm getting a little older I might be playing less.  There are always a number of tournaments at the end of the year that in the middle of the year I plan on playing, but sometimes I just get towards the end and I'm just tired and just feel that I've just had enough this year in play.  Any time you take a tournament off the schedule a lot of people are going to be disappointed, I mean, players and the local area and the sponsor or whatever.  If that's the way it goes, then I'm not going to be barking about it, but I think for the other people that really like to play a lot of tournaments the end of the year, I would not want to see the number of the tournaments go.  I mean, that's just my preference.  My preference is I might not be playing as much at the end of the year, but just because I'm not that doesn't mean I don't want them to have the tournaments.

Q.  How many tournaments do you like to play in a season?
SCOTT HOCH: The last few years I probably averaged about 25, and this year I might  -- gosh, I don't know how many tournaments I have now, but I'm going to be in the low 20s probably.

Q.  But you consider your year's work approximately 25?
SCOTT HOCH: Well, it was, but I don't foresee playing 25 anymore.

Q.  It might be 22 or 23 or something like that?
SCOTT HOCH: Well, it could be, I don't know, and if I were to play better this year it would have been even less than what I have now.  That's just the nature of the beast.  If I would have played well, then I might play less tournaments, but if I'm not playing as well  -- play a little more and either find my game or to get to the certain levels that I want to get to, and when I've done that at the end of the year, when I've played tournaments that just adds to the schedule just to try to get in the Top 30 or whatever, the incentive is I'm trying to get, I wouldn't say it never has worked, but that hasn't worked too well for me because I usually just get more frustrated if I don't play that well.  If I'm not playing well then I usually don't play well at the end of the year.

Q.  Do you like to play in the winter more than the fall?
SCOTT HOCH: No, I like summer.  I like summertime.  I mean, this is perfect.  I play so much  -- I like playing so much from May through August that maybe some of the tournaments in September and October, you know, need a little more time to recoup.  I kind of get tired.  I usually play well in the summertime and when I play well then I tend to play more.  When I play poorly I play less, and then after I've played a lot in the summertime, then I'll play less in the fall, and then if it goes according to plan lately and I don't play that good in the fall, so I'll even play even less. 
I mean, I'm still planning to play a couple more after this.  I don't know exactly what my schedule is.  I think before more people played at the end of the year because we weren't playing for as much money earlier in the year.  I mean, that might be some of the downside of playing for a lot of money for the first half of the year.  But then if you look back on the records, a lot of the top players, they've played through the majors and then really  -- it really petered off after that as far as how much they've played.

Q.  When you talk about getting tired at the end of the year, do you have jet lag from last week or  --
SCOTT HOCH: I really don't get jet lag.  If I go to Japan I might take a couple days to get back to normal, but I can sleep anywhere or stay up or whatever.  It's just like coming back, I slept an hour.  I slept an hour before we left the next morning just because I wanted to  -- I slept about an hour on the plane.  I did fall asleep more Monday Night Football when I did get home, but I woke up at 5:30 and today it was no problem at all.  I stayed up until 2:00 o'clock watching baseball and then got up at 6:30 today to come out here and make four new friends.

Q.  There's a story on the European wire that a lot of the guys on the English team from the Ryder Cup can't even get focused on golf again because they're still so high off winning that.  Is that a bigger deal in England than it is here?  Is it more important to them than it is here?
SCOTT HOCH: Oh, yeah.  I think yes, it would have to be.  They don't have any more pride than we do in what we do, but I think it means more to them to win than it does to us, plus we're expected  -- I think when the underdog wins I think it always means more to them than it would for the person that's supposed to be favored.

Q.  So it's like basketball and the Olympics and the United States kind of thing, same kind of thing?
SCOTT HOCH: Yeah, just like Americas Cup.  Man, nobody cared about the Americas Cup until we lost it, and then all of a sudden it's big business, everyone in the world cares about it or a lot of people care about it, but nobody even  -- America won again might be a blip in the bottom of the sports page, but now it seems like it's going on all the time and they're talking about it.  Same way with us.  When we dominate it, what's the big deal, and all of a sudden when it did get competitive then it became a real rivalry, which is good.

Q.  Does that make it less appealing for the Americans who were picked for the team?
SCOTT HOCH: No.  I mean, of all the guys on the team I probably downplayed it more than any, because when I played at Valderrama, that wasn't the most pleasant experience for me.  I didn't have a problem with the crowds.  Tom Kite was good  -- I mean, he was great, the players were great, but I was just expecting more out of it since I waited so long to get on it, and I was just expecting more, and the more that I was expecting happened this year.  This was outstanding.  I mean, everything was great.  The only thing  -- two things that I really feel bad about:  One is we didn't bring it back for Curtis and Sarah because they couldn't have been any better.  They put more time into it, Curtis did and Sarah did, also.  We can't say one without the another.  And then another part I miss is not being able to celebrate a victory with my teammates.

Q.  Scott, what separated the Valderrama experience from the Belfry experience in your mind?
SCOTT HOCH: Everything was set up perfectly at The Belfry.  The accommodations were excellent, everything went according to schedule, everything is  -- the food was great.  Valderrama, I played only the alternate shots and they had a lot of rain delays, and I teed off like 4:30 and 5:00 each day, and that does not lend to being a normal day because when I started my match it was already  -- we only finished one match and then we had to come back and finish the next day, and it just  -- the weather was not good with the rain and the food was  -- it didn't flow.  This one just had a great flow.  Everything was right there.  It's a great venue to have it, although the course isn't anything special at all.  But as far as the hotel and the accommodations they had for us, they were excellent.  Everything was great.
The team got  -- with us playing so late at Valderrama and then not getting back to the hotel until, gosh, 9:00, 9:30, eating at 10:00 and then getting up to where some of the guys had to get up first thing in the morning to play the matches even though they kept getting rained out and getting delayed, everything was chopped up.  It just wasn't smooth.  This one, the people, Julius and Susan Martin and those people from the PGA ran it just beautifully on our side of it, and Curtis had everything arranged beforehand.  It was outstanding.  The only thing we didn't do it bring back the cup.  That's the only regret that I have, I mean, along with the other two.

Q.  Playing three times against Montgomerie like you did, have you ever been able to get out and have galleries quite like that?
SCOTT HOCH: The galleries were great.  They were very pro-Europe, as well they should be, but we had a lot of people there, too.  That's the way it should have been.  I didn't have a bit of problem with the gallery.  As a matter of fact, I think that's great.  I think that's why Curtis put me out as much as he did, because he knew that wouldn't  -- I could care less.  I mean, I'd love nothing more than to just shut them up.  I thrive off of the negative stuff they had.  I wasn't playing well enough and the guys that played outstanding.  That's as good as I've seen anybody play  -- I know he played five matches but I saw three of them, and that's as good as I've seen anybody play other than Tiger in the last three years.  That's better than I could ever see anybody that I remember putting for those three rounds.  I know the rounds I didn't play with him, the other guys were barking about how well he was putting there, too.  He played outstanding.  I figured I was going to beat him in the singles because he had played four rounds, and usually guys that play four rounds go into singles, the odds are against them, but then again I played 36 the day before, too.  The day before I was on my game except I made a few tired swings at the end.  I just didn't have my great game that day and I needed it, but I know a lot of people have criticized Curtis for the lineup, and all I can say to them is either they don't know much about golf or they're idiots.  For Sam to do that  -- let's say we played decent, not even just great, not even really good, but just decent.  The cup would have been over after the eighth or ninth match.  I mean, it would have probably been  -- and then what kind of decision would have been  -- Sam, oh, he blew everything in the very beginning and everything else, they'd have been all over him.  It wasn't Curtis' fault.  You look at Orlando.  They put their top three  -- they went pretty much down in order, how they were playing.  They put their top three out there.  They split.  They split.  If I'd have known that and would have bet on that, I would have said that it would have been over by the tenth match, but we didn't hold up our end of the bargain, the rest of the guys, didn't play well.  Actually I was looking at all the scores of the individual matches, and if I'd have played  -- there were like three Europeans that play really good golf.  Other than those three I would have been in or leading all the other matches  -- not all of them, but I'd have been tied, maybe one down through that point or up.  A number of our guys didn't play well, and that's the wrong time to do it.  Whether they fed off of that or whether it affected them seeing all the other  --

Q.  All the blue numbers on the board.
SCOTT HOCH: Blue, but we split the first three, and when Curtis got into the interview room, I understand the first question he got asked was don't you feel like a buffoon or an idiot for the lineup that you put out there  -- he didn't use that word, but it meant that, whatever it was, and it pretty much was a stupid question, and his comeback was, well, look at this.  He had me leading off, which I'm normally a very good match player and I'd been playing well.  I played really well the day before, made a bunch of birdies, playing well.  He had David Toms, which other than Monty, was the best player there, then you had Duval.  He didn't say it, but he just named those three and said, hey, what's wrong with those three?  I mean, it wasn't as if we didn't give them any credit.  We got together, a few of us, and kind of went over the pairing, how we wanted to do it.  Curtis kind of asked our opinion, and what some of us did say was not put Tiger last, but nobody said put him below ninth or tenth.  Some of us would be saying  -- it wouldn't have made any difference.  He'd have still been playing their lower-tier guys.  Even if he'd have done that  -- but I can't find fault with what he did. 
I look over the lineup, it still looks pretty good the way it went out, and you put the top two guys in the world bringing up the rear, and Tiger wasn't playing well, and Phil, you know, he was on Monty, too, because the guy he played obviously didn't have as much of the reputation as the other guys, but he was like 4- or 5-under for the match.  It wasn't as if Phil played poorly to lose his match.  That was big.
If you look back on it, too, if McGinley doesn't make that putt and Davis wins the last hole to win his match, the thing is tied.

Q.  And then Tiger doesn't concede to Jesper?
SCOTT HOCH: When has Tiger ever done that?  That wouldn't happen.  I saw Davis 1-up on 15 and I left 15 because I thought he had that hole won because the other guy was all over the place, wasn't on the green in four, was in the thick rough 100 yards away, and all of a sudden he ends up tying him and wins another hole to get even with Davis. 
It was so much closer than people think as far as tying, but I look back and we didn't play well as a team.  I've heard different numbers, but I've heard anywhere that their team was 20 to 28 under on theirs, and we were, what, over par?  There was a big discrepancy of what they said their total score was for their players compared to our total score for our players.  We just didn't play well.  If you don't play well it's tough to get beat even though you're so favored.  Look at the World Championship in basketball.  The A players didn't even win.

Q.  They're sixth?
SCOTT HOCH: So they've got to qualify now to make it.  Every now and then that's going to happen, but it seems to be happening more and more in the Ryder Cup.

Q.  How difficult is it to take guys who are individuals basically playing in individual sports, and mold them into a team?
SCOTT HOCH: I don't think it's that hard.  I don't think it's much to it at all because I think all of us enjoy playing the team game.  It's something different and we enjoy it.  We enjoy getting together with the guys and being that close because very seldom are we that close with maybe but one or two guys on the Tour as we were with all 12 guys and their wives and everything else there.  I mean, we were  -- I've been on Presidents Cup teams, I've been on a Ryder Cup team, this is the second Ryder Cup team, and this is by far the closest knit group that I've been around where we had more fun during the week than any other team that I've been on.

Q.  Was there any time after it was over on Sunday that you guys all got back together for dinner or anything like that?
SCOTT HOCH: Oh, yeah.

Q.  And what was the mood like?
SCOTT HOCH: Well, we were disappointed.  We were disappointed.  I mean, everybody felt worse for Curtis and Sarah because they put so much time into it.  For us, you know, they put three years into it.  I mean, they lived it.  As a player, we lived it for a week.  We were there and played for a week, and then we get right back on our games, come here for an individual tournament.  But it wasn't a matter of anybody sitting there molding us into a unit.  I mean, we really enjoyed doing that.  I think to a man everybody enjoys playing in a team game, getting together, playing darts, playing pool, playing ping-pong with everybody on the team and eating all our meals together at the same time and everything else.  It was a lot of fun.  I'll have a lot of good memories from this past week? 

Q.  So you don't buy this notion that's been floated in some of the national media that somehow the Europeans are a closer team and the Americans are somehow just 12 entities and they don't bond...
SCOTT HOCH: No.  We might do it differently, but I don't know how that's different because I wasn't around them. 
See, when foreign players say play our Tour, most of those guys kind of play together in their practice rounds.  They know their games a lot more than maybe we would with our fellow guys.  We play with them maybe some practice rounds, but then the only other time we get together is when we're playing in tournaments against each other, but I think they play a lot of  -- the ones that come over here and play a lot of their practice rounds together.  Sam is a great guy, Torrance.  He's a fun guy.  I've known him for a long time, since the early '80s, and he's a fun-loving guy and I'm sure he's a great captain.  As far as everything done to get us ready to play and the atmosphere and everything else, I'm not sure that you can be better than Curtis was.

Q.  Well, do you think it could be too organized?
SCOTT HOCH: Well, everything is kind of regimented.  Well, that's part of the whole Ryder Cup.  We have to do this at a certain time, that at a certain time, show up here at a certain time, leave the dinner at a certain  -- it's all that way but it's that way for them, too.  I mean, I don't think it affects any one team more than the other.  Sure, they might want it more than we do, but when we get there we really want it.

Q.  You guys played great on Saturday.  I mean, it's not like you played bad.  I mean, the Saturday play  --
SCOTT HOCH: We played  -- somebody told me this and I don't know if it's true, but the matches that I had, I played four matches, they said that each match that I played, the opponents that I or we played shot the lowest round in that format each day.  I mean, that was unlucky for me.  The first match I played I just played fair.  The two matches I played on Saturday I played well, like I said, except for a few tired, errant shots in my last match, like the last five holes or so.  But I still hit some good shots in between and everything else.  And then Sunday I was a couple under, just played average, needed to play better and didn't.  For me that was just unlucky because I don't think I've ever played that good and gotten so little out of it as far as when it comes to points or credit for anything.  I mean, I shouldn't get any credit, but I lost three and a half points, but it wasn't as if I played poorly.  That's the way match play is.

Q.  The team got off points-wise to a bad start on Friday morning.
SCOTT HOCH: We always do.

Q.  That's the question.  Why is that?
SCOTT HOCH: He said that in the  -- he made us aware of that at dinner the night before; we talked about it and he made us aware of that, and we said let's not do that.  Let's just get out there and think that we're in the hole already and just go out there and then play.  They're better than we are at best ball because I think they play better when they lean on each other.

Q.  But yet Tiger and Azinger go out there in the first group, shoot 63 and lose.  It's not like  --
SCOTT HOCH: Well, we got 11-under and tied on Saturday afternoon, and that wasn't their best team.  McGinley, he not only won the last point or the deciding point, but he was very instrumental in them tying us on that Saturday match which was important.  He hit some great shots coming down the stretch.  He was probably not really the surprise, I don't think they had any surprises, they just all played well, but I think he did the most crucial shots and putts that anybody other than Colin against Furyk in the singles.  He birdies out of rough on 17, comes back for two and tied it up.  Against us he made some key birdies and made pars, parred 18 when Darren was already out of it, and he birdied 16 and I think he birdied 15.  I think Colin was ispirational and he played the best out of everyone there, and I think McGinley was probably the one that hurt us the most because we weren't expecting that.

Q.  And Price.  I mean, Price against Mickelson  --
SCOTT HOCH: That's just one match, though. 

Q.  What about Monty?  Monty came across as almost embarrassed as well as he was putting against you.
SCOTT HOCH: He should have been.

Q.  I'm serious.
SCOTT HOCH: He should have been.  It's just not fair.  I just figured one of these days I was going to catch him when he did do it but I never saw that day.  Last time I played him was at Valderrama and he hit it terrible.  He made everything.  He made everything but it hit it good.  That's a tough combination to beat.

Q.  One more thing, Scott.  One of the things that made a lot  -- got a lot of attention over there was on Thursday when Curtis came in to announce his pairings, they said to him how set were these pairings in your mind?  Curtis said all of them were set in my mind except one.  He said I was going to have Calcavecchia with Woods in the first match, but when I got here this week, I found out that Calcavecchia doesn't play well in this format so I changed it?
SCOTT HOCH: Well, Calc felt more comfortable in the other format.

Q.  Curtis said I found out he's 4 and 0 in best ball and 0 and 4 in foursomes.  He said when I got here this week I found that out.  I mean, everybody's head snapped.
SCOTT HOCH: Well, it wasn't as if he found out, but Mark did not  -- I mean, he wanted to play the other.  If he was going to play one or the other, he felt because he had a better record that he'd rather play alternate shot than best ball.  When I think of Mark, I would rather have, just like everybody would, rather have him at best ball.  That's what I would think.  You don't really need to look back at these records.  They can be deceiving.  Like Valderrama I think I was undefeated.  I think I played better this time than when I was undefeated.  I had good partners and we played well those two matches and we played some tough teams but the other teams didn't play great like the teams that played this time.  That's the way match play is.  One thing good about Curtis is he listens to the players.  When we were figuring how  -- when he was figuring, nobody was going to talk him out of putting Tiger last, which we understood.  That was a very sound judgment, and it was brought up at our meeting that only once has it gone to the last match.

Q.  So why is that sound then?
SCOTT HOCH: Then he came back and said, hey, but if it does come down to that, who would you rather have?  You'd rather have the guys that can handle the pressure and the best players, which would be if Mickelson  -- the two best players in the world if it came down to that, which it should have come down to it.  It did come down really to those two, could have   --

Q.  Could a guy being the best player in the world or second best player in the world might not be the best match player in the world ?
SCOTT HOCH: Well, I think he's proven himself to be the best match player in the world at one time.  Look at all he did as a junior and U.S. Amateur.  He played well in the match play tournaments up until this year, he lost early, but he still made it to the finals.  That's tough for a favorite to do because everybody is gunning for you, but I think his game has changed.  Tiger goes for the long hall.  He's got it to where it's not a go-for-broke like he used to when he first came out, when he was a very aggressive player.  He's found he doesn't have to be an aggressive player to win.  He eliminates mistakes.  Now he plays safe for the marathon.  He doesn't run the 100-yard dash.  If it's an 18-hole tournament anybody can win that 18 holes.  He figures what's the best chance and which type of game can he have that will be best suited for the marathon, the four rounds.  That's the way he plays now.  It might be tougher for him now to play the aggressive style than he used to, which is advantageous to have in match play, compared to the way he's learned to play now and be so successful with.

Q.  Then it's tough to put him in the last spot if you're thinking that the match is going to be on the line.
SCOTT HOCH: No, it's easy to do that because if you're going head-to-head, you think that other guy is feeling good that he's playing Tiger, the best player in the world, when he knows he can't beat him, and Tiger every time he needs a shot can pull it out?  That's what he's done over his career.  No, I wouldn't want to play  -- I wouldn't want to be the guy playing him if the matches are riding on it.  That guy won't be able to swallow.

Q.  You were saying that Tiger is the best, Phil Mickelson is second best.  What if you put those guys where you were to start out the day.
SCOTT HOCH: Then we'd have been 0 and 2 given they played the same, but also given  -- I did read something kind of derogatory about me, saying that what happens  -- they asked Parnevik, what was your feeling or what was the European feeling  -- what was your feeling when you saw that Montgomerie was playing me first match, and he said, oh, man, we felt great.  Which  -- rather than Tiger.  I don't know if he said anyway, but sure, I think they were comparing what if you saw Tiger there instead of me.  They were happy that it was me  -- that we didn't front-load our lineup because then they would have  -- I don't know what would have happened, but if Montgomerie would have played the game, he would have beaten everybody except for one guy on his team.  But obviously if he's playing somebody else like a Tiger or a Mickelson, then he might not have played the way he did.

Q.  What about  --
SCOTT HOCH: But we don't know.  Even so, after the top three matches, top three guys, we were even.  We were split, and I think we'd have taken that.

Q.  Before it started?
SCOTT HOCH: That's one thing that Curtis did that was a very good move.  He had Toms kind of backloaded, too, and he made the decision, well, we need to get some more meat up there depending on how Sam is going to put his lineup.  We don't want to put the young rookies or whatever, we still want to put some good players.  You've got to think  -- maybe not look at me as the player I am but the player I am in match play or  -- I feel I'm a better match player  -- well, all my career, than a mental player.  It's not that far-fetched to think he put me up there because the crowds wouldn't bother me, the situation wouldn't bother me, mainly because the other guys were into the Ryder Cup probably more than I was before we got there.  Hey, Toms, he played the second best player there of the 24 guys as far as the way everybody played there all week.  You put him No. 2.  You put Duval, which obviously he's not playing as well as he used to, but he's still a guy that you've got to fear, and we came out with the split.  I was the only one that lost.  From there I would have thought we would have done well if the rest of the team would have played decent, and we didn't.

Q.  Wasn't golf the big winner, though?
SCOTT HOCH: Oh, yeah, I thought it was outstanding how the crowds were, the sportsmanship.  There's hardly even anything that caused a ripple.  I thought it was outstanding because I criticized the event in the past for not being what it was designed to be, what it was originally designed to be, and I think this Ryder Cup got back to the way these matches should be held.  The wrong team won, but they were held  -- I hold it in a lot higher esteem than I did before because they were conducted the way it should be with sportsmanship but really good competition.

Q.  What about playing on the road, the significance of that?  It appears to me in this kind of competition that whether you're home or away has an awful lot to do with it.
SCOTT HOCH: It probably wouldn't bother me very much either way because when I'm playing over here I'm not exactly the favorite no matter who I might be battling with.  I might not be the favorite here.  Really that doesn't  -- as a matter of fact, I love playing over there when they're against me because when I'm playing well, you know, you could quiet them down.  I like playing on the road, but some of the other guys  -- I didn't ever discuss it with the other guys but it might affect them some, but I don't think that much.

Q.  What about the way they set up the golf course?
SCOTT HOCH: Yeah, that makes a big difference.  Another thing that they did, they slowed the greens down on Sunday.  I don't know if that was on purpose or not, but to a man, all of us agreed that the greens were slower on Sunday that they were on the other days.  I don't know the reason, but second hole I had a downhill 12-footer and left it a foot short and hit it the way I wanted to.  I'm thinking, whoa, maybe I just misjudged it or something, but when we got in a lot of us were talking  -- I had a number of putts that were dying and breaking off of the hole because I thought I hit some good putts that weren't going in.  Also they had the high rough, and then right before the tournament started they cut it down.  It was still rough, still some good rough, but when we got there it was pretty high, and we were licking our chops.  That's part of being the host.  You can set up the course the way you want.





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT