THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
May 29, 1997
Scott Hoch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  I heard you had a 50-footer earlier, is that right?
 
SCOTT HOCH:   That would be very conservative, I would say it was around 70 foot from the fringe, over a sprinkler. 
 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
SCOTT HOCH:   It was one of those things, my awful drives set up my birdie.  It was one of those days, like my father knows, and like I told my caddy, I said I'm done already, I can't play in the cold and the rain.  If anything can help me out from having all this gear on, I think one of the main problems I've had recently, why I haven't played well is because I didn't swing a little fast.  And I think with all this stuff on I couldn't do that.  It slowed me down.  I was really hitting it very short, but I was hitting it straight and I was hitting my irons solid, which I haven't been doing, at least the last four or five days.  It's one of those things where your expectations are very low, and so you just kind of go out there free-wheeling it, and that's what I did.  I couldn't have scored much better.  I had one major lip-out and I 3-putted 16.  So that was the only faux pas I had.  And I was fortunate with some other birdies.  
 

Q.  When you come to this tournament, year in, year out, it seems like every year the weather is a factor.  Is that pretty much something that's in your mindset when you come up to The Memorial?
 
SCOTT HOCH:   No, you don't think that, you think once every 15 years or so you have good weather, and you think that this year might be the one.  I think after today it might not be too bad.  But let's hope -- if it doesn't rain, if the wind comes up or something to even things up.  I shot a very good round.  I was very fortunate with it, but I'd hate to see it kind of get still or soft, and without any rain or wind the guys are going to shoot really low here, because the course is in excellent condition. 
 

Q.  But you're pleasantly surprised?
 
SCOTT HOCH:   I was very surprised for me to shoot a 67 today, very much so.  Like I said, my expectations were very, and I exceeded them by about 10 shots. 
 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
SCOTT HOCH:  That's the kind of golf courses I like. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT