U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 12, 2014
Gil Morgan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Looks like you finished strong.  Don't be talking about retiring when you finish strong like that.GIL MORGAN: I don't know, man.  That was a little suspect.  I don't know.  I played decent today.  Made a couple of mistakes putting which really hurt.  I had a couple 3-putts that if I could have gotten away from that and shot even par today I don't think that would have been too bad. You know, I'm not in great position but at least it would have been kind of nice to shoot an even par round around here.Q. (Inaudible?)GIL MORGAN: I don't know what happened.  Sneaked one in there.Q. There aren't low numbers.  The numbers are about -- I don't know if you've had a chance to see it but the good numbers are about what you shot and I think there's three, four in red today.GIL MORGAN: Really?  Yeah.  It's pretty hard out there.  The wind is a factor as always.  The course played all right, I thought.  I guess I was a little bit more comfortable with it today than I was the first couple of days for some reason.  I don't know. The greens were holding fairly well and it was a little bit deceptive with the wind at times, hard to get the ball -- you hate to start it over bad stuff to get to the hole.  That's kind of hard to do sometimes.  But, you know, if were you trying to get it close that's what you got to do, you know.Q. Talk a little bit about 11 and 17.  Those were your two birdies.GIL MORGAN: Well, on 11 I hit -- really I didn't have a very good drive.  Hit it in the bunker and I had about 115 yards.  Hit a pitching wedge in there -- actually it was about 15, 18 feet past the hole, kind of made a downhill, left to right putt.  Went right in the middle, though. Then at 17, I hit 6-iron from about 175 or so and I got it just past the hole and it was up in that little left plateau which is really hard to get to with the left wind and the bunker and the water and all that stuff. But, I just happened to hit a decent putt there and went right in the middle there, too.Q. Gil, you mentioned the greens but it seemed like yesterday they were really holding.  They're not soft but it looked like they were holding well. Would you talk about how they were for you and how you think they'll be by the time Monty and the guys finish?GIL MORGAN: I would expect them to dry out a little bit, obviously as the day goes on and the later you play, obviously, the drier they should be. They were, you know somewhat receptive.  Seemed like a lot of you humidity early and then it kind of dried out humidity-wise to me last couple holes, didn't feel like I was perspiring much.  That means they may get to dry out a little bit more is the way I look at it. You know, they're holding shots, decent shots into the green from the fairways.  If you start getting in the rough then you got a lot of work, you know.Q. How thrilled are you to make it through the cut and play another couple rounds here at Oak Tree?GIL MORGAN: It was good.  That was kind of my goal starting out.  I didn't think I could have a real good chance to win here but, at the same time, you never know what's going to happen. I kind of set my sights and trying not to make too many mistakes and survive the cut and kind of see.  I had a bad round yesterday which kind of threw me out of kilter.  First day I didn't feel like I was in to bad a shape overall but I played poorly yesterday which meant that I kind of way down the leaderboard.Q. Gil, how much satisfaction would there be if you beat the three flat bellies from Oak Tree?GIL MORGAN: I don't consider it a big challenge or anything but, you know, it's always nice when you're their elder citizen, I guess, to be able to play with or a little bit better than they do. It would be fun to come in at low at Oak Tree, I guess, if you can do that.  I don't know whether you can or not.Q. Would they buy you dinner?GIL MORGAN: Bob really played well yesterday.  He kind of struggled coming in but he hit some marvelous shots yesterday.  He hit it right at the hole a bunch of times. Last three holes kind of ate him up yesterday and Willie salvages around a couple times.  He didn't play nearly as solid as Bob did and I don't know what happened to Scott. It's hard to play.  I remember my first time on the Champions Tour to play, I was really nervous the first week, didn't know exactly what to expect or that type of thing and then coming here, I don't know whether it was an advantage or disadvantage coming in here for the Open. The golf course a little more critical than a normal event for a Championship Tour, obviously, and this may have played a part in his performance at that point in time.  So, you just don't know.Q. Gil, what do you think about some of the guys at the top like Monty and Bernhard Langer?  Talk about their chances.GIL MORGAN: I watched the telecast yesterday.  They played pretty well most of the time.  They hit some really good shots and -- what I noticed the most, everybody was making a lot of putts on TV at least.  I don't know whether they were showing all the putts. But seemed like every time you turn around somebody was making a 10-footer for save or 20-footer for save or 30-footer for birdie.  They seemed like they putted -- I know they putted a lot better than I did the last couple of days.  That makes a big difference, obviously if you can -- like Bernhard got out here and laid up and made par at the 9th hole. I saw that on TV.  I made 5 from there most of the time, you know.  But it's nice to be able to putt at that level.  That's why they're up there at the top, really


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT