CHARLES SCHWAB CUP CHAMPIONSHIP
October 28, 2005
Gil Morgan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q   In the lead right now at 6 under, just talk about your day.
GIL MORGAN:  Well, for me, I think overall I played pretty consistent except for two or three holes.  I drove the ball a lot better today and hit a lot of greens, had quite a few opportunities and didn't make as many as I'd like, but at the same time I had some good chances out there.

I played the front nine pretty    I putted about as well as I could putt it seemed like under the circumstances, and then on the back side I made a couple of errors.  I three putted 13, knocked it on there in two, and I guess I got a little    I only had about 35 feet and three putted, knocked it by about six or seven feet, and I guess trying to make 3, got a little too greedy there.  Then I bogeyed the next hole.

The next hole I got the ball up and down out of the bunker on 18.  Other than that, I played pretty well.  A couple errant drives, but most of the time I kept the ball in play.

The course played a little bit longer today I think because of the coolness and the dampness, but it seemed like some of the iron shots into the par 5s I had a little longer clubs than I had yesterday.  But all in all, the course is still pretty much like yesterday, maybe just a little softer, a little longer.

Q.  (Inaudible).
GIL MORGAN:  Yesterday I didn't drive it very well.  I hit three or four errant drives that cost me bogeys, I think three out of four.  Today I drove the ball so much better    I didn't have to worry about that.  So like you say, driving the ball into play is very critical here this week.  The rough is pretty deep, and then with the rain and everything, it's awful wet and thick and so it makes it very difficult to play efficiently out of the rough.  You can hack it out of there and try to do a lot of different things.  But more than likely, if you get the lies like I had yesterday, you're not going to hit very many good shots.  So you're going to have to work to get the ball up and down from short of the green, which is also hard to do, get the ball right around the pin.  Sometimes the ball spins back and then sometimes it stops right where it is.  Very rarely does it bounce forward much.  A couple of holes it did that, like 7 it did that.  I was in the short rough, and it kind of released about 15 feet, which kind of surprised me.

But the rest of the time the ball was pretty much stopping where it landed.

Q.  (Inaudible).
GIL MORGAN:  Well, the golf course is in very good shape.  It's always nice to come and play golf courses that are manicured well and the green speeds, I like that    for my game I like that very much.  It's something that we play a lot of development courses sometimes, and it's    out of bounds on both sides sometimes and those kind of situations, so it is nice to come back and play a more traditional style of golf course.  We don't get that opportunity too much.

Q.  How much would it mean to you after the kind of year that you've had, a win?
GIL MORGAN:  Well, I think the critical portion or part of that is the fact that I haven't won this year, so it would be a big plus to win here this year for me because it would    not only would it fulfill my win streak, keep that somewhat alive going into next year, plus it's a big money tournament, Schwab points could move me up a little bit where I'd have a chance to do a lot on the Money List.  There's three or four things that are involved here.

Q.  You start thinking, "man, I haven't won this year."  How long has that been on your mind?
GIL MORGAN:  Ever since the first event (laughter).  I don't know, I was talking to Dave Marr earlier.  It's got to end at some point in time.  Just whenever that is, it's going to happen at some point.  So I might as well get ready for it one way or the other.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT