SENIOR TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP AT GAILLARDIA
October 27, 2002
Gil Morgan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Final round 69, not quite good enough, but good way to end the year.
GIL MORGAN:  Thank you. 

Q.   Take us through your day.
GIL MORGAN:  Well, about 16 I slit my wrists, but -- I don't know, I kind of got off to a pretty good start and birdied the first two holes, and birdied the 9th hole, so I made the turn in pretty good shape. 
On the backside I didn't seem to hit the ball as well as I did earlier in the week or even the front side.  So I didn't have as many opportunities.  I couldn't cash in on them as well as I did earlier in the round.  And then I made some mistakes on top of that.  The bogey at 16 really hurt, at that point in time, with not too many holes left.  And Tom was playing pretty consistent, hitting a lot of shots on the greens, around the greens and was able to get up-and-down himself every time he made a mistake.  I just didn't feel like I played as well as he did coming down the stretch, and that was the biggest difference, I think.  I didn't hit as many greens as I'd like, and so it ended up being a situation where I finished second, obviously.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
GIL MORGAN:  Well, it's a brand new driver for me, for one thing, and this is the first time I really tried it under the heat, and being down the stretch that may have been something -- it's a little bit light, I think, overall weight is a little bit light.  So I just may not have had as much feeling with the club as I should have.  So that's one of my goals in the off-season here is to -- I like the driver, it's a strong driver, and I hit some good shots.  I hit some really good shots with it.  So it's the situation where I'm going to try to work and cure some of those ills somewhat in the off time, here.  But I don't know exactly how much it weighs or anything.  I got it I guess on Tuesday, Monday or Tuesday -- Monday, I guess.  And I tried it in the Pro Am and played the whole tournament with it.  I hit a couple -- I added a little bit of weight to it, but I don't know if that's exactly right.  I hit behind the ball several times on the practice tee.  And yesterday I hit behind one on -- I guess on Saturday when I played with Don Pooley.  I hit behind one about a foot.  And I think that's just not being able to feel the club head as much.  So it might have been a bad play at this point in time the way it turned out.  But all in all I thought I played pretty well with that club.  It's a new Callaway 2.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
GIL MORGAN:  On 16?  I pitched out with a sand wedge.  I had a really -- I guess I was just lucky to find the ball, over in that junk.  But it wasn't sitting all that well.  I just took a swing at it with a sand wedge, and hit a 4-iron in from there.  I hit a couple of errant shots.  I don't know exactly whether it was -- just being a little bit tense or apprehensive or trying to do well.  Earlier I kind of came over the top of a 3-wood over on the 6th hole and hit a bad shot with that.  I think I was just trying to hit it too hard.  And I hit a couple of drivers low and thin.  So it's kind of all through the day a little bit.  So I don't know exactly what caused all that. 

Q.   Just run through the birdies real quick.  Birdied 1 and 2?
GIL MORGAN:  First hole I hit 7-iron in there behind the hole about 25 feet, 20 feet, and made that one. 
Next hole I hit a sand wedge about -- oh, about I guess about seven or eight feet and made that.
At 9 I hit a 6-iron behind the hole about 12 feet and made that one.
And the last hole I hit a sand wedge in there -- I hit a pitching wedge in there about 12 feet behind the hole and made that.  And that was about it.  
I got it up-and-down at 15 to save par, made about an 8-footer there for par, which --.
And then I played 14 poorly, I was able to make a chip and save par there.  But I didn't get it close enough to the hole. 





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT