SENIOR TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP AT GAILLARDIA
October 24, 2002
Gil Morgan
Doug Tewell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.  How was it out there today?  Was it as bad as any time you can remember?
GIL MORGAN:  Well, not only is it cold, wet; it's a little bit windy.  Some of the conditions we have played in over our career have probably been similar to this.  Muirfield one year was very tough.  I guess I've gotten -- at the Tradition a couple of times has been tough, but it wasn't raining, but was just cold.

Q.  (Inaudible.)
GIL MORGAN:   Stockton  -- inaudible -- harassing him today.

Q.  (Inaudible.)
GIL MORGAN:   He didn't hardly start.  You're talking to the wrong guy. 
DOUG TEWELL:  He got to play four holes and I got two tee shots.  I found the first one. 
You know, they have an obligation to get us out there and play until it becomes unplayable.  And we're pretty spoiled over here.  We don't have to play in a lot of bad weather, but Gil can probably explain to you more what the conditions are.  I can just tell you on the first hole, I was miserable.
GIL MORGAN:   It was definitely no fun.  Everything was wet.  You could not keep your gripe dry, your clubs dry.  Water was running off and everything.  We were getting in and out of the cart  -- that was another thing.  That might have been harder than walking today.  If you had an umbrella, you would not have had to go through all that, in and out, but it was definitely warmer than it would be walking. 
After I teed off, it started kind of misting a little bit and then it started raining well enough, but, I don't know, I thought it was a bad day all together. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
GIL MORGAN:   I had too much, probably.  I had my rain pants on.  Just trying to kind warm and dry and which was virtually impossible today.  My hands kept getting really cold, and everything I touched got wet.  My gloves got wet  -- I used them quite a bit.  Pretty dry compared to other tournaments  -- when it's cold you keep your hands in there.  It keeps them pretty warm.
DOUG TEWELL:  We have some heat packs and some things that guys actually tape to their necks.  I had a heating pad around my back.  I didn't warm up with it and felt uncomfortable teeing off without it but didn't use it.  Nice thing about modern science is you can heat your body up really good.  I had four hand warmers in each of the four pockets, so anywhere I could stick my hands, I could stay warm. 
We had a heater inside the cart, but it was such a pain getting in and out of that cart.  I told my caddie, Tomorrow, we're walking.  I can stay dry if I hit the shot, put my hands in my pocket and walk with the umbrella.  Sometimes with the cart, we take them for convenience, but I'm miserable in it.  I think I'll probably go without it tomorrow. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
DOUG TEWELL:   I think they said our tee times are two hours later than when we started today as far as the second round.  So I'll be at 1:45 and teeing off at 9:00 in the morning.  I won't HAVE MUCH time in between.  We'll get to play a lot of golf tomorrow. 
GIL MORGAN:   Starting at 9:00 and then supposedly two hours later you're going to be going again.  Two hours later than the original time. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
GIL MORGAN:   I think considering that they had not started  -- I think the guys who didn't start will have the biggest advantage overall because they didn't have to do deal with it too much.  Gibby was playing good; I think he was 4-under at one time, but gave it all back on last couple of holes.  He's playing very well. 
Several players are around par or under par, even though it's playing pretty long, I thought.  First hole, I hit driver, 5-iron the first hole.  Practicing in the Pro-Am, I think I hit gap wedge or something. 
DOUG TEWELL:  I think I got at least a 5-iron in the green.
GIL MORGAN:   I had like 170 and someone was telling me that he had 170 to the front.  That played pretty good.
The second hole played about the same to me.  The third hole was a three-shot hole. 
Then 4, we had about a little over 160 yards and I hit 5-iron there. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
DOUG TEWELL:  Actually we're planning to go look at the classic car collection, a group of us, we're trying to coordinate that and head home, all of the car buffs, and they will come over to the house.  I told my wife, I said everything's done at 7:30, rounding out by 8:30 and clear the house.  We're going to bed early.  It's going to be a long day tomorrow. 
GIL MORGAN:   It will be. 
DOUG TEWELL:  Well, if you get a little tired tomorrow, you have the cart; you can jump in and ride a couple of holes.
GIL MORGAN:   If you don't have the rain to deal with, I think it's a lot easier.  The wet and cold, everything you do, it intensifies the coldness that you're feeling at that point in time.  You can't get your hands dry; the wind is blowing off.  You just get colder quicker and stay cooler longer, and then you are soft and wet.  Kind of a vicious cycle when it's wet. 






End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT