SENIOR TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
October 27, 2001
Gil Morgan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GIL MORGAN:  Obviously I didn't play very well today.  I just kind of got off to not a real great start and I didn't hit with very good speed putting; especially the first nine holes.  Then back nine I got my speed a little bit better.  Then I couldn't get it all  -- I had kind of a poor putting day if you want to call it that.  Nothing really terrible, I just didn't make any  -- chipped in once and I think I 2-putted the last hole from about twelve feet or so.  That's about it as far as birdies are concerned.  But I made a couple of bogeys.  One at the 3rd hole, I hit a bad drive and then a bad second shot and third shot wasn't much better.  And made a short chip and missed my putt there at the 3rd hole.  
 
GIL MORGAN:  Probably twelve feet, probably.  I hit it in the left rough.  It was pretty deep.  I tried to hit 8-iron out, and it kind of squirted out to the right went over into the rough again.  Lie wasn't too bad except I had a big glob of rough in front of me that stood up for about 3, four inches.  I think what happened was trajectory -- I tried to hit 6-iron.  I had about 165 yards or so, and I think with the trajectory it kind of killed the ball as it came out, only went about 155 yards or so.  It was kind of on the up-slope of the bunker, pitched up there short, couldn't get enough on it uphill. Bogey there.  Then I was fortunate enough to pitch in on the 8th hole, hit it right of the green, just off the green about five feet.  I pitched in with a sand wedge there. On the back nine, just kind of played around.  I felt like the par 5s weren't very kind to me today.  I had 7-iron to 6 -- sorry -- I had 6-iron to 6, and then hit it in the bunker; couldn't get that up-and-down.  Then at 14 I had 7-iron and it landed a little bit short of the green bounced rolled way over the back, I made kind of a poor pitch about ten feet by the hole, missed that.  The bogey at the 3rd hole which was the worst part of it, and then the last hole I had  -- 8-iron to the last hole and made that one.  Other bogey I made was at 15, I hit 7-iron I think it was 190 something yards.  I looped it a little bit and it got over the back of the green.  Once it gets over there it's death pretty much so I tried to run it up there with one of the fairway woods but I ran it too far, missed the putt, so bogey at that hole.  I had a couple of opportunities.  Pretty good opportunity at 17; didn't have a bad opportunity at 16 missed both of us.  Had a pretty good putt at it at 13 and missed.  So I just -- I didn't have a very good putting day, didn't have a  -- I had a pretty good shot at 10, 10, 11, 12, all those weren't  -- I should say 10 and 12, 11 it kind of rolled back down the hill.  I didn't have a very good opportunity, but I'd say basically I just had not a very good putting round.  I don't know whether I just put it in the wrong spots or didn't read the greens very effectively but that was it in a nutshell.  
 
Q.  How were the conditions today compared to yesterday?  I know you had some wind, but  -- night and day or  --
 
GIL MORGAN: It wasn't -- first of all, first time I guess we have seen it with a southwind  since maybe early in the week maybe, I don't know.  Yesterday obviously was as good a day as we can get probably around here as far as the wind is concerned.  Temperature was pretty good too.  Today was a little cooler with the wind chill factor from the wind a little bit.  It wasn't that bad today.  I don't know, I just myself I didn't seem to  -- I was talking to TK.  He didn't do very well either.  We kind of just lulled ourselves into doldrum here I guess as we went around.  But it wasn't-didn't seem that hard today.  The rough first  -- some of the par 4s played a little bit harder going back into the wind from the south but at the same time the par 5s should play easier.  I think  -- I didn't get much out of the par 5s.  That was a big negative for me today for starters and then I didn't really make any birdies.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible)
 ?
GIL MORGAN: I would think worst the condition would be the better chance you might have picking up some ground on Bruce, Bob is in there too really.  That might be the most advantageous thing for me at this point in time.  
 
Q.  Your thoughts on Bruce?  Is it aggravating to you that a guy can hit 3 practice balls twice a year and does what he does?
 
GIL MORGAN: Well, he has been a pretty good player for a long, long time.  He's not  -- you wouldn't think that  -- this is not his first game, you know, so he does a good job.  He doesn't try to do anything specific.  He's mostly looking for a barbecue tonight.  He found it?  Where are you going to go?  He putts pretty good.  Maybe that long putter tomorrow in that wind will wear him out a little bit more.  Maybe we'll have a chance.  But I think your first year out here you are a little bit more excited about playing.  It's a little bit new to you.  You have confidence going in.  You have had some a lot of success when you get here, so all of those things help you play better I think in the long-term.  We anticipated Bruce doing well when he first got here.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible)
 
GIL MORGAN: Unfortunately I got way too many, I don't know.  I hear our quarterbacks weren't doing too good today.  They both got hurt from what I understand.  But anyway, obviously I was pulling for them and I was trying to figure out what was happening out there, but all my news after you know, first few holes or something was all pretty negative after they got to 10-10 at the half.  Then it was  -- 
 
Q.  Where were you  when you found the score (inaudible)
 
GIL MORGAN: Oh, about maybe 16.  I think 16th fairway.  
 
Q.  What did you do on the next shot?
 
GIL MORGAN: I hit it in there about 15, 18 feet.  With a 4-iron.  I thought the hole played hard.  I had to hit 4-iron in there. Bruce probably hit 7-iron going in.  But did you birdie that hole?  I heard them clap.  I didn't see -- I knew it was pretty close:  That hole played pretty long back into the wind.  Good thing there's not a whole lot of bunkers around.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT