SENIOR TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
October 26, 2001
Gil Morgan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








GIL MORGAN:  Well, obviously this is a fantastic day to play.  The course is probably as vulnerable as it could be.  Given that there wasn't any wind or anything today.  Temperature was pretty good.  Started out a little cool early, but it warmed up nicely.  I think everybody really enjoyed the weather today probably. Course played  -- I don't have much experience on the golf course but it did play, I'd say, pretty basic.  Par 5s were somewhat reachable most of the time, even the longer par 4s didn't seem to play all that tough.  Hit a few longer shots in there, but overall I thought the golf course played probably as easy as it's going to play.  Pin positions were kind of the same way.  Greens didn't -- they seemed  a little bit firmer today than they did yesterday, but, start out bouncing once; then kind of stopping.  So overall I thought the greens played pretty good. 

GIL MORGAN: I think I hit 3-wood off the tee there, kind of a short hole, I think I hit a pitching wedge in there about twelve feet right of the hole or so, made that one.  Par 5 next, I hit driver, 3-iron on the left side of the green, had about 220, 208 to the front, just kind of keep it away from the creek mostly, and still have a chance to put it on the surface.  I put it on the left side of the green, 2-putted.  Putted there about from about 40 feet, I guess I put it down there about a foot or so.  I made that one.  Couple of pars.  6th hole par 5 good drive down the middle, wind has been into our face there, so I hadn't been able to get there.  But I had like 231 to the front, hit 4-wood, it's 17 degree 5-wood is what it is, and it landed over the bunker.  I really kind of surprised   -- it stopped, kicked left, didn't go very far after it hit, and then it was kind just off the fringe about 25 feet, I guess, I made that one.  Parred 7.  8, had a couple of chances I guess in there, but   ---  9 we both hit 8-iron.  He hit it in there, looked like four feet probably.  I was lucky enough to hit it in there about five feet, made that one with an 8-iron.  Went to 10, (inaudible) I hit a driver kind of debated on whether to hit driver or 3-wood.  I hit driver, pulled it into the left rough.  Had like 175 to the front.  So didn't have much chance to get  -- since the front of that green is going up in the fairway is pretty slopey I didn't even think I could get it up there, if I hit a club that could get to the surface.  So just pulled 7, knocked it down there just a little short of the green, then chipped it up to about five feet by, made that for par.  Played pretty much pretty standard.  I guess I missed the green at 15 to the right par 3, 5-iron there and chipped it, hit the pin just trying -- dropped off about an inch or two, then 16 missed the green.  I just didn't want to get -- it was pretty flat around there so I wasn't real concerned about missing the green too much to the right as long as I wasn't way out of synch.  At 17 I hit 4-wood off the tee and then I hit a pitching wedge in there about five feet, made that.  Last hole I didn't never know how to play that last hole.  It's kind of a goofy hole from the standpoint of knowing exactly what to hit off the tee.  Yesterday I hit driver there into the wind and I was lucky enough.  It missed that little rough that sticks out.  I went over to the left and then today I decided to hit 3-wood hoping that I could keep it short of that.  It still ran into that rough. I tried to hit 8-iron and it was a big flier really out of that stuff.  I had 180 yards to that -- the last fairway bunker on the left part of the green.  It went up just past it, almost with an 8-iron so it went a long ways.  I told my caddie I said I guess we should have hit 7-iron (inaudible) then I made kind of a goofy chip and putted it had about 30 feet, 2-putted for 5 for 66.  Pretty boring day. 

Q.  Have you played out here much?

GIL MORGAN: I had not.  I played twice before.  We came here for practice rounds and then I played a few holes on Monday and then I played nine holes on Tuesday, I think, played 11 holes on Tuesday and then I played the pro-am.  That wasn't much of an information gathering ground, but with the wind and everything, it was all right.  Then yesterday kind of the first really official type play here.

Q.  Do you live -- how far do you live from here?

GIL MORGAN: I am about 15 from right here.  It's about 20 minutes a little over somewhere around that.  Depends on whether you want to get picked up.  A lot of stop signs, every mile is a stop sign. 

Q.  You hadn't come up here in the past?

GIL MORGAN: I hadn't really.  We came out here one day with the Tour officials and hit some balls for him to try to figure out what tees to play but we really didn't play that day.  We just hit some tee shots mostly and then I came and played twice.  Our Tour Champion Tome came out here and played one day.  Then I played out here with Calvin Samson (phonetic) who is a basketball coach (inaudible) we played one day, Dave Maloney.  Then that's all  -- came out and looked at the greens one day.  That's only time I have been out here.  I was about as unfamiliar as anybody with the course.  Most of the time we play it's moving pretty good out of the south.  We had northwinds almost every day. Even a little bit today but whatever was there it looked like out of north, northeast. 

Q.  On 18 you said that you saw it go left today.  Did you go left on Thursday with the north wind?

GIL MORGAN: I went left also with the driver there that day then I hit something down there, like I think I hit a 7-iron laid up, hit a little wedge in there.  Fortunately I was in the fairway yesterday.  Against the wind.  I don't know, I was watching Fleisher ahead of them.  Fleisher went to the right.  Then he and his caddie was wanting it to go to the right. And he kept going no, no (inaudible).

Q.  Playing near home can backfire either with distractions or pressure, whatever, have you been able to block all that out?  Do you know where you are at?

GIL MORGAN: I think starting yesterday I was a little tentative starting and then 3-putt the first hole and then kind of after that I kind of settled down.  Today I was a little -- I felt a lot more at ease today because I had a little bit of a feeling of the golf course.  I kept thinking the golf course was going to play really hard the way the wind was blowing and everything.  As deep as the rough was I think some of the cool nights that we have had here has kind of knocked the rough down a little bit at times in some places, so I have gotten a few better lies than I did the couple of times that I played before here when it was still green, it was very difficult.  So I kept thinking it was going to be really tough.  You have a chance and like he hit it out into the deep stuff yesterday and he made a par and bogey.  (Inaudible) but I think I  kind of gotten over, I don't know, maybe Sunday might come back, but I feel a lot better about it right now than I did starting the tournament. 

Q.  We were asking some of the other guys earlier in the week, can you just give a real brief assessment of your season?

GIL MORGAN: I think overall I am not real disappointed with my season.  I don't think I have gotten as much out of it as I should have.  I lost a playoff early.  I have had about three, two or three, four seconds, I can't remember exactly how many I have had.  I haven't played as well in a couple of situations as I'd like to coming down the stretch a couple of tournaments, but -- and then here at the end of the year I don't feel like I played quite as well as I should.  I kind of got where I was driving the ball not as consistent as I had been earlier in the season and then some of my iron shots weren't quite as good.  My putting was down.  I didn't feel like my play was up to the  standards that I'd like to see it.   But other than that, I feel like I have played fairly decent this year.  I have missed, I think missing the PGA Championship with an injury was kind of a big (inaudible) for the year.  You don't have many opportunities to play in those major tournaments.  Each year you play your chances get less and less, you kind of feel like they are running away from me a little bit.

Q.  Injury?

GIL MORGAN: I hurt my back.  I went all the way up there and then couldn't play.   I was out on the practice tee when it kind of went out.  It was pretty traumatic.  My whole family was there, packed them up and headed out. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT