U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 29, 2001
Gil Morgan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








GIL MORGAN:  Well, I think today I played, from my standpoint, I played a lot more consistently than I did yesterday. I drove the ball a little better.  I didn't drive it very far at times, but it seemed like I got the ball in play a lot more.  Obviously, the conditions today were a lot better than yesterday with the wind we had yesterday afternoon, it made it a lot probably more difficult to control your golf ball.  But today it looked like a good opportunity to really try to score as well as you could.  And I really didn't take advantage of that too well.  I only made two birdies and two bogeys.  But at the same time I played pretty consistently tee to green most of the time.  I hit a couple of foul balls and was able to get away with at least bogeys at those two holes.  I had a few opportunities.  I didn't really get the ball as close to the hole as I'd like.  I'd still think the pin placements were -- should we dock him?  25 percent of his salary today. I really didn't have a chance to get the ball or at least I didn't get the ball as close to the hole as I'd like to, and therefore the puts were still a little bit too far away to have very good chances to make birdies.  I don't know, it seemed like the greens situations maybe from where I played from, there for a while I had a hard time getting the ball to the hole.  Maybe they looked faster than they were. Overall the greens were probably a little bit softer at times than they were yesterday, but they still were a little bouncy.  The pin placements were very good.  I thought they were very tough on a lot of the holes.  They still seem to like the corners of these greens really well. Other than that, I think our whole group played pretty well.  That kind of kept us going.  Kite shot 70.  He kind of had an up and down round.  Bob Gilder shot I think 69.  We all played fairly decent at the end point at least.  That's about all I know.

GIL MORGAN:  You're going to make it easy.

Q.  You said you left some opportunities out there.  Any holes in particular that you felt maybe you should have scored a little better?

GIL MORGAN:  I can't remember what holes they were.  Let's see, maybe 10 -- maybe the 4th hole or something like that. 4th hole I had a putt that if I just hit it a little bit harder, it would have gone right in the middle it looked like.  I left a couple of them short. Other than that I hit some good putts, but they didn't have quite the right speed on them.  So I got beat up from that. I kind of let the second par-5, the par-5 on the front get away from me.  I hit a bad second shot and put it in the rough where I had a tough deal.  That was a hole that I thought you might be able to have a good chance to get close to the green and chip up there and make a birdie. All in all I think the morning round was a situation where, with the way the conditions were, it might have been more receptive  to lower scores than what I saw out there today.  I don't know exactly why.  The pin placements were tough.  But at least I kept it out of the rough most of the time.  I had a couple that I didn't like, and was able to salvage a couple when I missed them.  But other than that, I don't know.


Q.  When it comes to your back, when do you know if it's okay to go?  Is it in the morning, at the driving range, at the first tee?

GIL MORGAN:  Well, it's something that can happen at any time.  When I was at the PGA a few weeks ago, I kind of hurt it the day before a little bit.  But I got up in the morning, it felt pretty good.  I got out there, I hit some wedges and 9-irons, and it felt all right.  I tried to hit a 6-iron and all of a sudden it just went. It's kind of scary.  It can go at any point in time and I wouldn't be able to participate.  That's one of the things that's kind of bothering me right here.  The uncertainty of what's happening with that situation right now. It seems like I got up this morning and it felt pretty good.  And then I got on the range when I started hitting balls and it felt a little funny.  So I kind of eased into it. About the second hole I hit a couple of shots and it didn't feel just right.  But I kept going, and it seemed to calm down a little bit.  I don't know.  I just have to play it by ear, I guess.

Q.  Are you wearing a brace?

GIL MORGAN:  Yeah.  Kind of like a support belt right now. I think I need stays, steel.

Q.  Along those lines, do you ever take practice swings if your back feels okay, or you just do it as you did today, which is address the ball and then hit the ball?

GIL MORGAN:  I don't know, for some reason I just don't take very many practice swings.  Every once in a while in certain situations, certain shot types, I'm trying to rehearse some sort of angle that I'm trying to create with the shot.  I'll take a practice swing or two.  But in chipping I do a lot.  But just normal play I don't take too many practice swings really.

GIL MORGAN:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT