U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 10, 2014
Gil Morgan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Dr. Gil Morgan.GIL MORGAN: Hi, guys.  How is everybody? I didn't feel like I beat too many people today.  I don't know.  I thought it was a hard day.  Started out really calm and hot and humid and then kind of turned kind of blustery with the wind out of the east.  That's a little unusual for here somewhat, southeast, maybe, I don't know. But, you know, I tried hard.  I think it's harder when you're here, you know, and you know there's a lot of bad places out there that you don't want to be but -- and, I don't know, the pressure of just trying to play well. I'm kind of at the end of it somewhat, you know, and so kind of be the last time I'm going to play in any type of probably Major championship, at least at this site for sure, and you got a lot of fans and friends that are rooting you on and you hate to disappoint them so you try hard and just hope for the best. I actually played fairly decent I guess.  I guess I had two, three kind of foul balls but -- and I had three, four putts if I could just hit it a little harder I would have made them. I was a little spooky on the greens starting out especially, so -- but, anyway, it was a fun day.  It was kind of psychologically tough, I think, but other than that --Q. Bob mentioned the reason you guys stay here and the reason you love it here.  Can you talk about that just for a second, about --GIL MORGAN: They've been so nice to us over the years, you know, starting out with Landmark and Joe and Ernie and then when Dan Mathis had it and now Ed and Everett have it.  Kind of in the ballgame. They've treated us very special from that standpoint.  You know, helped us with lots early on.  We built out here and did that type of thing.  They were very good with us about clothing and some representing the club early on and they just been overly nice to all the Tour players and enjoyed -- kind of enjoyed having them around so it was, you know, a nice place for us to live, very convenient to play and practice. You know, there's not a whole lot of people, you don't have to fight tee times and that type of thing.  You can kind of go around and play on the golf course like you would like.  If you run into a group you can jump -- jockey around, nobody is going to say hey, you can't do that, that type of thing.  It's been fun and we're very appreciative of all they've done for us through the years. So, it's a very challenging golf course.  It helps your game when you're home to have the difficulty that it has here.  When you go back on Tour sometimes it seems a little bit more open or a little not so demanding into the greens, that type of scenario.  It's fun.Q. Gill, can you appreciate Colin's round, 65.  Did he take advantage of the early conditions not being as blustery as you called him?GIL MORGAN: I heard it was cool early.  I don't know what time he played.  I heard it was cool and a little bit windy early and then it flipped into a hot and no wind and then it went back to wind again. So, I think the green situation was probably a little better early.  They golf tournament a little -- they looked a little "growthy" to me out there, little more treacherous as the day went on even though they were still holding well. They didn't look like the first couple of days here in the practice round, they looked fantastic.  Today looked like they had been stressed, I don't know from the heat maybe the last couple of days.  So, I don't know. You know, he had a great round.  It was nice.  I think, you know, if I would have -- I made a couple of saves but I probably left about four putts I'd say.  I probably should have shot a couple under par today.  It would have been kind of an average, decent round if I would have taken advantage of everything and still not -- I made a couple of bogies, two, three bogies. So, I can't be too upset with it, really.  I was upset, I bogeyed last hole which really kind of -- it's kind of like hot poker in your eye when you bogey the last hole every day, you don't have a very good feeling for it at that point in time.  All right.  Thank you


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT