U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 28, 2001
Gil Morgan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  (Inaudible.)

GIL MORGAN:  Well, thanks, Tom.  I think it was pretty tough out there, especially the short pins like you're talking about.  Some of the holes, if you landed it short, it stopped.  And so, because of the upslopes, a lot of times it was difficult to hit the ball, to run up those slopes.  And then if you landed on the green it released on back.  I think the pins were pretty tough.  Plus, the wind swirling around a little bit made it difficult to get the ball the right distance.  The Tom Kite on the last hole, we were all hitting 9-irons in there, but if you miss on the front, on the short side in the rough, then you've got a lot of trouble.

Q.  You played 9 on Tuesday, 9 on Wednesday, you weren't sure how your back would hold up when you hit the rough, and you only hit 9 fairways.

GIL MORGAN:  I didn't drive it very well.  I think I was a little tentative in the Open here.  I didn't drive it quite as well.  I had more shots out of the rough than I wanted, at least for any round in this tournament.  But I'd say I salvaged a couple of them and made some bogeys out of some of them.

Q.  Are you pretty happy with the course?

GIL MORGAN:  In some respects, like a couple of holes I felt like I missed a couple of opportunities.  And I made a couple where I shouldn't have, so it probably balanced out today.

Q.  Does it surprise you at all to see the scoring, it even leaves you one shot back of the only guy who got under par today. Does that surprise you at all?

GIL MORGAN:  I thought the golf course, just looking at it the little that I did, the rough is so soft that the ball goes right to the bottom almost every time.  It's very difficult to make that come out, especially on the longer holes.  With the pin placements, I thought it was very difficult to get the ball really close to the pin.  Even if you did, you never had it in the right spot sometimes.  Just the way the greens were undulated, you had some pretty tough pins out there today.

Q.  Reach back in your memory.  You played Opens for a lot of years.  Has there ever been one score in your memory, one score under par?

GIL MORGAN:  I can't think of any offhand.  I was thinking about that earlier, that there's just one guy under par, kind of unusual, like you say.  It seems like maybe somewhere back there, there might have been something that was close to that, but I can't recall what it was.

Q.  Was the course fair in your estimation?  Nobody has really said that anything is unfair.  Is it fair?

GIL MORGAN:  You expect it to be tough.  I just didn't play as well as I'd like today.  As far as hitting the ball off the tee. Other than that I played pretty good.  The greens are a little bit crusty in the afternoon, that may be afternoon timing.  Other than that it was pretty straightforward.

Q.  Does this bode well for you that you've missed that many fairways and still scored that well?  You can't be expected to miss that many again.

GIL MORGAN:  I hope I drive it a little better tomorrow. Maybe I will.  You never know.  I was a little tentative at times. I think the wind, left-to-right, right-to-left, that type of deal, it's hard to get a feel for it on the tee sometimes.  I didn't hit  the ball as solidly as I like off the tee, too.  Both of those combined made it tough for me.

Q.  Can you talk about the birdie on 17th from the rough?

GIL MORGAN:  I Was pretty fortunate there.  I missed the fairway.  I tried to hit a 6-iron.  I ran it short, ran it right by the pin and ran over the green.  I was about three feet over the green.  I just chipped it.  It was going too fast really.  It hit the pin and just dropped.  It was pretty fortunate, really.  I would probably have been 8, 10 feet by really is what it looked like to me.

Q.  Thank you.

GIL MORGAN:  Okay.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT