U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 8, 1999
Gil Morgan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GIL MORGAN:  Well, I played, I guess, pretty consistently overall.  It was a situation where the wind was kind of a factor this afternoon; some of the pin placements were a little tough and just tried to keep it in play as much as possible even though you are going to make a few mistakes.  I was able to make a few birdies and I made mistakes.  That was good for the day.  It wasn't too bad.  Seemed to be probably a little drier than they were early on, but the wind kept drying them.  I think it got drier as it went forward.  18th green is a lot faster than a lot of them.  Seemed like it had a lot more speed than the rest of them.  I had some opportunities first four, five holes only made -- I don't think I had it outside ten feet; only made one of them.  I had some great opportunities the first few holes; let them get away.  Then I made a couple of bogeys, bogeyed 10 and 18 with four birdies thrown in there. 
 
GIL MORGAN:  (regarding 3-putts) So far I have been lucky. 
 
GIL MORGAN:  Early on, like I said, I got the ball very close to the hole; didn't have too many difficult putts.  I couldn't get the speed going.  Starting out I was little tentative, I guess, maybe with my putting early on and I just couldn't quite get them to the hole.  Then I had a couple of hard putts; made a couple of good putts on the long greens, but 17 I 2-putted.  That was a good one for me. 
 
GIL MORGAN:  Coming in here playing very decent last few weeks; had some good tournaments.  I kept the ball pretty much in an area where I could play it most of the time today, so I didn't  -- I got the ball up-and-down one time I think on the 6th hole; made about a 15-footer for par. 
 
GIL MORGAN:  I have to wait until tomorrow to see. It is a hard one to tell depends what the weather does.  Obviously greens ought to be a little softer, a little better; maybe a little smoother putting surface; if you can get the ball close you would have a better chance.

      
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT