ENERGIZER SENIOR TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 6, 1998
Gil Morgan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GIL MORGAN: You mean I was out? 
 
GIL MORGAN: Yeah, I did pick up a little bit of ground, I guess.  Yesterday I was -- what, I was four shots back.  Now I'm what, two shots back? 
 
GIL MORGAN: I didn't pick up much.  I didn't realize he got in at 7.  I should have known it.  I'll play harder -- maybe I'll play harder tomorrow.  I think it was very similar days, overall, weatherwise.  It might have been a little bit warmer today, overall.  But the breeze was still a factor. Golf course is still -- still kind of tough.  I think if you do the right things, you know, get the ball in the right spot and not get it too out of kilter that it's a golf course where you can play pretty well most of the time.  But as you can see by maybe what Hale did today a little bit, that some days it's real receptive.  And if you're not in the right spot, you get beat up a little bit.  So two days left to go.  I think I've still got a chance to do well.  It depends on what happens. But I think I'm in a fairly decent position at this point in time, considering how, you know, all the bogeys and all the mistakes I made.  If I can eliminate that and go forward here, I feel like I've got a good chance. 
 
GIL MORGAN: Bogeyed the 2nd hole.  And then birdied the par 5.  I hit a 4-wood on the green and 2-putted from the back fringe. 
 
GIL MORGAN: Oh, it was about 45 feet, I guess. 
 
GIL MORGAN: I hit the trees.  I turned around the corner and it hit the trees and dropped off in the fairway.  I hit a pretty good 3-iron.  I couldn't really see it coming down.  But my caddy said it hit kind of on the edge of the bunker.  It was kind of a low trajectory shot, and bounced it along and missed the putt by 12 feet.  And I turned around and put it in on front of the green at 5, and 3-putted from about,  oh, 60 feet, I guess.  Parred the rest of the round until I got to 11, and I hit a driver.  And then a 6-iron about 18 feet behind the hole and made that.  Parred 12.  13, I hit a driver, 3-wood pitching wedge to about an inch, half inch, and made that.  I had to look at it both times.  And then the next hole I hit a driver, 6-iron, and made about a 20-footer for a birdie there and parred.  There's not much to it. 
 

Q.  You still trying to find the sharp, competitive edge after last week?  You had it for a good while last week, and then all of the sudden you made some mistakes Sunday.
 
GIL MORGAN: It's a little bit anti-climatic coming in here, since I had a chance to win last week and didn't do it, kind of took away any steam that I had, to some degree, to -- you know, if I could have won both of these tournaments, it could have been great.  It might have been a consideration for Player Of The Year.  But since I messed up last week, I had a hard time kind of staying really focused this week, obviously, trying to play well.  But I didn't have the same -- being as it would, if I'd won last week. 
 

Q.  But if you win, you have seven compared to his six and two majors.  Do you think you have any consideration for Player Of The Year if you win?
 
GIL MORGAN: I think there's an outside chance.  But he's got all of the statistical categories lined up:  Money -- landslide -- I don't know, maybe, outside.  Outside, outside, outside.  Triple outside. 
 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
GIL MORGAN: I'm going to have to bring a box of Kleenex, I guess, just to keep the tears.  But, I don't know, I thought it might have been -- I thought it might have been a chance there for awhile.  I had a couple chances coming down the stretch to make a birdie, but I just didn't.  So he'll have to struggle along without me, I guess. 
 

Q.  Is this a tournament where 6- or 7-under could win it?  Or 8- or 9-under?
 
GIL MORGAN: Hopefully the weather will get better the next couple of days so we might have a chance to shoot a little lower.  But with the pressure, I don't think it's going to get a lot lower.  I think it can get maybe to double digits maybe, but it just kind of depends. 
 

Q.  If it gets warmer tomorrow --
 
GIL MORGAN: I doubt it.  But at least it will be nicer to play.  Everybody will like it a lot better. 
 
GIL MORGAN: Thank you. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT