FORD SENIOR PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 1998
Gil Morgan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GIL MORGAN:  Okay.  What do you want to know?  What do you want to know?  You want to know how it went out there?  Well, Hale has already told you.  He probably told all of you already.  So just "Ditto."  Well, for me, of course, Hale birdied the first two holes, kind of get us back to level and I think we both birdied the third hole.  I happen to hit a driver and 3-iron in the bunker and then blasted it out about eight feet, made that. 
 
GIL MORGAN:  At 7, I hit, let's see, Hale knocked it on in 2.  And 2-putted and then I hit like a driver, 4-wood and then I had about a 40-yard pitch, I guess.  I pitched it up there probably ten feet by maybe and made that coming back for 4.  9, we both made birdie there, I believe.  I hit driver and then 9-iron about 15 feet, made that.  Short left of the hole.  Wasn't a real hard putt, but seemed like none of them are hard when they go in, but when you miss them, they are all pretty tough.  We went to the backside, I hit -- let's see, we birdied the par 5; is that right? 
 
GIL MORGAN:  At 10, I hit fairway bunker and blasted it out on the green about 15 feet, 2-putt that.  We both played the next hole pretty much the same and then the par 3 pretty much the same.  And then at 13, let's see, I hit a driver and 4-wood on the back left fringe and I tried to run it with a 3-iron and I didn't hit it real solid.  And it kind of -- as it was going up, had to go up over the hill and back to the right and it kind of caught the edge of the fringe and scooted off to the right about, oh, probably about ten feet short of the hole, 10 or 11 feet.  I made that for one 4.  At 16, Hale and I both bogeyed that hole.  Hale hit it left and missed the green and chipped way by and myself, I had a pretty easy shot, I thought.  I had about 135 yards.  I tried to kind of push the 9-iron, little bit extended, a little bit, and I hit it thin.  Landed in the back slope and went up on the back of the green and I putted it by about maybe, about six feet or so, seven feet.  Then missed that coming back.  And then at the last hole, we both birdied there.  I hit -- I think we both hit 3-wood, 7-irons in there about,  Hale was about eight, nine, ten feet something like that.  I was about seven or eight feet, I guess.  That was the end of it.  Es todo.  Write that down, es Toto.  Toto is the dog -- 
 

Q.  Hale talked a little bit about feeding off of how well you were doing.  Was that a mutual thing?
 
GIL MORGAN:  I think we both played very consistent today most of the time.  He had a little bit more trouble the last couple of holes than I did.  But, I think that is about the only difference.  He made a couple of birdies early, got ahead, got back to level, where I started.  And, I mean, for me, I just felt like I hit it close enough to the hole today to make three or four more and I just couldn't make the putts go in.  It was kind of like -- I putted kind of like I did the first day; just didn't hit it that close to the hole like yesterday.  I hit it so close to the hole I hardly could miss, inside three, four, five feet, four or five times.  Today I didn't hit it hardly any of that close, but I had chances at -- 5, I had a good chance, missed it. 
 
GIL MORGAN:  That was probably eight feet.  Another one I can think of at, let's see, I had a pretty good chance at 17.  Only hit it about twelve feet, maybe. 
 

Q.  How about 4?  Wasn't 4 a realistic possibility?
 
GIL MORGAN:  Yeah, 4, went past the hole, but it was only about inside probably 15 feet, it was an opportunity again.  And seemed like there was another one there.  Can't think of where it was.  10, I had about 15-footer.  12, I had pretty good chance at it.  15, I hit it in there about six or seven feet behind the hole, missed that.  So I had some opportunities, just didn't quite pan out.  But that is the way golf is.  Some days you make them and some days you don't. 
 

Q.  Murphy was the obvious exception, but a lot of leaders, a lot of the names on the leaderboard had trouble keeping their momentum on the back.  Was there a reason for that?
 
GIL MORGAN:  This is a pretty -- I mean, it is not just a terribly difficult golf course, but if you start missing the ball in the wrong spots, you have got a lot of trouble.  I mean, you can make some really big numbers.  I saw that Jack made a big number out there.  I don't know how he did.  But, if you miss the wrong ball in the wrong direction at the wrong time, you are looking at double really quick.  Like 17th hole, it can bite you.  14 is really a tough hole.  There is a lot of holes out there, 11 and 12 both are very difficult holes if you don't have the ball coming down the right distance and direction out here.  A lot of golf courses we play, you can be off one or the other and not get hurt too badly.  But here, some of these golf courses you have to have distance and direction pretty precisely. 
 

Q.  The symbolism of the water guns in the first tee playfulness with Hale, is that kind of like stand-ins for the rivalry that you are supposed to be having?
 
GIL MORGAN:  Yeah, that is pretty close.  You hit it pretty much on the head.  Don't shoot that.  (Hale shooting gun at Gil in press room).  He is still pretty active out there. You better watch him. 
 

Q.  So much symbolism, you have got the white hat and he has got the black hat.
 
GIL MORGAN:  I like that.  Don't say, Michael will pick up on that real quick. 
 

Q.  I will read the transcript.
 
GIL MORGAN:  Don't put that in there so he can't see it.  Scratch it.  We don't want him getting any information. 
 

Q.  How did you decide to do the water guns?  What is that all about?
 
GIL MORGAN:  Oh, like what you are talking about, we are supposed to be really feuding here and really a big rivalry going on and enemies, sincere enemies, so, that is about it. 
 

Q.  Sort of like a mutually agreed idea between the two of you to go with the water guns?
 
GIL MORGAN:  Yeah.  Pretty much.  They just mysteriously appeared in our locker.  I don't know how that happened. 
 

Q.  You say you shot each other on the first tee, right?
 
GIL MORGAN:  Yes. 
 

Q.  What did the people do?
 
GIL MORGAN:  They all had a good time, I think. They were laughing and some of them were hollering:  Shoot me, shoot me.  I remember at Southern Hills one year it was so hot, the PGA, they were sprinkling greens in between and all the people in the bleechers said:  Please, squirt -- they turned the hose on them.  It was pretty exciting. 
 

Q.  Are you planning on taking that out tomorrow in case Murph gets hot again?
 
GIL MORGAN:  Yeah, we might. 
 

Q.  Cool him off a little bit.
 
GIL MORGAN:  Hale and I both can cool him right down.  We will shoot his legs out from the ground.  He will be dancing. 
 

Q.  You might give Murph some ideas.
 
GIL MORGAN:  He might bring his own.  He would have one of these big canons about four feet long, seven gallons of water. 
 
GIL MORGAN:  Thank you very much. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT