ENERGIZER SENIOR TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 8, 1997
Gil Morgan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








GIL MORGAN:  Thank you.

GIL MORGAN:  I like the way you said that.

GIL MORGAN:  I don't know - just how I would put it.  I played pretty well overall today, I think, pretty solid tee-to-green.  I didn't putt quite as well as I'd like.  I felt like there were a few putts that I had the opportunity to make that I kind of let get away from me.  But, kind of like golf, I guess, I don't know.  But, overall, I was pretty well pleased because 6-under again today.  That was kind of a good round when I really needed one right now.  Hale played awfully well and so I knew that I got -- had to step up a little bit and try to play as well as I could.  I didn't never ever really know what was happening as far as what was the outcome was going to be.  I just piddled around out there and tried to play as well as I could; be aggressive at times; be conservative at times, depending on what the demand was.

GIL MORGAN:  1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 - straight-a-way.

GIL MORGAN:  That's a good place to start.  2nd hole, hit 3-wood off the tee and hit a 6-iron in there about eight feet or so - I don't know - I can't even remember, tell you the truth, but I made it.  And, I think Hale made his first.  He made one outside me, then I sneaked it in there.  And, then I had pretty good birdie putt at 4, knocked it over the water at the par 5 in 2 and to the left, though, I was kind of a little bit out of kilter there and pitched it up on the green about 12 feet or so and missed that.  And, then the par 3, hit another good shot in there at the par 3, at 5, and then missed that putt from about -- it was probably six feet or so.  Then my next birdie was at 8.  I hit a driver, 3-wood in the bunker, and then I blasted out about 15 feet, made that.  Then at 9, hit 5-iron about maybe ten feet or so, eight feet, something like that, made that.  And, then at 10, I hit a little driver off to the left.  Hit 8-iron in there about, oh, about four, five feet, I  guess; made that.  And then at 11, I hit driver, 7-iron and made about a 15-footer for birdie at 11.  Missed one at 12.  Wait a minute.  10, 11, 12 -- 12 was a par 3.  Hit a good shot in there, in there about six feet; missed that.  Then at 13, I missed another one from about -- hit a little wedge in there, landed about six feet from the hole backed up.  I had probably about a 12-footer, missed that one.  And then at 16, I hit the flag with my third shot; bounced off about twelve feet, missed that.  And then at 16, I hit a 4-wood, pitching wedge about four feet, made that one. And then off the fringe at 17 - and then I don't know what -- I -- I had a good shot in there.  I don't know what happened, the yardage just didn't work right for me.  I hit 8-iron from about 142 yards and it landed in the slope and backed away up and I left it about six feet short; made that for par.


Q.  How is the course playing, any easier?

GIL MORGAN:  Easier?  I don't think it is playing any easier. I don't really have much experience with the golf course, so -- except for 25 years ago.


Q.  How many times have you played it?

GIL MORGAN:  First year playing the Championship.  So I have played four rounds now, four and a half rounds, maybe. I don't really know what to anticipate from previous years.  I know it was very cold weather, was very tough last couple of years; especially two years ago they said, but it is prett -- greens were pretty tough in places.  Seems like the pins were very difficult today.  A lot of them right in the corners and stuff so it was pretty exciting putting; especially like the 7th hole, I was -- that pin was -- Hale hit on the front.  He knocked it all way to the back fringe so, it kept sneaking down there and Bob Duval was over the green; chipped it and it rolled and rolled about ten feet down that way.  So, it was -- I thought that was an extremely tough, tough pin placement there.


Q.  Do you think this is what the season ending Championship ought to come down to, the top two players on TOUR all year?

GIL MORGAN:  Not necessarily.  But, you know, I mean it is nice that it is happening this way this year, at least, but I know Hale will be happy.  Both of us, really.  But at the same time, you know, it is a tough situation, you know, as far as four days, greens should be fairly quick and ought to be demanding, so, I mean, that is kind of what it is all about.


Q.  Is this as good as you have played all year?

GIL MORGAN:  Well, I don't know.  I may have played better at The Tradition as far as control of the ball and stuff.  But, I don't know, conditions were a lot tougher there overall.  I have played pretty well here, I guess, looking back  on it.  At first, I didn't -- just thinking back on it, I didn't feel like I have played all that spectacular.  But, at the same time, I have hit a lot of good shots, especially today, I hit a lot irons right at the hole and the right distance, pretty much.


Q.  I noticed certain pace in play for you early in the year, especially at The Tradition, and then the middle of the year didn't look like you -- now you seem to be back at that pace.  Is pace of play for you a big deal in terms of your rhythm and how you are playing?  It looks to me that you have just got a comfortable way of playing right now.

GIL MORGAN:  I really don't have much, you know -- I really don't know what that means, 100%.  You all may be able to see it better than I can.  Just -- I don't know.  Every day you just go play and try to do the best you can.


Q.  I guess, Gil, you have a tendency to speed up at times and --

GIL MORGAN:  Do I?


Q.  Is that something you --

GIL MORGAN:  Let me write that down.  Where is my pencil?  I don't know.  I am sure we all get -- in different situations we get nervous, if we don't -- probably depends on the confidence you have in your game at the time; whether -- how fast you are and what you are doing.  But, obviously, the better control you have, the better probably you are going to look out there.


Q.  Do you pay attention to the scores that Hale is shooting?

GIL MORGAN:  Sure, I was playing with him.  (laughs) I almost wrote them down.


Q.  What I mean is, some players say, "Well, I don't pay attention to what the other man is doing; I am playing the golf course."

GIL MORGAN:  I pay attention to everything out there, try to.  That is part of my game.  I mean, part of my job is to figure out exactly what is happening and try to, you know, try to do the best I can in those situations.  Try to, you know, if someone hits it in there close, I am trying to hit it in there closer, if I can; if I feel comfortable with it at the time with what I am doing.  Obviously, if they hit 3-wood in there and I don't know whether you are doing that, but you are standing out there with 5-, 6-, 7-, 8-iron in your hand and you are trying to get in there where you have got a good shot at it, you know, it is a situation where you are -- I am watching the scoreboard every chance I get; see where everybody is.  See what is happening out there to know what to anticipate; what to strive for; how -- 


Q.  Get to be a problem tomorrow to maybe get involved in a matchplay situation, are you trying to stay away from that?

GIL MORGAN:  Well, I am going -- I am going to try to play tee-to-green - pretty basic, if I can, and, you know, whatever happens, happens.  I am going to try to play the same game I have been playing last two, three days.  If it gets down to a matchplay situation, you know, coming down the last few holes, then that will be something that I will take a look at, I am sure.  If someone hits it in a bad spot, then you are not going to take a big chance or gamble if it's last two, three holes and you have got a lead or whatever, you are tied or something, you are going to try to unless you have got the appropriate club where -- would depend on the shot situation, you know.  It varies all the time.  Thanks.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT