ENERGIZER SENIOR TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 7, 1997
Gil Morgan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GIL MORGAN:  Let me get my cheat sheet out here. 
 
GIL MORGAN:  General, okay, I felt like the day was a little bit - I don't know - might have been a little bit cooler obviously than yesterday from a temperature standpoint.  I guess early it was about the same, but it warmed up yesterday a little bit in the afternoon.  Today it was pretty overcast and stayed kind of cool.  Some of the holes seemed a little bit different today, but overall, I guess the golf course was similar to what it was yesterday in most respects.  For me, I got off to a little better start.  Yesterday I got off to kind of a little shaky start.  Today I made a few birdies.  I made three in a row on the front and then I couldn't really capitalize it much and past that on the backside, it was kind of in and out and made one bogey at -- what was it, 14? 
 
GIL MORGAN:  So, and then I had a pretty good opportunity at the last hole, but I couldn't seem to make that one.  It was too tricky for me, I guess. 
 
GIL MORGAN:  No. 3.  Third hole, I hit a driver and a 7-iron to about within about 10 or 11 feet, I guess and made that.  Next hole is a par 5.  I hit driver over the bunker a little bit and then hit a 4-wood in there about, oh, over 25 feet, maybe, 20 feet, and knocked it about 4 and a half, five feet by; made it coming back for birdie.  And, then 9 par 3, I hit a 5-iron in there about eight feet, I guess, and made that.  At what was it -- 12, the par 3, hit 4-iron about maybe 18 feet; made that.  Then the par 5, I hit 3-wood, 4-wood, pitching wedge to about four feet and made that.  And then the bogey I, hit driver to the right, kind of sitting a little funny.  It was sitting in between kind of some  -- looked like some long grass, I guess, I don't know what happened, looked like maybe it caught the edge of my -- toe of the club caught the edge of the grass.  It kind of squirted off the right and buried in the lip of the bunker there. I took a little 8-iron and since it was plugged in the lip, I didn't know exactly how hard to hit it.  But, I swung at it pretty  hard and it came out.  But, I missed the putt from about probably 15 feet, maybe.  And then the par 5, I hit driver, 3-wood just off the right edge and chipped it within about a foot, made that.  And then at 16 I hit 4-wood, 9-iron about, oh, about 18 feet, I guess, 15, 18 feet, made that.  And then at 17 I hit 6-iron, bad shot, hit it way on the right side; putted it by about ten feet; made it coming back for par.  On the last hole I hit 3-wood, 8-iron about seven or eight feet from the hole and missed that. 
 

Q.  You played better than you did last week when you won there?
 
GIL MORGAN:  Am I playing better? 
 

Q.  Yeah.
 
GIL MORGAN:  I don't know.  I think I am playing about the same overall.  Golf course is a little bigger.  A lot -- quite a few more shots, you know, longer-type shots, so, at the par 3s and some of the par 4s you have -- Wilshire it was a little bit shorter overall.  Most of the time, I guess -- I would say you have to drive it a little bit more here.  It is not quite as tight as Wilshire, I don't think, overall, but the shots into the green and the greens are little bigger. Basically I am playing about the same, I think. 
 

Q.  Are you doing anything or do you think there is any reason other than equipment as to why you are driving it further now than you ever in your life?
 
GIL MORGAN:  Pumping iron for about, I don't know how long -- no, not really.  I have just made a little bit of both ball and driver equipment type changes and that is about it. 
 

Q.  That is not the only reason?
 
GIL MORGAN:  I don't know, you must know more than I do.  You seem to know at least, anyway.  I don't know.  That is the only thing I have done.  I am swinging at it about three times as hard, but other than that -- that is the only thing I have done. 
 

Q.  Hale Irwin seemed to think you are a better player now than you were when you were on the regular PGA TOUR.  What do you think of that?
 
GIL MORGAN:  Well, I don't think -- I think I score better today than I did back then.  I don't know whether -- I don't think I am a better player overall as far as my ball-striking ability.  I do have some attributes right now that my putting is better right now than it has been in my whole.  Career, and I, right now I am able to drive the ball further, so those two things combined has enhanced my scoring ability, I think.  As far as shot-making, I don't think I am as good as I  was overall. 
 

Q.  What about playing with Hale?  Are you guys pushing each other?  Is it any different?
 
GIL MORGAN:  Sure.  You can kind of feel it out there today a little bit.  But, you know -- I mean, I think we always do that.  I mean, no matter whether it is Hale or someone else, you are going down through there and one guy is making a birdie one hole and/or the same hole, and you know, like a couple of times we made birdies on the same holes, it seemed like, and one of us would have a short one and one of us have a long one.  You are probably trying a little bit harder. 
 

Q.  You have got recent experience of playing with Duval in tournaments where he was in contention, I guess, Michigan Pensacola?
 
GIL MORGAN:  Grand Rapids. 
 

Q.  Your assessment of his game and where you think he has found success?
 
GIL MORGAN:  I think he is a long driver of the ball and so when I played with him in Grand Rapids, he drove the ball a long ways.  I remember that.  And, he played really well coming down the stretch, made some putts, I don't know exactly -- hadn't played with him, but maybe once or maybe twice - I can't remember now for sure - but the day I played with him, he played very well.  And, it wasn't until I made a birdie at 17 up there where there was -- where I got -- where I was, you know, ahead enough.  He was ahead.  Then I was ahead.  Then, you know, seemed like as it went along and then I -- I don't know, I made a birdie and he made a bogey.  And, then later in the round, he made a birdie and I made a bogey.  So, it was a couple two-shot swings couple times.  And then, he made a par-saving putt at 17, I remember from about outside of me, and then I made a birdie on just inside of him.  And, then we went the last hole and both made par, but it was a little suspect.  I didn't play that hole well. 
 

Q.  Do you think there is something to the fact that he seems so happy to be here that he made the top 31 that he is playing relaxed?
 
GIL MORGAN:  I would think that might be a factor, yeah.  In fact, my caddie and I talked about that today and I am sure the fact that David won The TOUR Championship, I am sure he is thinking about maybe winning the SENIOR TOUR Championship show that will be a father-and-son-duo type of win/win situation.  Don't you think? 
 

Q.  Probably.
 
GIL MORGAN:  Okay.  At least we are on the right track. 
 

Q.  Question is whether we count it as 4 in a row if he did win.
 
GIL MORGAN:  (laughs) Is that the deal?  Well, I guess  you could.  As long as you keep it in the family, I guess, four in a row will work. 
 
GIL MORGAN:  Thank very much. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT