MLB WORLD SERIES: RANGERS v CARDINALS
October 20, 2011
Josh Hamilton
Ian Kinsler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Texas Rangers  2
  St. Louis Cardinals 1 
   
  Q. Ian, by how much were you safe at second base there?   
 IAN KINSLER: Enough. I mean, my hand just barely got in there. It took everything I had. Yadier made an unbelievable throw, quick, on the money, and I was just able to get my hand in there.   
  
  Q. Josh, with everything that you've been going through physically, what was your mindset at that at-bat? You didn't waste too much time on the first pitch from Arthur to knock in the run.   
 JOSH HAMILTON: Yeah, biggest thing in that situation is not to try to do too much. Obviously I faced him last night, he kept throwing me heaters up, heaters in. I was actually sitting first pitch slider and just reacted, and that's the good thing sometimes, just reacting, instead of trying to make it happen. So that was it.   
  
  Q. Josh, could you take us through your previous three at-bats. How would you describe them? And have you had to take any pain-killing injections to deal with your situation?   
 JOSH HAMILTON: First three at-bats, the first couple felt like I was sticking with the plan, not trying to do too much, trying to barrel the ball up. Chased my second at-bat, hit the ball to left field. But third at-bat, kind of said -- well, I can't say that word. Let me think. I was way more aggressive my third at-bat and ended up striking out.   
 But after that, the last at-bat, like I said, it was back to the first two at-bats, not trying to do too much. And to answer your other question, I plead the fifth.   
  
  Q. I know it's the best of seven, but you guys were in this situation heading home down a couple of games. Do you look at that ninth inning rally as almost like a series-saving rally?   
 IAN KINSLER: No. You know, it wasn't a series-saving rally, but it was huge. I mean, all these games are very big. I mean, it's the World Series, last two teams, every victory is huge. To be able to come from behind against a guy like that on the mound, you know, it was a big win for us. We're just happy that the series is tied up and we're going back to Texas and in front of our crowd.   
  
  Q. Can you just talk about, your manager was talking about the way this team plays nine innings. I know every team plays nine innings, can you just talk about the fortitude that this team has, the understanding this team has that it's never over, that you can always come back, and the spirit on this team that allowed you to do what you did tonight?   
 JOSH HAMILTON: You just answered your own question. It's fun because our team is like that and the Cardinals are like that. So it makes for a good ballgame. That's just our attitude. Up and down our lineup our guys want to win ballgames, and it doesn't matter if we're down five runs or we're up five runs. We have the attitude of, you know what, until the last pitch is thrown, last out is made, we're going to keep fighting. You know, you can't really say why that is other than the character of the guys on our team.  
 IAN KINSLER: Yeah, I mean, it's a difficult game, and you need to make sure that you take every at-bat for what it's worth and really try to build an inning and help the team any way you can with each at-bat. Sometimes it doesn't work out, and sometimes we score nine. It's a very weird game, and we all understand that, but at the same time we're going to fight until the last out. I'm sure the Cardinals are going to do the same.   
  
  Q. Ian, after you rounded third on Elvis' hit, if the Cardinals cut the ball off, are you okay to get back to third or home or someplace?   
 IAN KINSLER: I don't know. I was thinking scoring that run right there, and I rounded that bag pretty far, saw Dave Anderson pretty late, and luckily he didn't come up with it and it was a non-issue. It was a little scary, kind of stranded out there.   
  
  Q. Josh, can you talk to us a little bit about the middle of the order. I know you guys had some struggles so far, but getting the two sacrifice flies, what you guys can take from that moving forward. And also, I know you pleaded the fifth, but just the second part is, just where do you stand health-wise and how do you actually feel?   
 JOSH HAMILTON: That's a lot to talk about. You know, our guys in the middle of the lineup, it is what it is. I mean, we're going up there trying to give good at-bats, trying to barrel the ball up, trying to -- not say get hits because when you try to get hits, it usually backfires on you, but having good at-bats, take a walk if you can, we seem to be a little more aggressive the last couple games. Maybe not seeing as many pitches as we should. But at the same time, we had to get it done tonight, and it got done.   
 Health-wise, it is what it is. I'm tired of talking about it. I'm going to hurt until the season is over. You know, so it's a non-issue as far as talking about it. So stop asking me, please.   
  
  Q. Ian, anybody that follows baseball knows Elvis is a special player next to you there at shortstop. From a St. Louis perspective, we haven't seen him all year. Is that the best play he's made, the dive and then the flip to you?  
 IAN KINSLER: There's a couple that come to mind, but yeah, the situation I was in and being that it was a World Series game and just a run-saving play, I mean, the play was ridiculous. It was probably one of the best I've seen, not just him, but just defensive play was probably one of the best I've seen. Glove flip was right on the money. It doesn't get any better than that.  
 JOSH HAMILTON: When we get home tonight I'm going to watch it again.   
  
  Q. Josh, in the ninth inning did you expect Tony to bring in Rhodes, or as good as Motte has been pitching did you figure you'd get him?  
 JOSH HAMILTON: I figured he'd stay with him to be honest with you. A guy that throws close to 100, rather than brings in Rhodesy who throws 89. But he didn't. I don't get paid to make those decisions, and I'm glad he made that one.   
  
  Q. I know you don't want to talk about it --  
 JOSH HAMILTON: Well, don't ask me.   
  
  Q. Hear me out. Maybe you could help us understand, how does the injury limit your swing, if you can be specific?   
 JOSH HAMILTON: If I tell you all, then the Cardinals might know how to pitch me, so I'm not telling you.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT