WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC POOL ONE: SAN DIEGO
March 15, 2009
Edgar Gonzalez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Do you have to change the style of play?   
 EDGAR GONZALEZ: I think so. It's totally different. In this stadium it's -- as I said before, more baseball is played because it's more about moving the runner, advancing them, hitting the ball to the ground and not upwards, unlike at the other stadium where you can hit the ball wrong and still hit a home run. That's not so here.   
 Here you have to slug the ball right to get home runs. That means that it's time for us to play baseball.   
  
  Q. Let's talk about the importance of playing with your brother on the three different levels. Playing for the Padres, playing in the Caribbean series and here with the team representing Mexico.   
 EDGAR GONZALEZ: I think that's the one that was missing. And I've been able to play -- and we've been able to play together everywhere. It's been an honor, and we are pleased that all of these opportunities have presented themselves. I'm trying to appreciate everything. I've been able to get playing with my brother.   
  
  Q. In your baseball career you've seen and worked under different pilots. Vinny Castilla. He is pretty much a novice. What do you think he's done to keep you, first of all, relaxed and playing good ball?   
 EDGAR GONZALEZ: He is a great manager. What he brings is a great, calm manner during the game, whether things are going good or bad for us. He does not over or under react. He keeps a nice middle. Since he's played before, I think he knows what baseball is about.   
  
  Q. You have a great representation of Tijuana's baseball players. What's the importance of playing with guys that you probably played with in the little leagues as kids?   
 EDGAR GONZALEZ: I think it speaks volumes of the quality of players in Tijuana.   
 Baseball is huge in Tijuana. Many great players rose when we were that young. That's great that the municipal baseball leagues in Tijuana can be represented.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT