WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: 1ST ROUND POOL D
March 12, 2017
Edgar Gonzalez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








México - 11, Venezuela - 9.
Q. Was there a resolution?
EDGAR GONZALEZ: They are in a meeting right now because the rule is very clear, and the interpretation of the rule is very rule.  The rule talks about innings, partial innings.  At 2:00 in the afternoon we had a meeting with all the coaches, and we were talking and we were accounting.  There was a partial inning.  The rule doesn't -- partial innings because if we didn't play -- we are interpreting that a partial inning was that, on that basis.  We talked to Major League Baseball.  We talked to them.  We talked to them on the phone about five times in order to clarify the rule.
After they didn't -- we're okay because a partial inning is a partial inning.  We played with that notion.  The games have been played, and they had it clarified like we asked, and it would have been easy if Venezuela had -- if they had a different interpretation.  So why would they hit?  If I had known that, I would have tried to -- it's very easy for us.  They had the strategy planned and that's why I played that way.
Right now they are looking because if you go to court and you tell a judge black or white, what's a partial inning?  A partial inning is something that we -- if they say -- it's a third, one per out.  So then why are they saying partial out?  They should say it's out, if it's a partial inning.  A partial inning for me is an inning we played.  Then we played eight and a half innings because we didn't hit.
So in any event, if you go to a judge, the judge, I believe, would rule in our favor.  There is no other way.  It's a strategy right now.  They're going to see what's going to happen with this.
Q. (No microphone)?
EDGAR GONZALEZ: We're looking at that with the people from Charros.  It depends on the contract and everything, but should something be done because that's a partial inning.  There was no clarification.  Really what's a partial inning?  That's a partial inning.  That's what the rule says.  The rule says us -- that is because if it says out, it would have been different, but it doesn't say that.  So they are looking at what can be done because I believe that it's something very unjust.
You play baseball totally different, and besides, we beat them by two runs.  We beat Venezuela by two runs.  Italy beat them by one.  Even with runs, they don't beat us.  I don't know what the argument is.
Q. Kundy Gutierrez came a while ago here and he said that the understanding was if the difference was two, México was qualifying now.  Your players were aware of all the situation, and when did they know that it was two or one run?
EDGAR GONZALEZ: All the time.  We knew it was two runs.  Why?  Because we were told partial innings, and we divided it by partial innings.  It's that easy.
Q. (No microphone)?
EDGAR GONZALEZ: Well, they are looking because we brought the rule to them, and when you see the rule, the rule doesn't specify outs.  It specifies partial innings.  And if you go to a judge, this is a partial inning.  What's he going to say?  It's a partial inning.  And they're realizing that the language plays in our favor.
Think about it.  The language is in our favor.  That's what we did.
Q. (No microphone)?
EDGAR GONZALEZ: I don't know.  I don't know what was said.
Q. At this time of the morning, do you have to have something concrete who would start vs. Italy?
EDGAR GONZALEZ: Daniel Rodriguez.
Q. Do you talk to your players already about this?
EDGAR GONZALEZ: No, because I haven't been able to -- because we are in meetings.
Q. Can you explain the situation and the results now?  Are you in?  Are you out?
EDGAR GONZALEZ: We don't know yet.  We are in discussions right now talking about it because the rule states partial innings.  Even from MLB, they interpreted partial inning as being an inning.  If you read the rule, partial inning, if we're not on defense, they don't score.  That's a partial inning.  So the rule states partial innings.  If we would have stated outs, that's specific.  It states partial innings.  So when you say including partial innings, then you divide it by 18 because that's a partial inning.  So when the rule states that, and we told them, well, go to a judge.  What is he going to say?  Go to a judge; what is the judge going to tell you?  You guys are lawyers.  If you go to a lawyer and you say, well, we had this many outs, the lawyer is going to tell you why did you put outs.  The lawyer wouldn't tell you this was a partial inning.  That was a partial inning.  We were on defense.  So it's that clear.
So when we stated that, it is in writing.
Q. So what's next?
EDGAR GONZALEZ: We're waiting for a decision.
Q. How long will you wait for a decision?
EDGAR GONZALEZ: I don't know.  They are talking, and I don't know how long it's going to take.
Q. (No microphone)?
EDGAR GONZALEZ: We talked about it before the game, and with the inning --
Q. (No microphone).
EDGAR GONZALEZ: Because just imagine we say partial is partial.  That's fine.  But you never know what's going to happen.  You have to protect yourself either way.  We told them, let us know.  They never came.  We have the texts showing that we called them.
Q. How do you interpret the situation?
EDGAR GONZALEZ: First México wins and then almost 3:00 we're discussing it.  For México, we came to play baseball.  We won by two.  Italy won by one, and with Puerto Rico we won the same way.  Either way you see it, Venezuela lost 11-0 against Puerto Rico.  Either way you see it, we are inside.  There is no way you see it and we're not in.
Now, if you're going to interpret it but read their mind because we're thinking about us, how come they didn't write outs.  If you're thinking outs, put it in the rule, and that's not a partial inning.  A partial inning is something where you go in defense.  Eight and a half, we're in.
Q. You're talking about the decision, in order to advance the runners with no outs, what did you decide?
EDGAR GONZALEZ: I talked to him.  I told him he was going to bunt, and he said, look, I don't feel comfortable.  I haven't bunted in four or five years.  I would like -- I don't think I'll be able to do it right.  I might have had another -- I didn't want to use my catcher because then if the catcher gets hurt, it's not good.  So the decision was they can base it on the players I have.  I think he did good because he was honest with me.  I'd rather he be honest with me, then it's worse.
A lot of things have happened.  The decision was taken because he hadn't bunted in more than four years.
Q. (No microphone)?
EDGAR GONZALEZ: Well, also, I could have told him -- I could have told him.  Either way I want you to bunt.  I based my decision on everything.
In any event, this is my fault because I have told him I want you to bunt no matter what.  But I made the decision based on the information, and I thought it was.  Now, if I had known this about the rules, then I would have also changed the decision right there.  I would have said, I knew I go from before.  I also changed the decision.
Q. Before the game you were told one thing, and then they read the tweets, the tweet that México won, then they erased that, then they tweeted that Venezuela won.
EDGAR GONZALEZ: Well, changing things, that is a disrespect.  We have had the chance, the clarification before the game, a lot of things would have changed because the rule is in our favor.  That's all.
Thank you very much.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT