WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: 1ST ROUND POOL D
March 11, 2017
Edgar Gonzalez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Puerto Rico - 9, México - 4
Q. If you can describe the team's performance and if you can explain the two changes in the catcher's position and the designated hitter.
EDGAR GONZALEZ: Today's game, well, it was difficult because we were in the game.  It would have been different -- I am not going to -- it's not his fault.  It's okay.  But he should have made that catch -- the catcher called it.  If the game keeps 5-4, it would have been better, but I think that you cannot -- that pitch out there, that slider that was -- you cannot call it a strike.  They are not giving them.  I don't understand why.  We're looking at the pitches.  They're strikes when they do.  I'm not saying that that's why we lost, but it's more difficult to get teams as good as -- if umpires are -- I'm not saying there's a reason they did.  I'm not going to take credit away, but I think things could have happened different today.  I know we're still alive if we beat Venezuela tomorrow and Puerto Rico beats Italy, we're still alive for a tiebreaker.  We're still going.  The changes in the lineup because of the pitcher that was going to start for Puerto Rico, and between Joe and all the coaching staff, we felt that Juarez was a good hitter against their pitcher.  We're not taking anything away from Amador, and he's the one that gets -- I thought he was going to -- so did Adrian.  He's a tremendous hitter, but he's a power hitter, and I thought that behind Adrian, one more on base can help Adrian before.  A home run cleans the bases for Adrian.  I wanted somebody like that behind Adrian.  That's what I did, a little bit of speed.  He was good.  I was thinking about that.  Juarez got on base four times and it was exactly what I was thinking.  He's going to get his rhythm.  I know he's a tremendous player.  He's going to come out of it.
Q. Adrian has been 0 for 9 so far in the Classic.  Is it the right condition coming from an injury and being out of rhythm playing?
EDGAR GONZALEZ: You wouldn't blame?
Q. I don't know.  Compared with Amador coming with --
EDGAR GONZALEZ: I think any time that he's going to stand out, he can carry the team, and there is a difference that if you're going to lose, you're going to lose with the best team, with your horses, not with experiments because I thought this game, I couldn't -- you have to do the same thing with Osuna.  Osuna is still the closer because he's going to die with him.  I'm not saying Carrillo.  They're going to -- Adrian is okay.  He's completely healthy.  He is.
Q. What is your sense, the errors are part of the game, but just the Mexicans, they have been hurting and they have been fighting to win and they have been the difference when you're trying to keep coming back in the score.  What is your feeling, it looks like the defense is killing the team, and what happens to Adrian?  I feel that he's going with the first pitch, he's anxious.  Have you talked to him?  What is he telling you about this slump?
EDGAR GONZALEZ: The defense, that happens.  I think the players are trying to do too much.  They are trying to play good.  That happens in baseball.  That's a given.  Yesterday the baseball is not giving it, but we are alive, and this can change any minute, and I hope it does tomorrow against Venezuela, and if Puerto Rico beats Italy and we beat Venezuela, we're going to be there.  We're going to play everything to try to get that game tomorrow, which is important, and the offense is okay.  That play is the only thing -- Carrillo committed an error.  That happens in baseball.  I'm not so worried about that.
Adrian, many, many times he's been 0 for 9.  Every hitter has gone 0 for 9.  Any time he picks up he can carry the team, so that's part of baseball.  He picks up his rhythm, and I want him -- the only way you get out of a slump is to keep attacking.  If you start changing your way, that's when you get into a really big slump.  How many years has he played in the Big Leagues, and he's going to get out and be ready.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT