WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: 1ST ROUND POOL D
March 9, 2017
Edgar Gonzalez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Italy - 10, México - 9   
EDGAR GONZÁLEZ: Next game is No. 7 in the World Series.  We cannot change the results.  We're going to try to be positive.  The next game is the most important game for us, and we're going to see -- I know that this team is not going to bow down.   
 Q.  The bullpen failed, Salas, Osuna and Perez, the stars, our closers.  What opinion do you have?  
EDGAR GONZÁLEZ: Look, they are pitchers, but they were three pitchers, Torres, Soria.  They did very good work.  We were winning 9-5 in the last inning.  They are all closers from the Big Leagues, and I don't see anything that could have been different.  We were up 9-5 with the best closers in the Big Leagues.  You cannot do anything different.  Baseball didn't pay off today; it wasn't our game.  We know he's an awesome pitcher, and there are good days and bad days for everybody.   
 Q.  How do you face this situation?  
EDGAR GONZÁLEZ: Like I said, in these games, it's not necessary because they are trying to -- they have a lot of hitting.  Any team can beat anybody.  It's supposed to be difficult, but it is the most important game.   
 Q.  I would like to ask something about the Puerto Rico game.  I know the game is a game, but I would like you to tell me if there is going to be any different approach against Puerto Rico.  
EDGAR GONZÁLEZ: No, I don't think it's a different approach.  We played good baseball.  In the last inning they beat us with our best closer.  I mean, we played more aggressive.  We did what we could in order to finish.  We had a good closer, and a lot of things happened, but in any event, the situation was good.   
At the end, it didn't come out.   
 Q.  Because of the last two innings, do you think you can still beat Venezuela and Puerto Rico?  
EDGAR GONZÁLEZ: Of course.  Anybody can win.  If we keep playing like we are playing, I mean, their pitchers are very high level, and that will help them to better adjust, and that's going to help improve.   
 Q.  How would you describe that ninth inning after the three doubles.  What happened?  What was in your mind, the strategy when this was falling apart?  
EDGAR GONZÁLEZ: When they were hitting, he has a limit of pitches.  He couldn't keep on pitching.  Oliver was next because he couldn't make any more pitches and Osuna was already at his pitch limit.   
 Q.  You mentioned each game is the seventh game of the World Series, and Roberto Osuna is one of the best closers in the world.  Considering you have Sergio Romo, does that change your position as manager for the next game?  
EDGAR GONZÁLEZ: Nothing changes.  If I see the situation coming and we are on top in the ninth inning, Osuna is going to go back to the mound.  He has done it for a long time, and he's going to keep doing it.  As I always say, if we lose, we're going to lose with our best pitcher.  What I mean is you have to go to a person who has already been doing it.  You cannot do anything about it.  (Indiscernible).   
EDGAR GONZÁLEZ: He was throwing hard.  He had good stuff.  Location was a little off, I think.  I thought they were close in with two strikes and I think we could have gone either way.  I don't know if they were strikes or not.  Obviously he's doing his job.  But at the same time I thought they were close and it could have gone either way, and it didn't go our way today.  I can't go do anything different.  I had a 9-5 lead with my closer there that's one of the best closers in the Major Leagues.  That's all I can do, and that's what I did.  I wouldn't change anything.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
EDGAR GONZÁLEZ: That surprised me a little bit.  He throws 95, 96 miles an hour, and I was a little bit surprised that he didn't go after one of those.  I don't think he hits that pitch, but what you saw from behind the pen, you see something different, but I felt that we had -- at that time he should have been throwing fastballs.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT