AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX v ANGELS
October 8, 2004
Tim Wakefield
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Just a thought on what it's like for you guys to be in this situation as a team where a couple of times in your career you've been in the situation that Anaheim has been in, technically, so just a thought on how you guys feel as a team right now?

TIM WAKEFIELD:   I've never been in this situation, so I can't -- it's a nice position to be in because the last five times that I've been here, we haven't been in this position.  We've been down, it's either 1-1 or we're down 0-2.  But it's really nice winning both Games 1 and 2 on the road and coming home and trying to win in front of our home crowd instead of having to go back for Game 5.  

Q.  You've been doing this now, you're in the playoffs 11 years, how it feels you out on the mound with that kind of experience?

TIM WAKEFIELD:   I don't think you can substitute experience for anything else.  It's still, you're pitching on the grandest stage that there is.  You know, I've been in this situation before.  It's still not easy.  But, you know, I'm going to go out there tomorrow hopefully we can get it done today but if we need tomorrow and I'm going to go out and do my best and try to give us a victory here at home. 

Q.  Are you at all conflicted about tomorrow?  On one hand you probably don't want to pitch and on the other hand you probably would love to pitch?

TIM WAKEFIELD:   I'd love to pitch, but if we don't get to tomorrow, I'm perfectly happy with that.  It means that we won today and we're going on to the LCS.  Regardless of what happens today, I'll be happy either way. 

Q.  Does it help to know how Anaheim feels because you've been there twice in the divisional series?

TIM WAKEFIELD:   Yeah, it's not very fun coming into Game 3 and you're down 2-0.  Obviously it's a long road ahead of you, but we also know what can happen.  We've been on the other side of the road.  And we know that we have to go out there and play hard.  They are going to be aggressive and play hard against us today and we have to go out there and try to win today.  I have a lot of confidence in our club as far as today is concerned and the rest of the series, and hopefully we'll make it to the next round. 

Q.  Can you talk about your series as a whole and how Charlie Huff (ph) might have helped you in these last couple of weeks?

TIM WAKEFIELD:   My season as a whole is not as good as I wanted it to be, but, you know, season's over right now.  We're on to the post-season.  I'm just very fortunate that Charlie was around and I was able to just, you know, talk to him.  I'm one of two guys in the world that are doing what I'm doing, and it's nice to be able to talk to somebody that has done what I'm going through right now.  To be able to just talk feel and mechanics and things like that with somebody that has a lot of experience doing what I'm about to do. 

Q.  Can we do another "what if" question?  What if the Red Sox win today, which means you're not pitching; how will a long layoff affect you?

TIM WAKEFIELD:   I don't know.  I don't think it will affect me very much.  I'm sure I'll get some side work and possibly maybe throw to some hitters tomorrow or whatever our work out schedule pans out to be.  I'm not too worried about a long layoff. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT