ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 4, 2012
Anton Haig
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  ANTON HAIG:   Been working hard, really focussed on my career now, and got a great management group who are looking after me and a good team around me.   I'm working hard on the short game and showed today I really putted well.   Drove the ball pretty well off the tee, too.   I can't complain.   Just a nice start to the week.

Q.   As fast starts go, that was pretty explosive the first three or four holes?
ANTON HAIG:   Yeah, even I was shocked.   Yeah, this week, I've just come out and said, listen, treat each shot as it comes, and forget about the score, don't get ahead of yourself, and that's what I did today.

Q.   What did you think when you reached the turn in 29? 
ANTON HAIG:   I was like, wow, it's tough not to think ahead.   I kind of held back where I should have pressed on, and made a stupid bogey on 13‑‑ 12, sorry, the par5.   From there I played solid golf and hit a lot of fairways today and a lot of greens, and played pretty well. 

Q.   You're obviously comfortable playing links golf. 
ANTON HAIG:   Yeah, you just have to keep the ball low and stay out of those traps.   That's the most important thing.

Q.   What have you been up to since we last saw you on the Tour a good 18 months ago? 
ANTON HAIG:   Well, I took a couple months after, just needed a break.   Signed up with my new manager in January.   From there, just been working on golf, I've been working with Simon Holmes from May onwards, and he's done an exceptional job with my swing and he's got me, you know, being able to trust the game again. 
Just loving being out here and not going to get ahead of myself.   It's another two days of cut and three days for the final round, so I'm just going to go out there and give it my best. 

Q.   You've obviously had a pretty up‑and‑down career as careers go, was there any point where you thought, maybe I'll try and do something else or has golf always been in your blood?
ANTON HAIG:   It has always been in my blood, but I got to a stage where I didn't want to play anymore.   I started hating the game and was playing for the wrong reasons and now I've got a support system around me that I truly am blessed, and I can't ask for anything more.   I'm loving golf again and loving competing, starting out like I did, being pumped up like I was, it makes you feel alive and it's great. 

Q.   What a beautiful place to play golf as well?
ANTON HAIG:   And we are blessed with the weather, too.   Needed to take advantage and I did, which is great.

Q.   Branden Grace, you're a good friend ever his, must be inspired by what he's doing?
ANTON HAIG:   He's an exceptional player and he's really good around links golf courses, being brought up at Fancourt there. 
But yeah, he's a hell of a player, we've got a lot of great talent in South Africa, and so it's good to see that everyone is coming through nicely. 

Q.   What's the plan for now until the end of the season?   Q‑School on your radar? 
ANTON HAIG:   Yes, I will be going to final stage.   But until then, just playing on the MENA Tour the next couple weeks up in Dubai there and just playing, competing really, just getting tournament practise under my belt again.   Hopefully here things change for me. 

Q.   Looking forward to the rest of the week, I would imagine?     
ANTON HAIG:   I am indeed. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT