BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 19, 2008
Anton Haig
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Anton, how much of a change is that?
 ANTON HAIG: Well, I've been working pretty hard on my golf swing and finally starting to reap the benefits. I've been trying to work a positive attitude now and I think it seems to be working. 

 Q. There have been moments this season, but got to look back to Qatar with the best finish? 
 ANTON HAIG: Yeah, Qatar played pretty well but still wasn't too happy for my golf game and managed to have a good finish there because I loved the golf course. 
 This course demands quite a bit of accuracy. I hit my driver really well and also putted really well so overall happy with a great start. 

 Q. I recall saying you were working with a new coach and techniques and they were beginning to gel. 
 ANTON HAIG: Well, Jamie Gough has done a great job with me. It's not a quick fix and it takes a while to get used to the new swing and new techniques. I really have knuckled down and trying to get back to where I was last year, so fighting hard.

 Q. Are you frustrated at all?
 ANTON HAIG: It has been because I know I can win. I've won before and I'm sure I can do it again.

 Q. Has it ever been hard to remain positive? 
 ANTON HAIG: Well, this game is a game of patience and it can take you to the highest moments and it can bring you to the lowest moments. It's all about keeping a level head which I didn't keep a level head. I was a bit high and then low and then never on a straight line. Trying to keep positive and I think it's going to help me. 

 Q. I know you've spoken before about family and friends, that you're too talented to waste it; is that still the same?
 ANTON HAIG: I hope so. My parents have always been there for me, and so I've just got to believe and trust in myself and I should be all right. 

 Q. With the rough up, and as you say, the accuracy is needed. 
 ANTON HAIG: Well, the rough wasn't as bad as last year but the greens are really running nicely, and the course is playing quite short, so it's good for us long hitters out there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT