BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 6, 2015
Ricky Barnes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Ricky, nice birdie on the last to get a couple of those points back coming down the stretch. Just comment on the day as a whole.   
RICKY BARNES: Yeah, I played good. It's kind of nice when you can actually say your two bad bogeys were bad bogeys, both kind of from the fairway. One of them wasn't a great shot and to get up‑and‑down on the other one of‑‑ I ripped my other putt on 17.   
I mean I played solid. I didn't really hit a lot of fairways, hit a lot of greens. Made some easy birdies out there and I think I probably had four easy birdies is what I would say, four putts inside of four feet and it was solid.  
It was nice to get the last one. You hate kind of giving two points back on the last four holes when you really haven't missed a shot, haven't been in much trouble. So to get that last one, after hitting a good drive and a good second shot, we just misjudged about a club on the second shot. It was a good finish.  
   
 Q. How was it with the nice weather this morning, everybody seemed to get off to a pretty good start?  
RICKY BARNES: Softer greens. We know this course gets firm and fast once it gets going. If the breeze picks up in the canyon it's a little tricky. But like you said it was pretty benign until our last kind of three holes where you were actually starting to feel it, all right, where is it.  
   
 Q. It was a great start for you, give you a little confidence going forward now the next three days?  
RICKY BARNES: Yeah, I had a tough finish last week after I've been playing some good golf. Tough course. It's good to get a good bounce back right here and shoot a good round, 14 points. But that was with a lot of birdies. I think I had eight birdies out there.  
   
 Q. Do you think being familiar with this course helped you today?  
RICKY BARNES: Yeah, I just came and played in the Wednesday Pro‑Am. I just live over in Truckee. I took a few days off to relax and just kind of hit a few balls and more than anything I feel like I'm playing well, get some rest. Like you said, good start.  
   
 Q. Big few weeks for you coming up, Ricky, this week and Wyndham in terms of trying to get into the playoffs.   
RICKY BARNES: Yeah, I can do just what I did today. Play good golf. Hit a lot of fairways, hit a lot of greens and hole out. And it will take care of itself. Obviously I'd like to be in a better position to move up and secure a few playoff spots, but we're fortunately in this game we're one good week away.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT