JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 13, 2012
Ricky Barnes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Ricky Barnes, 64 on day No. 1.   Talk about round two at the John Deere. 
RICKY BARNES:   A little disappointing to hit it really well and then just to end like that on a bogey.   Hit a lot of good swings, and unfortunately put myself in two spots that I can remember that it's just tough to make par. 

Q.   You said the conditions on Thursday morning were perfect for you.   How different was the course this afternoon. 
RICKY BARNES:   We got lucky.   I mean, I heard probably five rumbles of thunder in the first two holes.   I don't think we really thought we were going to ever finish this round.   Before we know it we were on No. 12.   We kind of said on the 3rd tee that we couldn't believe that we were still playing.

Q.   Ended on a bit of a frustrating note, but still right if the mix with 36 holes to go.
RICKY BARNES:   Yeah, just probably more of wrong thought process on the swing than the swing itself.   I'm playing good, you know, making a lot birdies.   Like I said, just put myself short‑sided twice today.   You kind of got to make bogey on those. 
Other than, playing well.   Keep hitting a lot of fairways and a lot of and keep doing what I'm doing.   11‑under through two rounds, I can't be too disappointed. 

Q.   J.J. also bogeyed the 9th hole both days; he's 11 under.   You did it.   That 9th hole is nasty. 
RICKY BARNES:   Yeah, it's a tough one.   You can thread the needle with driver or hit 3‑wood and hit a long club in.   I just don't think I really went after my drive on the last hole and came out of it.   It's a little disappointing, but 11‑under after two rounds.   If you told me that on Thursday morning before I tee'd, I would take it.   Here I am. 

Q.   And you're taking it.   Great job on the par‑5s.   Birdie two of 'em; eagle another. 
RICKY BARNES:   Yeah.   Well, 10 is tough to reach.   The other two, I hit the green and had a three‑footer on 17 and a good two‑putt on No. 2.   Keep that up, and I think I birdied 'em all on the first day, 4‑under today.   You need to take advantage because there's only three of 'em out here.

Q.   What's been the strength for you this week?   Driven it pretty darn well.   The irons have been spot on.
RICKY BARNES:   Yeah, my distance control with my irons has been very good.   I think I've probably had six or seven birdies just inside of five feet.   I had one of 'em with a 4‑iron today.   Irons are well.   Putting it in the fairway and I trust the rest of my game.

Q.   You put your 7‑under on the board early Thursday.   You had no idea where it was going to be when you tee'd off or finished.   Glad where it all shook out?
RICKY BARNES:   Yeah, I'm at 11‑under.   I think I'm going to be a couple up the lead at the end of the day and within striking dance.

Q.   A trouble spot, but overall the leaderboard looks pretty good for you. 
RICKY BARNES:   Yeah, took advantage of the par‑5s today.   You need to do because there are only three of 'em out here.   Disappointing finish.   Just one bad swing.   That's all it was.

Q.   Third shot do you have any chance to get on the green? 
RICKY BARNES:   Actually I probably could have.   Wasn't even really trying to get up to the green.   Trying to lay back and give myself a 70‑yard shot into that pin.   Guess I didn't realize how far the ball would fly off that lie.

Q.   The numbers you knew early in the morning, you knew you had to get double figures. 
RICKY BARNES:   Yeah, you know you're going to have to make a lot of birdies out here.   I'm doing that very well.   Like I said, I think I short‑sided myself twice today, and that makes for some tough up‑and‑downs. 
Still hit a lot of fairways, yo know, probably another 14, 15 greens today, and you got to keep doing that out here that to give yourself opportunities.

Q.   The conditions the next two days, obviously still going to be pretty low?
RICKY BARNES:   Yeah, we got lucky today to finish the round.   We heard a lot of the thunder before the round started.   On our 12th hole today we were kind of joking around in our group that we were lucky that we were still playing and that we didn't get called off the golf course. 
That's great for the tournament.   Rain delays are pretty tough.   But, yeah, if this weather keeps up, probably going to need to chase another 10‑, 11‑under on the weekend.

Q.   Feel positive about your game coming in?
RICKY BARNES:   Yeah, distance control is very good.   Few tap‑ins out there out of the fairway.   Just got to keep that up on the weekend. 

Q.   After missing the cut here the last couple times, does it feel good to head into the weekend?
RICKY BARNES:   Yeah, just making it, and now I'm tied for second or third.   It's nice to get in the clubhouse and I guess get the monkey off my back. 
It'll make me come back, you know.

Q.   What's the difference this year compared to the last couple?
RICKY BARNES:   I've been playing good coming into here.   Just starting to roll the ball pretty well, making putts.   You do know the putt is going to be under par each and every year out here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT