SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
March 29, 2012
Ricky Barnes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Nicely done.
RICKY BARNES:   Thank you.

Q.   Ricky, very nice, bogey-free 66.   Was it as stress-free as it looked on the card?
RICKY BARNES:   Yeah, it was.   Lot of tap-ins when I was making pars and, like you said, I mean two tap-ins out of the fairway and a two-putt on No. 13 for birdie.   So, it was pretty stress-free.   Played well and nice after getting food poisoning on Tuesday.

Q.   So you're coming back from that.   You've been playing hurt lately, haven't you?
RICKY BARNES:   Yeah.   I've been playing a lot better.   I've been pretty hurt-free the last eight, nine months.   Just kind of nice.   Played well at Pebble, took a few weeks off, and, like I said, really didn't do much at all yesterday, just from recovering.

Q.   So the game is better?
RICKY BARNES:   Well, yeah.   So I didn't play all the West Coast, took a week off, came back for a week, and then came home, went back again. 
But it's nice.   You know, I'm from the West Coast, so I like to play a lot on the West Coast.   I did get off to a pretty good start.   You can always do better.   I'm refreshed now.   I think maybe just taking one week off after the West Coast, maybe wasn't enough, but it's good to be back here and one more chance to try to get in Augusta.

Q.   You got off to a great start today.   Keep up the good work.
AThank you.

Q.   Food poisoning on Tuesday, 66 on Thursday.   How did you recover so quickly?
RICKY BARNES:   I recovered on and off the golf course.   It was a good turn-around.   I was fortunate I wasn't in the Pro-Am yesterday.   Allowed me to get some rest.   I literally just came out and putted yesterday for about 45 minutes.   It was a good turn-around, kind of refreshed me and I guess put it in perspective.

Q.   The practice certainly helped, 24 putts today.   Was that the club of the day for you?
RICKY BARNES:   Actually, I hit it pretty good, too.   I'd be surprised if my greens in reg weren't up there as well.   I made two putts from off the green that were probably 18-footers.   So, I wouldn't say it was a bad club, but a good overall round.   My putts were kind of tap-ins, stress-free.

Q.   What happened with the food poisoning?
RICKY BARNES:   I don't know.   I worked out, came out to practice.   I had my wife come pick up me about 4:00, said I could almost feel it coming on, wasn't right.   Literally by 5:30 I was hanging over the toilet.

Q.   Was it something you ate here?
RICKY BARNES:   I honestly don't know.   It came quick.   I know that.

Q.   You look like you feel good right now.
RICKY BARNES:   I feel good.   I wasn't in the Pro-Am.   I got a lot of rest, lot of fluids in me.   And I feel good, and I'll probably even be able to get a little workout in later in the day.

Q.   You're probably the first person I ever heard said I feel refreshed after --
RICKY BARNES:   I had a full day.   It was good.   I texted my caddy in the morning and I said, "Hey, I'll let you know we're going to come out at all."   It was good.   I came out and putted a little bit.   Like you said, it helped a little bit today to make a few putts.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT