MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2011
Ricky Barnes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
   
  Q. Pretty good score.   
 RICKY BARNES: Yeah, bittersweet today. Had my chances, and the putter let me down kind of the middle of the round and on the back nine. Probably only made one bad swing on the back nine and made two or three bogeys on the back nine, so that kind of sucks. Yeah, I made three bogeys on the back nine and only made one bad swing. So kind of tough to swallow, pretty bittersweet. Drove it really well on the par-5s and didn't take advantage of them.  
  
  Q. Even though you sound disappointed, do you like where you stand right now?  
 RICKY BARNES: Yeah, it's okay. The way I hit the ball, I told someone I probably could have got to double digits today. I got off to a great start and still kept the momentum going hitting the golf ball, and I just couldn't get the ball to drop. Wasn't feeling very comfortable with the putter until the last four or five holes and hit two good putts, even though the last four holes didn't even get them to drop.   
 But it is what it is. But like I said, at the end of the day it's kind of bittersweet, 5-under. Hopefully will be within two or three come the weekend, depending on what McIlroy and Quiros do out there. Can't complain.  
  
  Q. Does it surprise you that there's a lot of international guys up there at the top?  
 RICKY BARNES: No, I mean, we see them a lot, not only on the PGA Tour but the World Golf Championships and majors. No. A lot of them are in the World Match Plays and the top 50 in the world. That's why they're here.  
  
  Q. Would you say the conditions are good for scoring?  
 RICKY BARNES: They are, you know, depending on what this wind does. If it picks up, it's going to -- but the greens are still receptive. You're still seeing 5- and 4-irons stop within four or five yards of where they pitch. It's still out there for the taking. You know, you've just got to put the ball in the right position and not make the mistakes that I did today.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT