MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 7, 2011
Ricky Barnes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q. Did you feel yourself picking up momentum when you made the turn?  
 RICKY BARNES: I did. I started hitting better shots. I think a couple of the swings were a little quick, nervous, anxious kind of getting out there again. And then I settled in and hit a lot of fairways on the back nine. I think if I go around, yeah, I think I hit all the fairways on the back nine. Which is kind of good.   
 Even hitting 8 and 9. So I hit the last, every fairway from 8 in.   
  
  Q. You had some great rounds here, as an amateur, top-10 last year, great round today. What is it about this course that suits your game?  
 RICKY BARNES: I think it suits my eye a little bit. I think that I tend to draw the ball. And I tend to like fast greens. I like picking my lines and just kind of making a stroke on the line and don't worry about the speed too much.   
 Here a lot of the times the ball is going to get to the hole and I did that well today and took advantage of the par-5s.   
  
  Q. Perfect conditions out there this afternoon, were you surprised that the greens were not as fast as that they have been in the past?  
 RICKY BARNES: I think they are getting to their speed, I think that the thing that I was surprised the most is how receptive they still were today. I think that we know in years past not only will the greens get quicker, but they will firm up a little bit as well.  
  
  Q. How much confidence does a round like this today give you going into tomorrow?  
 RICKY BARNES: It's good. I've only played four times this year, this is my fifth tournament. So I'm refreshed, I feel good, I feel like I'm swinging well and I felt like I swung really well the last 11 holes, so it's something to take into tomorrow as well.   
  
  Q. Is there something that you can work on for the rest of the week that you feel like you might not have done as well today?  
 RICKY BARNES: Obviously play maybe the par-4s a little bit better. Just my distance control was pretty good today. So take advantage of the par-5s, like I did, and maybe just play the par-4s a little bit better early on.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT