AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 11, 2016
Ricky Barnes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great round today.  6-under par to get the tournament started.  Your thoughts?  
RICKY BARNES: Played solid.  I actually didn't to very good on the par-5s on the back when we started, but it played long in the morning.  The air and actually talking to the group behind us, once we got a little fooled on a few yardages, but hit it solid, kept the ball in play, and made a few putts.   
 Q.  What was going right for you out there?  Did you make any long putts?  
RICKY BARNES: I made one long putt on 11.  Like I said, I felt early on that I should have been 3- or 4-under, and I was only kind of 1- or 2-under.   
But then I started to kind of dial in my yardages and rolled in a few putts.  But overall, kept the ball, hit a lot of fairways, and my distance control was good to give me a lot of kind of 12-, 15-footers.   
 Q.  This format, with the Amateur partners, is that something you enjoy playing in?  
RICKY BARNES: Yeah, I think it's easier to -- I shouldn't say easier, I think it's easy to kind of get rid of a shot, especially if you get an amateur that likes a little bit of your help, whether it was yardage or reading putts, you get it over with quick.  If you're not relaxed out here and looking at your views, then you might want to pick another job, because the weather's unbelievable.   
 Q.  What's your plan -- where are you playing tomorrow?  
RICKY BARNES: We're at Pebble tomorrow.   
 Q.  Do you have a favorite of the three, obviously, Pebble's the host, but?  
RICKY BARNES: No, I think everyone used to knock Poppy but now they put Monterrey in.  They all play different, I will say that.  But, no, I wouldn't say -- I mean, if I had a membership to any one, I would take them.  Spy's probably got a special place in my heart because it goes out to the ocean and it's tough.  But keep this weather up, they're all my favorite.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT