BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 7, 2015
Jason Allred
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Jason, another nice day for you. Just get some comments on your play.   
JASON ALLRED: You got it. First and foremost, it's such a gift for me to be here on a sponsor's exemption. Words can't express for one how excited I am to be here, but also how thankful I am that they gave me a shot at it.  
I absolutely love this place. It's hard to come here and ignore how beautiful it is. Yeah, it's a thrill to be here. Naturally since I was given a spot I was hoping so much that my game would be good.  
I feel like I've been playing well recently but my results have been up and down, but it's been couple days where I played nicely. I have also had some things go well and got some putts to drop, one bunker shot to drop today.   
So, yeah, it's been fun.  
   
 Q. Do guys put a little more pressure on themselves when they do get a pick from the tournament just to sort of prove you were a good choice?  
JASON ALLRED: That's a good question. Last year I was really fortunate to be given three, four spots throughout the year, which was awesome. A couple times I think I did because you don't want to let them down. I know the spots are valuable.  
This week I try to remember‑‑ I mean, my wide and great people around me help me remember, Hey, you of all people have nothing to lose. I really don't.   
That said, my tendency is to try so hard to do so well that I'll get in my own way. I probably said to myself 500 times last few days, Hey, just let it rip. Let it rip. It takes a while to get it through my thick head, but it's been fun to play with a lot of freedom.  
   
 Q. How do you feel going into tomorrow? How do you get ready tonight?   
JASON ALLRED: Yeah, same. I'll go do my little practice routine when I'm done. My dad is here helping me practice. And then just go enjoy my family.   
It's such a treat. My wife and three kids are here. We're staying in a really nice place down by the Truckee River, so go enjoy them and love life.   
   
 Q. What did you hit on the bunker shot?  
JASON ALLRED: I hit 3‑wood off the tee, and then I hit a 2‑iron into the green. Hit a decent shot. It's a tough green to hit. Just left it up to the right a little in the bunker.  
I hit a really nice bunker shot, but it was really fortunate that it found the hole.  
   
 Q. That's the second one in in two days, right, that you've holed?  
JASON ALLRED: That's the first one as far as I know. (Laughter.)  
   
 Q. The bunker there is not a bad place to be, right, on a Par‑5?   
JASON ALLRED: That one is not bad, especially where that pin was on the left. If I was going to miss‑ I wasn't trying to miss it ‑ but that's the spot to be in.   
It's a deep bunker, so I hit it and I ran up the face. I got there just in time to see it go in. It was a fun moment.   
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT