BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 2, 2014
Jason Allred
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   That's after a big Saturday.   What was it, six birdies, an eagle, three bogeys, 14 points?   It all adds up.   It's been a roller coaster career in some respects.   Maybe at the pinnacle of it right now and you're on the verge of something even better.   How do you keep that out of your mind tomorrow?   
JASON ALLRED:   Good question.   You're right.   On one hand I feel fortunate I still get to play this game, because I have had some ups and downs.   
18, still some‑‑ what a gift to be here on a sponsor's exemption.   And I spend so much of my career trying so hard to do all the right things, I almost get in my own way.  
   
 Q.   What's different now?  
JASON ALLRED:   Like you said, even a chance to do something crazy tomorrow, rather than try to block it out, I'm just going to do my best to enjoy it and have a blast with it.   It's a given I want to do well.   When it's all said and done, what else can a guy do except play his heart out, see what happens.  
   
 Q.   Your story is something I think a lot of viewers can relate to.   You started the year with bad Web.com status.   It was an uphill battle just to get in there.   Went on to qualify, third place, you're eighth or ninth, on the verge of earning special temporary membership on the PGA TOUR.   Is that just a sign of a crazy game, a sign of what a little self worth can do for you?  
JASON ALLRED:   Yeah, it is a crazy game.   It's a great game.   When we were talking a minute ago, I have a ton of growing to do.   But to feel like by God's grace I've grown a little bit and can believe in myself and the talents I've been given, I can't tell you how excited it is to feel that out on the course.   And I can't wait to try again tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Jason, comment on today's round for me.   
JASON ALLRED:   Well, let's see:   Another beautiful day.   So starting out, thankfully I hit a couple nice shots and happened to make a nice twirl and putt on the first hole, for an unexpected birdie, really.   
And I don't know, I mean, there's a mix of good nerves and also nerves that might be counterproductive.   But I get, from the get‑go, hope to settle me in.   And having so many friends and family here, grew up not too far from here, it's been a blast to enjoy it and embrace it.   
I felt really in control when I had a lot of things going well, good breaks, good putts went in.   I played a little tentative and careful, didn't hit very good shots on, let's see, 11, 12, 13.   
So then to play, birdie 14, I went for the green, had a great shot, made a nice birdie.   And then the eagle on 15, total bonus, especially in this format.   And then to finish off with some good shots, too.   It felt great to kind of right the ship, so to speak.  
   
 Q.   Not to get ahead of yourself, but a win anywhere would be great, but what would a win here mean to you?  
JASON ALLRED:   Gosh, on one hand I have no idea because I haven't been there before.   But I'm sure, it sure would be a blast to do that.   
I think whether it happens or tomorrow or not, I sure hope it does.   But I feel like I'd really enjoy it.   Feel like I've been through the ups and downs enough, I love this game.   So grateful for the chance that I have still to do it.   
I think it would be a blast, whether it's here or sometime down the road.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT