NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 15, 2014
Jason Allred
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Growing up here, what does it mean to get it done at Riviera?
JASON ALLRED:   Yeah, it's so special to be back in this Pepperdine area.   Coach is one of my best friends in the world and he had a lot of the team out here today so just a really special treat to be here. 

Q.   After a solid round, what are your thoughts? 
JASON ALLRED:   Really I told my wife a couple weeks ago, if I can look back on the week and say I really enjoyed it and stayed present in the moment, whatever happens I'll be proud of myself for that.   It's a challenge at times.   This is somewhat of a new situation for me but I sure a.m. having fun being and I praise God for that because my tendency is to try so hard and so well and it feels so good to be out there and have a blast.   

Q.   Coach brought the whole team out? 
JASON ALLRED:   They are on their way to a tournament down in Palm Desert today, so I think they pushed their departure out a couple hours and came out here and cheered me on, which meant the world, it was great. 
Yesterday was one of most fun rounds I've ever played and one of the best rounds I have ever played, too.   My caddie, Keith Nolan is doing a great job helping me, just really hitting each shot the very best I can and enjoy it the most I can.   Literally before every shot, I just say, see how much fun you can have on this shot, and you know, there's so many things you can't control in golf, and I'm just trying to do well with the things I can.   It sure has been fun to do that.

Q.   How do you compare this gallery‑‑
JASON ALLRED:   Gosh, yesterday I happened to hit a great shot at 14 and I made a great putt there today, and making the putt on 18, is probably the most excitement I felt from the crowd really ever in my career.   I'm just so‑‑ I can't tell you how much it means to me to be able to be at a place in my life, I just have so much to be thankful for with my amazing family, it just feels great to be out here and soak it up. 

Q.   Your third child on the way‑‑
JASON ALLRED:   Yeah, exactly, February 28. 

Q.   Monday qualifier, now in the mix going into Sunday, how much has this exceeded your expectations? 
JASON ALLRED:   On one hand, I need to be honest, it's totally blown them out of the water.   But you know what, also to be honest, even when I go out to practice, whether it's to prepare for a gate way tournament or this week, I still have that belief in me that I have in me to win big golf tournaments.   You know, at times, even I have a hard time believing that over the years, but it sure is fun to be out here and be able to have a chance. 

Q.   Is this a new type of approach for you, enjoying each shot, trying to hit your best shot, is this something you've battled with throughout the years?
JASON ALLRED:   You know what, I think it really has been.   I love this game so much, and I feel like I have it in me to do some special things in this game, so I think with that, it's been a blessing and a curse.   I just expect so much of myself and try so hard to do so well, sometimes I get in the way of that.   You know, I'm certainly a work‑in‑progress, I have a lot of growing to do, but it has been satisfying to feel some growth in that; by God's Grace, almost despite me sometimes, I feel like I'm growing.   It's exciting.

Q.   You talked about enjoying it and the family and other things in your life; has there been a point in recent years where you thought about doing something different? 
JASON ALLRED:   Yeah, last summer, I really never thought of doing anything else as far back as I can remember and last summer I was conditional on the Web.com and not getting any starts, and for the first time I really thought through and talked to my wife and talked to my dad about it.   I feel like I can still do things in this game but I have a family to take care of that mean the world to me, so I really thought about it for the first time.
And through that, to my amazing wife's credit and great people around me, it's been fun to kind of refocus and get back at it. 

Q.   Did you ever think of doing something else specific? 
JASON ALLRED:   There's nothing really specific in mind.   Seems like coaching would be a lot of fun and I love working with youth and kids but to be honest I don't really know.

Q.   Because of everything you've gone through, were you sure to get copies of all the papers with your picture on the front page?
JASON ALLRED:   I didn't see it actually but that would be great, my wife would probably appreciate one of those.   She went to Pepperdine, also, that's where we met.   I miss her so much.   I wish she could be here but she's taking care of our family and like I said, I think we are about ten days from our due date so she's trying to stay off her feet. 

Q.   From last summer to now, how did you change it and what were the techniques or mental tricks that got you to where you are now? 
JASON ALLRED:   That's a good question.   Part of it, I 100% couldn't do it without the amazing people in my life starting with my wife and parents and my sponsor now, Brett Edson has been just an incredible mentor and friend.   I was just writing out a page, to have a clear path, everything, what my goals are, how I'm going to practice. 
I refocused on my short game, I tried for a lot of years to hit the ball perfect and I think I'm at my best when I let it rip a little more and get it in the hole.   It's not always pretty but it's felt good to do that. 
As you can see, I still struggle with over‑trying at times and definitely play on the slower side but more and more I'm getting a little more free and it's exciting.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT