NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 14, 2014
Jason Allred
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What a round of golf today, I picked you up at 13, tell me about the bunker shot at 14?  
JASON ALLRED:   That's deeper than I thought.   I'm still fairly new around here but that's a deep one.   Thankfully it didn't plug, it was just out of the pitchmark on the upslope.   It was still a pretty tough shot but I had a great lie and just one of those ones that I‑‑ inaudible‑‑ bonus it went in, that was fun.   
My caddie is doing a great job helping me pick out good targets, but 15, with a 5‑iron in there, that's not really a pin‑‑ you know, part of it, it was so much fun today, but also, I'm learning as I go.   So I think I just got a little‑‑ I was having fun and felt good but just a little rushed and ahead of myself maybe.   But I'm learning and hopefully I can do better next time.   
A couple of those holes, it's like, man, I didn't know all these slopes were here.   This is just so much fun for me.   I went to school at Pepperdine just down the road and a couple years I didn't get into this tournament so I'm just having a lot of fun.   
   
 Q.   How many times have you played this course?   
JASON ALLRED:   Let's see, I played in 2008, my second year on TOUR, I played one practice round because I was maybe fourth or fifth alternate, and then I played it on Tuesday a couple times before I teed it up.   
   
 Q.   I think your last PGA TOUR event or big TOUR event was the 2010 U.S. Open?   How did you feel out there?   Was it an adrenaline rush, especially going low like that?   Did nerves kick in at all or what was it like?   
JASON ALLRED:   Yeah, they definitely did, but for the most part it was in a really good way.   The caddie, again, he's doing a great job, and it's so fun to feel butterflies.   At times I've dealt with them when it's‑‑ I've played fearful but it's fun, I keep telling myself, this is I didn't practice, to get in a place where I'm feeling nervous like that.   Again, it's such a unique challenge to be out there and deal with the emotions.   I told my wife a couple days ago, if I can go through this weekend and just look back and be able to look back and say I really enjoyed it and stay present, I'll be happy.   Thankfully I did that.  
Naturally I would have loved to finish off my round a little better today but even with that I'm going to give every shot my very best.   
   
 Q.   Did any numbers start going through your head or do you stay in the moment?  
JASON ALLRED:   Some of both.   I think after that bunker shot went in, it was such an exciting shot and that gave me a little adrenaline rush, so I think that's where I hopefully can be better equipped next time to just setting down a little bit because I look back and from then on, I just felt a little click with my swing.   I hit some pretty good shots coming in.   
   
 Q.   Any weird rhythm?  
JASON ALLRED:   I thought it was great.   It was really nice.   I'm a slower player, and I'm always working on that so it was nice to be able to enjoy the walk and not really worry about keeping up.   We just had a great time.   It was peaceful.  
   
 Q.   What happened to your third player?   
JASON ALLRED:   Unfortunately he had a rough day yesterday.   
   
 Q.   Did you notice the string of birdies‑‑  
JASON ALLRED:   Yeah, I did.   I would be lying if I said I didn't.   Really when I was hitting my best shots and best feeling putts is when‑‑ before every shot, I wouldn't try to ignore it.   I would actually take a second look around, like this is so cool, I'm at Riviera, playing a great round, and just have a blast with it.   And also, I just kept telling myself, I only get to hit a shot one time, so go hit it the best you can.  
   
 Q.   Obviously 64, all parts of your game are working but is there one certain aspect that's going better than others?   
JASON ALLRED:   Yeah, today I made several nice putts.   I didn't make anything crazy long but I made probably four or five nice 15‑footers, which on these greens is really fun and a bonus to go in.   
I think more than anything, my caddie, he did a great job helping me pick out good targets.   You can't go crazy out there because it will bite you pretty quick but I felt like I was able to make aggressive swings and pick good targets.   
   
 Q.   Did you look up to Jason Gore?   
JASON ALLRED:   Yeah, certainly be a Pepperdine guy, and he graduated about a year and a half before I got there, but that's a big part of why I went to Pepperdine, won the National Championship, and he's always been so kind to me.   It's fun to get to play this week with him.   
   
 Q.   He made the cut.   
JASON ALLRED:   Great.   That's awesome.   
   
 Q.   What courses did you guys play?   
JASON ALLRED:   We mostly went to Northridge Country Club, Calabasas, and one day we would go to Bel‑Air and tee off really early, I loved it.   
   
 Q.   You're in the mix obviously going into the weekend.   How are you going to manage that and handle that?   Just keep doing what you're doing?   
JASON ALLRED:   Yeah, definitely.   My thing is I want to be great at what I can control.   There are so many things after my club hits the ball I can't control‑‑ I'm totally a work‑in‑progress but if I can be great with my attitude and decisions, and like I said, look back and just feel as if I had a blast, those are my goals for the weekend and certainly it goes without saying, I want to play score‑wise, but I feel like if I can do those things, the score will happen.   
   
 Q.   And how‑‑ is this the first Monday qualifier you played in this year?   
JASON ALLRED:   I went to Hawai'i and I tried at San Diego and Phoenix.  
   
 Q.   So what clicked this week?   
JASON ALLRED:   Part of it really, I just felt a lot of freedom because my wife is two weeks from having our third child, so we had‑‑ my family, I'm so thankful for them and I try to make them my priority, so we planned my schedule the best I could.  
But when it came to leaving‑‑ we were sitting on the couch on Saturday when I was getting ready to leave for her, it hit my wife she was going to be alone and thankfully her mom was able to fly down.   I almost didn't come here so thought I might as well let it rip, and just be able to look forward to having our third child, that's helped.   This is a game that I love, but I try too hard sometimes, put it in perspective.  
   
 Q.   Where is your wife?   
JASON ALLRED:   Scottsdale.   Got the best wife supporting me, Kimberly.   But naturally if I get that call, I'll be out of here in a minute.   
   
 Q.   Did you know what the course record is?   
JASON ALLRED:   No.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT