NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL INVITATIONAL
July 13, 2007
Jason Allred
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  One of our co-leaders today, 5-under par, Jason Allred.  Thanks for coming by and spending a few minutes with us.   
 JASON ALLRED:  My pleasure.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Second round sub-70, so nice playing.  You're at the halfway point.  Just some comments on your round.   
 JASON ALLRED:  Yeah, I feel like at the halfway point I met my goal.  I feel like if the weather stayed decent I really wanted to try to shoot -- I felt like if I shot something in the 60s every day I would be right there on Sunday.  So it feels great that I've done that.   
 Granted we're only halfway done, but it's been a great couple days.   
 THE MODERATOR:  What's been the key for you up to this point.   
 JASON ALLRED:  More than anything just my attitude the last couple days.  I feel like the last couple months my game has been good.  I feel like I've been out there -- I've had a couple middle of the packs misses and a couple missed cuts.  But every time I'm out there I feel like I'm close.  Just letting go a little bit this week.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Got off to a little bit of a slow start at the beginning of year.  You've had to fight your way back.  Currently in the top 100 on the Money List, but still a good ways to go.  Are you putting any pressure on yourself at this point?   
 JASON ALLRED:  Like I said, that's probably the biggest difference this week.  I put so much pressure on myself ordinarily, especially since I started out.  I had such high hopes for the year.  I had to struggle early and just kept putting more pressure on myself and beating myself up a little bit.  It feels really be out there and let it rip a little more.   
 THE MODERATOR:  How about a few thoughts on the golf course.  It's obviously been a tough test this week.   
 JASON ALLRED:  Yeah.  I love this course.  I missed the cut last week, so I was happy to come down here a little early and walked around Sunday afternoon.  It was just such a beautiful afternoon.  No clouds.   
 That was really good for me, just to walk around and pray and think about a game plan, strategy.  Such a great golf course.  First time I set foot on it I was like, Man, if I can just hit it in the middle of every green I'll be able to make a lot of pars.  It's a great course.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Let's go through your card, if we can.  Bogey on No. 1.   
 JASON ALLRED:  Yeah.  I hit a really good drive and a decent wedge.  I was kind of in between clubs and 3-putted from about 25 feet.  Birdie on 4.  Yeah, I hit is good drive and a good 4-iron.  It was kind of a dicey move, but gave it a rip and 2-putted from probably 40 feet.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Okay.  No. 7.   
 JASON ALLRED:  Driver, you know, probably not everyone hits driver there, but I like to hit it down there with a wedge, and then hit a good wedge to about four feet.   
 13, bogeyed that hole yesterday, so it felt great to step up and hit is really good tee shot probably 12 feet right behind the hole.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Which club?   
 JASON ALLRED:  6-iron.   
 THE MODERATOR:  16.   
 JASON ALLRED:  Hit 2-iron off the tee for about 85 yard shot to eight feet or so right behind the hole.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Talk about this tournament.  A little bit of a different format for you guys with all the amateurs here this week.  Does to make it a little bit more exciting?   
 JASON ALLRED:  I haven't thought about the field that much.  That being said, as soon as I set foot here it has a great atmosphere about it.  The tour and everyone here has done a great job.  To be in the first year of the tournament and have that feel has been pretty special.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 JASON ALLRED:  That's a good question, because, I mean, I would be lying if I said I didn't think about winning on Sunday.  With that being said, my goal every shot is just to get up and let it rip.   
 You know, I think I've gotten away from that a little.  I've just been so careful about everything.  Just haven't been me out there.  I just feel like if I can -- whether I'm over or under par, if I just (indiscernible) the shot I feel like I can execute that shot as well as I can.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 JASON ALLRED:  Yeah.  Kind of between clubs.  The wind was starting to swirl a little bit there and just couldn't commit to that shot.  Came over it and pulled and was a little long.  I went way long left.   
 Thankfully it was in a spot where I had a lot of green to work with, because it was really fast downhill.  Kind of one of those shots that I just dropped it out there and with the green being so fast I didn't have to do much.   
 That was one of my favorite up and downs of the day, one of my favorite times of the day, just to not give away a shot going in.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 JASON ALLRED:  If you miss in the wrong spot, definitely.  The greens are I think just a little over a year old or so.  From the fairway you can get some grab on it, but from chipping, if you're on a short (indiscernible) it's pretty tough to keep it close to the hole.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Any plans heading into the weekend?   
 JASON ALLRED:  Same thing.  Just going to try to have a lot of fun.  Just going try to hit it in front of the green and give myself a lot of chances.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT