INDIANA UNIVERSITY BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
January 18, 2014
Stanford Robinson
Noah Vonleh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







<span style="font-weight:normal; "></span>
Q.   What was Northwestern doing to make it hard to get to the basket? 
STAN ROBINSON:   Just a lack of ball reversal.   We didn't move the ball like we did against Wisconsin.   You know, it kind of closed up a lot of lanes, stopped me and other people from being able to drive it. 

Q.   How disappointing is this game in general after what you guys did on Tuesday? 
STAN ROBINSON:   It's a very big disappointment because, I mean, just to get it moving, we actually took a step back now, and so we have to take a couple steps forward just to catch up to where we were. 

Q.   What made it hard to get to the rim? 
NOAH VONLEH:   They had Olah in the middle.   He's a pretty big dude, so whenever Yogi drove he'd have his hands straight up, and it was tough to score over him.   He's a seven‑footer.   They were just closing the gaps, making it tough to get passes.   That was about it. 

Q.   Noah, I know you guys are disappointed with the loss but you only had the nine turnovers.   How has that improvement come along? 
NOAH VONLEH:   We just keep working on not turning the ball over in practice.   When guys turn the ball over, you have to get on the wall for the number of turnovers you have, that's how long you stay on the wall, and I think it's really starting to‑‑ guys are really starting to pick that up and be more careful with the ball.

Q.   Stan, defensively the game is tied, I think, 40‑40, what did you not do defensively down the stretch? 
STAN ROBINSON:   I think our communication.   I think we got quiet.   Our communication dropped.   I feel like we could have picked it up.   I mean, basically we were moving, holding ours, but our communication was very poor today. 

Q.   Did you feel like you guys didn't come out with enough intensity as far as carryover from the last game?   What do you attribute the slow start to? 
STAN ROBINSON:   I just think we came out and just played.   I don't think we thought the game today.   Just thinking‑‑ I guess we thought the same things that were in the Wisconsin game was going to be there in the Northwestern game today.   I mean, they were, but it just didn't happen as early.   We tried to force it instead of just letting it happen. 

Q.   Noah, especially in the second half it seemed like there was more emphasis on getting you the ball. 
NOAH VONLEH:   Yeah, Coach brought it up.   He told the guards to get the ball inside because they always send guys if I can't score, I'll be able to kick it out, and I kicked it out to Yogi at the top a couple times.   We just didn't convert. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT