BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 25, 2015
Daniel Gaunt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DANIEL GAUNT:   When you get off to a good start like that, sort of kick starts your day.   All I wanted to do was just keep progressing from there and chase down the leaders, really.   But overall, to hole that putt on the last, and a great shot in to finish with a really good putt again was icing on the cake today.

Q.   I appreciate it's only the first day but nice to have your name right at the top of the board, isn't it?
DANIEL GAUNT:   Yeah, I'm not going to say too much about that because I was at the top in Morocco and I didn't even make the cut.   I'm not going to take anything for granted.   I've got a good caddie on the bag now and he's keeping me in the present, which is something I don't do when I'm having a good score.   Usually I get way ahead of myself and start chasing and start thinking about other holes before I've hit a shot.   It was a good team effort today.

Q.   You were with Ronnie in Austria recently and there were signs that the game is moving nicely?
DANIEL GAUNT:   Yeah, I'm a very quick player and Ronnie slowed me down, and I think for the best.   Our yardages have been pretty much spot on for two weeks.   I've been playing better and better and better and I'm feeling more comfortable out here in the situation now.   I'm off early and the greens are going to be even better tomorrow morning.   One shot at a time and keep going tomorrow morning.

Q.   Looking at the stats, they have made pretty decent reading.   You've been doing a lot of things well but not necessarily getting the scores and the reward. 
DANIEL GAUNT:   Exactly.   I think my greens and regulation have gone up and my driving stats have gone up, putting has stayed the same.   Over the last couple years, I have felt that I've played really good golf but not getting the scores because the putts are not going in.   I know when I putt well, I'm going to contend.   Hopefully I can continue for three more days.

Q.   As you've touched on Morocco, I'm sure you don't want to be reminded of it, but what have you learned from it? 
DANIEL GAUNT:   It's just staying in the present.   Like I get up on the first tee in the second round and I think, wow, I'm in the lead, let's keep pushing on.   I think the main thing I've learned is that you can't play great golf for four days. 
I had a great chat with Robert Rock, I played with him last week and in Austria, as well, and he's been a massive help to me.   Just the way I think around the golf course; prepare myself and just carry on and stay in the present, I think that's the biggest key.
I'm just a fiery person and I want to win, so if I don't, then‑‑ I do really want to win, but I've just got to take my time and when it comes, it comes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT