NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v BRAVES
October 16, 1999
John Olerud
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. John, after going 0 for 9 with five strikeouts against this guy, did you take a
different approach on your at-bat?

JOHN OLERUD: Yeah, I've tried a bunch of different approaches off him and haven't had a
whole lot of success. I just went up there trying to get a good pitch to hit. I was
looking for a fastball and trying to adjust to the breaking ball.

Q. John, after the double-steal, how did it change the at-bat in your favor?

JOHN OLERUD: I don't think it really changed the at-bat. He was mainly concentrating on
getting me out, and so I don't think that it changed things a whole lot.

Q. John, does this kind of win break some of the frustration of these guys beating you?
How much does this mean to you? 

JOHN OLERUD: Well, it's a big win for us. To get the lead, to lose it late in the
ballgame, and then to come back and get the win and to get a couple of runs off Rocker,
who we really haven't done much against, I think it's a big win for us. We just haven't
been able to get the runs, or get enough runs to beat these guys. And so it's definitely a
good feeling to get the win.

Q. John, can you talk about the way you guys just seem to thrive every time you face
adversity, how you find a way to rise out of it?

JOHN OLERUD: Yeah, that just seems to be the way it's been working out. It hasn't been
our choice to do it that way. It's been a tough road, making it to the playoffs. And we've
had some tough stretches, but we've been able to battle and get back in the playoffs, that
sort of thing. And hopefully, that will be the situation here. I think going through that
tough time helps guys to know that we can get on a good roll; we can get things turned
around. Hopefully that will help us in this series.

Q. John, what was the pitch, and when you hit it, did you think it was going to get
through?

JOHN OLERUD: Yeah, it was a fastball down and away. And I hit over the top of it a
little bit. When I saw it going up the middle, I didn't know if it was going to get
through or not. I've hit balls that I thought had a chance to get up the middle, and they
didn't. But I was definitely rooting for it, I'll tell you that.

Q. As someone who's been in enough playoff series to have both good and bad ones, when
you go into a slump in a postseason situation, is it harder to come out of it than it is
during the regular season, because of the importance of the game and the media attention?

JOHN OLERUD: I don't know. That's a good question. You don't have a whole lot of time
to get out of slumps. Each game, you're going as hard as you can, trying to make the most
of each game. I don't know, I think you're just playing your best for that particular
game. Tomorrow is a new game and you put the last game behind you. So I don't know that
you necessarily look at it as slumps so much as each day is a new day, and you go out and
hopefully get it turned around.

Q. How long after you were traded, how long did it take you to feel like you belonged
in this city, in this place?

JOHN OLERUD: I would say probably midway through the first year. I got to know the guys
real well, a good group of guys. Really liked the coaching staff; got along with them real
well. And then as far as getting to know the city and that sort of thing, that took a
while, because it's an intimidating place, or at least it was for me the first time in. So
I think the more I got to know the city and the more I got to know my way around, the more
comfortable I felt.

Q. John, is there any kind of reaction on the bench, amusement or chuckles, about the
way the fans react to Chipper Jones and to Rocker?

JOHN OLERUD: I don't know. I haven't really heard anything in particular. I'm usually
out in the field when they're coming up, so I haven't heard. I know that -- it's very
obvious that the fans are giving him most of their attention, but I haven't heard guys
comment on it too much.

Q. You were talking about the time it took you to get used to the city. Didn't I read
somewhere that you take the subway into work and you stop at the same old places going
home for dinner? Have you become a New Yorker?

JOHN OLERUD: Well, I take the subway occasionally. I don't take it all the time. Most
of the times, I drive into the ballpark. But occasionally, I do take it. And there was a
pizza place that I would go to every so often after some day games and get a pizza. I
don't know if that makes you a New Yorker or not. (Laughter).

Q. John, on the double-steal, were you looking for the pitch the way you liked it, or
were you taking it all the way?

JOHN OLERUD: No. In that situation I'm still looking for a good pitch to hit. If I get
a pitch to hit, I'm swinging in that situation.

Q. Where was it?

JOHN OLERUD: It was a breaking ball down.

Q. As someone who has never said anything controversial in his life, when you hear
quotes from Rocker, what do you think?

JOHN OLERUD: You're trying to get a controversial statement right there, aren't you?
No, I think everybody has got their opinion, and what anyone wants to say is just fine.

Q. How devastating is Rocker? He looked overwhelming last night. Is he just lucky? How
tough is he?

JOHN OLERUD: Yeah, he's real tough. He's got a great fastball, good slider, good
breaking pitch. Both of them he can throw for strikes; so you really can't rule out one
particular pitch, and so that makes it tough.

Q. Is he intimidating for a left-hander?

JOHN OLERUD: Yeah, I think so. I think a guy that throws hard like that and has a good
breaking pitch, you're trying to get a good pitch to hit.

Q. But you're not intimidated by that? You can make contact?

JOHN OLERUD: Yeah, I'm going up there, and I'm just concentrating on getting a good
pitch to hit and trying to have a good at-bat. That's what I'm up there thinking.

Q. John, was there any discernible drop in the nastiness of his pitches, the second day
in a row?

JOHN OLERUD: I didn't think so. I thought he had good stuff. I thought he threw the
ball real well.

Q. John, you moved up to the second slot in the batting order, and mentally, the
different things you must do as the second batter, can you adjust to that kind of quick?

JOHN OLERUD: For me, I haven't noticed a real big difference. I know that there are
some other responsibilities as far as the No. 2 hitter is concerned, but I'm still going
up there trying to have good, quality at-bats and hit the ball hard somewhere. So I think
my preparation for the at-bats is the same. I think just sometimes the situation comes up
that might require you to do something a little different, as far as moving runners over
and that sort of thing.

Q. Rocker obviously had gotten the best of you the first two times in this series. He's
coming in, the game is on the line, the crowd is thinking: What are you thinking on the
on-deck circle while you're waiting and he's warming up?

JOHN OLERUD: I'm thinking about what kind of pitches I'm going to get; how he's going
to pitch to me; how he's pitched me in the past; what the best way is to approach him,
that sort of thing.

Q. I apologize if you addressed this. Cedeno was saying when he saw Rocker come into
the game that he talked about not worrying about runners on base because he had such great
success. Do you think that on their part that is not a wise move, even though you haven't
hit him very well?

JOHN OLERUD: Well, he hasn't had a whole lot of trouble getting me out. I'm sure that
his main focus was throwing strikes to me, as opposed to changing his -- throwing over to
first base. I'm sure his main focus was getting me out because he's been very successful
getting me out.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT