THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 23, 2018
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What happened?  What didn't go well this week?
RICKIE FOWLER: I haven't been swinging it great the last -- it was okay in Kapalua, but I would say the last, what's that, month, month and a half, it hasn't been great.  Obviously playing in the wind, it will pick you apart even more.  I had spurts of good stuff in Phoenix.  That's why we were in contention.
I actually made some of my better swings on the back nine coming in today.  The front nine out there, actually 6, I hit what I thought was a perfect 5-iron.  Started where I wanted to.  I thought the wind would move it 15 yards and it moved it 25-plus and there's a double-bogey.  I made two great swings.
So yeah, it's close.  Like I said, a little bit off and the wind is going to make it look like you're a terrible weekend golfer.
Q. What do you have to say about the greens and the thin grass and condition?
RICKIE FOWLER: Everyone is playing the same greens.  I'll leave it at everyone is playing the same greens.
Q. What are the challenges like out there?
RICKIE FOWLER: It's tough.  I mean, she just mentioned, not much grass on the greens.  You get them a little downhill, downwind; I had some chips that I thought I hit decent that might have came out a little hotter than I wanted to, and thought, I'll have three, four feet and you end up with 15 to 18.
It's unfortunate that the greens have changed this much in a year.  I mean, they typically get slick and quick on the weekend because they dry out, but at least there's some sort of surface.
But like I said, everyone's playing the same greens.  I know Luke went out, Luke List shot 66 today.  That's a great round of golf.  The big thing is, you have to play well tee-to-green.  Like I said, ball-striking being a little bit off, the wind is going to pick you apart.  That's where you've got to play this golf course.
You can't rely on putting and stuff like that to help you in your round.  A lot of these, you've got to play a lot of defense today.  2-putt pars were great.  There's not many holes that we're able to be aggressive.
Q. What's off with the swing?
RICKIE FOWLER: Some of it's just kind of commitment, trust.  Treed up like I said a little bit on the back nine.  Felt like I got some good work coming into the week.  Maybe just got a little quick.
There were some really good shots.  I hit great shots both yesterday and today.  Just too many bad swings.
Q. When the conditions are this tough, maybe the greens aren't as good as you'd like, how much stock do you put in the result?
RICKIE FOWLER: I mean, it would be nice to be playing the weekend but like I said, I know I made some good swings, made some good swings coming into the last nine holes.  Kind of looked more at the positives than dwelling on the negatives.
It's playing tough out there.  Like I said, it will pick you apart, just must miss a shot, one groove, just a little bit toe or heel.  It's hard to get the ball close on a lot of holes out there.
So focusing more on the positives.  I feel like, like I said, it's not far off.  It will be nice to have the weekend to get some work in, whether it's out doors, indoors, combo of both.
I actually just got a simulator at the house.  If we can dial that in and then go out and see how much the wind is affecting it -- so it will be fun to get some more work in.  Playing the Seminole Pro/Member on Monday and then we go to altitude.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT