THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 1, 2017
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Always nice to play for your country and you've done it several times.  What's special about this one?  
RICKIE FOWLER: I mean, to come here and play as well as we did as a team, I mean, the International Team are world-class players.  There are some matches that could have went either way.  We played really good as a team.  To putt up that many points on the board -- I know it probably wasn't the best of days today but as a team we put ourselves in a pretty good decision.   
 Q.  Does it make any difference playing in the shadow of that city?  
RICKIE FOWLER: It's a pretty special backdrop.  It's probably the best you could ask for:  It's the Presidents Cup and we've got the Statue of Liberty right there and the backdrop of Manhattan.  It's pretty cool.   
 Q.  The American Team, you've got everything working right now.  Where can this go?  
RICKIE FOWLER: We had some rookies on the team that showed they can go out and play and they are not afraid, which we knew.  It's a little different when you actually get to the stage of playing team golf for your country.   
I was proud of myself.  It's nice to have a winning record.  Haven't really done that yet.  Had a great time playing with Justin.  Yeah, it's been a great week, and with one of the best backdrops you can have for this event.   
 Q.  How would you describe how much fun it is to come out with the guys and get Ws?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Well, winning makes it even more special.  But even the first couple Ryder Cups I was a part of where we didn't exactly win, you create some kind of lifelong friend ships with guys that are on teams with you.  It's a different kind of friendship after spending a long week together.   
 Q.  How about Strick and the job he did, and can you see him involved going forward in events like this?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Strick is going to be around for a while.  He's a special guy.  He's been awesome to play for.  He's someone that you know how he feels and he shows his emotion.  You know how much this means to him in the year leading up to this, and the time I spent on the task force with all the guys, especially him.  It's kind of been a long time coming that we knew we were going to be playing for him.  It's been fun to finally get to do it this week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT