ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 7, 2020
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Congrats on winning best dressed today.  
RICKIE FOWLER: It's fitting. Definitely go for that. No, Puma has gone a great job with the colab with the Arnie and Winnie Palmer Foundation, the Saunders and the rest of the Palmer family. It's fun.   
 Q.  Are you typically a cardigan guy off the course?  
RICKIE FOWLER: I am not, no. This may be the only time that I do wear a cardigan, but like I said, very fitting.   
 Q.  Can you talk about the conditions out there today, it seems it's always --  
RICKIE FOWLER: I thought it was pretty easy. No, it's, this golf course is a good test without any wind and without much rough, but you -- obviously we have got a decent amount of rough this week and the greens are definitely baked pretty good. Yeah, it's just hard. There's no real other way of explaining it. It's hard. You got to drive the ball in the fairway and then it's hard getting the ball close to the hole and even keeping it on some greens when you're down or cross wind. So it's not easy. I wouldn't -- it would be -- I think a lot of people are sitting at home saying what they would do out here, but I wouldn't wish it on any average or normal player to go try and play what we did out there.   
 Q.  People watching it at home, what's a shot that you hit today the most difficult shot you hit that people at home can't even fathom?  
RICKIE FOWLER: One of the most difficult might have been the second drive on 6. Or the next shot after I hit the second one in the water. Those ones are always some of the most difficult because, one, it's already a fine line you're picking and having to fit the ball in and where the ball needs to land. When you've made a mistake or you hit one in the water and you got to go back and hit another one, kind of, to hit a good shot after that is very hard, you're typically going to miss or err the complete opposite way. Those are some of the harder ones. Unfortunately, I wasn't able to get true that hole very cleanly, but it is what it is. I mean, other than that hole I played a pretty solid round of golf so I can't be too upset. A couple putts slid by and like I said, other than the one hole it was a pretty solid day tee to green.   
 Q.  What happened on the first drive there?  
RICKIE FOWLER: I caught it a touch on the toe. So it started a fraction left and it was down off the right there, just didn't have enough air under it. It was -- actually, the line it was on, if it's hit well, it covers. But like I said I caught it a little on the toe so typically downwind it's going to be one that's -- it was holding its flight, but it wasn't carrying as much, it was diving a little bit. So it wasn't that I was trying to get greedy by any means and that's just something you deal with when you have a little bit of a mishit.   
And then I fatted a 5-iron to top it off after the second one. So it's golf and, yeah, I mean this golf course and these conditions, the way the course is playing, setup, like I said with rough, greens firm, fast, they're dry where there's not a whole lot of friction, there's nothing that really holds the ball, yeah, it will expose any little weakness or flaw or mishit or anything.   
 Q.  If you look at last week and this week, can you think of another stretch in golf where you have two back-to-back really difficult golf courses? Outside of the majors, I should say.  
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, but if you look at the winning score of last week and this week, most of the majors maybe only one might be a higher score, depending, obviously depending on conditions and whatnot, but it's very rare that you see single digit scores winning, single digit under par winning PGA TOUR events. And that's nothing against the players, just it shows you how hard it is. And for it to be not 8 or 9-under, last week was, what, 6? Yeah, it's pretty rare to see that. I mean, you can't explain or reiterate how much more difficult it is than just a standard setup.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT