BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 14, 2017
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Rickie, nicely done, 6 in a row.  I got to ask you, were you thinking about going for 18 in 2 there?
RICKIE FOWLER: I was definitely thinking about it.  I wanted to go.  I think it was 265 front.  That's my 3-wood number is 265.  I knew I was going to have to smash it and the wind in off the right.  Wasn't exactly ideal for it and especially with it being a Thursday, wasn't worth the risk.  Come Sunday if I'm in good position that will be a go and see what happens.
Q. Kind of a ho-hum round.  You almost holed the shot at 12 and things started rolling.  What changed for you?
RICKIE FOWLER: I think the swing with the 9-iron on 12 got me going and ended up making a good birdie on the next after I think I hit a ball down the path and it hit a marshal and -- not hit but glanced off him.  I ended up in a tough spot.
Ended up making another birdie and got things rolling from there and then got with 6 was a chip-in and really wanted 7.  That would have tied my highest for birdies in a row.
Q. You come in this week 6th in the FedExCup Points.  You know you're going to Atlanta.  You know how important it is to get in the Top 5.  Does that add anymore pressure to you?
RICKIE FOWLER: For the most part it's the least amount of pressure I've had the 3rd week of the Playoffs because we're obviously locked for next week.  I don't have to worry about that.  There's no cut here.  Can't fall that far back.
But it would be nice to make sure that we were inside that Top-5.  So, yeah, off to a good start and have fun the next two days.
Q. Great back-9, good round.  Good luck the rest of the way.
RICKIE FOWLER: Thank you.
Q. Rickie, what was the spark to get you going on the backside there?
RICKIE FOWLER: I think the biggest thing, I made a good swing with a 9-iron on 12.  Felt like I was in position to get the iron shots close and make birdies.  Really wasn't doing it.  Made a perfect swing there, almost flew in the hole, kind of got things going and made some more good swings, few good putts and nice chip-in on 7 to kind of extend the birdie streak and had a good look on 18.  Had a good putt.  Didn't break.  Nice solid start to the week.
Q. What was going on before you got to the 12th hole?
RICKIE FOWLER: Nothing crazy.  I wasn't really hitting any greens or hitting it close enough.  I wasn't taking advantage of the ones -- I did hit good drives I wasn't taking advantage of those.  4-iron into No. 8, the par 5 and made par.  I had -- missed a short one on -- I don't know if there was a footprint or maybe misread.  It broke off this world from three feet and somehow missed the whole hole.  That was on No. 7.
Yeah, some odd stuff on the front-9.  Had to stay patient.  Made some good up and downs, par putts from kind of 9, 10, 11, kind of keep things going and 12 kind of sparked things.
Q. Your short game was pretty good today.  How would you assess it?
RICKIE FOWLER: It was.  I would say really other than 7, not making the birdie putt there, that would have been another good up and down.  I hit the shot to make it up and down, just a weird putt but, yeah, short game was good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT