DELL TECHNOLOGIES CHAMPIONSHIP
September 3, 2017
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Pretty solid round, 66.
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, it was a good, solid day.  Got off to a nice start.  I think we were 4-under through seven and then just kind of cruised from there.  It would have been nice to get a couple more but nice to get some balls up-and-down.  I didn't do a very good job of that the first two days and made a few more putts today.  I made a lot of good swings the last couple holes coming in, so a nice positive to take into tomorrow.
Q. What were conditions like out there in the rain?
RICKIE FOWLER: Not as bad as it could have been.  It was for the most part kind of misty all day.  Kind of like what you're dealing with out there.  It's nice in here.
Yeah, I didn't use rain gear or anything.  I kind of like to have the minimal amount of layers on if possible.  So just kind of stayed under the umbrella.  I'd say we had that up a little over half the time.  But other than that, it did play a bit longer.  The golf course was softer, so you were able to get at some pins.  You had to be careful with some wedges and spinning the ball.  So I felt like I did a good job hitting my numbers with those when I needed to kind of control the distances.
Q. Over the last three years or so, the FedExCup Playoffs have really brought out sort of the best in the best players.  If you look at the winner's list, it's pretty much nothing but superstars.  Any explanation for that?
RICKIE FOWLER: Well, I mean, I think guys get -- sometimes not being in a good position, kind of back is up against the wall and knowing they need to make something happen.  Just talking individual tournaments to either their make sure they are set up for East Lake or move them forward.
I think in a lot of cases, when that happens, not every time, but guys that are the best players in the world find a way to just get the job done.  Not necessarily winning but just a good, solid week.  Maybe a good performance; hey, you need to finish top five this week, and just find a way to go do it.
I think something like this week, you're looking at Phil kind of back up against the wall, knowing he needs to do something to show Strick and the guys on the team that he still wants to be there.  It's amazing when guys are put in those situations, like you talked about a lot of guys that have been in the Playoffs to guys that have won the whole thing.
I mean, the shots that Rory hit down the stretch last year, holing out on the 16th hole, yeah, crazy stuff happens.  But it's no coincidence, I don't think.
Q. Is there something to be said for all the top players playing well after such a long season?  I'm sure everybody's tired.
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, I mean everyone's -- I wouldn't say worn out or too tired.  We're kind of used to it, and then I think everyone does a pretty good job scheduling-wise, knowing that that run from June to August, September, is going to be a long one.
So I feel like, you know, I've done things where I've taken some two-week breaks here and there to make sure that you're rested and ready to go, and then you wanting to play some golf and take care of business when you have to.
But the other thing is, too, I think a lot of top guys are spending the right amount of time in the gym and taking care of themselves and are ready to go out and play as much as they need to play.
Q. What would make this a great year for you?
RICKIE FOWLER: Well, major's out of the question now.  I'll take a FedExCup and enjoy the fall.
Q. What do you think about the fans coming out in the rain and the umbrellas and the rain gear?
RICKIE FOWLER: I think it's the best day to do it.  So I'm glad they took advantage of that.  I mean, you could -- I'd probably enjoy being on the couch sitting at home and watching a movie or something like that, but like I was telling my girlfriend, Allison, this morning, these are the days that my mom loved the most because there's typically less people.  You just bundle up, get warm and go cruise around.
So, yeah, you don't have to worry about too big of crowds, so as a spectator being out here, hopefully they enjoyed the day and got to see a lot of good golf.
Q. Going back to the FedExCup, obviously it would make a great year, but do you feel it's one of those years where maybe you haven't gotten as much out of it; you've played well, leading in putting and things like that.
RICKIE FOWLER: I've done a lot of things right.  Put myself in good positions.  Just haven't gotten the job done.
Q. Does it take something like that to, not validate you, but would it prove -- I guess feel better.
RICKIE FOWLER: No, I'd definitely feel better about it.  But I've already felt great about the year that we've had.  Yeah, I didn't accomplish all my goals but at least gave ourselves chances to do so.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT