THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 25, 2017
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 4-under par 66, a lot of good golf shots.
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, it was a nice, fairly simple day, other than the bogey on 11, the second hole out here.
Pretty stress-free.  Been driving it well this week, which is key around here.  You don't want it play out of the rough.  I think I missed three the first two days, and would have been nice to see a couple more putts go in today.  But still, solid round of golf and great spot to be going into the weekend.
Q. What was the key hitting so many good shots?
RICKIE FOWLER: Well, first of all, driving it well and giving myself plenty of opportunities to be playing from the short grass.  When you do that, there are definitely some long holes out here, some long irons, and you're kind of just playing for the middle of the green and take par.  But you do get a couple short irons and some wedges, and I was able to take advantage of that.
Being in the fairway, you can kind of get a little bit more aggressive and actually hit some shots close.
Q. Coming inside the Top-10 this week in FedExCup points.  What's your mind-set in the first event?
RICKIE FOWLER: Ultimately win, just like any event we tee it up at.  I think definitely the highest I've been in points going into the Playoffs and I want to make sure I stay inside the top 5 going into East Lake.
We're off to a good start but looking forward to a good weekend.  The last two days, I feel like I've driven it fairly well.  I've only missed three fairways, one of them which I thought was actually perfect and went through the fairway.  But playing out of the fairways is a big key here to take advantage of some of the shorter holes but also give you a chance to hit these longer ones in regulation.
I think that's what's led it to be more stress-free, hitting a decent amount of greens, getting the ball up-and-down.  Would have been nice to make a couple more putts today but nice to roll one in at the last.
Q. The last five starts, you have four Top-10s, including three top 5s.  What's the word you would use to describe your game right now?
RICKIE FOWLER: It's been very consistent.  It's definitely not easy out there but I feel like we've been doing a lot of good work away from tournaments and making sure that I'm coming in ready to go play and doing the right work leading up to the event the week of; not worrying too much about what the swing is doing or anything like that.  Like I said coming in, I'm already in a good spot and that way I can just kind of tighten things up and get ready to go play the golf course.
I think a lot of it, yeah, I've been driving it pretty well all year.  Bunker game has been great, which allows you to get a little bit more aggressive at times.  Putting has been good, as well.  So having the putter go and having the short game around the greens and bunkers, it kind of frees you up, because you are going at some of these pins.  You're able to attack a little bit more.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT