ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 6, 2020
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How would you assess your round out there today?  
RICKIE FOWLER: I was happy with it. Dealing with a different wind direction than we did yesterday, a little cooler this morning. But the temperature was nice. I enjoyed that. It was nice after being warm the last few days.   
Happy with how I played the middle part of my round and, really, 17, 18, 1, 2, and back into the wind, some holes that can eat you up pretty good if you're not careful. And to birdie 18 and 1 in the middle of my round was a nice little bonus.   
 Q.  How did the different wind direction make this course different/harder than it was yesterday?  
RICKIE FOWLER: I would say it was probably a little easier this morning than it was yesterday afternoon because the wind was a little softer. And I don't think it's supposed to pick up as much today as it did yesterday. But this golf course without any wind's tough as it is, just with some of the, with the rough and then some of the angles with the approach shots on the greens. But once you add the element of wind, 5 to 10 is enough, but I think yesterday afternoon was probably 15 to 20. Today it's kind of, I think supposed to stay between the 10 to 15 range. Yeah, it's not easy. But, yeah, I felt like yesterday afternoon I it played a little tougher than this morning, but both tough conditions.   
 Q.  Do you feel comfortable and confident with where you are in this tournament right now?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, I do. I feel like I'm -- I mean, over the last few weeks I've been heading the right direction and trending the right way. After not having some great first rounds to tournaments to start the year it was nice to get off to a solid start yesterday. Anything under par was good. And it should have been a little bit better this morning, but happy with where we're at. Yeah, someone could go out there and run a little bit, but I'm not going to be too far back regardless, and I know I can go get a good one tomorrow and put myself in a good spot for Sunday.   
 Q.  (Question about working with his swing coach.)  
RICKIE FOWLER: I'm really happy with where things have started and where they're going. JT and I are working primarily on what the body's doing and the sequencing and making sure that the body is moving properly. So it's not necessarily trying to move the hands and club in a certain spot. It's making the body kind of control the club through the swing. So when it comes to Thursday to Sunday it's go out and play golf, don't really worry too much about things we're working on, stick to some fundamentals and trying to keep it as simple as possible. And like I said, I like where we're at and with where we have been going the last few weeks and especially when we look around the corner, PLAYERS, obviously a place I had success, and then obviously everyone's looking at Augusta.   
 Q.  (Question about the Arnold Palmer Puma gear.)  
RICKIE FOWLER: I haven't heard any negatives. No. The Arnie gear has gone over really well. Last few years I think we started on the smaller side, just started with shoes and that's kind of grown into now there's going to be an Arnold Palmer line that will launch in June with Puma, obviously with all the proceeds going to the Arnold and Winnie Palmer Foundation. But to see it kind of grow and to see the Palmer family, the Saunders family, everyone here at Bay Hill and the foundation really working well with Puma, myself and everyone wants to do this together to have fun and ultimately raise money for the foundation. So no, it's been great. Obviously it's fun seeing a lot of people wearing the Puma P hats with the umbrella and I think the gear's been taken really well.   
 Q.  Do you tend to play better when everyone in the group is playing well?  
RICKIE FOWLER: I think when you look at any tournaments and guys are playing well in groups it's a lot easier to feed off and get things going. Leishman, Sungjae, both great guys, I spent a lot of time around Leish, getting to know Sungjae a little bit, an awesome guy, obviously an awesome player. So it was two easy guys to go play with out there and, but, yeah, it is easy to feed off guys and it's nice when it's going the right direction.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT