PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2017
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I saw your Tweet last night.  "It's on tomorrow."  Boy that was close.  You had a great run on the back side.  Four consecutive birdies.  Your thoughts on how you played today?
RICKIE FOWLER: Not too bad.  I mean, it would have been nice to get off to a little better shot on the front nine, but it's not easy with the first six holes really.  Not a whole lot of scoring opportunities there.  You drive it in the fairway, you are going to have some looks.  It's tough to do.  Four of those are par-4s and two tough par-3s.
It was good, it was fun to get on a run on the back nine.  Probably needed to get a couple on 16 through 18.  Made some good par saves.  Nice to come in.  We'll see.
I know Frank is playing the last and then obviously I'm not rooting against anyone out there.  JT is at 8.  I would like to see them keep playing well.
The Green Mile is no pushover and there's plenty of golf to be played.
Q. Talk about your par at 18.  Down in the creek you decided to chip out in the fairway and hit a great third shot to have a chance to make that putt?
RICKIE FOWLER: I usually aim up the left side and try to cut it back.  It went straight on me.  With the wind out of the right, it didn't help me.  It was plugged in the bank and just took a hack at it just to get it out.  Got it out fine, but half my ball was covered in mud so that made for an interesting third.  I had to hit a low one and trust that it wasn't going to do too much.  Worked out perfectly and made a great putt.
Q. Coming in today did you feel like you had a realistic chance of contending?
RICKIE FOWLER: I knew a still had a shot out here today.  I knew it was going to be tough.  I knew I needed to get off to a good start on the front nine.  You never know.  It wasn't like there were a bunch of guys up there.  With this golf course, especially the finish, anything can happen.  I knew I was going to have to post a pretty good round to have a chance, especially with it playing softer over the weekend.
It was a little unfortunate yesterday, the two 3-putts where I have been putting great all week, all year.  And then 8-iron on 17, where we didn't think water was in play with that to kind of -- I don't know if the breeze picked up a bit or what, so it's not like a made a bad swing or anything.  Just right on my line and maybe it was holding up into the wind too much.
Q. How do you assess your year in the majors?
RICKIE FOWLER: Pretty good.  I mean, I put myself in contention the first two.  It wasn't a great British, but not bad.
To be here, play solid the first two days and put myself in contention, was really in the mix until those last three yesterday.  Obviously I wasn't out of it, but it was going to take a really good round today to give ourselves a chance.
Nice coming off of last year.  Made all the cuts.  That's a good step.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT