THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 3, 2017
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. If you could talk about your day a little bit and about being in the position you are going into the final round?
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, it wasn't a great day, but with where we were and the lead was going into the day, now we're closer to the lead than when we started.  I guess that's the ultimate goal.  I would have liked to have been closer, I would like to have played better today.
Nice to make the birdie at the last, got kind of that one round, kind of two this week where we've managed to get around when we haven't had the best of swings and just to kind of work through today's struggles.  I felt like I had a really good warmup.  So I'm looking forward to it being a little bit different tomorrow.  A lot more fairways, a lot more greens and make some birdies.
Q. Do you pay attention to the leaderboard?  This was a fast changing leaderboard today, and obviously you have to pay attention to your own game, did you know what was going on in the last group?
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, I could see with the boards, and they're right behind us.  Obviously I hate to see Duf go out and get off to a bad start, him being a Buddy, I'd rather go try and chase him down rather than him come back to the field.  But it is what it is.  It's a four round golf tournament.  Obviously he got off to a great start.  Maybe this is the day where he kind of gets that bad round out and we may see a different Duf tomorrow.
All of us have to be ready to play.  The tournament is far from over.  And it's all about being in the right position on Sunday.  The first 54 holes, it's great and all, you can play as good as you want, but you've got to get the job done Sunday.
Q. Do you feel like you have some unfinished business from the first time you played here?
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, I know I can play here.  I've had a lot of good rounds.  It's nice to be here on the weekend after missing three straight cuts here.  I have been in contention a couple of times, one being a Sunday that wasn't great.  But I'm looking forward to tomorrow.  We're in a position a little ways back, but as you can see on this golf course a lot of birdies can happen and a lot of other things can happen.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT