THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 4, 2017
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You had a really strong round going up through 12 or 13.  Did you just feel like you kind of ran out of gas there, as far as making birdies?  
RICKIE FOWLER: No, not at all.  I made a lot of really good swings.  And when the rain started coming in, the ball getting wet, the ball starting to jump a little bit and go a little further and it's hard to play for that.  So I made special really good swings, the ball was going right where I wanted it to.  And that's why a couple of them were a little long in the back rough.   
18, I'm trying to get fairly aggressive at that hole location to make sure I keep Duf honest.  But, no, nothing bad to say about my golf today.   
 Q.  What is it like playing with him today, because you are such good friends?  
RICKIE FOWLER: It was fun.  Just being able to push each other, trying to feed off each other, as well.  I want to beat him just as bad as he wants to beat me.  But to see him make the putt on the last was cool.   
 Q.  You looked happier than he did after that putt?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Well, you expect -- it comes down to somewhat match play at that point.  You expect your opponent to make the putt.  But from 30 feet there on the last hole, that was a pretty solid putt.  To see it go in, he earned it, making a birdie on 17.  And he got the job done.   
 Q.  Did you say anything to him last night?  You even said yesterday, maybe he's got that round.  And maybe today he'll get right back into it.  He was pretty down after that last one last night?  
RICKIE FOWLER: We all hung out, we all had dinner at the course, me and Duf and Justin and Jordan.  It's not like we stay away from each other or anything like that.  We all have the same trainer, so we were all getting worked on after the round.  It's not like we were in separate quarters.  We were around each other.  I was around him after the round last night.  And sometimes you're talking about the round, good stuff, bad stuff.  But I wasn't worried about him.   
 Q.  What did Jack say to you afterward?  Looked like you had a fairly long --  
RICKIE FOWLER: You know, I'm close with Jack and Barbara, as well.  They've been great to me.  Living down in South Florida by where they are.  I was saying I couldn't get it done coming down the stretch, meaning I made the swings and couldn't convert and make the birdies.  I made the swings that I wanted to and unfortunately the ball was -- kind of had a mind of its own on the yardages.   
 Q.  You might end up with your tenth runner-up finish.  What do those ten finishes mean to you?  
RICKIE FOWLER: You look at Jack's runner-ups in majors, you have to put yourself in position.  You have to be there to get the job done.  And it just shows you that a lot of the time that you don't necessarily get the job done a high percentage of the time.  You have to be in contention.  The more that you're there, ultimately, the more that you're going to win.   
 Q.  Did two weather delays kind of throw anything into your game there?  
RICKIE FOWLER: No, not necessarily.  I kept making good swings.  The one thing that kind of threw off some of the numbers was the ball being wet in the fairways.  Other than that, like I said, I made really good swings coming in.  Made a great drive down 18.  But Duf makes the par at the last, and it's hard for me to make two.   
 Q.  Going an hour and 20 minutes thinking about one shot, essentially, what goes through your mind?  
RICKIE FOWLER: It's not bad.  Justin had 141 to the hole, which was a pitching wedge.  It would have been a lot different if it was a different kind of shot.  A wedge, you look forward to hitting.  It was just a little bit crosswind.  The ball above my feet.  Just tugged it a little bit.  And it flew a great number.  Just a touch left there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT