THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2017
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk about what happened on 18.  Have you ever seen something like that?  
RICKIE FOWLER: You play golf long enough you're going to see a ball get stuck in a tree, like Mark was saying.  A good way to look at it is at least we identified it so you can play from there, instead of losing it and having to go back to the tee.   
 Q.  What about the drop?  Was there any other option for you?  
RICKIE FOWLER: I could drop up straight directly underneath the ball, two club lengths, which is basically just going to be a pitch out and hit on the green.  With where I could drop it back in a straight line I had a clean lie and legitimately I knew I could get the ball on the green from there, which would have been great, knock it on, 2-putt and get out of there.  But if the ball ends up coming out of the tree, I chip out and make five at worst.  So, yeah, a little bit of a tough way to finish, giving away two shots there at least.   
 Q.  Any thought to you or Joe about scaling the tree to get up there and try to get it?  
RICKIE FOWLER: It wouldn't have mattered.  We identified the ball, so, yeah, that didn't matter.  It would have been nice if there would have been some way to play it, then we would have thought about climbing up.   
 Q.  How did the rain and wind impact play today?  
RICKIE FOWLER: We didn't deal with much rain.  We were warming up and it was sprinkling a little bit on the range, which wasn't bad.  The wind just continued to pick up more and more as the day went on and the back nine we were dealing with it quite a bit.  Around this golf course without wind it's a pretty fine line and then you start adding wind into the equation it makes this place, to the average golfer, almost impossible.  It's fun at times for us, but there's some holes out there that are not fun right now.   
 Q.  What's the game plan now?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Well we'll see where we end up.  How far back.  I know that it's not playing easy out there and I would like for the storms to stay away and the wind to stay up and give us a better chance to be closer to the lead, but you never know, you can't predict that.  If I end up in a position potentially six, seven back, you can shoot low here.  So we're still not out of it.  It would have been nice to get in at 2-, 3- or 4-, but just focus on getting a good one tomorrow and see what happens.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT