MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2017
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Review the day. What transpired for you and what didn't go right?
RICKIE FOWLER: I played nicely on the front. And hit a good shot into 10, which I rarely do. So that was kind of nice to get the back nine started that way. Ended up good break on 11. Thought I hit a good shot on the green. And really chipping and putting kind of went sideways on me. Every time I chipped it close I missed the putt or I didn't chip it close enough and I'd still miss the putt. 
So, yeah, somewhere yesterday I was able to fight through that from hitting the ball down, making some good key putts, and really didn't hit it any worse than I did yesterday. So when you're not able to get the ball up and down out here or make those key kind of five to ten‑footers, that's what happens.
Yeah, it would have been nice to swing a little better, like I have been. But that was a little off. And we fought through it great through the week in the wind yesterday, getting a lot out of the round, making sure we stayed in the golf tournament. But I didn't just hit the ball up and down or make the putts I needed to.

Q. You said you hoped you and Jordan would propel one another. Do you think that neither one of you were particularly sharp might have hurt both of you in a sense?
RICKIE FOWLER: No, not even close. We had a great time out there. We were playing together and, yeah, we both could have played better. Jordan finished nicely. If I just finished the way he did, it's a little different story putting up a decent round today. Bogeying the last three holes didn't help. And I didn't make anything today. I didn't make the putts that kind of continued to hold momentum or build momentum.

Q. How tough is it to make things happen on Sunday, and it's not happening?
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, you've got to be patient. We did a good job on the front nine, made a couple of bogeys, a couple of birdies, turned even. Felt good going to the back nine, felt I was going to get plenty of opportunities with a couple of pins and par‑5s. If I make a couple of putts, it's completely different. I missed multiple putts and you can't do that. 

Q. (Inaudible.)
RICKIE FOWLER: The galleries here are always great. It's a special place. Yeah, it would have been nice if we could have given them a reason to get a little louder. But unfortunately didn't do a whole lot of that.








END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT