ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 19, 2017
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What was it like as you went up the hill on 18 and he's not there.  Talk about that.
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, I thought about it coming up to 18 green and when I was standing there and I had a nice look at birdie.  Not the traditional pin that we have, but still a good look at birdie on 18 is nice.  But, yeah, to look over and be one of the last few groups and not see Arnie up on the hill, it's definitely different.  I thought about it, I've obviously thought about him all week, and it is different.  But, no, I think it's been a special week and, obviously, we wish he was still here, but I think there's been a lot of good, for his foundation, Arnie's Army, I think everyone's enjoyed it, the fan support this week has been better than ever, I feel like, it's been great all week out here.  He brought us some good weather.  He didn't make it easy out there today, that's for sure.
Q. Moving forward, a lot of people are concerned about all the tournaments around this tournament and what the future of the tournament is.  Do you think that top golfers like yourself will continue to support this event?
RICKIE FOWLER: Well, I love playing here, I love this golf course.  It's a lot of -- there's a lot of holes here that are very memorable, it's got a lot of fun characteristics to it, so I like playing here.  I know there's some guys that don't and that's just what you're going to get with every golf course.  So not everyone is going to play here, but there are guys that do enjoy this golf course and then on top of it still being Arnie's event, guys will be here.  So I look forward to being here as much as possible.  I think that a lot of it has shown from guys that were here that are potentially not even playing next week.  It is a jam packed schedule and you're going to have to miss some bigger events, whether they are World Golf Championship, big TOUR events, but, no, a place like this and a place like Memorial, they're going to keep moving on strong.
Q. The year you played Tiger here, it was a tough day, obviously, but seeing him there, did it help soften the blow at all or did he give you any good words of wisdom after that day or anything stand out?
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, it was a good day.  Until I hit it in the water on 16, I was in the mix.  I felt like I did a good job hanging around, kind of like I did today.  I didn't really get anything going, but hung in there and just made a couple birdies late to salvage a decent round.  And that's how this golf course is.  You miss your spot or miss your yardage by just a little bit, really there's any hole out here can jump up and get you.  And that's what happened there.  But being able to finish up the round and be in the locker room with Tiger and Arnie afterwards and just have a drink -- and the tournament was done, life goes on -- being able to have a moment like that with Arnie and just hanging at the bar in the locker room, that was special.  Kind of puts everything in perspective.  I think that family and friends always do a good job of that, once the day on the course is over, once the tournament's over, I mean, yeah, life goes on, there's bigger and better things in life.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT