THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 23, 2017
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 66, two shots back of the lead, you live in the area, so you know what the golf course is like.  Today's 66, what is it about this course that suits you so well?
RICKIE FOWLER: I mean, I feel like it's definitely a ball-striking golf course because keep the ball in front of you, hit the fairways, you give yourself a chance to hit the greens, so you've got to kind of piece your way around the golf course.  You can't really overpower it too much.  There's a lot of holes where you're hitting less than driver off the tee, and short game's been very good, as of late, so it's making things easier when I do get into trouble to save myself.
Q. As the TOUR makes its way to the West Coast, what is it the biggest difference, biggest challenge for you guys as you make your way from California to Florida?
RICKIE FOWLER: It's almost kind of nice to be back here, since I've lived here for almost seven years now.  Being back on surfaces that I'm used to now.  I feel like I've struggled on the West Coast the past few years, for sure.  I don't really count Phoenix as the West Coast just because it's similar to what we are playing down here green-wise.
So it's nice being here.  Get to sleep in my own bed, a lot of friends and family around.  It's good.  Nice the weather moved through yesterday and we have great weather for the week.
Q. Did you learn anything last year that perhaps you can apply to this year as you make a run towards the trophy on Sunday afternoon?
RICKIE FOWLER: I feel like I've played well here a lot of times.  I wouldn't say there's anything in particular last year.  There's certain shots around this golf course you start to feel more comfortable with over time, and today I hit a great shot on No. 11, the back right pin, and that's a spot that I made birdie, but it's very easily where you're going to make five, six, possibly.  So a couple of shots that once you hit a couple good ones, it gives you a lot of confidence moving forward.
Q. 66, still great here in the first round, just talk about this golf course and how hard it is?
RICKIE FOWLER: It's a fun golf course to play.  I feel like it's definitely a ball-striker's course, especially when you get a bit of breeze.  Not too much today.  Got to play out of the fairway.  Hard to play this golf course out of the rough, even with soft greens like we had today.  No chance out of the rough.  There are a few tee shots where you're hitting less than driver and you can't lose your focus.  You definitely have to stay on top of things with every shot out here.
Q. How was it hitting out of the bunkers with all the rain?
RICKIE FOWLER: It was fun.  They came out a little quicker.  Hit a couple bunker shots before the round in the practice bunkers, so I felt I got a pretty good feel for it.  But it's nice when they get a good bottom like that.  Ended up in bunker on the first hole, and hit a great bunker shot there and was able to do so the rest of the day the few bunkers I was in.
Q. What is it about this course that suits your game?
RICKIE FOWLER: I feel like it forces me to stay on top of my game and focus on the shot I'm trying to hit or where I'm trying to place the ball in the fairway to give myself a chance of hitting the green.  Because you really can't play this golf course from the rough.
They gave you a chance today just because of the soft greens but once it firms up, if it gets to where it was, even before the rain yesterday, then you really don't have a chance of playing out of the rough, because there's not many greens that you can run the ball up on.  It has to be a forced carry and unless you have maybe a wedge out of there, but other than that, really trying to start figuring out where you can miss the green and get the ball up-and-down.
So like I said, it keeps me on top of my game focusing and it's got a fun variety, not just drivers and mid-irons.  There's a good variety.
Q. Your schedule this year, by design?
RICKIE FOWLER: Same as last year.
Q. Is it?
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, I played same as lasted year.  Played Abu Dhabi, San Diego, Phoenix and came back here.  For me to get any downtime, I have to take two weeks off.  If I take one week and I'm trying to fit a shoot or two in there, it doesn't really count as a week off.
I try and get a couple two-week breaks in the schedule throughout the year, and you know, it's been unfortunate that I had to miss Riviera a couple times because I love Riviera.  Unfortunately I just haven't played well in the tournament, but I'd like to turn that around at some point.
But yeah, a lot of it was by design to make sure that I'm rested and ready to go, because like I said, a one-week break isn't really a week off.
Q. Is it important at all to have, if not a win, having a big, strong tournament before you get to the Masters?
RICKIE FOWLER: It only helps, just getting yourself in there.  Getting the nerves settled, feeling good about the game, being in contention as many times as possible, if not winning, is great.  So to sneak back in there for a good finish in Phoenix was nice after missing the cut in San Diego.
No, I feel good, really good about the game.  Got to play with Butch last week on Friday.  He was down for the member/get at the Floridian.  He likes where we're at and where we're heading.
Q. Do you like where Butch is at?
RICKIE FOWLER: I like where he's at.  Butch is Butch and he's not changing.  He's a blast to be around.  So looking forward to hopefully getting another good session in the next month or so before we get over to Augusta for that week.
Q. Is today the easiest you think this course will play?
RICKIE FOWLER: I've looked at the weather.  I'm not sure exactly how hard the wind is going to blow.  I mean, it was pretty scorable out there today.  The afternoon, when the greens do get some spike marks and it gets a little tough to make putts; but I mean, today was fairly scorable.  Not too much of a breeze.  They had some tees up for us, which was nice.  I think they did a good job with setup.  If the weather stays good and it's able to dry out, I don't see the golf course getting any easier.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT