ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 20, 2017
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Do you feel like you got most of the rust scraped off?
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, I think I did a good job of that.  I made some dumb mistakes and played a little -- kind of trying to guide the ball a little too much yesterday.  Came out today, played a lot better.
It would have been nice to play the last couple a little bit better.  But solid day.  Obviously left myself kind of up against the wall yesterday to make sure I got into the weekend today.  Happy about that.  We'll keep building on that.
It is tough to come back off of a few weeks.  So standing on the first tee yesterday, it was just kind of hit it and see where it was going to go.
Q. You've travelled well over the course of time.  What makes you feel so home at here, not only on the golf course, but culturally in Abu Dhabi.
RICKIE FOWLER: People here have been great to us.  They make us feel at home.  Very welcoming.  Food here is great.  Weather is good.  Feels like we're almost back in the desert where they are playing this week on Tour.  A lot of things that make us feel comfortable here playing:  Good weather, good golf course, good people.
Kind of shook off some rust yesterday.  Made some mistakes yesterday, but feels good to be back out playing after five, six weeks off.  To be honest, on the first tee yesterday, it was kind of hit it and see where it was going to end up going.
Feeling the nerves again on the first tee, it's definitely something that never goes away but you definitely start to feel more comfortable when you're in the groove of playing week-to-week.
Today was better.  Got off to a great start.  Good, solid day.  Would have been nice to finish the last two holes off a bit better, but happy we are on to the weekend.
Q. Do you feel you need a hot weekend?
RICKIE FOWLER: Obviously Martin has had success here and he's off to a good start.  I'm going to have to get to at least the mid to high teens to have a chance.  So we'll see.  I'm going to need a good one tomorrow, just to put myself in a decent position.
Q. Highlights from today?
RICKIE FOWLER: Highlights, I made four in a row right around the turn, 8, 9, 10, 11, so that was nice.  I didn't have a whole lot go great early.  Just played solid.  The wind was up and it wasn't playing easy.  Nice to get those in the middle of the round.  Put myself comfortably inside the cut line and tried to make a few more as we came in.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT