ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 22, 2017
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How do you reflect back on your four days?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Definitely enjoyed our time here in Abu Dhabi.  Yeah, not as well as I would have liked to have played, but still had a good time.  Finished off on a high note with a couple birdies coming in, so looking forward to getting back into action next week in the States.  Like I said, had a blast here again this year.   
 Q.  What's coming up next for you then?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Flying tonight back to the States to California.  Playing the Farmers Insurance Open down at Torrey Pines in San Diego.  So right back into it.   
 Q.  For your fans hoping to see you in Dubai one day, when can we eventually get to see you?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Not sure.  Obviously we enjoyed the past three years, being able to come over to the Middle East and visit here in Abu Dhabi.  Not sure when the plans are to be back and play Dubai; I have obligations to play in the States around that time.  But we have had a great time being here the last three years in Abu Dhabi, and looking forward to getting back.   
 Q.  How did you rate the course again this weekend?  
RICKIE FOWLER: It's great.  Drive it well, hit good shots, you can make a lot of birdies.  But also, if you're off your game, it will pick you apart, and it's tough to play out of the rough here.   
Unfortunately made too many mistakes this week, but yeah, still had a great time.  Obviously the weather was nice.  A little bit of wind up for the boys today to give a little bit of a challenge.  But it was a great week again.   
 Q.  What are your favourite holes, if you had to say three of them?  
RICKIE FOWLER: 18 is always fun.  It's a good kind of risk/reward par 5, being the last.  If you hit a good drive, it's definitely a scorable hole.   
7 is a good little par 3, even though it's given me trouble over the past couple years.  The right pin, it's kind of risk/reward, as well.  There's a lot of good holes out here.  A lot of good driving holes, as well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT