THE AMERICAN EXPRESS
January 18, 2020
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Not a great start for you, but the finish was strong. What was your take away from today?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Typically you're going to have nine holes throughout 72 that may not go exactly how you want to, and a couple mental errors cost me, and just really struggled to get things going early. So I was actually surprised by the green speed early on. They were a bit slower than what I've seen the last two days, so adjusting to that, really didn't have anything go in early on until the 9th hole. But I thought I did a good job of hanging around, not getting too far behind. And it would have been nice to get a couple more coming in, but kind of had to grind it out and we put ourselves in at least a position where we can go out and play well tomorrow and still have a chance at this.   
 Q.  I know you're working with John and one of the things you're working on is your lower body movement. We saw you do kind of a switch foot action. What exactly are you trying to do with that?  
RICKIE FOWLER: The main thing is really the lower body just working. And for me, I feel like it would stall out a bit, more so kind of halfway through the down swing and for my arms to then catch up. So trying to sync things up better. For me, yeah, I'm calling it kind of like a southern shuffle. I think JT or Kiz would probably call it, like, a red neck shuffle or something like that. But, no, just kind of a little bit of a timing thing for me, getting into my right side, but then getting into my left before kind of, I used to yank a little bit with my arms from the top of the swing, I get a little steep. So a little bit of timing. I've been hitting it really well. I had a couple today that just got a little off and these golf courses are fairly small greens and you miss by just a little bit and it makes for a very hard up-and-down. So all in all, we're in a good spot, have a chance to go get it done tomorrow.   
 Q.  Based on where you are on the leaderboard, a few shots back, what goes into your strategy tomorrow to stay not only within your game, but knowing birdies are a premium?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Well, get off to a better start than I did today, that's for sure. No, I'm glad I got a few of those out of the way. Like I said earlier today, I would definitely like to not have those mistakes, but sometimes it's a matter of time when you're going to make mistakes and learn from them, see if we can go put together just a solid round of golf tomorrow.   
 Q.  2-over through 7. It had to be frustrating, but able to right the ship. You pick up four shots and you're at 17-under par.  
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, like you said, not the start we wanted, couple little mental mistakes. Other than that just kind of did a good job of putting that behind us kind of continuing to move forward, made a great putt on 9 to at least get one back going into the back nine. Left some out there on the back but felt like we did a good job clawing our way back and making sure we still have a chance going into tomorrow.   
 Q.  That last par got you into the final group tomorrow, so you're four back, take us through what you need to do tomorrow and obviously you might have to look behind you too because you never know how many birdies are out there.  
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, I mean obviously I would say Stadium's probably the harder of the three, but if you drive it well you're going to have a lot of looks at birdies out here. 7-, 8-, 9-under is not out of the question, we have seen plenty of those this week. So for me the biggest thing is go drive it well, get the ball in play and really let the irons go to work and have some fun with that. I think if we can make some more birdies out of the gate, like I said with today, getting off to a little bit of a slow start, a couple mental errors, learn from that, erase those and let's go have some fun.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT