WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
October 29, 2016
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Your verdict on day three?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Not bad.  I wish it would have been a little better.  Got off to a nice start.  Then kind of just so-so throughout the middle of the round.  Nice to finish with a birdie.  At least got myself in a position for tomorrow to go out and play well and at least challenge the boys out front a little bit.   
May need a little bit of a -- may need some help to have a chance at winning but a good, low round tomorrow, we'll see what happens.   
 Q.  You said about your start, it's always nice when there's an eagle so early in the round, isn't there?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, especially after yesterday, I finished -- I started bogey, bogey, and for today to go birdie, eagle, nice to get that back a little bit.  Like I said, it would have been nice to carry that momentum through the round but still, a 68, nice score.  Like I said, it gives us a shot for tomorrow.   
 Q.  Elaborate on the birdie at the last because it does put you in double figures, so it does make you that little bit closer.  
RICKIE FOWLER: I didn't hit a great second shot into the par 5 there.  I was trying to cut one, and it went the other way.  A tough lie in the fairway:  The ball is below your feet and you're trying to cut a 3-wood in there.  It's not easy when the wind is off the left and there's water off the right.   
Hit a great shot from the drop zone, since I was up against some of the railing.  Made a great putt.  I knew it was a big one, just because of getting myself to double digits, putting myself that position where, like I said, outside chance for tomorrow.   
 Q.  I'm sure you'd much prefer to be three strokes clear into the final round, but, how are you chasing?  There's a target in going for it.  
RICKIE FOWLER: Well, I've had some good nine holes out here this week.  That start I had today, I shot 31 on my front nine, the first day, the back nine.  And so it's out there.  Just need to piece it together, string some birdies together and a low one is out there tomorrow.   
I know we should have some good weather.  I think all the rain's past us.  Won't be easy but we'll see what we can do.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT