BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 11, 2016
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Your thoughts after the round and what your thoughts are now in relation to the standings?
RICKIE FOWLER: Well, I did everything I could do.  I went out and I didn't play great today, but I didn't play bad.  And I put together a nice back nine and, shoot, putts go in, it would be a lot easier.  But I hit some good putts and hopefully it's enough to get me to East Lake and we'll get that putter back rolling like we had it going at Bethpage.
Q. Will you follow, closely will you follow the rest of the day and your standings?
RICKIE FOWLER: I'll keep an eye on it, but like I said, there's nothing I can do.  So, I mean I can't, I'm not going to go heckle the ones that I need to miss or anything like that.  I want to see guys play well and they're all my buddies, you never root bad on anyone.  And like I said, all I can do is go play golf today and I'm done.  So whatever happens, happens.
Q. What do you think about the volatility of this event and the way it goes and do you think the fans, do you get any sort of sense that the fans enjoy it?
RICKIE FOWLER: I don't know if the fans have really much clue even where I was at or if I was on the bubble or what was going on.  I'm sure there are some that do out here.  On TV, obviously, you can tell, but as far as spectating, I'm sure it's tough to follow and understand the points system.  I'm sure we could go ask some fans that were following me today, they may not have had a clue.
Q. Were there any holes that you had on the back nine especially that you played differently in the position that you were in than you might of if you were 10th?
RICKIE FOWLER: No.  I stuck to my game plan, played the holes exactly how I have through the week.  Probably the best I played the back nine.  Still just didn't have anything go in.  Touched a lot of lips and nothing went in.
Q. Do you think you've done enough to get a call from Davis Love?  To be one of the four?
RICKIE FOWLER: I would like to think so.  I've done basically everything I can do as far as schedule and playing and obviously it would have been nice to play better to make the pick a lot easier on him, but whether he has his mind made up or is still thinking, that's up to him.  I'm just looking forward to having an off week at home this coming week.
Q. How does this wait feel different than 2010?
RICKIE FOWLER: Compared to 2010 I'm a bit more of an established player.  I guess I had no expectations in a way in 2010, just thinking, man, it would be a pretty cool bonus to be on the team.  In the position I'm at right now, yeah, I want to be there, I'm going to be bumped if I'm sitting at home watching the boys compete.  I think all of us out here, we want to have a chance to have a, make a difference when it comes down to it Saturday and especially Sunday in singles.  So, yeah, I would love to be there, like I said, I'm a bit more of an established player than I was my rookie year for sure, but, yeah, luckily I'm not the one having to make the picks.
Q. How about in terms of anxiousness?
RICKIE FOWLER: I've kind of done everything I can do, it would have been nice to play better, but it's out of my control now.
Q. If you are bumped from the 30 how soon will you shaving the playoff stache?
RICKIE FOWLER: I'll keep it in support of Justin.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT