THE BARCLAYS
August 28, 2016
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How aware were you, you're obviously trying to win a tournament, but in the last four or five holes, The Ryder Cup spot, were you aware the numbers you needed?
RICKIE FOWLER: Somewhat.  My main focus was winning.  Wasn't too worried about that.  If I focus on just winning the golf tournament -- you know, not finish the way I did, things would be fine.  Just made some not-so-good swings at a bad time.  No, I wasn't just trying to get a decent finish.  I was trying to win.
Q. This is now 0-for-4 for you with a 54-hole lead --
RICKIE FOWLER: Count Abu Dhabi.
Q. 1-for-5.  Two this year that got away for you this year, Wells Fargo and here.  What do you make of that and what went wrong for you down the stretch here today?
RICKIE FOWLER: I mean, this is about as tough a test as you get.  I did great the first ten holes.  I didn't swing the way I needed to.  I didn't drive the ball the way I needed to coming in.  I mean, it was barely off at all.  I mean, a couple that were just in the rough, and you can't play from the rough out here, especially on the weekend in the afternoon.  These things were getting crusty and fast and firm.
Needed to be on the fairway, and when I was on the fairway, I was great.  But I wasn't there enough.
Q. On 18, it looked like you were trying to make that.  Were you aware that if you did, that gets you into the tie for second?
RICKIE FOWLER: I mean, getting around the greens, and especially when I hit it over there to the left, trying to give myself an angle -- I thought I hit a great shot.  It definitely reacted a lot different than I expected on the break.  Trying to get it close.  I wouldn't necessarily say we were trying to make it but if it happens to go in, great.
Q. How do you feel like your resumé stacks up against those that are now going to be challenging for one of Davis's picks?
RICKIE FOWLER: I mean, it's not for me to worry about right now.  I've just got to go out and get ready to play next week.  Coming off a win there last year, I feel like I'm in a good spot.  I played great is this week, and I'm not worried about resumé or anything like that.  I've just got to continue to work on the game, continue getting better.  It was almost really good this week.
Q. Which is more disappointing:  Not closing out the tournament or not getting into that top eight by the time today was over for The Ryder Cup?
RICKIE FOWLER: Not closing out the tournament, because that would have taken care of both.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT