THE BARCLAYS
August 27, 2016
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RICKIE FOWLER: It's been nice tee-to-green.  Short game has been there for me and it's been nice to finally see some putts go in.  A little bit of a combination of everything but with a few putts going in, it definitely frees you up through the rest of the game.  I've been swinging well for a long time and just been waiting for the putter to catch up.   
 Q.  You're forecast to be first in the FedExCup if things stay as they are now, and Ryder Cup is certainly the forefront of your mind.  How do you balance the two of them?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Well, I think it's pretty simple.  We've just got to go take care of business tomorrow.   
Yeah, it's been a while since I've been in this position, but we have a pretty good track record in the past year or so since that PLAYERS win.  Looking forward to it.  It's going to be tough tomorrow.  Obviously one of the, if not the toughest golf courses we play all year.  There's nothing lacking on the field, as well.  Some guys are playing well and some guys put up some good scores today.   
I'm looking forward to it.  It's been a long time coming.  It's going to be fun.   
 Q.  A lot of people in the gallery are giving you a hard time about the mustache.  Tell us about, why did this happen and what was the story behind it?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Well, Justin and I, or I guess Justin kind of brought it up, and said, hey, what are your thoughts on playoff mustaches; let's go, I'm in.   
He sent out a Tweet and just basically asked the social world what they thought.  We were already going to do it but we just wanted to see what the responses were.  It's been fun.  Saw J.T. put up a good round today and that was fun to see before I got my round really going.  Excited for him.   
Yeah, who cares what they are saying.  We're having a good time out there.   
Ball-striking's been there and any time it's really gotten off, sometimes it's caused from the putter and not seeing putts go in, and it tightens up the rest of the game and makes you feel like you have to be match better.   
So when you do finally get some putts to go in, it's nice, it frees up the game and actually makes you swing even better.   
 Q.  You had some nice par saves today, 17 of 18 scrambling for the week.  Talk about some of the long par saves you had.  
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, like I said, finally started to see some putts go in, and hitting them right where I want to, and those putts that I need to make, I'm hitting them the proper speed and I'm actually reading the greens right.   
So we're in a good spot.  13 I made a good one.  Made another good one on 17, as well.  Tough little one down the hill.  So those are the big ones that it means a lot when those go in.   
 Q.  We had you 162 to the flagstick at 18.  You just striped it.  
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, 162 and it plays uphill a bit.  I don't know if we had a little bit more, but I think it adjusted with the wind, 73, wind was off the left, tried to hold it up a little.   Took a little bit off a 7-iron, cut it in there.  Actually thought it was going to pitch on and it pitched just short.  As soon as I hit it, it did exactly what I wanted it to do.   
I'm looking forward to it.  It's not going to be easy, that's for sure.  With the guys at the top of the leaderboard with me on a course like this, anything can still happen.  It's far from over and I know that I'm going to have to go out and play a good round of golf tomorrow, but it's going to be fun no matter what.   
 Q.  How do you rate your golf today?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Today was good.  Nice to see some putts go in, save some pars.  Always great to go bogey-free.  I'm happy about the round today and looking forward to tomorrow.   
 Q.  How about your short game?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Short game has definitely been nice this week to save me at times.  Sometimes hitting good putts but also hitting good pitch shots.  Good combination but nice to have the putter finally working a bit.   
 Q.  What do you expect tomorrow?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Tomorrow is going to be tough.  A lot of good players at the top of the leaderboard and we are on a very, very tough golf course.  So it's going to be fun and I'm looking forward to it.   
 Q.  You've got a one-shot cushion after a third-round 68.  How big was it to birdie the last?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Well, you know, having some two putts and par saves and not really having anything happen on the back nine, which the back nine is tough and even par is great.  But finally got one in the fairway and in a good position.  Had a great number for kind of a little cut 7-iron into the last there.  Hit it perfect.  Made a great swing.  It's always tough making a little putt after you hit the perfect shot in there.  You're like, don't screw it up.  Nice to birdie the last.   
 Q.  Saw Adam Scott go low early but not a lot of low numbers in the last few groups.   What was clicking for you?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Just staying patient.  Toyed make some good up-and-downs and good putts.  It was nice to finally see some of that happen.  It's not easy out there in the afternoon.  It's starting to get crispy and starting to get a little bit bumpy, so you have to just focus on your lines and hit good putts and good shots.  If it bumps and misses, it does.  But luckily was able to keep them rolling in.   
I've been putting some work in, went back to cross-handed for a bit just because sometimes it helps me reset and get my body in the proper position.  Felt better, eye alignment.  Obviously if you don't feel like you're aiming in the right spot, you're not going to make a good stroke.  Finally got to a position where I was feeling good conventional again, and been making putts at home.  Just been waiting for it to kind of come back out here.  I was able to get some work in with Paul on Tuesday.  I know Rory had spent some time with him, as well; someone that I've worked on my putting with since I was 14.  He's taught me a lot about putting and that's why I'm able to kind of work on things as I go on the road and know what to do.   
It was huge, having him here this week for the day, and just having him see me hit a few putts just to get that second eye in there.   
We're in a good spot.  Nice to make some putts.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT