WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 21, 2016
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Rickie, just talk a little bit about your week coming off the Olympics and how it met up to your expectations.
RICKIE FOWLER: Had a great time here.  First time being here at the Wyndham and I mean I shouldn't be surprised.  Obviously, all the Tour events are run very well.  This place, they do a great job, just logistics of taking care of us as players and families and everything.  It's golf course is great.
Had a great time here.  Feeling better about the game continuously kind of going on week to week.  So, like I said, kind of last week down in Rio that felt better after the week and feel even better after this week.  So, it's very close.
You know, not that I'm playing bad golf by any means but putting up some decent scores.  I know how close it is to being really good.  Excited about that and nice to get some reps in here and wish we could have gotten some more Ryder Cup points but we go after it next week.
Q. Was it an easy decision to come here or not, given the travel and what you invested in last week?
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, it would have been nice to have a week off before the Playoffs but with where -- how close my game is and wanting to get more points, playing great golf is easier than trying to find it at home, getting more reps in and putting myself in a situation of actually having to go out and score and play tournament golf, getting the putter back going and finally starting to make some putts this weekend a little bit.
So, it may have been a little harder at the time of making the decision but looking back at it now, great decision to come here.  Like I talked about the tournament, awesome this week and feeling better about the game leaving here.
Q. How would you describe this season?  You came with such expectations after last year.  You got off to a really good start.  Matter of the putter cooling off a little bit?
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, that's probably been the biggest difference.  Ball striking wise it hasn't been far off.  Still been good.  Looked at a lot of stats and things are still really good tee to green.  It shows you what putting can do when you talk about momentum and rhythm and building the momentum.
You miss a couple putts and it starts kind of feeding into the rest of your game a little bit.  You start holing putts from 10, 15, 20 feet, frees up the rest of the game where you don't feel like you have to -- or chip it that close.
Luckily, I am swinging it well.  I will continue to do that and hopefully the putter kind of keeps warming up as we go.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT