OLYMPIC GAMES RIO 2016: GOLF
August 12, 2016
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Matthew McConaughey came out to watch you play golf?
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, we've always followed each other on social media, and we linked up this week and we've been texting and he said he was going to try to come out to the golf. Pretty cool that he was able to make it. I know he's flying out this afternoon. I know he's been enjoying his he will Olympic experience going to some events. Just shows you how big the Olympics is. There's a lot of people that come in to watch.

Q. Did he try to sell you a Lincoln? 
RICKIE FOWLER: You know, normally having the Mercedes there, the Lincoln sell might be a little tough. 

Q. Better today?
RICKIE FOWLER: A bit better. I didn't hit it a whole lot better than I did yesterday. Putter was a bit better. Still misreading the greens. I didn't hit a bad putt today. Hit my line, so that's always nice. Unfortunately they are on the wrong line. So we'll get that straightened out. If I keep improving by four shots each day, won't be in a bad spot. 

Q. Were you with the other American players last night, and if so, did you guys talk about maybe turning it around today and having a better day or anything along those lines?
RICKIE FOWLER: I wasn't. Bubba went to a couple events. I saw him when he got back. And I saw Patrick after the round, but Patrick and Kuchar are staying in the condos over here and Bubba and I are staying in the village. Patrick and I tried to kick each other in the butt a little bit to get things turned around. Bubba and I hung last night but didn't talk much about golf. I think it doesn't have to be spoken too much. We all know where we're at and what we need to try and do. 

Q. Do you feel like you're playing better than your score indicates?
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, it's kind of unfortunate, but that's kind of a positive side of it. It's not like I'm out there trying to scramble around or making a bunch of crazy up‑and‑downs just to shoot even or a couple over par. I feel like I'm close to playing some really great golf. I felt like I swung it really well at the PGA, and same thing, didn't really make putts to build up momentum or get into a good rhythm. It's close, and luckily I'll be playing my way into playing better with a lot of tournaments coming up. 

Q. Are you going to play Wyndham next week? 
RICKIE FOWLER: Maybe making an announcement. 

Q. Are you Tweeting it right now? 
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, we're posted. I'll see you guys next week at Wyndham. 

Q. Why are you going to play?
RICKIE FOWLER: Main reason, obviously it would be nice to get some more FedExCup points. But my commitment to The Ryder Cup and wanting to be a part of that team, there's really‑‑ there's different styles of events. But The Ryder Cup and the experiences I've had there, it's the best team event there is in golf. I don't want to be left off that team, so I want to go there and try and get myself some points. 
Obviously not playing well in the majors and the double‑point events has put me down the list quite a bit. So that's the reason I'm going there, to show the commitment to The Ryder Cup and how much it means to me. 

Q. Is that suggesting that you don't want to assume that you would get a pick? 
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, I don't want to assume anything. I would want Davis to pick me because he thinks I deserve a pick. I want to go and go there and play well and earn some points. Yeah, I don't want him to think I'm just assuming I'm getting a pick, and I'm not assuming that I'm getting one, either. I want to go earn my spot.

Q. So is that to say that because of this week, is the reason why you just signed up for Wyndham? 
RICKIE FOWLER: Because of this week, no. Actually this was decided after the PGA. So we just hadn't announced it, and it was really regardless what I did here this week. I talked with my team; even if I won gold here and played really well, I still wanted to go there and make that effort of earning points to solidify my spot on the team. 

Q. Just for the record, did you and Matthew McConaughey know each other before or is this the first time?
RICKIE FOWLER: First time we've actually met in person. But like I said, we've kind of stayed in touch with each other socially and those ways. Obviously both having pretty busy schedules, it's not easy to be in the same place at the same time. No better place than here at the Olympics.

Q. Where you are now and the position you're in, Patrick talked about the fact that he's going to have to put two really good rounds together, and he's 1‑under I think it is or 2‑under. Do you feel like you have a chance to get a medal at this point?
RICKIE FOWLER: It's a very outside chance but there's still a chance. You can make a lot of birdies around this golf course. Unfortunately I haven't done that. I need to get the putter going if that's going to happen. I've been putting together some great rounds of golf at home. Unfortunately not exactly transferring over yet. 
It's tough when you know the game's close to being as good as I know it is. So we'll see. Obviously going to go out this weekend and try and go get after it. If I can go and keep the bogeys away, play a bogey‑free weekend and make a lot of birdies, you never know, still an outside chance. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT