PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 28, 2016
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








RICKIE FOWLER: Definitely happy with today's round.  I mean, anything in red numbers is always nice to start off a major.  I mean, it was great scoring conditions this morning.  If you drove the ball well, you were able to play aggressive at times.  It was nice.
I mean, to start with a bogey and turn 3-under, I was very happy with that.  I wish I could have get kept it going on the back nine.  The one bogey was a 3-putt and I didn't role anything in for birdie.
Like I said, nice start and looking forward to the rest of the week.
Q. (No microphone)?
RICKIE FOWLER: 3, I did.  3, I hit a great shot in there.  I had a look for birdie after being in the trees.
Q. (No microphone)?
RICKIE FOWLER: I mean, it's possible.  You've got to hit some good shots.  I hit two good shots today out of the trees, 3 and 15.  So, yeah, 2, obviously I put myself in a tough position.  Could have been worse.  I ended up with a spot where I was able to hit a shot.
15, I was able to get on the back fringe, 2-putt, walk away with par.
3, I actually ended up with a really good look for birdie and missed it on the high side.
Q. (No microphone)?
RICKIE FOWLER: No, I've been -- I feel like I've been playing well.  I had a really good start at the Open just on the tough side of the draw.  I think I was at 1-under and then Rory and Patrick were at 2-under.  Those were the lower scores of that wave.
I've been playing well and I got a lot of good work in last week.  Feel like I'm in a good spot swing wise and heading in the right direction.  Continue to do that.  Definitely nice to get off to a good start there week and get off and running.
Q. (No microphone)?
RICKIE FOWLER: You get where you have some short mid-irons in.  You don't get many wedges.  But short mid-irons, I feel like when you are swinging well, you can definitely get a little bit more aggressive out there.
I'm trying to think, trying to get my way around the golf course.  Some of them I just got good breaks.  I mean, you get the wedge on 17, 17 and 18 are the two holes that you are a little upset if you don't have a look at birdie.
1, I felt like I was able to be somewhat aggressive.  I had 8 iron in there, 2.
I feel like 4, you get a good number, with today's pin you can take a chance over there a bit.
5, is another good one.  It's a 3-wood, wedge.  But at the same time, you've got to be careful around this golf course.  You can put yourself in a tough position pretty quickly.
Q. (No microphone) one of those anything can happen?
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, I had 9-iron for the shot it wasn't for the proper yardage.  I wasn't quite sure if I could get it up high enough to get it over the bunker just because of how much of a down slope.  It was in a bare patch and it happened to be leaning up against some grass that kept it form going into the bunker.  If it ended up in the bunker, it's fine.  I can hit a wedge up on the green.  Nice to get away with par there and keep going.
Q. Five out of the six majors winners have been first-time major winners.  What does that say to you?
RICKIE FOWLER: It says I've got a chance.  Obviously those guys played well to do what they did.  I mean, everyone that's in the field, obviously teeing it up to go win.  I'm here for the same reason.  I like my chances.  I've been swinging well and heading in the right direction.  Nice to get off to a solid start here.  Anything can happen this week.
Q. (No microphone)?
RICKIE FOWLER: Not sure.  If it misses the tree.  It could have either flown in the bunker or flown on just in the back bunker.  Both would have been still fairly easy up-and-downs.  Probably I ended up with an easier up and down with hitting the tree.
Q. Any importance to having birdies holes at 17 and 18?
RICKIE FOWLER: I mean, I feel like starting on 1 may be tougher playing this golf course just because you go such a long stretch of not having that.  If you have not hitting fairways, you are not going to be able to give yourself many looks.
Starting on 10, 10 is not an easy tee shot to start with, but you do get 17 and 18 in the middle of your round.  Gives you a glimpse of hope and then you can go try and take down the front.
Q. Given your slow start (no microphone)?
RICKIE FOWLER: Well, I mean, yeah, for sure.  You never want to go out the first round and put yourself behind the eight ball.  Obviously you can't win.  I mean, it's said a lot you can't win a tournament on Thursday but you can lose it.  You can take yourself out of the tournament and make it tough to make a cut or be around to keep going.  Getting off to a solid start is definitely nice, making some good swings, making some birdies, especially in majors.
Q. (No microphone)?
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, the middle part is terrible.  Definitely not where I wanted to be, especially after winning early in the year.  You don't have to sugar coat it, it wasn't very good.  Missing cuts is not fun and definitely not what's planned.  It's heading in the right direction.  It's just continuing to work on -- I mean, swing wise, it's fundamentals.  Everything is so small.  But the thing is, out here the highest level, if you are off just a little bit, I mean, especially in a major, it picks you a part and it shows.
Q. (No microphone)?
RICKIE FOWLER: I mean, a little bit.  He had some of the younger ones pulling for him.  I was pulling for him.  Ernie and I, since I've turned pro, have continued to build a friendship.  I feel like we're closer now after I made a hole-in-one at his foundation event.  It's always a lot of fun playing with him.  We live by each other down in Florida.  It's the cool thing about golf is that you get to see multiple generations of guys playing from guys in their 20s, 30s, 40s, even in their 50ss, competing at the highest level.
Q. (No microphone)?
RICKIE FOWLER: I hope they know who he is.
Q. (No microphone)?
RICKIE FOWLER: No, it's great to see that we have a good group of fans out here this week.  I know it's probably going to continue to grow coming to the weekend.  I hope my fans know who Ernie Els is.  He's a legends out here.
Q. What is the most challenging about the course out there?
RICKIE FOWLER: I mean, if you are not driving the ball well, it's going to be hard to score.  You have got to be playing out of the fairway.  The rough is spotty, you can end up with some pretty bad lies, end up with some that are okay.  Even so right now it's starting to firm up a bit.  If you are not playing from the fairways, tough to get the ball on the green.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT