THE 145TH OPEN
July 15, 2016
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Rickie, can you talk about the conditions?  Have you ever played anything like this before?  
RICKIE FOWLER: That wasn't that bad compared to St. Georges.  There were times it was blowing pretty good and coming in sideways, but I remember at St. Georges the Saturday there I couldn't even use my umbrella.  So luckily we were able to use some of our umbrellas for cover today.   
But once we got to 12 and turned around, yeah, the back nine was supposed to play down off the left, which we got on 10 and 11, which was nice.  Wasn't the case once we got through 12.  It had switched to where it was in off the left and that's about as tough as you're going to see the back nine play from there on in.  13 and 14 we got some pretty heavy wind.  It just makes it tough making putts and actually pulling a club and hitting a shot.  Nice that I was able to kind of hang on and get it to the house.   
 Q.  Where were you when (Inaudible).  
RICKIE FOWLER: 13, 14.  I think that's it.   
 Q.  What was a crazy shot you hit?  
RICKIE FOWLER: I think just the putts that I made for par on 13 and 14, that was nice.  The one on 13 wasn't very long.  It was maybe only three and a half, four feet, but the putt's supposed to break left and then it's gusting to the right.  So you kind of just hit and hope in the middle of the hole and hope it kind of breaks a little if the wind holds it.  The next hole on 14 I made another good par putt from about 12 feet or so.   
So it was nice to keep a little momentum going just because the way 15 was playing after that.  I think Jason hit a decent driver and still didn't get to the green.  I decided to hit 1-iron off the tee just because it was blowing so hard left to right that I felt like I could try and keep it down a little more to at least keep it from moving so much to the right.   
Yeah, it was nice, like I said, to make a couple putts.  Two-putted on the last hole, so happy with where I'm at and see if we can give a little bit of a run tomorrow and get ourselves in a decent position for Sunday.   
 Q.  Jordan mentioned some of you guys were watching the coverage at the house, and it became pretty clear that you may have gotten the raw end of the draw.  Is it tough to come out like this?  
RICKIE FOWLER: No, you just go out there and try to hold on and fight as much as you can.  I think it's pretty clear which side of the draw was better for scoring, but that's The Open.  I'm not going to complain about it.  I've been on the good side, I've been on the bad side.  At St. Georges I was on one of the tough sides and ended up finishing fifth.  I think there's a lot of -- it's rewarding when you end up getting a good finish when you're kind of stuck behind the eight ball.   
I'm happy with where I'm at.  Was the lowest score out of our wave was 2-under?  I think Patrick posted a 2.  I mean, he was early in our wave, but, yeah, it wasn't easy scoring-wise.  So, yeah, we'll go try to play well tomorrow, get back in there to possibly have an outside chance, but a lot of it is going to depend on what the guys up front do.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT