MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2016
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Lee Westwood was just talking about how uniquely difficult the conditions were the last two days. How do you describe the sort of mental taxation this put on you the last couple days?
RICKIE FOWLER: Well this golf course is, I think, very mentally tough without the conditions. And then you add the wind and some unfortunate breaks that you may get, it's tough, because it can wear on you. When the wind has that much of an affect on the greens and how much it can move your ball‑‑ the biggest, I think, is on the greens. I mean, we're used to playing in wind, hitting balls through the air and how it affects it there, but with the greens with this much slope and whether it's blowing with the slope or against it, there's quite a bit of an affect. 
So I think that there's‑‑ you've seen some stuff on TV with the coverage where guys have been affected a bit, but it's even magnified even more in person. It's crazy when the ball's just shaking and you got to wait to hit it. So, yeah, definitely difficult out there. And it can wear on you mentally.

Q. Did you put anything, anything you could put your finger on the past two days with your game?
RICKIE FOWLER: I didn't play my best. I hit some good shots, made some good swings, but not what I expected to have this week, that's for sure. I felt good coming in here, especially after last week, I felt like I got some good work in early this week and, yeah, both physically and mentally, golf swing‑wise and some of the mental mistakes I made yesterday, stuff that I'm not supposed to do and haven't been doing, so a bit unfortunate, but two days in the week that I'll be able to look back on and definitely learn from this and move on.

Q. You had a chance to visit with Tom Watson before your round up on the putting green. Anything from that exchange, anything he said to you, you said to him before you guys went out?
RICKIE FOWLER: Well, he's very positive and he's been fun to be around. Obviously, cool to be in the group behind him. He says this is his last one. He's obviously made it pretty well known that he can still get around this place all right. 
No, he was just was saying, hi, telling me, obviously, yesterday, like I said, golf happens, I mean, it's tough, especially around this place, it can pick you a part, if your mind wanders at all. That's where you got to be mentally on top of things on every shot here. 
He told me, this is probably one that you'll look back on and one that you may learn the most from. 

Q. How do you describe the reverence you have for a guy like that and a tournament like this, just playing behind him and when you see what he means to this place?
RICKIE FOWLER: Well, from him getting to see the guys hit the first tee ball, both last year and this year, the history and tradition that's involved with the Masters and here at Augusta, I mean, I grew up learning the game from an older gentleman, Barry, so I feel like I have, I don't know, maybe a little bit more of a touch to the older style of game. So I definitely appreciate what they have all done to allow us to be doing what we're doing now. Yeah, it's fun to be around it, to see it a little bit.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT