ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 27, 2016
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MARK WILLIAMS: We'd like to welcome Rickie Fowler into the Zurich Classic of New Orleans interview room.  Rickie, you're obviously had a bit of a break.  Masters was the last time you played.  You played in the pro-am this morning.  Give us a quick assessment about what the golf course was like this morning.   
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, it's definitely fun to be back in New Orleans.  I was able to get in last night.  We had a dinner with Zurich and played the pro-am today.  A couple of my favorite people, Jeff from Farmers and Dick Kearns and Al on the board of Zurich.  We had a good time out there.   
The golf course is good.  It's all going to depend on what the weather does.  I know we had some rain come through, and hopefully we can dodge the rest for the week.  I know the TOUR always does a good job of getting the best out of a golf course, weather-permitting.   
MARK WILLIAMS: You've played this event five times, you've had one top 10.  Is there something you need to do to get across the line on the sixth time to improve on that a little bit at this golf course?   
RICKIE FOWLER: I mean, there's a lot of water out here, so I'm going to try and avoid those areas.  No, I've played -- I've had some good rounds here.  I've had one good tournament.  Other than that, I need to make up for that with a good week here this week.   
 Q.  What kind of benefits can come from a week like you guys had last week?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Well, I mean, obviously just having a good time with some really good buddies, it's nice to be able to get away, kind of recharge, reset, and especially to get ready for the stretch that we have coming up.  I know the next three weeks are going to be busy, and then we're kind of another little break before we get into probably one of the busiest summers that any of us have had coming from our early careers.  It's going to be a jam-packed summer with the Olympics being a part of it.  Hopefully I have a chance to do that, and then on through to potentially being on the Ryder Cup team, as well.   
 Q.  When was the trip organized?  And Justin Rose said yesterday that after the Masters is one of his favorite times to blow off steam.  Would you agree with that, as well?  
RICKIE FOWLER: I think it's a great time.  It goes a few months back since -- I've been going to Baker's for a few years now, and being a member over there, it had been something where a few of us had been trying to plan a trip, and the timing of it being after the Masters, and then especially with, like I said, the schedule coming up, it felt like it was the right time to be able to get everyone together.  Luckily schedules were friendly, and everyone had that free time, so it worked out perfect.  Like I said, it had be kind of in the works for a few months, and yeah, glad we were able to do it.   
 Q.  Smylie was in here earlier and he said you were responsible for checking out the depth of the water before y'all jumped; is that right?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Well, I would say that that wasn't the first time I've been off of -- actually Seth Waugh's house.  We'll leave his name out of it.  No.   
No, it's a dredged-out marina.  It's plenty deep.  It's made for some pretty large boats that come in there.  Very safe underneath there.   
 Q.  You mentioned the Olympics.  Obviously some prominent players have announced that they won't play, but you're in a position to play with your World Ranking.  This is something that's meaningful to you, obviously, continues to be?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, I would love the chance to be able to go down to Rio.  Obviously want to continue to play well, and if I do have that chance, I'm really looking forward to that.   
 Q.  Do you understand why some guys maybe don't want to go?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, I haven't read completely into the details, but I know there's been some pretty big reasons on why guys are potentially not going.  I kind of look at it as kind of a once-in-a-lifetime experience to actually be part of the Olympics, with it being the first time back in over 100 years.  So if I have the chance to go down there and play for Team USA and walk in the opening ceremonies and to be a part of the Olympics, it would be pretty special.   
 Q.  With THE PLAYERS just a few weeks away, what's the one thing that you have kind of treasured from that experience?  
RICKIE FOWLER: I mean, obviously the finish that I had there definitely helped me with the wins that followed and has continued to help with confidence from there.  Obviously I want to go back and be in a position to defend.  I think they said that no one has done that before, so it would be nice to have that opportunity.  I'm looking forward to getting some good weeks here in next week and to be ready to make this the start of a big stretch and playing well through the summer.   
 Q.  With me being a New Orleans native, what are your favorite things to do around the New Orleans area?  
RICKIE FOWLER: I enjoy just kind of walking around the city.  There's definitely some great places to eat.  I know most of the players do stay downtown, and I feel like you just go walk around and you feel like -- I don't know, you walk into my restaurant, it's almost like you're in player dining because there's a few tables with other players in there.  So it's fun.  I know everyone enjoys it.   
Like I said, just kind of the walking around.  You can be in so many different areas in five, ten minutes, and it's not too far from the course, so it makes it fairly convenient.   
MARK WILLIAMS: Rickie, we appreciate you coming in, and good luck this week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT