SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 1, 2016
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Rickie, the Masters is only a couple of days ahead.  How would you describe your feelings?
RICKIE FOWLER: I'm excited.  I haven't had my best the last few days, but I felt good out there.  A couple things to make some tweaks and work on this weekend, but definitely like where my game is at going into next week.
Q. What about today, how would you compare it to yesterday's effort and condition-wise, things changed in a hurry?
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, condition played a lot tougher today.  Even though the guys still played fairly well out there, it wasn't playing easy.  There's definitely a handful of holes that you can still make a lot of birdies on downwind, but some of the crosswind and into-the-wind holes played tough.
I hit the ball well.  Again, I have kind of one offline ball off the tee that cost me and ended up making double, but made some good birdies, made good putts.  Definitely, like I said, I like where the game is at with a few more days to go.
Q. What are the biggest adjustments you make on a day like this, knowing it won't be easy?
RICKIE FOWLER: Just really focus on hitting solid golf shots.  Trajectory is a big thing.  Hit the fall in the center of the face.  Gives you the most control.  Felt like I hit a lot of good golf shots out there today and it's tough.  Every once in awhile when you go to a complete opposite wind, you're aiming in some awkward areas than the day before.  So, it takes a bit of trust to do it.
Q. What about conditions before and after the delay, too, because obviously the golf course changed a little bit from the time you picked up play?
RICKIE FOWLER: A little bit.  I mean a lot of times when a front comes through, wind changes, wind speed changes, but it was pretty much the same.  We didn't get a whole lot of rain, so it didn't soften it up much.  It was pretty similar.  Did have a little bit of a delay being that we're on the far point of the course.  From the time we hit balls until going back out, there was a little bit of a wait, but everyone has to do it.
Q. How do you think the wind affected you?
RICKIE FOWLER: It was fun.  Came back out.  Kind of picked up where I left off.  It was playing tough out there.  Right where we got stopped is kind of where we turned back into the wind.  We knew we had some tough golf ahead of us before making the turn.  Played pretty well through those holes.  Missed a short one for par on 17, which I wish I could go back and tap that in.  Other than that, yeah, nice step in the right direction today.
Q. (Inaudible)
RICKIE FOWLER: I definitely feel better where my game is at.  This is a good week for me to kind of check some boxes and make sure we're ready to go next week.  Yeah, I want to be in a position to win this week and a little ways back, but a good solid round will get me back in the mix.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT