SENTRY TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 2, 2020
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Nice birdie to finish off the round, 5-under par. You've played here enough. The little changes they've made out here, how different is this golf course?  
RICKIE FOWLER: I think the biggest difference right now, one, just being this wind direction today is one we don't normally see. Seeing it hurt on 18 is kind of rare. The other thing is the fairways are a lot slower and softer than what we're used to. Used to getting a bit more roll. And then there's some new tees, so it's playing longer. But yeah, I think one of the biggest things is the ball not really chasing on the fairways. Greens are firmer. There's a few differences, but for the most part, lines are all the same. It's still fairly similar around the golf course, but you've just got to pay attention to a couple little changes.   
 Q.  You're getting married, you get the call to play in the Presidents Cup. This is your first official event on the PGA TOUR this season. I know you wanted to play Mayakoba. Other than getting married, what did you do in your downtime?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Played a lot of golf, actually. Leading up to the wedding, played quite a bit, played the whole week we were down at El Dorado in Cabo there, and then had about a three-week period where I didn't touch a club with the honeymoon and then once I was going to start practicing to get ready for Mayakoba, that's when I got the food poisoning at home, so that shut that down. And then the week of Mayakoba I was able to kind of get back and get after it for those weeks leading up to Tiger's and the Presidents Cup. Like I said, other than that little break, played a lot of golf. Got a lot of work on the game, so I was excited to play those two events to end the year and then to come start the calendar year here.   
 Q.  Is there any sense of urgency given the forecast for wind the next three rounds to get off to a good start?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Yes and no. I mean, not really, especially the first three holes you don't really get -- it's hard to get chances. So it was more just kind of settling in. I knew with the conditions today that if I wore out or tried to wear out fairways and greens, I'd get plenty of looks. With the par-5s as well as some shorter par-4s, especially in that back there, you can get a lot going. So it was more just -- I wouldn't say necessarily trying to go get after it. It was settling in and kind of let things come to us, which I think we did a good job of.   
It was definitely out there. Looking forward to the wind, though.   
 Q.  You're going to get plenty of it it sounds like. How is that going to change things?  
RICKIE FOWLER: I'm going to still try to wear out fairways and greens if I can. I think, from what I've seen in years past, as long as it's not hard enough to where it's keeping us off the golf course, the TOUR usually does a good job of setting it up to where it's still playable. It's going to be tough, and there's going to be some easier holes, there's going to be some harder holes. But yeah, I love playing in the wind. I feel like it just kind of brings out the ball-striking. This golf course allows you to use your imagination and even more so in the wind.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT