SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 3, 2016
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You came into the week with a lot of goals in mind.  Now with this 1-over, what were you able to take away from this week going into Augusta?  
RICKIE FOWLER: I'm excited for next week.  Looking forward to getting there tonight, get rested up, get some work done tomorrow.  We have a game on Tuesday.  Kind of just get ready to go Thursday.  Definitely I really like where the game is at.  I like how I played this week.  I was able to get some work done and figure out what I'll work on the next few days, but yeah, I like where I'm at.   
 Q.  How do you enjoy the Houston experience on this course to prepare you maybe for a little bit of what you might see next week?  
RICKIE FOWLER: It's a great week going into the Masters.  They've done a great job getting the golf course condition-wise similar to what we'll see around the greens.  Obviously, you can't really get close to what the greens do over there and the slope that we putt on, but the way everything is mowed around the greens and kind of the first cut everywhere else gives us a little bit of a look and kind of a little practice going in, so definitely nice.  I've enjoyed playing in Houston the past few years to get ready for Augusta.   
 Q.  What specifically might you fine-tune in the coming days getting ready for Thursday?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Just a few shots.  I had trouble today a little bit with a couple of left to right, little cut shots.  One being off of a lie where the ball was above my feet.  So, just fine-tuning.  Drove the ball pretty well all week.  I can still tighten that up.  Just minor things, tighten short game always.  That's the key at Augusta.  I felt like I hit some good shots around the greens this week.  Unfortunately, didn't make the putts on top of that.  That makes it tough to keep those stats up.  All in all, like I said, I like where I'm at going on.   
 Q.  What is it about when you arrive at Augusta that you've had success there, the confidence level the minute you walk into that place?  
RICKIE FOWLER: It's an amazing place obviously with all the history.  It is the Masters.  It's the first Major of the year.  Augusta is a special piece of property.  It's fun to be there, fun to be in the city of Augusta.  The whole week.  There's not one specific thing.  From the point you land to driving down Magnolia Lane, to practice, to being in the Par-3 contest, then there's the tournament.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT