SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 2, 2016
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Rickie, a round of 70 today.  How pleased are you with how you played?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Definitely pleased with the start.  Made a couple mistakes out there, wasn't an easy day.  Proud of myself for kind of hanging in there, get the most out of the round.  Hit some great shots coming in.  Obviously the closing three holes are not easy with the wind.  Hit a great driver and the approach shot and will definitely build on that for going into tomorrow.   
 Q.  It was a lovely start, like you said.  Want to see your iron play here.  How good is the golf swing feeling at this moment?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Kind of continues to get better and better each day.  Feeling more and more comfortable, especially some of the short mid irons feel very good with hitting my numbers.  So looking forward to tomorrow and continue to build on that for next week.   
 Q.  We're going to take a look at the 8th hole as well.  Tell us about the difficulty of this chip shot.  Probably a skill you're relying on quite a lot next week.  
RICKIE FOWLER: From that distance it's a pretty simple pitch shot, but when you add the kind of first cut -- the ball was actually sitting decent but the ball is below your feet, probably 6, 8 inches, maybe a foot.  Don't know.  Didn't measure it.  The green's running away.  It hit.  Hitting a soft, delicate pitch with little bit of spin was key there and definitely next week at Augusta.   
 Q.  You certainly have expertise to get it around in the wind.  You won the Scottish Open.  Somebody enjoys playing in the wind and great control of their ball flight, would you relish the opportunity tomorrow to blow a little bit, given you're a little bit behind the leaders?  
RICKIE FOWLER: I would definitely love it to stay kind of as it has been.  You look at the first day, the guys going out and shooting 7, 8, so it would benefit me if the wind stayed up for tomorrow and make it challenging for everyone and definitely feel like I could get out there and put up a good number.   
 Q.  Best of luck with that.  
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT