WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 6, 2016
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A flash interview with:   
RICKIE FOWLER   
 Q.  Your comments on the day.  
RICKIE FOWLER: Well, I'm glad I got that one out of the way.  Nice to be in the final group tomorrow.   
Seems like every tournament I have had one day where it hasn't been great, by any means, and like I said, nice to get that one out of the way today.  Looking forward to getting after it tomorrow.   
 Q.  Seems like the birdie chances are much harder to come by out there.  Talk about that.  
RICKIE FOWLER: I mean, there have been some tough pins.  You have to take advantage of the par-5s.  They're all reachable, but tricky pins where you still have to put yourself in the right position.   
Still didn't play that easy out there.  I just didn't get much out of the round out there today.  Just kind of managed it well and played with what I had to get around.  There were some lower numbers out there, I saw.  So it's there.  You just gotta play well.   
 Q.  (Question about shot that narrowly missed the water.)  
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, I thought it was going to come out hot, in a way, and it came out soft and floated on me.  Got a little lucky there, which is nice.  Always nice to get good breaks every once in a while.  I'll take it.   
I feel if I would have went in the water I would have got it up and down for 5.  I thought it would come out a lot different than it did.  I felt like I made a couple good swings coming in.  Made a good swing on the last one, 18, the drive.  Excited for tomorrow.   
 Q.  Talk about the energy out there.  
RICKIE FOWLER: It's awesome playing in front of big crowds.  We had a good following on the front 9 and first few of the back.  The next couple get pretty quiet.  A lot of people decide to stay by 16 and 17.  You get that little break, and then once you get to the 15th green it opens back up.   
It's pretty fun, home stretch, 15 into 18.   
 Q.  (Question about being in this position versus being out front.)  
RICKIE FOWLER: I mean, yeah, ultimately I'd like to be out front right now.  Danny played great today.  He made some good putts, played solid.   
It was kind of nice to get this round out of the way today and to be going into tomorrow having made some good swings coming in.  Just need to make some putts.  I felt like I hit a lot of good putts on line, and tomorrow they will go in.   
 Q.  16, is it hard to tee off with all the crowd going on?  
RICKIE FOWLER: We're used to it.  I have played here -- this is my eighth time here, so no, I'm used to it.   
 Q.  Are you going to do anything to Danny's car or anything?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Ahh, I don't know.  We'll see.   
No, we'll keep it light.  He's always the one that likes to try to do stuff.   
 Q.  Which are you more comfortable doing, being in front or trying to chase it down?  
RICKIE FOWLER: I have been in both positions.  I feel really good about tomorrow.  Ultimately, like I said, I wanted to be out front because I felt good in Abu Dhabi, kind of controlling the tournament from up front.   
But the way I played today that's not the case, so excited to go chase them down tomorrow.   
 Q.  Seemed like a lot of starts and stops today.  What's the takeaway?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Definitely pleased to get that round out of the way.  I didn't have my best stuff out there.  Let a lot of stuff fly by.  I struggled.  Some of the speeds, felt like I was giving the greens a little too much credit out there and they were a little slow.  I will get that dialed in for tomorrow.   
Like I said, nice to get that out of the way.  Made a nice swing with the drive on the last one.   
 Q.  How would you describe the scoring?  
RICKIE FOWLER: I mean, there was some tricky pins.  You have to take care of the par-5s.   
Here I am with 70, but like I said, nice to get that out of the way.  Every tournament I have won, I've had some of those days where I've had to hang in there.  I'm in the last group, so I have a chance.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT