FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 29, 2016
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I know you're disappointed with your play today, as well as yesterday.  What concerns you as you leave Torrey Pines, here about your game?
RICKIE FOWLER: Just a little inconsistent the past two days.  Definitely didn't make the putts that would make a difference.  I missed quite a few yesterday.  And then today I had some that I felt like I hit some good putts and just kind of snuck by.  So those 10-footers here and there, they make a big difference on momentum and rhythm through a round.  So it's just a bit tough when you can't even see one of them go in.
Q. You arrived here coming off that great victory in Abu Dhabi.  What do you think the difference is on your winning on the European Tour in a world class field and coming here and not having your best?
RICKIE FOWLER: Well, I didn't get really anything out of my game the last two days the way I played.  Just didn't score very well.  I made a few birdies, but definitely need to make more.  Should have made more yesterday on the North Course.  Today I had some good opportunities, just seemed like the ball was a bit scared of the hole.
Q. Let's talk about the success that you've had.  Again, you won in Abu Dhabi, you're No. 4 in the World Golf Ranking, the highest you've ever been.  And right above you sits Jordan Spieth, Jason Day, and Rory McIlroy.  When you're out competing we, as fans and media members, see you guys laughing, joking with each other, it's actually quite refreshing.  Explain the relationship you have with these guys that you want to beat each and every week?
RICKIE FOWLER: The four of us are really good friends.  We'll spend time together off the golf course, whether it's in dining or even away to practicing together, hanging out, going to do charity events for each other.  So we enjoy being around each other and it's fun.  I feel like we're all pushing each other to play better and to play well.
So maybe if Jordan and Rory were here I might have played a little bit better.  So, no, it's a great kind of foursome we have set up and there's plenty of other guys right behind us World Ranking, I'm only saying four because those are the four of us in the World Ranking.  Golf's in a great spot right now.  We're having a good time and but on the golf course we want to beat up each other pretty bad.
Q. You guys are carrying the baton to the new wave.  Give us your schedule over the next few months as you leave Torrey Pines.
RICKIE FOWLER: Head to Phoenix, play next week.  I got two off, and then Honda, Doral and kind of go from there.  So, yeah, we're going to prep for Augusta, but that's kind of the main focus right now.
Q. Obviously disappointed, but let's look ahead.
RICKIE FOWLER: It would be nice if there was a miracle and I got to play the weekend.  But I tried to battle out there today.  I didn't have my best the last two days.  Really the big difference is nothing would go in on the greens.  I tried to make a few coming in, which I got two, but there was plenty of others through the whole back nine that the ones that go in and definitely change the momentum and rhythm through around.  So, unfortunately those didn't go in and we're stuck at even.  So it doesn't look like we're going to play the weekend.
Q. Yesterday you described your round as terrible.  Any descriptive word for today?
RICKIE FOWLER: Just not getting very much out of it.  Not that I swung bad by any means the last two days, just didn't score very well, didn't make any putts yesterday and struggled to kind of make the ones that keep a round going.  So, unfortunate.  Obviously want to play well here.  I had a lot of friends and family around and being with Farmers, so, yeah, be a miracle if I got to play the weekend, which would be nice, but, yeah, I'll get a little extra rest for Phoenix, possibly.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT