WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 4, 2016
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A flash interview with:   
RICKIE FOWLER   
THE MODERATOR: Obviously a great way to get things started today with a great round of 6-under.  What was the key to your round out there today?   
RICKIE FOWLER: Seeing some putts go in.  I made some good putts to start the round.  Just kinda got everything going.   
Made a couple of bad swings.  Cost me a little bit, but other than that, nice way to get off to a good start here.   
THE MODERATOR: Eagle there on 15.  Obviously a key.  Was that the kind of thing that got your round going?   
RICKIE FOWLER: I mean, I made some good putts before that, but it was a nice bonus there.  I had a good number in there.  Actually put a 5-wood in play last week, a new one I worked on with Cobra, a Baffler with the rails back on there.  Actually it's helped out my flight a lot with the 5-wood to fly a proper distance.   
Ended up with a perfect number there.  I had it in to 13, as well, but I just mishit it a little bit, so it was nice to feel the rebound, hit that one.  And I know the back of the green there pretty well, hit a lot of putts and know it's pretty straight and hit my line perfect there.   
 Q.  How much does the missed cut last week play into what happened today?  
RICKIE FOWLER: I made a little bit of redemption, but I know I have been swinging well and playing well.  I just didn't make anything last week.  That was the hardest thing was getting any rhythm or momentum going when you can't make anything.   
So that was tough to see the ball not go in the hole.  And then you get back out here and actually hit some good putts that were going in, that was nice.   
 Q.  Talk about the second shot on 9.  
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, I mean, it's not one that you try and pull off a lot.  Definitely at home, but tournament golf sometimes you don't try and do that.   
Just kind of went with it.  I knew I could hit it but I had to hit it perfect.  Opened up a 7-iron, had I think 170 hole, hit a big, high cut, and caught it pretty much perfect.   
 Q.  Your comfort level with the putter at this event?  
RICKIE FOWLER: It definitely helps.  I like playing in front of the big crowds and how crazy the fans can get, and being kind of acclimated to the atmosphere here definitely helps.   
 Q.  Why do you like that?  
RICKIE FOWLER: I grew up around action sports, and this kind of reminds me more of being at action sports event, and the fans being loud and having fun, so just being around 16, especially come tomorrow afternoon and Saturday, it's definitely a lot of fun being there.   
 Q.  How would you describe your last few weeks?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Really good Abu Dhabi and then little disappointing last week.  Like I said, it was just kind of a putting thing.   
Nice to be back on top here this week.  Hopefully we keep that rolling.   
 Q.  [Indiscernible.]  
RICKIE FOWLER: Well, I made putts there, made putts today.  That's kind of the biggest thing.  I feel like it frees up the rest of my game, kind of free me up off the tee and the approach shots, get me on the putting surface.   
I'm rolling it well, swinging it well.  Looking forward to playing well here this week.   
 Q.  Do you think this is as easy as the course can play out here?  
RICKIE FOWLER: I mean, the conditions were perfect.  I mean, the greens are probably going to tend to firm up through the week here.  There were some tees up.  This may be, like you said, could be the easiest it plays all week.  If the wind stays down, it could stay pretty scorable.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT