FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 27, 2016
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DOUG MILNE: We would like to welcome Rickie Fowler to the interview room at the Farmers Insurance Open.  Thanks for joining us for a few minutes prior to the start of the tournament.  You're making your seventh start in the event.
RICKIE FOWLER: You make me feel old.
DOUG MILNE: Seventh start with a couple top-10s in the event.  Coming off a banner year obviously last year with the two wins and coming off a great week last week with the win in Abu Dhabi.  One thing I heard -- picked up on was that when you got off, despite the long flight, you got off the plane, you said, I just can't wait to play golf.  Obviously, you're in the mode and I'll just turn it over to you for some comments based on that.
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, landed back here in San Diego about 10 a.m. Monday morning.  Saw perfect weather.  I love being down here in San Diego on the coast.  Couldn't wait to get back out on the course because I had to kind of force myself to relax a little bit.
We got to do a clinic Monday afternoon for the First Tee and with Farmers.  And being able to do something like that was fun.  I got to make a few swings, but kept myself away so I didn't take the clubs out too much.  Practiced a little bit on Tuesday, or yesterday with Butch.  I think the biggest thing, after having a successful week just a few days ago, with some extra rest I'm back and ready to go tomorrow.  So getting adjusted and ready for a good, fun week here.
DOUG MILNE: Okay, open it up and take questions.
Q. How much are you able to sleep on that long flight back?  Everybody talks about the international travel and what Ryan had to do.  Were you able to sleep and how much of a factor is that in getting back going this week?
RICKIE FOWLER: I had to take the same flight to get over to Abu Dhabi.  It worked out just fine.  So, can't really use the time change or the travel card as an excuse.  That's for sure.  It actually worked out good because I was pretty beat after the weekend with the delays that is we had, with Friday, the one that kind of pushed our second round into Saturday.  We were on the golf course or at the golf course from sunup to sundown Saturday and Sunday.  So, wore me out just enough where I don't think I slept straight through that long on the flight back, but I stayed horizontal for 12 or 13 hours, which was good.  Just tried to force myself to get as much rest.  And like I said, I took the last two days pretty easy and I'll be ready to go tomorrow.
Q. Does the presence of Jason, Jordan, and Rory, does that kind of push you to get better or is your focus solely on your own game and what you're able to do?
RICKIE FOWLER: Well, it's definitely great motivation having guys like that playing well.  Those three guys, being the ones in front of me in World Rankings, and when we play together I feel like it kind of pushes each other to elevate our games to the next level.
I obviously have my own goals, but when those guys are playing well, it definitely, I think, kind of goes in full circle.  We're all motivating each other to become better players.
Q. And you talked about in the past wanting to be in contention and having chances to win, like in Hawaii you mentioned that in your presser.  What's -- what does that look like in terms of your expectations going forward now into the rest of this year?
RICKIE FOWLER: Well, I know I can't go out and have a perfect year by any means and having a great week every week.  But that's the main kind of focus is, whenever I'm playing is showing up and making sure I have the best that I can have that week and getting the most out of it.
I may not have played my best golf last week, but I was able to manage my game well, stay very patient and get the most out of it.  I feel like that's something I've gotten better over the past few years, especially working with Butch as well on the swing.  Where I've been able to get a lot more out of tournament rounds and that's what has really helped me win.  I got the most I probably could have got out of the round on Saturday at the PLAYERS last year and that's what gave me the chance to do what I did on Sunday.
And then last week, Thursday I wasn't playing all that great and managed to get around 2-under.  That kept me in the golf tournament.  So, if I can continue to do that, I'm going to be in the position to be in contention and ultimately have chances to win more golf tournaments.
Q. Being No. 4 in the world now, have things changed in terms of attitude or expectations or really anything surrounding your golf game?
RICKIE FOWLER: I think, personally, after having two nice weeks to start the year with the fifth at Kapalua and then winning last week put me in a mindset of I'm able to be a little bit more aggressive and play a little bit more offensively instead of trying to just get things going at the beginning of the season.  Right now, I'm looking forward to each week and getting back in the hunt and ultimately, to continue to do what I did last week.
Q. Is there a feeling of expecting to win now that maybe two or three years ago you didn't have?
RICKIE FOWLER: I wouldn't say expecting, but it's having that belief and that confidence that knowing that I can go out and get the job done.  And having don't so, winning four times in the last nine months or so, the confidence and that belief has only continued to grow.  It's a fun time for me.  It's a great time for golf.  There's a lot of guys playing well and just proud to be a part of that and proud to be a part of the mix of those top guys right now and want to continue to do that.
Q. With what you've done and what you've won in the last couple of seasons, are you at a stage now where it can't be a great year unless you win a Major?
RICKIE FOWLER: No, I don't think so.  It was a great year in 2014 and not winning there, ultimately, yeah, that's my No. 1 goal this year, is to get a Major.  But I definitely wouldn't look back if I won a couple times this year and didn't win a Major, I wouldn't look at it as an unsuccessful year.
I think you have to be realistic and continue to look at things in the positive note, but also kind of dig deeper into the parts of the game where we're trying to get better this year.  If I can continue to make steps forward with that, that's ultimately what I want to do is grow my game, make that better and the results are going to follow.
Q. We have heard that comment from a couple players over the last four or five years, Tiger being one of them, I'm sure Rory, too.  Would you think it reaches that stage after you have won a Major, and after you have one to think forward that if I don't win a Major this year it can't be that quote unquote great year?
RICKIE FOWLER: I'll have to get back to you on that after I win a Major, and we'll go from there.
I could see that as far as once you've won one to -- that's your main thought is that I've got four weeks this year, I want to get one of those.
But, yeah, I don't know that feeling yet, so I would love to have it at some point.  And like I said, that is the main goal this year is to get myself back in contention there, like I did in 2014.  And ultimately, be there and have that confidence and belief now that I have as far as knowing that I can go win.
Q. After you have a situation like you had in 2014, how much more equipped do you think you are now than you were in 2014?
RICKIE FOWLER: I don't think it really even compares.  2014 was great, and I played consistently.  And it was nice to get those Top-5's, but I think I'm a completely different golfer now.  More so mentally, in that position, compared to where I am after winning the few times this past year.
Q. If you agree that there was or is a big three, have you created a big four and if not, what do you have to do to make it that?
RICKIE FOWLER: I kind of go back to something I said somewhere in the middle of last year, towards the end of last year, I said I was kind of the sneaky fourth.
I guess to solidify being the four of us winning a Major would definitely help that.  But for now, the four of us and the guys, plenty of other guys, the guys right behind us and down the line, everyone's playing some pretty incredible golf.  Just so happens that what Jordan did last year and what Jason did, it was, that was special.  I think it's definitely motivated Rory and I and the guys down the list as well.  So if we can continue to play like that, it's going to be a lot of fun and we're going to have some good battles.
Q. Do you think the 30 something guys are getting a bit jacked of all the young guy talk?  And do you see them getting motivated, the mid 30s, Scott, Rose, Bubba, these guys, are they like, hang on, we're still here?
RICKIE FOWLER: I would hope it's motivating them.  I know I get -- I definitely get motivated from seeing friends and other guys play well.  I feel like it pushes me to want to be better, to want to be out there and doing that same thing.  So, yeah, no, I hope they're getting plenty of motivation from the 20 somethings.
Q. After you won at Wells and then there was that time waiting for another one, did you ever get particularly impatient with yourself and consider, hey, maybe I need to make a bigger change than I have?  And is that your nature to be more patient and just wait for something to happen like it did?
RICKIE FOWLER: I always have been very patient.  I feel like that's something that golf has given me and taught me over the years.  My long-time coach, Barry, passed away, that was a big thing of his and really after Wells Fargo there was a little bit of a down time where I wasn't really getting any better, per se.  And then that's where kind of I rethought things and re-established some goals and started to work with Butch and I feel like we have been trending in the right direction since then.
Q. The North Course going away as it currently exists now after this year, have you -- what have been your thoughts through the years about how the North Course played, did you like it as a golf course, and do you have concerns about how it will turn out if you really liked it?
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, I've enjoyed playing the North Course.  It's a lot of fun and adds a little bit of different characteristics than just having the South Course.  I feel like they have toughened it up over the past couple years as far as bringing the rough a little bit more into play, with it being a little bit longer and thicker.  They have continued to kind of grow in the fairways, make it a little narrower up there.  So, it will be exciting to see kind of what the changes are going to be.  It's an incredible piece of property.  This piece of property with Torrey South and then having the North as a second, I mean this is one of my favorite places on earth.
Q. Did you think that it needed a lot of change?
RICKIE FOWLER: I don't think it needs a lot of change, but I think that the right changes definitely can make it better.
Q. Jordan mentioned last week that he felt kind of beat up mentally and physically after a while wind couple months.  Curious as one of the top players, are you concerned at all about burnout with the condensed schedule this summer and fatigue really playing a factor?
RICKIE FOWLER: Well, I mean, managing the schedule has always been I guess an ongoing learning process and trying to figure out when to play, when not to play.  We have had some decent travel over the past few months.  I know Jordan's played about the same as me and then he's in Singapore this week.  Yeah, I feel like what I did the last two days making sure I was kind of rested up and ready for this week was a, was the right thing to do.  And then I know he's talked about possibly rolling back a little bit on future travel because it is tough.  Managing the schedule with time commitments and the amount of travel that has to go into playing, especially globally, and depending upon how many events you play through the year, I think that's a big thing that a lot of people outside the ropes don't really understand as much as far as what it takes to compete on a high level week in and week out.  So, I know Jordan knows what's best for him, I feel like I've done a good job of managing a lot of that the past couple years and it's going to be an ongoing thing, especially this summer, because it is a busy year having the Olympics involved.
Q. Go back.  I know Barry was your long-time coach.  What are the similarities with the way Butch teaches that you had with him and what are the biggest differences?
RICKIE FOWLER: Both are old school.  Barry passed away in his late 70's, so obviously both kind of growing up around the same era of golf.  And they probably teach on very similar things as far as the fundamentals of golf.  I mean, nothing gets very technical with Butch.  Butch probably has some more story telling involved in there, which is fun.  There's not a big difference for me.  And part of it is just feeling comfortable and having fun while I'm out there.  That's what I did with Barry growing up and that's what I'm doing with Butch now.
Q. Just a follow-up on Butch a little bit, what part of the strategic game has he talked to you about that you think is helpful?
RICKIE FOWLER: Well, I think one of the things with him is he's been there with so many different guys as top players in the world and taking some to No. 1 in the world.  Him being a past player and winning, I think that gives him kind of that credibility and knowing how it is.  And then also with being there with multiple different guys and those situations and winning Majors and being in contention and kind of understanding that feeling.  He's kind of that gives you that little extra added confidence, if I'm swinging well or the game looks good, just hearing that confirmation from him or maybe that text before a round or a final round just gives you that little kind of boost and like I said, that little added confidence.
DOUG MILNE: Well Rickie real quick we wanted to change gears.  We know your association with Farmers and one of the results of that is the new commercial spot that we would like to show and then just get a comment from you on that relationship and kind of how that's forging ahead.  So we'll take a look here if we could.
(Video played.)
DOUG MILNE: What did y'all think?
(Laughter.)
(Video played again.)
Q. One line?
RICKIE FOWLER: Hey, it was one more than you, right?
(Laughter.)
DOUG MILNE: If you could just get a comment from you on the --
Q. We just did.  We're good.
(Laughter.)
RICKIE FOWLER: I'm a golfer, not an actor, all right.  I feel like I delivered my line just fine.
No, the partnership with Farmers Insurance is, it's been a lot of fun.  Not just being a part of the tournament here, which is, this is my home tournament, I'm having the amount of friends and family that I get to have that come out this week and be a part of the week, to all the charitable things that we're involved with from St. Bernard Project and being able to do that and stuff like the clinic earlier this week which we have done the past few years.  So having an impact on so many different lives in very different ways.  So, it's a great partnership where we're able to work together and have fun with it.
DOUG MILNE: Okay.  Well, Rickie, we appreciate your time as always.  Best of luck this week and hope to see lots of you right back here.
RICKIE FOWLER: Thank you.
DOUG MILNE: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT