ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 24, 2016
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What does this victory mean to you?  
RICKIE FOWLER: This was a big one.  Last year, obviously having multiple-win season, but to come back and work on getting back in the winner's circle after a successful season and keep moving forward; this is a great start.   
Obviously a great field that HSBC has put together here.  The course is in perfect shape.  It was a lot of fun today.  It was a bit stressful at times.  Thomas is playing well.  It's fun to kind of go head-to-head with him being in the same group.  We had a good time.  It's nice to come out on top this week.   
 Q.  You say about the stress; talk us through the drama of 7 and 8, if you would.  
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, 7, made a bad swing, so kind of deserved a little bit of a penalty there.  Got a bit of a bad break having a boulder underneath the ball there.  So nothing I can really do about that.  And almost made four, which would have been amazing.  I walk away with five and then go to the next hole and just try to hop back on the horse.  Been swinging it well all week.  Hit a great drive, got it up there just short.  Hit a perfect bunker shot.  My caddie responded with, you know, golf is funny that way.  I said, well, you flip them, two pars in a row.  Kept swinging well.  Unfortunately didn't get any putts to drop after that.   
 Q.  When that feels, do you feel, it's going to be my day -- it's usually one of those cases where the omen is going --  
RICKIE FOWLER: When something happens like that, it definitely gives you a little boost of confidence knowing that you've got a good break with that after having a bad break, and sometimes you need to little luck on your side to get some wins.   
 Q.  The story of your week is quite remarkable, didn't see yourself quite standing here the way you played the first day.  
RICKIE FOWLER: The first day, I did a great job of not taking myself out of it.  I wasn't swinging great, and I had been swinging really well through the fall, through the off-season Kapalua.  Wasn't what I was expecting.   
I kind of had to just find my way around the course.  Made a couple good putts to kind of keep the momentum going.  That's something I did really well Saturday when I won The Players, just kind of hung on, made sure I didn't take myself out of the event.   
 Q.  Wonderful foundation, isn't it, 2016?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, like I said, this is a great start and hopefully this is just a start.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT