ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 21, 2016
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Can you talk me through that round?  Happy with it?
RICKIE FOWLER: No, not too happy.  It was a bit sloppy out there.  Greens are a bit quicker today and had a couple get away from me on the first hole.  But kind of started to round in form a little bit toward the end of the round.
Didn't swing all that great.  Just kind of got it around.  Kept getting myself out of it.  So probably go hit a couple balls just to tighten things up and make sure club feels proper in my hands.  I've been swinging really well as of late over the holidays, the past couple tournaments I played.  So get it straightened out and get after it tomorrow.
Q. What do you think you can improve on then for tomorrow to putt yourself in the mix?
RICKIE FOWLER: Just feeling a little bit more comfortable and confident over the ball, off the tee and approach shots.  Felt like I putted well and made some good putts.  That kept me round.  We'll just tighten it up a little bit.  Like I said, I've been playing well, swinging well.  It's never that far off.
Q. Was it fun out there with the two guys?  I'm sure it was a good atmosphere between the three of you?
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, we had a great time.  I told them walking off, why can't we play this threesome all the time, all of us good friends, enjoy playing together.  Obviously the two of them, two of the best players in the world, and I'm not too far behind.  It's always fun.  It's fun watching good golf.  I feel like we can all kind of push each other, motivate each other, as well.
Q. Good atmosphere out there?
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, we don't get too big of crowds up until sometimes the weekends in some of the leader groups, but we had a good following out there today.  They got to see some pretty good golf.  Rory played well today.  Jordan and I kind of chimed in a little bit here and there.  It's fun.  Definitely nice to be back in Abu Dhabi.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT