HYUNDAI TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 7, 2016
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You birdied 18, had to make you feel pretty good.
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, I made a great putt there on 18.  Had a tricky little one.  Grain was going one way and slope was going the other.  My chip coming down broke right as it was going by the hole and it actually went the other way.  So it was tough to trust.  Hit a great putt.  So always nice to finish that way.
Q. Is this a round the first tournament of the year that -- are you still working on things or is everything in good shape where you just tried to score?
RICKIE FOWLER: I've been playing well through the off season, there's not much of one.  I felt like I played pretty well in China, played well in the Bahamas, so not far removed from that.  So ready to jump back on it.
Q. I wanted to explain about your pants.  What kind of pants -- is there a word to describe the pants?  Are they sweat pants?
RICKIE FOWLER: Joggers.  I think that's the best way to describe them.  Yeah, joggers and high tops.
Q. Are you getting great response, especially from the young people?
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, I think on the younger side it's more positive.  I think on the traditionalist side they're not too pumped on it.  Some people say, hey, you know, cool, I wouldn't wear them or some people are hating on them, some people love them.  Bubba loves them.  So, no, it is what it is.  I've always kind of been who I am out here.  I like kind of pushing the limits, having fun and enjoying myself and that's what we're doing.
Q. The high top shoes, too, like basketball shoes?
RICKIE FOWLER: A little crossover aspect for sure.  Puma has been great with me being able to work with them, kind of doing a little bit of my own stuff, design a little bit and I basically went to them and said, hey, I want to do high tops and joggers and they were able to do it.
Q. Lastly, it looks like you're stronger.  Have you been working out?  Have you put on any muscle weight?
RICKIE FOWLER: I got a bit of time in.  Kind of November, December a little bit.  Slacked off a little last couple weeks with Christmas and New years.  But, yeah, I've started working with Troy Van Biezen, same guy that Zach and Jordan, Duff and Ryan Palmer work with.  We have been together for a little over a year now and looking forward to this West Coast Swing to spend some more time in the gym with him and make sure we're strong and healthy for sure.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT