HYUNDAI TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 8, 2016
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
RICKIE FOWLER: Well, when you play practice rounds and it's windy, you don't really think so.  And then always come tournament time, guys are shooting 5, 6, 7, pretty easily and scores end up being in the 20s to win.  You don't really look at it as a scorable golf course, but once the gun goes off, it's a different story.   
 Q.  I was about to say Wednesday, you teed off early?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Oh, yeah, I was first off.  The first nine holes was tough.   
 Q.  Could you imagine playing (audio)?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Well not in that.  The first year I played here we had three restarts.  So you look at that and how much it blew the first couple days where it's unplayable.   
Then when you get conditions where it's borderline, where you're able to play, then scores won't be that low.  But when it's like this where it's been light and variable yesterday and today.  Five to ten, tops, yesterday, that's where it gets scorable.  Greens are receptive.  And the biggest challenge and there's no wind, there's just the lies you get.  You get some hanging lies, you get the ball below and above and down and up, and that.   
 Q.  Outside of Augusta, can you compare it to anywhere else?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Outside of Augusta, I mean it's probably the only place where you get lies like that.  And TV doesn't do it justice.  I was on 17 kind of above the hole after I tried to cover the ball, but I couldn't.  It wasn't even really that bad of a swing.  It was just that much slope.  I stepped through like Gary Player used to.  But you never get those lies really anywhere else.   
 Q.  Did you scoreboard watch at all?  There's so much golf to be played still, but Jordan is at 15 and he played a really good round and you're five back.  Do you pay attention to that?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, I like paying attention seeing where some guys are making runs on the course.  It gives you a gauge.  But at the same time, it's just trying to get something going today.  Didn't really have a lot.  I let a couple slip on the back.  But, no, I like knowing where the guys are at.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
RICKIE FOWLER: No, because it's very easy to go out and shoot 2, 3, 4-under.  But it's also a course where the right conditions, you can shoot 12, 13.  So Jordan had it going and you can make birdies out here and make a lot of them.  So the course record is like 12?  So, yeah, there's a number where it's too much, but being, four, five back, you can take care of that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT