SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 23, 2015
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  When you made the turn today, you really needed to make something happen, and you did just that.  What was the difference on the back nine?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Well, I started to play a little bit more aggressive, tried to kind of get after some pins and give myself some chances at birdies.  Been swinging all right, didn't hit the center of the face a whole lot yesterday.  I started to get a little bit of that on the front nine today and made a couple good swings, 10, 11, got things going, made a few putts, and finally got a few things going my way.  Nice to have a tee time tomorrow.   
 Q.  The putts did start to drop; how big was that par save on 16, that putt you made?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Well, it took a little bit of stress off.  If I make bogey there, it makes the last two holes a little bit harder.  I was able to go into 17 and 18 a little freer minded, trying to make some good swings and not trying to just hold on but able to go make another birdie at 18, it was good to move myself one closer to the lead.   
 Q.  You got here a little bit early to work with your coach Butch Harmon.  What kind of results have you seen this week after your session with him?  
RICKIE FOWLER: We got to tighten some things up earlier this week.  Coming off of Presidents Cup, I didn't play a whole lot, was able to just enjoy a little bit of time.  I actually went to Tokyo for Puma for a couple days, did that there, and spent some time in LA with friends.  Being able to come up here and see Butch, it's convenient that the tournament is here, too, so looking forward to a good weekend.  Definitely, like I said, tightened things up, didn't have the best Presidents Cup showing, so nice to see a little bit of that starting to pay off this back nine.   
 Q.  Yesterday you said it was a horrible round for you.  What was your mindset coming in as far as what you wanted to do?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Kind of that it couldn't get a whole lot worse.  I hit a few balls after yesterday's round, knew that I wasn't very far off, so went out today, just knowing that I needed to make some birdies, that I needed to play a little bit of offense.  The cut line obviously wasn't going to move back to me.  Yeah, it would have been nice to play the front nine a little bit better, but the back nine here fortunately offers plenty of opportunities, and we were able to take care of that.   
 Q.  Did the eagle putt change everything for you in terms of confidence?  You had two birdies before the eagle, but it seemed like that really kind of got things going for you.  
RICKIE FOWLER: That was a bonus.  I hit a good drive there and was definitely looking at making 4, but making 3 there, it was a bit of a bonus.  Missing the putt the next hole kind of hurt.  I wanted to get things going a little bit more.  It would have been nice to get a little bit more out of the back nine.  It's hard to say that when I shot 6-under, but missed that putt and didn't birdie 16.  So definitely pleased with the way I played coming in, and looking forward to the weekend.   
 Q.  Now that you're in it, how do you win it?  
RICKIE FOWLER: I'm going to need a good round tomorrow.  I need to go play the front nine better, continue to play the back nine well, give myself -- I need to be closer than six shots back or whatever I am right now, so I'm going to need a good round tomorrow.  The golf course definitely yields low rounds and definitely don't need someone out front to run away.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT