TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 25, 2015
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Start off talking about the conditions today and state of the course.
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, it was a little wet out there.  That was the biggest difference from yesterday, that's what made it play a bit harder.  Wasn't like there was a bunch of wind or anything.  Rough was just very wet.  It made for judging shots out of the rough tough.  Judging chip shots around the greens.  And then also on the greens.  They were wet on top, but still rolling pretty quickly.  So just a lot different conditions than what we saw yesterday.
Q. We have been accustomed to seeing a lot of red numbers and a lot of real low numbers.  Was it an adjustment for you guys too when you come out with these kind of conditions?
RICKIE FOWLER: Personally I would rather play in tough conditions where red numbers were a good score.  It is fun playing offensive and having to shoot 5-, 6-, 7-under, to try and make up ground, but this place is a good test.  You had to play well to put up a good score yesterday.  Today to shoot under par, you had to play well.  I enjoy a good tough test of golf.
Q. What's the mindset then going into the conditions that may be similar tomorrow when you're trying to make up ground?
RICKIE FOWLER: Well I felt like I played a lot better than I scored today.  I had a few mistakes that cost me, so take that as a positive.  Made a couple more putts today and if they're similar, I definitely feel like I can go out and get something going and put something up in the red tomorrow.
Q. You were a decorated amateur, did you ever allow yourself to go through the clubhouse and look at all the Bobby Jones memorabilia?
RICKIE FOWLER: It's pretty cool, it's spread out throughout the whole clubhouse.  And just understanding the history of the game and it's kind of cool to be in all the different rooms up there, from the locker room, where we're getting worked on, where we get treatment, there's memorabilia in there and it's kind of fun to walk around and see all that.
Q. What do you think he would say if he heard that someone's playing for 10 million dollars on his home course?
RICKIE FOWLER: I don't know if he knew what 10 million dollars was back then.  That would have been, they wouldn't have been able to fathom that.
Q. Is this thing with you and Danny Lee going to go nuclear here?
RICKIE FOWLER: He tried to call it quits, but he started it, so I feel like it is my turn.  I don't know.  We'll see.
Q. Any surprise that Jason actually looked somewhat normal for the first time in weeks or months whatever?
RICKIE FOWLER: I mean, it's just tough out there today.  Couldn't really get away with a whole lot.  To play well and post a number you kind of had to be pretty spot on.  This golf course will pick you apart if any part of your game is off.  So, not that we played bad by any means out there, but we both made some mistakes and to stay around par is still good on a tough day.  But I know we would have both liked to have had 66, 67 would have been a little nicer.
Q. Your first Presidents Cup.  What do you expect, what have you heard in terms of being different from the other one?
RICKIE FOWLER: The differences that I've seen, the winning versus not coming back with a cup, so I'm hoping to be a part of a winning team.  That would be nice.  I know it's going to be a tough test over there, but I'm really looking forward to the team atmosphere that we have going over.
I'm really glad that Phil's a part of the team, I feel like we have a great captain in Jay, as well as the assistants that are going over.  So, it's a long trip, but we're going to have a good time together.
Q. You have won there and played there in Korea before, what do you think that will be like?
RICKIE FOWLER: I'm 1-1 over there and I want to make it 2-2.  They're big golf fans over there.
Q. Atmosphere-wise?
RICKIE FOWLER: Atmosphere-wise there will be quite a few people out, there was quite a few people out for the Korean Open when I was over there.  So they're big golfers over there.  I feel like we're going to have a big following, I don't think it's going to be too biased, I feel like they are just big fans of golf, they will definitely be pulling for the Koreans that are on the team but it will be fun over there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT