TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 26, 2015
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  In these conditions, how good was that round out there for you?  
RICKIE FOWLER: The back nine was really good.  Front nine, it wasn't all that great.  It was nice to hang around there.   
Made a bad bogey at 9.  But other than that, did a good job kind of staying in there and then played a really good back nine.  Knew that was going to be key.  Needed to make some birdies to give myself a chance for tomorrow.   
So yeah, with the conditions, hit some great shots, made some good putts and it's going to go a long ways to put myself in good position for tomorrow.   
 Q.  Assess your possibilities tomorrow?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Still a lot of golf to be played today.  Some guys still out there.  Depends what they do.  Really just needed to put myself where I had a chance for tomorrow.   
So we have done that, not sure how many back we're going to be, but they still have golf to be played and then it's a long day tomorrow.   
So, I'm going to need a really good round tomorrow.  I'm going to be, I'm sure, at least four, possibly five back maybe.  But we gave ourself a chance.   
 Q.  Was it 13 or 14 where you burned the hole back to back?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Let's see, I birdied 11, 12.  And then 13, 14, just missed both of them.   
 Q.  Could have been really low?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, gave myself a lot of good looks on the back nine.  Almost chipped one in on 14 and did a good job of keeping myself in it.   
Made a couple good par putts and nice to finish with a 2 on 18.   
 Q.  What's the toughest part about playing in these conditions?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Staying patient.  It's playing tough out there.  You can hit some good shots that just don't turn out the way you want.  There was some holes that were playing really long.  Not very many times you get to be aggressive.   
So it's a long, long hard fought battle out there today.  So I was definitely pleased with the way I hung in there and then made some birdies and turned it into a great round today.   
 Q.  If you are four or five back heading into tomorrow, does your mentality change to be a little more aggressive do you think out here?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Well luckily there's some holes on the front nine where you can be aggressive with some wedges.  Biggest thing is just going to be getting the ball in the fairway.   
So get the ball in the short grass and get off to a good start on the front nine.  And then I can't control what the guys do out front, but at least if I get out there and make some birdies early, play solid and get off to a good start, then I can at least scare them and show them we're there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT