WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 6, 2015
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Rickie got it to 3 under today.  Rickie, just start off with comments about your round.RICKIE FOWLER: I shot 67.  It wasn't the best ball striking today, which my swing and ball striking has been very good as of late.  I need a little bit of work on that, but nice for my short game to show up and save me a bit there. Had some key putts out there and good up-and-downs.  Like I said, we'll go get a little tune-up and get ready for tomorrow.Q. How tough is it playing out there?  The greens seem real firm.RICKIE FOWLER: They're actually pretty soft compared to yesterday.  I was expecting them to be a bit firmer today.  There's still some sections where they were firm, and they'll continue to dry out as the day goes on. But they were softer this morning than I was expecting.  So gave some opportunities to play aggressive to some pins.  I was expecting the pin on 3, if they put the pin front right there, that we wouldn't be able to get at it, and I ended up spinning one off the green.  Yeah, little things like that. But it's nice with the weather.  They're going to have full control of the golf course and be able to do what they want to do with it.  Hopefully, all rain stays away, and we can get a good solid week of a good setup.Q. How do you typically view this week?  Is it a big tournament on its own?  You got one eye ahead looking to next week?  Does it matter if you play well this week if you're going to do well next week?RICKIE FOWLER: This is a huge week.  I definitely look at WGCs as a big event and one that you want to play well at.  I mean, you got great players, smaller field, no cut.  You kind of just -- you're going four rounds.  You're trying to get after it and get things going, and you still got to look at it as you've got to get off to a good start to have a chance too. No, this is a huge week, and, yeah, you can build momentum off of having a good week here going to the PGA, but by no means, if you struggle here, it doesn't mean you won't play well at the PGA. This is a fun stretch through the summer.  We get a lot of big events, and we're really right in the thick of it right now.Q. Having just won the week before a major, is there any negative to playing well the week before?  Did you notice anything at St. Andrews that might have hurt you because you had won?RICKIE FOWLER: No, definitely not.  I think being in contention and kind of getting things going the week before really almost helps you.  It settles your nerves the next week to know that you were already there just a few days prior and kind of gone through everything.  I think it relaxes you a little bit.Q. It would be good too if you continued this nice little run you're on here.  I know you said it's the best ball striking, but still you've got to score out of it.RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, I did a good job of that last week as well.  A couple of the days where I was able to still just put up a score.  It was big today, getting the ball up and down and continuing to move forward.  Very easily, I could have been even par or over, but kind of turned that off ball-striking day into a 3-under on a course that isn't playing that easy right now.  I'm definitely happy about that. But I'll go get some work in and see if we can clean things up.Q. Just one last thing.  Last week you mentioned how you sort of have to be leery of conserving your energy a little bit here during the stretch.  How does that work next week on a course that I know you played there but not for a while?  On Monday, do you get right after it, or do you rest one day?  How do you approach that?RICKIE FOWLER: I'm planning on cruising around 18 on Monday, but it would just be more like a walk around, hit shots, just kind of sightseeing, seeing the lines, figuring out what we're trying to do.  Tuesday, playing a match.  And then Wednesday's kind of a question mark. So I'll use those first two days to kind of judge where I'm at.  If there's any more work that I need to do Wednesday, I'll do it.  If not, then use that as kind of a relaxer off day to kind of get ready and conserve some energy for Thursday.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT