QUICKEN LOANS NATIONAL
July 31, 2015
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JOHN BUSH: We'd like to welcome Rickie Fowler into the Interview Room.  Currently 10-under par after a 6-under par 65 today.  Rickie, excellent play out there.  If we can get some comments on your 2nd Round.   RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah.  Really looking forward to the weekend.  Wasn't great by any means out there but it was nice to continue to move forward and get a bit out of the round and really it all just came down to the last three holes. Made some good swings and putts and always a great way to finish and give me some confidence.  Really looking forward to going to the weekend.   JOHN BUSH: Speaking about confidence, what's your confidence level is like right now?   RICKIE FOWLER: When the putter gets going it's about as high as it can be.  Swinging really well.  I have been the past couple months.  Swung really well when I was Overseas in Scotland getting one win over there and so really excited about this week. Put myself in a great position going into the weekend and we'll see if we can put ourselves in a position where possibly have a chance to maybe be out front and get one of these wins, since the last two have been from behind.   JOHN BUSH: Questions.   Q.  Rickie, on 18 after your drive you said something along the lines of where has that been all day.  Did you actually hit it worse today than yesterday?  RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, probably hit it worse today.  I drove it better yesterday for sure.  That was the first one I actually hit on the center of the face and where I wanted to.   Q.  You putted better today.  Much better, seemed like.  Any particular reason for that?  RICKIE FOWLER: No, not really.  The greens were worse this afternoon than they were yesterday morning.  That's just the way it goes.  Afternoon rounds they tend to be a little bit of bumpy because of the amount of play. I wouldn't say I putted any better, just happened to get some that went in.  Yesterday was just kind of slid by some of the edges and it really wasn't, I'd say, any better other than 13 and then making the ones coming in, 16, 17, 18.   Q.  Very confident with the one on 18.  Must have felt good over that one.  RICKIE FOWLER: After making two coming in, one being right to left, the other being left to right, I got to see James's putt come down.  Wasn't exactly the same line, by any means, but I got to see the last bit of it turning towards the hole and just gave me an idea what it was going to do down there.  Have to trust it.  Hit a great putt and went right in the middle.   Q.  Can I get your thoughts on Tiger being two back?  RICKIE FOWLER: It's great to see him back on the front page of the leaderboard.  I know he got off to a rough start yesterday.  I know he's never in a position where he's just going to throw in the towel. He fought, clawed his way back.  I didn't get to see much of the round but it sounded like he started to feel a little better about the game and felt good out there and I didn't get to see anything today but, from the sounds of it, it was pretty solid other than what ShotLink said about his drive on what was it, 14?   Q.  161.  RICKIE FOWLER: That's what it said on ShotLink.   Q.  It was.  Popped it up.  RICKIE FOWLER: All right.  That happens.  Hey, I've hit some not so good, either.  No, it's good to see him, you know, moving forward and moving up the leaderboard.  Hopefully he can get out there and get it going tomorrow and we'll have some fun over the weekend.   JOHN BUSH: Next question?  Anything?  Short and sweet.   Q.  You didn't start off very well today.  What turned it around, if anything?  RICKIE FOWLER: I made a good swing on 2.  I hit a horrible drive on 1.  Didn't hit very many solid drives today.  Kept them in play.  Just kind of continue to move forward.  Didn't exactly hit my lines but didn't put myself in bad positions.  Bogey on 8. After that I kind of turned things around and really, like I said, just didn't put myself in any bad positions.  The whole round was kind of summed up on 13 on in.  That was really all it was was scoring there.   JOHN BUSH: Rickie Fowler, thank you, sir  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT