ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 12, 2015
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MICHAEL GIBBONS: Many congratulations, Aberdeen Asset Management Scottish Open champion.  Got a nice ring to it.RICKIE FOWLER: Feels great, yeah.  It's a couple months since the last win and I could definitely get used to winning a little more often.  It's nice to be able to hang around and spend some time with sponsors, media, fans, volunteers and everything for a little bit.  Great Sunday.  Definitely have it in my schedule more often.MICHAEL GIBBONS: You're very welcome to stay as long as you want.  Just tell us about that finish again.  It was brilliant stuff again.RICKIE FOWLER: I knew going into 14, exactly where I stood and I had been playing the last four holes well all week.  I knew 14 was playing tough, and just mis-hit a drive and made it tough to make par there.  It was a minor setback. Just really went into the last four just trying to birdie them all.  Made some great swings, and then just missed on 17.  But that swing at the last, hit a really good drive down 18, as I did yesterday, and was able to feed off of that and hit a wedge in there nice and close.  Didn't have to think about the putt too much.  Just had to make sure that I concentrated on it and make sure it was in the bottom.Q. Your confidence is pretty sky-high after winning The Player's Championship.  But where is your confidence now going into St. Andrews?RICKIE FOWLER: This week, coming over early, and having a chance to play in Scotland against a great field the week before The Open, getting adjusted and seeing where the game is and seeing how it feels on a links golf course, it definitely does a lot for me heading into next week. There are some Americans coming over and using this as a preparation tool.  Some don't but every guy has to kind of make their own decisions for what's best for them.  Last year it was definitely a good start.  Come here, had a good finish and went on to have a good finish at The Open. I'm really looking forward to St. Andrews this coming week, coming off of this win and how my game feels.Q. Can you talk about what a role model Phil has always been for you?RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, Phil's been a huge help to me.  He's someone I love spending time around on and off the golf course and learning as much as I can from him.  He's a great professional, on and off the golf course. So he made sure I was well aware of what he accomplished this morning when I saw him this morning, and told him I would see if I could take care of the first leg of it.  Got that done.  But there's a lot of work to get done to get a win next week.  I really like how my game feels, some things I need to tighten up next few days and be ready to play on Thursday.Q. The way you won The Players Championship, all the talk coming up before that, how much did you use that today to help you, or did you fall back on that?RICKIE FOWLER: After I made bogey on 14, I knew the last four -- a very similar setup to The Players, going 4, 5, 3, 4.  So I knew that I was going to have to make some birdies.  Obviously 11 was posted and guys were playing well and guys were going to probably make birdies coming in, too.  I went into the last four, just like I did at The Players, try to make four birdies and just made good swings and I did just that. I really didn't miss a shot, except a drive on 16, a little left of where I wanted to.  But I really hit some good putts, 15, 16; 17, hit a good putt and just missed low and then saved the best swing for 18. Very similar to down the stretch at The Players, just happened to score a little bit better at The Players, but worked out just fine.Q. Most of the recent media construct has been kind of Jordan Spieth vs. Rory McIlroy head-to-head.  Does that put you back into the mix, or does that not bother you in your quest for world titles and perhaps even World No. 1?RICKIE FOWLER: I've got a lot of work to do, but this is definitely a step in the right direction and a nice win to go into next week. Jordan's been playing some incredible golf and fun to see.  I'm very excited to win The Scottish Open and hopefully moving forward, and looking forward to having a great week next week. You never know, down the road, there could be some good battles with Rory, Jordan, me.  There's a lot of good, young players right now.  So it's hard to really not talk about everyone else, too.Q. The way you spoke about the course in the press conference before the event seemed to suggest you liked your chances here; was that the case, and would you like to see this course in the rota going forward?RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, I thought the golf course was great.  If there's no wind, it's very scorable in a way.  You can go out and make birdies and it's fun.  But it's a fair chance for everyone.  You get some winds like today and it's a true test of golf. It's a great golf course, and the first time I saw it, too, I liked the way it fit my eye.  I also liked the way the golf course was.  It was very straightforward.  Not that it's easy by any means.  It's just visually you can see where you're supposed to go and not supposed to go.  Nothing hidden or too tricky about it. I definitely thought it was a great test this week, and with how I felt comfortable early on, I thought it was a good golf course.  It was in great shape.  Greens were great.  So that gave me some confidence going in and was able to play well.Q. And would you like to have it in the rota going forward?RICKIE FOWLER: I'd love to have it in the rotation, being that I got the win here.  I'd love to come back.Q. You were fairly consistent in the major championships last year.  How do you rate your form now compared to this time last year?RICKIE FOWLER: Well, if we rate, tied for eighth last year at The Scottish Open and win this year, I'd say we're better off.  But the majors last year, I had obviously better finishes than I did this year so far.  But the way my game feels right now going into next week, it's going to be obviously tough to better my finish last year being runner-up with Sergio. But I like my chances.  Feel very good about my game and I'm excited about going back to St. Andrews where I've played well.  Helped jump start my summer last year and right back in the same position this year.Q. How important is it to win on a links course and abroad in your quest to become a complete player?RICKIE FOWLER: Well, I definitely want to be known as a great player.  I want to be one of the best players in the world and have a chance to be world No. 1.  But to be able to win around the world and be a global golfer is definitely something I would want to be and want to be known as. And to win on a links golf course, my favourite style of golf, in Scotland and the week before The Open and going to St. Andrews, the Home of Golf, it's great timing.  Great tournament.  Obviously the venue was great.  I really enjoyed the week.  Good way to start off going into The Open Championship.Q. Just the details, what yardages did you have at the last?  Was it 57-degree wedge you hit?RICKIE FOWLER: 57, yes.  I had 109 hole.  Wind was helping off the left, so I was trying to -- it was a choke-down, take five yards off of it.  Just had to trust starting it left of the hole.  There wasn't a bunch of them over there, so just letting it drift over.MICHAEL GIBBONS: Many congratulations again, well done.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT