ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 9, 2015
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. The bogey-free part of the round, do you like that better?RICKIE FOWLER: I think bogey-free is always -- it doesn't matter what goes on out there.  That's always a good positive to take away.  I don't think you ever have anything bad to say about bogey-free round other than if you hand to hit it really good and miss some putts.  But yeah, bogey-free is always a nice thing.Q. The front nine today, seemed to be it was a testing nine.RICKIE FOWLER: If you hit some shots off-line it made it tough out there.  I wouldn't say the course played particularly hard.  Quite a few birdies, and I made some coming in.  But yeah, if you hit some shots off-line it became a bit tough.  So course is in great shape.  I wish I could have gotten off to a little bit of a better start but nice to finish the way I did.Q. Some guys are saying the greens are slow.  Is it taking a while to adjust?RICKIE FOWLER: They are a pretty good speed.  I left some putts short but also ran a couple by once I got a above the hole.  Good speed.  If the wind does pick up anymore, you don't want to get them too fast and the wind starts affecting them so much.  They may have been on the slower side.  I was happy with the way the course played today.Q. The wind is supposed to pick up this afternoon.  Good to get that early score?RICKIE FOWLER: Well, I'm glad I'm done and with 66, so it's a good start.Q. Martin and Jimmy are both playing well, too.  Are you finding the transition that much easier and quicker to links golf?RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, I mean, we enjoy playing over here and enjoy playing on good golf courses.  So good to see Jimmy get off to a good start.  We played a practice round together Tuesday as we do quite often.  So good to see some close buddies up there doing well and nice to feed off each other.Q. Jimmy didn't know the difference between playing this course and the Old Course because he's never been there.  Can you talk about how much preparation this golf course gives you more next week?RICKIE FOWLER: I think a bit visually.  Wind does typically tend to affect the ball over here more I feel like.  Just having the option to hit some different shots or play the ground if you want to.  This course is a little softer than I would say a typical links but I know St. Andrews has had some rain so it may not be as firm as usual. Just being on a links golf course hitting shots, off the tee visually, the golf course looks different than at home when maybe it's bunkered or tree-lined.  Just getting acclimated and getting adjusted to a different time zone.  That's probably one of the hardest things is adjusting quickly if you come over Sunday or Monday the week of.Q. After Chambers Bay, do you think it's important to have a good tournament?RICKIE FOWLER: It definitely wouldn't hurt.  It can only help if you have a good, solid tournament.  So to piece together some good rounds -- whether it's just one or two or a full tournament.  If could just be one final round on a weekend putting together -- Tiger was able to play well at Greenbrier and kind of piece some things together for The Open.  It can never hurt you to play well leading into a major.Q. Do you treat that as a one-off at Chambers Bay, one of those things that happens?RICKIE FOWLER: I forgot about it till now.  (Laughter).  Yeah, I mean, there's nothing you can really do about it.  Things just start going the wrong way and you can't fine fix it and you just kind of September it, and unfortunate timing but yeah, those days just come and there's other days where it goes the other way and you can't miss the hole.  So kind of give and take.  That's the way life is.  That's the way golf is.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT