DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN HOSTED BY THE RORY FOUNDATION
May 29, 2015
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How do you describe today's 71? 
RICKIE FOWLER:   I left some out there today.   Would have been nice to finish a bit better.   But I'm in a great spot for the weekend.   I'm looking forward to bettering my play as of the past two days.   Like I said, I left a few out there coming in.   Not the way I wanted to finish.   A few 3‑putts over the last two days, and need to clean that up a bit.   I'm excited about the weekend.

Q.   You guys are used to making lots of birdies?
RICKIE FOWLER:   There's a lot of times where you're just playing defensive and trying to keep the ball in front of you and keep it out of trouble.   I ended up in a little bit of trouble on 18 when I really shouldn't have.   So you've got to be careful.   You've always got to have your guard up and there's very few times where you get to be aggressive and try to attack a hole.

Q.   I'm sure you've enjoyed The Irish Open atmosphere, your first experience of it? 
RICKIE FOWLER:   I've had a great time so far.   Big thanks to Rory for the invite.   I was excited to come over and help support him and the foundation and be here playing The Irish Open at one of my favourites, Royal County Down.   I'm excited for the weekend and hopefully have a bit of fun. 

Q.   Talking to Butch today, he said he gave you a couple of ideas.   One, don't get caught up in one‑on‑one, and two, par is golden.   How do you feel? 
RICKIE FOWLER:   Pretty good.   We're in a good spot for the weekend.   Made a few mistakes out there.   I'm happy about that, felt good with the game.   A few 3‑putts that were a little sloppy, a couple errors at the wrong time.   But I like where I'm at going into the weekend.   Definitely in contention and go get ourselves a good one tomorrow, and like I said, just clean it up a bit and put me in a great spot.

Q.   The pars are golden theory, is that something that was close to the front of your head? 
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, you go out there, the wind changes so much as far as how hard it's blowing.   You get rain and all kinds of stuff coming in.   So there's definitely holes that play harder at times depending what the conditions are but a lot of times you are playing defensive and just trying to keep it in front of you, and par is good, if you happen to sneak a birdie in there somewhere, great, and stay away from making any big numbers.

Q.   Any thoughts on what happened with Rory? 
RICKIE FOWLER:   I told him on 18, thanks for having me over here.   I know he's still going to be around over the weekend with his involvement with the tournament.   Pretty cool the position that he's in to be able to host this and with his foundation, benefitting children's cancer.   So I think that's something he got to focus on this week.   Unfortunately didn't get to have the game that he wanted to, but it's a special week for him being involved at The Irish Open here at home.   He'll be back playing well soon. 

Q.   It's also cool, we see you in this position after the players.   Is it just maturity and a lot of stuff coming together all at once?
RICKIE FOWLER:   Definitely a lot of confidence coming off the players.   Played well that week.   I've been playing well and it was nice to finally kick down the door. 
So just staying patient.   I know I'm playing well and just have to let things happen instead of forcing it. 

Q.   Your thoughts on a great score today in very difficult conditions? 
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, I'm happy with where I'm at going into the weekend.   Unfortunate not to get everything that I wanted to out of the round today.   I had a decent round going after I 3‑putted the first, and didn't finish the last three holes the way I wanted to.   But like I say, great spot going into Saturday and Sunday, so looking forward to getting at it tomorrow.

Q.   Have you played in weather like that before? 
RICKIE FOWLER:   I've played in a lot worse.   St. George's, looking back at The Open, that's probably the worst.   So today wasn't too bad.   I enjoy a bit of adversity and some conditions out there, so just try to keep moving forward. 

Q.   You're obviously enjoying your return here to Royal County Down and you're thriving in the setup. 
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, had a lot of great memories from 2007.   So re‑living that and trying to make some new ones. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT