THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2015
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. With the champion in 2015, Rickie Fowler.  You were grinding on the back nine.RICKIE FOWLER: I had the 9-iron I caught on 12, that was a tough break in the bunker off my tee shot on 12 and made four there, kind of gave me some momentum moving forward and took advantage of that and great afternoon.Q. You win it here on perhaps the most famous hole in golf.  How were you able to handle the pressure in that three-man aggregate playoff and then the extra hole?RICKIE FOWLER: Well, I felt really good all week.  My game's felt really good, I struggled a little bit the last two days with some fairways and greens, but got a lot of confidence coming off of last week and it was pretty fun.  This is special.Q. What were you thinking standing on the 17th tee this last time?RICKIE FOWLER: I knew Kisner was going to hit a good shot.  He made a great swing in there, he's been swinging it great.  And he hit a good shot.  He got a little bit of a tough break when it landed on the down slope and kicked forward.  I knew he was going to have a chance to make that putt, he's been rolling it good.  So I had to take advantage of my opportunity there.Q. As popular as a figure you are, not just in golf, but in sports, you have had some detractors lately saying that it's about time you step up and win a big one.  What does this say to those people?RICKIE FOWLER: I would say this is a pretty big one.  So I'm happy about the week.  This will be one I'll look back on for sure.Q. Your second PGA TOUR win, but it's here at THE PLAYERS championship, how does that sound?RICKIE FOWLER: It's amazing.  We obviously look at this tournament as one of the biggest that we play up against the Majors.  This is a special week.  Everyone looks forward to it.  Just happy that I was, that I had a chance after my finish this afternoon to get in the playoff and to be here on 17 and get it done.Q. After that finish in regulation, there was no way you were losing this playoff, was there?RICKIE FOWLER: Well, I mean, obviously, against two great players -- Kisner hasn't been out here very long, but he's a solid golfer, and Sergio, obviously, you don't have to talk much about him, he can play.  And I knew it wasn't going to be easy, I made some good swings, probably my best swing was on 17.Q. Did you have a little bit of extra motivation this week?RICKIE FOWLER: I played well last week and ended up losing on Saturday and in the round of 16, and I felt like my game was where I wanted it to be, and unfortunately, I didn't play as well as I wanted to Saturday here and a little bit in the early parts of the round, but we finished it off strong.Q. Have you ever closed a tournament in spectacular fashion like that?RICKIE FOWLER: I think the one that I look back to is one of my memorable finishes, I have to go back to junior golf.  I birdied four of my last five holes at the Western Junior.  So, it's been awhile.  So it was about time.Q. You birdied 17, this famous par-3, three times in a matter about an hour and a half.  An I know incredible run here at this hole.  Why were you playing this hole so well?RICKIE FOWLER: I play this hole well.  And I had a great number back there.  It was just a choke gap wedge and it started to play a little longer during the playoff than it did in regulation, but still same club and I hit three great shots in there.Q. How much was the crowd a factor?  They were really on your side.  Especially during the aggregate and the sudden death?RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, I could definitely tell I was hearing my name chanted quite a bit.  And it's, you know, whether it's added pressure or not it's always great to have a lot of support.  I've always had that.  Big thanks to my fans for sure.  Just feels good to be back in the winners circle.Q. PLAYERS champion, how does that sound?RICKIE FOWLER: Pretty good.  It may sink in by tomorrow, but I'm not sure about that.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT