DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN HOSTED BY THE RORY FOUNDATION
May 28, 2015
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, you know, the wind kind of kept coming up and laying down, get some sunshine, a bit of rain here and there.   We're going through some right now, but just had to be patient.   It was definitely a little interesting out there at times, and just kept looking forward.   I made a few mistakes.   Wish I could have gotten off to a little bit of a better start after I birdied the first two, continued that on.   But all in all, off to a good start, looking forward to tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   I bet you enjoy the challenge of links golf.   It's not easy, but you have to come up with so many different types of shots.   
RICKIE FOWLER:   I love playing links golf.   You get to hit a lot of different shots, and depending on the weather, the wind direction out there, the course can play completely different.   So you kind of just have to take what it gives you and go out there and give it your best.  
   
 Q.   PLAYERS Championship you finished off in incredible style.   
RICKIE FOWLER:   I've been able to watch it a little bit.   I haven't watched it all the way through and been able to see kind of the celebration afterwards a whole lot.   Got home, ran (indiscernible).   On the 17th to win, but going and watching videos on line and seeing celebration with my mom and my girlfriend Alexis is pretty special, so it's something I'll be able to go back to for a long time.  
   
 Q.   Can you summarize round one for us?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   Off to a good solid start.   I got it going early, birdied the first two holes and unfortunately three‑putted my third hole to make par there.  
Played fairly solid out there, and kind of kept it together on a tough day, so off to a good solid start, looking forward to tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Tough day for the tournament host, your playing partner today?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah.   That's not the kind of start that you want to get off to.   And obviously Rory has been playing very well, so I'm assuming he'll be just fine come tomorrow and he'll turn things around.  
   
 Q.   Enjoy our Northern Ireland weather.   Thank you very much.   Rickie, we know you like playing links golf.   It's a little severe today.   How did you kind of get your head wrapped around it to shoot the kind of number you did?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   I got off to a good start.   I left a couple out there early, but just really tried to keep moving forward and stay patient.   Not very many opportunities to play aggressive today.   Just tried to have fun and wait for some of these storms going through and the rain and the wind.   Just have to kind of put some things behind you and keep moving forward, so I was able to do that fairly well, got off to a good, solid start and looking forward to tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Hard for Rory to have fun in this obviously.   As a friend you feel for him.   
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, it's tough to see.   You don't want to see someone struggle and not the start that he was looking for this week.   So I'm assuming that it'll be a little different day tomorrow for him.   
That's golf.   We've all been through it, and I'm sure we'll go out and have some fun, hopefully feed off of each other tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Looks like you said something to him at nine green, you had a little conversation.   Can you share with us?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   I really just said, you know, let's go get after it tomorrow.   You know, and I've been there plenty of times.   Everyone that plays golf at a high level, low level, whatever, you have good days and bad days.   So tomorrow's a new day and we'll go out and have some fun.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT