THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 8, 2015
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: We would like to welcome Rickie Fowler to the interview room.  Rickie shot a 3-under par 69 today to finish at 6-under par for the tournament.  Well done.  Talk a little bit about your round.RICKIE FOWLER: Excited about the weekend, that's for sure.  Haven't gotten quite as much as I wanted to out of the round the first two days, but in a great position.  Game plan feels really good.  Excited about tomorrow and getting off to a good start.THE MODERATOR: Take questions, please.Q. You finished 16 and you have two holes left, and what's going through your head when you want to get two birdies, try to get maybe get in the final group on Saturday?RICKIE FOWLER: Final group or tee time or anything is not really a thought.  Really the biggest thing was just walking 17 focusing on making a good swing there.  That's all I can do.  That was the only thing that was on my mind at that point was obviously wanting to finish strong, but the one thing that I had to focus on is just making a good solid swing on 17.Q. Fooled by the putt or did you just try to jam it on 18 and pull it or what?RICKIE FOWLER: No, I was fooled.  I had the grain going right and I thought it was going to drift a little right.  I got up over it, so I was playing it kind of left of center, left center, and I got up over it and felt some left tendency in my feet, but I tried to get myself just to trust what I originally saw and hit it, and the ball moved left kind of the first part of the putt, and that's why it caught the left side of the hole. So a bit fooled.  Maybe should listen to my feet a little bit more.  Typically my feet are right on.  But I just tried to trust what I originally saw and I was off.Q. Is that what you remember when you leave here, or do you remember something else?RICKIE FOWLER: I remember the swings that I made on 17 and 18.  Probably the drive more so on 18.  That was the best drive I've hit the past two days.  To step up and do that, after making a bad swing on the 16th.  I hit a good putt on 17, which was nice. I hit a good putt on 16, just didn't hit it hard enough. And then 18, I screwed up because I hit it where I was looking.  Maybe I should have pushed it and it would have went in.Q. When we talked to you yesterday, you said ball striking was sort of the key to your round.  Was that big for you again today?  Seemed like you were really firing at some pins out there.RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, swing still felt good.  I had a couple swings that have cost me the first two days, but bad swings are going to happen. Feel very comfortable, the swing feels very good.  I'm hitting putts on line.  So, if we get some more to go in this weekend, it will be a lot of fun.Q. Speaking of comfortable, are you comfortable on this course?  Is really anybody comfortable on this course?  How do you look at TPC Sawgrass?RICKIE FOWLER: I played very well here at times and I haven't played well here at times.  It's a course where if you're not on top of your game, it will show it, but if you are playing well and ball striking is there, you can get after it a bit. This week, luckily I'm on the good side and I can get around and play this course well.  But like I said, you can't really look past anything.  Really, at any time you make a bad swing at the wrong time, you're making bogey, double or maybe worse.Q. Did you feel the wind was less of a factor today than it was yesterday?RICKIE FOWLER: Definitely.  It was blowing pretty good when we went through 17 and 18.  18, I hit driver, 5-iron and I needed to hit 4-iron probably.  Tee was a little bit up today and I hit driver, gap wedge.  So there's a little bit of a difference there.  And I actually hit a good drive yesterday. So, it did lay down and laid down a little bit towards the end, but there was still, had to play a little bit of breeze at times out there.  But a little bit less today than yesterday.Q. The cut's only eight shots back of the lead, does that change anything having that tightly packed of a group of guys hole play the weekend?RICKIE FOWLER: Well, anyone that's playing the weekend has a chance, the way you're looking at it.  Someone can go out and shoot, 6-, 7-, or 8-under tomorrow and be right back in it.  Unless someone really runs away with a good round that's around the 6-, 7-, or 8-under guys.  I don't know if anyone is at 7.  But yeah, it's really still anyone's golf tournament, but someone that's even or 1-under is going to have to string two really good days together.Q. I know you spoke to it yesterday and I know you had fun with Poulter on Twitter with it, but on this weekend, could you use that survey as any motivation?RICKIE FOWLER: Definitely.  If I need any extra.  If there's a time where I need something to kind of give me a kick in the butt, then I can think of that and it will put me in the right frame of mind to go out there and take care of business.THE MODERATOR: All right.  Thank you, good luck tomorrow.RICKIE FOWLER: Thank you.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT