THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 7, 2015
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What kind of optimism did you have after that putt on 17?RICKIE FOWLER: Obviously got off to a good start, but I don't think you really look ahead too much on this golf course.  There's nothing really to look forward to as far as thinking that you're going to be able to go attack and get after it.  You have to stay in the moment and keep pushing forward, because there's no real easy holes out here.  It can jump up and bite you at any time.  So I knew I was off to a good solid start but still had a lot to play.Q. Satisfied or dissatisfied today?RICKIE FOWLER: Happy.  Off to a good solid start and in a good position, but also not too satisfied because I kind of gave away quite a bit there.  Could have been a really good round today.Q. What were you talking about with the rules official on 3?  What was the issue on that lie?RICKIE FOWLER: Well it was just up against some cables so I couldn't get it to stay after I moved the cables.Q. You've been really good here and really not so good at times, as well.  Is this do you feel one of the weeks where it could be really good for you again?RICKIE FOWLER: Well, I would say if it's been -- that we have had one really good finish here and then some that haven't been so well, but this is definitely trending towards a really good week.Q. Brooks had a challenge early and you had to worry about your own game, but he made a nice little mid-course correction, played pretty well the last eight holes.  Did that tell you something about him to see him reverse his form?RICKIE FOWLER: It was good to see him hang in there and fight back to give at least give himself a shot where tomorrow he can go play a solid round and be here for the weekend.  It could have been very easy to hang it up and kind of not care coming in.  But he showed me a lot about his character, and he's a good buddy of mine.  It was nice to see him step up and make some progress coming in.Q. You mentioned focusing on every shot.  How hard is that to do after you get off to that great start and then the double bogey happens?RICKIE FOWLER: It's just a bad swing.  Really started, just got back and refocused there.  I had looks on the next two holes from 10 feet and didn't make those and so just kind of a bad swing at the wrong time.  I made some good swings after that, just wasn't able to take advantage of anything.Q. The way you played in Match Play is so different than how you play out here.  How much can you take out of a week like last week to apply here?RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, Match Play, what's good is kind of focusing on the one hole at a time; really all can you do is try and do the best that you can on that hole and then move on.  So, maybe sometimes you wander and think back in some rounds or think about what's ahead in stroke play, versus just that shot and that hole at that exact moment.Q. Take anything out of last week?RICKIE FOWLER: Definitely, yeah.  With the way I played, some of the putts that I made, definitely gave me confidence moving forward, and ball striking has been good all year, just haven't been able to get much out of the game when you're not making putts.  So the biggest thing from last week was actually seeing some putts go in at the right time and I'll take that into this week.Q. Seems every week there's talk of a new rivalry of sorts between young players, whether it's you and Jordan or Rory and Jordan or vice-versa.  Is too much made of that, or is the potential idea of a rivalry among you guys a good thing?RICKIE FOWLER: Well, we're all good buddies, so I don't think there's going to be a hate rivalry or anything like that.  There's a lot of really good young players right now so you're going to see a group of 10 or so guys where any given week there could be two guys out in contention, and that's the rivalry for the week.  But I would say, obviously, Rory and Jordan have distanced themselves as of right now being 1 and 2 in the world, Rory especially with the way he's played the past year, year and a half. So some of us have some work to do to even talk about a rivalry, but I'm up for it.  It's nice to be back playing well, and we'll see if we can get a little bit more out of the rounds moving forward.Q. There's been a survey that's been around for 10 years now; did this last one irritate you at all?RICKIE FOWLER: No.Q. I don't think you've ever been anything that drew any criticism from the time you've been out here, and that's kind of the first?RICKIE FOWLER: It's fine by me.  I'm going to try and play as well as I can this week and I'm going to take care of my business.Q. If they're calling you overrated, does it mean something maybe we overrate wins?RICKIE FOWLER: I have no clue.Q. Is winning overrated is what I'm getting at?  Is consistency not rated?RICKIE FOWLER: I guess Top-5's in four Majors aren't that good.  So one of three isn't that good, so...  Like I said, I'll take care of my business and I'll be just fine.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT