THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2015
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Did you get to a point at 13 or 15 whether you started making birdies were you like, man, I got -- this feels great?  RICKIE FOWLER: No, I mean, especially on this golf course, you never really get too far ahead of yourself.  I got on a little bit of a roll there.  12 I made a good par from a tough lie.  13 was a good birdie.  And 14, had a tough lie in the rough and was able to make four there as well.  So, 15, I got up there and just thought, do one better.   Q.  Did you know that second shot at 16 was close?  RICKIE FOWLER: I hit it, I pushed it for where I was aiming, obviously trying to aim left and let it drift in there a little to the right and it started a little right of where I wanted to, but that's why you aim a little left and give your self some room.   Q.  In the playoff, do you, you know you got to make some birdies here, because these guys are good players?  RICKIE FOWLER: Obviously the guys have been playing well all week and they're in the playoff for a reason, so no one's going to lay down.  The playoff I was in before at Wells Fargo at Quail Hollow I knew I was going to have to step up and hit a shot at some point. With here, having three holes, you can't take your self out of it, but you got to go out and play some good solid golf.  So 1-under was probably what would continue, 2-under may get the job done, and that's kind of the way it was and I made some really good swings.   Q.  You played the 17th amazing.  What was the key there?  RICKIE FOWLER: I had a great number there on 17.  I was able to just hit a choke down gap wedge and it played a little longer in the playoff the two times, but just had a good number, I've always liked playing 17, it's been good to me, I played it well all week.   Q.  Have you thought about how you would play a three hole playoff before you went over to 16?  Had you thought about strategy?  RICKIE FOWLER: Not so much.  I mean, once I finished I knew that was where the three holes that we would be playing if there was a playoff and I was just hoping to have that chance, once some guys were making birdies out there and getting to 11 and 12. So, strategy-wise, it doesn't really change from what you would do in a tournament going into the three hole stretch.   Q.  (No Microphone.)  RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, no, like I said I played 17 pretty well.   Q.  How much did the overrated poll matter to you this week?  RICKIE FOWLER: It doesn't matter to me.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT