WGC CADILLAC MATCH PLAY
May 2, 2015
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Looked at me and said one bad swing at the wrong time.   What happened there?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   Came out bad.   Obviously you can't hit it left of that pin.   Trying to hit one that starts out and holds, and it falls right.   Maybe a little quick coming out of it, and obviously too far right.   To the right of the green is actually okay over there.   But I had good stuff on the course.  
   
 Q.   A lot of fighting back there.   
RICKIE FOWLER:   Obviously kind of had to stay patient today.   Louis was playing really well.   And was kind enough to miss a couple of putts for me.   
But, no, fought hard.   I had to fight in a couple other matches.   And it felt good to kind of be able to pull out birdies or save pars when I really needed to.   A lot of good coming out of that round, a lot of confidence moving forward.   
Unfortunately didn't make the swings coming in on the par‑3, 17th.   But obviously the drive on 18 couldn't have been better.   That was a great swing.   Made a lot of really good swings out there.   Nice to have the putter back working.   So I'm feeling good going into The PLAYERS next week.  
   
 Q.   The biggest difference is the putter this week?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, I've been swinging well.   The ball‑striking has been great.   It's hard to really score and get momentum or build any kind of round out of not making putts.   That's probably been the biggest difference for me.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, I mean pretty similar position.   I wish match play was a little earlier this year, might have helped me out.   Might have gotten a jump start earlier on.   A lot of good came from this week.   
I knew Louis was going to be tough today.   He's been playing well.   He's a solid player.   Gave him a good fight.   He was kind to me and he missed a couple out there, otherwise he would probably have taken care of me a little earlier.  
   
 Q.   You always expect good things out of your opponent but where he was off the tee and hoping the ball was down a little bit on 18, can you talk about the second shot?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, the rough is spotty around the course.   You can draw some decent lies, but you can also get some really bad lies.   I was over there early in the week and I was able to advance a little 5‑wood up there close to the green.   I wasn't expecting that he wasn't going to be able to get it up there or anything.   And he's a strong guy, so it's no surprise that he hit that shot.   And it was just one of those ones that you get on line has a good chance of running up there.   And not a very big opening.   But he hit the shot he needed to.  
   
 Q.   The shot on 14, you're downwind in the rough, to be able to stop it like you did, a lot of guys were struggling with that shot.   
RICKIE FOWLER:   Had to go with a short club there.   I knew short of the pin was a better lead, if anything.   I had 117 to cover, and a 57 degree.   Obviously asking a lot out of a sand wedge.   But got it to jump a little bit, got the help, and it flew perfect on the upslope, pretty key birdie at that time.   
   
 Q.   There's such a suddenness to losing in this format.   But you're going to leave here with some pretty nice momentum moving forward.   
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, won the first three matches.   Played really well against Graham, the first two not so great.   But I was able to kind of fight through it, get what I needed to get done.   
And I was in a similar position today, I was able to fight through it and fight back.   My back was up against the wall.   I think one of the biggest putts that I made, I think it was 8, when Louis hit it close, and I made it and he missed.   I knew if I missed that putt the match was pretty much over, in a way.   There's momentum changes in match play, that was a putt where I said I have to make this.   If I don't, then we're pretty much done.   So I was able to dig down and kind of pull through when I needed to.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT