MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2015
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   67 today, tied for the low round on the golf course.   Talk about the conditions out there and how it led to your low score. 
RICKIE FOWLER:   Well, the course started to firm up as the day went on.   It was a little firmer to start and then it's quite nice out there right now.   The greens are finally getting their speed and you can get the ball funneling the way these greens work.   So, it's fun to finally get to see that this week after how humid it's been at night and they have been struggling to get the greens firm and fast. 
So, I enjoyed it, it was a lot of fun out there, I played well.   Unfortunate not to get the most out of the round that I could have, but good solid weekend and good finish.

Q.   What was the highlight today?
RICKIE FOWLER:   The eagle was nice.   Especially after I hit it close on 12 and decided to 3‑putt that. 
So that was a nice rebound there.   So, yeah, 3 on 13's always good.

Q.   You always seem to play well here.   When is your time coming?
RICKIE FOWLER:   I'm hoping soon.   The golf's definitely good enough.   My offense is on point, but I got to get rid of some mistakes.

Q.   Any thoughts about what might happen over this final nine with what's going on out there?
RICKIE FOWLER:   Well, it's, the greens are starting to get a little slick and firmer, so Jordan's obviously been playing well and he's continuing to do so.   So, if he stays on top of his game he has an advantage over the other guys. 
It's not easy out there.   There are birdies, if you're playing well and hitting some good shots.   But you got to be on top of your game. 

Q.   Are you happy with how you played?
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, I'm happy.   I played well over the weekend.   I got a decent amount out of it today, I had it going for a bit, but a few mistakes which I wish I could have gone back and gotten a couple out of that.   But good solid round, good finish, and I was excited to get into the weekend with where I was at with six holes or so to play on Friday.   So, I got a lot out of it, I'm happy about that.

Q.   You had a top‑5 finish in all five Majors last year.   What is it that you feel you need to focus on in order to get back to the top of that leaderboard?
RICKIE FOWLER:   I definitely have enough offense, I've been making a lot of birdies and a nice eagle today on 13.   But just making silly mistakes, whether it's mental errors leading to bad swings and putting myself in bad positions, so got to get rid of the big numbers and eliminate some bogeys.   So tighten some things up and be good to go. 

Q.   Is the PLAYERS something you look forward to?
RICKIE FOWLER:   The PLAYERS is one that we definitely look forward to.   Obviously, playing against one of the best fields of the year, so looking forward to playing New Orleans and then Match Play and be ready to go for the PLAYERS. 

Q.   No top‑5 this year, I guess, but still a pretty good performance and you have had a few here.   Can you just maybe talk about how this place seems to suit you?
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, I really love playing here.   You get to use your imagination, it's a ball‑striker's golf course and use your imagination around the greens as far as short game and putting.   I would have had a top‑5 finish if I could have eliminated a few mistakes this weekend.   I had a real good round going yesterday and today.   So, could have had two or three easily out of it, just today.   And you never know about yesterday. 
So, got a few things to work on, tighten it up, but, yeah, seems like I get more and more comfortable and the more times I come here and make more and more birdies.   So I guess that's a good thing.

Q.   It seemed like you really turned it on from the moment that it looked like you were in danger of missing the cut.   Was it an effort and focus thing or did, was there a technical thing that you figured out about that time?
RICKIE FOWLER:   I have no clue exactly.   I definitely flipped the switch and got things going with six to play on Friday.   Since then, we have played quite nicely.   I guess a few mistakes and a few places where we could have salvaged a few shots and I would have been standing here finishing top‑5.   But no, I played really well the last 42 holes or so. 
Just need to do that for 72.   I would possibly wearing a jacket.   So a lot of good coming out of the week, but need to get rid of some mistakes.

Q.   What's your take on Jordan when you see not only him and the position he's in at 21 and everything, but just what he's doing and the way he's been able to pick this place apart?
RICKIE FOWLER:   Oh, I feel like him coming out last year his first Masters and playing well, that does a lot just for his confidence around here.   Typically it can take some guys a little bit of time to get used to the place here, but you come out and you put a couple good rounds under your belt and you're off and running.   It makes things a lot easier.   So, his good play last year I'm sure has helped him this year and he's been playing well as of late, so I don't think it matters what golf course he's playing. 

Q.   Can you talk about your score on the back nine, the eagle at 13 and what you hit in on 16 and 14?
RICKIE FOWLER:   Let's see, eagle on 13, I hit a 3‑wood a little around the corner, had 6‑iron in.   Made a nice putt. 
Then 14, driver and 9‑iron.   Made about a 10‑footer for birdie. 
Then 16, just held a 7‑iron in there.   I made a nice putt there.   Probably about a 20‑footer. 

Q.   How long was the putt at 13?
RICKIE FOWLER:   13 was probably about 25 feet uphill. 

Q.   Does this give you a lot of confidence going into the rest of the Majors this year?
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah.   Feel really good about the game, like I said, just getting rid of some of the mistakes, whether it's just bad swings, just method, process, commitment, whatever it is.   Yeah, looking forward to a little bit of rest in this week coming um and getting ready for three in a row and be ready to go.

Q.   A lot of eagles this week, I know you had a great one on 13, can you talk about how special it is to win the crystal?
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, this will be my third set of crystal.   It's one of the first things you think about after making an eagle.   It's pretty special. 
Yeah, there have been a lot of eagles.   The course has been somewhat receptive the first three days and it's starting to firm up now, but you can hit some good shots here and end up with not a whole lot left for an eagle.   So it makes this place fun.   Especially the back nine.   13, 15 and where the pin is on 14, there's a lot that can happen there. 

Q.   You've known Jordan a bit now.   When you see him as a player, what makes him stand out?
RICKIE FOWLER:   He does everything pretty good.   So I don't think he really has much of a weakness, maybe the only weakness is that he actually gets in his own way.   He's a great ball‑striker, he's one of the best putters out here and he's got a short game to keep him moving forward.   So he's been playing really well the past four or five months, obviously kind of starting with his win down in Australia.   If he gets in his own way kind of a thing is his only weakness.   He's been in control of this golf tournament from day one.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT