WGC CADILLAC MATCH PLAY
April 30, 2015
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You always looked like you are going to win that match, right?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   Looked like I had complete control of it, didn't it?   Been waiting a long time to make some putts, so it was nice to have those come in on the last few holes on the back nine.  
   
 Q.   Hanging on and winning this match, you have won your group and you are the first guy to advance to the round of 16.   
RICKIE FOWLER:   I'm looking forward to building a bit tomorrow, work on the game.   Little loose the past couple of days.   Luckily made some good putts.   If we can get everything clicking, it will be a very good weekend.  
   
 Q.   The putter was absolutely spectacular to help you win this match.   Your thoughts on how this played out?   
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, I had to kind of fight and claw my way back.   Shane gave me a couple of holes on the back nine, which I needed to get back into it, and made some great putts coming in.   It's been a long time coming that I've been waiting to make putts like that since towards the end of last year.   So nice to see those go in, make a nice putt for birdie on the last.   
Excited for tomorrow, get things going and get ready for the weekend.   
   
 Q.   Tell me about the 30‑footer you made at 17.   
RICKIE FOWLER:   The plan was do get the ball inside of his, so I had him trying to make two.   I'd at least have the roll at par after him.   I think that was quite a big putt obviously there.   If I missed, I'm basically conceding the hole because I give him the 2‑putt there.   I'd be walking down 18 1‑down.   
   
 Q.   So thoughts now?   You are 2 & 0 in your pod.   
RICKIE FOWLER:   It's great.   I had a hard fought match with Harris yesterday, as well.   He's a great player.   We had a tough match.   It was hard to beat.   Try to get as much as I could out of it today.   Just snuck it out.   
Looking forward to moving forward.   Like I said, just trying to get the game more consistent, get the swing in more control.   We'll be good to go for the weekend.  
Tomorrow I want to go out and play a good match and get the win there, but that's not going to any easy task.   Being into the weekend is nice to kind of have a day where you see kind of continue to see what I need to work on.   The game hasn't been perfect the past few days.   Luckily I've been able to get enough out of it to win my matches.   If we can tighten the swing up, continue to make some putts, it's going to a really fun weekend.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible).   
RICKIE FOWLER:   Probably making a couple of putts coming in.   That was a big saver.   I wasn't swinging the greatest today.   Felt good with the irons.   Driver was a little loose, but I hit some long putts at the end.   That was nice.   Kept the momentum of the match going our way.   Had to make a tricky 8‑footer on the last hole to win.  
   
 Q.   Considering this is a pressure bounding situation out here, you can take a deep breath and relax a bit tomorrow.   What does that do for your outlook moving forward?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   Definitely a stress reliever right there.   Not having to go tomorrow and have to worry about making the weekend.   Obviously I still want to go out and play a good match and win the match.   In a way it will give me time to work on stuff and figure out what I have going in the weekend, what I may have to work on a little bit more and see if we can tighten the game up a little bit.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   I was a rookie on tour when Peter won the Amateur.   I was looking at going up there maybe after Memorial, but I don't think I'm going to go.   I might go Saturday or Sunday.   
   
 Q.   You are the first player to officially make it through.   Is that good?   How do you approach tomorrow?   As a practice round more than anything?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   It's great to be through the weekend.   As far as tomorrow, I want to go and play a good match and win the match, but it will give me a little bit of time to relax and look forward to the weekend, figure out a little bit more what we need to tighten up in the game.   It's been far from perfect the past few days, but was able to get enough out of my game and obviously make some good putts.  
   
 Q.   Strong finish for you today?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, made a couple least loose swings coming in.   But other than that, the game feels good.   I've been swinging well as of late.   Unfortunately, not as great today but the putter saved me coming in.  
   
 Q.   It makes for an interesting day.   Noncompetitive round in the middle of match play?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   Don't worry, I'll still be competitive.   There's still pride involved.   It's not like I want to give away a match or anything like that.   It's still going to be a great day, a lot of fun.   The weather is going to be perfect tomorrow.   Great fans out.   
Obviously I'm going to go at it and work on the game a little bit, see how I'll move forward from there.   By no means am I going to take it as a practice round.   Still want to go out and play well and play a good fun match.   A little bit of stress off the shoulders, that's for sure.  
   
 Q.   Did you compute everything in your mind what you had to do today?   
RICKIE FOWLER:   I knew if I won and Harris won, it would somewhat I had a chance at being locked.   Obviously all I can do is take care of my match.   Didn't exactly take care of it the way I wanted to.   At the end of the day, I'm happy with it.  
   
 Q.   Did you scoreboard watch the other match?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   I did a little bit.   I saw it early on.   Later in the day, last eight or nine holes, wasn't able to see a whole lot.   
   
 Q.   Have you looked ahead to see who is in your opposite group?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   I think I would get Bubba if he moves on.   We had mentioned that because that came out earlier in the week that our groups were playing each other.   We've played a lot together.   If that happens, it will be a fun match come Saturday.  
   
 Q.   What would that be like?   That's someone that you are friends with?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   Probably be like one of our practice rounds during the week or playing at home.   We play every once in a while when I'm staying at his house at Isleworth or when we're on the road.   We don't have any competitive matches, but there's definitely some pride involved in playing.   I always want to hit it closer than him or shoot lower and he wants to do the same.   It will be a glorified version of that.  
   
 Q.   Will you make him putt everything?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   He's going to be putting everything outside of drip length.  
   
 Q.   Do you even try to outdrive him?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   No.   I won't be trying to outdrive him.   I'll try to upset him.   If that chance comes up on Saturday, both of us will be excited to play each other and hopefully it's some good golf.   Whoever plays better will move on.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT