MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2015
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   5 over at one point.   So to bring it back to where you got it, how rewarding does that feel?
RICKIE FOWLER:   It feels pretty good now.   It was pretty stressful out there.   Had it to 3‑over early, got it back to 1 and‑‑ I think I got it back to 1, I'm not sure‑‑ and quickly went back to 5.   It can happen quickly out here.   You can make a lot of birdies, but you can also make a lot of bogeys.   It's nice to finish the way I did, birdieing four of the last six.
Looking forward to getting some rest and hopefully go out and play well this weekend. 

Q.   When you fare as well as you fared last year in majors, do you go into this week putting more pressure on yourself than you did maybe a year ago?
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, I mean I know I can play, compete in majors, and I'm comfortable being on the leaderboard.   Just unfortunate to not play the way I'd like to and get off to the start I needed to get to to be in contention.   Spieth is playing really well, Jordan and Charley. 
So we can see what we can do this weekend to salvage a good finish and hopefully be back in contention at the majors coming up the rest of the year.

Q.   Anything in particular you felt that you were struggling with today or just‑‑
RICKIE FOWLER:   A little bit of everything.   Hit a lot of good shots in every part of the game, but also missed a shot in every part of the game.   Everything can tighten up.   I can pitch and chip the ball better, make more putts, drive a bit better.
So I think if I can do that, it would be a really good weekend.   But it's a lot easier said than done.

Q.   How much does just grit and determination do you feel like inside you play a part, when you look at the score and say, hey, I've got to make it happen here or I'm going home?
RICKIE FOWLER:   You know, basically do or die.   You come down and know that after yesterday the cut was looking like 2 or so.   I know right now it has a chance to go to 3.   But 2 is a good number to get back to.   It was nice to have that birdie look on 18 to get to 1, make sure I was safe there.
But, yeah, when I made par on 12, and six to play, luckily you have 13 and 15 to look forward to.   If I hadn't gotten those birdies it would make things a lot tougher.   But those are holes that you expect to make birdie and if you make par you're kind of not too satisfied about that. 

Q.   Speaking about the earlier part of your career, when you get to 5‑over, to sort of not quit.   But it's hard to summon that, what you did?
RICKIE FOWLER:   I've always had the fight in me.   I don't like going home, that's for sure.   I don't want to be missing out on a weekend here.   Anytime you can play Augusta, whether it's in a tournament or practice round or just come up for a trip to play, I look forward to that.   So luckily I made some birdies coming in that will let me play some more rounds here.








END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT