THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 25, 2015
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  AMANDA HERRINGTON:   We got a recording welcome Rickie Fowler to the interview room at The Honda Classic.   This is your sixth straight start here, three consecutive Top‑25s.   How do you feel about this week?   
RICKIE FOWLER:   Feeling great.   Obviously this is kind of my second home.   I've been a resident down here in South Florida in Jupiter for, I guess five years now.   So it's nice to be sleeping in my own bed, being at home, some home cooking.   
And I'm excited to get things turned around.   Off to a little bit of a slow start, but at least getting to play the weekends which is just little bit better.   Getting some things turned the right direction, get some momentum going and getting back to being in contention and make it a fun year.   
   
 Q.   What stands out when you think about the first time you set foot on Augusta National?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   I think the biggest thing for me was when I walked out of the clubhouse, just kind of seeing where everything was, seeing it on TV, you don't really understand the routing of the course or what kind of land it's built on, how much movement there is, elevation change.   
The thing I remember most is turning in and the guards actually letting me in and driving down Magnolia Lane.   
   
 Q.   You ran into a you couple of buzzsaws last summer, Kaymer and later Rory.   What is gap with Rory and the rest of the field right now and what is it going to take for you guys to close that gap?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   Well, I mean, he's the best player in the world, so he is that the gap right now.   He's on top of his game, obviously through last year.   And when he's driving the ball well, that's when he's deadliest.   So he did a good job of putting himself in play last year and obviously hits longer than a lot of guys, too.   
For me, I put myself in a lot of great positions.   I felt like I was in the best position on the back nine at the PGA and just wasn't able to really take advantage of it.   I wasn't able to make putts when I needed to and I didn't get the ball close, so therefore, just missing out there.   
But you talk about, yeah, buzzsaws, U.S. Open and then at The Open Championship, there's not a whole lot you can do when guys go out and distance themselves like that, it doesn't happen very often.   Typically there's a little bit more at stake, when Kaymer was out front and had full control of the tournament.   Never really able to get close enough to even show them a wheel.   
That being said, if I can put myself in some of those positions this year again, maybe I'll be able to be a buzzsaw.   Maybe I'll be out there up front.  
   
 Q.   Is it a few putts; is there something you've identified?   
RICKIE FOWLER:   The biggest thing for me, we looked at the end of the year is just getting better at 150 yards and in.   I felt like proximity to the hole and giving myself actual looks at birdie from that range, and some of the mistakes; you can't be making bogeys or anything worse from that area, and should be making birdie a lot of times.   That's what I'm working on doing better and that's where I can turn things around.   
   
 Q.   Kind of a similar question, but in Tiger's heyday, the rest of the field would kind of consider him the man to beat at every tournament obviously, and if you could beat Tiger, you could win the tournament.   Is it becoming that way with Rory?   
RICKIE FOWLER:   I don't think so yet.   Obviously there's a lot of great players.   Rory being No. 1 in the world, yeah, you want to be the best player in the world at the time.   But there's a lot of guys playing really well, and a lot of good, young players, as well.   
So I feel like you beat a handful of guys ranked anywhere inside the Top‑10, 20, 30 in the world, you're feeling pretty good about your game.   But yeah, Rory being No. 1 in the world, it does mean something if coming down the stretch you were to better had I am.  
   
 Q.   Obviously with Tiger being out, working on his game this week, just wondering, have you ever gone into a tournament or a stretch of tournaments where you didn't feel like your game was tournament‑ready, kind of as he has stated in his case?   
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, I feel like beginning of last year going through changes with Butch, I mean, I was ready to go play but as far as actually having tested stuff in a tournament, I had not played in a tournament with changes and new thoughts and trying to good out and score.   
But the best thing for me was to go battle through it and even missing cuts, I actually surprisingly, I was hitting the ball well.   I wasn't making putts, so it was kind of a little backwards.   Once I got things turned around, obviously had a great year.   
But for me, I always felt like getting out on the course, whether it's finding a way to score at home, money games or anything that puts a little bit of pressure or puts you in a similar situation to a tournament or going to play in tournaments is the best practice, for sure.  
   
 Q.   Do you have an anticipation and curiosity to see when he does come back what it's like and if he's getting it back again?   And as part of that, too, do you feel for the scrutiny?   You guys are all a little bit different in terms of everybody's kind of got an eye on him obviously and every move he makes, it's not the same for all you guys?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   I definitely feel for him as far as, like I know he's struggling with his health and with his game and getting back to 100 percent all around.   
I think was it last year at Doral, or the year before, they showed him driving down the street in his car.   I mean, can't go anywhere.   I don't have to deal with that yet.   
Hopefully I have the chance to play well enough where I might be in that position but he's definitely distanced himself as far as one of the most recognizable athletes in the world.   As he should be; he's one of the best players to ever live.  
But hopefully I'll be able to catch up with him, maybe add medalist, see if I can get in his wallet or something, help get him ready.   It's fun to practice around him and play every once in a while.   We definitely want to get him back.   We want to get him back playing well and being healthy.   He's great for the game.   We wouldn't be in the position we are now with the title sponsors and the people involved in the game without him.   
   
 Q.   You referenced earlier the slow start.   Anything you can put that to, after having such a great year, did you maybe let down a little bit or take a little more time to get back into it or is it just part of your game possibly?   
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, a little bit of everything probably.   I probably could have prepared a little bit better through the off‑season.   I wanted to enjoy some time off and just be able to relax a little bit after a good, long successful year.   
But no, I'm happy with what Butch and I have been doing.   Him and I got some really good work in last week and really looking forward to buckling down and looking ready forward to Augusta, and that's really the main focus in the near future.   
I'm excited about the game and really getting back into the swing of things.   It's a little unfortunate that there isn't an actual off‑season now.   Because I do enjoy, you know, getting to travel a little bit or actually spend time at home, or even just go play golf at different places.   The last two years, I've spent the week before the Playoffs playing out on Long Island.   I actually enjoy playing golf outside of tournament golf.   
As far as preparation goes, I'm definitely doing a bit more right now and buckling down, getting ready for Augusta.   
   
 Q.   This has to do with your pal, Bubba.   Is it funny sometimes to think of Bubba as a father when he's such a big kid himself?   
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, it's weird to think someone that is‑‑ he's maybe going like 13, 14, somewhere up there (laughter) to have a kid.   
No, he's an awesome dad.   Being around him, seeing him with Caleb and Dakota, he loves it.   They both love being around their dad.   It's been pretty special to see him over the past few years kind of change and turn into the man he is now.   I feel like it's helped him.   Obviously he's had a lot of success since they have had Caleb and the family.   It's pretty special to see what they have been able to do for two kids' lives.  
   
 Q.   And how would you describe Bubba's parenting style?   
RICKIE FOWLER:   I would say it's fun.   I mean, I enjoy being around.   With him being kind of a big kid himself, he's able to have a lot of fun with the kids, from playing around outside to messing around in the game room and stuff at the house.   He definitely enjoys it.   
   
 Q.   Speaking of getting into somebody's wallet, you play a lot with Michael Jordan over at The Bear's Club and there's a report that came out yesterday, I don't know how credible it is, that he's so frustrated with the slow play at Bear's Club and he's talking about building his own golf course.   Do you know anything about that?   
RICKIE FOWLER:   I know there have been stuff mentioned but as far as how serious, I don't know.   Obviously it's something I cherish as far as the times we get to play, and now it's just like I'll text him if he's in town and set up games.   He loves playing and we have a good time doing it.   To be able to call MJ a friend and to go tee it up with him on a daily basis when ear home, it's a lot of fun.   
Yeah, getting in his wallet, that's success right there (laughter).   But unfortunately the past couple times he's taken care of business with me.   
   
 Q.   Have you seen that frustration on slow play?   Is that something that's a fact?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   When we've played out there, a lot of times it's during the week and typically there's not a whole lot of play.   Obviously this time of year, February and March, I feel like it's the busiest time.   
Obviously some great weather down here in South Florida and people are taking advantage of it.   Come Friday, Saturday, Sunday, there might be a few more people out there on the course.   But during the week, typically when we've played, that's usually the time I'm home in between tournaments.   Yeah, we fly around pretty quick.   
   
 Q.   At Augusta, you played some matches with Phil during the practice rounds.   How much has that helped you, and if you're on a different team, will he still help you?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, we are all helping each other out there in the match.   It's still a practice round, but we are trying to beat each other's brains in, whichever the teams are.   I've played with Phil a lot and against him.   The past year and a half, probably 90 percent of the time I've been on Phil's team.   
But he's very helpful as far as with me and any other guys that are playing, especially around a place like Augusta.   He probably knows the most about that golf course more than anyone, as far as when you look at his yardage book to the notes he has.   It's pretty extensive.   It's not just in there.   He keeps a lot scored between the years and he's pretty knowledgeable about that place.   
   
 Q.   Could you talk about your preparation for this tournament?   I know the Champions Course, 14 green has moved, what specifically have you worked on since you've been back home here?   
RICKIE FOWLER:   I wouldn't say anything specific just for the course.   I got some good work in with Butch last Wednesday and Thursday, and just working, getting the swing back in the right positions.   
Played the course here on Sunday, but with the fairways not being overseeded, the course looks great, the fairways are starting to, won't get any mud balls, hopefully, like we have in the past.   So excited about that.   
The course is in great shape.   Rough is thick, greens are good, so it's going to be a good test of golf.   Hopefully we can stay away from some of the rain.   That would kind of be a downer on the week.   
But it's always a good test here.   It's a tough course and you've got to ball strike your way around here.   
   
 Q.   When you look at some of the injuries Tiger has had, are there any lessons that you can draw from that as you try to avoid some similar physical issues later in your career, or when it comes to your training methods, your swing, is it hard to think that far ahead at your age?   
RICKIE FOWLER:   I've already dealt with a low back thing and through the last half, 2012 into 2013, obviously injuries happen in every sport.   There's a lot of stress that's put on our bodies when you're swinging at it the way we do.   
So as far as workouts go and prevention and making sure you're getting the right therapy and stuff, that's key to staying out here as long as possible.     
But the other thing is, the time management and managing the tournaments that you play, how much you play and how much travel there is, because yeah, pushing yourself too hard in the gym and traveling too much and trying to play too often, too many tournaments, it can wear you down and have an effect on how long your career can be.   
AMANDA HERRINGTON:   Thank you, Rickie.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT