WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
January 28, 2015
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: We welcome Rickie Fowler to the media center here.  Your first start of 2015, and you've had some past success on this golf course finishing second in 2010.  Start off by telling us what it's like to be here this week and we will open it up for questions.   RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, definitely excited to be back.  I have had a lot of success in Arizona, Scottsdale area specifically, won some junior tournaments here and went on to playing well in this tournament, one of my first PGA TOUR events losing in the playoff at the Frys.  Looking to pull on the good play I've had here. Unfortunately last year missed the cut.  I need to redeem myself, get off to a great start.  Always great energy here.  The Thunderbirds do a great job.  It's been fun getting all the guys there, helping them with their fundraising efforts, done an amazing job and with Waste Management stepping up and doing another 10 years. I'm excited about the future here and to see if we can get it started off nicely this week to get my U.S. debut for the year.   Q.  What do you make of the course changes, particularly the large bunker on 18?  RICKIE FOWLER: I mean, the bunker on 18 I feel hasn't changed a whole lot except for the church pews.  Doesn't change my play of the hole.  For some of the bombers it may change a little bit.  I still feel they will be able to take it over the bunker.  I'm not sure if that will play into too much of a factor there. As far as the overall changes, I like the looks of it.  Looks like a little bit more demanding of a good tee ball, position the ball in the fairway.  I'm excited about everything.  Looks good.  Everything is pretty consistent as far as condition. Usually first year out with redos and some greens being not as changed as others, the conditions seem to be fairly consistent throughout the whole course.  That's nice.   Q.  Just your thoughts on how much fun you had playing the Waste Management pro-am.  RICKIE FOWLER: Today was great.  I feel like they have always done a great job as far as getting fun people involved, whether it's business leaders to the celebrities and athletes that come out, as well.  I had a fun guy, couple guys involved with Waste Management, Emmet Smith who has had a decent career of his own, one of the greatest running backs of all time.  We had a good time out there.  It was fun to play golf with the guys and bring them into my domain.   Q.  From a golfer's perspective, how different does this week feel for you, you know, given that the Super Bowl is in town and the added attraction of Tiger playing?  RICKIE FOWLER: Well, Tiger always adds a little bit.  I feel like we will get the full feel of it this weekend.  Unfortunately, the weather forecast doesn't look great, so that may have a bit of an impact. But it is a big week here in Phoenix and Scottsdale.  Obviously with the Super Bowl being around, seems like the tournament is, I guess, second looked at.  When you look at TV, it's all about the Super Bowl, and there happens to be a golf tournament going on. Hopefully we will be able to make some noise before the Super Bowl goes on.  Obviously a great field here this year.  Looking forward to the next two days playing with Hunter and Phil, two good buddies of mine, Hunter beating me out here my rookie year. Phil and I have actually played quite a few times in the same group here.  Looking forward to that.  Nice to see Tiger pull the trigger and start his season here.  I know he hasn't been here in a while, and it sounds like he's excited to get things going.   Q.  Can you say a little bit more about the greens?  Do they play like new greens or are they holding?  RICKIE FOWLER: As far as the greens, I mean, typically here the greens firm up on the weekend, firm and fast.  Don't really want to be playing out of the rough.  They are tough to hold.  I feel like if anything, they may be playing a little bit firmer than they have been in the past. I mean, they are new greens, but like I said, they are very consistent.  I'm definitely happy with the changes and how the condition of the course is. I enjoy playing on firm greens just because it kind of requires you to hit good golf shots.  You can't really fake it around the golf course.  You have to be playing from the short grass and be in control of the approach shots and hitting your numbers.   Q.  If the Olympic team was chosen today you'd be on it.  You already have to follow Presidents Cup list, FedEx Cup list.  Where does the Olympic rankings fall on your radar?  RICKIE FOWLER: Well, I haven't made  a Presidents Cup team.  That's kind of a goal off in the distance right now.  As far as making an Olympic team, you know, it's a new thing for golf obviously being the first time in there.  For me, it would be a dream come true really I haven't ever dreamt of as far as -- you always watch the Olympics, and you look at the opening ceremonies and closing ceremonies and being around the best athletes in the world in their respective sports. I think that would be one of the coolest experiences, let alone getting to play golf in the Olympics and having a chance to earn a medal for your country. So, yeah, like I said, yeah, it's a dream come true that you haven't dreamt of because golf was never in it.  So to have the opportunity as of right now, you said I'd be on the team.  Yeah, that would be awesome, getting to represent my country in the Walker Cup as an amateur and the Ryder Cup the past, 2010, 2014.  It's special when you get to do that, and obviously the Olympics, it's a pretty big stage.   Q.  As you said, you know Phil well.  He's at the age where a lot of people think he can't win out here.  What makes you think he has maybe some victories and a Major at the age of 44?  RICKIE FOWLER: He's over the hill, but he's got plenty of fight left in him, that's for sure.  (smiling).   I have enjoyed getting to know him.  Kind of like a big brother out here. I think there was a past interview or some sort that I referred to him as a dad figure of some sort.  That didn't settle too well.  I don't think he liked that one much.  He's definitely taken some younger guys under his wing. It's been a lot of fun to play practice rounds together, play Tuesday games.  Played with him in San Diego a bit and played with him during the offseason a few times. Don't worry, he's still good enough to win out here, that's for sure.  He's not going away any time soon.   Q.  When we talk about all these young players in the game now, they are a little bit younger than you.  Should we include you sort of in that quote, unquote, young group, or do you feel you have been out here, that you're more included in the veteran group?  RICKIE FOWLER: This is my seventh Phoenix Open, so do the math.  I don't know if that's considered to be a vet yet or if I'm still young.  I guess I'm kind of in the middle. Yeah, last year and this year I have had a couple groups where I have been the oldest player.  Maybe that's veteran territory.  I don't know.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT