ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 15, 2015
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How did it feel for you?   
RICKIE FOWLER:   Off to a nice start.   I was a little shaky this morning.   Haven't obviously played in quite some time.   Only played two events since The Ryder Cup.   Nice to get things off to a consistent start and throw some birdies in there.   
Unfortunately made bogey at the last, but made some good swings coming down the stretch and definitely pleased with the start.  
   
 Q.   You like playing over here on The European Tour.   A lot of Americans don't travel a lot, but it's nice to see you over in these parts.   Are you enjoying yourself?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   I am enjoying myself.   I haven't actually been able to play too many times on The European Tour but I have played well, being that the last one we played during the summer before The Open was the Scottish.   Obviously being over in China playing the HSBC there, as well.   
Excited to be the first trip to the Middle East and get off to a good, solid round today and excited for the week.  
   
 Q.   You go head‑to‑head a lot, yourself and Rory McIlroy; is he starting to annoy you?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   I can't get rid of him, that's the hard part.   I keep getting paired with him.   Had some groups with him on the weekend, which is obviously a good thing.   Best player in the world, so if I'm hanging around him a little bit, I'm doing the right things.  
Both off to good, solid start today.   It was nice to see him throw in a few birdies and kind of get things going on the back nine today.   So excited for tomorrow and hopefully we can keep it going and have some fun this weekend.   
  
It was a great start, especially the first six or so holes, I was a little shaky.   Obviously made some pars to start the round, but didn't quite feel comfortable out there.   It was nice to kind of settle in, make some birdies, turn at two, and then get some going on the back nine.   U.  
Unfortunately made bogey at the last.   I made a really good swing and didn't exactly hit my number there.   So all in all, excited to be over here, for one.   Off to a great start.   Looking forward to the rest of the week.  
   
 Q.   And whatever the first impressions of the golf course, to actually play competitively, often it's a little different but I guess it's rewarding to start like that.   
RICKIE FOWLER:   It is.   To start making memories over here and start with a smooth 67, can't ask for a whole lot more.   
   
 Q.   You're not really conscious of leaderboards particularly, but when you sit back today, you'll be aware of a lovely position to start the week?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, the biggest thing Thursday, Friday, is obviously getting off to a good start, putting yourself in a good position for the weekend.   Yeah, really trying not to move backwards, and move forwards, get ready to go for Saturday, and obviously be ready to put ourselves in a position to have a chance to win this golf tournament on Sunday.  
   
 Q.   Have you had a chance to look at a few things now that you've been here for a couple of days?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   Not yet.   We've been pretty busy so far, obviously getting in Monday night, photo call Tuesday morning, practice in the afternoon, Pro‑Am yesterday.   I have this afternoon to get a little bit of free time and a little bit of free time this weekend.   So looking forward to seeing a little bit of Abu Dhabi and enjoying the time here, while just here for the week, and excited for a chance to come back.   
   
 Q.   Always difficult to know how you're going to play at the start of the season.   You must be delighted with that.   
RICKIE FOWLER:   I'm definitely happy with the round.   I was a little shaky this morning getting off to the start‑‑ made some good pars but didn't quite feel comfortable out there until I made a couple birdies to turn and get things going on the back nine.   
Yeah, excited to be over here, great to start the year in Abu Dhabi and see if we can keep it going and put ourselves in good position for did you know say.  
   
 Q.   You theoretically have a disadvantage in playing against players who have played here a lot before.   Do you feel that way yourself or are you comfortable here?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   I'm comfortable.   I think a lot comes from the round today to build some confidence moving forward.   Really just making my own memories starting now, we've made some good ones, not a whole lot of bad things to look back on.   Made some good swings today, especially coming in and excited for the week.  
   
 Q.   You have a growing rivalry, it would seem with Rory.   Is that something you enjoy and do you see that being a lifetime competition?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   Definitely I enjoy.   We have a good time out on the golf course, and obviously being able to go back and forth and play against each other, whether it's in the same group or seeing each other's names on the board, it's good fun.   
We got to see quite a bit of that last year, and hopefully there's a lot more to come this year.   It's going to be a long career, battling against each other, but I'm sure we're going to have a good time with it.  
   
 Q.   Who has the edge at the moment?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   
   
 Q.   I think he's got the edge at the moment?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   He's got the edge.   Obviously being No. 1 player in the world, two majors last year.   I guess not off to the hottest of starts for my career, only two worldwide wins, one on the PGA Tour.   I'd like to start adding to that and make myself a little bit more of a prominent player.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT