TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 13, 2014
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Rickie, started off five back.   Now you're three back.   They're still playing.   Can you talk about where you are right now going into tomorrow?
RICKIE FOWLER:   In a great position.   You know, really all you can ask for going into the week and looking at the tournament is to be in a position to win on Sunday. 
Obviously it depends on what they do coming in.   I know they got a couple holes left.   You know, Billy was playing well early.   I know Rory is making a little bit of a move out there.   But I'll be out there in front of them tomorrow and be able to see if we can get off to a good solid start and maybe show them we're ready to go play.   The tournament is really going to start tomorrow on the back nine.

Q.   Being where you are on the points list, did you have an idea of the scenarios that needed to fall into place for you to win the FedExCup?
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah.   I know pretty much most of the scenarios for me.   I know if I win I got a pretty good chance.   I know there's some possibilities of some extracurricular activities if certain things line up properly. 
So I'm looking forward to tomorrow.   Obviously all I can do is go play the best I can, make sure I commit to every shot, get the best out of the round that I can, not leave anything out there and see where that puts us after 18 tomorrow.

Q.   Where did getting a win rank on your goals for this season?
RICKIE FOWLER:   I mean, getting a win this year was among my three or four main goals that I set for the year.
The goals were to be ready‑‑ one was to be ready for Augusta and to contend in all four majors.   Did that. 
One was to make it here to the TOUR Championship.   The other was be on the Ryder Cup team.   And so just haven't checked one off. 
Three out of four is pretty good.   If we can somehow sneak four out of four, it would be an awesome year.

Q.   When you look at your record in majors this year, obviously a phenomenal record.   Take the U.S. Open out of it because Mark was kind of running away with it.   Which one do you think you would have been closest?
RICKIE FOWLER:   PGA hands down.   The first three, I mean Augusta it was going to be a bit of an outside shot.   I still wasn't 100 percent comfortable in the situation as far as being kind of in the major in contention.   I could still feel a little bit of‑‑ obviously it was early with swing stuff and being in that spot wasn't as comfortable as I was at the PGA.   U.S. Open I felt great, obviously too far back.
And then Rory played great on Sunday, drove the ball very well and made it tough to catch him. 
PGA, I was in a great position.   I really felt like I could win the golf tournament.   I felt like I was very in control of my golf game, and then unfortunately just didn't get the ball close enough on the back nine there to make any birdies.

Q.   You left a few putts out there today.   Do you think you could have gotten a little bit more out of your round?
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah.   I could say that about all three days this week.   I'm starting to see the greens a lot better.   I think the biggest thing was coming from not playing on Bermuda for a while and then having to come here and adjust and back to seeing grain and different lines. 
So I'm starting to see that a lot better.   I saw my lines really good today.   I felt like I hit a lot of good putts and some of them just didn't go in.   But for the most part, I felt like I was getting my reads right.   So maybe tomorrow more will click and we'll get some more to drop.

Q.   You and Butch talked about before you went out there, trying to start something on the par‑3s.   You played well on the par‑3s today. 
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah.   Some of that was, you know, typically the guys that win here or play well here have a good par‑3 performance week.   That being because there's not very many par‑5s.   You're playing two a day.   The par‑3s have a little bit more of an impact on your score and if you're able to play those well, you can jump past a lot of guys in the way.   So par‑3s are very important this week, and it's nice to take care of those.   I had a chance to make the two on the last which would have been four 2s on the card which doesn't happen very often.

Q.   How aware of that were you before Butch mentioned it?
RICKIE FOWLER:   I've always known that par‑3 scoring is big because it's tough to play the par‑3s under par, but I hadn't really looked at it that way too much here.
I just happened to have some really good numbers today on the par‑3s, made some good swings, made some good putts on top of that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT