TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 12, 2014
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Three banked three to play, couple rounds to play, can you talk about your chances?
RICKIE FOWLER:   I like where I'm at.   I wish I could have gotten a couple coming in.   I had really good luck on 17.   I seem to be misreading the greens out here this week.   Did a little better today.   Made a couple out of the gate. 
But no, I like where I'm at.   Obviously some of the leaders have a few holes to play, could make a couple more coming in.   But haven't gotten everything out of the rounds, first few days, so definitely room for improvement and we can get some more this weekend.

Q.   Playing this year, do you put any pressure on yourself to finish with a win?
RICKIE FOWLER:   Not necessarily.   It will be we've put together a very good year.   It would be icing on top of the cake.   And it would be nice to do that.   I feel very good here this week.   It's been a long stretch.   So through the playoffs really starting to feel the four weeks in a row. 
And trying to give it our all and like off to a good start, and we haven't had the best the first two days.   I'm looking forward to improving on the first two rounds and playing well this weekend.

Q.   Hate to spin it beyond this week, but you've got the matches coming up.   Has to be encouraging to be playing and seeing some putts go in heading over to Scotland. 
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, it's been very good since June really.   And I'm looking forward to a week off.   Can't lie about that.   I'm excited about getting home, spending a little bit of time there and relaxing and then getting ready to go overseas and put some points up on the board.

Q.   Do you think you'll have any trouble ramping yourself back up after that week off, go over there for that?
RICKIE FOWLER:   It's the Ryder Cup, definitely not.

Q.   The way the course has been playing, do you think the real low score over the weekend?
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, I haven't gotten everything out of the round first couple of days.   Rory shot 65 today.   There's definitely a sub 65‑round out there.   Just got to be driving the the ball well, hit a lot of greens. 
There's a 62 or 63 out there, for sure, but you gotta go out and get it. 

Q.   When a player says something to the media that's later taken out of context or blown out of proportion‑‑
RICKIE FOWLER:   Talking about Rory? 

Q.   Yes, I am.   Do you think there's a reaction from that player that makes them less likely to be as forthcoming in the future and maybe makes things more boring on all ends, do you think that's the thing?
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, it definitely can have that impact.   I know exactly what Rory said and how it was taken and everything that he said, and that little bit was taken.   We all know Tiger and Phil aren't young little pups anymore.   And it was all just kind of taken out of context and the whole story that Rory was telling was right on point. 
I mean, they're getting older.   It's not like you can play out here and compete once you're over 50 for very long.   So it's just unfortunate that some stuff is taken out of context and that it can make you a little hesitant about what you say up here sometimes.
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT