THE RYDER CUP
September 24, 2014
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MICHAEL GIBBONS: Rickie, welcome, thanks for joining us.  Delighted to welcome the man with the most talked-about hair in the world at the moment.   RICKIE FOWLER: Something like that, yeah.  It's gone a bit crazier than I expected.  Just thought I would do it for a little team spirit and knew the guys on the team would like it, and it's been fun to see the reaction of the fans and people, social media, guys on the European squad and caddies over there, as well.  It's been pretty fun.   MICHAEL GIBBONS: That's what the Ryder Cup is all about, isn't it.   RICKIE FOWLER: It's all about showing spirit for country, or guys on The European Team, I know everyone's proud to be a part of either team.  I think obviously shown we are proud to be over here, proud to be part of the United States Team, and this is just a different way of showing it.   MICHAEL GIBBONS: Excellent.  Just talk a little bit about the team and how they are bonding, and then we'll go into some questions.   RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, it's been fun to get to know some of the guys a bit better on the U.S. Team.  I think some of the guys look at maybe some of the younger guys, Patrick and Jordan, for some of the older guys to get to know and getting everyone together. I actually played a lot of Junior Golf with Patrick, so I know him quite well.  And Jordan has been out here for a few years, and he's no stranger to the big scene. Team's great.  We're having a lot of good fun, enjoying all the time in the team room, and ping-pong and practise rounds together.  So I'm looking forward to the rest of the week and spending some time with the guys, and just looking forward to getting the matches going.   Q.  That's twice already you've mentioned the word "spirit."  It's something that's been labeled against the American Team over maybe the last decade, that you don't care enough, you're not into it enough.  Do you represent a new breed of American player, are the young guys into it now and do you refute the suggestion that the old guys don't care about it anymore?  RICKIE FOWLER: Everybody's been into it.  Unfortunately, over the past eight or so Ryder Cups, we've been on the wrong side of the momentum.  So with Europe winning quite a bit more than we have, it's been easier for them.  I feel like they've come together and they're enjoying the ride of that momentum. I think it's been tough for some of the guys that have been a part of the losing Ryder Cup teams.  You've got some guys coming in that haven't played as many, some guys that are new to The Ryder Cup team.  And you know, they haven't seen the bad side of The Ryder Cup. So it's tough because one team wins, one team loses.  We've got a team that's very refreshed and new.  We've got a couple guys that have played quite a few.  But they are motivated to jump on and get this thing turned around.  I know we'd love to take the Cup back home.  But Europe's definitely not going to lay down, nor should they.  It's going to be a fun week and it's going to be a great match.   Q.  I never thought I would ask this in a press conference, but going back to your haircut, I was just wondering, a lot of people have been talking to me asking me if I've seen your haircut.  Wondering if you can do a ceremonial unveiling of the haircut here at Gleneagles and take the cap off and let us see it for a second.  RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah (removing cap and turning for cameras).  It's starting to grow in a little bit.   MICHAEL GIBBONS: Any plans to maintain that?   RICKIE FOWLER: We'll see if we need to.  I can't see it.  It's back there, so I'm not sure what it looks like.  I have to check it.  I can't even see it in a mirror.  You can't look back this way.  I have to have somebody maybe take a picture and check on it. Like I said earlier, I didn't really expect for it to take off as much as it has.  I know I've seen pictures of people back home getting a similar haircut.  I've seen a few pictures a couple people posted on Instagram.  I saw one guy that got an "EU" on the side of his head. So it works both ways, for Europe or the U.S., but it's just cool to see a lot of people coming together and kind of jumping on with the support of the U.S. Team.  And then like I said, it goes both ways with some people doing it with Europe.   Q.  Not a Ryder Cup-related question, unfortunately.  Rory McIlroy this week announced that he would be the tournament host for The Irish Open at Royal County Down next year, and was going to try to persuade some of the Walker Cup Team to come back there.  Can you relive your experience of the Walker Cup, and can you be persuaded to come to Northern Ireland next year?  RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, I've actually known that Rory was going to announce it, and we've already talked about it.  I'm really trying to work that into the schedule.  Royal County Down is probably my favourite golf course in the world.  Some of that is due to the 2007 Walker Cup, coming over with a great team.  GB&I and a great team, as well.  We had to play well to win. But it's a special place and I definitely would love to go back and have a chance to play there next year.  I know, like Rory said, he's working on trying to get some of the guys from the Walker Cup Team and some of the top players to come play. You know, Rory and I, we've definitely gotten to know each other a lot better over the past few years on Tour, and looking forward to playing against each other for a long time.  If we can kind of help each other out here and there, and also keep the final round pairings Sundays in some of those times where we are playing against each other on Sundays, if we can keep all that going, I think we can do a lot of good with it.   Q.  Your second Ryder Cup, the last one being 2010, what are kind of the differences for you being a Ryder Cup rookie, and then here with kind of that experience under your belt, anything different this time around?  RICKIE FOWLER: I guess in a way, I'm not walking around with big eyes looking at everything, all the signs.  I'm not surprised by anything.  I feel more comfortable here, especially with the way I've played this year, earning my way on the team.  I think I finished second on the points list versus having to get a last-minute pick in 2010. It's been quite a bit different.  I've known I'm going to be on the team for almost three months now.  I've been able to sit back and play golf and not have to worry about this.  Whereas 2010, it was pretty stressful through the summer and waiting on the picks.  But yeah, being here, 2010, was a little bit more nerve-wracking.  It wasn't as comfortable. And then being here this week, feel great around the guys that we have on the team, and definitely more comfortable in the position that I'm in and being here ready to play this week.   Q.  Phil Mickelson has been in early on today and has ventured the opinion that the problems between Graeme McDowell and Rory McIlroy's agents could affect the European side.  Do you agree with his thoughts on it, or do you have any particular opinions of your own about the problem between the player's agents -- not the players themselves, but their agents, I believe it is.  RICKIE FOWLER: I don't see it affecting them.  Obviously Rory has been playing decent this summer.  They will find a way to get on just fine.  Once you're on the golf course, it seems like any kind of problems or anything like that kind of go out the window. When it comes to The Ryder Cup, you find a way to get 12 guys together and go give it your best shot to win.  I don't see any reason that we look at that as a weak link.  They are going to be tough to beat no matter what.  So I think they will be just fine.   Q.  Actually Phil's exact quote was, "Not only do you guys get along really well, but you don't litigate against each other."  Is that just Phil being Phil?  RICKIE FOWLER: Phil's always Phil (smiling).  That's why we love him.  He's a lot of fun to be around, and we hear a lot of those one-liners in practise rounds in Tuesday games.  So it's nothing new to me.   Q.  Speaking of which, you were out on the course with him today.  How did he look?  RICKIE FOWLER: He's a gamer.  He finds a way to rise to the occasion, whether it's a match on a Tuesday or today being a Wednesday, the games that we have, you can never count him out of a hole or out of a match.  You never know what he's capable of.  That's what's made him a great player and someone that is going to be mentioned down the road with some of the best in the game.   Q.  You said that Rory's played decent this year.  Do you look at what he's done, and are you inspired by that and think, yeah, I'm not far away from doing the same?  And also, do you think that you two, quite young guys, do you think you could form one of the great golf rivalries in years to come?  RICKIE FOWLER: There's definitely the possibility of him and I being able to create something and play against each other for a long time.  Although you look down the list and there's a lot of good, young players right now, too. Obviously the game is in a good position with the great young players, and you know, the year that Rory has put together, it's quite impressive, especially when you look at winning The Open over here, going over and winning Akron and then winning the PGA.  Three in a row is pretty good.  A lot of times, you're excited about making three birdies in a row -- I know a lot of you guys would be (laughter). So to win three events in a row, let alone two majors and a World Golf Championships, he's obviously shown before that he was one of the best players in the world and now he made it to No. 1, fell off, and I think he's enjoying being No. 1 a little bit more right now with the way he's played, and deservedly so.  He's been the best player in the world definitely this summer.  And I'm looking forward to getting some wins of my own and see if I can chase him down a bit. You know, we have 20, 25 years to go back and forth against each other.  It's going to be fun.   Q.  The haircut has got accusations of brashness, et cetera, against it, but how would you describe yourself as a personality?  RICKIE FOWLER: I'm just myself.  I'm not trying to be anyone else.  I'm not trying to fit in any particular way.  It's just, like I said, it's me being me.  I'm not trying to hurt anyone's feelings or turn anyone the wrong way.  Just proud to be from the USA and be over here playing The Ryder Cup Team. If people take it the wrong way, it's too bad for them.  It's unfortunate.  You've got to show some patriotism and spirit for your country.  Like I say, I'm excited and it's going to be a fun week.   Q.  There's been people that have said that people might lead this team because of all The Ryder Cups and Presidents Cups that he's played in.  But what about the idea of the 20-somethings, like yourself and Patrick and Spieth, who are fearless and don't have the experience of losing these things, what about the notion that maybe you guys are going to lead this team?  RICKIE FOWLER: I think it can go both ways.  I think leading up to the event, we can look up to Phil and Furyk, guys that have played quite a few Ryder Cups now, as well as our captain and vice captains.  I think we can look to them as far as insight goes and advice and getting ready for the matches. Once the week is going, there's a chance that, yeah, if the young guys play well, we can help build some momentum and build some confidence for the team and help some of the older guys, Furyk and Phil, get them fired up a little bit more.  There is the chance the young guys could fire the team up a bit and carry them through the week, but won't know until we get going. But Phil has definitely been great to have in the team room.  He's not afraid to speak up and talk to different guys and try and help out in any way he can.   Q.  Is there anything you can say to guys like Jordan, guys like Patrick, that are here for their first time?  Obviously you've got team captains and you've got guys like Phil, but maybe somebody closer in age or experience level.  Have you been able to offer them advice or do you feel that's your role?  RICKIE FOWLER: I haven't talked to them too much.  I haven't been in the same practise round groups as them.  I will obviously over the next couple days be around them quite a bit.  As a team we'll talk about different things. But Jordan I don't think really needs much.  He's played on the Presidents Cup team, one of the best players in the world and had a lot of success and he's very consistent. Patrick, him and I played a lot of Junior Golf together.  He's probably one of the most excited to be over here.  I think he won't have any troubles as far as going out there and being ready to play.  I think some of the advice that we can give him, he's taken it in, and you know, I don't think there's a whole lot I can do as far as -- some of it, you want to be in the position and learn a little bit.  But there will be a few things I'll pass down if I can and try and help them out any way I can.   Q.  Normally you are really multi-coloured player on Tour by your outfit.  What is your opinion about the outfit this year?  RICKIE FOWLER: Team outfits look pretty good.  Got a lot of navy going on, a lot of red, white and blue.  It's special being able to wear the red, white and blue and represent our country. So I know there's been some interesting outfits in the past.  Some that I may be glad that I didn't have to wear (laughter), but, no, I'm actually excited about the gear that we have this week and some of the outfits we'll be wearing.  It's good stuff.   Q.  The way that Europe has won the last two Ryder Cups, so naturally, so dramatically, do you feel that's inevitably taken a psychological toll on the U.S. Team, or can you actually use it to motivate you going into this match?  RICKIE FOWLER: I guess it depends how you look at it, the way you put it.  You can look at it as, too, that in a way, you could be like, oh, they stole is it from us and we should have had those and you can be down about it.  Or you can look at it, try to take more of the positive, one or two more points here or there and we have the Cup. Obviously they have been very close and they have been fun to watch.  I was able to watch quite a bit in 2012, and then obviously being there in 2010.  They have been close.  So really you can look at it, and they can go either way. All we've got to do is take care of business and maybe it's that one or two points, and we get the Cup this time.   Q.  You've just spoken about closeness, you were close when Martin won this year and you were close to Rory at Liverpool, close at the PGA.  Would victory this week represent some form of pay back?  RICKIE FOWLER: I mean, it would cap off a great year for me.  My goals going into the year, the main one was to be in contention at the majors and did that.  To win was another, and that was really the only goal on my list that I wasn't able to take care of this year. The PGA was probably the one that I felt like I had most of a chance and control of winning.  So, yeah, it would be nice to take the Cup back to the States this week.  It would -- I guess a little bit of redemption in a way.  I know a lot of the guys have talked about redeeming after 2012 and the loss there, and like I said, it would cap off a great year for me.   Q.  Yesterday Tom Watson talked about how if you got a big dog that could be targeted, it would be Bubba.  And when Bubba was asked, he was sort of self-defecating and sluffed off the remark.  Knowing him as you do, how do you think he would respond to what seems like a huge compliment by Watson and do you think that's a role he would relish secretly?  RICKIE FOWLER: Well, whether Bubba says it or not, Bubba loves compliments (laughter).  Any compliment he can get, he's going to take it. So I'm sure secretly he loved that.  You know, there's a lot of positions where if I had to put someone in a spot where you had to hit a shot or find a way to get something done, Bubba is one of those guys I would look to. You look at No. 10 in the playoff to win his first Masters; obviously it's a position where typically only a lefty can pull off that shot.  But if you flip it around for a righty, there's not many guys that can do that, either. Two guys on the team, Phil and Bubba, they are shot-makers and somehow they find a way to get things done.  Yeah, I'll relay it onto Bubba and give him the compliment and I'm sure he'll like it.   MICHAEL GIBBONS: Rickie, many thanks for joining us.  Good luck this week.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT