DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 31, 2014
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Six birdies of the day.  Let's talk about your day.RICKIE FOWLER: I was able to kind of hang in there and fight a bit.  I made some good swings early.  I made a couple awkward swings with driver and lost quite a ways right.  So it was a little interesting in the middle. I was able to finish off strong.  Got a few things figured out.  It was nice to kind of battle through that.  With the way the round could have gone, like I said, it was nice to come in and at least give ourselves a shot for tomorrow.Q. We highlighted your drive on 18, 340-plus yards off the tee.  You've been working with Butch now quite a while.  Have you added distance off the tee to your game working with Butch?RICKIE FOWLER: I have.  I think everything is just working more efficiently, so getting a lot more out of the swing.  The driver I've been playing, probably the best driver I've played.  So kind of the combination with the driver and Butch.  And I'm healthy.  So everything is kind of working together. I didn't try to hit it that hard on 18.  I was trying to hit a softer one to keep it short of that stuff, where it narrows up.  And got lucky that it stayed in the fairway, because it can get pretty narrow up there.Q. (Inaudible.)RICKIE FOWLER: Sneaky.  When you saw that at the PGA in the long drive contest, Keegan was not very happy.Q. You have played so well this year, and you have yet to hold a championship trophy.  What do you think in your opinion that is the one minute thing that has kept you out of the winner's circle this year?RICKIE FOWLER: There's been a few times where I've been just a little too far back.  The only tournament where I've been in great position was the PGA.  And I really felt like I could win that tournament.  I just wasn't able to make some putts and get the ball close enough on the back nine. So really haven't been in great positions this year.  I've put myself in good positions for the back nine in the final rounds.  The U.S. Open and British Open I was too far back.  The guys were going to have to make a mistake, and I was going to have to make a run. See if we can post a low one tomorrow.  Keep playing well and whether I get a win or not this season, it's been great.  And obviously something to look forward to, maybe next year, we'll see if we can knock off a couple.Q. You've been playing the Ryder Cup since 2010.  This is your second time back.  Do you feel like you want to take more of a leadership role in the team room?RICKIE FOWLER: I feel like I'll kind of be one of the guys in the middle.  We have a few rookies, a couple guys younger than me.  And then you've got guys that have played quite a few Ryder Cups, Jim and Phil. I feel like maybe I can help get the team going a little bit.  I think the biggest thing is if we can get all 12 of us to come together as one and really have fun together, no matter who gets paired with who.  Obviously singles it's kinds of everyone out for themselves.  But really get everyone on the same page and firing on all cylinders, and see if we can get that cup back here in the States.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT