THE BARCLAYS
August 21, 2014
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Another golf tournament, looks like you're keeping it going. 
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, in a good position with the game.   Today's swing wasn't great but I was able to fight through it, make some good saves, make the turn, make some birdies.   Unfortunately I had to throw a couple bogeys in there but was able to finish it off nicely and started swinging a little bit better at the end.
So just stayed patient, really kind of how my whole year has been, staying patient, especially with the start I was off to this year and getting ready for the majors.   So really trying to go through the same process and thought process here as I have been and take it like we're trying to play like I am at a major.   Seems like that's where I play best and be nice to keep that going.

Q.   How do you gear up for four in a row?   Do you try not to think about it or do you have to pace yourself? 
RICKIE FOWLER:   You've got to pace yourself a little bit because I mean, I'm in a good position to play decent and I'll be at East Lake.   Obviously that's where you want to end up to have a chance to win the FedExCup. 
But at the same time, the better you can play through the first three, the better position you do put yourself in.   It's a little bit of a balancing act.   You don't want to come out too hot early but a win at one of the first three could do a lot of good.   So we'll see; if I can get things going this week and make things a little bit easier on myself the next couple.

Q.   How challenging is the rough out there?
RICKIE FOWLER:   No, it's not your normal TOUR event rough.   It really just depends week‑to‑week.   Sometimes we don't have much and sometimes we do.   It's got a little bit more of a major championship feel to the rough.   A couple times where I was 140, 150 yards, you can't get it to the green.   It's definitely penal.
The more you miss it by, actually the better.   I was a foot off the first cut in the first fairway and just in the deep stuff and it was the worst lie I had all day versus some of the ones I might have missed 15 yards left of the fairway and I was all right.   So I guess if you're going to miss, miss by a lot or hit the fairway.

Q.   A Ryder Cup question, having played in one, can you compare the pressure to what it's like in a major?   Is it different?   Do you recall how it felt? 
RICKIE FOWLER:   It is different.   I think the biggest ones for me, that kind of set me up for The Ryder Cup‑‑ it wasn't any of the professional events I played.   It was the Walker Cup experience, being in the team atmosphere.   I think coming off and playing right out of college helped me, as well in 2010. 
So I'll still definitely be feeling the nerves this year, as well, but I'm looking forward to it and pulling from the past experiences in 2010 and the two Walker Cups I have played.   It's a bit different when you are playing for a few other guys on the team, captain and wearing the red, white and blue.

Q.   What impact do you think Tom Watson will have?   Do you know him very well? 
RICKIE FOWLER:   I've gotten to know him a little bit but as far as‑‑ he's a living legend of the game.   It will be cool to have him as a captain and it will be a lot cooler if we're able to bring the Cup back for him.

Q.   Given how thick the rough is, how many fairways do you think you need‑‑
RICKIE FOWLER:   Fairways, I would include first cut in the fairway because that's at least playable.   I think 10 out of 14 would be reasonable.   If you drive the ball really well here, you can probably get 12.   But yeah, if you're not hitting more than half the fairways, it's going to be a pretty long fight out there. 

Q.   If it doesn't rain again, how do you think it will be Sunday? 
RICKIE FOWLER:   It played pretty similar to the Pro‑Am yesterday.   Yeah, if we don't get anymore rain, it stays warm, the air will dictate how the course plays; I'm sure the greens will firm up a bit and maybe get a little bit quicker.   The course is in perfect shape now so they will have full control over it as long as the weather stays good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT