U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 13, 2019
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Before today the only competitive round you played here was back in 2012, is that correct?
RICKIE FOWLER: I played the AT&T twice, and I played the Callaway.  I can't remember what the exact name of the event was.  But I played three events here.  So I almost won, ended up losing to Mark Brooks.  I've played a handful of competitive rounds here.  Played well here.  Love this place.  Love the layout.  I don't think there's many people you'll find who don't like it here.
Q. Is that the first time you played here, or was there ever state tournaments up here?
RICKIE FOWLER: No, I had never played it prior to that.  We played close to here for some junior and high school events.  But I lived seven hours south.  This wasn't exactly a weekend getaway.
Q. Talk about the course setup.  What are your thoughts on the setup, and how did you find so much success today?
RICKIE FOWLER: The golf course was definitely gettable and scorable out there.  But it's also going -- show your weaknesses at the same time.  And a U.S. Open, you pick apart the weaknesses of guys when they aren't playing well and define which guys are playing well.
I don't think it's all about making sure that the best score happens to be even par, kind of let the golf course dictate that.  I thought today's setup was great.  Some good pin placements, nothing that was over the edge or anything like that.
I'm assuming the golf course is going to continue to firm up over the week and it's going to get tougher to control the golf ball, and you have to be a little bit more dialed in.  If you played well today, go out and shoot under par.  If you didn't drive it well and you were a little bit off, it was going to be tough to shoot par or even close to it.
Q. If somebody told you this morning you'd end up 5-under after the day, what would you have felt or thought about that?
RICKIE FOWLER: I definitely would have been happy.  Thursday is just about getting off to a good start.  You can't go win the golf tournament today, but you can take yourself out of it or put yourself in position where you're just trying to fight your way back.
If I would have known I was going to hit it that well, I would have wanted to go out and see -- put me in all the spots and give me a chance to putt and see if I could better it.
We made some good putts out there but also missed a lot of good looks.  It's nice when you shoot 66, and that's about as high as it was going to be.  So I'm really happy with where we're at and looking forward to see if we can keep it going.
Q. As a good wind player, would you rather the wind pick up a little bit, especially now that you're off to a good start?
RICKIE FOWLER: I'll take it any way.  I don't think it's really supposed to get more than 10 to 15 over the next few days.  This golf course is a bit more fun and shows its teeth with wind.
Today was a very scorable day.  Really didn't get much more than 5 to 7 miles an hour.  The setup is good.  The fairways, you get some tighter ones, you get some that are fairly generous.  Hopefully it will pick up from 10 to 15 at some point and start to show some teeth in the next few days.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT