WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 1, 2014
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Rickie, we chitchatted on the golf course, and you mentioned you weren't making anything, then drove home an eagle at 2 and really strong finish with birdies at 7 and 8. 
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, I just had to hang in there and be patient.   It was tough.   Starting on 10 playing the back nine, I hit some shots and had a lot of‑‑ I had probably four looks inside 10 feet that almost didn't hit the hole. 
I felt like I was having a struggle with the reeds and turned and finally had a couple sneak in the hole and got a little bit of momentum going.

Q.   That was such a bold stroke you had at the 7, straight uphill, a 20‑footer.   And that poured right into the heart for you. 
RICKIE FOWLER:   That was probably my best putt of the day as far as giving me confidence going into 8 to be able to make that putt. 
Actually finally hit one, and halfway there I knew it was either in the middle or I had misread it.   Because it was online and tracking.

Q.   And that escape at 8, that's stealing a birdie there after your drive. 
RICKIE FOWLER:   It was a steal, yeah.   The drive didn't go too much left of my line.   I was trying to keep it on the left side of the fairway, and the cart path is maybe five steps off the first cut. 
Got a forward hop and ended up having a pretty clear shot at the green.   So I had to keep it under the trees.

Q.   Looking at your body language, you're such a confident player out there.   Your career hit a plateau maybe for a couple of years.   How do you get confidence without playing well, because you can't play well without confidence?   How did you rebuild your golf game to get that confident swagger back? 
RICKIE FOWLER:   Butch has definitely had a big influence on getting me back and get moving in the right direction.   It was tough earlier in the year missing some cuts and getting things going, but having him on my side and really getting everything together and really getting everyone to want to make that next step and help me get to the position where I can be one of the top players in the world. 
So it's been a fun couple of months of playing well and kind of heading in the right direction.   Still a lot I can work on and get better at.   Awfully good start. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT