WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
July 31, 2014
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Rickie, talk about the round today, first of all. 
RICKIE FOWLER:   It was fairly solid.   Definitely was seeing my putts pretty well today.   I was able to save some shots that way.   Made a couple of good putts‑‑ one good putt for bogey on the back nine to kind of hang around and give myself a chance to finish out strong. 
Just need to tighten it up a little bit for tomorrow and into the weekend.   I'm playing with a lot of confidence and excited for the weekend here and getting ready to move on to a good stretch of golf. 

Q.   How important is this event in preparation for the PGA? 
RICKIE FOWLER:   This is probably one of the best courses we play throughout the year.   It's tough as golf goes on a regular basis.   It can play long.   Right now when it was warm it plays a little shorter.   Greens are soft.   You've got to drive the ball well to give yourself a chance to get the ball close out of the fairway. 
So it puts some pressure on all parts of your game.   So it's a very, very good test.

Q.   Last question I've got concerns Dustin Johnson.   Did you hear about today the unfortunate circumstances?   Any comments or thoughts about Dustin right now? 
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, Dustin is one of my best friends out here.   We've played a lot of amateur golf together prior to being out here on the tour and stuff.   I'm just hoping for all the best for him. 
I haven't been in touch with him.   So hopefully, he can get everything straightened out.   We'll miss him out here but hopefully get him back soon.

Q.   Did this come as a shock to you when you heard this news? 
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, it did.   Just found out after the round.   I knew he withdrew this week, but definitely shocked.

Q.   The PGA of America confirmed he's going to be out of the Ryder Cup.   Can you talk about what kind of loss that's going to be at Gleneagles? 
RICKIE FOWLER:   He's definitely a guy you want on the team.   He's a powerful, powerful guy.   He's someone that guys don't look past as far as one of the best players out here. 
So definitely a loss to the team, but just hope for the best for him.   It won't be the last Ryder Cup for him. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT