THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2014
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MIKE WOODCOCK: We're delighted to welcome Rickie Fowler, the runner-up in the 2014 Open Championship, to the interview room. Rickie, you played fantastic all week, and that was a great run today particularly on the back nine.  How happy are you with your performance?   RICKIE FOWLER: Two words to sum it up, Ryder Cup.  Other than that, yeah, it was a great back nine but didn't get off to the start I really wanted to.  With the way the front nine was playing, there were a couple of holes that were downwind and that had a chance to get some birdies going.  Really wasn't able to do that. But definitely pleased with the way I hung in there, the way I fought it out.  I made some great par saves.  And tried to give Rory a little run at the end, but just got on the gas a little too late.   Q.  To shoot four rounds in the 60s and post a 15-under and not win, how difficult is that to accept?  RICKIE FOWLER: You know, it's kind of similar to being one of the only guys at the U.S. Open to be under par and not win.  It was a great week there, as well.  And the same here.  Rory just kind of distanced himself from the field a bit, especially with his finish yesterday.  It's hard to be disappointed about it, because it was such a great week.  And with the way I had been playing in the majors, there was some pressure to play well this week. But with how comfortable I've been, I mentioned yesterday, it doesn't feel like a big stage.  It feels like I should be here. I'm definitely pleased with it.  There's plenty more to come.  I'll take 15-under in a lot of majors and sit there and wait in the clubhouse. Congratulations to Rory.  He played awesome.  And it was just kind of fun to throw a few shots at him coming in.  To see him win was pretty cool.   Q.  Just wondering what your overriding memory of this week is going to be?  RICKIE FOWLER: Probably just the walk up there on 18.  It's definitely up there as the best walk in golf.  And to be there with Rory when he was about to win, I had a chance at making eagle there, and putting a little bit of pressure there on him.  But it's definitely fun to walk up the 18th hole here at an Open Championship, especially Sunday when you're in the final group.   Q.  Looking ahead to the Ryder Cup, you mentioned that.  What does that mean to you now that you've pretty much guaranteed your place?  RICKIE FOWLER: Well, going into the year the goal was to be in contention at majors and play well and have chances to win.  And with the good play, the long-distance goal on that was to be on the Ryder Cup team.  With the way I've played in the majors this year, that's definitely what has given me the opportunity to represent the country and play in the Ryder Cup.   Q.  Is this sort of consistency what you had in mind when you started working with Butch?  How has that work translated into the way you're playing now?  RICKIE FOWLER: Well, it definitely hasn't been my most consistent year.  But as far as where my focus has been to play well in majors and really focusing on the prep and the lead-up the weeks prior and then playing well in the majors, it's definitely been the most consistent, if you look at it that way.  And it's been my most successful year so far, even with the most cuts that I've ever missed in a year.  Because my main goal going into the year was to be in contention in majors. So we'll see.  I'll definitely be looking next year as to how I want to schedule my way around the year and my main focus going forward will be on the biggest events, and trying to prepare to be where I'm at in majors.   Q.  I know you said that you stepped on the gas a little bit too late, but is there any satisfaction in the fact that you did push Rory down to the stretch?  RICKIE FOWLER: Definitely.  I had to make a couple of really good par saves coming in on the start of the back nine to kind of hang in there and give myself that opportunity to make some birdies.  But he drove it well all day, didn't really put too much pressure on himself.  Once he drove it in the fairway on 16 and gave himself an easy birdie there, it was going to be a bit tough to catch him. But definitely, definitely fun to make a few birdies at the end to finish strong.  Tie with Sergio for second and at least show Rory that we were still there.   Q.  Obviously with Rory winning and yourself finishing so well in the last two majors, do you feel like maybe this is a time for the changing of the guard to the younger generation of golfers?  RICKIE FOWLER: I mean, we've been here for a few years.  Rory is obviously doing well with three majors now.  I definitely have some catching up to do.  But I am getting closer.  It's been fun to be in contention at the majors this year. As far as changing of the guard, I don't see Tiger and Phil and some of those guys running off anywhere.  We're ready to go to battle against them, though.   Q.  You've played rounds at Augusta with Rory in competition.  Do you think he'll eventually win there?  How do you think his game translates there?  RICKIE FOWLER: I really don't have any doubt that he'll win there.  It would be nice if I can get him first there.  I don't see any reason why he's not going to win there.  Definitely fits his game.  It's hard to say that there's really any course that doesn't suit him when he's on his game.  And I've seen him play very well there.  It's just a matter of time. Like I said, it would be nice if I can get that one before he does.   MIKE WOODCOCK: Rickie, it's been a great week for you.  Thank you for joining us in the interview room, and best of luck in future Open championships.   RICKIE FOWLER: Thank you.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT