ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 13, 2014
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Ten birdies and a closing round of 65, just how much fun have you had today?   
RICKIE FOWLER:   It was a good time.   I was able to get back, get a meal in last night.   Been staying over at Trump this week, definitely a great spot to hang out.   Just was ready to go and kind of get after it today.   
Obviously we had some perfect conditions.   The rain softened the course up a little bit and not a whole lot of wind.   So knew that I was going to have to make some birdies to at least hold my position or move up.   
Did just that, got off to a great start and hit all the par5s in two.   I think one of them I was just off the front edge, but I was able to get 2‑putt birdies there.   It was a pretty simple round other than the couple bad swings I made that cost me.   
Made a double at 9 that kind of set me back and made a couple bogeys on the way in, but a lot of birdies and a lot of good from this week.   Had a great time at The Scottish Open and obviously looking forward to next week.  
   
 Q.   You told us coming into the year that your main goal was to contend at the majors.   You finished second at the Masters and the U.S. Open.   Justin used to talk about trending going no a major.   You look like you are to us.   
RICKIE FOWLER:   The main goal of the year was to be ready to go and be in contention at Augusta.   I guess Bubba and Jordan kind of ran away a little bit, but to finish fifth there and to get ready for the U.S. Open; playing the weeks before definitely helps me to make sure to kind of go through a checklist and see before the game is at.   Obviously played well at the U.S. Open with a T‑2 there and off to a good start here, so I'm excited for next week.  
   
 Q.   The Ryder Cup in Scotland, how much are you looking forward to coming back here for that?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   Well, I love playing links golf, so I definitely made a big jump after the U.S. Open on the points list, got up to seventh.   
Obviously a lot more golf to be played.   Some work to be done.   Obviously I would really love to be on the team and I would love to earn my way on the team but we'll see what happens.   I definitely enjoy being over here, love playing the links golf, and I think it shows.   Had some fun today.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT