WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 20, 2014
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   It's not how you start, but how you finish.   After a little bit of a mess on 15, how were you able to regroup on 16, 17 and 18?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   I told my caddie, Joe, let's try and birdie the last three, make some good swings.   Obviously didn't birdie 17 and 18, but made two really good putts along with the birdie putt on 16.   It's really more of making good putts.   Definitely helped, finally got the putter to roll a couple in.   Been swinging great, so give us a little confidence going into tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Speaking of confidence, how much can it give you knowing you took down arguably the hottest player on the PGA Tour?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   You have got to beat whoever you play in match play or else you're going home.   Simple as that.   
To get the win yesterday against probably one of the best match play players there is, and then today against Jimmy, he's, I mean, arguably the best player the last six months or so with three wins.   He's obviously on top of his game.   I knew coming in today that even if he didn't bring his A game, he was going to be tough to beat.   
We had a fun match.   We had a good time out there.   Definitely nice to come out on top.  
   
 Q.   Winter Olympics going on right now.   Golf back in 2016 at Rio.   How much do you think about it?   How much would it mean to play for America a couple of years from now?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   It would be awesome, just being a part of the team and being able to represent your country is like nothing else.   
I've played in two Walker Cups, which is the amateur version of the Ryder Cup, played the Ryder Cup in 2010.   It's so much fun not just on the golf course but off the golf course being around the guys and being a part of the team.   You know, playing two years at Oklahoma State were some of the best times of my life.   Being able to represent the country, it would be pretty cool to go to the Olympics.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT