HUMANA CHALLENGE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CLINTON FOUNDATION
January 16, 2014
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
RICKIE FOWLER:   It was good.   I made a lot of good swings, I drove the ball very well today, hit a lot of fairways.   
I hit some good putts, a couple bad ones.   I had a lot of good looks, missed a few, made a couple.   So I'm going to go hit a few balls and it's just about getting comfortable.   And just a couple rough swings where I was just a little bit off, made a couple bogeys, but other than that it was a good solid start, I'm looking forward to tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Now you're here in your home State of California, what would it mean to get a win here?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   It would be awesome.   I have one TOUR win but I definitely don't want to be remembered as a one time winner.   So we'll see what we can do here.   We got a few good starts here on the West Coast, and we would like to get one close to home.  
   
 Q.   So 4‑under, a few shots back, pretty satisfied with today's round?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, today was good.   I drove the ball well, I got some good momentum going, feel good about where the game's at.   I'm just going to go hit a few balls, going to head over to the Madison Club.   I'm staying over there this week, and it's nice to get some practice over there.   So I'll go get a few swings in and get ready for the rest of the week.  
   
 Q.   Is there pressure to go really low in a round now?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   No, just got to stay consistent.   Definitely birdies are out there.   You definitely got to shoot under par.   So I would say that 4‑under is like maybe shooting even par out here.   So keep it rolling, keep shooting 4 or 5‑under and you never know, maybe sneak in a low one.   
   
 Q.   How do you feel about the way your round went today?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   I feel pretty good.   I drove the ball very well, I didn't miss many fairways.   I had a couple putts kind of slide by early, played pretty solid.   Made a couple loose swings.   Other than that, didn't make too many mistakes.   Had the two bogeys.   Both with par putts.   
So 4‑under is definitely a great start and kind of keep it rolling and you never know, maybe a low one will sneak in.   
   
 Q.   Do you pay attention to like, having to get a certain score, pose a certain score, depending upon the course, because when you play those different courses and this is kind of renowned for being the tougher of the three.   
RICKIE FOWLER:   Really, just going out and kind of whatever game you have that day.   That will dictate how hard you can push or how conservative you're going to play.   So, I was able to push it off the tee a little bit today, since I was driving it well and able to give myself a lot of good looks.   Unfortunately, I wasn't able to make as many putts as I would have liked to.   
But, definitely, just trying to play as solid as possible, trying not to give away any shots just because out here, it's definitely about making birdies.   
   
 Q.   This is your second time here?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   Second time.   
   
 Q.   Do you notice a lot of difference from the first time, your first time was 2010, right?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, my rookie year.   
   
 Q.   Notice a lot of changes out here?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   Well, the changes with the parings, having two pros, two amateurs per group, it's a smaller field as far as the amateurs go.   I feel like it's better for pace of play, I think it's better for the amateurs and the pros.   The amateurs get to spend some more time with the pros versus being in a big group with one guy.   
They have done a lot of good things out here.   Pace of play is definitely a big thing and it slowed down a little bit on back nine today but we moved along good.   I would say the weather is kind of hard to beat.  
   
 Q.   Were you in a celebrity field the last time you played here?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   I was.  
   
 Q.   Who did you get a chance to play with?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   I got Bo Jackson one day.   Jeremy Roenick.   We were supposed to play with Bruce Jenner, but he didn't come.   No, I still stay in touch with Roenick a little bit, so it's fun having the celebrities around, but at the same time we are here playing a golf tournament and trying to put up some scores.  
So, we had a great group today with Toby, I've known him for a bit.   He's a first tee announcer over at Augusta for the Masters.   He played with Brandt and then I got to play with Rick, who is involved with Humana, so we had a good time.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT