THE BARCLAYS
August 24, 2013
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You got off to the start that you wanted, including that eagle on No. 6, just talk a little about that, and the round as a whole?
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, I got off to a nice start, made the putt on 1, and not my‑‑ I made a good swing on the par5 there on 6.   Just caught it a little thin obviously it turned out all right, made the putt for 3. 
Made a lot of really good swings.   The one I hit in the water on 9 really wasn't bad.   The wind kind of just laid down and didn't really move the ball like I thought it would.   So made a lot of good swings today and hit a lot of good putts.   Some just didn't go in. 
Been swinging great the last month or two, and looking forward to going out, I know it will be a little ways out in front of the leaders, so see if we can get a solid start and post a number early.

Q.   Take me through No. 6 with the clubs you hit. 
RICKIE FOWLER:   Hit driver off the tee.   We had about 215 or 220 hole back into the wind.   Hit 3‑iron to about 20 feet.   The putt was a left‑to‑right breaker early and then straightened out towards the whole.   I had a good idea that it was going to be in from about three or four feet out.

Q.   At 9‑under par today for Kevin Chappell, so there's a good score out there.   What do you think it will take tomorrow? 
RICKIE FOWLER:   It's definitely starting to play tougher out there.   The back nine, there was a few spike marks and the greens were starting to get a little crusty, with the breeze drying them out, it could play pretty tough tomorrow afternoon.   It would be nice to be playing a little earlier, better greens and better conditions. 
So you know, I don't know what the guys are finishing at, Gary got it to 12.   I would have to think get out there and post something in the teens if I go out and shoot six or seven tomorrow, I feel like that would have a pretty good chance to hold up with the guys playing later.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT