WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 1, 2013
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How much tougher is this course going to get?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   I definitely saw some breeze out there this morning, some of the guys playing well, and it was out there if you drove the ball well.   It's always a tough test here, but if we don't get any more water and the course is able to firm up and the greens get firm, driving the ball will be key because some of the smaller greens will be tough to hold, especially if you're coming from the rough.   Luckily I drove it well today, so hopefully I can feed off of that.   
   
 Q.   Have you been to Oak Hill yet?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, I was up there on Monday.   You'd better be able to drive your golf ball there, too.   This is two good weeks back‑to‑back for driving and ball‑striking, just to give yourself an opportunity to make birdies and pars.   
   
 Q.   What did you think of the greens there?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   Well, they were a little slow and still soft right now, but they were healthy, so I think the course is in a good position going into Championship week next week.   It looks like as long as the weather cooperates they'll be able to set it up however they want.   The rough is thick and healthy as you'd ever want it, so they'll be able to cut that or dictate how that plays, and I'm sure they'll be able to firm up the greens if they want to.  
   
 Q.   Is this a good course to set up for next week?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, especially if the course stays dry and it starts to firm up through the weekend, it's very comparable as far as you've got to drive the ball well and position yourself off the tee.   I really enjoyed Oak Hill Monday.   Great warm‑up here, but obviously this is one of our bigger weeks of the year, too.   Two good weeks back‑to‑back and two great golf courses.  
   
 Q.   What's it like when you come off the course and you see kids dressed like you?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   I love it.   I saw it all day all 18 holes, so it's fun.   Whether I'm having a good day or bad day, I can look over and see the kids running around.   It's an easy way to put a smile on your face.   I'm lucky to be in the position I'm in, having the fans that I do.  
   
 Q.   What if it's like an adult?   
RICKIE FOWLER:   That's even better.   (Laughter.)  
   
 Q.   What if it's a quarterback?   
RICKIE FOWLER:   Oh, looks great in orange, yeah.   
   
 Q.   One of the other guys was talking about today that as you get established in your career you sort of maybe hear from fans like early in your career if you have a bad day they think, oh, that guy stinks, but once you're established‑‑  
RICKIE FOWLER:   No, they still rip on you on social media.  
   
 Q.   They don't think he's a great player who had a bad day?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   No, they let you know what they think.  
   
 Q.   Do you notice any different level of respect as you get more established as a golfer?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, once you win an event as a professional, win a PGA TOUR event, you see guys win majors, obviously there's levels of respect.   But I mean, actually we were talking about it last night.   I think I was with Bubba and a couple of guys, it doesn't matter if you do everything perfect there are still going to be guys that want to rip you.   You have to deal with it, in one ear and out the other, and keep doing what we do out here day‑to‑day.  
   
 Q.   Everyone isn't nice to you on social media?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   No.   
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts on Inbee Park potentially winning her‑‑  
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, she was 6 through 10, right?   I saw she three‑putted 16.   It's pretty cool.   She's been, I think, living and training out of where I grew up, Murrieta Temecula.   I think Joe trains with the same guy that she's been working with in the gym and stuff.   I don't know her personally.   I know she's been playing well and it's pretty impressive what she's doing.   It doesn't matter what stage you're on, to pick out certain events and go ahead and go win them and have a chance to win, this is the fourth one, right?   
   
 Q.   Yeah, it would be her fourth consecutive, only Tiger and Mickey Wright have done that.   
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, that's not that bad.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT