THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2013
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Kind of not an odd start, but nothing really disastrous happened, but nothing really got going.   
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, it's kind of how this little three‑week stretch has been for me.   Fortunately, I played really well through this three‑week stretch last year; 10th in New Orleans, won in Charlotte, and finished second here.   I was looking forward to playing and just swinging well.   It's like there's cellophane over the hole right now.   I can't buy a putt. Obviously, when putts aren't going in, it kind of starts to leak into different parts of the game, and it's really hard to build momentum.  
   
 Q.   Is it just a little mental thing?   
RICKIE FOWLER:   No, none of it is really mental.   I'm swinging well.   I'm hitting putts where I want to hit them; sometimes it's just the wrong speed, not reading them correctly and spike marks here or there, just the ball's not going in the hole.   It's part of golf, kind of getting through the low spots.   
The good thing is I have no excuses on why I missed the cut.   I'm playing well, putts just aren't going in.   I'm looking forward to a week off and then going to Crowne Plaza and then Memorial, places I've played well before.   See if we can get some putts to go in and see if we can win the tournament.  
   
 Q.   You say you're going to take the week off; what are you going to do, just put the clubs away for a few days?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   I'll probably head home tomorrow.   I'm probably just going to drive down.   But I may get a little bit of practice in early on just to kind of let out some aggression, maybe, see if we can get some putts to go in and kind of take some time off in the middle of the week and then maybe get a couple days in before I leave for Crowne Plaza.  
   
 Q.   When it comes to high spots, you had played so well in the Open Championship in 2011 and in that blustery weather, how much is that going to help you as you look to the British Open and we're in the major season here?   How much does that help you going into the next British Open?   
RICKIE FOWLER:   I'm looking forward to getting back over there.   I've had some good finishes in the British Open.   I like playing in different conditions, and I love playing links golf.   So I just hope we can kind of get some putts falling.   My main focus, obviously, is my next tournament at Crowne Plaza, but big picture is looking at the next major, the U.S. Open, and kind of see if we can peak at the right time.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT