WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
January 31, 2013
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  RICKIE FOWLER:   Second hole of the day on 11 he hit it right in the trees and ended up with a birdie, and he started off, I think, with four right out of the gate.   He just had some things going for him, and obviously you've got to keep it going.   He made some good putts today, drove the ball well, other than those couple holes.   Fun to watch.   It was‑‑ I mean, I think it was disappointing for everyone to not see that one go in on the last.   
   
 Q.   When you saw him hit that, did you think it was going to go in?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   From the angle I was at, I mean, a lot of people it's tough to see from the side, but I guess from a player's perspective, from the side of a putt you can usually tell when it's a good putt or not.   I thought it was in.   Obviously Phil thought it was, too, and just snuck out there at the end.  
   
 Q.   If you can't shoot a 59, is the second best thing being paired with someone who shoots‑‑ has a chance to shoot a 59, or is it actually a very hard thing?   
RICKIE FOWLER:   No, it was fun out there.   Obviously it would be fun to shoot one.   I haven't.   I think the closest I've come is 62.   It was cool out there.   I was pulling for him, trying to stay out of his way, because obviously it would have been cool to see some history.   
   
 Q.   Does it kind of push you or get you to go‑‑  
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, it's fun to try and pull some of his energy, try and match up.   He was making a lot of birdies out there, and I had a couple holes that got away from me, but other than that I played pretty solidly.   Instead of being nine shots back like last week, I'm only eight.   
   
 Q.   You were talking with him as you walked up the last couple fairways.   Is it almost like he was‑‑ did you sense he just wanted to‑‑  
RICKIE FOWLER:   I just wanted to keep it like a normal round, not that I was trying to help him or anything, but we usually talk out there.   
   
 Q.   I would imagine like you're not really sure, like is he in a zone‑‑  
RICKIE FOWLER:   No, I don't talk to him about golf or anything, but outside of that, it's always‑‑ I feel like maybe when you have someone to talk to, it's a little easier to keep your mind off of golf.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT