BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 9, 2012
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Well, you came into this week 0 for 2 heading to East Lake, but now it's a done deal.   You can't fall out of the top 30, so you are heading to East Lake.   Just some initial comments how much that was on your mind this week. 
RICKIE FOWLER:   I mean, definitely today once I got to 2‑over, I knew I had to come in and finish strong.   I didn't really look at boards out there today.   Just wanted to try and keep swinging well.   I hit‑‑ I was swinging it some of my best this week that I've swung all year, just didn't exactly score after the first day.   Just had to kind of keep relying on the swing and keep swinging well and made some good pars coming down the stretch here.

Q.   Maybe the answer is not at all, but how much was East Lake on your mind coming into the week and throughout the week? 
RICKIE FOWLER:   Well, it's been a goal of mine all year.   Three goals were to win, get to the TOUR Championship, make the Ryder Cup team.   I think we're going to fall one short, but two for three is not bad.   Like I said, it was one of my main goals coming in, so obviously you have to think about that if it's a goal. 

Q.   You had the two bogeys there, I think 12 and 14.   Did you ever start to feel pressure out there that maybe this was going to happen like it was the last couple years?
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, but I just kind of had to stay in the moment, made sure I stayed focused and I kept going through my routine and kept hitting golf shots.   I didn't miss very many shots today, and the score definitely doesn't reflect the way I was swinging and hitting the ball. 
You know, I'm fortunate to be in a good position with my golf game right now.   I'm hitting it solid, hitting it well.   It's going to be nice to have a week off, figure out the scoring a bit and get ready for East Lake. 

Q.   I know Hunter said that he was going to have trouble getting the Ryder Cup out of his mind this week.   You didn't seem to have that kind of problem.   You seemed pretty focused. 
RICKIE FOWLER:   No, I've been swinging well, so that's been a good thing.   Obviously it was disappointing not to play well the last few weeks and give myself a better chance to make the team.   But I'm playing great, so I'm looking at it as I have a lot more Ryder Cups in the future and just need to keep playing well and worry about my other goal, making it to the TOUR Championship.   I really needed to have a good week here.

Q.   What happened on 8? 
RICKIE FOWLER:   I hit it in the bunker right, poor bunker shot, and then ended up missing a short one for 5. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT