BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 4, 2012
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JOEL SCHUCHMANN:   Rickie Fowler, thanks for joining us here at the BMW Championship.   Your third time playing this event and obviously this year we're at Crooked Stick.   Maybe some comments about coming back to play the third event of the Playoffs. 
RICKIE FOWLER:   Looking forward to it.   Off to a bit of a rough start so looking forward to turning that around.   Start posting some scores and work on getting to the TOUR Championship and getting ourselves to ultimately win the FedExCup.   Two good weeks of play and see if we can take care of that. 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:   You've been out here most of the day.   What do you think of the golf course? 
RICKIE FOWLER:   I got some practice in this morning and then went and played nine holes.   I like the look of the golf course, definitely I've been a fan of Pete Dye design and the way he lays out courses, and I like the kind of smaller greens.   Looking forward to it.   It is a little soft right now, but hopefully get some warm weather and keep the rain away to let it firm up and let the TOUR set up the course accordingly. 

Q.   With the big news today with the Ryder Cup captain's picks, just your reaction to not being picked on the team. 
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, with the way I played the last two weeks I definitely felt like I was kind of on the outside looking in and knew it was going to be‑‑ if I was going to be picked, it would be obviously not off of recent play, off of my play earlier this year and being the addition that I would be to the team on and off the course and someone that fits in well. 
But I know that with the picks, he obviously went with some guys that have been there, guys that are playing well right now, which I completely understand, and just look forward to moving on in the FedExCup Playoffs and looking forward to the next Ryder Cup. 

Q.   I know you're dealing with your own Ryder Cup disappointment, but could you speak to Hunter Mahan being left off the team, having been there with him, knowing what the Ryder Cup meant to him and how much he wanted to get back, just your thoughts on him not making it? 
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, I know obviously the both of us, that was a main goal going into this year was being on the team.   With Hunter just missing out on points, it's a tough position to be in.   I know him and I both didn't play as well as we would have liked to the last couple weeks, and it seems like Davis definitely went off the two guys that were playing well, and I think he‑‑ with the other two spots being the veteran picks, just there's certain guys that have to be left out, and just happened to be Hunter and I. 

Q.   What has been missing lately from your game? 
RICKIE FOWLER:   I've actually been striking it well, starting putts on line, and just not relating directly over to scoring.   Just haven't been getting the ball in the hole quick enough, had a few penalty shots last week.   I struggle getting off to good starts.   I'm over par early so fighting back all day every day.   So this week just kind of got‑‑ just go through the process, make sure I'm ready to hit each shot, eliminate mistakes and try and get off to some better starts.

Q.   Why did you shave?
RICKIE FOWLER:   I felt like it.   It'll be back, don't worry. 

Q.   You had that beautiful run from late April to late May with the four consecutive top tens, the win, THE PLAYERS.   What happened after that?   Can you put your finger on it? 
RICKIE FOWLER:   I mean, definitely‑‑ well, I played a tough stretch of golf with some tough golf courses, just got kind of on the wrong side of it.   I took some time off in the summer, which was trying something new.   I was looking forward to getting some rest, getting ready for the post season, get ready for the Playoffs, and then hopefully play well enough and play the Ryder Cup. 
But now looking back on it, I can obviously say that maybe we should have went a different route, but obviously you can always say that when something doesn't work out. 
So just didn't play as well as I would have liked to this summer.   Like I said, I kind of got on the wrong side of it and was kind of directly related to how I've been starting out rounds, getting a little bit behind early and kind of fighting back throughout the rest of the round. 
Just, like I said, got going the wrong direction and been fighting back since then. 

Q.   It's kind of a grueling schedule; distractions have to play a role in your golf game.   What would be the one or two biggest distractions that you've got to phase out as you get in the zone?
RICKIE FOWLER:   Coming into the media center (smiling).   No, I'm just kidding.
Biggest distractions?   It's more just a time management issue, making sure that come Thursday I'm ready to tee it up and play golf and be competitive.   So making sure that Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, whether it's making sure I'm spending enough time making sure I'm ready mentally, physically, whether it's working out, making sure the body is healthy, making sure I'm ready to play the golf course, not spending too much time signing and wearing myself down, but also at the same time making sure I'm spending time with the fans.   So it's just managing my time well, but I don't think there's any specific part that is worse than the other. 

Q.   And speaking of the fans, you see a lot of people around here, especially younger folks, that have your style out there.   How does that help you, especially having your fans follow you and show that you are so popular on TOUR, and they believe in you, that you can come back and show the form that you showed earlier this season? 
RICKIE FOWLER:   It's a lot of fun for me to go week to week, city to city, and receive the same support.   I have a great following, a great group of fans, and it's a lot of fun for me seeing the ones that are on the younger side, younger than me, that in a way are looking up to me and hopefully looking for me to be a positive role model.   Hopefully their parents are allowing them to look up to me, and that's something I want to do is be someone that kids' parents let them look up to, and at the same time play good golf, but we'll work on that right now. 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:   Rickie Fowler, good luck this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT