THE BARCLAYS
August 24, 2012
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Just general thoughts on today?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   So‑so, still playing solid, swing feels really good.   Like I said, I got some really good work in last week, and feeling confident and comfortable.   The couple bogeys that I made were, I guess, not too big a mistakes, just put myself in a tough spot.   Ended up making some good birdies in the middle and just a good, solid round of golf.   It's not an easy golf course.   It's long and tough.   So I feel like I'm in a great position going into the weekend.   
   
 Q.   How was it today compared to yesterday?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   It was definitely easier than yesterday afternoon.   The greens were a bit firmer yesterday and a little bit crusty.   They rolled a lot better this morning.   I hit some good putts, got a few to go in, but just put myself in a couple spots where it was tough to make par.   
But like I said, in a great spot for the weekend and looking forward to that.   
   
 Q.   What did you think yesterday when you pulled up here and saw the scores?   
RICKIE FOWLER:   Well, I knew being a tough course that the greens had to be somewhat receptive.   I know it was soft throughout the first part of the week, and they firmed up in the afternoon.   Other than the late birdie run, I didn't really do anything special, just kept it pretty mellow and just happened to make some birdies late and turned a so‑so round into a good round.   
But when you come in and see those low numbers, it kind of gives you a little kick in the butt to‑‑ you've got to go out there and take care of business.   
   
 Q.   Do you have the Ryder Cup on your mind this week at all?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   I mean, I was trying not to think about it as much as possible.   But you try and keep it out of the back of your mind as much as you can.   I'm focusing on playing as well as I can this week and move on to next week and focus on getting to the TOUR Championship.   If I keep playing well, then let the game kind of talk for itself.   If Davis feels like I should be a part of the team and feels like I can help out, then I'll be there.   But just got to worry about getting the ball in the hole and playing the best I can this week.   
   
 Q.   Being on the last Ryder Cup team, what did that do to help you?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   Well, it's a special experience being a part of the team and getting to know the guys on and off the golf course, and then having the experiences that I did in the matches, especially Monday in the singles matches coming down the stretch.   In a way it was like coming down the stretch and winning a golf tournament.   It helped prepare me for when I was at Quail Hollow and hitting the shots coming down the stretch there and in the playoff.   
The experience just gave me more confidence and has definitely helped me the last couple years.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT