THE BARCLAYS
August 23, 2012
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What a nice little run you went on, four birdies in a row on that back side.   
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, I got off to a nice start, just was hitting the ball solid and just didn't really get anything going, made some good up‑and‑downs and finally caught a little fire there and made a couple birdies, chipped a couple in, and nice way to finish the round.  
   
 Q.   Yeah, two chip‑ins during that run?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, I chipped in on both 15 and 16, two not‑so‑easy holes, and to walk away from there with two 3s is nice.  
   
 Q.   And just 25 putts total for the day.   
RICKIE FOWLER:   I'll take it.   It's been a while since I've been low on putts.   Been putting well, just not hitting it close enough, having long putts, and obviously that adds up on the scorecard very quickly, so nice to see some go in.  
   
 Q.   I'm really impressed with your patience, that you can go through the front nine, not make a lot of birdies, just being really steady wondering if this is going to be a good round and then suddenly you get rewarded for it.   
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, I played a few times last week, and there was one time I was playing with Keegan at Bear's Club and shot a couple under on the front nine, didn't really get anything going, and I made six in a row.   That alone and seeing myself make some birdies late in the round and just being patient, waiting for things to happen, especially today, it definitely paid off.  
   
 Q.   That's a really good number in the afternoon.   How did the greens hold up today?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   They had good speed.   They definitely firmed up as the day went on.   You could definitely see them bouncing a little bit with some spike marks, and for the most part just focused on hitting some solid putts.   I think I had one that kind of hopped off on me.   Other than that, hit some solid putts, and they stayed on line.   
   
 Q.   You were ho‑humming it around even par and then you got to that four‑hole stretch and went birdie‑birdie‑birdie‑birdie.   Did something click on the back nine?   
RICKIE FOWLER:   I finally got one in there that was a makeable birdie putt.   Hit a great putt.   Same thing on the next hole, and then I happened to chip two in after that.   Not your normal four in a row, but nice to get it there at the end of the round, nice way to finish.  
   
 Q.   A lot of players were‑‑ they didn't know what to expect from Bethpage in this tournament.   When you see guys in the morning go out and post 64, 65, 66, what does that do for your mentality before you hit the first tee?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   Well, you obviously know a little bit how the course is playing.   I heard the greens were still fairly receptive this morning.   It firmed up as the day went on, and I knew that there were some scores out there.   It gives you some confidence going on.   It's obviously a big golf course.   It's not the easiest one we play all year.   Just knew I had to keep it in the fairway and keep moving forward, like I said, staying patient, and finally got something to happen at the end.  
   
 Q.   And finally, you're in consideration to be a captain's pick by Davis Love III for the U.S. Ryder Cup Team.   How much of that is rattling around in your head as you play this event?  
RICKIE FOWLER:   Well, you can try and block it out as much as possible.   That's what everyone tells you to do.   But to be honest, that's obviously where I want to be in a few weeks, and keep focusing on my game and playing well.   I got some good work in last week and just focusing on playing well this week and let the game do its thing and see where that puts us.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT