THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE INSURANCE
June 1, 2012
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How was it out there today?   Long day, I guess. 
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah.

Q.   How big of a pain is it when you have a delay like that?
RICKIE FOWLER:   I mean, you've just got to play when you get to play.   It ended up being all right, getting a little bit of a break.   I had 2‑over through a few holes there, and nice to come in, get a little bit of food and then restart.   I played a little better after that. 
Yeah, like I said, you've just kind of got to go out and play when you get to play.

Q.   Yesterday there was a situation with the cell phones and all that.   You got a firsthand look at it.   Was it better today, and how tough was that yesterday?
RICKIE FOWLER:   It was awesome today.   I'd guess a little smaller crowd, obviously Phil not being here, weather, and a morning time.   But the Tournament did a great job today.   We had a few guys out there following us kind of managing the situation.   I really didn't hear very many today.   They were on top of it, and the TOUR and the Tournament did a great job with that.
Yesterday it was probably‑‑ one of the worst I've seen, but obviously at every tournament cell phones have been around, so it wasn't something new that just happened this week.   It just happened to be a little bit more than some other events, and the TOUR and the Tournament stepped up and did a great job today.

Q.   The TOUR and the course has kind of embraced the social media.   You're a young guy that really gets all that stuff.   It's probably not going to get any better, is it?
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, it's part of today's day and age.   Obviously being without a cell phone is a bit tough.   You never know if an emergency comes up, or people being able to attend events and still do business throughout the mobile device areas.   So yeah, it's just kind of taking it step by step, and I know the TOUR and all the tournaments will kind of piece together all the info and try and make it the best that they can. 
It's tough to go back without cell phones.   Like you said, it's part of today's day and age.

Q.   Was the key of your round the last two holes‑‑
RICKIE FOWLER:   I made a bunker shot on 17, which is a tough up‑and‑down, but yeah, that definitely helped me go into the front nine with a little bit of momentum, and I hit a good shot‑‑ finally hit the center of the club face with a 7‑iron on 18 the approach shot, and finishing with two birdies there going into the front nine was nice. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
RICKIE FOWLER:   Well, I hope not.   There's certain, I guess, exceptions.   16 at Phoenix, I tend to‑‑ last year I just pumped them up and made them get as loud as possible because constant noise is better than a little noise here and there.   Hopefully we don't have to play through much noise throughout the future of tournaments just because it's golf and it's‑‑ it's supposed to be quiet when you're hitting. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
RICKIE FOWLER:   Well, then you're kind of shutting the fans out, so that wouldn't look too good. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
RICKIE FOWLER:   It's not as challenging.   The wind definitely made it more challenging today, and every once in a while getting a little bit of mud on the ball definitely made it tough.   Some casual water, so I had a free drop here and there.   I enjoyed seeing it the way it was yesterday with some firm greens and finally getting to see it without much rain coming through until today.   Hopefully this is the last of the rain, and we'll see the course firm up a bit for the weekend. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
RICKIE FOWLER:   I'm excited to watch both those guys coming up.   I've tried going undercover.   It doesn't work.   I stand out to obviously the normal golf fans and then every once in a while to just an average person walking around.   But no, I've tried going undercover a little bit.   Obviously I don't wear Puma stuff or a Puma hat out and around a whole lot.   I mean, that would be a target on top of my head.   We try and slide under the radar a little bit.   It works a small part of the time. 
It's still nice to see fans when they come up to me in public, and I still want to interact with them and sign an autograph, take a picture.

Q.   You're a California man.   (Indiscernible.)
RICKIE FOWLER:   I actually think if he gets in, gets some time early, I mean, he's got a lot of power and definitely very accurate thrower, very mature, obviously spending time as a professional athlete before, I think that's definitely going to help him.   Age‑wise I don't think that really is too much of a factor just because he hasn't been playing football for very long, so his body is still healthy.   I'm looking forward to watching him.   He's obviously very talented, and if he can get out and build some confidence early, he could be a‑‑

Q.   (Inaudible.)
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, Barry Sanders is still up there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT