THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2012
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Can you start by talking about 17 and how you played that hole and how big that was going into 18? 
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, 17 I had a good number with 51‑degree, same club I hit last week on 18 in the playoff.   Fairly similar numbers, and hit a good shot in there, thought it was actually going to catch the ridge and just hung up.   Got a pretty good read from Ben Curtis on his putt going down.   A little different line, but getting to see the speed and a little bit how the ball reacted gave me a little bit more confidence in my read.   Hit a good putt, went in the middle, and felt good coming into 18 and just didn't start the ball where I wanted to on the last putt.

Q.   What will you take away from this week?   Obviously another tremendous performance.   How do you view it?
RICKIE FOWLER:   Well, I've had three good weeks in a row.   Last week went into the playoff, and then here making the swings that I did down the stretch when I was behind. 
You know, trying to put some pressure on Kuch.   It was a lot of fun, a lot of fun to be in the moment, and that's why we play the game.   It's nice to be back hanging around with the guys in contention.

Q.   Was there anything that happened in the middle of the round there where you kind of faltered for a few holes that stood out?
RICKIE FOWLER:   I didn't get the best of breaks.   I had some awkward stances, a few awkward lies and tried to make the best of them.   I had some par putts on some of those holes that just slid by the edge, one for bogey and ended up making double. 
You know, a few of the putts just didn't drop today.   You kind of need some putts to drop to win. 

Q.   You've got to be pretty tired. 
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, I'm taking next week off, then play the Crowne Plaza at Colonial, Memorial, week off, and then U.S. Open.

Q.   Did the golf course allow you to think that aggressively, particularly coming down the stretch the way that it was set up?
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, I played very aggressive and made a lot of aggressive swings all day.   Yeah, it was a bit softer than yesterday.   Greens were very receptive, and you were able to get at some pins.   But the wind was swirling around a little bit in the middle of the round, and it wasn't blowing exactly the same direction all day.   It jumped up on us a couple times and made us look like we mis‑clubbed, but it just made the ball react a little funny in the air.

Q.   When you made your birdie putt on 17, did you look back to see what Matt was doing?
RICKIE FOWLER:   I saw him over there.   I knew he had a putt for birdie there, but I wasn't paying a whole lot of attention.   It was nice, once I made the putt, I kind of turned and was walking to 18 trying to focus on making 3 there. 

Q.   What's the difference in your confidence given the way you played these last two weeks?   I know you've always felt like this was going to happen at some point.   How much different is your confidence level? 
RICKIE FOWLER:   Well, golf swing wise I've been swinging it well, hitting the ball in the center of the club face, and then to get the win last week after a top 10, being back in contention and getting to feel the nerves gave me a lot of confidence because of how well I did feel in contention. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT