WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 5, 2012
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Some leaderboard, it looks like a pretty good shootout. 
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, it's going to be fun tomorrow.   We'll see what some of the guys do the rest of the day today, and there's a lot of guys up there for tomorrow.   It's going to be a battle, and I think someone is going to have to go low.

Q.   We know one of these weeks is going to be your big week to win.   Would you like to be in this kind of event?
RICKIE FOWLER:   That would be awesome.   This is one of the best events we play all year here at Quail Hollow.   It's a packed leaderboard like you're talking about, and it would be nice to be on the top of it.   We'll see how we end up for today, see how everyone finishes and try and get off to a good start tomorrow. 

Q.   How good was that ending?
RICKIE FOWLER:   It was fun today.   I had a few mistakes, but other than that, did what we needed to do today, move in the right direction.   I've had a few Saturdays where I've moved the wrong way, and it's nice to get myself into position where we can go into tomorrow and have some fun.

Q.   What do you think the difference was this time?
RICKIE FOWLER:   Well, I hit a lot of greens.   I gave myself a lot of opportunities to make some birdies and made it fairly stress free on myself.   I think I missed two greens all day, and they were on the fringe.   Hard to really count those as misses.   Two bogeys, which kind of came from three‑putts, one from off the green, one from on, but other than that, like I say, in great position going into tomorrow. 

Q.   Just comment on your day. 
RICKIE FOWLER:   All in all, it was what we needed to do, moving day, moving in the right direction, and put myself into a position where we can go out and have a little bit of fun tomorrow.

Q.   67 obviously is out there, Rory tried to put together a round similar to that, but now you've put yourself in great position. 
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, it didn't play easy out there today, but I hit a lot of fairways and put myself in position.   I was able to hit a lot of greens and kept it fairly straight.   Made two bogeys, one came from just off the green, one was on, both basically three‑putts, just struggled with‑‑ I left them both a little bit short.   Other than that, I mean, a couple bad putts, but played very solid today, hit a lot of good shots, drove it well and made some good putts out there, as well. 

Q.   The lead hasn't moved beyond where it was to start the day.   Are you surprised?
RICKIE FOWLER:   A little bit.   There were some guys that got off and made some birdies early and got it to 13, and it doesn't really seem like anyone ran away from there.

Q.   Do you feel ready for your first win given what Dufner did recently?
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, I feel really comfortable here, have had some good finishes.   I've put up a lot of good rounds here, and been playing well recently.   We've got a pretty packed leaderboard, just going to try to put myself into position coming down to the last nine, maybe six holes tomorrow and give it a shot and see what happens.

Q.   How important was yesterday's round?
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yesterday was key.   Usually you're not going to have four perfect rounds or four great rounds, and yesterday just did a really good job of battling back and getting the most that I could out of that round.   Getting that back to shooting even par versus maybe shooting 75 to 78 can really make a difference, and looking at it now, I'm in a position where I'm in contention going into tomorrow.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT