WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 2, 2012
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Your thoughts on today's round? 
RICKIE FOWLER:   I'm off to a good start, but I wish I could have got a little more out of it.   I had a few putts that slid by and a few missed opportunities, but like I said, off to a good start and we'll look to build on it tomorrow.

Q.   Is it a good thing to know after day one, going into day two with good confidence, you feel like you have a chance to win this tournament?
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, I put the ball in play today and gave myself some opportunities, just need to get the ball a little closer to the hole, make a few more putts, and we'll be right in there.   The game feels good and excited to be here playing, and obviously a fun week.

Q.   What about playing in this group with Dustin and Phil and the marquee pairing of this first round?
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, great pairing, two guys that I love playing with.   Dustin lives close to me and I've spent some time with some Phil in some practice rounds and obviously Ryder Cup together, but a lot of fun.   Feeding off each other out there, and hopefully we can get things going well.

Q.   You're going green for this tournament.   Talk about this beautiful outfit you've got on today. 
RICKIE FOWLER:   Obviously it's been a great partnership with Waste Management partnering up with the Thunderbirds.   The Thunderbirds have been great to me, and this is my way of showing support.   I know that Green Out is on Saturday, so the questions have been why am I wearing it today.   Puma has got me with plenty of green, so no worries.

Q.   Would you talk about the hole‑out after you hit it in the water on the par‑5?
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, tight lie over there on the left side of the fairway on the second shot and just pushed it a bit.   So not the shot I was looking for, and I was trying to figure out where to drop for the wedge shot.   It ended up being that the drop zone had the best angle, went with it, and as soon as I hit it I knew how I wanted to hit it.   After that, it skipped behind the hole, and I could see it spinning right down the stick.   I knew it was going to be a really good chance with a foot or two to go.

Q.   The fans here the past few tournaments have really seemed to have taken a liking to you.   Do you sense that and what do you credit that to?
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, I have a great fan base and a lot of support from my fans.   It's great to have that.   It definitely is a lot of fun to play in front of them, especially the young kids that I have out following me and the kids that are dressing up in Puma gear and showing their support.   I can't thank them enough.   One of the main reasons we get to be out here playing every day is because of our fans.

Q.   Is the atmosphere kind of conducive to that, that kind of following, the young group?
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, a little bit.   Obviously the atmosphere here is fun and can get a bit crazy at times, so this is one tournament that I really look forward to.   But it's a lot of fun to have a young following, a lot of the young kids that look up to me, and definitely a position I want to be in.

Q.   Can you talk about 16 and what makes that hole so special?
RICKIE FOWLER:   16 is awesome.   It's definitely probably my favorite par‑3 on TOUR.   I mean, you walk in, it's a full stadium, and a lot of times come Friday, Saturday, you're almost playing it a little bit shorter just because when you get in there you get pumped up a bit and the ball seems to go a little bit further.   No, it's a lot of fun, and I look forward to playing it over the weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT