FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 29, 2012
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  RICKIE FOWLER:   Definitely a good start to the year, and I got a lot of momentum out of it.   Ready to go for next weekend.  
   
 Q.   Who is this guy Kyle Stanley?   Have you seen him play much?   
RICKIE FOWLER:   I have.   '07 Walker Cup teammate of mine.   Great guy.   Obviously, he's showing off his skills this week.  
   
 Q.   Talk to me again about the crowd and what's it like playing near home?   
RICKIE FOWLER:   Well, I definitely have a lot of great fans and supporters, especially here in Southern California.   Lot of friends and family come out as well.   It's fun for me.   I get to see some people I don't get to see all the time and play in front of people that are here to support me.   So definitely makes it for a fun week.  
   
 Q.   What is your schedule like the next three weeks?   
RICKIE FOWLER:   So far playing in the next two and that's what I'm planning on.   Really just kind of focusing on playing well next week in Waste Management.  
   
 Q.   Is it possible to play at Riviera at all?   
RICKIE FOWLER:   Not sure yet.   Still deciding.   I have WGC after that in Tucson and another WGC coming up in Doral.   I've got to stay rested to play, but we'll see.   If we don't make it to Riviera this year, we'll obviously be back very soon.  
   
 Q.   Did you get to golf with Jerry West at all on that one?   
RICKIE FOWLER:   I haven't.   I speak to Jerry every once in a while.   He's a good friend, lot of fun to be around.   Obviously, shows his support to the tournament and to Southern California.   Unfortunately, it's tough to play everything.   You can't if you want to play well all year.   
But like I said, if I don't make it there this year, I'll definitely be back in the future.  
   
 Q.   I was going to say any thoughts on Tiger at all and what he did today?   
RICKIE FOWLER:   Obviously, he was there to win.   Probably very disappointed with his finish, but not a bad week.   He finished third, and definitely I would feel that he's going to get a lot out of it.   He hit the ball very well.   Didn't putt very well, I guess.   I know the first round at least.   But he'll be fine.  
   
 Q.   Kyle and you played in Walker Cup together.   What impressed you about him when you were on the Walker Cup?   
RICKIE FOWLER:   He can hit the ball and he can hit it hard.   There are a lot of guys out here that hit it pretty long, but he's got kind of a sneaky gear in him if he really wants to pull it out.   
Other than that, he's very solid.   He flies the ball nicely.   I heard he's been driving it in the fairway, and when you're playing in the short grass out here, it definitely makes for a huge difference.   He's making the course as easy as is possible.  
   
 Q.   Is he a quiet guy?   He's been really quiet with us and not much to say.   Was he that way on the tee?   
RICKIE FOWLER:   A little bit, but once you get to know Kyle‑‑ I've known him for a while, played junior golf with him and stuff.   Get him in a comfortable setting when he's around his buddies, I wouldn't say he's exactly quiet.   But he's normally very‑‑ he's very humble and at the same time he's‑‑  
   
 Q.   Confident?   
RICKIE FOWLER:   Yeah, he's very confident.   He puts a lot of work in, so no shortage on that end.   So it's definitely showing and paying off for him right now.  
   
 Q.   Can I ask you about the North course.   They're talking about making alterations to it to kind of freshen it up.   What would you do with the North course?   Where are the priorities?   
RICKIE FOWLER:   Well, I think that it's in really good shape.   Obviously, they get it set up for the tournament really nicely.   I think for the most part they've added some tees and might be able to reposition a couple bunkers and mess around with a couple of the greens.   But I think it's just kind of‑‑ I don't know how you say it, but just minor maintenance from the changes that they've done, just lengthening it.   
They can make it a little bit more‑‑ I think some of the bunkers might be in some different spots from where today where everyone's hitting them.   I don't think they need to make any major changes.   It's a big part of the tournament to be able to play both.   I don't think it will make it any harder.   Guys kind of get a break playing the North and the South.  
   
 Q.   You guys don't mind that?   There's such a disparity between the two, but is that not a bad thing?   
RICKIE FOWLER:   It's definitely gotten a lot closer than it used to be.   It used to be short.   Guys are still lighting it up.   You get greens that are receptive and rolling good, guys are going to find a way to shoot low.   I would say if they do any changes, they would be minor.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT