DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 3, 2011
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Let's talk about this round today. 3-under yesterday but 4-under today. Compare the two if you would. 
 RICKIE FOWLER: Both I got off to a good start. I played well on my front nine, so I guess best ball between the two rounds would have been really good. Like I said, today I got off to a good start on the front nine here and just kind of, I guess, hit the brakes. I was trying to keep things going but struggled hitting fairways, and obviously it's tough making birdies out here and even pars when you're not hitting the fairway.

 Q. How do the sight lines set up on this golf course for you?
 RICKIE FOWLER: There's a couple tough tee shots for me. Other than that, I like the golf course. There's a lot of birdies out there. It's in great shape. The greens are rolling good. Really just trying to give myself a look at birdie and go from there.

 Q. You're actually in very good position heading into the weekend. 
 RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, off to a good start. In the first two rounds, obviously you can't really win it, but put ourselves in good position to give ourselves a chance going into tomorrow and hopefully put ourselves in position for Monday. 

 Q. Just comments on your round today if you can. 
 RICKIE FOWLER: Off to a good start, just slowed down a bit the last ten holes or so. Played well, game feels good. I just struggled getting the ball in the fairways the last ten holes, and it made it really tough to score. I made some good up-and-downs and kept the round going, and put myself in good position for the weekend.

 Q. Talk about playing with Bubba, how you guys might interact. 
 RICKIE FOWLER: I saw him finally sneak up there towards the top later in my round. He made an eagle there at 7, which jumped him up. Obviously he played well today, so hopefully we can keep that going through the weekend and have some fun.

 Q. Can you take us through that stretch where you made all those birdies?
 RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, I hit a lot of good shots. I made a pretty long putt on 3; knocked it up on the fringe on No. 4, so basically a two-putt for birdie there; and then par-5, 7, chipped it up, gimme for birdie; and then I made another good putt on 8. Nothing too special. Kept the round going on the back nine with a good short game and really just put ourselves in good position for the weekend. 

 Q. How has the fan reception here in New England been for you?
 RICKIE FOWLER: Fans have always been great up here. Up in the Northeast the fans are definitely -- they love sporting events. It's fun to play up here. It's nice to have a good following here.

 Q. Talk a little bit about the close calls you've had in big tournaments this year and what you might have learned. 
 RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, I've been playing well the last two and a half, three months or so. I've put myself in position a few times and in contention, finished tied for second at the WGC, finished fifth at the Open Championship, so it's been nice to be back in contention and to feel the nerves, get the juices flowing. Looking forward to playing well this weekend and putting myself in position to win. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT