BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 15, 2011
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Can we get your thoughts about your round? Not a bad start.   
 RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, I didn't play all that great here last year, so it was big for me to go out and hit some good shots, get off to a good start. 2-under is definitely a good start. I missed a couple short putts out there, but other than that, played well. You know, I needed a good start here, so happy about it.  
  
  Q. How cognizant are you of where you stand in the FedExCup?   
 RICKIE FOWLER: I know there's a lot riding on this week, but for the most part I'm just focusing on playing good golf, and today the biggest thing was just getting off to a solid start and getting the tournament started. There's a lot of things that can come out of this week, but for the most part I've just got to go play golf, play well and worry about that first.  
  
  Q. How does the golf course set up for you, and how much do you like it? Obviously some guys like it more than others.   
 RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, actually I'm liking it more and more. Last year it was tough to like it, not playing well, and the condition of the course wasn't great. This year it's in great shape, and it's a fun course to play. You've definitely got to be on top of your game, you've got to drive the ball well and have good distance control. I feel like it's going to fit my game really well, I've just got to play well this week and see where that puts us.  
  
  Q. Anything in the round kind of get you going today?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: Started off, I made two pars and I hit it close on 12, ended up missing it, but I made some good swings early, so it was nice to just kind of get things flowing and know that the swing was producing shots that I was looking for.   
  
  Q. Do you have to have tunnel vision to just think about this week and not all the other stuff that's going on?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, I try not to think a whole lot about what else there is. I try and keep it as simple as possible. Obviously I am aware of where I stand on a lot of things, but I think there's a lot more for me to think about out here playing this golf course. It's not easy. You've got to play well to get your way around. I'm focusing on a lot just getting around the course on a daily basis that I really don't have a whole lot of time to think about other things.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT