RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 22, 2011
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Do you like where you stand right now? 
 RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, I do. I was kind of sideways today. So I liked how I got it in. Didn't drive the ball as well as I did yesterday. You know, got it around, scored very well. So I'm happy with where I'm at considering some of the shots I hit off the tee today. 
 You know, I finally made some good swings there at the end, so I definitely got some confidence for the weekend and in a good spot for the weekend.

 Q. (Indiscernible) you make pars and keep making pars a lot of people kind of go backwards?
 RICKIE FOWLER: You shoot even par here and you're going to make up a little ground. If you shoot under par, you're going to pass people. 
 A.K. just got it going sideways a little bit, and out here, there's no faking it. You've got to hit the ball in the fairway and stay out of trouble here. He just struggled a little bit today, so hopefully he'll move on. 
 I think he's playing next week. But like I said, you can't fake it around this place.

 Q. I think it was on 15 the par-4, you hit the driver. Talk about the aggressiveness? 
 RICKIE FOWLER: There were a couple of holes that give you some options, and the rough is thick. But if you're close enough to the green and there isn't a tough pin location, then you're able to chop your way around the rough with a wedge. 
 So, yeah, on some of the shorter holes I was able to push it up there and take advantage of getting a shorter club in my hand, even if it was in the rough. 
 But, yeah, it's a tough course. I was trying to push it a little bit and play fairly aggressive. Other than that, just trying to keep it on the fairways as much as possible. But we played out of the thick stuff quite a bit today.

 Q. This is completely different from what you played last week. Different golf entirely, but the fact that you played so well last week, can that momentum carry over even though the course couldn't be more different? 
 RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, definitely. You've still got to hit a solid golf shot. Wherever you're playing, if you're going to play good and be in contention, you're going to be hitting the ball where you're looking and making a few putts. Still carrying that over to this week. 
 I played well in AT&T and coming in here I've hit a lot of good golf shots the past few weeks and made some putts. It's what you have to do around here.

 Q. What are your thoughts on the boys in orange there following you around? I'm sure you couldn't miss them. 
 RICKIE FOWLER: No, it's tough to miss. I kind of get to see what I look like on Sunday and see how much I stand out. It's cool. It's great to have good supporters and good fans out here. 
 We definitely had a really big following today. Not as many people made it out yesterday, but with it being a Friday in the afternoon, we had a big crowd. It's always fun to play in front of supportive fans.

 Q. Is there more pressure with a big following like this? 
 RICKIE FOWLER: Yes and no. I mean, they're just here to watch me play, whether it's good or bad. Obviously, they want to see me play well, and I want to play well in front of them, but I'm still playing my own game and I have my own expectations. Not worrying too much about what's going on outside the ropes and playing my game.

 Q. Did you know you had this many fans? 
 RICKIE FOWLER: I think it's a combination. I know A.K. had some fans out there. But we had a big following today. It was nice to see and hopefully we'll get some good crowds over the weekend.

 Q. We are just talking a little bit to Lee Janzen and he was talking about the past successes. And I know a lot of people have compared this to a U.S. Open course. Do you have any memories of watching him as you were growing up in some of those big tournaments? 
 RICKIE FOWLER: Not a whole lot. I didn't watch a whole lot of golf growing up. I love to just play, so I'd see him around a little bit. Obviously saw him in Tin Cup. I didn't watch a lot of golf as a kid.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT