WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 5, 2011
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Great round, a lot of birdies, an eagle, a couple pars mixed in a with a couple bogeys. Talk about the day as a whole.   
 RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, overall it was a lot of fun today. Enjoyed playing alongside Matteo. Other than that, I had a couple mistakes out there, made four bogeys, but a lot of positives, a lot of good things came out of today, made some good putts. Building some confidence going into the weekend.  
  
  Q. How would you describe your second nine of golf today?   
 RICKIE FOWLER: Well, it was kind of the whole day was a little up and down. I got off to a start, I think I made three pars and that was kind of my biggest stretch there.   
 After that, it was kind of just go, stop for a second, go, stop for a second. But it's fun. It's always nice to know that making a lot of birdies is a good thing. There's always something good to take out of it. I just happened to make a couple of bad swings and mistakes there that cost me a couple strokes, but hopefully we'll set those aside for the weekend and move on.  
  
  Q. What value do you place in bounce back, in that stat, and the meaning you affix to it?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: I love it. You know, it gives me something to shoot for when I make a bogey. Put that behind you, go out. And it seems like there's a lot of times where I come back from a bogey and make birdie. But there's not many better feelings than coming off of making bogey or double, something like that, and coming right back with a birdie and kind of getting things started over again.   
  
  Q. Is there a different vibe -- a lot of the media that are here this week is because of Tiger frankly, and it seems like guys like you that have the charisma and the game to back it up are not as fearful of the guy as you used to be. Do you sense you're more focused on your game? Particularly you, you don't seem like you even care about what's going on with Tiger?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, I've been playing well, and it's nice to be in the position I am this past month or so. I've been playing good golf and putting myself in contention.   
 But it is nice to have Tiger back. But it's not something where I'm out there worrying about what he's doing. Definitely you can feel the energy he's bringing out, a bunch of people, he definitely draws some crowds. And it's nice to be competing against him again, and hopefully he plays well. It's good for the game. We need him. And like I said, he's fun to have around.   
 But I'm focusing on what I'm trying to do, and we'll see what happens for the rest of the week.  
  
  Q. And in winning, if he's playing at a high level, you've got to admit, it gives a little more cache to the victory?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: Definitely. He's one of the best that's ever lived and played the game. If you happen to beat him when he's playing well and in contention, yeah, it's a big accomplishment. Obviously I don't fear him, but I definitely have a lot of respect for him and who he is and his game. Hopefully he plays well and we can see him come up this weekend.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT