THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 17, 2011
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RICKIE FOWLER: I got off to a good start, actually, and had a couple looks at birdie, middle of my round, and really couldn't get them to go and made a couple bogeys late that obviously hurt my chances there. All in all, awesome tournament, had a lot of fun, love playing over here, and had a good time with Thomas today. 

 Q. Fun getting into the mix in a major, especially over here?
 RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, I really haven't been in contention come Sunday in a major, so definitely felt nice. I felt really good today. It's been two solid tournaments in a row for me. I put myself in the last group at AT&T and then here another good week. A lot of positives, and felt good out there today, just hit a couple putts if they would have went in, could have got some momentum going. Just struggled with that. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 RICKIE FOWLER: Dustin really doesn't think about a whole lot. I don't think he's going to be too worried about it. He's someone that gets over things pretty quickly. He's a great player. I love the way he plays the game. He can hit the ball a long ways, and I wouldn't worry about Dustin. He'll be fine.

 Q. How about summarising the week from your standpoint, just overall impressions and thoughts about how you played?
 RICKIE FOWLER: I played great. Obviously we were in a tough draw, Thursday and Friday had some tough conditions and felt like I played through those nicely. Yesterday put up a great round. Today didn't play bad, just no birdies, a couple bogeys, and I made some good par saves out there and kept myself in for a good finish. All in all, it was a fun week being over here. 
 I love playing links golf because I'm able to kind of show a little bit of my game and hit some shots around the course that I don't get to hit in the States a whole lot. It's fun for me to be able to use my imagination and play the game a little bit differently and how it's meant to be played over here.

 Q. When you're able to compete into the final day, into the final holes in a major, can you talk about that?
 RICKIE FOWLER: It's awesome. I haven't really been in contention in a major yet, so to do that here and to play two solid weeks in a row, and obviously a major is a little bit different than a normal Tour event, so I am obviously pleased with where my game is right now and looking forward to getting on with the rest of the year.

 Q. You're trying to win your first Tour event, Dustin is trying to win his first major. What are the parallels there or the challenges, similar challenges?
 RICKIE FOWLER: Well, today I was trying to win both. I mean, obviously a major is another tournament. You've got to put yourself in position to win on Sunday, and I mean, you have to look at it, I think, the same as any other tournament. You've got to beat the rest of the guys. It's the same at a PGA TOUR event, European Tour event or a major. Just happens to be that there's four tournaments that stick out a little more than others. I think it was Jack Nicklaus that used to say that majors are the easiest to win. But I think for some it's just getting over the hurdle for that first. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT