MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 13, 2019
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Talk to us a little bit about your patience level this week. Third day in a row you start off with a bogey before you made any birdies but you've gotten yourself to 7‑under. 
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, I'm happy. We have done a good job of just kind of hanging in there. I mean, you look at the start of the golf course, kind of the first seven holes and it's not easy and I think the hole that I played one of the worst out here is number 3 and it's arguably one of the easiest par‑4s. 
So it just shows you how any hole can jump up and get you if you're not on or miss your spot. 
So, no, it's been good, I've done a good job of just staying in the moment, not getting ahead of myself, not getting down and kind of just continuing to push forward.

Q. At 7‑under par, what will be your mindset heading into tomorrow?
RICKIE FOWLER: Well as of right now 11's the lead, that could end up being a little lower here soon, but so we'll be four, five, maybe six back. I know I'm going to have to put up a solid round of golf tomorrow, but the biggest thing for me is just go get off to a good start, hit a bunch of fairways and let myself attack from there. We have been dealing with mud balls pretty much all week, so I'm going to pray for clean golf balls in the fairway and we'll go at it from there. 
But obviously it's been amazing week here, I think to dodge the storms as much as we have and hopefully we can play early like we are tomorrow and get this thing in before anything hits.

Q. You've been scrambling really well, what's been the key to that?
RICKIE FOWLER: Just taking my time, not rushing anything, it's helped that I putted well all week been hitting my lines, good speed, and I didn't hit a great putt there at the last today, but other than that just doing a good job of managing myself, the space between my ears and staying in the moment and making sure I take just a little extra time to make sure I'm not moving too quickly.

Q. Take us through the birdies at 2, 3 and 4. 
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, it was nice to finally birdie 2. I hadn't done that all week. So I typically hit 3‑wood off the tee there, left‑to‑right wind, I don't really draw driver, so just laying up short of the bunkers is usually my play there. So just hit 3‑wood, 3‑wood down there as far down and to the right, pitched it up there to a foot, kick‑in birdie. 
3, drove it down with the pin being a little bit further back than the front area and hit that one up to a foot. That one's easy.
And 4, one of the better swings all day. It was a good 5‑iron number and just hit 5‑iron right at it and had about 15 feet and it was nice to see that one go in. I hit a perfect putt and it kind of got things going.

Q. How about the chip‑in on 13 for eagle, how big was that?
RICKIE FOWLER: It's a very makeable chip but it's also one if you're not careful and don't hit it right it makes you look really bad. You could end up with 40 feet really quickly. You have to pitch it into a slight upslope and then have it just check on top of the ridge and release to the hole. And if you miss that top or miss, kind of like mishit your chip, it gets going by the hole with any speed and there she goes. 
So I was happy with that. I hit it perfect, I knew it was on line and I was just hoping that I had it read right.

Q. You're a fan favorite around here. What's it like being an idol for those kids?
RICKIE FOWLER: That's awesome. From early on having the younger kids following me and then that continuing on and being able to be someone that is a role model and kids look up to, it's pretty cool. I remember the guys that I would look up to and in different sports growing up and to actually be in that position now, it's awesome. So I enjoy it, it's fun getting to spend time with junior golfers and the younger generation and for me one of my main jobs and goals is to help grow the game, so enjoying it.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT