THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE INSURANCE
June 2, 2011
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   RICKIE FOWLER: Hitting the ball well and came out today, a little up-and-down, but had a good stretch during the round there.  
  
  Q. Talk about that stretch of 13, 14, 15, you didn't let it get away and you finished strong.   
 RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, made a few birdies there, made a couple good swings, rolled in some putts, had a chip-in and then I holed out from the fairway with a 9-iron.   
 Yeah, 16, 17 -- 16 I actually made a good swing off the tee, hit a good bunker shot and not exactly the greatest putt, pulled it a bit.   
 17 was just a poor iron shot from the fairway and just had to remind myself that I was playing well and swinging the club well, and coming to 18, to close with a par on a tough hole, and then a birdie is a bonus.  
  
  Q. Chris Riley said these were great conditions today. Would you agree with that?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, they were. Good scoring conditions. Greens were soft enough if you were in the fairway you could fire at the pins and you could make a lot of birdies out there today. Unfortunately, I had too many bogeys, but they were great conditions. Course is in great shape.   
  
  Q. So you're rooting for Oklahoma State over Ohio State?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: Of course. I've got to hope that Coach Darr does well because obviously he was assistant coach when I was at Oklahoma State and we've had some good times together, especially here last year. Pulling for them to do well, but I'm a Cowboy.  
  
  Q. You played so well here last year and then you come out and fired a pretty low score the first round. Is there a certain confidence you're feeling from the course? What suits you about this place?   
 RICKIE FOWLER: I mean, you've got to get the ball in the fairway out here, and I felt like I did a pretty good job of that today. I struggled with the driver a little bit, but other clubs off the tee, I was putting the ball in play, and that's what you've got to do out here, get the ball in play and make a few putts, and it definitely helps to come off some good rounds last year.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT