MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2011
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q. Talk about what happened today. 
 RICKIE FOWLER: It wasn't what we wanted. A couple bad breaks, but hopefully it will even out tomorrow, we'll get some good ones and get things going the right way. 
 Obviously, like I said, not what we wanted on Saturday, we didn't want to move backward, we wanted to either maintain or move up. But tomorrow maybe we can get some good breaks and get things going the right way and put in a good round and see if we can kind of back door with a good finish.

 Q. Bad lie in the bunker on 7?
 RICKIE FOWLER: Well it was flat, but there wasn't much underneath it. So I felt like I -- with my drive I was trying to hit it in the bunker, that's all I was trying to do. I wanted to leave myself a bunker shot where I had a chance at making par and at worst make bogey. And everything felt fine, but not much underneath it. 
 So I hit that and there was actually some sand in the back bunker. So, no, I mean, you're going to get some bad breaks, but like I said, I want to try to get a good round tomorrow.

 Q. Can you talk about playing with Freddie at the Masters and how that was overall. 
 RICKIE FOWLER: A couple times I had to kind of just sit back and remind myself we're playing the Masters on Saturday and I'm getting to play with Freddie, someone who I've looked up to since I was a little kid. And so, obviously not the round I wanted, but I was just out there a couple times reminding myself to try to calm me down a little bit and relax.

 Q. Was there any shot that he hit today, I know his back's not good and he struggled a little bit, was there any shot that he hit that you were just in awe that he was 51 and he could hit that kind of shot?
 RICKIE FOWLER: Well when he's hitting driver right next to me, at times he hit it past me or I might sneak one by him, but that's pretty good. He can still move the ball. 
 And as I said, it's just cool being around him, being able to play on a Saturday at the Masters with him. Like I said, hopefully we can put together a good one tomorrow.

 Q. How long does it take a 22 year old to get over this round?
 RICKIE FOWLER: I think a couple more minutes. 

 Q. Is that it really?
 RICKIE FOWLER: I'll be all right. No, the game feels really good. Obviously, like I said, I got a couple bad breaks and then made a couple bad swings that cost me and some of those things just happened at the wrong time. 
 So other than that, I hit some good shots, still a lot of positives to take away from the round, and I feel like I'm playing really well. I feel like if I can get out tomorrow and not bogey the first hole and kind of get things going that -- we didn't have a good start today, but I just got to get that going and keep it going tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT