WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 5, 2011
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Tough start, 2-over par and six birdies on your way home. What changed?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: I actually made about a 12-footer for bogey on my third hole, No. 12, kind of stepped over that putt and managed to get that in the hole and kind of get things moving. I ended up making some good birdies to kind of smooth things out.   
  
  Q. Nice start, 4-under 68, great scoring conditions this afternoon but still a tough golf course.   
 RICKIE FOWLER: No, this is definitely a tough golf course. If you end up on the wrong side of the hole or not hitting fairways it can step up and bite you. Started off, made bogeys on my second and third hole, and that's a good example of how it can get you. So I kind of had to step up and get things going from then on.  
  
  Q. They say these greens are a lot like Augusta; you have to put them in the right spots. Is that true, and how were the greens today?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: I think that's very true. The greens were a little bit receptive today. They're a little slower than what I'm used to seeing here, so it didn't play up to its exact potential, but no, it's definitely similar to Augusta in the way that you can't be on certain sides of the hole.  
  
  Q. And still, you're four back; Bill Haas shoots a 64, a pretty impressive round?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, it is. Obviously, like I said, I had two bogeys early. I would have liked to have chased down Bill today, but that's a great round today. Kind of early in the tournament I felt like I put myself in good position. Hopefully I can go play well tomorrow and get into the weekend.  
  
  Q. A little bit of a slow start to the round but a nice 68 to finish up. Comments?   
 RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, today was a slow start but nice to get in with 4-under. Tough golf course here. We had some decent scoring conditions today. Bill Haas came in with 64 so it was definitely out there. Nice to get out there and get a good start and hopefully get out there tomorrow and put myself in good position for this weekend.   
  
  Q. What do you think of this course and how it sets up for you?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: This course is one of my favorites that we play all year. It's a lot of fun to play. You've got to drive the ball well, got to put yourself in position to hit the greens and control your balls because if you end up on the wrong side of the hole, you're going to walk away with a tough par or making bogey. Positioning and ball-striking are key this week.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT