MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 14, 2019
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Rickie, how do you assess your round?  
RICKIE FOWLER: It was fun. Obviously kind of a little short. But it wasn't easy out there today with the storms coming in soon, the wind kind of picking up as the day went on. And this place is hard without wind, just trying to hit your spots and control the golf ball. So I enjoyed it. I love playing in the wind. And I think I missed a couple good looks, on 10. I thought at 11 had a really good shot. And then the bogey on 12 set me pretty far back. But from there I was really just trying to birdie on home. 16, I'm not sure how that went right. I hit exactly how I wanted to. And I'm not sure if I maybe caught some pine straw on the face coming up 18 and the ball didn't turn out of there. But I'm happy with it. As I said, just need to get myself a little closer with nine to go.  
   
 Q. You really needed that one on 16.   
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, I needed at least to get to 13. Obviously Tiger is in control right now, but I figured 13 would be a pretty good spot. 13 or 14 is where‑‑ I wasn't even paying attention to where I was at, I was just trying to birdie every hole coming in.   
   
 Q. If it stays the same and Tiger winning, how unprecedented is this comeback for Tiger?  
RICKIE FOWLER: I saw kind of a light at the end of the tunnel when I spent some time with him a couple of falls ago, seeing him back healthy and able to play. Obviously a lot easier said than done. You have to go out there and actually do it. But I saw the possibility there with what he was doing at home, how he was feeling, how he was swinging. It's pretty cool. Obviously it's better for all of us having him play well and seeing if he can get this one done. I like his chances. It's pretty impressive.  
   
 Q. How about your chances moving forward? You've had a lot of success here.   
RICKIE FOWLER: I love this place. I've got a jacket coming soon. I love being here. I feel like I've gotten to know this place really well and gave myself a good chance multiple times here. And just a matter of time. I know I can get it done here.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT