WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 5, 2011
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You tied the course record on the back nine with a 29. What got into you?   
 RICKIE FOWLER: I started off with a missed putt on 10, but right from there we made a good putt on 11 and got it going. It was fun.   
  
  Q. Tell me about that eagle on 13.   
 RICKIE FOWLER: Good drive, hit a nice 5-iron in there, and as soon as I hit it, it was the way I wanted to hit it, and it turned out to be about eight feet, hit a good putt and it went in the middle.  
  
  Q. Tell me about that walk through the tunnel onto the 16th tee and then you hit a good shot there. What was that atmosphere like for you?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: It's awesome. They've always treated me well there -- well, they booed me yesterday in the bunker, but I deserved that. But the fans out here are awesome. I love playing 16. Waste Management does it up right with everyone getting in there. It's pretty cool.  
  
  Q. I could call you the Green Hornet today, but what was that putt like? After you hit a great shot you've got to be a little jacked up?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: I basically had to just pick a spot, step up and hit it. Good thing I hit it with good speed or else it wouldn't have gone in.  
  
  Q. What's the plan for the rest of the day?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: Go kick back and get some food tonight.  
  
  Q. What did you do yesterday? You had pretty much the day off.   
 RICKIE FOWLER: I came out, had some food, and then got a good workout in with Chris Noss, went and hit some balls, chipped and putted a bit and got some work in, so it paid off.  
  
  Q. Super Bowl tomorrow, who do you like and what's the score?   
 RICKIE FOWLER: I don't know.   
  
  Q. Green Bay or Pittsburgh? You're wearing green today.   
 RICKIE FOWLER: I think Aaron Rodgers is going to pull it off.  
  
  Q. Do you have a score for me?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: I think they're going to sneak it out by three.  
  
  Q. 24-21, something like that?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: Somewhere around there.  
  
  Q. How big was it to get into double digits?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: Well, going in today I got off to not the quickest of starts. Obviously I saw some of the scoreboards and knew that I was around the cut line early on and basically had to step on the gas and get going.   
 I made the turn at 2 and then got things rolling once I made a putt on 11.   
  
  Q. You're one of the fan favorites around here. Do you kind of rally around that?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: You've got to embrace the fans here. They either love or hate you. No, they're great. I love playing here. It's one of my favorite tournaments here at Waste Management, and obviously, like I said, you've got to embrace it.   
  
  Q. After two rounds how are you feeling about where you are currently?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: Right where I want to be. Obviously I want to have a chance going into the last two rounds and most importantly the last round, so we'll try and go out tomorrow and play well and get ourselves in contention for the last round.  
  
  Q. Obviously the weather a little nicer today?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, it was a little chilly this morning, but I didn't want to have a sweater on. It was a little chilly starting out, but it warmed up nicely.  
  
  Q. How much does drawing on the experience of last year being in contention on Sunday help?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: It definitely helps, not just being in contention here but some other places. It definitely helps for the next time that you are in contention. The other thing that's helped me is my Ryder Cup experience.  
  
  Q. How did you maintain focus on that putt on 16 with all the pandemonium going on in the background?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: Like I said, I love 16. I love playing in there. It doesn't matter if they're screaming and yelling or if they're dead silent. It's kind of what I live for. I love playing in front of people and love the crowd.  
  
  Q. How many hats did you take with you down there?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: I'm not sure. I put as many as I could fit in the bag.   
  
  Q. The time off, does that kind of mess with your schedule a little bit, three days to play two rounds of golf?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: A little bit. It obviously throws you out of your normal routine, but the delays definitely do make it a little bit tougher. But you find out your time and go play when you've got to play and rest when you can.   
  
  Q. Are you starting to really like playing in this town?   
 RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, I mean, I've played well out here. Like I said, I love this tournament and what Waste Management has done with it and the crowd, like I said. I've playing well in this tournament, so might as well keep coming back.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT