FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 28, 2011
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. If you could comment on the day?   
 RICKIE FOWLER: Got off to a good start. I made a good putt for par on the first hole so that gave me a little momentum. But other than that, the driver was just a little bit off today, little trouble with that. Missed a couple short ones -- I shouldn't say too short -- but missed a couple putts that I think I could can have had.   
 Other than that, I'm pleased with how I got it in the house, and I came back with two good birdies on 16 and 17. It's not playing easy. The fairways are a bit bigger on the South, but I think it's a little more penal when you do miss the fairway because the holes are a lot longer. You're not able to hit wedges into the green.   
 All in all pleased. First tournament of the year out, two solid rounds. Made the cut going into the weekend, and definitely in a good position for the weekend.  
  
  Q. 16, 17, you made birdies, so when you're coming in, are you thinking 18 to birdie the hole? But what are you thinking with three holes to go?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: No, I didn't feel like I wasted a whole lot. I gave a few back when I made bogeys. But I said you do miss fairways, but the holes are a bit longer. When you have a club in your hand, it's not easy to get out of the rough.   
 But I had some extra birdies today that I missed a few opportunities. But coming into 16, 17, 18, I was trying to get at least one, possibly two. Just happened to make a good putt on 16.   
 17, actually, it's the same one I made double two last year on Sunday, so it owed me one.  
  
  Q. So that was in your mind a little bit?   
 RICKIE FOWLER: I knew it was similar, but after I hit my 7-iron in there, it ended up being about 7 feet or so. Joe told me it was the exact same pin as last year, so I guess not much I could do to miss that putt. It had to go in.  
  
  Q. What did you hit in there last year?   
 RICKIE FOWLER: 7-iron I was a little bit shorter. I was hitting kind of a soft 7-iron in there and fanned it a bit and ended up long right. A tough lie, left a chip short.  
  
  Q. How do you regroup after 13? Your putt wasn't where you wanted it on 13?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, lag putt was tough. I had about three and a half feet left. And I actually hit a good putt, it's just as soon as I hit it, it jumped left and never had a chance.   
 But it's going to happen. You're going to hit good putts and you're going to miss. Putts are going to bump out here. I grew up on Poana. I love Poana, but it's going to happen.   
 The hole was set up with the drive. It didn't hit. It was close. I only missed the fairway by a little bit, and it kicked right in the bunker. A bunker shot laid up in the rough and kind of just rattled from there.  
  
  Q. So 14 you come back and leave your first putt short but then you make a (Indiscernible)?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: That gave me momentum on the last two holes. I hit it a little softer when I was hitting the two. Came up a good eight feet short. It was a tough putt. I didn't know exactly a whole lot what it was going to do. It looked pretty straight, and it went in.  
  
  Q. Do you feel rest at all, your second day out?   
 RICKIE FOWLER: I feel good. Like I said yesterday, it feels good to be back out here. I feel a little bit of the jitters. I feel some nerves over some of the shots, but that's what I live for.   
 I'm glad I'm back out. This is a great place to start here at Farmers and Torrey. It's right in my backyard, so I'm looking forward to the weekend.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, yeah, hit some good shots the first couple of days. If I can get my driver straightened out, I think I can play really well this weekend and put myself in good position.  
  
  Q. Is the driver a little bit of problem?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: No, just making some rough swings a little bit. Little bit of confidence. It is a new driver. I did play it at the Shark Shootout. But my driver that I had that I was playing for two and a half years finally cracked, so I had to work into the new driver.   
 It fits me really well. I love it, just wrestling with it, it's not the driver's fault, it's mine. It's a new Titleist.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT