CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK CLASSIC
November 14, 2010
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Rickie, let's start with today. You turn onto the back side. Did you start looking at boards at all?
 RICKIE FOWLER: I always look at boards. You know, there's not too many boards on the front nine, so I didn't know exactly how everyone was doing, but I'm usually pretty well aware of what's going on. 
 I like to know my position, and you know, I don't think it really affects my play so much. I like to know when I'm behind. Gets me fired up a bit and makes me want to make birdies. 
 Best front nine we've turned in the last three days, and was looking to make a few more birdies on the back, but still a solid day of golf. 

 Q. I saw it. You made the birdie on 12. You drove it into that greenside bunker on 13. I thought that was a missed opportunity. You make the birdie on 14. That underbelly of the golf course, did you feel like you left at least one out there?
 RICKIE FOWLER: Well, definitely there on -- what's that, 13, the drivable -- close to drivable. I hit one pretty good and just came short. 
 Hit a fairly good bunker shot. Just came out a little bit hotter than I thought it was. But kind of stole one on the hole before on the par-3. Tucked in and I made a good birdie there. 
 You know, we did leave some out there, but like I said, it was a pretty solid round of golf for a Sunday.

 Q. I know you're going to have time to reflect on the year. Give me an immediate thought, though. Is this the end of the regular season for you? It's been a long year, great year. Just give me a thought about the whole year, what it means to you, treasurer what you've already accomplished?
 RICKIE FOWLER: It's been awesome, obviously, to go out and get my PGA TOUR card right after turning pro was big, and then to come out and secure my card for next year early on in the season was awesome. 
 It made me, I guess, free up a bit for the rest of the season, gave me some more opportunities to go through FedExCup, and then to get picked for the Ryder Cup team. So the only thing that was really left out is a win. I guess we'll wait and see what happens the last couple holes, and we'll have an outside chance of a playoff, but it's been a great year. Like I said, the only thing we left out was a win.

 Q. All right. Turkey in the new house or is it a little premature?
 RICKIE FOWLER: I think turkey is at the girl friend's house. I think we're doing Christmas at my house with the family, though.

 Q. All right. You have golf to be played, though. What are you going to do? First of all, I know you watched the Cowboy game last night, so Oklahoma State goes to Austin, blows out the Longhorns, so you walked in here this morning with a little spring in your step, didn't you?
 RICKIE FOWLER: It was a great feeling last night. I know Texas hasn't had the greatest of seasons. It's probably one of their worst in a while, but Oklahoma State always has a tough time with Texas. Doesn't matter how well they're playing or how bad they're playing. 
 So that was big for us to pull off that. That was big for our season, and looking forward to the guys playing Kansas; and hopefully I can try and make it up to the game at home.

 Q. Enjoy the rest. You gotta play golf in a couple hours. 
 RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah. I don't know if it's going to be -- I think it may be sooner than that. I think they told us as soon as the last group holes out on 18, we're going to go to a playoff there on 17.

 Q. Thanks. 
 RICKIE FOWLER: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT