CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK CLASSIC
November 10, 2010
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How are you feeling?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: I'm feeling all right. Catching up on a little bit of sleep the last couple of nights.  
  
  Q. What have you learned from traveling overall over with these world-class players which you have over the last few months?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: Well, obviously rest is definitely a key, and you know, taking some days off in between definitely helps out with that.   
 The other part with time zones is learning when to sleep and when not to, but it's been fun to travel and see different parts of the world. It's definitely something I'd like to do a little bit more.  
  
  Q. You've got a tournament within a tournament here, Kodak Challenge, and obviously trying to win this event. Is it a distraction one to the other at all?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: Not really. Obviously I'm going to go out and try and play well, you know, going to try and win a tournament. Obviously that would help out for me to get to Kapalua.   
 But you know, as far as the Kodak Challenge, you're going to try and make birdie and hope Troy doesn't. But hopefully if I make birdie there, it's just going to help me have a better score for the day. So definitely know that when I step up on 17 I'll be thinking about going out and trying to make a birdie there. So it'll be a fun week.   
  
  Q. Rickie, about the Kodak Challenge, kind of give me a sense of what it's like to participate in it.   
 RICKIE FOWLER: Well, it's been fun all year. Started out, I'd say about halfway through is when I started to think about it. I was in the lead, had a couple of times where I had a couple-shot lead. And it's been pretty fun to obviously try and make birdies on a week with basis on a certain hole. And up until Troy made that eagle on 16 at Vegas, I was leading for a lot of the year. So it was pretty cool.   
 It's different to be one shot back, and like I say, I'm going to try and make birdie at a time I hope Troy doesn't. But three of us here that have a good shot of winning it, and you know, hopefully that comes to a good shot.  
  
  Q. Does that surprise you after checking it out midway through the year as big a deal it is now that we're here?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: No. I knew it was a big deal. I mean it's a million bucks. So obviously it got me here to Disney and has me participating one shot back on the last hole.   
 So I think Kodak is pretty happy with the way it's played out, obviously with a few guys in the hunt coming down to the last hole. I think it's going to be a fun and hopefully interesting week.  
  
  Q. Beginning about this time last year you became pretty quite an attraction for golf. Besides just the golf part, what has been the hard part this year? Staying grounded, distractions, that type thing?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: I'd say for me, I mean we've played a lot more this year than we've planned on. With playing well early, it got me into a lot more events that I wasn't expecting to be in. So biggest thing for me is kind of making sure I've stayed rested.   
 This has been a long stretch toward the end of the year that we didn't plan on having. But it's been an awesome year. Obviously looking back a year ago from where I came from to where I am now, it's pretty cool, and I don't feel any different. I'm still out here trying to win every tournament that I play in, and you know, ultimately still working on getting our first win out here.  
  
  Q. Why in the world this 30,000-mile stretch? Obviously the Ryder Cup was a bonus. You weren't prepared for that in the schedule, but why are you doing this to yourself?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: It really hasn't been that bad. I went to Frys in Vegas. They gave me a spot last year, and owed it to them for sending out a helping hand last year for giving me a spot there. And went back and had some fun weeks there.   
 Malaysia was a great opportunity for me, and I ended up getting into HSBC during the Vegas week. So it's kind of hard to turn down a WGC event. And when you're playing for a million bucks with one hole, you know, there's some good percentages there. So I might as well come play for a million bucks.   
 So there's some traveling that's involved, but it's been fun, and it'll be nice to get some rest after Skills Challenge, which I do have Monday and Tuesday.   
  
  Q. Rickie, you have exploded onto the scene this last year. This is your last chance to win in 2010. Do you feel some internal pressure?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: Not really. I think we've had a pretty good year without the win so far. Obviously if I'm in contention and have a chance on Sunday, it would be a bonus if I could get myself in there and obviously win. That would be a way to cap off the year and definitely fill that empty space that is in there, but other than that, it's been a great year.   
 So no, I'm going to go have some fun this week. Obviously showing up on Wednesday, taking some rest the last two days, I'm not exactly coming into it as I normally would an event. Got the same last year, so I feel comfortable. I'm going to go hit a few balls right now and go at it in the morning.  
  
  Q. In this last frequent flyer stretch, have you had a moment or couple of moments where you've sat up and said which time zone am I in, where am I?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: Well, it hasn't been too bad because being in California and Vegas are same time zone. Malaysia and Shanghai are same time zone, so basically all I had to worry about was how far I was from the East or West Coast. We were 15 hours off the West Coast and 12 off the East. But time change kind of threw us for a loop there for a little bit.   
 But no, it hasn't been too bad. It's been tough to stay in contact with some people because of time changes, but it's been fun getting to see different parts of the world.  
  
  Q. And you said you're not 100 percent just trying to get all the rest. Are you 90 percent, 95?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: You know, I feel good with the game. I've played well the last couple months coming off the Ryder Cup, and had some good finishes with Frys and Malaysia, had a good final round at HSBC. So I think the biggest thing, like I said, was talking about is just getting some rest and make sure I was fully rested for this event.  
  
  Q. Have you considered Rookie of the Year? Do you see yourself there?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: I mean I know it's kind of come down to Rory and I. I haven't really worried about it too much. I've been focusing on playing, been traveling a whole lot for me to kind of think about it too much.   
 So you know, what it comes down to it comes down to. I'm not trying to push anyone to vote any way, but definitely, it would be nice, but I think if I went out and won here, that would definitely help.  
  
  Q. What was the dumbest question about your wardrobe you got this year?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: I don't know if I get dumb questions. I think some people ask about the colors or why I wear orange.  
  
  Q. Have you gotten tired of it or do you kind of relish it?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: No. Obviously the clothes are, I guess, doing their job, in a way, getting noticed for what I wear. That's kind of the way I've always been. I like to wear different things, whether it be colors or I guess outfits that other guys wouldn't wear.   
 So the clothes are doing their job, and I've been playing well, so it's worked out all right.  
  
  Q. Are you still going to play miniature golf with Troy over at --  
 RICKIE FOWLER: I think we had to back it up until tomorrow night. But Fantasia is definitely going to get a few rounds in by a couple of guys in the tournament.  
  
  Q. Are you guys playing for a million dollars?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: I don't know if we'll play for a million. We might have to have some wagers, depending on when we play. If we play later in the week, Saturday night or something, we might have to do something, but maybe we'll get a little game going.  
  
  Q. It's been a little over a year, what, 14 months now. I know everybody wants to come out on the TOUR and win. Did you put a win timetable on yourself and is everything okay now or is it time to win?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: I didn't put a timetable or anything on it. I know my first goal out was to secure my card and play well. Other than that, a win's been on my goals list for a while now. And you know, we've had some opportunities, and I've felt more and more comfortable every time I put myself in contention.   
 So I feel like it's around the corner, just I just need to keep putting myself in contention and chances to win on Sunday and it's bound to happen.  
  
  Q. What's the sort of one biggest thing you've taken away from this year, if you can narrow it down to one thing?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: I think it's just kind of learning how to stick around in a tournament, not to get off too quick or too slow. If you kind of just hang around and put up a couple good rounds on the weekend, it can do a lot, obviously. So patience is a big thing.   
 The other thing is time management, with all the travel, and trying not to wear myself out. So talking about rest the last few days, it's going to play a big factor in this week.  
  
  Q. How much did you sleep?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: Actually, I didn't sleep a whole lot. It was more just the down time, relaxing, and I haven't touched a club since I was in China, so we'll see how it works here.  
  
  Q. How much of a break are you taking after Skills Challenge?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: I'll still be on the course probably every day. I still love to play. I'll be working out quite a bit and playing and practicing, but I'm not sure when I'll start up next year. Like I said, it depends here, if I happen to win, then we'll start a little bit earlier than we're planning to.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT