FRYS.COM OPEN
October 16, 2010
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MARK STEVENS: Different course, of course, 3 under 68 today. You found yourself in a different position for tomorrow. That being said, how do you feel about going into the find round? 
 RICKIE FOWLER: I feel good about my final game. That's a good thing. We are a little farther back than last year. Last year we started,I think, five back. 
 And I go coming into this tournament with a chance on Sunday and get myself in a position. I think if we go out tomorrow morning and make some birdies early and get ourselves within striking distance, we will be back.

 Q. (Indiscernible). 
 RICKIE FOWLER: I actually found the hole. I hit a lot of greens today, hit a good amount of fairways. I just wasn't hitting as close as I was yesterday. So made it tough to make some putts and hit a lot of good putts from the front nine. Hit a lot of good putts around the back nine as well. Missed a lot of putts on the lip. 
 Finally, got one to fall there on the 13 so made a couple from there.

 Q. (Question about Rocco Mediate.) 
 RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, a little bit. I was in a playoff to get in the '08 Open at Torrey. We were at the playoff together in Columbus for the fall tournament.

 Q. (Indiscernible). 
 RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, he's awesome. I love being around Rocco. We have been around each other a few times. 
 In the playoff, he stepped up and hit a 9 iron, 3 foot and almost won the Open. 
 Obviously, he's playing well this week, the first two round, and then to back it up today with some solid play. So he will be tough to catch. 
 I think if we get out early and make some birdies, we will get within a distance where we maybe can make a run on the back nine.

 Q. (Indiscernible). 
 RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, like I said, we are in the playoff together to get in. So he goes in, hits a 9-iron 3 feet. And that's how he goes and gets in the Open and plays Monday for the Open title with Tiger.

 Q. What extra hole was that at the playoff? First or --
 RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, it was Number 1, the Scarlet course. I think it was 11 for 8.

 Q. (Indiscernible). 
 RICKIE FOWLER: I mean, it really just kind of depends on what Rocco is doing. Obviously, he is kind of in control of the tournament right now. 
 Like I said, if I go out and make some birdies early, that gets us within -- He sees guys climbing the leaderboard, he is either going to run or do whatever. (Laughter)
 If he is running, he will be tough to catch. So, like I said, I'm going to focus on more of just going out and get off to a good start like I did last year at Fry's and put myself in position.

 Q. You were five back last year. Was it a really quick start? Made it up right away? 
 RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, I started birdie, birdie, par, birdie eagle. Made a hole in one on 5. We got to fix that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT