FRYS.COM OPEN
October 13, 2010
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: You lost in a playoff last year at the Frys.com Open. Had an exciting year. Last year the Fall Series was kind of important for you to kind of get some momentum. You finished T7 in Vegas, and then the playoff loss here. 
 You're just outside of the top 30 on the Money List, which is invites to the Masters and the U.S. Open. What are your goals this week and then for the rest of the Fall Series? 
 RICKIE FOWLER: Well, I think goals going into any week is to go out and put yourself in contention and ultimately have a chance to win. That's what I'm preparing myself for this week, is to have a chance to win on Sunday. 
 Obviously, like you said, the Fall Series was a big part of me getting started on the PGA Tour. With some good finishes at Vegas and then here last year at Frys, gave me the momentum I needed to get through Q-School and have a chance to play on the Tour in 2010.
 THE MODERATOR: You're actually playing for a lot this Fall Series. You've got the Kodak Challenge, and you're tied for the lead. That's $1 million, you know, plus moving up into the top 30. 
 You just got done playing the Kodak Challenge Bowl. What are your thoughts on that? How do you expect to finish out the year with that in mind? 
 RICKIE FOWLER: Well, the Kodak Challenge definitely is on my list of things that I want to do well in. Obviously need to win it to be the guy at the top. So we're looking forward to that, playing the next two weeks, and possibly Disney, if I need to, with the Kodak Challenge. 
 Like I said, we're always trying to play well, so not worrying too much about the Money List, but obviously want to play well and move up and whatever that does. The other thing is moving up world ranking, which Money List and that help out.
 THE MODERATOR: Do you have a plan for an eagle on the Kodak Challenge hole after just playing it? 
 RICKIE FOWLER: Well, they have to move the tees up or I'm going to have to hole a wedge from the back tee. I don't think anyone is going to be getting there from the back tee. It's quite a ways. 
 So if they move it up, there's a good chance of making a two if you knock it on the green just because of the way the back side of the green is sloped right back to you so you can get it in there within makable range. I guess the other way to do it would be just to hole a wedge from the fairway. 
 THE MODERATOR: All right. Thanks a lot. Questions.

 Q. What are your general impressions of CordeValle?
 RICKIE FOWLER: I liked it. Today was the first time I've seen it. It's a good driving course. There are some tight holes, some long holes. The greens were good today. 
 It was nice to see the ball actually take a hop. Ryder Cup was my last event. Wasn't much hopping or rolling going on. It's nice to get it back on some firmer playing surfaces. 
 I think there's a possibility of a lot of birdies out there, but you've got to drive it in the fairway.

 Q. Were you out at the institute yesterday? 
 RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, I went out there for the Frys outing. 

 Q. What did you think of that place?
 RICKIE FOWLER: It was pretty cool. Obviously they got a great piece of property. Course was a lot fun. Weren't many birdies out there being that it's over 7,900 yards, but it was pretty cool to see the place. It's awesome shape. 

 Q. Out there you talked a little bit about your Ryder Cup experience on the course, which certainly was significant. Talk about that experience a little bit. 
 RICKIE FOWLER: The team room and being around the guys was awesome. I felt like I fit right in. I never felt like I was out of place or didn't belong there. You know, it was great getting to know the guys better. 
 You know, I've been around and know a couple of guys, but to be around Tiger and Phil a bit more -- I played with Phil before, but it was the first time I had spent a little bit of time with Tiger. Him and I shot a commercial together earlier in the year.
 But just to be around the whole group, playing ping-pong or video games with Tiger, we had a great time. It was a very close team, and I think we all got to know each other a lot better.

 Q. Didn't seem like there was ever any generation gap on the surface if it. Doesn't sound like it either. 
 RICKIE FOWLER: No, everyone got along really well. From me being the youngest to I can't remember who they finally came up with as being the oldest. 
 No, everyone was having a good time. Like I said, a lot of ping-pong matches, whether it be co-ed or doubles with all the guys or whatever, we were having a great time together.

 Q. Can you compare it a little bit with your Walker Cup experience? That was in Northern Ireland, wasn't it?
 RICKIE FOWLER: 2007 was in Northern Ireland. Last year of at Merion. Yeah, definitely has a lot of similarities. I fed off of how well I played in Walker Cup. 
 Same thing. Team camaraderie is a big issue. Definitely helps the teams play well. The two teams I was on for Walker Cup, we were all really close.
 I guess the early one in '07 I was kind of the young guy, similar to being on the Ryder Cup this year.

 Q. It whole year has been quite a whirlwind for you. I heard you mention Frys as one of the tournaments. You're probably one of the major draws of this tournament. Is that a whole surreal experience for you?
 RICKIE FOWLER: It's pretty cool. And for it to happen this fast -- obviously I wanted to be in this position at some point and to be the best that I can be, ultimately shooting to be the best player in the world at some point.
 But, you know, it's small steps at a time. We've taken quite a big step in the past year. But, no, it's definitely a cool position to be in. I love it. It's awesome to be able to get back to Frys in a way, you know, to play this event. 
 They gave me a spot last year. It doesn't feel like I'm trying to get back, but in a way, I mean being that I am ranked higher now, higher on the Money List, you know, I'm just excited to be here playing again. 
 Obviously different venue, but great people, and it's a great tournament to be involved with.

 Q. Does the Ryder Cup feel bigger than anything else or compare to a major? How does that experience compare to normal tournament play?
 RICKIE FOWLER: It doesn't compare. It's the Ryder Cup. It's a special week. You know, like I said, to be on a team with the other 11 guys, I mean, basically getting the best players from the States and the best players from Europe, and then the feel that you get playing for your country. 
 You know, I got similar things at the Walker Cup, but the Ryder Cup is probably one -- I mean, the biggest stage in golf. 

 Q. In America the Ryder Cup is huge in golf. Over there in Europe, it's like huge throughout society and the culture. Is that a fair comparison?
 RICKIE FOWLER: I think it is bigger over there to them. I mean, it's obviously big here, but it's pretty crazy over there with the fans that come out. They're singing songs and chanting and all kinds of stuff. They live for the Ryder Cup over there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT