BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 12, 2010
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Kind of a wacky finish to a wacky round.   
 RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, a little bit. I guess every golfer has got to have that every once in a while, or at least once in their career.  
  
  Q. When was the last time you had to take your shoes off and go in and get one?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: On the last hole I don't think I've ever had to do it. Like I said, I think it has to happen at least once in a golfer's career.  
  
  Q. Every tournament this year for you has been a learning experience, something new. Now you get the new experience of waiting around to see if you get to go to Atlanta or not. Tell me about it.   
 RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, like you said, we're just going to sit around and see what happens. But I'm actually hopping on a plane soon, cruising down to Stillwater to go hang out with my Cowboys and get some practice in the next couple days.  
  
  Q. So you're out of here; you won't know probably until you get home?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: Until I get to Stillwater or possibly a little bit later. We'll see what happens.  
  
  Q. Your thoughts on the week? You knew what you needed to do, and you might have done it, but it looked like you hung in there well.   
 RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, the game is really close. The course is obviously tough. The scores aren't very low, and if you miss fairways and you miss greens, you get penalized. We missed a couple fairways and a couple greens this week, and we were obviously penalized, but it was fun. To kind of come down the stretch and know I had to make an eight-footer on the last hole to have a shot, you know, it's nice to feel those nerves every once in a while, and I'm pleased with especially that last putt.  
  
  Q. Which was the better rush, the eight-footer or driving the cars all week?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: Probably the cars.   
  
  Q. What are your plans?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: Verplank and I are flying at 3:00, I think.   
  
  Q. Were you following your projected position during the round?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: I never saw any projections up until -- I think on 17 green is the only time I saw that. It said, projected to make TOUR Championship, so I never even saw the number of where I was. Basically the last hole, trying to play like I have all week, drove it in the face of a bunker, so I was trying to give myself a look at 4 and play for 5. I ended up having to work for that.  
  
  Q. What sort of lie did you have?   
 RICKIE FOWLER: Well, I was on the side of the bank, so the ball was above my feet and I was gripping down the shaft. The ball was sitting down in there a little bit, but I felt it was going to come out okay. It almost came out perfect and would have ran on the green and been nice, but it all worked out.  
  
  Q. Would have been a lot more dramatic if you would have fallen in the water like Woody Austin.   
 RICKIE FOWLER: I guess I could have done that, hit it and then fallen back. Actually there was some decent footing. It wasn't too steep. It was pretty flat down there, so I didn't have to worry about slipping and sliding.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 RICKIE FOWLER: Obviously I love playing TOUR Championship. One of our goals was to make it to the TOUR Championship and play in the FedExCup and to play well. Either way, I'm going to be preparing that week for the Ryder Cup, whether it be at the TOUR Championship playing against everyone or off somewhere working on my own game.  
  
  Q. What's the biggest perk to getting into the TOUR Championship, getting into all the majors?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: Well, that's definitely a good perk. Hopefully I'm inside the top 50 World Rankings and get in that way, too. But it obviously opens up a lot of doors, and that's really all I've been trying to do this year is open as many doors as possible.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT