QUAIL HOLLOW CHAMPIONSHIP
May 2, 2010
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Great round of golf today.   
 RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, definitely. It would have been nice to get a couple more out there. I had a couple good looks that I wish could have gone. But I played tough and got a nice number up there early, and we'll wait and see. But yeah, definitely pleased with that on Sunday.  
  
  Q. You're going to go stay loose now I take it?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, I'm going to go relax, hopefully get a shower here. Pretty hot and muggy out there today. We had our scorer go down on the last hole on the tee, so all the best to him. Hopefully he's all right. Yeah, I'm just going to hang out and hopefully it all works out.   
  
  Q. What was working for you today?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: A little bit of everything. I felt like I pieced together everything this week a little bit better. I'm driving, hitting the irons solid and a little bit of putting and short game. I had a few hiccups here and there and missed a few putts yesterday. I had a few errant drives here and there, but for the most part it was pretty solid and it was nice to put up a good round today.  
  
  Q. How excited are you to play next week at Sawgrass?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: I'm pumped. I've always watched THE PLAYERS, and it's one of the tournaments here in the States, other than the U.S. Open, the Masters, with a strong field, and I'm really pumped to go play.  
  
  Q. It seems like you're the kind of person that likes to play on ball-striking golf courses. Next week is one of those types of courses. Do you think you can win there in your first trip?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: If I play well, I think I'll have a very good chance. It's been close, but I haven't put four full solid rounds of golf together this year. I feel like I'm really close, and I'm definitely not afraid of it.  
  
  Q. Years ago Tiger and his mother decided red was the Sunday color for them. Orange has obviously become the Sunday color for you. How did that start, and what's the thought process behind it?   
 RICKIE FOWLER: Well, I was waiting for the orange shirts to come out from Puma, and now we're head to toe on Sunday. Orange is the color of the Oklahoma State Cowboys. That's where I came from. Got to support my boys back there at school and do my thing out here.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT