VERIZON HERITAGE
April 18, 2010
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. When you made the turn you got it to 10-under, did you think, you know what, I can post a number here and as tough as this golf course is playing on the back nine, I might have a shot?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, that was kind of the plan and goal going into the day. I really wanted to get out and go out there and put up a good nine, and go to the back nine and put up a good number, like you said.  
 We struggled with a few holes there figuring out the wind. It started doing all kinds of things. And I made some rough swings, made a few bogeys. I battled back a little bit. Made a birdie there at 15. Tough bogey at 17. Finished off with a good birdie at 18. So definitely not happy with the round overall.  
  
  Q. You made the turn and it looked like you made three good tee shots on 10, 11 and 12 but it was the second shot that let you down?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, I drove the ball well all week and I've been hitting the irons well all week. It's easy off the tee, because you're keeping the ball down and it's easier to keep the ball down and the wind won't touch it as much. But going into the greens you have to get it up a little bit, just trying to keep it down. But the wind affects a little more on the approach shots.  
  
  Q. How tough are the final few holes playing out here?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: With I think 15 and 16 -- 15 there's a birdie chance there. 16 has got a tough pin. Overall it's not playing really hard, but 17 is playing tough and 18 always is not an easy one.  
  
  Q. Finally, your thoughts on playing here. You've won on this island before, what was your experience like here this week?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: I love this place. This is where I got my first start or basically my first PGA TOUR event was here, so it's a special place for me. I was looking forward to coming back and playing this year. And hope that I can keep coming back and playing this course. It's one of my favorites.   
  
  Q. Thanks for your time. Great playing today.   
 RICKIE FOWLER: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT