TRANSITIONS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 18, 2010
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Four birdies, no bogeys, 67, you certainly have to be pleased with the way that not only you scored, but the way that you hit the ball, 16 greens in regulation?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, I didn't really start thinking about missing greens -- on the back nine, the par 3, I started to think, that's the first green I missed. Kind of moved smoothly through the round. Made a couple of putts, and pretty stress-free up until I had to get down to the front bunker on 16.  
 Other than that, just gave myself some looks at birdies, and four birdies, no bogeys.  
  
  Q. The par on 16, you made it from 19 feet coming down the hill, came back with a birdie on 17. Excellent shot up the hill.   
 RICKIE FOWLER: Hybrid; would have been a long iron but hit a good hybrid in there and made a good par putt on 16 and that kept the round in there. Like you said, hit a lot of greens, so good ball-striking and made a couple of putts on top of that.  
  
  Q. Playing in the cross-winds, you play so quickly, there's not a lot of time that you second-guess yourself, I think that's a huge benefit. Once you decide, you go; there's no second-guessing.   
 RICKIE FOWLER: For the most part that's what we do. I backed off one shot today just because I kind of got a gust of wind up. But waited for it to calm down and I hit the shot. Other than that, like you said, kind of pick the shot, pick the club and go.   
  
  Q. Getting to the Masters, right now you are 79th in the rankings but yet you have a low divisor. So a couple of good finishes, and we're going to be seeing you at Augusta.   
 RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, definitely looking to get to Augusta. That's kind of the main goal right now these next couple of weeks. Obviously trying to win each week but that's the main goal.   
  
  Q. Is this your first time at this course? Can you just describe a little bit how you feel playing it?   
 RICKIE FOWLER: It's pretty good. Really good, actually. Tight fairways. You have to drive the ball well. And you have to keep yourself on the right side of the hole to have a good look thea birdies. Short-side yourself, you're going to pay for it.   
 All around, I think it's a really good course. It has some undulation, which you don't get much of in Florida. With the breeze picking up like this, it makes the course play pretty good.  
  
  Q. Is the Masters in the back of your mind while you're playing this week?   
 RICKIE FOWLER: More off the course. Once I'm out there and teed off, I'm not thinking much about that stuff. Trying to get to the Masters for the first time, never been there, and I would really like my first trip to be there to play in the tournament. Obviously that's our main goal the next two weeks trying to play into the Top-50 in the world, and if not, three weeks to try to get a win.   
 So obviously a win this week or next week, doesn't matter if it gets in the Top-50 in the world, we are in the Masters. So go out, keep playing the way we did today, and should be no problem.   
  
  Q. You had a blazing finish to last year and show start to this year, but now starting to come good; are you happy with the way you started this year? Has it excited your expectations, are you kind of where you want to be? How would you sum it up?   
 RICKIE FOWLER: It's fine. A little up-and-down. But when you go back and look at it, I think I had one, two, three, four Top-10s already, a solo second, and I lost in a playoff out of I don't know how many starts, like 11 or 12, somewhere in there.   
 So, yeah, I look at more kind of the bigger picture, and not so much week-by-week. And I had some rough weeks, but that's going to happen in golf. Obviously the guys that are the most consistent usually end up higher in the rankings and stuff like that. I'm just getting my feet wet out here. Feel very comfortable and like you said, just getting my feet wet and get things going and finding where I'm comfortable at.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT