FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 28, 2010
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You had some good vibes, and it worked. 
 RICKIE FOWLER: It worked out well today. Good to put up a decent round and hit some good shots out there.

 Q. Tell me how this course played. The greens were a little bumpy, but you seemed to make some putts. 
 RICKIE FOWLER: I feel at home at poa annua. It's what I grew up on. They were actually pretty good, a little bit better than what I expected. Most of the guys said these are sometimes the bumpiest you get for the year, especially when they're soft this time of year. Poa gets that way. They rolled fairly well today, not too many bumps.

 Q. Did you feed off of Matt a little bit? Both of you guys had it going. 
 RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, we were going a little bit. We were back and forth there at the end. He finished pretty strong. 

 Q. Tell me about the strategy going into the South Course. That seemed to play a lot harder today than the North Course. 
 RICKIE FOWLER: The South is my favorite of the two, for sure. It's one of my favorites of all time of all the courses. I just like it, long, hard, straightforward and no tricks out there. 

 Q. After the Hope did you go work on your swing?
 RICKIE FOWLER: No, I just talked to him on the phone for about five minutes and just kept working on a few things that I've been working on. He gave me a swing tip, and I worked with it a little bit.

 Q. You found your swing after you left it on the plane on the way to Hawai'i?
 RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, we're getting there. It's definitely a lot better.

 Q. Do you feel pretty good coming back to Torrey Pines?
 RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, I've played more on the North than I have the South. The only tournament I've played on the South is the U.S. Open. It's nice to be back on poa annua. It's what I grew up on. It's pretty rewarding if you hit good putts, but it definitely shows your bad strokes. It's nice to be hanging out in San Diego and being close to home. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT