FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 31, 2010
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You came up out of nowhere today. Good round today. How does it feel?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: Great. I got off to a good start, good lag putts to save some pars and finally made a good birdie on 4, not a typical birdie hole, so that kind of got the round jump started. I played fairly solid from there and just made one rough swing there on 17 that cost me a couple. But you know, came back with a birdie, 2-under for the day, which is always good on the South Course, and decent finish. I got a Top 10, so nice way to start the year.   
  
  Q. Talk about 17 where you missed the green.   
 RICKIE FOWLER: It was trampled down over there. I came at it with a 7-iron. It was the right club, we had the right yardage, just came out of it a bit. Got kind of a rough lie and caught a little grass behind it, thought I hit a good putt, moved left on me, easy 6.   
  
  Q. How was it playing with Phil?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: I had a lot of fun. I've known Phil for a bit, know his brother really, really well from amateur golf from him being a coach at USD. I've actually had Phil up to Bear Creek to play a skins game with me. It was the first time I've played with him in a tournament, but we had a good time.   
 It was unfortunate to see him miss some putts. He was hitting a lot of good putts, they just weren't going in. That happens. I know how that feels after the last two weeks. But we had a great time. Phil is always fun to play with.  
  
  Q. What do you take away from this tournament? You played so well, you came back so well here. 17 you had some problems. What do you take away?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: Just knowing that I can compete out here, a little more confidence in that. I played well for a couple events in the Fall Series last year at Vegas and Fry's in Scottsdale. This just kind of reminds me that I can go out and win if I put myself in position.  
  
  Q. Are you the new face -- some of these young guns, are you like the new face of golf?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: I guess we're kind of the new face, kind of I guess just the younger generation coming in. The new face of golf, we've still got a lot of great players out here, so we're just a group of kids trying to compete.   
  
  Q. How was the crowd support today?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: I've got a lot of friends and family out here, a lot of people for Phil, as well, so it was a lot of fun with that. It was fun, especially being close to home with friends and family, and it kind of quadruples in size when you've got Phil in the group.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT