BOB HOPE CLASSIC
January 23, 2010
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about your round today.   
 RICKIE FOWLER: Terrible. That's what it is. My swing doesn't feel very good. So I'm going to go work on that.   
  
  Q. What's wrong?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: I wish you could tell me. No, it just doesn't feel right. So I'll go work on a few things, work on finding out how to straighten it out.   
  
  Q. Has it been like that since the start of the year?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah. It felt really good right before I went to Hawaii, and I guess I lost it on the plane flight over there.  
  
  Q. Besides the disappointment of last week, were you surprised at how you played?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: No. Golf can do that. I wasn't -- I expect myself to play well, but I'm not really sure how to answer that one.   
 You can't expect yourself to play your best every week you tee it up. You're going to play bad every once in awhile. And right now, I'm just not feeling like the swing is very good, and I'm going to go work on it.   
  
  Q. Last few months you've obviously become a professional, you moved out to Vegas, come back here. What's it like coming back to Southern California?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: I moved to Vegas the week before Timberlake. I spent 13 days there that week or those two weeks, I flew back one night after the Shark Shoot-out, and after that I haven't been back since. So I spent 14 nights there.   
 So for the most part I've been in Southern California for the most part. I spent Christmas down here with the parents place, and that was more a vacation time. Other than that, I think I had three weeks off, a week and a half in Florida, and with about the same here in California. So I haven't spent much time in Vegas.   
  
  Q. Has it been pretty hectic for you? Do you feel like you've been managing it okay? Is it a lot going on?  
 RICKIE FOWLER: No, it's been fine. We had a late, we went late into the season, so I didn't get off and didn't get much time off. Just trying to get back, get things started again.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT