FRYS.COM OPEN
October 24, 2009
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. An up and down day. You look at the card and see a double at 17; 16 and 18 were par putts. 
 RICKIE FOWLER: Definitely. You know, the one on 16 was definitely a little bit (indiscernible) than the one on 18. But, you know, I been rolling it well all week and hitting my lines well. I was seeing my lines pretty well out there today, so hit two good putts there.
 You know, 17, I caught a little bit more than a flyer. That thing took off. I mean, I had 195 yards to the hole and I hit 7-iron out of the rough. We were thinking it probably flew anywhere from 200 to 205, which really doesn't happen too much. 
 But that's gonna happen in tournaments. Two good putts on 16 and 18, and in good position going into tomorrow. This round is behind me, and looking forward to tomorrow.

 Q. Just the flyer or a little bit of adrenaline on 18? What do you think?
 RICKIE FOWLER: No, you know, adrenaline usually doesn't get the most of me. Made a good putt there on 16, you know, and we thought 7 was fine. I didn't really think too much about going to 8. We were trying to hit a 170-yard shot. The 170-yeard shot ended up flying over 200 yards, so that's quite a flyer. 

 Q. It's kind of hard to factor that in. You still have a shot going into tomorrow. Talk about that. 
 RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, you know, that's where I wanted to be at the beginning of the week. Went out and I felt like I held my position fairly well. Made eagle at 4, which is a good start, and made a (indiscernible) on 5, which led to double. 
 You know, from there kind of scrapping around. Then finally got, you know, about a 5-hole stretch where I hit it really well and birdied four out of five, 11 to 15. 
 So, you know, there's a little bit life out there, you know, if you got things going a bit. But, you know, the double at 17, you know, a little bit killed the momentum, but made the good putt on 18. 
 Looking forward to hopefully putting well tomorrow and giving myself some opportunities.

 Q. Final thing: If you look at it and say four shots back, it seems like it's a lot. On this golf course it's not a lot, and only one guy. Everybody else you're only one behind. Talk about that. 
 RICKIE FOWLER: Matteson has played well and put up some solid rounds. So, you know, it's not always easy to play well that many days in a row. He's obviously playing well, so I'm looking for him to put up some sort of number. 
 Someone else can come from a little further back and put up 61, 60 and put themselves right in it, too. There are a lot of guys are still in it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT