WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 1, 2019
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What an electric finish for the leader, Rick Fowler.  How did you string together that flurry of birdies?  
RICKIE FOWLER: I had a ball stay up on the hazard on 11.  I couldn't figure out whether that's a lucky break, I didn't hit it that far left, but I made a good 4 there.  Ended up birdieing 12, hit a great shot in there.  And actually had two really good looks at 13 and 14.  I had a chance to really birdie the last seven.  But to get 15, reachable par-5, to make par there, you're losing half a shot.  16, that was fun making a 2 there.  17, I hit a great drive, it's hard to hit the ball hard enough to get up that hill.  Nice to make a good putt there.  18 was a little bonus.  Hit a great drive and I took advantage of having a little flip wedge in there and hit a great putt.  I hits some really good putts today.   
 Q.  What is it about this environment that has you playing so good?  
RICKIE FOWLER: It's good energy.  I grew up around action sports, I love the how loud it gets, how energetic people are.  There's still some, you know, people out there that say some dumb stuff, but that's going to happen.  We heard some things out there today.  But you kind of just back off, regroup, obviously you don't want to have a negative swing thought going.  But I'm happy with how we managed things around and I definitely like the finish, 15, 16, 17, 18.  It will be fun to see, in years to come, I think all of it will probably be enclosed.   
 Q.  One-shot lead tomorrow over Justin Thomas.  Who is going to have driving privileges going into the weekend?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, I rode with him the last two days, so that Allison and a couple of my friends could end up coming later in our car.  So, yeah, we'll probably ride in together again.  I mean, we're on pretty similar schedules as far as times that we get to the course, bedtime.  We have the same trainer so we have stuff to figure out.  He probably will go just before me and I'll follow.  Yeah, it's fun.  Getting to play with your buddies, those are the people that you want to lose to the least, so having bragging rights right now -- we have a long ways to go, a lot of golf to be played, so that will be fun.  But definitely I don't want to have him out in front of me.   
 Q.  Four straight birdies to finish your round.  Could you talk about your finish.  
RICKIE FOWLER: It was obviously a good finish.  I felt like I got a couple good breaks.  I mean, those happen, sometimes you remember the bad once more than the good ones.  But I had a ball stay just out of the water on 11, one that stayed just in the grass on 13.  But 11 was big.  I mean, if that ball goes in the water you probably make bogey.  But I did a good job taking care of the holes coming in.  I really had a chance to birdie the last seven.  Missed a couple good looks on 13 and 14.  But to birdie the last four, especially 15, I mean, that's one where if you don't birdie it you feel like you're losing half a shot or so.  16's always a fun bonus, making 2 there.  And just did a good job of kind of staying disciplined, making good shots, good swings, and made some good putts as well coming in.  So yeah, happy about the finish and a lot of golf to be played, but excited with where we're at.   
 Q.  How much fun is this going back to the house with Justin tonight, you two going toe-to-toe here?  
RICKIE FOWLER: We're looking forward to it.  The people you want to beat the worst, you don't want your friends to have bragging rights over you.  So yesterday I had one lip out on the last.  So one shot in front of JT going into today, but, yeah, I'm out in front.  So we'll have a good time, we enjoy talking a little bit about the golf course and what was going on out there, hearing how far Cameron Champ was hitting it from JT.  So, yeah, we'll have a good time, we'll have a good dinner and hang at the house.  And like I was saying earlier, there's a lot golf to be played, we're halfway and we're going to go battle it out.   
 Q.  You love 16, that energizes you every time you step on that hole.  
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, I mean it's definitely an interesting atmosphere as far as you have to embrace it and you know that your heart's going to start beating a little bit faster, adrenaline's going to get going and kind of just have to try and slow things down and focus on just making a good swing, don't try and do anything special.  So I definitely enjoy it in there, had a lot of success in there, but yeah, that was a nice 2 today because it was a great shot with a wedge, but the putt was not an easy one.  I mean the speed and line had to match up perfectly.   
 Q.  A little bit of rain coming in, is that going to change your game a little bit for tomorrow and Sunday?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Not necessarily.  I mean, I haven't looked at what the wind direction will be, or if there will be much, but I'll continue to basically play to my spots and play aggressive when we get to and play smart when we need to.  I've had a lot of success around this golf course and it's time to finish out the weekend on top, but I'm looking forward to it.  Like I said there's a lot of golf to be played.   
 Q.  What's it like to play with JT at home and when is the last time you really, really badly wanted to beat him?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, we haven't played a whole lot the last, say month or two, just because we have been opposite schedules.  He went to Kapalua and Sony, that's when I was home.  Then I went and played Torrey Pines.  So we haven't really seen each other a whole lot really since before Christmas.  Basically we were at home for like a day here and there where we crossed over.  But yeah, we play and practice a lot at home, we have a lot of good matches, sometimes me, JT, Tiger, and we have a bunch of other guys at home that we --   
 Q.  Is it Medalist?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Medalist, Bear's Club, Floridian, Turtle Creek, kind of hop around.  It's nice to have different places to play.   
 Q.  Do you play mano a mano?  
RICKIE FOWLER: We have a little bit of everything.  JT and I, last time we played was probably a couple months ago as far as at home.  Tiger and I played a couple matches the week before going to Torrey Pines, just to kind of get things going.  So it's nice to have all those guys and your friends at home to play and practice with and play for a little bit, but nothing that's going to hurt.   
 Q.  (Question about Griffin's brother carrying the sign.)  
RICKIE FOWLER: It's great.  Griffin was a special kid and we had a good time with him the years that we got to spend with him out here.  His brother carrying the sign, his parents and sister were by the first tee there, so, no, he's always going to be with us, I know he's watching us this week.  So he's a special guy, he definitely touched a lot of people's lives.   
 Q.  What do you look forward to about Saturdays here?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Usually better weather.  It would be nice if the rain kind of held off.  It's a lot more enjoyable for the fans and the golf course plays better when it drys out, but we'll kind of see what we get.  Saturdays are typically the big day.  If we have a little bit of weather it might not be as big as it was today, but there will still be plenty of people out, it will still get loud enough.   
 Q.  What's the weirdest thing you ever heard on the 16th?  
RICKIE FOWLER: I mean there's, I don't know if there's anything that we haven't heard.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT