THE RYDER CUP
September 28, 2018
Dustin Johnson
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So had a little trouble carrying the momentum over from the first match.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: I felt like we -- you know, obviously the wind picked up this afternoon.  It's really tough around here.  And we played okay.  We had a few loose shots, which is going to happen around here.  They played really well.  They played really solid.  They didn't really ever give us anything.   
RICKIE FOWLER: They made the putts when they needed to kind of keep the momentum going or stay ahead, and we struggled to get the momentum built up, and then when we finally did, it was kind of a little late in the day.   
 Q.  But there's something to that; you can carry that over to tomorrow?  
 A. Yes.  Like DJ said, you're going to have a few loose shots here and there, and especially with how the conditions were.  But we weren't unhappy with necessarily how we played, we just got off to a slower start than we needed to.   
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Another few putts that should have gone in that didn't, which is a big -- you know, we had 8 and 9, and then 10 and 11, so with four holes in a row where we could possibly be even, should have measured at all-square, instead we're like 4-down.  And that's a big difference, you know, four holes in a row where just some putts didn't go our way.  And that's how it goes in match play and how it goes in these matches.  I felt like we played fairly solid.  They played really well.   
RICKIE FOWLER: They made the putts.  We didn't make enough early.   
 Q.  Do the tough results this afternoon, does that light a fire going to into tomorrow and what has to be done?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, definitely.  We knew it was going to be tough.  And going into today, I don't think we looked at it as this morning that we were going to get up to some sort of crazy lead or anything.  Each session is a whole new battle.  So we knew it was going to be a grind.   
It looks like we're going to be down 5-3, which, you know, it's not a bad position.  We'd much rather be flipped where we were up 5-3.  But there's still a lot of golf to be played.  And I know the team's going to be hungry and ready to go tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT