PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2018
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You find yourself in a familiar place, near the lead in a major.  (No microphone)?  
RICKIE FOWLER: I feel like the game plan we've had this week and how we've been going about playing the course -- this golf course really suits me.  I feel like I can play it very well.  I feel like I'm in a good spot with the game.  So the biggest thing is, yeah, like you mentioned, is not getting ahead of yourself, sticking to the game plan, not trying to be -- can't be perfect, but not trying to do anything extra special, staying within myself and just taking care of the shots that I can hit and what I can control.   
So I'm looking forward to getting a little bit of hour or two of rest and get right back out.   
 Q.  What time did you get up this morning?  
RICKIE FOWLER: I ended up rolling out of bed around 4:45.  I got to lay around a few minutes before that, but tried to push it as much as we could.   
 Q.  Shane Lowry said there was a benefit to having pristine conditions on the greens this morning.  
RICKIE FOWLER: We had good greens, but what was nice yesterday is the course was just starting to dry out a little bit to where the ball would hop a little bit on the fairway.  This morning we were dealing with -- the golf ball was wet once you did hit the fairway.  The rough was thicker and wet.  So I think kind of evened out.  The nice thing is we did have fresh greens, so you didn't have to deal with greens that had been kind of marked up through the day.   
Like I said, I think it just kind of evens out.   
 Q.  You had some nice par saves out there.  How big was that to just keep the momentum moving forward?  
RICKIE FOWLER: I mean, that was nice.  We had fresh greens, so I knew, if I got the ball started online, they were going to go in.  No, there was, you know, three big ones, one being on our second hole of the day, and I made another good one on 15.  18 was probably the best just because it had quite a bit of movement.  So to finish it off with that and have the putter going, that's always a nice little bonus for the weekend.   
 Q.  You mentioned yesterday you thought it would maybe start to dry out.  Has the golf course taken on enough water now that the conditions you guys saw Monday through Thursday are going to be around all week?  
RICKIE FOWLER: The most it will probably get to is maybe where it was yesterday afternoon.  I don't think we're expected to get any moisture the next couple days.  I think the wind is going to be more out of the north.  It would be nice it's not going to be the hot, humid south wind.  It's still going to be warm.   
I think the golf course will dry out a little bit over the next two days.  It's not going to get to a place where it's firm and fast by any means.   
 Q.  What are you going to do before the next round?  
RICKIE FOWLER: I'm just going to go back to the house, probably change at some point, and come back here and go through a little warmup.   
 Q.  You birdied three of your last four holes yesterday before play was suspended. What's the biggest challenge when you're playing hot and having to come back and finish in the morning?  
RICKIE FOWLER: It's nothing you can really do or change.  It's things that we deal with throughout the year.  We deal with delays a lot through the summer.  Basically -- luckily, we're only dealing with one delay this week, it looks like.  There's times where it's multiple, and you just play when you get to play.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT