PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2018
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RICKIE FOWLER: Long day.  Woke up at 4:45, came out and finished the second round, went back for a quick change and got back after it this afternoon.  Had to grind it out and kind of fight through things, but all in all, we're in a good spot and have a chance to win tomorrow.  So I'm looking forward to that opportunity.   
 Q.  With the number of birdies that people were getting out there today -- you had, I think, one on the back nine.  How did you -- did you feel there was more there that you could have had?  
RICKIE FOWLER: There were, but it's a fine line.  There's some tight pins.  It is what it is.  I mean, a little off, didn't get the ball close enough on a few holes, but I'm happy with where we're at, not having played our best golf through the 26-hole stretch today.   
 Q.  You've been in this position before, being a few shots off going into the final round of a Major.  What have you learned about it?  
RICKIE FOWLER: It's just how comfortable and how confident I'll feel tomorrow versus maybe when you look at three, four, five years ago.  It will be fun.  I'm looking forward to it.  It's going to take a solid round of golf from whoever's going to win tomorrow because there's a lot of guys.  Obviously, Brooks out front, but a lot of guys from 10 to 7 under.  It's not going to be given to anyone.   
 Q.  Do you see Patrick Wisdom was called up by the Cardinals today?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Just saw that a little bit ago.  Pretty cool.  I'm sure I'll catch up with him shortly here tonight.  It's been a long time coming.  He's put a lot of work on and kind of gone through each stage of what you would call professional baseball, from rookie ball, seeing low A, high A, double, triple.  It's been fun to be, you know, as close as I am with him and our families and everything.  So definitely happy for him.   
 Q.  Did you go back to high school with him?  
RICKIE FOWLER: He's two years younger than me.  He was one of my sister's best friends in high school.  So we've known him for quite some time.  He stays with us during Spring Training.   
 Q.  So going into tomorrow, what do you -- what's your approach coming into tomorrow?  What do you look to do?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Play better than I did today, that's for sure.  Fairways and greens, and I'll make some putts.  That will happen, but I definitely need to drive the ball a little better than what I've been doing and tighten up the irons.  But I think playing similar to what we did the first day, which was very stress-free golf.  It sounds easy, but just getting the ball in play, get the ball in the fairway, get on the green, and just kind of keep plotting around and moving forward.   
 Q.  Talk about being a grind today, as you're playing 26 holes, what you did today?  
RICKIE FOWLER: 26 holes, yeah.  We got up at 4:45 this morning.   
 Q.  So when you have to go through that, how physically, especially in warm weather, a day like this?  
RICKIE FOWLER: We're definitely looking forward to getting back, showering, and I'll probably still be here for another 45 minutes or so, cool down, and getting worked on by my trainer to make sure we're good to go for tomorrow.  But, yeah, get back and shower and get some food and rest up as best we can because, yeah, it's definitely a long day.  Long hours and being out here in the heat.  You're in contention and going through the grind, so need a rest physically and mentally.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT