ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 13, 2018
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A bit slower to get going today but you managed to come away with another sound sub-70 here at Gullane?
RICKIE FOWLER: It was slower.  Didn't get it close enough out of the gate and missed a couple good looks.  Still managed to get it going, keep it moving the right direction.  Only the one bogey on the same hole as yesterday.  Hit a lot of good putts.  Hit some good putts coming in.  Missed a couple on 17 and 18 that I hit where I wanted to.  That's all you can do out there.  Hopefully that was just a sign of saving them for the weekend.
Q. How different were the conditions out there today compared to yesterday?
RICKIE FOWLER: Similar early on.  We had the two holes of a light drizzle and pretty light winds after that, not really much at all.  Looked like it was pretty calm this morning, so I don't necessarily see one side of the draw necessarily being better.  Maybe we're just on the bad side if you were to pick one but I don't really think there was much of a difference.
Both days very good for scoring, as you can see.  There's plenty of scores under par and we're in a good spot for the weekend.
Q. Having won here, how nice is it going into the weekend nicely into contention again?
RICKIE FOWLER: It's great.  Obviously I know I can play this golf course well.  Exactly where we want to be and glad we came over here to get things ready for next week obviously.  We came over here to try to win The Scottish Open.
Q. Great crowds out there?
RICKIE FOWLER: The fans have always been great up here.  I feel like they are very knowledgeable golf fans and very respectful.  It's been great.  I'm sure this weekend we're going to get some more.  It's supposed to be nice and warm and sunny, and I think the rain's done and passed through today.  It will be a great week.
We're in a good shot.  Left some out there today but happy about it.  We're in a place where we've played well before and somewhat of defending in a way, since the last time it was here, we won, so I'm looking forward to it.  I'm looking forward to this weekend.  We're supposed to have good weather.
Q. A lot of players play with a smile on their face around here.  It's that kind of course, it can be a devil at times but it's in terrific conditions.
RICKIE FOWLER: The course is in great shape.  I feel like we have fairly mellow conditions as far as the first two days.  I don't think we're supposed to get a whole lot over the weekend.  The golf course is out to score well, but at the same time you have to putt the ball in good positions, avoid the bunkers and make putts.  I'm looking forward to it.  I'm sure it's going to be a battle with a roughly of guys this weekend.  It's a fairly crowded leaderboard and some guys that are playing well.
Q. Do you have a number in mind for Sunday?
RICKIE FOWLER: No clue.  A lot of it's going to be dictated after what happens tomorrow and kind of the pace that's set and if anyone runs and gets things going, but no, we'll just go out and now it's kind of a new tournament starting for the week and we're off and running on the weekend.  We have a Saturday tee time and obviously in a good spot.  We'll just go out and try and get off to a good start.
Q. When the rain began to fall and the wind picked up a little bit, it showed its teeth a little bit, the course?
RICKIE FOWLER: A little bit.  I mean it looked like it could have potentially been bad.
Q. That would have been fun.
RICKIE FOWLER: It would have but that would have meant we were on the bad side of the draw, which I don't think anyone necessarily got a bad side.  It seemed like it was fairly even.  Yeah, the last time we were here, we had a couple days that were pretty windy.
We haven't seen anything like that yet, so guys are seeing this golf course in a very scorable situation.  With the fairways running it's playing somewhat short and the greens are receptive.  Unless the wind picks up this weekend, they are getting to see this place almost as easy as it gets.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT