U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2018
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
RICKIE FOWLER: No, not necessarily.  It would just be nice, I think, if I'm not sitting here wishing I made cut at five or six over.  So that's all I would kind of say on it.   
Obviously it was very tough this afternoon.  I made it a little tougher.  I did hit some shots that I thought were better than what they turned out.  Actually, my first pitch on 10, where I made triple, I thought I hit a perfect pitch.  I thought it was going to be good and obviously with it being a little downwind, it ran up a little bit more and catches the back ridge there.   
Yeah, I would say the only thing -- not necessarily criticizing the setup and how it played in the afternoon, but when it's that big an advantage to playing in the morning versus the afternoon, I think it takes away from the work that the guys have done the first two days.  Not talking about just myself, the guys that are playing behind me.  It's just tough out there.   
 Q.  How hard is to get your head in it when things are going like that?  
RICKIE FOWLER: You start to kind of laugh at it.  I wasn't necessarily playing the best of golf and that kind of gets compounded with how tough it is playing.  I didn't necessarily drive it as well as I needed to.  Then I wasn't able to necessarily come back from a single mistake.  Obviously it would be nice to save bogey on 3, and I make bogey on 8 and make bogey on 10, you are in a little different situation.  So things just got compounded a little bit out there.  Kind of just how it's playing.  It's a very fine line.   
 Q.  A tough day like this is going to be disappointing.  But seeing the leaders slide back and knowing where you were going into the day, how much worse does that make it just knowing if you had been able to survive, you would have been right in the mix?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Like I kind of mentioned earlier, it almost seems like some of the guys probably wish that they would have made the cut around 5 or 6 over in a way.  Like I said, when you are kind of taking away from what you did the first two days and analyze that in a way, a little unfortunate.   
Obviously there's some guys playing out there just fine this afternoon.  I don't think anyone is under par.  I'm not sure if there is necessarily an under par round out there this afternoon.   
I mean, try to battle through.  It's not fun being 10 over through 11 holes.  I was trying to see if we could break 80, but the double on 15 kind of ruined our chances of that.   
 Q.  Have you ever played a tougher venue?  
RICKIE FOWLER: No.  With how tough it is, the setup and obviously the conditions, it's about as tough as it gets.   
 Q.  I understand what you are saying about the morning matches (inaudible).  What does that say?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Are you trying to take away from me?   
 Q.  I'm saying that somehow the experience of having been in the battle --  
RICKIE FOWLER: Yeah, I'm just talking about the guys shooting obviously Berger and Finau shot 4 under.  Obviously that's great golf.  But that round was not out there this afternoon.  And I'm not taking anything away from their round.  A 4 under round there is a great round of golf.   
The course changed and played a lot differently this afternoon.  I did not play the round that I wanted to and needed to today.  I think it just shows a lot by six of those ten or 11 that you talked about are major winners but no one is under par.  Those are some of the best players in the world.   
 Q.  You mentioned that some of the guys that are out there right now are managing to hold it together.  What do you think are the one or two big things that they are doing right now that you just unfortunately weren't able to do this afternoon?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Hitting more fairways and greens than I did.  Like I said, I made mistakes and then I wasn't able to get myself out of trouble like I needed to.  It is what it is.  Go hopefully get a good round tomorrow and get a decent finish.  This was obviously one that I was looking forward to.  I love Shinne.  Love playing it.  It would have been nice to -- like I said, maybe I should have made the cut around 5 over.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT