THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 11, 2018
Rickie Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  When was the last time you hit a ball in a tree?  
RICKIE FOWLER: I did it here last year.   
 Q.  Which hole last year?  
RICKIE FOWLER: 18.  So, yeah, I mean, it's a rare occasion.  Last year I was able to identify it, kind of bad break in timing this year, kind of had got things going, was in a good spot and would have been nice to kind of finish off the round where we were, try and get one or two more coming in.  Obviously didn't make a great swing, but it's five yards right of the fairway and the marshals and fans were standing right there, saw it was the tree it hit and obviously got stuck up there.  Unfortunately, the part of the ball that was showing was just all the white and dimples, I couldn't see any of my markings and so, yeah, couldn't identify it, so back to the tee.   
 Q.  What was that discussion like with Mark?  We saw the binoculars over his shoulder.  
RICKIE FOWLER: Just trying to stabilize, because when you're trying to hold it just with your hands, I mean, obviously, they shake a little bit.  So I was trying to see if there was anything on the sides that I could see to identify it, but couldn't.  So, yeah, unfortunate, I mean, if a ball happens to hit something and go into a hazard, it's not like you have to go identify the ball inside the hazard or in the water it's, hey, we saw it go right here.  So, I mean it was pretty clear that the ball was there, that was where everyone saw it go, heard it go, but not the case with that one.   
 Q.  What's the takeaway from the week?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Definitely pleased with how I went out today and kind of fought through things.  Didn't drive it great, I get it to 5-under, like I said, I was in a great spot -- 6 is a, it can be a birdie hole -- hit it in the fairway, you have a wedge in; and have having 9 being reachable.  So like I said, we were in a good spot, it would have been nice to either finish there or get one or two more coming in, but just unfortunate timing.   
 Q.  What were your thoughts on watching Tiger for these last two days and seeing where his game's at?  
RICKIE FOWLER: Obviously he didn't have his best and he'll tell you that, but he did a good job fighting through it.  Just kind of trying to get the most out of it, taking advantage when he did get opportunities.  I would say, especially kind of the last nine holes we all knew where the cut would roughly be, just kind of managing his way around, I thought he did a great job and made some good putts and he's got a tee time tomorrow, it looks like.  So I think that's kind of the first goal when you come into the week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT