NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: AVALANCHE v RED WINGS
May 27, 2002
Peter Forsberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Peter, this all happened so fast.  Did you even know Drury fanned on the shot?  And if you did, how happy was he that he did that?
 
PETER FORSBERG: I was really surprised.  I think their line went for a change and we came three on two, I think.  And I came by myself.  And, you know, I was a little nervous coming in there, but finally got it done. 
 
Q.  Kasparaitis says he was yelling for you to dump it back to him.  Did you hear him, and would you ever do that?
 
PETER FORSBERG: I know me and Drury were screaming at Willsie in the first place.  I did not hear Kasparaitis.  If he was screaming, I think I would have heard him.  But I did not hear him, though. 
 
Q.  Peter, can you talk about just how much fun you're having?  Nine goals.  You talked about not having expectations.  But do you keep surpassing?
 
PETER FORSBERG: It's fun when you're winning.  As long as we're doing that, it's great.  This is really a tough series.  Of course, you're talking about fun, but it's coming down to winning the games and playing hard and who wants to win.  Right now, we got a little break today, and, you know, we're going to make sure we're ready for the next one.  It's not just sitting back and having fun.  You have to play hard. 
 
Q.  Your teammates and coaches all say you're amazing them by missing the whole year and coming in and dominating.  Are you surprising yourself how you're playing?
 
PETER FORSBERG: I didn't know what to expect when I came into the first game of the playoffs.  I have been working hard off the ice, skating a little bit in August and January, and before I came back, even if I missed a lot of games.  This is an easy team.  I've played here for a long time.  I've got great linemates.  It's been easy to fit in. 
 
Q.  Peter, can you talk about the goal itself and what were you thinking when the puck came to you and you were trying to beat Dom?  Did you have a plan in mind?
 
PETER FORSBERG: I'm not a natural goal scorer.  I think the puck started to roll after I made the first move and I was a little surprised it went in.  I'm not usually good at breakaways.  It went in.  I was really happy for it. 
 
Q.  I know you're flying up the ice, but is there any doubt in your mind that play is onsides or not?
 
PETER FORSBERG: I don't know.  I mean, I think the referees make the call.  They made a call in Game 4, and today, I mean, you got to trust what they're doing.   
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT