NHL ALL-STAR WEEKEND
January 17, 1998
Peter Forsberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PETER FORSBERG:  You can't just sit back and feel sorry for yourself.  Do you what you have to do.  When it comes to the Olympic Games, it's something you dream about. You can't sit back and say, "I'm tired."


Q.  In all honesty, could you do without the All-Star (inaudible)?

PETER FORSBERG:  No.  It's a fun thing to come here and play.  It's not a real conditioning thing, training here.  It's a fun game and you're here to have fun.


Q.  Do you see any magazines or TV shows back home? What are they saying?  Is there any Olympic hype?

PETER FORSBERG:  Oh, yeah, anywhere I think it is. It's not only hockey, it's every sport.  You know, it's a big event.


Q.  Peter, when you were growing up in Sweden, I've never been aware of an academy where you can skip classes to play hockey.  Can you run through that system?  Seems weird.

PETER FORSBERG:  Well, you have your regular  classes, like three hours every other day, three times a week.  You get twice a week to have an ice practice.  Once a week you have weight lifting.  It was great.  We had a great group of guys when I was there, five of us, I think.  It's a great competition.  Every practice was hard.  I think that's helped us a lot, everybody that was there.  I wouldn't accept losing as a team, wouldn't accept losing as my team.  It's like a war every practice.  I think it helped us a lot.


Q.  It's in a small town?

PETER FORSBERG:  It's only 60,000.  It's not a big town.  It's a big hockey town.  Everybody plays hockey when you grow up.


Q.  On the darkest day of the year, how much sunlight is there?

PETER FORSBERG:  Not a whole lot (laughter).


Q.  Sort of like Vancouver on All-Star Weekend?

PETER FORSBERG:  Rainy day here (laughter).  It gets really dark.  During the summer, it's bright all day and all night.  You can play golf at two o'clock in the morning.  Pretty it's pretty good for me because I'm over here in the winters.  It's really improved my golf game (laughter).


Q.  Did you play at two in the morning ever? 

PETER FORSBERG:  There's a tournament that you play 24 hours.  I don't know how many holes, 72 holes (laughter).


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT