THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 7, 2017
Hudson Swafford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Hudson, what a great day for ball striking.  You only missed one green the entire round.
HUDSON SWAFFORD: Okay, I didn't know that, but I know I had a lot of chances out there.  Was patient early.  It was a little, eh, early off the tee, but got into a great rhythm and really hit it nicely.
Q. In fact, you were talking about patience.  I thought you may get frustrated because you had a couple putts I thought you hit well enough to go in, 13 and 14, couple ten-footers, but I thought you kept your patience and finished strong.
HUDSON SWAFFORD: Yeah, no, I hit a lot of good putts out there.  I missed a few more low than I have in the past.  Actually finally starting to see some good stuff kind of come together.  Been working pretty hard and it's been close the last couple weeks.  You know, nine holes here, twelve holes here that are really good golf.  See it coming together.
I've been putting good so I know they're going to fall.  Just be patient.
Q. I'm guessing you didn't like your chip at the 17th hole; led to par.  But what a great iron into 18 to finish your day.
HUDSON SWAFFORD: No, yeah, that was great.  Yeah, the chip, I kind of misjudged the lie.  I thought it was straight down grain, best lie I had in the rough chipping all week.
Felt like if you get it a little right of that pin it's going to feed away from the hole.  Kind of had a tough angle obviously.  Caught some grass and turned the club over a little bit and rolled down the slope, which is very unfortunate because I missed it in a perfect spot.
You know, it's just part of it.  Then stepped up there and hit a great wedge and good putt and made it on the last hole.  Just kind of icing on the cake going into the weekend.
Q. Thoughts going into the weekend?
HUDSON SWAFFORD: Just to stay patient, keep doing what I'm doing.  I am driving it great, hitting irons good, giving myself a lot of chances.
Be patient on the greens, because I know I've been putting really well.  That's kind of been hanging in me there, keeping me around the last few weeks.  I know I'm going to start making some putts.
Q. Take us through the second round.  Fine position going into the weekend.  You must be pleased.
HUDSON SWAFFORD: Yeah, absolutely.  Been working pretty hard lately and haven't got a ton out of it.  Been driving it kind of poor.  Did some more with TaylorMade early in the week and got back to square one got a great fit.
That's my strength so when it's off it kind of makes all parts of my game struggle.  Kind of back to that.  Hitting a lot of greens, giving myself a lot of chances.
Didn't see quite as many putts go in as I had the last few weeks, but being patient.  I'm giving myself a lot of chances.  You're not going to make every one of them, but I know I'm going to make a lot come the weekend.
Q. Did you feel like you had to play catch up today going into the second round?
HUDSON SWAFFORD: No.  I need to do play my game.  I know it's 72 holes.  You can't win it on Friday many you can definitely lose it.  Go out there and give myself as many chances a birdie as possible of only missed one green so gave myself a lot of chances.
I feel very comfortable the way I'm hitting the ball right now.  Feels really good.  Actually not stroking it bad; just hadn't made a ton of putts, which is kind of a good thing because I know I'm a good putter, so I feel like it could get hot on the weekend.
Q. How do you summarize your season given you had the great win but the last three months haven't been what you wanted?
HUDSON SWAFFORD: Yeah, no, it's been tough.  It's been disappointing for sure.  Playing great too after the win, played some nice golf, and kind of Masters time and right after -- I actually hit it pretty good in New Orleans, but after that it's just kind of been kind of stale.
I've actually been working pretty hard and maybe trying to work too hard on it and getting too far ahead.  Kind of grinding myself into a hole, getting tired.
Now just kind of taking the approach, you know, you can't do anything about it.  Just go try to have some fun again.  Realize you won early in the year and just see what happens.  Give yourself just a chance.
I like this golf course a lot.  Playing the pro-am on Wednesday I was like, They kind of made it where you can go get it and started seeing a lot of good shots.
Just try to give yourself as many chances at birdie as possible.
Q. Can make you feel rejuvenated, right?
HUDSON SWAFFORD: Yeah, absolutely, for sure.
Q. You ever get tired of playing with Henley?
HUDSON SWAFFORD: No.  We have a good time.  I mean, it's love/hate.  We're battling against each other.  We do bring out best in each other.  We had a great go.  Both of us were struggling last week and we both had a couple under-par rounds last week at a tough golf course.  I think he stuck me by one but shot 3-under the last round last week.  We bring the best out of each other and we always have.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT