SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 13, 2017
Hudson Swafford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 62 yesterday afternoon, fresh greens this morning.  Good for 2-under.  Your thoughts?
HUDSON SWAFFORD: I actually came out striking it pretty nice.  Hit it to about ten feet on the first hole right below the hole.  Had a great look.  Hit a good putt.  Little mis-read and ran it right over the lip.  That was kind of the whole day.  Didn't drive it nearly as good today.  Hit six fairways.  But I had a ton of looks.  I hit great putts all day.  I literally had maybe five putts lip out today that yesterday kind of lipped in.
Still hitting my irons good.  Still giving myself great opportunities.  Two birdies on the last after being even all day, not doing too much.  It was kind of nice.
Q. The stats can bely the play a little bit around here because of how the course is playing firm and fast.  Are you going with a bunch of drivers off tee or are you defensive on some?
HUDSON SWAFFORD: A little of both.  I'm aggressive where I can be.  I'm pushing some limits for sure.  You can kind of do either.  12 doesn't really call for a driver but I like hitting driver there and I try to get it way down there and hit wedge.  You're just out of the fairway.  Usually your path is kind of in trouble, so a wedge out of the rough is better than hitting 7-iron from the fairway I think.
So yeah, there's an aggressive part to it, and then even shaving some doglegs but being in the rough is not that bad, because you've got some wedges, so you can kind of bounce it up on these greens.  So that's kind of the approach I take, and you know, the six fairways that I hit today, a few of them were skewed for sure.  So the thing that I look at is keeping myself below the hole here and giving myself a lot of looks.  I had a lot of that today.
Q. You mentioned yesterday, you were not playing so well and had some time off at the break and had some adjustments.
HUDSON SWAFFORD: Went up actually Monday before I went to La Quinta for a week.  Worked with Scott Hamilton.  It was an easy fix.  I thought it was going to be a rough little week before coming in here because I was kind of struggling and I wasn't playing very good.  Kind of getting the club away from my body and blade off at the top.
Really two hours of work and I started seeing results right away.  Then went to the Hideaway out at La Quinta and worked on my game and saw a lot of good results and good shots.  I was fired up to come back to Sony.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT