THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 2, 2016
Hudson Swafford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  6 under on the last five holes.  What was the key to your opening start?  
HUDSON SWAFFORD: Just good ball striking.  Left my ball kind of below the hole.  I could be aggressive with the putts, which is a good thing out here because usually you're playing a lot of defense, and I had to do that a lot on the back nine.  Still hit a lot of wonderful shots, but just had to play a little more defense on the putts.   
Yeah, that was a nice little stretch of holes.   
 Q.  You came into this week making three cuts in a row.  What's kind of turned it around for you?  
HUDSON SWAFFORD: I've actually been playing great golf for the last month, and really the last six rounds, I didn't really make any putts.  Played great at -- really started playing good at Byron Nelson, 8 under the first two days.  Didn't make a putt on the weekend.  Just kind of burnt a lot of edges, a lot of lip outs, so kind of got lapped there.   
Last week, struck it beautifully, just didn't make any putts.  Kind of went back to an old putting drill, a little 4, 6, 8, just trying to see balls just kind of dribble in.  Just kind of worked on my speed this week and just kind of back to where I was leading up to that, some good putting.   
 Q.  Looked like a nice day out there.  What were the conditions look like?  
HUDSON SWAFFORD: They were perfect.  The golf course is in unbelievable shape.  The greens are pure.  I know they have a little poa annua in them.  I know Mr. Nicklaus isn't very happy about that.  But they're rolling unbelievable.  Not crazy fast for this place, so you can make a few putts.   
 Q.  Great opening day for Hudson, thanks in part to a great opening nine, a 29 for you.  What was working so well early in your round?  
HUDSON SWAFFORD: Just being patient, hitting a lot of good golf shots.  Really started on No. 3, hit a little 52 in there about seven feet up the hill, made it.   
Had to lay up on No. 5, the par 5, because I hit a beautiful tee shot just kind of under a tree, had a bad number, laid up, almost made the wedge and then it was kind of off to the races from there.   
Hit a lot of quality golf shots.  Just gave myself putts that I didn't have to play defense on.  Maybe shoved a 5 wood a touch on No. 7.  I was trying to hit it in the middle of the green, and I ended up seven feet right behind the hole.  So I'll take that for a nice eagle.  And kind of the rest is history.   
 Q.  This may be a weird question considering you shot a 66, but is there a little bit of disappointment in you considering you couldn't keep the momentum going on the back nine?  
HUDSON SWAFFORD: Yes and no.  I actually played great.  Maybe a little aggressive.  I actually talked it out with my caddie on 11.  It doesn't quite set up great for my eye, but I'd been hitting it good.  So I hit driver.  Hitting 3 wood, it's such an easy wedge pin.  Hit a 3 wood, 8 iron, lob wedge, and it would be an easy birdie look.  I tried to make 3 because I felt -- I was feeling good and pulled it left, ended up making bogey.  It is what it is.   
Hit a beautiful shot on 12, lipped out.  Had a couple looks, but just had to play a little more defense on the back.   
The back nine, it can be penal if you're playing defense with your putts.  You've got to hit it in certain sections and just missed a few sections, but I hit a bunch of great golf shots in the back.   
Yeah, it could have been great.  It could have been one of those moments that's great, but really actually played pretty solid on the back.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT