WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 1, 2020
Hudson Swafford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Bogey-free round 5-under puts yourself in position to win a golf tournament tomorrow. Thoughts on how you played today?
HUDSON SWAFFORD: I played really solid. I would say I did everything pretty well. I hit a lot of good putts that went in, hit a lot of good putts that didn't go in, hit a lot of quality iron shots, I drove the ball good, I just, everything was just solid. So, yeah, that was it. I just didn't get ahead of myself, didn't get impatient and kind of just let it come to me.
Q. The major medical, what's that thought process, because there's a number you need to reach, it's not like, oh, I got to win here, you have to reach a number and obviously this week's really going to help.
HUDSON SWAFFORD: Yeah, and that's how I was kind of looking at it before was a number and that was a problem, as opposed to an opportunity to win a golf tournament. I kind of sat down with Bhrett McCabe this week and kind of just hashed out and he was just saying, You're as good as -- your good is really good, like this is an opportunity to win a golf tournament, you have to look at it like that. And just stay patient, let it come to you instead of trying to force it. And something just clicked and I feel really confident, I think my game's in a good place, so, yeah, just looking forward to tomorrow.
Q. Former Georgia Bulldog, live in St. Simons, grew up in Florida, who is your Super Bowl pick tomorrow?
HUDSON SWAFFORD: KC is pretty electric, I'm going to have to go with them. I know the 49er fans don't like to hear that and their stout defense. But, man, they got a lot of weapons on offense, so it's going to be a fun one to watch.
Q. How pleased are you with the round out there, bogey-free.
HUDSON SWAFFORD: Yeah, that was good. That was nice. You talk about those and then doing it is different, so it was nice.
Q. What was going so well?
HUDSON SWAFFORD: Everything was good today, I drove the ball good, I putted great, and a lot of quality iron shots. I kind of just stayed to my targets, whether it was 25 feet from the hole or to go right at the pin and had a good number. As firm as these greens are getting you got to be patient. You're not going to hit three quarter shots into some front pins and get it close. It's just, you got to hit away from some pins with wedge, unfortunately, but, no, just patient and gave myself a bunch of chances.
Q. The putter seems to be working pretty well with the way the stats look.
HUDSON SWAFFORD: Yeah, putting it great, rolling it great, confident there. Worked pretty hard early in the week with my caddie Kyle just getting my speed more consistent. I've had a lot of good putting rounds this year, but not a lot of good putting tournaments. A couple rounds in the tournament where it's been good, but it's been pretty consistent all week, good speed on the greens has been key.
Q. Your results the last couple of years you've only had one top-10 the last couple of seasons. What have you been doing to get you consistent week-to-week?
HUDSON SWAFFORD: Well I had surgery on my foot and got my ribs a little better from when I had to sit out 10 weeks. So it's been an injury-packed last couple years. Really unfortunate after a really good year in 2017. But just trying to get back to the same stuff I was doing then, kind of freewheeling, a lot healthier now. It's really hard to be beat the best in the world when you're at 60 percent, 50 percent maybe. I tried and it didn't really work and so, yeah, it's good to be healthy again.
Q. How was the environment today, just going through 16 and everything?
HUDSON SWAFFORD: It was electric. 16 was good. It sounded like it was kind of died down a little bit when I came through. I heard it on the range today when the first couple groups were going through and it was, the place was rocking. So we got kind of lucky coming through there. But, no, it's a great atmosphere, you just got embrace it and enjoy it, it's fun.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT