THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2016
Hudson Swafford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  When you got here in the morning did you realize that it's going to be a day where people can go low?  
HUDSON SWAFFORD: Yeah, I got here I didn't expect the greens to be quite as soft as they were yesterday, they were obviously, they were rolling out a good bit today, you definitely had to be careful on certain putts, getting above the hole, certain down grains that are kind of sloping away, make sure you play enough break.   
But the greens were receptive.  It's kind of, it was kind of shocking, I mean, but, I mean, obviously, they will probably turn the water on tonight -- they were still pretty soft this morning -- by tomorrow they will be firm and Saturday and Sunday they will be concrete.   
So be patient, hit yourself a lot of quality shots, middle of the green and give your self looks, trying to make stress free pars and you never know, you make a couple and here we are.   
 Q.  When you shoot a 66 and at the same time you know that there are strokes out there that you left there, like on 3, do you still walk away pleased or do you think about the ones that you missed?  
HUDSON SWAFFORD: No, yeah, golf you can always do better, right?  Everybody says what if, what if, but it was all in all a solid day.   
Didn't get up-and-down on 2 today, out of the rough, kind of pin high.   
I was kind of, really, that was the -- a 3-putt, but I hit two good putts on the first hole, just lipped out.   
After that, I made a lot of good putts.   
So, you know, I'm not going to really harp on the negative.  6-under in this pretty difficult course -- I know the greens were soft, so you can make some birdies today, but just a really good solid start.  I'm not going to really harp on anything bad today.   
 Q.  With these conditions does that make 17 a little less scary?  
HUDSON SWAFFORD: Yeah, I like 17.  You got a wedge, you got the people around.  The wind was kind of down, so makes it a little easier.  I would rather have the wind down and be aggressive with a club.   
So, 17's never easy, but you're not standing up there with a 6-iron, so it makes the hole fun.   
 Q.  How important was it for you to get off real early and get some momentum?  Kind of get out and kind of under the radar and just take off?  
HUDSON SWAFFORD: Yeah, no, it's always important to get off to a good start.  But you can't really dictate when you tee off.  You always want to get off to a good start in a tournament.   
It's nice that I played a nice round, I feel pretty comfortable with my game, pretty high on it right now.  So I can go enjoy and hang out at the beach this afternoon.   
 Q.  As a first timer, was there a point where you were like, all right, this is a little easier than I thought it was going to be?  
HUDSON SWAFFORD: I mean, at the end of the day it's just another golf tournament.  It's the same as the last few golf tournaments.  A few more people.   
But I live an hour from here, didn't have to get on a plane, grew up two and a half hours from here, Bermuda grass, it's kind of home.  I like playing on Bermuda.  I like Pete Dye golf courses.   
So, I mean, first timer, yeah.  I played the golf course a number of times growing up in junior events.  Obviously, it's not THE PLAYERS, but you just got to treat it as another tournament.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT