FRYS.COM OPEN
October 12, 2014
Hudson Swafford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Well played out there, 5‑under par.   You got it to 6‑under early, three birdies in a row at 4, 5 and 6, eagle at 9, birdie at 11 and then a bad swing at 12, and a great bogey but you just couldn't seem to get the momentum back. 
HUDSON SWAFFORD:   Yeah, actually I made a lot of good swings after I hit it out of bounds.   I really didn't even think I made a bad swing right there out of bounds.   I caught it a little thin, started spinning with the wind, kind of caught a gust and kept riding.   I didn't really see that coming after I swung it very well.   But I swung nicely after that, just couldn't get it close enough, had some putts burn the edges, and kind of a misread on the last.   Actually had a really good drive on the last hole.   That was probably one of my better ones of the day and hit it down the left and it kind of kicked left, and I was pretty sad about that, but it is what it is.   It was a great Sunday.

Q.   Wind up today, dry temperatures.   How much did this golf course change today?
HUDSON SWAFFORD:   It did.   It got firm and fast.   You had to be in the fairway, controlling your ball was a must.   Today was probably the first all‑day good ball‑striking round I've had, and my putting and short game really held me in there.   I finally had a day where I hit the ball well and gave myself a lot of chances.   It was nice to see, get on a run early, and then just kind of hit a stop.   It was still a great Sunday.

Q.   Had to go back through the finals events for the Web.com championship.   To come out with a good start in the first event, what does that mean to you?
HUDSON SWAFFORD:   Oh, it's solid.   I think these fall events are huge.   If you get off to a good start in these fall events, it just kind of sets up the rest of the year.   Like I say, you can't just coast, but it takes pressure off if you play well in the fall.   Especially I've got a home game here in a couple of weeks at McGladrey, stay in my own bed, so that'll be nice.   It's huge if I can get off to a good start.

Q.   Seems like wine agrees with you?
HUDSON SWAFFORD:   Absolutely.   I've had a good trip here, a couple glasses of wine and a little golf. 

Q.   Did you get a sponsor exemption or did you end up getting in on a number?
HUDSON SWAFFORD:   My number would have got in, but I stayed with a Web.com spot.   I can't thank the Frys and Duke Butler and those guys enough for letting me have a chance. 

Q.   Did you think that there was something out there with the wind that you could get up there and get close, or all of a sudden you were 5‑under and‑‑
HUDSON SWAFFORD:   Yeah, it kind of laid down now, which is kind of disappointing.   I didn't want to see that because it was pretty windy there for a while.   It was gusty.   That was what was tough.   It wasn't a constant breeze, it was a lot of gusts.   This is a pretty tight golf course.   It's a premium hitting the fairway.   I made a lot of nice swings and made that eagle putt, I was like, all right, something is nice, and then had a really good break on No.10, kind of drove it in the rough and hit that tree.   It was going at the pin, which is unlucky, but then it bounced on the left side of the green, so I ended up with an easy par there, so that was nice, and just unfortunate swing at 13.   I don't really know what happened or not, just a little mis‑hit and rode the wind, but all in all, really solid day.

Q.   How much more relaxed do you feel with a good finish under your belt to start the season? 
HUDSON SWAFFORD:   Not so much relaxed, just‑‑ it's a confidence builder, really.   Going into a three‑week stretch‑‑ I like playing about three weeks in a row.   I feel like some of my best golf comes actually in the second week, so to kind of get off and start hitting the ball really well on Sunday here and kind of get myself in contention you could say and feel that pressure again, it was good.   I think my game handled it pretty well.   It tested every bit of it this week, so I'm just looking forward to the next couple weeks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT