QUICKEN LOANS NATIONAL
June 27, 2014
Hudson Swafford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Thoughts on your play?HUDSON SWAFFORD: Played really solid the last two days.  It was windy both rounds.  Didn't get ahead of myself, was really patient today. Made a poor club decision on No. 3 and hit it over and made bogey, and was actually 1-over through seven holes.  Just knew you couldn't press out here.  Tried to just keep plugging along, and I reeled off three in a row. So you never know when that can happen, and it can happen quick.  So just got to be patient.  Tough golf course.
Q. You're playing by the formula, hitting over 70 percent of your fairways and 75 percent of your greens.HUDSON SWAFFORD: That's key out here.  Fairways are definitely key.  When I've hit it in the rough, I've had good angles.  I could advance it mainly to the green except for one lie, 14 yesterday. I've been fortunate there, missed it in the right spots and just not trying to beat myself, just being patient, not trying to force anything because you can't force anything out here.  Just really staying patient and picking good targets and making aggressive swings.
Q. You look like you're having a lot of fun out there.HUDSON SWAFFORD: I am.  My caddie, DJ and I, are just joking around, enjoying the walk and enjoying the good weather.  It was a little hot today but not 105 like it was a couple years back.  It's good, enjoying it, got my wife in town and just relaxed and playing some golf.
Q. Thoughts on your round today.HUDSON SWAFFORD: I played really solid today.  The wind was up today and it was playing tough.  I was 1-over through seven, but I knew to be patient and keep plugging along.  That's what I've been trying to reiterate to myself lately. For about a month and a half, I was trying to put too much pressure and trying to do too much.  Now I'm just trying to have fun and go back to the basics and pick good targets and when I get a birdie chance, try to make it and roll it in, and just not beat myself here the last two days; and really in Hartford, had a chance on the back nine but made a couple bad swings, but really good last week leading into this week.
Q. Was there something you found in your game the last two weeks?HUDSON SWAFFORD: Not really the last two weeks.  It started to click more in Memphis in the U.S. Open qualifier.  Been working on a lot of good stuff with my teacher, Mike Taylor, and started working with Dr. Gio Valiante and having a new perspective and outlook instead of trying to force things.  Just staying patient and picking my shots and areas, and you never know when you can reel off three in a row. A month and a half ago, getting 1-over early, I would kind of start to press and on this golf course, you definitely can't do that.  Just got to slow down, make some pars.  You never know, hit a wedge shot close, make a birdie and reel three off.  Just got to be patient out here and that's what I'm trying to do each and every day.  It's been going really well the last month.
Q. Is that your mind-set going into the weekend, be patient and pick your spots as you go forward?HUDSON SWAFFORD: Absolutely.  I'm striking the ball I think just wonderfully the last, really, three, four weeks.  I've really hit the ball well, putting good, chipping good, just doing everything pretty solid.  Just give myself chances come the weekend.  Not trying to do too much.  Just. Conservative golf; conservative aggressive golf, the way we talk, picking good lines, making aggressive swings but not trying to come up with a heroic shot.
Q. You got into the field Wednesday?HUDSON SWAFFORD: Wednesday afternoon.
Q. What were you doing the previous couple days?HUDSON SWAFFORD: I came here on Sunday.  I knew I was first-alternate last Friday, and so I played well last week at Hartford and came down here Sunday night, just kind of rested, came out here on Tuesday, got good work in, my caddie and I.  Just got the prep in like I was in the tournament, because usually being first-alt on the Friday before the tournament, usually somebody is going to pull. It didn't look that way; didn't look that way.  And then thanks to William McGirt coming up to my on the range when I went out for a little practice session, he came up to me and said, "I'm not feeling good."  I think his back was struggling a little bit and said he was going home, and I can't thank him enough.
Q. What's that like, maybe you get in, maybe you don't.  How do you mentally try to deal with that?HUDSON SWAFFORD: Just stay relaxed and do your weekly routine like you're in the field.  I actually had the same situation at the Honda but I got in on Tuesday. So you know, I did my prep like I was going to be in the tournament thinking one out, I'll get in.  But being the small field that it is and an Invitational, people usually don't pull out.  That was lingering, but still thought being first-alt, somebody is going to pull out.  So did my prep.  Got comfortable on the golf course and just did my weekly routine and it's paid off.
Q. What's it like seeing your name up there on a pretty tough course?HUDSON SWAFFORD: It's good.  Just showing that my course strategy and what I'm doing is paying off.  I feel like I've played in a pretty tough wave with the wind both days.  I was early yesterday and didn't have much wind the first five holes but after that it was playing really tough.  This afternoon it was just gusty. My caddie and I picked some really good targets and sticking to it.  Par is just a really good score on some holes.  You just can't force anything.
Q. That being said, I'm sure you'd like to know what you're doing on Wednesday from now on.HUDSON SWAFFORD: Having to come into the week when you're there, getting on site and knowing that you're in is definitely a better feeling than the first-alt.
 
 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT