SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 10, 2014
Hudson Swafford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Well played out there, bogey‑free, 6‑under par.   What was the key to your round?  
HUDSON SWAFFORD:   Just if I hit it in the rough, try to hit it to the front of the green.   Yesterday I tried to do a little too much out of the rough, and it was very costly, made five bogeys yesterday.   Very similar today, though.   I made six birdies, made five yesterday, so just a little more defense today.   A little more well thought out.  
   
 Q.   Was there a difference in conditions between yesterday afternoon and this morning?  
HUDSON SWAFFORD:   You know, not really.   I mean, it wasn't really hard wind, but it was gusty, a little breezy.   I gave myself a lot of chances today.   I think I only missed like maybe one, two greens.   Yesterday if I missed a green, it was long.   You can't be long out here.   That's pretty penal.  
I played a well thought out round of golf and executed nicely.  
   
 Q.   Of course you, Harris English, Matt Kuchar, Davis Love, I think Brian Harmon, a bunch of other guys live down there at Sea Island.   How much help have they been to you?  
HUDSON SWAFFORD:   They've been a huge help.   Having Brian Harmon and Harris English, playing college golf with them, them having success out here, just knowing that if I get out here and when I get out here, I can compete with these guys.   It's all about getting comfortable, and I've surrounded myself with some veterans, some young guys who have had some success.   I see the best in the world each and every week when I'm home.   We have good money games when we're home.   Those guys help me with course strategy, what courses are going to set up well for me.   No, it's been a big help.   I really enjoy hanging out with those guys and learning from them.  
   
 Q.   What's going to be the key for you this weekend?  
HUDSON SWAFFORD:   Just kind of what I did today, to be honest with you.   If I get out of play‑‑ today if I missed the fairway I was on the right side of the hole to attack, at least to be able to hit a good shot, land it on the front and run it up.   
I didn't hit any drivers today.   I just kept it in front of me.   If I missed the fairway, like I said, I could get to the front of the green, middle of the green.   So just kind of that approach, just leave it below the hole, and that gives you a lot of chances.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT