SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 26, 2018
Hudson Swafford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Hudson, talk about today.  You have to be pleased.  Tough conditions and that was a good round of golf.  
HUDSON SWAFFORD: I just scored really well.  My putting really kind of bailed my out today.  I feel really confident with that.  Need to clean up my iron play a little bit.   
I hit a lot of green but it wasn't very close.  Yesterday I drove it really well.  Maybe a little touch off with the irons, but like I said, I just hilt a lot of greens.  Feel really confident with the putter.   
That's kind of the game plan.  Was maybe just struggling just a bit with my irons coming into this week.  I kind of knew that, so just be patient and give yourself as many chances as possible.  I know I'm putting well, so...   
 Q.  Weather is a going to warm up starting tomorrow.  That's got to be a good thing.  
HUDSON SWAFFORD: Yeah, might be able to start feeling my hands a little better and hit it a little closer.  No, looking forward to the warmer weather for sure.   
 Q.  Do you like the bermuda golf course?  I mean, it's all over the place.  
HUDSON SWAFFORD: Oh, yeah.  It's what I grew up, what I'm accustomed to.  I mean, it plays a big factor in the game.  It's a lot different than what we normally play.  This is what I play at home, so used to it, know it, understand it.   
No, I'm looking forward to the weekend.   
 Q.  The pro-am you had a chance to play with Herschel.  1982 Heisman trophy winner.  You being a Bulldog, that had to be a big deal.  
HUDSON SWAFFORD: It was great.  We had a blast.  It was more storytelling than golfing going on.  Had a great group.  Telling stories of guys I know that he's really close with.  Just exchanging stories.  Was a good afternoon.   
 Q.  What a good guy, though.  One of the greatest players ever, maybe the greatest in the Southeastern Conference.  I don't know.  It's arguable.  What a humble guy?  
HUDSON SWAFFORD: Oh, it was unbelievable.  I met him a couple times passing at Georgia obviously, but just to spend that much time with him and just hear his perception.  I think his caddie actually played all the holes except for three and he just carried his bag and just talked to people outside the ropes.  That's the kind of guy he is.   
You would never know that he did anything in football, that he accomplished anything.  Just great guy.  Very humble.  Very business savvy.  It was great talking to him and just seeing his afterlife after football.   
 Q.  That's neat.  Last question.  It's a big one.  Georgia-Florida tomorrow.  How is it going to play out?  
HUDSON SWAFFORD: It's going to be a close one, but I think we squeak it out.   
 Q.  Do you?  Bulldogs are going to beat the Gators?  
HUDSON SWAFFORD: Yeah.   
 Q.  I mean, you had to got that way, even though Matt Every earlier told us he thinks the Bulldogs are going to beat his Gators.  
HUDSON SWAFFORD: I mean, after the big game at LSU, week off, get some injuries healed, light a fire and be ready to go.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT