RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 28, 2018
Hudson Swafford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  If we could get a couple comments, you put yourself in good position going into the weekend.  
HUDSON SWAFFORD: Yeah, absolutely.  I gave myself a lot of chances.  It was kind of a -- I played really solid.  Yesterday afternoon was pretty tough, Friday afternoon, and I had some good looks that kind of lipped out coming in, and then made a bogey on 9.  But played some really good golf yesterday.  Played great golf the first day.  Today was kind of battling the weather, and it wasn't -- wasn't swinging it that great early, but was super patient.  I just told Deej, let's get nine looks on the back.  The putter feels great, I'm seeing the lines, I'm rolling it great.  Let's just get on the greens as quick as possible and I know I'm going to make some putts.   
We started doing that on the back nine, started getting ourselves -- not hitting perfect shots, just trying to get it -- just hitting numbers and played a little conservative and made a few putts, and we've got a chance.   
 Q.  Coming into the week, you were outside the Top 125 in the FedExCup.  Coming into the week did you look at this as a good opportunity to make a push?  
HUDSON SWAFFORD: Oh, yeah.  I played well here a few times.  I like this golf course.  I've been hurt all year, sat out seven weeks leading up to the Greenbrier.  It's kind of been -- it's been a bad year.  Got hurt the week of San Diego.  So really my goal coming back, because I couldn't take a medical or anything, was just not to have any setbacks.  I started feeling pretty good, started swinging pain-free finally for the first time in a while.   
So really the goal is to be healthy come October 1st for the start of the new season.  My position -- I tried to chase it early in the year and reinjured my injury.  Really I'm not trying to overdo it, but this is a golf course I like and I enjoy playing.  So I knew I was swinging at it pretty well, knew I was rolling it well.  Just come out and play some solid golf, do what I've been working on, see if it pays off and if it works.  So we've got a chance.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT