AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 25, 2020
Belinda Bencic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. KONTAVEIT/B. Bencic   
6-0, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  I think she started off the match with, like, 15 winners and only 2 unforced errors for a long time in the stats. Curious what you can do when an opponent is playing like that.  
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, definitely she played a great match. Really solid. Of course I think I was a little bit, how you say, overwhelmed. I don't think I started really well, so I kind of, like, started 0-3, 0-4, and then it's difficult. Obviously she's very confident after that, and she played great swinging. Yeah.   
 Q.  You spoke about how difficult it was to handle her playing so well. How do you try and get past that in games when it is so difficult, so much is going against you out there?  
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, I mean, there is not much you can do. You can just try and fight. Obviously it didn't work out for me today. I didn't feel my best on the court, but she was playing really well.   
Definitely, yeah, I was trying to hang in there, trying to fight. I was looking at the clock, it was, like, 30 minutes. I was, Okay, I need to get a little bit more time on the court.   
Yeah, didn't work out well for me today, but I'm really happy for her, because last time we were supposed to play, something bad happened to her, so now I'm really happy for her.   
 Q.  When the match is not close in the end, does it make it at all easier to process in terms of disappointment, in terms of that?  
BELINDA BENCIC: I was also thinking about this after the match. I was, like, is it worse to lose 7-6 in the third or 6-0, 6-1? I'm not sure. It's like you never had a chance to win the match, kind of. When you lose 7-6 it's a little bit more, how you say, bitter because you had a chance.   
I think every loss, it's difficult.   
 Q.  You have put a lot of energy into last season to making Shenzhen, had that great tournament in Moscow to win that. Any carryover from that run to get to Shenzhen to early start of the season?  
BELINDA BENCIC: I don't really think so, because I think I'm a slow starter anyway for new season. I need kind of my time, my matches to get in. I definitely gave it everything to get to Shenzhen.   
Yeah, but I had a good preparation. I had some practice. Now obviously it's important to get my matches in and just try to find my rhythm again.   
I'm sure, like, if I keep working and, like, playing more matches, I think it will come at some point. So hopefully.   
 Q.  Did you stay up to watch Roger last night?  
BELINDA BENCIC: No, actually I fell asleep. He won the third set, but then it was the first thing in the morning I watch, and I was, like, Wow. Then I saw that he was 8-4 down in the tiebreak, so I was so happy he won, yeah.   
 Q.  We have seen a lot of seeds lose games these past few days. Is there anything special or different this year? Who do you think is left in the field as the favorites from now?  
BELINDA BENCIC: I think every Grand Slam there are seeded players losing, so I think this Grand Slam was even the best because no top-10 player lost in first round.   
I don't know. It's the same on every Grand Slam. There is upsets, and I think it's normal, because, yeah, it's tennis, and tennis is very unpredictable.   
I don't know. I don't really care so much now who is going to win (smiling).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT