SHISEIDO WTA FINALS SHENZHEN
October 27, 2019
Belinda Bencic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. BARTY/B. Bencic   
5-7, 6-1, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How is the foot? What was the issue?  
BELINDA BENCIC: I just felt a little bit of a pain on my foot during the match. It was around 5-All. Yeah, it was bothering me a little bit. I just tried to take the physio, tried to fight. Obviously, yeah, was not enough.   
For sure, not the reason I lost. I think I played amazing tennis. I think Ashleigh played amazing. I think her serving is pretty impressive. She definitely played very well today.   
Hopefully I can take a day off tomorrow. I'm pretty familiar with what's going on with my foot, so I can rest. Hopefully it's going to be okay for my next match.   
 Q.  You say you're pretty familiar. Have you had this issue before, ongoing?  
BELINDA BENCIC: No, I mean, since Cincinnati I have a little bit, but it was totally fine. Now it came back little bit.   
 Q.  It was your first time playing Ash. What did you make of her game? What did you think she did particularly well? Where did you find that you were able to impose your game and where did you find she was able to impose hers?  
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, I think her serving is what really makes the difference because it's more like a guy's serve than, yeah, a woman's serve. It's a little bit different.   
Overall I'm also a little bit surprised with myself. I played so well. I thought, like, her game is going to match up not so good with mine. Honestly, I think I gave her some troubles, too, played some great points, somehow adapted to her game and spin and slices.   
I think most I was troubled by her serve.   
 Q.  With this being your first time competing in a round-robin, how are you going to mentally reset, get ready for the next one?  
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, it's really special. I lost, but I can still have a chance. That's what my team kind of told me when I got out. They were super positive because I played so well. I don't know, it wasn't enough. Still I have a next chance. They told me right away, C'mon, you're still in, playing very well. They were very proud of me.   
Positivity is the key, so hopefully I can win the next match like this.   
 Q.  We don't know the order of play for the next round yet. You know the next two opponents pretty well. Talk through the matchups, Petra or Naomi.  
BELINDA BENCIC: I will play Petra because she lost and I lost. It's kind of to make it not decided yet. The losers play each other and the winners play each other. One of them loses, so it's exciting for you till the end. I play Petra.   
Yeah, we played in Beijing. She's a big hitter. Obviously I know much about her now. I'll just try to, yeah, dictate the points, have a good serve. Hopefully that will be enough.   
 Q.  Martina Hingis was here today. Did you talk to her? When you were growing up, did you learn from her?  
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, Martina, I didn't see her on the tournament. She texted me she was coming. I knew she's the ambassador of the tournament.   
We had a little chat after Moscow. I didn't see her yet. When I see her, for sure we will chat.   
Of course, yeah, I learned everything when I small from her. She was my idol when I was growing up. I was practicing at her mother's academy. For sure, she taught me a lot of things.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT