BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 15, 2019
Belinda Bencic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. KERBER/B. Bencic
6-4, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You had that 4-2 lead early and it looked like it was going to be kind of a battle of the baseline.  What do you think she was able to do to flip things into her favor?
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, it was 4-2, but I didn't feel like I was really in the lead.  I was really up and down in the start.  I just didn't figure out so much what to do against her to make -- you know, she took my weapons away with how she was playing against me.  So I think she did that well.
Obviously she's a great baseline player, so she's not gonna miss.  Definitely she put the wall mode on (smiling).
Q. When you say that she was able to neutralize your weapons with what she was doing, what do you mean by that?
BELINDA BENCIC: I just think, you know, the angles are what she's doing.  Also, it's the opposite for me, you know, with the lefty.  She's using that very well and very smart, I think.
Yeah, definitely I didn't really figure out in the last matches what to do against Angie to beat her.
Q. In general, how do you feel about this run?  It's been up and down with injuries.  How are you feeling at the end of this?
BELINDA BENCIC: I mean, like, physically?
Q. Yeah.
BELINDA BENCIC: Really good.  Actually, I have no problems.  I'm just a little bit tired because it's way past my bedtime (smiling).
But otherwise, physically really good.
Q. If it wasn't past your bedtime, what would you be doing chilling out at the hotel by now?
BELINDA BENCIC: Now?  I would be sleeping.  Really, nothing else to do.
Q. What do you take away from this two weeks and taking to Miami?
BELINDA BENCIC: Well, definitely a lot of confidence, for sure.  Yeah, just, you know, to believe in my game, that it's working really well.  You know, I'm playing very freely on the court.
And I think I improved in some things and every matches you learn.  Even today I learn so much.  So definitely every experience and confidence.
Q. You have always been marked as someone who is a very good tactical player, but what do you think you have built on since starting out?
BELINDA BENCIC: I think the problem-solving.  I think that was the key, as well, today.  Maybe I didn't have quite enough energy to problem-solve today, especially against Angie, who is, you know, very clever on the court.
So definitely I'm improving that.  Yeah, just -- I don't know.
Q. Is the overall emotion right now, you know, yes, Miami is right around the corner, I get to get back on to the tennis court and try this all again, or is it, I don't want to look at another tennis racquet for a while?
BELINDA BENCIC: Obviously I'm definitely disappointed I lost today, especially with the way I didn't play great at all, I feel.  But of course credit is to Angie because she didn't make me -- or let me play great.  Yeah, definitely disappointed and therefore tired, as well, but mentally, of course.
So definitely one, two days off would be great.  But I'm sure once I arrive in Miami, I will be super, you know, hyper again to play.
Q. Winning is a habit, but it's made up of other work habits and efforts you make.  What are you doing now that's different than, let's say, two years ago?
BELINDA BENCIC: I think my head is different.  You know, definitely I'm healthy.  Of course I'm playing.  But my mindset is different.  You know, work-wise, it's kind of always the same.
I feel of course you have to improve the fitness a lot.  So definitely there I'm doing some different things.
But overall, in general, it's not a big change.  It's just very mental.  You know, in the top 100, everybody can hit the ball the same, but it's just the head, the mental part.
Q. Is it like an element or perspective as well having had so many injuries your perspective of being able to play and healthy has changed a little bit?
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, definitely.  I have talked about that a lot.  It's just that I was so happy to be back on the court, and definitely I feel like losing is not the worst thing anymore.  The worst thing is not being able to play at all.  I think that definitely helps.
Q. When your dad came down, it was an animated back and forth discussion.
BELINDA BENCIC: Yes (smiling).
Q. I don't understand Slovakian, but can you just kind of summarize...
BELINDA BENCIC: Slovakian is very animated, that's why it seems (smiling).
No, of course, but, you know, on the court I'm very emotional, and he's also emotional.
So I just, you know, have to let it out, let go what I have to say.  Obviously try to take some tips from him.
I just -- yeah, I told him that I cannot figure out her game right now and that I wasn't sure, you know, what to do from certain situations.  Yeah, he just tried to help me, you know, with stepping into the court and playing my game.  I definitely tried to do it, but today was just not my day or my night (smiling).
Q. Martina Hingis has a new baby, but have you had any communications with her throughout this...
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, I mean, she sent of course the photo and when it's born to the Fed Cup chat.  We are all in great contact.  Also throughout the whole year, not only during the Fed Cup weeks, I feel like our team is really complete.
Yeah, she sent it to there, and we haven't seen the baby yet, but it looks really cute on the photos.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT