DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 23, 2019
Belinda Bencic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








B. BENCIC/P. Kvitova
6-3, 1-6, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: First question for our champion, please.
Q. Has it sunk in yet?
BELINDA BENCIC: No.  I've just come off the court, doing press.  It will sunk in later when I will be on my own, maybe relax.  Maybe even tomorrow while skydiving.
Q. What are your thoughts on that?  Kind of an up-and-down match.
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, obviously very up-and-down match.  With Petra, it's like this.  She's hitting full power, so it was incredibly tough first set, as well.
Second set, I think I missed by little in the start of the games, then she gained a lot of confidence.  She was playing great.  She was serving great.
I'm really happy about how I managed to turn the momentum around in the third set.
Q. What does it mean to you to win this?
BELINDA BENCIC: It's unbelievable.  It's incredible.  I mean, I still cannot believe it.  Especially I'm realizing after two rounds, we were already saying, Wow, this is a great tournament.  Now it's only bonus.
Then I won against Sabalenka after being out already.  We said the same thing again.  Really, the expectations after two rounds were not there any more.  So many times I was close from defeat.  It's unbelievable that I ended up winning this.
Q. You've beaten four of the best players of the last few months all in a row.  Do you feel differently now about your level stacked up against the top 10, or is it validation at this point?
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, I mean, of course they are very high-quality players, all of them.  I'm so happy about the consistency that I could back up my wins.  After playing a tough match, I could mentally win another one.  It's very difficult.
Yeah, just very proud of that.
Q. You'd never taken a set off of her in previous meetings.  What was your mentality?  What do you think you did differently?
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, I have huge respect from Petra because she's amazing player.  She's such a champion.  I really didn't believe all the match that I can beat her.  Really, that was my mentality.  I was just trying to get from point to point, getting closer, getting closer.  I was not thinking too far ahead.
After when I won, it was incredible.  Of course, even to win a set already, it would have been amazing.  I just tried to get closer this time than I was in Australia.  I hoped that it would be enough.
Q. When you come into a tournament like this, most of the top 20 were here, how do you approach that?  How do you see your chances?
BELINDA BENCIC: I mean, obviously I'm not coming into this tournament thinking about winning at all.  It's really seeing who I play first round.  You just see the first round, you try to win that.
As I said, after I beat Voegele, to be in the third round, the tournament was great for me, solid.  To beat Sabalenka was a bonus.  I didn't have to beat her, she's top 10, she had the pressure.
Basically after these two rounds, I was just going forward.
Q. You mentioned on the court your fitness, that you feel good.  Is this the fittest you've ever felt?
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, definitely.  I actually wanted to say that on the court.  This is definitely the fittest I've ever felt.  I think it's showing a lot in my game.  I definitely need it.  I think we did amazing work over there last year.  Martin is my fitness coach for the past year now.
Yeah, I mean, we did amazing work.  It showed.
Q. Is it a good time to start going skydiving?  Are you worried about injuring yourself?
BELINDA BENCIC: No.  We are in the plane anyway all the time, so...
My dad is saying, Why risk your life, stuff like that.  There is no risk, I think.  Bunjee jumping is worse (smiling).
Q. You want to bunjee jump, as well?
BELINDA BENCIC: No, I don't want to do that.  Skydiving, it's on my to-do list.  We have to do it anyway in my life.  We can do it now.
Q. You plan on doing the one above the Palm Jumeirah?
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, it's the first thing we will do in the morning.  I'm providing a lot of heart attacks on the court.  Now I'm going to provide heart attacks off the court.  I mean it very seriously, yeah.
Q. The match might feel kind of like a blur.  Do you remember how you were feeling early in the third, how important those early games were to you?
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, actually surprisingly I was feeling less nervous than yesterday, even in the second set.  Petra was playing very good.  I started to miss a little bit, as well, because she was putting pressure on me.
Yesterday I felt like it was slipping away from me a little bit.  This third set, I was not thinking about the victory at all.  That's why I was calm.  That was my mental plan actually.
Of course, in the last game at 5-2, I was super nervous.  But I'm happy I just somehow put the ball in and won the game.
Q. I asked your father at the beginning for an interview.  He said after the quarters.  Is that the sense you had from the beginning, especially after the quarters?
BELINDA BENCIC: I don't know why he said it.  Maybe he wanted to get rid of you (laughter).  But now he has to give you the interview, yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT