THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 3, 2018
Belinda Bencic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








B. BENCIC/C. Garcia
7-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Can you just talk through that match and how much confidence were you going into the match with?  And what do you think the key was for the win?
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, I mean, the key to win the match was for sure I think to play like smart.  You know, I didn't think I played, like, my greatest-ever tennis, but I think on grass it's not possible.  You just need to be ready, you know, the serve, return, next shot and just start the rally really good.
Obviously today there was no long rallies, which I normally like to do.  My confidence cannot be, like, amazing but I think it was good.  I was practicing good this week.  I'm feeling my game coming better and better.
In Paris it was, like, zero from 100, you know.  And 's-Hertogenbosch got better and then I got more confidence.  The practices were good.  Yeah, as best as it could be, yeah.
Q. And after a win like that, how are you feeling?
BELINDA BENCIC: Very relieved.  Of course, first round, and, you know, a big win is -- you never know what happens.  I had 5-2 and then she holds a very tough game.  I was pretty nervous to go out there and serve it out.  It's already relief when you win no matter who you play.
Q. I know it's been a few years, but having won the junior title here, when you return to the grounds and just step on the grass, does that carry over from year to year?  Do you still gain something from that?
BELINDA BENCIC: I have to say every time I come here, I'm, like, excited and amazed like the first time I was here, so I hope that feeling never goes away.  I don't think it ever gets old here.
It's magical every time you come here.  It's, for sure, my favorite tournament.  I keep saying that every year.
Obviously it helps having played juniors here.  You feel like you have already been here.  You, like, I don't know, you're supposed to be here (smiling).  And, yeah, these kind of feelings.
Q. Obviously with the win at the Australian Open in the first round, knocking out Venus, and then here, you're not an easy draw in the first round, I think most people know that, but are there similarities between those two results to you at all?
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, similarities.  Also with the mentality I went into the match.  Of course I was, both times, it's like top-10 player.  First round of the Grand Slam you have, like, another 127 other players you could face.
It's very tough, but you go into the match with, like, not no expectations but just, like, the pressure is on her side and you can just play.  Obviously you know that you have to play on your limits to beat her and you can't just have a bad day and play.
So you really have to be at the top of your game to beat these kind of people in the first round.
Q. But when you score a win like that, obviously you open up your own draw in a way?
BELINDA BENCIC: Well, I don't think that's true, because the next round is even more tough, I would say.  Like, she's playing great on grass.
I don't think it ever opens up, because the people are so close now, the players, especially in the woman's game.  It's never, oh, like now it's an easy round, I can just pass that.
It's really every game you have to be very, very focused because everybody beats everybody.
Q. Do you think you can go into the next round against Ali and have the same mentality as you did going into this match?
BELINDA BENCIC: Well, I will definitely try to have.  She's definitely been playing better, I would say, this year and especially on the grass, so I will try to go with the same mentality.
Of course it's a little bit more equal now with the rankings, but, yeah, I just -- I won the first round, so now let's see.
Q. Physically, with all the injury concerns obviously in the past, how has your body reacted on the grass season?
BELINDA BENCIC: Now it's good.  I have zero concerns.  But, you know, guys, you always ask that and I say, Oh, it's good now, and then I get injured again.
Q. So it's terrible?  Everything hurts and everything is bad?
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, I'm fine, I'm still here, I'm surviving, but let's not jinx it (smiling).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT