AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 14, 2017
Belinda Bencic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How did you find out about your first-round opponent?  What was your reaction?
BELINDA BENCIC: Twitter (smiling).  My Twitter was blowing up.  I was like, What's going on?  That's when I saw it.
My first reaction was actually, like, really happy.  So I think I'm super pumped, like excited I get to play on the big court, I guess.
Yeah, like everyone is like, Oh, bad luck with the draw.  Me, I'm, like, pretty happy and excited about it.
Q. Why do you think it's not bad luck?
BELINDA BENCIC: Well, I think we're going to play on the big court.  It's a big match, playing against Serena Williams.  It's what everyone's working for.  To play Australian Open, of course like first round, but that's how it is.  I'm just pumped about it, yeah.
Q. What are your memories of that match at the Rogers Cup against her?
BELINDA BENCIC: Memories, like, they never go away.  They're always there.  The best ones, for sure.
I still remember, like, the last game, like every point, everything.  It was, for sure, my biggest win until now.
I hope I can take this memory and put it to positive energy to be, like, super confident on the court, and play good.
Q. Do you remember thinking after that match or when you talked to your father, whoever, about what exactly you thought you did well in that match to get that win?
BELINDA BENCIC: Yes, I think I did very well that I always, you know, even though she killed me the first set, I always stayed there, putting the balls back, playing, trying the best.  I always was there.
At some point she also got a little bit, like, down in the match.  That's where I kind of could take the overhand and get to the third set, yeah.
Q. It seems as though you've had a tough time in the last year or so physically.  How do you feel right now?  If we were to look at 100%, where are you right now?
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, exactly, last year was very tough.  I got one injury, then it was a circle into the next one.  I just didn't stop.  I was really happy about it.  I came back, didn't play very good.
Now I think I'm really motivated to play, first of all.  I'm so happy to be here.
Physically I have nothing that bothers me, except this thing in Sydney.  No, I think I'm pretty close to 100%.
Q. People see you as a dangerous floater, somebody who can cause trouble.  Do you feel yourself that way?  Do you feel like somebody that Serena should be not afraid of, but somebody that can possibly make some noise here?
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, of course I want to see myself that way.   I think I had good result when I was playing.  Of course I was injured.  It was not that great.  But first of all, every first-round opponent is a dangerous floater, so you have to be careful with everyone.
But, I mean, we played each other two times already.  We both know what to expect now.  I think it will be, for sure, a good match, yeah.
Q. How is the toe?
BELINDA BENCIC: It's good.  It fell off (laughter).  If you want to see a video or something.
No, no, it's okay.  The physio take good care of me, they tape it for the match, for the practices.  When I stop, it's not that bad.  I made a hole into my shoe, so I don't put it like this.
But it's a common tennis injury.  It's the first time I had.
Q. Can you talk through your pre-season a little bit.  Where did you do it?  What was the main priority, especially given your last season?  What was the main thing you were working on?
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, I practice in Florida, at Evert Academy.  We flew straightaway to Perth.  I think the main priority was for sure to stay healthy.  I didn't practice that much like I'm used to.  I didn't work that much on fitness, that much on tennis.  My priority was to stay healthy, to always feel good on the court.
I think we did pretty well.  Then I had a great first tournament in Perth, so that help me a lot to get the matches again.  It was amazing.  Put me in a positive mood from the first tournament in the year.
Q. Do you remember what sort of game plan it was that worked against Serena last time?  Are you already thinking, I know it worked, I can do that again?
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, for sure I remember.  I'm going to try to do that again.  I'm not going to tell you now what exactly because then she will know (smiling).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT