BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 12, 2016
Belinda Bencic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
B. BENCIC/L. Davis   
6-3, 3-6, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Can you just talk about the match a little bit?  How do you think it played out?  What were the conditions like out there for your first one?  
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, obviously the first match, for me, it's always very tough.  I have to find my rhythm and just adapt to the conditions.  It's always different than practice.   
Yeah, it's strange here.  You know, the court is slow but the air is so thin so the ball flies.  You really have to find this.  But it's the same thing I had last year.  The first match was so-so and then I got into it.  I hope I can do it at this tournament, too.   
Obviously Lauren, she had a great run.  She played very good, also.  Yeah, I expected a tough match.   
 Q.  When you come into a tournament like this that's so big and the conditions can be a little bit tricky, is it even more nerve-wracking going into that first match?  Are you more nervous?  
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, before the first match I'm always more nervous than already when I'm in the tournament, but I think it's for everyone the same like this.  Yeah, I had a bye now, so it was also good.   
But, you know, every first round is tough.  I mean, today you really can't choose in the draw like who would you like to have.  It's every match is very difficult.  So, yeah.   
 Q.  More often than not you have a bye now into the second round.  It wasn't that long ago that you were constantly playing through quallies.  
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, I remember that.   
 Q.  Can you contrast the two experiences?  Obviously it's great you get byes; you're higher ranked.  
BELINDA BENCIC: I feel like -- you know, I was here on Monday and I didn't play until Saturday, so I was here like and I felt like, Why am I here?  For like practicing or what?  I was playing like, Come on.  I want to play finally again.   
Yeah, it's nice to get the bye so you are in the second round, but sometimes it's also good to play the matches.  But I think, yeah, if I can win two, three rounds in every tournament then it's also fine, because before I played quallies and then I lost in the first round.   
So it was basically the same thing.   
 Q.  You're not playing doubles.  This tournament this year you're going to play less doubles, or is there a thought to that?  
BELINDA BENCIC: No.  I just thought, I mean, I played many matches and if in this tournaments I can win like two, three matches, plus doubles, would be a little bit too much.   
Yeah, mostly now I want to focus on singles.  Maybe now and then when I feel like I want to play or just have fun or need the practice, then I'm going to do it now and then.   
But I'm not gonna set a fixed partner for all the year and we will just decide how I feel.   
 Q.  Apparently this is your 150th win.  
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah?  Okay.  That's a lot.   
 Q.  Seems like a lot.  
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah.  I didn't know.  I still remember my first one.   
 Q.  Obviously this tournament, you said you were here early.  You had no match to play until today.  It's kind of a quiet environment in Indian Wells.  It's very different than, for example, Miami where everybody is kind of downtown.  Do you prefer this or do you prefer a little bit more energy in the city?  
BELINDA BENCIC: That's a tough question.  Here is just very nice because the site is so nice.  Really, like, you enjoy being here all the day.  You don't mind when you're on the courts all the time.   
Miami is also nice.  Like in the evening you can go to dinner and everything.  But also here is a lot nice restaurants.  Yeah, it will be Ultra in Miami, so it will be very busy.   
I like both, to be honest.  Yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT