CHINA OPEN
October 5, 2015
Belinda Bencic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. It was a huge fight today. Down a set and a break. How did you turn this around? It looked pretty exhausting. 
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, I think all my matches at the moment are very tough. Yeah, I think she played very well and we had to fight really long rallies. 
Of course, it's the end of the season. Everyone is like (indiscernible). You try to fight as much as you can. I'm so happy I turned it around. 

Q. You talked about being tired, and this is the last section of the season. What is motivating you? What is your mentality? How different does this time this year feel to this time last year for you?
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, obviously I think this year I played a lot. If you play a lot of tournaments and you lose first round every tournament, it's not a lot. When you play a couple of matches every tournament, you get tired. But I think it's not just me, it's everyone. 
I try to motivate myself and say it's the same for all of the girls. Obviously Singapore is motivating me. Yeah, I'm just trying to get through these last tournaments as good as I can. But it's definitely hard, yeah.

Q. What are you trying to tell yourself to motivate yourself to get up out of bed, go to practice, play your matches, battle hard?
BELINDA BENCIC: I don't know. I mean, I like playing matches. Also physically and in the head you're not as fresh as you was and maybe not as focused anymore. But still you want to play and win, of course, and give your best. 
You play in a huge stadium, so I think you owe the people a good match and a good show. I think that's what keeps you motivated.

Q. You mentioned Singapore. What would it mean to you to qualify?
BELINDA BENCIC: Did I qualify? 

Q. What would it mean to you?
BELINDA BENCIC: Oh, what (laughter). 
I would be so happy. Of course, I would never have thought this season I would get there. Now I'm pretty close. I mean, everybody's pretty close. I saw your tweet, 27 players have a chance to get there. Yeah, I mean, it's just about these last tournaments, who does well gets there. Of course, it's the goal for everyone. 

Q. What did your coach say when he came out on court and seemed to have turned things around today?
BELINDA BENCIC: He's right there. I don't know, what did you say? I didn't listen (laughter). 
No, no, he said obviously that I have to keep playing. 
I said, But I'm tired. 
He said, Yeah, but keep playing. 
I was like, Yeah, should I try to go rallies or not to risk too much, just play the rallies and, yeah, try to push her, but with controlled power. 
Yeah, that's all. 

Q. You've been doing a lot more winning this year. How does that mentality go into tweaking next year's schedule for you, the fact that you're winning a lot?
BELINDA BENCIC: Also, for sure now my ranking allows me just to focus on the bigger tournaments, maybe not to play so much. 
Still, if you lose every first round, it's not a lot, then you need the matches. You have to calculate maybe a little bit better. That's what we're going to do next year I hope. 

Q. When was the last time you fell twice in a row in a match?
BELINDA BENCIC: I don't know how that happened (smiling). 

Q. Fatigue or... 
BELINDA BENCIC: No, I mean, I guess like stupid. No, I don't know. 
At the net, like, it was okay because I kind of changed direction and I slipped. But in the back, I didn't know what I do. Maybe I should watch it. I don't know. It was a bad timing I guess to do this stupid stuff. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT