U.S. OPEN
September 4, 2015
Belinda Bencic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








V. WILLIAMS/B. Bencic
6-3, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Obviously not the result you wanted.  Were you disappointed with the way you played or was it simply Venus was just too good today?
BELINDA BENCIC: No, for sure I think she played very aggressive today.  She served very good.  It was very difficult for me to return her serve and put a little bit pressure on her.
I mean, I breaked her once, I think, which was a good game, but in the other games I didn't have much chance on her serve.
Yeah, also I tried to fight, to hang in there and to play my game, but I really don't have so much time against her to do it.  I tried to start the rallies with her, but it's very tough when she goes for her shots all the time.
Q. Is it remarkable when you think that she played her first US Open the year you were born and here she is?
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, I heard that a couple of times now.  Yeah, I mean, it happens sometimes that the younger will come up.  Maybe when I will be 30 maybe someone young will come up to say, I was born in that year where you started.
Q. You have had a great summer coming in.  Last year you had a great run here.  Disappointed it ends early here?
BELINDA BENCIC: No, really can't complain about my summer.  I had a great summer.  And also, rankings-wise I went up pretty fast.  I won a tough match in the second round and also the first round.
Yeah, it's very unfortunate I had to play her in third round, but it happens sometimes.  I should have dealed with it, but she was just too good I think today.
Q. You obviously played Serena a little while ago and today Venus.  Could you compare their games for us, please?
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, they are both really powerful.  Of course both serve very good and go for their shots.  Pretty aggressive, both.
I just feel like against Venus, I don't know if she does that against me, like she serves very good, and I don't have so much time with her to read her serves or where she goes and just to play my game and start the rallies.
I think with Serena in Toronto I did better.  I could start the rallies and actually try to do something and have a chance to do.
Yeah, today just I couldn't do it.
Q. And of course they may face each other in a bit.  You played both of them.  What are your thoughts?  How would you call that match?  Who do you think would have the upper hand?
BELINDA BENCIC: I have no idea.  I mean, no one knows how they will play each other.  I don't know.  I cannot answer this question.
Q. You made a lot of progress this year.  Do you have any goals for yourself now?  Is it like a ranking goal or what kind of goal?
BELINDA BENCIC: No, I definitely don't have ranking goals.  I think I moved up pretty fast.  I wouldn't have expected that, as well.  So I just take it tournament after tournament.
I have a next chance in like a couple of weeks which is like very good.  Every week you have another chance to prove yourself and do better.  That's just my goal every tournament, to improve and be consistent all the year.
Q. When you were growing up watching tennis, did you grow up watching the Williams sisters and specifically Venus?  And a second question:  What about Venus' game impressed you the most today?
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, of course I watched growing up.  I watched them a lot on TV.  Of course they were on top of the women's game.
Today I think she just played too fast for me.  Her serve was very good.  I didn't have so much chances on the return.  I think I didn't serve so bad.  I could hold my serve a couple of times, but just not in important games.
Yeah, I think she was just too aggressive and I couldn't really find my game and my rhythm.
Q. After 4-1 in the second, did you feel anything change in your game or her game, or did you feel she was just always keep putting the pressure on?
BELINDA BENCIC: Well, 4-1 it was just one break, and after she served good.  And then the game, I don't think I did anything wrong there.  I put first serves in, and she had a couple of winners in that game.  So I feel like it was a little bit unfortunate.
And then I think she was just very consistent at 4-4.  Didn't give me any more chance.
Q. Now that the slams are over, can you assess your slam season?
BELINDA BENCIC: Well, Australia was not good (Smiling.)  Then Paris was better, I think.  I started feeling better there, but I got killed my Madison Keys.
Then Wimbledon I think was very good for me.  I played Eastbourne.  It was a long week, so I was very tired going into Wimbledon.
I won three rounds against opponents like I could and should beat, so it was very good.
Then I lost to Azarenka, which is I think understandable.  She played a very good match there.  This US Open I also, like I played good first round.  Second round I fight through and win a tough match against a very good player.  And now third round against Venus, it's also understandable maybe I didn't win.
Q. After your win over Serena in Toronto, have you noticed a big change in terms of your life or career, like more people recognizing you, more expectations on you, that kind of thing?  Has it changed much for you?
BELINDA BENCIC: I mean, not so much, but I feel like the people recognize me a little bit more.  Sometimes like, Oh, she's the girl who beat Serena.  I don't think they know my name, but they just know I beat her.  (Laughter.)
Yeah, maybe just the interviews and like media attention maybe a little bit more, but I don't feel like it very big change.
Q. It's just been okay?
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah.  I feel normal like I always...  Like it's not a big deal for me.
Q. Did you notice the crowd today?  Did it affect you one way or the other?
BELINDA BENCIC: No.  I mean, it's obvious they were rooting for her.  She's the home player here.  I played Genie Bouchard in Toronto, which was basically the same thing.  I beat Halep in Toronto she had all the Romanians, so it was also the same thing.  (Laughter.)
I think it's just normal when you play home player.  Yeah, I wish we had a tournament in Switzerland so maybe I can feel like that, too.  (Smiling.)
Q. What's the most interesting thing Martina Hingis has ever told you?
BELINDA BENCIC: Everything she tells me is interesting.  I cannot pick one particular sentence or something, but I just listen very carefully to what she says.
I think she has a -- like she understands the game very good and gives me good tactic advice.  I try to listen what she says.
Q. And her experience against the Williamses, can you tell us anything on how she tells you to approach playing them?
BELINDA BENCIC: Well, yeah, she said obviously one day when they are on fire and play very good, it's very tough to play against them.
But I really have to wait for the chance, and if they have a little bit low, I could maybe have a chance to win.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT