U.S. OPEN
September 2, 2015
Belinda Bencic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








B. BENCIC/M. Doi
5-7, 7-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Talk about the last couple of games in the second set.  It was a lot of ups and downs.
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, I had 5-2, I think.  Obviously then started to change the match.  We had a very, very long game at 5-3, which I lost.  It wasn't very helpful.  After I was a little bit emotional.  A bit.  (Smiling.)
Yeah, I'm just happy I could turn it around.  It was a crazy match.  Yeah, sometimes it's tough.
Q. What was in your mind when you were crying?
BELINDA BENCIC: Well, I was really mad.  I was just so frustrated today.  I think we all have not-so-good days, but I was very frustrated for the line calls and the referee.
I know I shouldn't have, like, behaved like that.  For sure I know that.  But sometimes I just can't control myself right now.  I for sure have to be working on that, but I think I'm not the only one who would freak out like this.
Q. Is that something you think takes some more experience on the tour?
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, for sure.  I'm like super exciting.  I wanted to win the match.  That shows it, of course, that I was really fighted and wanted to win.  It wasn't just going my way.
As I told, that was very frustrating.
Q. I see you put out a Twitter thing.
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah.
Q. You just wanted the fans to know you were frustrated?
BELINDA BENCIC: Exactly.  I wanted them to know what I felt like.  I hope the next match will be better.
Q. Is this a match that helps you learn a lot?
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, for sure.  But I think, I mean, if I would lose the match I would be also, like, very disappointed that I didn't manage to mentally hold it.
But I think I turn it around.  That was amazing in the second.  And also that I could have a good start in the third set and don't let her come back again was very important.
So I'm happy I could in the end be mentally tough.
Q. Have you ever cried on court like you did in such a scenario before?
BELINDA BENCIC: You should see me under-12 or under-14.
Q. Looks like Venus next.  She is leading.
BELINDA BENCIC: 4-2, right?
Q. She won.  A little bit about facing Venus.
BELINDA BENCIC: Obviously I never won against her yet.  I played my first WTA match against her, which was a great experience.
And, well, now I really want to win.  I feel like I can have a good plan when I go on the court.
If I will feel good, I think it can be a very interesting match.  I mean, of course, she's a great player.  She hits the ball very hard.  It will be very difficult for me, but we will see.
Q. The women's tour has gotten a lot of attention.  Do you think that's going to endure and attract more sponsors and more attention, close the gap between the women's and men's side of the sport?
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, I mean, of course Serena is a great job for doing that because she's just dominating right now.  Of course she's brought the tennis to be very popular.  It has a lot of attention.  Of course now she's going for like all four Grand Slams, so people are interested if she can do it.
I think it's very good for us when they watch us, yeah.
Q. Before you even had an opportunity to play Venus, what do you remember most about your memories of her and what you saw when you would watch her from afar as she played?
BELINDA BENCIC: Well, of course, Venus and Serena, they was like the first players to come out and started hitting the ball very hard and playing a different style of tennis.  I'm not that type of player, but I will try just to do everything possible tomorrow so I can win.
Q. You mentioned that she was your first opponent on the WTA Tour.
BELINDA BENCIC: The main tour, yes.
Q. What do you remember most about that match and about the opportunity to play against such a legend?
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, I was just really excited coming into the match.  I enjoyed like every moment of it.  I actually, yeah, did four games, I think.  I was just so excited.  I break her once and I return her serve, so I was very happy about those little things.
Yeah, I still remember the match pretty well.  I was 15 years old.  Yeah, I will never forget, for sure.
Q. What's most challenging about her game for you now?
BELINDA BENCIC: For sure her power on the court and that she hits a lot of winners.  Yeah, her serve is pretty fast.
Q. Have you been able to take the court this week without too much pressure or do you feel maybe there's more pressure this year than before?
BELINDA BENCIC: No, I started the tournament very good.  I played a very solid first round.  I really don't feel like I have to prove myself to anyone.
Like I defended my points; I even gained more.  I have all Asia also to win points.  I have nothing to defend.
From my side there's really no pressure.  I enjoy being, like, at my highest ranking and actually play the top players.
And also, the interest of the people is a lot.  They come to watch my matches.  I really enjoy that.
Q. With respect to the emotions today on the court, you said before you go up high but you can get calm pretty quickly.
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, today wasn't the case.  I went up high and I stayed there.  I don't know, maybe I didn't sleep good, but it was all the day like this.
But I'm 18.  My moods are like (indicating up and down.)
Q. You lost the first set and then you came back strongly in the second set.  What didn't work out in the first set?  Did you change any tactics or strategy?
BELINDA BENCIC: Well, first of all, I think my opponent played really good today.  It was very tough match.  We had great rallies, I think.  She plays really fast so I couldn't do much, just try to stay in the rally and put it to her weaker side.
I watch her matches.  She didn't play like she usually does tactically-wise.
Yeah, I just try to do not so many errors as possible and try to have good length.  That was all I could do.
Q. If you looked at a tape of your emotions from tonight in a week or two weeks or a couple of months, what do you think it will make you feel looking back?
BELINDA BENCIC: I will be like, What was she doing or thinking?  (Smiling.)
I don't know.  I for sure will watch it and I try to calm down a little bit in the next matches.  It's my personality on the court.  I am not the player who is the calmest.  I'm very emotional.  That's just how I am.
I think it can also be interesting, though.  (Laughter.)






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT