APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 13, 2016
Belinda Bencic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
B. BENCIC/E. Makarova   
6-0, 2-6, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Maybe you could talk us a little bit through the strange scoreline:  6-0, 2-6, and then a very close match in the third.  How did you see how it played out?  
BELINDA BENCIC: Well, I mean it's normal women's tennis, no?  (Smiling.)  It's not a strange scoreline, I would say.   
No, I mean, I played pretty good in the first set.  I think she didn't play that well.  Then she stepped it up for sure.  So I mean, she played really good in the second set, and then I just tried to stay calm.   
And, yeah, we were very even with the level in the third set so it was a close match.  Then it was about who gets more nervous and stays more mentally tough.  So, yeah, I'm happy I won.   
 Q.  You seemed pretty frustrated, especially during the second set, with maybe a couple calls.  
BELINDA BENCIC: The third set was the calls, yeah.  I mean, I was really frustrated.  They were against me, and I think some people understands also.  I think it was four calls against me in the most important moments.  I mean, it happens on nonTV court, but I was pretty mad.   
 Q.  Is it good for your confidence to come through a match that was so tight in the third set?  
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, also the first round I won such a close match, so it's definitely good even if I'm not playing the best that I can still win these matches.  It's good that just somehow I can fight through.   
 Q.  I think you have a night match tomorrow; is that right?  
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, playing at 8:00, not before 8:00.   
 Q.  Maybe you'll escape the heat?  It's going to be very, very hot tomorrow.  
BELINDA BENCIC: Oh, yeah?  Okay.  As long as it's not the windy I'm fine.  I'm fine with the heat, but no wind, please.   
 Q.  Monica has won six matches in a row and played an incredible match against Stosur tonight.  How much have you seen her play this week?  
BELINDA BENCIC: Definitely she's a good player.  She was well up and coming some time before, and then she had a little bit of a struggle, which is, I mean, quite normal.  Now she's back again and plays really good and knows how to win when she won six matches in a row.   
I definitely expect a tough battle.  She's not in the semifinals for free.  So, yeah, I'll just give my best.  Also I can go to the match very relaxed.  I reached semifinals so I'm very happy about that.  Yeah, just take it easy.   
 Q.  Do you sense more of an opportunity at this tournament with so many withdrawals and players getting sick and a few unseeded people moving through?  Does that make you a favorite in this half of the draw?  
BELINDA BENCIC: No, I mean, no one withdraw against me, so I really had to play every match.  I focused on that.  I didn't watch the draw too much.  What happens up, I don't care.  I just watch my next match.   
Obviously there were a lot of retirements, which is like really shocking, I think.  But, yeah, it's not my business.  I still have to beat the person who's on the other side of the court.   
 Q.  Martina was out there watching you yesterday.  Has she been a bit of a mentor to you?  Has she given you any advice about this tournament?  
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, I mean, all the time when she can she's watching my matches on all the tournaments.  I'm practicing with her mom so she also helps me a lot now on the tournaments.   
Yeah, I mean, definitely she's a big help during my matches.  Yeah, I'm very thankful for this, that's she's finding the time to watch.   
 Q.  What kind of things has she been telling you to do or not do?  
BELINDA BENCIC: Well, mostly technical things.  She knows my opponents pretty well and knows my game as well.   
I think we're now a good team.  Like I really enjoy when she's watching me.  Just gives me positive energy.   
 Q.  Did you feel any sense of expectation?  You're very young and playing so well.  You're coming up in the rankings.  Do you feel pressure at all?  You seem relaxed.  
BELINDA BENCIC: No, I think even because I'm young and up and coming I don't feel any pressure.  Why would I?  I have time, and just no one expects -- well, now the people start to expect a little bit more from me.   
Me, I'm just enjoying to play and to be on the tour and to be now one of the top players.  I'm able to play semifinals tomorrow, so I can really enjoy.  Of course, I mean, a little bit pressure is always for everyone, but, I mean, I have to deal with it.   
I think I'm just taking it relaxed with my team.  I don't care what other people are expecting in me.   
 Q.  You talked the other day about being conscious of the expectations in press and what people say and also people talking on social media.  That can affect a lot of players, but you said doesn't worry you too much.  How are you able to block it out or not get bogged down with negativity?  
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, I mean, you have to look at the people who write this stuff on social media.  What have they reached in life?  I mean, really, I'm looking that way, of course.  Sometimes it's like really negative.   
For me, I try to take the positive things.  I'm having fun on social media.  I think that's the most important thing.  Of course there are always going to be some fans of other players who don't like you.  I think it's normal.  I'm just -- I don't care.  (Laughter.)   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT