APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 12, 2016
Belinda Bencic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
B. BENCIC/T. Pironkova   
6-3, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Firing away today.  How did that feel against a player like Tsvetana who is great on the quick courts?  
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, I think was is difficult game.  Was a lot of wind.  Obviously she plays little different than the others, so I had to fight very hard.  Also mentally I had to stay strong.   
Was closer than the result shows, so I'm really happy I defeated her because she plays great here.  So, yeah...   
 Q.  How good does it feel to have a couple wins under your belt?  
BELINDA BENCIC: Last year was a little bit worse than this year.  I'm happy about that.  I am happy I started well.  For sure I made some points.  I have nothing to defend until like Dubai or something, so it's great I can make some points.  Every round which I win, every match is good.   
 Q.  How much of a confidence booster would it be to go all the way here and go to Melbourne with a title under your belt?  
BELINDA BENCIC: Well, I'm not thinking about the title.  I am in the quarterfinals.  I'm playing Makarova, so it will not be easy.  It's not my way to think of already title.  I'm really focused for tomorrow and happy to be in the quarters first of all; now I want to go step by step.   
 Q.  As you've had more success, how do you make sure to manage your expectations on yourself?  You've had a great last year and I think people expect a lot from you.  How do you make sure to keep that in check for Belinda?  
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, because as you said, it's the people.  It's the press, the other people.  It's really not easy.  You read a lot of comments and news and everything.   
But the people expect you to win the first matches and then to compete against the top players.  For me it's every opponent very difficult and every match starts from new.   
So I really try to focus on that, and I'm happy my team and everyone like keeps me on the ground and we just focus on my game on the court and not what was last year or the expectations.   
It's not easy, and a lot of players are struggling with that.   
 Q.  What's the general feeling in the locker room here with the sort of withdrawals, Serena in Perth and Maria in Brisbane?  
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, it's crazy.  It's like everyone from top 10 withdraws.  I'm happy I'm okay to play.  I feel very good after a good off-season.   
I think in the new year you're supposed to be ready and healthy.  Obviously it's a tough schedule all year.  It's a lot of tournaments.  If you start the year like this then can only get worse.   
Yeah, I'm also a little bit shocked about that.   
 Q.  Do you think they'll all make a miraculous recovery and be ready for Melbourne?  
BELINDA BENCIC: Sorry?   
 Q.  Do you think they'll all be playing in Melbourne?  
BELINDA BENCIC: I mean, for sure they will be playing there.  They don't want to risk anything and try to be ready for Melbourne.   
I mean, for sure they won't retire there.   
 Q.  You're quite active on social media.  Asking about expectations, how do you make sure not to be reading stuff and seeing comments that are critical or people talking about you a lot?  Do you have tunnel vision or...  
BELINDA BENCIC: No, I read everything actually.  I think it's quite funny because it's just people behind the computer writing about how bad your game is and everything.  It's quite amusing.   
I try to take the positive from it, but don't like -- I'm fine to read also the bad stuff.  Doesn't get to me so much.   
 Q.  You being from Switzerland, does it help to have players like Martina and Roger who have some of the attention as well?  
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, I mean, for sure.  It's not all the attention on me.  But it's really nice to have at the moment so many players.  It's good that tennis can be more popular there.  Maybe in Fed Cup we can also do very good.  It's nice that it booms right now and we have four great player, and Martina is No. 1 in doubles.   
Couldn't be better.  It's nice to be among one of those.   
 Q.  Martina and Roger have said they'll play mixed doubles together at Rio.  If you were to make the Olympics, would you like to play mixed doubles?  
BELINDA BENCIC: I mean, I'm ready to play singles, first of all.  It's not up to me if I'm going to play doubles.  I'm not in the position of choosing my partner.  I'm happy to play with anyone.  Yeah, it's not my decision.  I'm ready to play.   
 Q.  You would be ready to play all three events if asked?  
BELINDA BENCIC: If I'm asked, then yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT