WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 18, 2015
Belinda Bencic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 B. BENCIC/A. Kerber
  7‑5, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
   
 Q. How difficult was it to play your biggest match ever on Sunday night and Tuesday you have to start all over again?  
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, for sure it was not easy. We tried from Toronto to get as soon as possible here. We arrived yesterday afternoon and I was able to practice one hour on this court. Things out there are similar to Toronto, so it's good for me.   
Today I wake up early to be able to practice on center court. Yeah, it's a case of quickly adapting, and I'm very happy it went well.  
   
 Q. How did you feel about your game today?  
BELINDA BENCIC: I felt very good. I started very good at 5‑1, and then I think she also played great shots. I mean, it's very different, you know. The stadium is different, the court also a little bit.   
And, yeah, I felt pretty good for the first match, but I think it can also be better. I had some situations where I wasn't so much focused. Yeah.   
   
 Q. Did you feel the crowd support? I heard a lot of cheering for you in the crowd?  
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, yeah. They were very nice. And also, the announcer, he told that I beat Serena and all the players, so they were very cheering for me.  
That's nice to hear.  
   
 Q. You have played Fed Cup quite a bit as a youngster. How much has that experience helped get you where you are today?  
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, it gave me a lot of experience, for sure. I started when I was 14. I was able to see everything, how the press conferences are, the media, the people, and just it's a lot of experience.   
Now I feel like it's nothing new anymore for me. Some people they start Fed Cup when they are like 18, and it also takes some ties to adapt.   
   
 Q. Congratulations on your victory. Please tell us how was to beat in back‑to‑back matches Serena and also in the final Simona Halep?  
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, I mean, it was for sure very difficult. I'm so happy that I could win. It was very nice from the crowd, the great atmosphere on the court. I just tried to fight for every point.   
It's amazing that I could beat so many players so high ranking and top players in the same week. I think I definitely improved my tennis, and I hope I can bring it also to here.  
   
 Q. As a result of winning in Canada, have you readjusted your goals for the year?  
BELINDA BENCIC: No. I don't need to adjust my goals because I don't set them like particularly for the ranking. I just look from match to match. I would never expect to be No. 12 right now.   
Now I'm actually playing, you know, to get to Singapore and I'm just ‑‑I went up high, so, I mean, I will just take it as it is and just take it match for match, like I did today. I didn't think too much about results or what I need to do and points. Yeah.   
   
 Q. At what point did you know you were playing Angelique?  
BELINDA BENCIC: I knew it before Ana Ivanovic, so before my quarter... After? When the draw came out here. Maybe after or before Ivanovic. Before the quarterfinal or after.  
   
 Q. Did that play into your mind at all, higher caliber player like that coming out of the gates...   
BELINDA BENCIC: No. When I was in Toronto I wasn't thinking about this match today. It was just very strange situation. Like you beat Serena in the night session, and then the next day you have to play Halep.  
You have no time actually to enjoy it. You already think the next match. After beating Halep we booked a flight and I was already thinking what I need to do against Kerber.   
So, yeah, it was very quickly. But, I mean, it's a good problem to have. (Smiling.)  
   
 Q. Will you take time out to celebrate your win?  
BELINDA BENCIC: I didn't have so much time. Of course we had a nice dinner afterwards. We went back to the hotel.   
But there was a lot of media to do after the match, a lot of people to meet. It's very stressful to win a tournament, but I think it's a good experience. It's nice stress to have.  
   
 Q. Can you talk about how Martina Hingis has helped you throughout your career and become the player you are today?  
BELINDA BENCIC: Well, obviously I am practicing with her mom, Melanie Molitor, and she just told me like everything, like the basic technique. I started playing tennis by her. Well, first with my dad, but then she was my first coach.   
After, I mean, I made it to the tour, and here is Martina also playing doubles. So she's helping me while I'm on the tournaments, and mostly like in the tactical part. She knows all my opponents, so she can tell me good tips against them.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT