BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 16, 2015
Belinda Bencic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







B. BENCIC/C. Wozniacki
  6‑4, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Can you talk about the difference between today and the first time you played Caroline?
BELINDA BENCIC:   Difference was that I won a game.   (Smiling.)
No, I was really happy after the first game I won, obviously.   I was like, yeah, by the result this time.
No, I think I played more solid.   In Istanbul I had maybe too much respect and I was afraid, nervous.   Today I really had a good game plan.   I did what I had to do.
I served well kind of, and had sometimes some easy points on my serve because of that.   Yeah, overall, I think it was solid match.

Q.   Did that loss, when you played her the first time, affect you, the fact it was so lopsided?
BELINDA BENCIC:   No, I was motivated to win, but I had no pressure going into the match.   It was the past, so it didn't bother me anymore.

Q.   When you talk about the game plan and executing your game plan today, what was it?   How do you attack a player like Caroline?
BELINDA BENCIC:   Yeah, I mean, her, what she wants is the opponent to do many mistakes, because she's really trying to play the rallies.   That's what I tried today, to hold the rallies with her and wait for my chances and be patient and then don't look for the winner too early, because that would be too many mistakes from my side. 
So I think I did that.   Yeah, and other tactical stuff like, yeah. 

Q.   I think this is your first win over a top 5 player. 
BELINDA BENCIC:   It is? 

Q.   I think so, yeah. 
BELINDA BENCIC:   Cool.   Yeah.   Okay. 

Q.   How does that make you feel?
BELINDA BENCIC:   Happy.   Very happy.   I'm really excited.   I mean, I always watched her in TV or when I was a small girl she was idol and a role model for me and for my game.   Yeah, it makes me proud.   Really a big moment for me.

Q.   How do you handle the pressure of being so good so young?
BELINDA BENCIC:   I don't have any pressure.   I mean, I'm just playing.   I mean, I didn't have such a good start to the season, but it's normal that sometimes you don't have every time up.   Sometimes it's also a little bit bad results.
But I think I worked very hard after that.   I played a close match also in Antwerp and then in Dubai and Doha.   Yeah, I think the hard work paid off.   If you work hard you didn't have any pressure because you know what you can, and you try to do that an the match court, as well.   If you have confidence, it's good.

Q.   How much are you working with Melanie Molitor?
BELINDA BENCIC:   Well, I always practice with her when I'm at home.   She doesn't travel with me, but always when I'm at home, I am there, so I was there before this tournament one week.   After Doha, before Dubai.   So, yeah, always.

Q.   That relationship, do you expect that relationship to go on for a while when you're home? 
BELINDA BENCIC:   Yeah, of course.   I have practiced with her since I'm 10.   She was my only coach.   So I think everything is fine.   I'm very happy with the way she helps me, and so thankful for the situation I have.   I couldn't wish for a better coach.   So, yeah.

Q.   What do you think she's expecting out of you this year?
BELINDA BENCIC:   She doesn't expect anything.   She expects to do the things she tells me to do like for my game.   She expects me to give my all every match, but she doesn't like set me under pressure like with the ranking‑wise or something.

Q.   You were talking about dealing with highs and lows.   I know you have had tough lows.   You seem to handle them maturely.   What do you try to do to handle them through the bad times?
BELINDA BENCIC:   It was a low.   I was 17 and I lost three matches, so it was not really a low.   It happens sometimes.   It was very close. 
Yeah, so I just try to look positive and to look forward.   It was not such a big deal with me or my team.   It was just the people did a big hype.

Q.   Your first win over a top 5 player was mentioned.   What will this do for your confidence, do you think?
BELINDA BENCIC:   Yeah, a lot.   It's always great when you beat a top player.   It's all I was dreaming for and wishing for when I was a small kid.   It's unreal I beat a top 5 player. 

Q.   How close do you think you are to going deep at a tournament like this, deep in the tournament or winning?
BELINDA BENCIC:   Yeah, everybody is close.   Everybody could have a deep run or a great series of matches.
It's all really close.   I mean, all the players can beat each other, so it's‑‑ yeah.

Q.   Do you feel ready?
BELINDA BENCIC:   Yeah.   (Smiling.)

Q.   You're still quite fresh off juniors.   Did you imagine it would be so quick coming off of juniors to beating Wozniacki, getting to US Open quarterfinal?
BELINDA BENCIC:   I didn't expect this, but of course I was hoping for it.   I just took it step by step.   If you didn't have any expectations and it's just coming at you, so it's okay.   I'm really happy it's going this way.

Q.   Since Martina is at your matches a lot, has she ever, later in that afternoon, offer a little advice, free coaching advice?
BELINDA BENCIC:   Yeah.   She came to watch today, as well, and the day before yesterday, too.   So I'm really happy for her support and that she finds the time even when she's playing doubles to give me some tips and watch my matches.

Q.   Can you talk about the next round?   It could be Jankovic or Keys. 
BELINDA BENCIC:   Yeah, they are in third set.   I am going to watch it from the physio room.

Q.   Can you talk about playing each one, what your thoughts are. 
BELINDA BENCIC:   I played Jankovic in the US Open, so it's the best memories against her.   I will be very excited to play her again.
But also against Madison, she's a great player, up and coming, as well.   Played semifinals and has a lot of power.   I'm happy to play both‑‑ I mean, each one of them.
Yeah, I will just give my best.

Q.   Had you played Madison before?
BELINDA BENCIC:   No, I never did.   Yeah, I did once.   It was under‑10, Orange Bowl?   Under‑12?   And it was consolation, yeah.   We both lost.   Yeah. 

Q.   How did that match go then?
BELINDA BENCIC:   I lost.   Yeah.   I was 10 and she was 12.   I was 9 and she was 11.   Okay. 

Q.   Good memory. 
BELINDA BENCIC:   He's helping me. 

Q.   Now that this month you turned 18, so the age restrictions have gone.   Did you sort of make like a little Belinda advent calendar where you cross off each day?
BELINDA BENCIC:   Yeah.   I turned 18 this Tuesday, so it was also a special moment for me.   Now finally I don't have to do this schedule so complicated.   I can play whatever I want finally.   Yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT