U.S. OPEN
September 2, 2014
Belinda Bencic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  S. PENG/B. Bencic6-2, 6-1THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. Obviously a disappointment, but you had a lot of breakthroughs in this tournament.  Are you ready to take some positives out of this?BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, for sure it's been a great tournament for me.  I think today I really didn't play my best, but I can take definitely so much positive out of this tournament.  I will work very hard so that I can be in a lot more quarterfinals.Q. Talk about the match today.BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, I think she played really well, for sure.  I didn't do so -- I had like little outs and a lot of unforced errors.  She served good and she didn't let me come to the match back again. So it was a little bit tough, but I think it was awesome tournament for me.Q. You have never played her before, but she's never been to a quarterfinal of a Grand Slam.  Now she's going to the semifinals.  She's not lost a set in this tournament.  She's playing incredible tennis and knocking off some big names.  Just how tough is she playing right now?BELINDA BENCIC: Hard.  I think she has a dangerous game with both hands and the ball is really coming different from her racquet. I had a little bit troubles with this today.  Also angles are great.  She's a great doubles player, as well.  It's good for her.Q. How much have you learned in this period of time in terms of the opportunity to play one of the biggest tournaments in the world and going up against some of the biggest names?BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, I think the biggest experience was that I played twice on the biggest court, on that center court. Next year or in the next tournaments I just have this experience.  I really feel good on these courts.  That's definitely the positive. Also, I played great matches.  I mean, I will just work very hard.Q. How much of today was about she played so well and how much was the new experience of being in a Grand Slam quarterfinals?BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, I think it's both.  I mean, I wasn't nervous or something going to the court.  It was just the little things that didn't work out for me.  I had the small outs; I make some unforced errors and stuff.  She also didn't let me to come into the game again. So it's both.Q. You're up to No. 33, I think.  Pretty incredible rise for you.  You'll probably be seeded in Australia at this pace next year.  What do you make of this whole...BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, it's incredible (smiling).  I mean, yeah, it's my fourth Grand Slam.  Yeah, next year maybe seeded in Australia, it's unbelievable.  Next year I don't have to play any more quallies.  I'm so happy (smiling).Q. What's been the best part of this year for you, this tournament or...BELINDA BENCIC: I think all the year.  I mean, I improved my results always.  I played second round of Australia and third round of Wimbledon and now quarterfinals here, so it's always gone up.  I think it's really positive that I take the small steps, but it goes up always.Q. What do you think next year will bring?BELINDA BENCIC: Oh, I have no idea.  I don't know what next week will bring (smiling).Q. What do you have planned after this tournament and coming up in Asia series?BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, I will play Tokyo, Beijing, and Tianjin.  That's everything for this year because I have age eligibility rule so I cannot play all the tournaments. So, yeah, I will have some time to practice and to work hard and to prepare for the next season and the tournaments.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT