WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2014
Belinda Bencic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







B. BENCIC/V. Duval
  6/4, 7/5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   First of all, congratulations.   You're for the first time in the third round of a Grand Slam.   Do you feel any kind of pressure today, or did you want just to enjoy the moment, your tennis, and so on? 
BELINDA BENCIC:   Well, yeah, I wanted to enjoy the moment for sure, but also I felt a little bit pressure because I was better ranked player in this match.
But anyway, I just tried to focus my match and not to think about against who I play. 

Q.   Can you believe that you won the juniors last year and now you're in the third round of the ladies tournament?   That's a very quick progression.   Is that something that surprised you?
BELINDA BENCIC:   Yeah, I mean, it went really quick.   I don't know if it's a surprise or not.   I'm really happy that I could start in the main draw here after winning the juniors last year.
Yeah, just really happy about that.

Q.   Belinda, we know that you've worked with Melanie Molitor.   Have you been in touch with her here?   If so, what has she told you? 
BELINDA BENCIC:   She just gave meet tips she always give me.   And also for this match she told me some things I have to watch against my opponent.
So, yeah, she help me a lot. 

Q.   And through any of that communication have you ever been in touch and Martina Hingis? 
BELINDA BENCIC:   Yeah, I mean, we are also in touch here.   She is in this tournament.   We also talk with each other because she's also in touch with her mom. 
So it's like this, yeah.

Q.   How much of a better player do you feel you are now compared with one year ago? 
BELINDA BENCIC:   I think I'm more experienced on the WTA Tour.   Before I was just on the junior level and I didn't play so much WTA matches. 
Now I think I'm more consistent in everything, yeah. 

Q.   Is that the main difference, being consistent?
BELINDA BENCIC:   Yeah.   And also don't have the focus ‑‑ losing the focus for some games.   I did it better.   Yeah, just playing the level every match.   Yeah. 

Q.   Maybe you could talk a little bit about the big group of young girls coming through.   You played Duval today who is 18.   There seem to be lots of you who are doing very well at a young age.   Is it an exciting time to be involved with women's tennis with this new group?
BELINDA BENCIC:   Yeah, I mean, it's really nice that so many young players are playing good.   Also Ana.   We played the juniors last year and we're now like on the pro tour.
It's really nice that all these players are coming up. 
Yeah, I think it's really good for women's tennis.

Q.   Now it's tomorrow and it's Halep.   That's another dimension.   Is it dream to now go against somebody...
BELINDA BENCIC:   Of course.   She played French Open final and she's the third seed here, I think.   Yeah?   So I'm really just happy to play her.
No pressure tomorrow.   I will just play my best game. 

Q.   24 hours only between today.   Is it mentally everything is okay?
BELINDA BENCIC:   No, I mean, in the normal tournaments you also play ever day, so for me it's nothing new.   Also in the juniors I had to play every day singles and doubles so it's really no problem for me.

Q.   How do you set your expectations now?   Playing someone like Halep, you want to go out there and play your best, but is this match you expect to win?   And moving forward, matches like this, are these ones you expect to win in the future?
BELINDA BENCIC:   Of course I'm going to the court and I think I have a chance to beat her and I really want to win.
So I will just have no pressure, but I will try to give my best and fight. 

Q.   You obviously enjoy playing on grass a lot.   Do you think that this will be your best Grand Slam? 
BELINDA BENCIC:   Until now it's my best result, but I don't know in the future.   I like to play on all surfaces, and my advantage is that I can adapt quickly to it.
I really like to play on grass, so, yeah, I don't know.

Q.   You feel as comfortable on hard courts or clay?
BELINDA BENCIC:   Yeah, I feel as comfortable, yeah, but on grass it's really special for me.   I think I feel the best on grass, but also I'm not bad on the other surfaces.   (Smiling.) 

Q.   How old were you when you first played on grass? 
BELINDA BENCIC:   I played under‑18 tournament in Halle.   It was a grade 2.   I was 13. 

Q.   What did you think?   Because this is a very different surface from all the other surfaces. 
BELINDA BENCIC:   I really liked it from the beginning base it really suits my game.   I try to play really deep.   I think that's my advantage, that my balls are more dangerous, my shots.
Yeah. 

Q.   Sorry to ask you this again, but do you feel like you're a torch bearer for Swiss tennis and the history of Patty Snyder and Martina Hingis?   You're really sort of the next generation.   Do you feel extra pressure in that sense?
BELINDA BENCIC:   No. I'm motivated that Switzerland is thinking this of me.   I'm really motivated to do better.
I don't really try to let the pressure come to me.   I just focus on the game.   Yeah, just motivates me that the people believe in me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT