AEGON CLASSIC
June 9, 2014
Belinda Bencic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







B. BENCIC/D. Vekic
      6‑4, 6‑4

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Well done.   Some people find it difficult to come to the grass here because it can be a bit damp and soft.   You seem to have in problem at all; is that right? 
    BELINDA BENCIC:   Yeah, at the beginning was a little bit difficult.   Of course the first match of this season on grass, so it was very difficult.   I had to focus a lot to come into my rhythm.
    After, I think it was fine.   I was feeling well.

Q.   There was an important time at perhaps 4‑All in the first set where she broke back, and you responded immediately with two good games.   Did you feel that was important?
    BELINDA BENCIC:   Yes, very important.   Yeah, I had break up and I lost my service game not so necessary.
    Yeah, it was really important to break at 4‑All, and then I could serve it out.

Q.   Did you feel comfortable after that?
    BELINDA BENCIC:   Yeah, I was more confident of course going to the second set.   I had 2‑0 and she came back to 2‑All, but I was just playing confident. 

Q.   You like grass, don't you?   You've won junior Wimbledon on it.   You're going to play four weeks of grass court tennis now?
    BELINDA BENCIC:   Yeah, I feel really good.   Wimbledon last year was wonderful to play on the grass, and also this year I think it suits my game well.
    So, yeah, and I'm really looking forward to this grass season (smiling.)

Q.   Although you can't play much on it, would it be your best surface, or one of your best surfaces? 
    BELINDA BENCIC:   I don't know what is my best surface.   I like every surface.   I think I can adapt quickly to the timing and everything.
    So, yeah. 

Q.   You've had a really good 2014.   Have you surprised yourself with how well you've done?   You've rocketed up rankings. 
    BELINDA BENCIC:   Yeah, I went up through the ranking, and now it's easier for me to get into the tournaments and make some points, so I'm really happy about that.

Q.   Did you expect to be ranked 77 so soon? 
    BELINDA BENCIC:   I didn't expect it, of course, because I had no expectations.   I just played every tournament.   I didn't think about the rankings. 

Q.   Do you think you may be surprising some players who obviously have never played against you before?   Is that on your side?
    BELINDA BENCIC:   Yeah, I think the advantage is they don't know me so well yet and never played them, yeah.

Q.   You play Hantuchova in the next round.   Thoughts about that?   She's a, can I say a fellow Slovak?
    BELINDA BENCIC:   Sorry? 

Q.   She's also Slovakian. 
    BELINDA BENCIC:   Yeah, well I will just try and play my game.   She won here last year, so I have no pressure at all.
    Yeah, I will just play like today. 

Q.   You're noted as one of the most tactically astute players on the tour at the moments.   There are a lot of compliments about your tactics.   How will you change your tactics tomorrow to play Hantuchova?
    BELINDA BENCIC:   Yeah, I'm trying to like really think on the court, not just hit it wherever I want.
    Yeah, tomorrow against Daniela I will see what I do.   I have never played her, so, yeah, we'll see.

Q.   Have you seen her play in the past?
    BELINDA BENCIC:   Yeah, of course.   I was watching her on TV, yeah.

Q.   Any sort of ideas what your plan of attack may be? 
    BELINDA BENCIC:   Yeah, of course I will look with my dad and we will talk about the tactic for sure. 

Q.   Can you remember how old you were when you first saw Daniela Hantuchova play or when you became aware of her?
    BELINDA BENCIC:   I have no idea.   I just watched women's tennis in general on TV.   Of course she was one of them I was watching a lot.
    Yeah, it's really nice to play her tomorrow.

Q.   Is there any danger that you will be intimidated by her and by her reputation?
    BELINDA BENCIC:   No.   I try not to be anymore.   I had a lot of experiences where I played like Serena or Venus Williams, so I know already now what I have to do.
    I just have to be focused on my game and just play aggressive. 

Q.   I imagine you probably just want to enjoy your tennis and not think too far ahead and take it match by match and tournament by tournament, but are there any sort of dreams about what you might like to achieve that you could share with us in the long‑term future?
    BELINDA BENCIC:   Yeah, of course there are dreams, but the dreams are so far yet. 
    So I'm just enjoying playing every tournament and just enjoying this year where I have no pressure and no points to defend.
    So, yeah. 

Q.   What's it like playing here specifically at the Classic, playing in Birmingham?
    BELINDA BENCIC:   It's very nice.   I like it a lot.   We arrived some days ago.   I thought I would play the qualifying, but I moved to the main draw so I had a lot of practice already.
    I really like to be here.   I like Birmingham a lot. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT