AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 15, 2014
Belinda Bencic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. LI/B. Bencic
  6‑0, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Where do you think you played today, especially in the second set?
BELINDA BENCIC:   Yeah, I think in the first set it was quite a lesson, but in the second set I played better and I tried to be more aggressive. 
So it was better, the result.

Q.   What was it like walking on to Rod Laver Arena?
BELINDA BENCIC:   It was amazing feeling.   I always watched like on the court, TV, and I always say I want to play there and today I played there. 

Q.   Was it bigger than you thought it would be?   Smaller? 
BELINDA BENCIC:   I practiced this morning on it, like the warmup, so I had quite an idea. 

Q.   What did you think during practice, of the arena?
BELINDA BENCIC:   I was just impressed.   It was great to play there.

Q.   How do you look at the whole experience in Melbourne coming through qualifying?
BELINDA BENCIC:   I think it was an amazing tournament now.   I came through qualifying.   I had a tough draw.   I played the first seed in qually also and I could win a round in main draw.   So that was awesome.
Now it was great experience against Li Na on Rod Laver.

Q.   You showed a good reaction after the first set.   What did you change to get into the match?
BELINDA BENCIC:   I tried to play more aggressive, like not more risk but just, yeah, more aggressive.   Also, my serve was working better, and I think that made the difference.   It was more like this.   (Showing up and down with hands).

Q.   Were you nervous in the beginning?   Stadium, Li Na. 
BELINDA BENCIC:   Yeah, sure, I was nervous, by like not so much like the first matches here.   She played just really good in the first set.

Q.   How encouraged are you by your performances here, and how you have been able to match it against good players?
BELINDA BENCIC:   I think I showed also in qualifying I can beat the qually players here and also some people in the main draw. 
And now it's great that I made the experience with 16 years, so maybe later or the next match I can show what I learned from this experience so I will not be so nervous and I will not miss the chances.

Q.   Still limited in the number of tournaments you can play because of your age.   Is that frustrating?
BELINDA BENCIC:   No, I mean, it's not frustrating now.   It's okay, because I get three extra tournaments because I finished in the year in the top 5 juniors and I was in the final of two Grand Slams.
So it's okay now.   I can have more tournaments, so, yeah, it's enough. 

Q.   When you were up 4‑3 in the second set, did you start to think, you know, Maybe I can win this match?
BELINDA BENCIC:   I was not trying to think about the score.   I was just trying to play point after point.   I mean, I had 4‑3 in the second.   It was far from winning the match. 
But still I just played point after point, and I missed the chance there to go 5‑3‑up.   But, I mean, it's okay.   Maybe next time.

Q.   Quite a lot of money for losing in the second round.   What do you think you'll do with the prize?
BELINDA BENCIC:   I don't know.   Go shopping (smiling)? 
No, I'm, I mean, it's a lot of money also spending on traveling and the whole team, and the family.   So, I mean, it's just nice.

Q.   Do you feel like people will expect this of you now at every Grand Slam?   I mean, qualifying is a very hard thing to achieve.   Does that bother you?
BELINDA BENCIC:   No.   I just will enjoy the next Grand Slam, and I will not let me stay under pressure from anybody, so I will just play what I can and hopefully the results will come.

Q.   I think Li Na said you played like Hingis.   Do you hear that a lot?
BELINDA BENCIC:   Yeah, I hear it a lot. 

Q.   Is it annoying or you like it?
BELINDA BENCIC:   No, I mean, it was obvious because I practiced by her mom, so it's no other choice. 

Q.   What kind of quality you learn from a big player like Li Na?   Is it the big play or the strategy or experience?   What kind of thing you like to take away from this match? 
BELINDA BENCIC:   A lot.   I mean, I can learn a lot from her.   I was always watching her in TV, and now to play against her it's an awesome feeling. 
In the first set, I mean, I had not so much chance; but then in the second I could play better and come, and it was the positive thing of it. 

Q.   How is it being a 16 year old when you're on the tennis tour all the time?   Maybe your friends are living a different lifestyle.   Do you find it?   Any difficulties in being different world of tennis?
BELINDA BENCIC:   No, I don't think it's difficult.   I'm in Melbourne right now.   I am playing on the Rod Laver Arena.   I don't think it's a bad life what I have. 
I'm just really appreciating my situation that I can travel all around the world and visit some amazing places, like here.   I mean, I was to Japan; I'm in Australia; I'm traveling everywhere. 
I'm really happy about that. 

Q.   Where are you playing next? 
BELINDA BENCIC:   Pattaya, WTA Thailand.

Q.   Next few after that, what's your plans?
BELINDA BENCIC:   Then the Fed Cup in Paris and then after we will go to America. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT