WIMBLEDON
July 6, 2013
Belinda Bencic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







B. BENCIC/T. Townsend
  4‑6, 6‑1, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Looks like you can't stop smiling.   How does it feel to be champion?
BELINDA BENCIC:   Yeah, no, I can't stop.   It's amazing.   I didn't realize yet, yeah. 
I will play the doubles soon, so I will just realize after.   I will give my best in doubles also.

Q.   It was a tough, tough match, wasn't it?
BELINDA BENCIC:   It was a really tough match, yeah.   The first set was not so good from my side, but she played amazing from the beginning. 
Yeah, then I could come back.   Then the third set was like about holding serves and who has better nerves. 

Q.   Can you explain to us how you managed to turn the match around. 
BELINDA BENCIC:   No.   I don't know (laughter). 
I just tried to stay in the match and was trying to make my serve better, because in the beginning it was not really good. 
Then in the end, when I served for the match, I don't know what happened, but it was amazing game.   I'm really proud of that, yeah. 

Q.   How did it feel to play on No.1 with so many people?   It was like a real final. 
BELINDA BENCIC:   Yeah, it was really impressive.   Like I came to the court and I didn't know it was so full.   I was like, Wow. 
Then the first games and points were really special.   Yeah, then I get used to it.   In the second set I didn't think about it so much.   I just started to play. 
Yeah, and then at the end when the crowd, like at 5‑4, my serve, they were so loud.   So that was really special. 

Q.   How did you deal with Hawk‑Eye?   Was it the first time?
BELINDA BENCIC:   Yeah, it was the first time.   We had pretty much fun with it.   For both I think it's the first time, so... 

Q.   What did you find difficult about Taylor's game?
BELINDA BENCIC:   Well, everything is difficult when you play her.   It's really tough to play against her every time.   I played now her three times.   None of the matches was easy. 
I think she has a great serve.   It was really hard for me to return good.   And her forehand is amazing, so I just try to, like, push to her backhand. 
At the net I think she won every point, yeah. 

Q.   Have you had a chance to see Martina Hingis since the final?
BELINDA BENCIC:   No, not yet.   I didn't see her. 

Q.   Will you see her later, do you think?
BELINDA BENCIC:   Well, I hope so.   I don't know. 

Q.   Can you talk about the difference between winning as a junior Wimbledon and the French Open?   Is it already at the level of a junior Wimbledon is something quite special?
BELINDA BENCIC:   I think both finals were really special.   Roland Garros was my first one.   It was also amazing feeling. 
Here it was also special because the crowd.   It was not so much people in Paris there.   But I think both of them are really nice to win. 

Q.   You looked a little bit frustrated at times in the first set.   You were considering smashing a racquet at one point.   What was going through your mind at that point?   Were you surprised at how fast she had come out?
BELINDA BENCIC:   I was really surprised at how good she could play.   I was quite nervous.   I thought she was, too, but she didn't seem so. 
Yeah, she played just incredible.   Like, I just pushed the ball back to the court, but it was not enough.   I had to start to play aggressive and better and my serve, yeah.

Q.   Is that something you found on the grass, you need to come forward a little bit more and be more aggressive than on the clay?
BELINDA BENCIC:   Yeah, on grass it's really tough to play against her because she has like a lot of spin in her serve.   Of course, the slice on grass, it's really tough to play.   And also the topspin balls, on the grass, it just rolls so fast. 

Q.   In your other games you did a lot of moving forward on the second serve and being very aggressive.   You didn't get a chance to do that much today.   Was it tactical or were you just under pressure more?
BELINDA BENCIC:   No.   It was just from the game because I couldn't attack her second serve.   It was also very strong and with a lot of spin.   It just like goes to every side and I didn't know what to do. 
I just decided just to make no mistakes and try to have good length, yeah. 

Q.   How are you planning to celebrate?
BELINDA BENCIC:   On the [] Champions' dinner.   I'm really looking forward to this.   I was really hoping before the tournament that I would get there, either with singles or doubles.   I just took the dress. 

Q.   Did you think Federer would have been there?
BELINDA BENCIC:   I hoped it.   But, I mean, it's okay. 

Q.   What about when you get back to Switzerland?   What are you going to do to celebrate the French Open and Wimbledon?
BELINDA BENCIC:   I'm going to practice. 
No, I will play next tournament in Bastad.   I got a wild card there.   I will hope to play well there, yeah. 

Q.   What are your future plans?   How many more years are you planning on playing juniors?
BELINDA BENCIC:   I don't know that yet, but I plan to play US Open and then I will see what is my ranking by the pros.   Maybe I can go to qualify for woman's already. 

Q.   You mean the seniors?
BELINDA BENCIC:   Yeah, yeah, yeah.   I'm going to try to do that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT