AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2020
Belinda Bencic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








B. BENCIC/A. Schmiedlova
6-3, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. It was a pretty tough match out there. How did you feel about getting through your first round?
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, I feel the same, it was a pretty tough match. I feel like always when I play her it's pretty tough.
Yeah, I'm really happy. Of course, first rounds is always difficult. You're trying to find your rhythm, your kind of groove. I'm just really happy I won today and have another shot in the next match.
Q. You were 3-0 down there at one stage. Do you think one of the best parts of your game these days is your problem-solving ability?
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, definitely. I think that's not my biggest strength but definitely something I have in my game. I think it's really important to have, because you never kind of play a perfect match. You always have to problem-solve.
So your opponent is also playing great sometimes and having ups and you're having downs. So I think it's really about breaking the momentum of your opponent.
Q. Just in terms of being a Grand Slam semifinalist after the US Open, does that give you a sort of bigger feeling of confidence when you come to Australia this year compared to previous years?
BELINDA BENCIC: A little bit of both. So yes, it does, but on the other side it doesn't buy me anything. It doesn't matter anymore that I played Grand Slam semifinal in US Open. Now it's a new Grand Slam and I still have to win my matches to get there eventually again.
So, yes, it's about the confidence, for sure, but I think it's also kind of the expectation is a little bit bigger and I think you can't compare yourself with US Open right now. You have to focus on a brand new Grand Slam, Australian Open.
Q. You had another four double faults today, so that's another $800 for the bushfire relief?
BELINDA BENCIC: Yes (smiling). It's great. I could have done more, but I didn't (smiling).
Q. But you matched it with four aces, as well, which is good.
BELINDA BENCIC: Yes, so I can maybe donate both.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT