DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 18, 2020
Belinda Bencic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. PAVLYUCHENKOVA/B. Bencic   
1-6, 6-1, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You made one of the best starts probably ever on the tour. What turned it around after the great start?  
BELINDA BENCIC: Yeah, this point, like one hour after the match, I'm really not sure yet. I'm also trying to analyze what went wrong or what was the turning point.   
Yeah, I think sometimes it's even too dangerous when you start very well, then just tennis turns it around. At this point I still don't know what happened. Still looking for an answer.   
 Q.  Do you lose that sort of intensity, because you played with intensity, does it affect your concentration and focus?  
BELINDA BENCIC: No, I don't think the mistake was there because I really tried to focus, tell myself that I have to keep going, the kind of stuff you talking to yourself when you are winning.   
I'm not sure if mentally I kind of underestimated her after or something. I tried to stay calm also in the second set. I knew it's not going to be again an easy set like that.   
I didn't maybe expect her to play that well, to kill so many shots. I felt like I couldn't go to the game after again, like find into the match.   
 Q.  Is it a case of her raising her game instead of you dropping the level of yours?  
BELINDA BENCIC: Well, I think it's about the momentum. When she's playing well, I can't play that well. When I was playing very well in the first set, she couldn't play that well. It's little bit of both. When one is pushing hard, the other one cannot push. I think it's all about the momentum.   
 Q.  What is your mindset like at the moment? Is it a huge disappointment or are you able to reset and think positively?  
BELINDA BENCIC: Well, I'm certainly not very happy. Of course I'm disappointed. I feel like I have to work very hard to regain my confidence. I will definitely do that. I will give everything in every practice to be confident again.   
Hopefully one or two matches it can turn around the momentum, it can just click, then I can turn things around.   
 Q.  Do you see any connection between recent matches, Australia or Fed Cup? Do you feel a specific thing on the court that isn't working for you? Are you seeing them as separate things?  
BELINDA BENCIC: Well, you're referring to get blown off the court in Australia and here.   
I don't know. Sometimes it happens. I'm fighting every time I'm on the court. That's all I can do.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT