MOUNTAIN WEST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 11, 2005
Danny Granger
Ritchie McKay
Alfered Neale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
COACH MCKAY:  Hats off to San Diego State.  I thought they did a great job in scheming for us.  They never let us get a rhythm because of their traps and stuff, and that bothered us.  I was proud of the way we pulled through.  These guys were pretty good.  I have got a bad voice.  Thank you. 
 
 
Q.  Alfred, in two games against SDSU this year, you played three games, in two you were 17 for and 20.  Tonight you had some clutch threes, four for six.  What happened tonight?
 
ALFRED NEALE:  They kind of like played off a little bit.  I don't know what they were focused on.  I think they were focused on doubling our post.  It was kind of like they were leaving me open and I was taking the open shots. 
 
Q.  They went on a run to close it to within six, then you hit one three where you weighed your options and switched it.  Were they giving you too much room or did you see an opening?
 
BRANDON HEATH:  I saw an opening.  I thought they were getting ready to double.  I took the opportunity.  They gave me too much space. 
 
Q.  Alfred, when Danny is playing as well as he was tonight, how much better does he make the rest of you out on the floor?  Have you seen him step up his game to this level before?
 
ALFRED NEALE:  He helps out a lot.  Kind of thing where most guys are focused on him that it opened up the door for other shooters on our team.  I think when guys are more focused on Danny, it makes the rest of our team so much better. 
 
Q.  Did either one of you guys analyze your performance tonight?
 
DANNY GRANGER:  I thought it was decent.  Maybe a C-plus.  Definitely wasn't our best basketball.  I think we committed a few turnovers.  The press messed us up a lot.  We grinded it out.  We got the W, so that is the most important thing. 
 
ALFRED NEALE:  Most definitely.  I think the same thing.  You know, it is not like the best game we had all season.  We grinded it out and got the job done. 
 
Q.  Danny, you beat these guys comfortably two times then you get up nine nothing right away tonight.  Were you at all surprised the way they came back given the talent they have?
 
DANNY GRANGER:  Not at all.  You have got to expect a team with the capability of San Diego State to make a run.  I think they did.  They made a run to cut it to four.  I think we kept our composure good.  We built the lead backup and we handled it well. 
 
 
Q.  Can you guys talk about how they stayed in the game?  It seemed like Brandon Heath started doing his own thing.  He scored twelve straight.  Could you tell he was losing you guys?
 
DANNY GRANGER:  Not necessarily.  I think when the team is down, they play more freely.  You will take some shots you wouldn't normally take in the offense, maybe as an act of desperation to get back in the game.  He is a great player.  He beat us a few times, but I don't think it was too bad. 
 
 
Q.  Danny, any thoughts on Utah at this point or just relieved to get past this one?
 
DANNY GRANGER:  Not relieved.  We automatically switch our focus to Utah.  We came here to win three games despite what they say about us getting to the tournament.  We are trying to get to the championship.  We switch our focus to Utah. 
 
Q.  Danny and Coach McKay, do you see any of Marcus Slaughter in your play?  Is it pretty much the same match-ups sizewise, reboundwise, is it close?  Do you guys play a similar game?
 
DANNY GRANGER:  A little bit.  I mean, Marcus Slaughter, he puts up good numbers.  I remember when I was a sophomore, how I handled the ball more.  I am little older.  He is a great player and has a great future. 
 
COACH MCKAY:  I think Marcus is a great player as well.  Danny is more of a guard and Marcus is more of a forward.  Marcus is an excellent player.  I think, like Danny said, he has a terrific future. 
 
Q.  Kind of along those lines, are you conscious of guys and their number of fouls?  Do you tell your players, Slaughter has got three right now, try to pick up the fourth foul?
 
COACH MCKAY:  Of course.  We try to attack a guy with three or four fouls, right. 
 
Q.  Coach, have you ever coached a team that was just -- I mean, I don't want to say reliant on one player, but obviously he has had such a huge effect on your winning and losing?
 
COACH MCKAY:  Danny is a tremendous player.  We lost by 11 at Utah, fifteen without Dave and Danny at BYU.  During that stretch we were a different team.  I think we have other players.  If you don't respect the other plays on our team, we can hurt you.  Danny is great because he is so unselfish. 
 
Q.  It seemed like in passes at least, there were more bad passes and more bad shots.  Things I hadn't seen in a while.  Is that because of how disruptive they were?  Did you guys get overconfident after the early lead?
 
COACH MCKAY:  I think our guys were feeling that pressure of this, have to win this game to get to the NCAA tournament.  Because of that and San Diego State's unorthodox style, we didn't execute like we could.  Obviously tomorrow we will have to do a better job against Utah. 
 
Q.  I don't want to speak too soon, 25 and 3 with Granger in the line-up.  Another big win today following the win yesterday.  Is it just going to take a win tomorrow night?  Obviously a win will give it to you if you guys put up a fight.  Do you think that will be enough?
 
COACH MCKAY:  I think we have done enough to receive an at-large bid.  That is my personal opinion.  I think there are not many teams in our league that have won 8 in a row or 11 out of 12.  That is my personal opinion, but I am not on a selection committee.  Obviously at Utah, we have a tremendous respect for coach Giacoletti.  We have to try to get them for a second time. 
 
COACH MCKAY:  Thank you. 
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT