NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BRUINS v PENGUINS
June 7, 2013
Claude Julien
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for coach.   
COACH JULIEN:   Before we get started, I don't know if you know, Matt and his wife Jessica just had a new baby girl, named Madison.   Make sure everybody knows here, Matt.   Nine pounds and healthy.   
She cried when she first saw her dad (laughter).   
   
 Q.   Claude, another closeout opportunity.   What have you told your team today about how they need to play?  
COACH JULIEN:   I think we know how we need to play.   It's about bringing it tonight.   
This is about one game.   It's nothing more than about one game, what we need to do here.   So we try and minimize I guess all the hoopla around everything and keep it to the one game, how we need to play.   
Again, I mentioned yesterday that we didn't play our best game last game.   They played better.   So we need to be a better team tonight.   
   
 Q.   When Daugavins has played, what did you like best about him?   
COACH JULIEN:   He's a gritty player.   He's strong on the puck, strong as an individual, he can shoot the puck.   Got a lot of qualities.   
We've always said we've got depth on this team.   We showed it when injuries crept up on defense.   Now we've got an injury up front.   He's going to have to step in and do his job.   
   
 Q.   Claude, obviously the skate is the skate.   The way it looks on those third, fourth lines, looks like those are things you can change into and out of based on how stuff is going pretty simply, too, right?   
COACH JULIEN:   That's what I meant yesterday when I said I have lots of options.   I can interchange guys, move them around.   We'll see how things go.   
That's what I had this morning in the morning skate.   They know it can change.   Not necessarily set in stone.   
   
 Q.   Coach, Brad has elevated his game the last few weeks.   How has his temper also maybe helped him elevate that game?   
COACH JULIEN:   He's just more involved, more confident.   
But every year in the playoffs, you know, not only does he become a target for other teams, but he responds to it.   What he's got to do is respond to it in a positive way.   We saw him score that goal, the fourth goal, in Game2 where he took off, scored a goal.   I think that's a great way to respond.   
As long as he doesn't cross the line ‑ we've said that before ‑ we've got to keep him in check.   His emotion is what makes him a real good player.   You have to let him play with some emotion.   
Again, as long as he doesn't cross the line...   
   
 Q.   There's a lot of talk about how the guys are all on the same page, bought in.   How much comes from what I think you called in the past clarity of expectations?   How do you get that across to them?   
COACH JULIEN:   Just by talking with those guys, you talk to your team, you talk to lines, you talk to individuals, you do all of those things.   Coaching nowadays is a lot more of that.   
That's why you see a lot of assistant coaches around, because there's a lot of work to be done.   They do a lot of the video stuff.   You do a lot of the managing of players, individuals, groups.   
That's how you try and make things work around here.   
   
 Q.   Claude, is there any concern about lingering effects from the double overtime game at all?   Have you seen good things in the last 48 hours?  
COACH JULIEN:   Well, I mean, it's going to be interesting because both teams obviously took the day off yesterday, didn't skate.   The players that played didn't skate.   So there's no doubt, it's going to be a challenge.   But it's the same for both teams.   
It's not about one team being worse than the others.   I think both teams left everything they had on the ice last game.   
It's about recovery, making sure you're ready to push yourself through it tonight.   
   
 Q.   Claude, the way this organization runs itself, every guy is equal, no one is on a pedestal.   Talk about the value of that, how that can create better chemistry in the locker room.   
COACH JULIEN:   Well, that's the way I feel a team should be.   Nobody should be on a pedestal.   There's a lot of guys in there that you could easily put on a pedestal.   
Not only are they not put on a pedestal, they don't want to be put on a pedestal.   I think we appreciate the fact that everybody's important.   
As I said before, the Marleau line has always been regarded as something special because they've been treated the same as everybody else.   They're not extra players, not fourth‑line guys that don't play much.   They're guys that bring something to the team and to the game.   
I guess their input should be as valuable as any other input.   So you can get a 30‑goal‑scorer and say, Well, he's quite a player.   But you also got guys that will probably save you 30 goals.   Why shouldn't they be as important?   
   
 Q.   Well‑documented Brad Marchand style of play.   Curious if he ever finds a way to get under your skin at all?   
COACH JULIEN:   Not for long (laughter).   When he does, it's not very long.   It gets addressed very quickly.   
All that said, those guys are really good people.   I'm sure from other teams, you're going to hear the same thing.   Their emotions are what happens on the ice.   But at the same time, I mean, I've been hard on them, but hard like any parent would be on their kid growing up.   
My job is about hockey.   He's been really good about those things.   He gets it.   That's why he's kept improving.   
   
 Q.   Claude, do you get a sense back in the day you would not see penalties really in overtimes?   The other night, some other games, you're seeing several power plays, things like that, in extra time.   Do you feel that's a good thing?   Is that how you want it?  
COACH JULIEN:   I know there's been a lot of discussion about that whole thing.   
But anybody who watched the game, there was a standard that was established in that game.   That's why nobody's really complaining on the hockey side of it, either team.   
There were a lot of things that might have been, could have been called, but wasn't.   It's the both on same sides.   
You can go through the whole game, but if you took time to watch the game over again, you'd see a lot of things that didn't get called.   At the end of the day, as long as the standards are the same for both teams.   We can argue we want a certain standard.   
I'd like my team to play the same every night, but it doesn't.   It's too easy to pick on referees, way too easy.   At the end of the night, it's what the standard was.   If it was the same for both teams, there shouldn't be any complaints.   
   
 Q.   Claude, you talk about the options you have in replacing Gregory.   Are your options limited in the faceoff circles?   
COACH JULIEN:   Well, I mean, we feel we have a lot of good faceoff guys.   Probably doesn't show last game.   You lose a centerman, somebody else has to step in.   We have lots of guys.   A lot of times they put two centermen out there anyway.   
I hope it's not going to be an issue anyway.   You don't replace a guy like Gregory Campbell by putting another guy in there.   He brings a lot.   It's when you lose a guy like him, you realize the hole that he's left.   
Like every other team, you have to find ways to fill it, some of it will be by other bodies, some of it will be by other guys stepping in.   
Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT