NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BRUINS v CANUCKS
June 13, 2011
Claude Julien
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Coach Julien. 

 Q. I know after the end of Game 4 it meant a lot to the team to have Nathan around and pass on the jacket. Has he been around the team since then and can you offer an update on his status or condition? 
 CLAUDE JULIEN: He's been around, but I think we're clear when that happened what his update was, so that's not going to change. So if people are looking for miracles, if he's there, it will be pretty special. But right now, he's still dealing with those concussion issues as we speak. 
 He popped in quickly this morning just to say hi. I have the impression that he's going to be coming to the game tonight as long as he feels good, and that can vary as the day goes on.
 But I think right now his plan is to hopefully be here tonight. 

 Q. I wasn't implying on him playing. I was just wanting an update on how he's doing. 
 CLAUDE JULIEN: Yeah, yeah, he's doing better and hopefully we see him here tonight.

 Q. Can you speak about the job your defense has done as a group and how the stakes get even higher now that you're facing elimination games. 
 CLAUDE JULIEN: Obviously that can't change. We've done a good job of keeping the puck out of the net against a team that has dominated in the league in goals scored. Unfortunately when we have gone to Vancouver, we haven't scored the way we should be scoring and I think that's the difference right now in this series. 
 So we've got to continue doing the things that are good and we've got to improve on the things that need to be improved. That's goal scoring and making sure we do the right things in order to get those opportunities. 

 Q. I know you're wrapped up in trying to win this thing, but have you been able to take a moment to appreciate the entertainment value of how the series has carried along? 
 CLAUDE JULIEN: Absolutely, I think that's one thing I've done and told my players, too, you've got to enjoy the moment if you want to remember it. This is something pretty special for everybody, so we've taken the time to do that. I've taken time to do that. It's been a lot of fun. 
 Our plan is to continue having some fun here. 

 Q. Last game you used a couple of different right wings on the top line with David Krejci and Milan Lucic. Is that by design or would you prefer more consistent lines?
 CLAUDE JULIEN: It's been by design. We talked about that when Horton went down. I had to use different players, so that's exactly what I've done. 

 Q. Coach, earlier in the series you said that you wanted your team to stop with the taunting and the side show. How do you feel they've done since that point?
 COACH JULIEN: I think you've watched the games, too. It's an emotional series, but lately there has been a lot of hits and things going on. But, you know, I don't see an issue right now. 

 Q. Coach, on Game 5, looking at Game 5, how do you counter the way Vancouver's defense played early on, establishing the play at the blue line, not allowing you to establish your forecheck?
 COACH JULIEN: Well, that's what it's been. I think they were more physical than we were and that's certainly something that they did very well in that game. We know that we have to be better in regards to that if we want to establish our forecheck. We've got to, you know, match hit for hit if not be better than them. So it's something that has to happen, not for the sake of trying to run 'em out of the rink, but for the sake of establishing what we want to establish and creating the things that we want to create. 

 Q. Any concern whatsoever, Claude, just looking, talking to your players going into this game tonight that you won so convincingly in the two games at home prior this, that maybe there might be any chance of looking past this game to a Game 7 situation, just thinking automatically you might win tonight? 
 CLAUDE JULIEN: No, I think it's clear to our players that all the focus should be about tonight. If you want to create a Game 7, you have to focus on tonight's game, not on Game 7. 
 So we're going to be ready, I think our guys understand that. I don't think we're looking any further than tonight's game and let the rest of the stuff take care of itself. 
 Our guys have done a good job with that in the past. And whether we've been in the lead or whether we've gotten behind in the beginning of a series, we never let ourselves look too far ahead so our guys deserve a lot of credit for that. 

 Q. On the power play that has Krejci and Bergeron on it, besides the two guys that are good on faceoffs, anymore to having those two guys out there together or is it maybe just a faceoff thing? 
 CLAUDE JULIEN: I don't think we would be putting them there if it was just a faceoff thing. But between Bergeron and Krejci are right-handed shots, and whether one of them is on the half fall, doesn't really matter. The other one can be on the goal line. Krejci can make some plays from down low and Bergi can take pucks at the net. We just feel that right now that's a good scenario for that power play. 
 With the guys that are behind moving the puck well. We've got Peverley who does move the puck well and Seidenberg who can shoot the puck well, we've got a good combination there. It's shown some flashes of being very good, and when it hasn't, it's been not because of who you got out there, but what they've done.
 We've lost some battles in the last game. Certainly didn't make some strong passes that were cut off. Vancouver does a great job. They've got good sticks on the penalty kill. If we don't make crisp passes, you end up turning it over. 
 So it was more of what we didn't do in our decision making more than it was the players themselves that we've chosen on that power play. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT