NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: LIGHTNING v BRUINS
May 14, 2011
Claude Julien
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. I get to ask the Bergeron question today. I heard he skated.   
 COACH JULIEN : He did. Went out and had a light skate this morning. That's where he's at right now, just a light skate on his own.   
  
  Q. (Question regarding how coach feels about Bergeron.)   
 COACH JULIEN : I don't know. This is something that's just protocol. He's going through the normal stuff. Today was a light skate on his own. He just got off the ice and we went on.   
 I don't think there's much more, guys, we can give you. I said the same thing yesterday. It can go either way. So we're certainly not going to comment on that kind of stuff. Just hope that he keeps getting better.   
  
  Q. Montréal and Philadelphia are more traditional rivals for the Bruins. Coming out tonight, as far as the emotion, how do you feel it's going to go?   
 COACH JULIEN : Same for both teams. Obviously first time playing each other in the playoffs.   
 But I think if you don't get into it early, you might regret it. So that's how important this first game is, is make sure you're set to go in for a tough series, then you got to do what you got to do in order to win.   
 We need to get our heads into it. I know that much. That's something that's been expressed to our players. I think they're ready for it.   
  
  Q. Last weekend when you talked to us, you mentioned the possibility of Marc Savard coming down. What would that mean to have him around a little bit again?  
 COACH JULIEN : I think he's supposed to be coming down at some point. I'm not quite sure exactly what day, which team. But he's supposed to come down. Might be here on the weekend for all I know.   
 I heard something about it a while back. I can't say I remember exactly the date. No doubt he's part of our hockey club. He's always welcome here, anytime he wants to come down. I know he's trying to get over a concussion that's really set him back, we've given him that space and time. Being around family is a good way to help yourself through that also.   
 You know, he's always been welcomed here. Whenever he needs to see doctors or wants to come around the team, he's welcome to do that.   
 I could also hear something later on today that he's going to be in here tonight. Would be happy to see him, if that was the case.   
  
  Q. Without Bergeron in the lineup, what do you see in terms of that line that you put together? You haven't seen them in the playoffs at this point yet.   
 COACH JULIEN : Let's put it this way: we don't have a choice. We had to move guys around. That's part of hockey, guys move around and play with different players. It's important for them to adapt. Sometimes you keep things simple, work some chemistry in. Before you know it, you're on the same page, able to read off each other.   
 Those are pretty smart players that we moved around that can adapt. I know Ryder is on the left right now. He has played the left this year. Seems comfortable from shooting the puck from that side. Kelly has been a real smart player throughout his whole career. I don't see him having an issue adapting there.   
 I'm one of those guys that's very optimistic and confident about Tyler coming in tonight and playing a solid game for us.   
  
  Q. In line with the lines, I think there was a comfort level for you. I felt comfortable with the lines, so you have to, by necessity, make the adjustment. I know you're optimistic. How long does it take to be realistic, halfway through the game when you haven't scored a goal yet? Going to be quick with the trigger to change those lines?   
 COACH JULIEN : You know, I don't approach the game with negativity if you don't score a goal. We're going to score goals, that's my foremost thing. I hear what you're saying. We have other options, other players moving in and moving around, and I'm ready to do that. We've talked about that.   
  
  Q. What kind of start do you expect tonight, what are you going to be preaching to your guys before they go on the ice?   
 COACH JULIEN : I don't think there's any big secret here. I think when you've been off for a while, it's important you have a good start. First period is crucial for both teams. I think having that is one thing. Getting into it emotionally is going to be another thing. You certainly don't want to complicate the game in the first period when you've been off that long.   
 You're going to hear coaches saying, Keep it simple. We know what we have to do in order to have success against this team. It's going to be up to us to create that situation.   
 Again, we've had some time this week to practice, prepare for that, and now it's time to show it.  
  
  Q. A lot of the players talked about they're happy to get back into the routine of a game day, get that going again. Is it the same way for a coach?  
 COACH JULIEN : I think it's the same way for everybody. Aren't you guys excited? It's pretty well the same.   
 I think players, when they get to this stage, are excited to play. Rest is always a good thing, but at the same time we all enjoy the rhythm that we get into when you're in the playoffs. To be able to start that again tonight is great for everybody. I know I'm excited.   
 I was up early without being forced out of bed. I think the players were the same way.   
  
  Q. Adam McQuaid has been practicing all week. Is he ready to go tonight?   
 COACH JULIEN : Well, he is ready to go tonight. What he brings to our defense is, you guys should know, you followed him all year, he's a pretty steady defenseman. He gives us a size and a toughness. They got some big guys up front, Lecavalier, some guys that come in and grind it out. We need some size back there, and he's going to provide us with that.   
  
  Q. Claude, the importance psychologically of getting some power-play finishes in that Flyers series, now going up against a team that's had some success penalty killing?   
 COACH JULIEN : There's two things. You want to hope that your power-play continues to probably move the puck around and give themselves some scoring chances like we did in the last couple of games, but this is one thing.  
 And the other thing is making sure your penalty kill is extremely good against your power-play. Somehow you have to neutralize your power-play. If your power-play is going to be as good as you hope to be, it's up to the penalty kill to try to compensate for that a little bit by being extremely good.   
 Again, we like the way the power-play handled themselves the last two games compared to the others. You have to stay, again, optimistic that they're going to continue doing the job.   
 Our penalty killers are going to have to do a great job against the power-play. Been pretty successful in the playoffs.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thanks, everyone.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT