NHL ALL-STAR WEEKEND
January 25, 2009
Guy Carbonneau
Claude Julien
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Now that the weekend is over, what is the biggest memory or highlight that you personally take away from the weekend? 
 CLAUDE JULIEN: I don't know if I have a specific moment, but I think that this has been an outstanding weekend. You can talk to any player, talk to any coaches. The way it's been organized by this organization, the way the people that came to Montreal, and the Montreal fans, and the way they've reacted to all of this has just made this whole weekend outstanding. 
 I know from the personal side of it, our players really enjoyed it. They had a great weekend. They represented us extremely well. And, again, I think this whole weekend has been a huge success. 

 Q. In terms of the shootout, any particular decisions on who you picked? Any strategy to who you picked? 
 CLAUDE JULIEN: There wasn't. And you know, we had talked before the game, and I told Guy, if we win, I put the lines together, if we lose, it was your job. And it was the same thing with the shootout. I picked them, and not Guy, but if we would have lost, it would have been Guy's picks. 

 Q. Carey Price said he was dying to go in nets in the shootout. 
 GUY CARBONNEAU: Well, you know, I'm sure that everybody would have been ready to go back into the shootout. You know, they're professionals. They want to win as bad. Even if it was just an exhibition game, they're all competitors, so it would have been fun. But I think that to keep the goalies that finished the game was the right thing to do. 

 Q. Are you two ready to put your friendship aside and go head-to-head for the Northeast Division now? 
 CLAUDE JULIEN: I don't know if it's a matter of putting friendships aside. It's a matter of let's get back to doing our jobs here. And it's been a great weekend. I'm sure Guy will probably hopefully say the same thing. But it's been a great weekend. 
 We've had a lot of fun chatting together, and again, putting our guards down and making sure that this weekend was one that we could enjoy. 
 There's no doubt we're back here Sunday, the rivalry's back on.
 GUY CARBONNEAU: Same thing. I mean, you know, I said this. When I was a player, I hated to lose. I hated everybody that played against me. I'm the same thing as a coach. But once the game is over, I'm able to talk to the people. And same thing; we had a great weekend. It was fun talking with Claude the last three days, but tomorrow is business. I've got to make sure that my club is ready, and he's got to do the same thing. 

 Q. How did you feel about the introductions of the players throughout the game? It seemed pretty cool.
 GUY CARBONNEAU: It was fun. Obviously, having this event here in Montreal, it's just a great weekend for everybody. You know, for Alex, Mike Komisarek, Andre Markov, Carey Price and myself, we couldn't ask for anything better. 
 You know, the fans have been here every game and cheering on the players every game. You know, I knew this was not going to be different tonight.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT