MEADOWLANDS PACE MEDIA CONFERENCE
July 11, 2006
Joe Alborano
Jim Arledge, Jr.
Steve Elliot
Sam McKee
Ron Pierce
Richard Silverman
George Teague, Jr.
Adam Victor, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


   KEN WARKENTIN:  Welcome to the  30th anniversary addition of this harness racing classic.  My name is Ken Warkentin.  I will be joined by my colleagues Sam McKee who will call the race on Saturday along with Bob Hollywood Heyden.  He will be asking questions today from the competitors.  Greetings to those in attendance here in Pegasus Restaurant here at the Meadowlands Racetrack here in East Rutherford, New Jersey.  Also those listening on our teleconference today, we'll be speaking to some participants there as we draw the Post Positions and get reactions and comments here from our participants at The Big M.  We offer our congratulations to all of the participants who have made it down this long road to the 30th addition of the signature event with 3 year old pacers here at the Meadowlands Racetrack.  It is the center piece of the greatest night in harness racing.  We're certainly proud to present it here at The Big M on Saturday July 15.   
 Once again, good afternoon, the Meadowlands Pace as you might recall, racings first million dollar event back in 1980, the immortal Niatross winning that,  and this great event is certainly steeped in a ton of history and it is well documented in our media guide here, so well put together by our media department and also please pick up a press kit as well to get some fine information and statistics on our participants here today.  Great press kit as usual.   
 At this time, it's my pleasure to introduce the chairman of the New Jersey and sports and exposition authority and a very big fan of harness racing, Mr. Carl Goldberg.  Carl.  (APPLAUSE)   
 CARL GOLDBERG:  Thank you.  It is a pleasure to be here this afternoon to begin the festivities for the start of the 30th running of the Meadowlands Pace.  I have been chairman here now for a little over four years and one of my focuses has been from the onset on continuing to improve racing here at the sports authority.  I am genuinely a harness fan.  I come to it naturally.  My father was a harness fan, and I used to spend my Saturday evenings as a 10 year old and a 12 year old at Yonkers and Roosevelt because that was the only way my father could get permission from my mother to go to the races if he agreed to take me along.  So I used to marshal my allowance over the course of the week so that I would have a couple of two dollar bets.  I will never forget the first time, at the age of 13, I probably shouldn't say this, when I won my first daily double.  It was a thrill I will never forget.   
 But it really is a pleasure to be here.  This is genuinely a championship race.  I have a few facts that I want to share with you about the Meadowlands Pace provided by Chris McErlean.  24 times this -- the three year old Pacer of the Year competed this event.  13 times the Pacer of the Year competed in the final.  And ten times the Horse of the Year was the winner of the Meadowlands Pace.  There are several previous winners that are involved again in this year's race.  John Campbell who is driving Took Hanover this year has won the Meadowlands Pace seven times - more than anyone else, of drivers or trainers combined in this year's event.  Trainer Blair Burgess of Armbro Deuce has won the event twice and there are 12 other drivers and trainers as well as eight other owners looking for their first opportunity to taste victory here at the Meadowlands Pace.  We're hoping for a huge crowd.  The weather is anticipated to be great and this clearly has been and continues to be, by far, the most prestigious event for pacers in the sport   
 We thank you all for coming here and being part of the Meadowlands's commitment about harness racing because ultimately, as the sign says, it is all about being here.  Thank you.  (Applause).   
 KEN WARKENTIN: Thanks very much, Carl.   
 As usual, a lot happening on pace night and before we get to the business of the draw, we want to outline many of the pace night activities.  Advanced wagering begins on Friday.  And you can see it there by the bullets on your screen.  That we have some great wagering opportunities as well the pick 4 guarantee pool, $150,000, 10,000 guaranteed for the six of six.  There is a beach towel giveaway; a great concert in Paddock Park with the Nerds and Good Girls Don't.  An Absolute vodka party bars, that will be Paddock Park as well.  Another interesting activity, the WCBS TV casting call for the amazing race reality series.  That should bring out some interesting people and newcomers to The Big M.  The New Jersey lottery trailer, 2000 lottery scratch-off tickets will be given away.  Four radio stations with the promo items and live remote call-ins.  Mike Cursey's (phonetic) SportsNetAmerica.com, live web cast, Mike hosting with Tom Constantino.  Some great action, the Memorial Final on Friday night, the William Haughton and the Stanley Dancer Memorial finals on Saturday night.  That Stanley Dancer Final features the early Hambletonian favorite Chocolate (sic) and speaking out for the Hambletonian, we want to give a plug for the third annual Hambletonian parade in Rutherford.  I had to cut through Rutherford today because of traffic enroute.  Got a chance to see the parade route, the kickoff to the Hambletonian festival, that's on July 29.  The parade starts at 10 AM; and post time for Breeders Crown Day and the Hambletonian preview, eliminations that day is 5:00 P.M.   
 So the Post Position draw momentarily.  We want to find out how they got here so we'll take a look back here at Saturday's eliminations and the common theme of pacers past, the sports leading driver was mentioned by Carl Goldberg, John Campbell, the Hall of Famer, starring here in The Big M's TV version of magnificent 7.   
 (Video played).   
 KEN WARKENTIN:  So the stage is set another video master piece from Big M TV.  Let's have a hand for the guys behind the wall there in TV control (applause).   
 And Bob Heyden for his moving tribute as well for those of you who were lucky enough to see the video tribute to Stanley Dancer; hopefully we'll get to see that again this coming week, pace week, once again the stage is set.  And one of the great wrinkles of the Post Position draw for the Meadowlands Pace is the awarding of choice of Post Positions to the elimination winners and we want to invite our presiding judge Cammie Haughton who is here, Director of Racing Mr. Tad Stockman and our chairman, Carl Goldberg, you're going to help us out with the draw.  He will also be assisting us today.   
 Some compelling storylines as we get set for the Post Position draw here Artistic Fella, you just saw him on that (inaudible) winning streak, the bargain purchase for $13,000, Joseph Alborano right here who hasn't touched his lunch.  Perfect Union for the father and son Richard and Jerry Silverman.  My Boy David,  his co-owner David Riff, hasn't even hit two years of age yet.  George Teague Jr., A new superstar in harness racing with two in the final.  Dave Palone who has four wins to go for 11,000 career victories, a Dave Panlone in his driver and we have both the legends in harness racing, we have the future here today as well.  (Inaudible).   
 Right now we'll get the draw for the two elimination winners.  Of course the upset winner Perfect Union, Artistic Fella - the first horse out, Artistic Fella.  Let's draw -- of course, the next one will be Perfect Union.  We have trainer Steve Elliot with Bob Heyden, go ahead.   
 BOB HEYDEN:  April 21st, in the last seven starts, does the Post Position make any difference to a horse on this kind of roll.   
 STEVE ELLIOT: Just a starting position.   
 BOB HEYDEN:  What do we have to choose for the favorite --   
 STEVE ELLIOT: I think we'll take the 3.   
 BOB HEYDEN:  Why is that?   
 STEVE ELLIOT: Just seems like a good place.   
 BOB HEYDEN:  You were on record as saying he just keeps getting better and better and better.  Is there still room for improvement here?   
 STEVE ELLIOT:  We hope so, one more week anyway.   
 KEN WARKENTIN:  Now Artistic Fella going for nine consecutive victories.  No races anywhere else, right, Bob he's raced exclusively at the Meadowlands Racetrack.   
 BOB HEYDEN:  That's right.  The last horse to win the Pace (inaudible) that was his 19th start of the year so he's raced all 16 --   
 KEN WARKENTIN:  Cat Manzi making his 10th Meadowlands Pace final start and still looking for his first win.  I believe he had one second place finish, so the connections are Perfect Union, Richard Silverman with Sam McKee.   
 SAM McKEE:  We go from a trainer of few words, Steve Elliot, to a man of often many words Richie Silverman with his father, Jerry, trained Perfect Union we know you can leave so I guess it really doesn't matter where you start from.  What post are you looking at?   
 RICHARD SILVERMAN: We were really thinking about this and we were trying to get those 50:1 odds again and I spoke to David and he said we were thinking about the 10, just to be able to pull that off again, but we'll go with the 2.   
 KEN WARKENTIN:  Post 2 for Perfect Union.  3 Artistic Fella.  We'll put the other 8 pills in the bottle here and we'll draw the other 8 Post Positions for the Meadowlands Pace.  We'll have Dave Brauers' Morning Line as soon as that becomes available.  And Artistic Fella, Cat Manzi; Perfect Union, Dave Miller, all set.   
 The horse is Dave Panlone for Dave Palone,  Post 9.  Fourth place finisher in his elimination.   
 Andy Miller listed on Shark Gesture, Post Position one on the rail one for Shark Gesture who qualified by finishing 5th to Perfect Union.  1, Shark Gesture Andy Miller is listed to drive.   
 John Campbell, Took Hanover, we just saw that great tribute to John Campbell winning one of his seven with the sire here, the Panderosa.   
 8, he's done it twice from post 10, John Campbell, Took Hanover as Post Position 8.  Third place finisher in his elimination.   
 Ron Pierce and Total Truth the North American Cup winner and Hoosier Cup winner, third place finisher beaten favorite in his elimination,  post position 5.   
 Western Ace, Brian Sears driving Western Ace for George Teague Jr, his second of two entries, Post Position number 7.   
 Post Position 6 for Armbro Deuce who you just saw shake loose late and was raging with late pace in 26 and change, timed at 149 and 1 and finishing second to Perfect Union.  George Brennan the hot led man has Armbro Deuce for Blair Burgess.   
 Post Position 4, My Boy David, Andy Miller listed to drive.  Andy Miller of course now on two horses.  He will have a choice Shark Gesture or the 4, My Boy David.   
 Real Mean Art, Yannick Gingras, post 10, sorry.  Oh, well.  Post 10 has won four times.  That ties for the most victories by a post position in the Meadowlands Pace.   
 We'll see about the choice for Andy Miller standing by Sam McKee with the connections of Western Ace and of course, Total Truth.   
 SAM McKEE:  Thank you very much.  We have the dynamic duo here Ron Pierce and trainer George Teague.  Ron, leading up to the Pace eliminations there was a lot of talk about who you would stick with to drive with; whether it be Artistic Fella or Total Truth.  You were the regular driver of both.  You went with Total Truth; what went into that decision.   
 RON PIERCE:  (Inaudible)  Won North American Cup and I raced a couple of dozen other horses for George and has some very good ones and we had a lot of luck in the past, so, I had to kind of lean George's way.   
 SAM McKEE:  It had to be some sleepless nights making that decision Artistic Fella, the Meadowlands Pace favorite?   
 RON PIERCE:  Well, I also had to take into consideration what he is sticked up for, and Total Truth, he sticked right up to -- he is in everything, so, that played into it a lot.  I feel that he's going to be real good on a small track.   
 SAM McKEE:  Let's find out about Total Truth and Western Ace with Mr. Teague himself.  Total Truth you made almost a million dollars in eight days, the North America Cup, two heats in the Hoosier Cup.  Did you have to back off with him a bit before the pace --   
 GEORGE TEAGUE JR:  Not really, just trained him a little bit lighter because of the grueling schedule and even travelling.  So come out well at the last race and even up to the Hoosier Cup deal.   
 SAM McKEE:  Did you feel the elim was a race that he was really good in but that he needed to and can move forward this Saturday?   
 GEORGE TEAGUE JR:  Yeah, I think so.  First off, it's not always a good thing -- Perfect Union was huge, so, (inaudible).   
 SAM McKEE:  Looking at the post 5 with the favorites inside of you, thoughts there?   
 GEORGE TEAGUE JR:  I think it's a good spot.  It actually worked out -- both of them drew the same identical post in the American Cup.  He drew 5 and Western Ace drew the 7.   
 SAM McKEE:  So if lightning strikes twice that will be fine by you.  Let's talk about Western Ace a little bit, he was actually hurt by the New Jersey State budget crisis because you missed a race you really needed --   
 GEORGE TEAGUE JR:  Yeah, raced him last week but he raced all right as it was last week (inaudible)  had a lot of pace coming off so....   
 SAM McKEE:  Brian Pierce will be driving him for you.  Brian has driven the horse before.  You ended up first over in the North America Cup.  Will the stable mates kind of work together or is it every man or himself?   
 GEORGE TEAGUE JR:  I don't think they hurt each other (INAUDIBLE)  everybody has got different (inaudible) on the ownership.  No, we're racing, both of them.   
 SAM McKEE:  What has been the biggest difference for you career-wise and in your life since Rainbow Blue?   
 GEORGE TEAGUE: I am having the time of my life.  I am having more fun than ever.  (Inaudible).   
 BOB HEYDEN: I am joined by Thomas and Lou Pontone.  Post 1 here with Shark Gesture.  Do you have a driver update for us?   
 THOMAS PONTONE:  No, the decision on the driver hasn't been made yet but we'll be talking this afternoon, probably make one this afternoon.   
 BOB HEYDEN:  Coming into the eliminations you have the least experience in the race.  Tell us about the late start here.   
 THOMAS PONTONE:  Ervin just took his time with him getting back and we were getting a little nervous and this is the race you wanted to be in and he just said to us take -- qualify him, he will be ready to race.  So hopefully he will be ready to race.   
 BOB HEYDEN:  Happy with the elimination?   
 THOMAS PONTONE:  Very happy with the elimination.  Brian was told just take him out and come home in the stretch and see -- let's make the find (sic) on; that's what we did.   
 BOB HEYDEN: (INAUDIBLE)  you and your father had a pretty good last five years.  Going to keep this going?   
 THOMAS PONTONE: I hope so.  (INAUDIBLE) wish Metropolitan would have had the draw that Shark Gesture had today, but hey, I like it, number one.   
 KEN WARKENTIN:  Sam McKee, Richard Silverman told us on Saturday night this horse Perfect Union had some foot problems, foot issues; those have been cleared up.   
 SAM McKEE:  What was the problems before the Meadowlands Pace elimination?  What did you do to get him so good for last Saturday?   
 RICHARD SILVERMAN:  A lot of times when a horses when they are in a little pain, especially feet, they really won't go 100% to the wire.  As soon as we got him back from Canada, we went ahead and we took the aluminum shoes off him immediately and put the steel (inaudible) wedges back on him and started working with his feet tremendously.  Just trying to keep him happy, that was our attitude because I felt he was just starting to get a little (inaudible) from hurting a bit, the wire, and, you know, so far last week he raced great and this is what we thought he was going into the season.  I am hoping to continue next week.   
 SAM McKEE:  What went into your driver change?   
 RICHARD SILVERMAN:  You know, that's always a real tough decision to make and George has driven for Mr. Rounick a lot.  He had picked off of Perfect Union last year after Perfect Union rode a big race at Lexington I believe in 52 and he had went with another colt.  So it wasn't anything, you know, written in stone that we had to keep George on.  He's a friend of mine and a friend of dad's, and he just seemed to -- the colt really wasn't responding; whether it was George's fault or our fault, but it just felt it was time for a change.  We have a good rapport with him.  We just wanted to make a change.   
 SAM McKEE:  Great elimination win.  How do you think your chances are?  Who is the horses to beat and what are your thoughts.   
 RICHARD SILVERMAN:  I always think really, you know, the best horse does win this race because they seem to stay out of trouble and it's a very, very, very competitive race, you know, and I think just who is on top that night is going to win it.   
 KEN WARKENTIN:  On the phone by teleconference here we have trainer Jim Arledge Jr.  Talk about your -- the draw post 9, your reaction?   
 JIM ARLEDGE JR:  Not a good place to be in there, but everybody got to be somewhere, just hope we get to racing up front and things work out.   
 KEN WARKENTIN:  When at what point in this season did you know that this was a Meadowlands Pace type horse?   
 JIM ARLEDGE JR:  (Inaudible).   
 KEN WARKENTIN:  When he won his elimination were you surprised up there at Woodbine?   
 JIM ARLEDGE JR:  Yeah, I always thought he was a nice horse but I didn't think -- (inaudible).   
 KEN WARKENTIN:  You've got a great driver in Dave Palone.  You certainly have -- you two have a great history together.  In Dave Palone's comments about this horse he said we need to somehow find just a little bit more; he might be one maybe two lengths not quite at the top or the best.  And of course you need some racing luck.  What can you do to get those two extra lifes if you will?   
 SAM ARLEDGE JR:  (Inaudible).   
 KEN WARKENTIN:  Those two heats benefit him in the Hoosier Cup?   
 SAM ARLEDGE JR:  Yeah, I think (Inaudible).   
 KEN WARKENTIN:  Last week, he was, well, let's say he was used pretty hard to get the lead to the half in 53 and change.  Is that a good speed, good acclimating mile for him?   
 SAM ARLEDGE JR: Yeah, I think so.  (Inaudible)  I hope that everything will work out.   
 BOB HEYDEN:  Joe Alborano, when you paid 13,000 what were you thinking at that moment?   
 JOE ALBORANO:  Well, I was taking a shot like everyone else.  I would have paid more for him and I would have paid less for him.  My wife picked him out and we looked him over; a couple of good friends of mine gave us the thumbs up, you know, I don't want to say that I am a guru in this because I am not, I am a novice.  It was actually luck, and you know, I just can't believe what it turned out to be.   
 BOB HEYDEN:  Last year or two Steve Elliot told you that the horse needs more time to develop and mature.  Any problem with that from your point of view?   
 JOE ALBORANO:  No, but it was pretty hard, you know, I kept telling Steve, come on, just one more, I am used to racing at Freehold and finishing off the track all the time.  And this was a whole different change, you know, and Steve says, come on, you got -- that's it, enough, and I says, yeah, all right, that's the right thing to do.  Let him grow up, he has got long legs, and he had like a skinny little body, very athletic, but when we brought him back over to Steve's barn after he was turned out, he was like twice the size and matured and it was a great decision that we made.   
 BOB HEYDEN:  When you came back at 3, your first few starts, didn't really set the world on fire; any concern at that point?   
 JOE ALBORANO:  Well, I am not going to lay down my weapons and call it a day because of a couple of misfortunes, but you know, Steve and I both were, you know looking at ourselves and he was doing everything he could, and he dug down in his bag of tricks and when it was time to dance, the horse danced.  And you know, like I said I got all my faith in the people behind me with this horse.   
 BOB HEYDEN:  He's now (inaudible) 8 in a row.  What has been the most exciting stop along that trail so far leading up in the Meadowlands Pace?   
 JOE ALBORANO:  Well, he just keeps winning every week.  I know he can't win forever.  The best of the best get beat, but, you know, I know the horse is at the top of his game and I am very excited about this, I am fortunate to have a horse like this.   
 BOB HEYDEN:  Every week you see (inaudible) what about Saturday night?   
 JOE ALBORANO:  Well, there's actually  about 500 people in the stands that don't actually come in, so, there's going to be a lot of people there.  A lot of people that I made friends in the grandstand, it's like everyone is getting on the bandwagon with it, but it's just exciting.  I made a lot of friends here with some of the drivers, everyone that has put their hands on this horse, you know, I want to thank and you know, I just hope everything works out for us, that's all, I think everything will be fine this week.   
 BOB HEYDEN:  (INAUDIBLE).   
 JOE ALBORANO:  Actually he does.  He was the first one to drive him this year, and things just weren't right, and Steve did what he had to do to get the horse right.  Ronnie did a great job driving him and you know, look, people have other obligations, and Ronnie is a great guy and he did great for me, and you know, like I was telling Dave Brauer the other night about the quarterback analogy your quarterback gets sacked and he breaks a leg you have to have another one waiting to go.  I am very comfortable with everything right now the way things are set up.   
 BOB HEYDEN:  Good luck.  14 of the 29 favorites have won the pace.  See if it can got 15 for 30.   
 KEN WARKENTIN:  Certainly a race that has favored the favorites in the past and the horse that has the least amount of starts, least experience, with only 9 lifetime starts, showed two breaks before (inaudible) third place finish in his elimination, Took Hanover Adam Victor Jr with Sam McKee.   
 SAM McKEE:  John Campbell looking for his 8th Meadowlands Pace win from post 8, Adam Victor Jr. Co-owner what happened to the horse up in Canada back-to-back breaks there; looked like you were home free in your North American --   
 ADAM VICTOR JR:  Yeah, John told us that we were just absolutely jogging,  hit the three-quarters in 121.  He came out of the turn and was just running real bad, we did a little equipment changes and then next week right back apparently Jackie Mo whipped up his disc and he got (inaudible) excuses are excuses, he made two breaks, we're back home on his home turf, we're hoping for the best.   
 SAM McKEE:  Do you feel he is over those breaking issues?  Has he matured a little bit in the last three weeks?   
 ADAM VICTOR JR:  He's definitely not the soundest of minded horses.  He has some issues.  He's very like high strung.  He's actually -- he needs two grooms in the paddock much like his father.  In terms of talent,  JC, from day one has said this horse on a talent basis is as good or better than anything out there.  So it is up to Mo to put everything together.  We have extreme confidence in him and the horse. He is showing some signs of brilliance so we think we are fine right now.   
 SAM McKEE:  Trainer Saturday night, his elimination that was a huge of effort first over, he just kept on digging, really didn't tire til late?   
 ADAM VICTOR JR:  Yep, JC said he was phenomenal, just a got a little leg weary at the end (inaudible)  about a month, so it also the first time I am racing him in two weeks in a row.  We sort of babied him.  Hopefully that will work to our advantage.  Hopefully he will be more tight, and John got off the horse this week and said if he had another (inaudible) under his belt probably would have been right there. I don't know if he could have beat Artistic Fella because he is a phenomenal horse, but he would have been right there.   
 SAM McKEE:  This week you had another start under your belt, post 8, good thing for you or bad thing?   
 ADAM VICTOR JR:  I am actually really disappointed in a lot of things in the draw.  Having that Dave Panlone on the outside of us it's going to make us go for it from the get go because he has tremendous gate speed and he's not going to sit around and wait to be an observer.  You got Teague's two horses in there.  They are going to be prime.  He is a big money trainer.  They are close together and you got the two elimination winners, so, you know, one good thing  that we have we have one of the best ever drivers in JC,  won it seven times, but just looking from the draw we don't have a lot of options.  We're going to have to go forward and we'll see how it goes.   
 BOB HEYDEN:  Six weeks ago John McDermott wasn't on the radar for either the Meadowlands Pace or the William Haughton.  Now you got one in each final.  What happened here?   
 JOHN McDERMOTT:  Ken called me asked me if I'd take a few horses and classic call,  he mentioned the names of the horses, and if I don't race against them I don't know who they are.  So I called Yannick I said who are these horses.  He says, pretty good horses.  After having them for six weeks, they are pretty good horses.   
 BOB HEYDEN:  You got post 10.  Reaction to that?   
 JOHN McDERMOTT:  I got to watch the video.  John won three times from there, makes me feel a lot better.  You know what, he will get it done for me.   
 BOB HEYDEN:  This horse has been second here in three series finals.  What makes you think Real Mean Art can go with these kind of horses?   
 JOHN McDERMOTT:  I know he can go with these horses.  He's a red horse, real artist, a (inaudible) pocket mare.  (Inaudible)  when it comes down it to I know he has got the heart and that's what I am counting on.   
 BOB HEYDEN: You said to me that he can go for 5/8 of a mile with anybody else.  Is that the was your stragegy works out?   
 JOHN McDERMOTT:  I am hoping (inaudible) he goes with the rest of them.  That will make me feel a lot better.  He's -- you know what, I really think getting the time of helped this horse and he's just starting to bloom.  He really looks great, and hope everybody sees Saturday night. (Inaudible).   
 KEN WARKENTIN:  Let's give you the POST positions, morning line odds now.  Starting with the one Shark Gesture, 15 to 1.  2, Perfect Union, 5 to 1.  3,  Artistic Fella, 7 to 5, morning line favorite.  7 to 5 Artistic Fella.   
 4, My Boy David, 15 to 1.   
 5 Total Truth, 4 to 1.   
 6 is Armbro Deuce, that's 8 to 1.   
 7 Western Ace, 12 to 1.   
 8, Took Hanover 10 to 1.   
 Dave Panlone 15 to 1 with Dave Palone.   
 And 10 Real Mean Art 15 to 1 for the 10,  Real Mean Art.  Some words from Yannick Gingras with Bob Heyden.   
 BOB HEYDEN:  (Inaudible).   
 YANNICK GINGRAS:  Yeah, things are going pretty good right now, so I like to add the Meadowlands Pace to it.   
 BOB HEYDEN: You raced against Real Mean Art when you had Total Truth in the Hoosier Cup. (Inaudible).   
 YANNICK GINGRAS:  Yeah, he was really good but he's coming off a layoff and he was not really strong at the wire in his elim, and like he showed it in the final he got tired a little but he had every right to, and last week he was a lot better, again, I am in the last maybe 100 yard he got a little  tired -- not tired, he was still pacing like he had eaten -- didn't kick in like he should with that trip but I really believe this week will be his week. (Inaudible)  There's a lot of races out there and he has had the time off, and hopefully it will pay-off?   
 BOB HEYDEN:  You have pressure here from post 10.  Only other time you drove in the Pace you had the favorite two years ago.  What was that experience like in your first Pace?   
 YANNICK GINGRAS:  (INAUDIBLE) we'll see.  There's no pressure, and hopefully we can do good.   
 BOB HEYDEN:  Good luck.   
 KEN WARKENTIN:  We thank you so much, best of luck in the Meadowlands Pace to all of you.  The stage set once again for another exciting Meadowlands Pace, great classic those compelling storylines that we mentioned will play out on a magnificent night of racing here on Saturday at The Big M.   
 Thanks for joining us.   
 FastScripts by ASAP Sports   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT