ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 7, 2019
Kenny Brooks
Taylor Emery
Regan Magarity
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Clemson - 80, Virginia Tech - 79 (OT)
THE MODERATOR: We're joined by Coach Kenny Brooks and student-athletes Taylor Emery and Regan Magarity.  Coach, a brief opening statement.
COACH BROOKS: Proud of my kids.  That's all I've got.
Q. Taylor, you scored Tech's last 17 points in the fourth quarter.  What were you seeing out there that enabled you to get on such a roll there and lead your team into overtime?
TAYLOR EMERY: I'm a senior.  And we needed this game.  And I told them I'm going to carry us, so get me the ball and I'll make it happen.  And they trusted me.
Q. You didn't score until the last-second 3-pointer there.  What defensive adjustments did they make on you there on in overtime if anything?
TAYLOR EMERY: They started face guarding me.  But that's no excuse.  I still have to come through for my team.
Q. Taylor, when you look back on this game, how frustrating will it be knowing how close you guys came?
TAYLOR EMERY: It's a heartbreaker.  It feels like last year all over again.
Q. Regan, how were they defending you?  Were they making it a tough shooting day for you, doing things defensively to make it tough for you?
REGAN MAGARITY: They're long and athletic, but that's no excuse.  I just wasn't able to make shots when my team needed me to.
Q. Collier had the eight straight points there in the overtime to give their team the lead for good.  What was she able to take advantage of, anything with the defense to get the team the lead there?
COACH BROOKS: No, she just made shots.  The two 3s she got, there was a defensive miscommunication and just gave her two wide-open shots and she knocked them down.
Q. Talk a little bit about Taylor's performance there, particularly in the second half and how she carried you guys?
COACH BROOKS: She did.  She was tremendous on the offensive end, got us going.  She hit some very tough shots.  I thought she could have done a little bit more but she got beat up.  She got beat up quite a bit.  She's going in and going to the hole.  And I thought she got beat up quite a bit.
So to be able to persevere through all of that, it's even more impressive to what she was able to accomplish, all things considered.
Q. I know it's maybe tough to look at now, but as postseason comes along, you've got maybe a 10-day stretch here before you'll know where you guys end up.  How important will it be for the program to continue a postseason run that it's had?
COACH BROOKS: It will be extremely important for our program.  Just as important I think it will be extremely important for these kids.  They deserve it.  They played extremely hard.  They've done tremendous things for our program, for our university.
Two of the hardest-working kids I've ever been around.  For them to come up short, it's really a travesty because I thought they had opportunities.  And like today, it's heartbreaking because I thought they deserved it.
But I think that obviously the postseason is important to our program as we continue on.  What they've done for this program since I've gotten here has been unbelievable.  Couldn't ask for a better crew, what they've done and how they progressed.  So I think it's very important.
Q. Obviously last year you had the close shave in the ACC Tournament and you bounced back from that made it all the way to the WNIT final.  What's going to be the key to bounce back and being similarly motivated in the WNIT this year?
REGAN MAGARITY: I think we just have to continue doing what we've been doing well.  We have to play for each other, play together.  Our goal is definitely to win, so I think we all have to come out, put this loss behind us and just get ready to work again.
Q. Kenny, your defense in the fourth quarter, did you make any adjustments to keep them in check in that last quarter?
COACH BROOKS: We didn't.  I mean, they made some adjustments and tried to, and we had to counter that.  But I thought we left them a couple times and gave them too good of a look and they capitalized on it.
They're a strong rebounding basketball team.  But it's a lot of grabbing and holding going on in there.  And I can't wait to watch the film.  I really can't, just to see really how a couple things happened.
They made shots.  I don't think they typically go 8-for-19 on a given night.  They're not really known for their 3-point shooting.  But give them credit.  They stepped up.  Thomas did a tremendous job early.  And then -- sorry -- Collier knocked them down in overtime.
Q. Taylor, as a senior, how much would you like -- this may seem like a simplistic question -- but how much would you like continue playing and have another round of postseason play here?
TAYLOR EMERY: I'd love it.  It's our last season.  So it's very important for us to play postseason.  I don't want it to end just yet.
Q. You made that late 3-pointer there and waved bye-bye to the fans there.  How much fun were you having there in the fourth quarter?  Was it something you can feel, like, oh, they can't stop me, I'm feeling hot here, I guess?  What was it like to play in that fourth quarter?
TAYLOR EMERY: I was just trying to win, and whatever my team needed me to do was what I was doing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT