MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 13, 2018
Caroline Hedwall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How many times have you played here in the past?
CAROLINE HEDWALL: I think this is my third time.
Q. Yesterday you were tied for the lead going to 18, you bogey 18; today tied for the lead going to 18 and you birdie 18.
CAROLINE HEDWALL: Yeah, it's just what happens sometimes.  I kind of prefer to have a par-5 to finish off with, and I hit a really good drive here today, and it was just nice to get that last birdie.
Q. Happy with the way you played the back nine today?
CAROLINE HEDWALL: Absolutely.  It's been solid for two days now, and I've been giving myself a lot of birdie opportunities, and today I didn't make as many putts, but hopefully I'm just saving them for the weekend.
Q. Have you been in this situation ever before at the halfway point of being in the lead, and have you learned how to react to that kind of situation?
CAROLINE HEDWALL: Well, I've been playing in the last group on a Saturday before, yeah.  I'm not sure if I've been in the lead, though.  But I've been in this situation, and I mean, it was a long time ago, though.  But I'm just looking forward to the weekend.  I mean, this is obviously what you practice and work hard for, to be in contention.  I'm just going to try to enjoy myself and play some good golf.
Q. Do you think it's going to take a lot of birdies over the weekend to win this?
CAROLINE HEDWALL: Yeah, I mean, it's tough out there.  A lot of players can shoot low scores.  You just have to keep making birdies.  Yeah, that's what I'm going to try to do.
Q. What's working well for you right now?
CAROLINE HEDWALL: Well, I think yesterday I started making some putts again, and just knowing that I can actually see the ball going in the hole again is just nice.  I mean, when you're a professional golfer and you can't make a putt, it's just really tough, and it's frustrating, especially when everyone else is making putts.  For me, that just gave me a lot of confidence yesterday, and that's what I'm trying to keep on and move forward to the weekend with.
Q. You are the clubhouse leader, one stroke in the lead.  Yesterday you finished the round one stroke behind the lead.  Tell us what has been working so well for you out there today?
CAROLINE HEDWALL: Well, I've just been striking the ball really well and made a couple of putts.  It could have been a lower today, but I'm really happy with 4-under and 9-under total, and I'm just looking forward to the weekend.
Q. Was the course playing any different today than yesterday?
CAROLINE HEDWALL: Well, it wasn't as windy, and it was coming -- the wind was coming from a different direction, but I mean, I was just hitting it that well that it wasn't even bothering me anything to be honest.  I gave myself a lot of birdie opportunities, and it just felt solid.  It was easy to play golf again.
Q. For you out there, what was it like just keeping your mental game sharp and dealing with the heat out here?
CAROLINE HEDWALL: Well, I mean, just, like I said, I was playing really solid, and it just makes it easier, as well.  I knew I had two par-5s coming up at the end, and I just tried to stay patient, and I mean, I had a lot of chances on the back nine and just didn't really make that many putts, but it was nice to make two birdies on the end there and just finish strong.
Q. Going into the weekend being at the top of the leaderboard, what do you think it'll take to win for this week?
CAROLINE HEDWALL: Well, I mean, we'll see.  I think there's a ton of good players out here, so I probably have to post something like similar to the first two days.  I mean, I'm just going to try to play my game, hit some solid shots and make some putts, and we'll see where it takes me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT