REIGNWOOD LPGA CLASSIC
October 4, 2014
Caroline Hedwall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   Congratulations, first of all.   Would you go through with us some of the highlights of this round.
    CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Well, I think I was playing solid the front nine, but just turned at even par.   Gave myself a lot of birdie opportunities.   Just tried to stay patient through the round.
    I made a lot of putts coming in, so it was just a solid round.   I hit many good shots and made some good putts. 
    I'm really happy.

Q.   Tomorrow you will likely be in the same group as the world No. 1, Stacy.   How would you expect the battle would be like tomorrow?
    CAROLINE HEDWALL:   I played with her yesterday and she was playing really well.   She is really solid.   I'm going to have to shoot a low one tomorrow if I want to win this tournament.
    I put myself in a great position, and I'm looking forward to it.   Should be fun. 
    MODERATOR:   Questions. 

Q.   What did you do during the 50‑minute break, and how big was it to go back out there and sink that putt? 
    CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Well, I just had lunch when I got in there so it was actually a nice break.   I started to get a little hungry out there.
    But obviously it's always nice.   It wasn't an easy putt.   But I was just thinking about it as‑‑ when I enter the practice green in the morning I usually make first putt, so that is the thought I had, is that, Well, even though I haven't hit one now for sometime, I can still make good putts.
    It's a nice feeling though when it went in.

Q.   (Regarding Ryder Cup.)   How much is the rivalry between Europeans and the Americans on the LPGA Tour?   Will you and Stacy have that in mind tomorrow? 
    CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Well, if you don't really think about it (indiscernible).   I guess for me it would be (indiscernible) quite well in the Solheim. 
    It was great watching the Ryder Cup last week.   It just motivated you a lot.   It's such a great atmosphere, so you really want to step up your game and make sure that you make it on the Solheim Cup for next year. 

Q.   You are an excellent player on the tour for several seasons already, but just short of the finally converting it to a championship.   Now you're in such good position tomorrow to claim the title.   Do you kind of find yourself in a kind of feeling also?
    CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Well, of course that would be a (indiscernible) for me winning my first tournament out here.   I put myself in the position a few times but just haven't won yet. 
    So, I mean, when I go out there tomorrow I'm trying to just be patient and be relaxed about it though, because you can't force anything when you're playing golf.
    I feel very comfortable in my game and confident.   And like I said, I'm just going to stay patient.   Hopefully I can win tomorrow.   That's kind of one of my biggest goals for this year and my career, is to win on the LPGA. 

Q.   Very quickly, help us review your career development over the last few years.   Because on the Internet there are some kind of rumors you may turn to skiing or skating or winter sport. 
    CAROLINE HEDWALL:   No, that's just like they ask me, If you weren't a golfer what would you want to be?   I said, I want to be a skier, I guess.   But, no, I'm not going to change careers.
    Just coming up my rookie year I won four times on the Ladies European Tour and I got my LPGA card.   I played okay on the LPGA.   Especially last year I had a good year. 
    This year I started a little bit with an injury in March and have been struggling to come back from that.
    It's nice that I have this tournament now where I feel like I'm back up there and I'm in contention. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT