INTERNATIONAL CROWN
July 26, 2014
Caroline Hedwall
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Anna, another fast start and you didn't let up.   Did you guys feel like you had the momentum going right from the start and kind of just went with it?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Both of us played really well.   It's been a long time since I enjoyed myself this much on a golf course.   We got off to a really good start, Minjee made a long putt on 2 and then I countered with a 15, 20‑footer to stay in it.   Then we made another couple birdies there.
But we were playing really well and I'm just very happy and proud of my team today. 

Q.   You guys went 4‑up on the 8th hole and kind of stayed 4‑up, 4‑up, 4‑up.   Was there any time where you thought, All right, let's close this thing out, and you really wanted to? 
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   We just tried to keep going.   We saw what happened to Australia yesterday, so we didn't want to take anything for granted, just try to win the next hole.   I think we did that well. 

Q.   How much did that match yesterday, seeing Australia kind of get caught up to, being 6‑up, is that kind of it's‑never‑over‑until‑it's‑over mentality? 
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   No, it can happen to any team.   I just think that we tried to ride off the momentum we had from yesterday.   I'm really proud of Pernilla and Mikaela because they played so well yesterday and they lost.   So I'm just very proud of them for fighting.   I saw they were 3‑up after three holes and I knew that they were there to compete today.

Q.   Were you guys watching score boards to see how they were doing? 
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Oh, yeah.
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Oh yeah.

Q.   Have you been doing that all week?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   I have.   I always look at the leaderboard.   The same in team events.

Q.   Seeing the other team doing so well, how much does that help? 
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Well, obviously, today it really helped because we knew we needed the two matches.   It just made us happy, I think. 

Q.   Plans for right now?   Go hit balls?   Go eat?   Go relax and watch the rest unfold?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, everything else is out of our hands right now and there might be a playoff.   If it will be, we'll be ready.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT