INTERNATIONAL CROWN
July 25, 2014
Caroline Hedwall
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  KELLY THESIER: Good afternoon, everyone.   We would like to welcome Anna Nordqvist and Caroline Hedwall from Team Sweden to the interview room here at the International Crown.   They won their match today 1‑up versus Inbee Park and So Yeon Ryu. 
Ladies, it's not always easy when you take on a former No. 1 in the world, and it seemed like Team Korea had a lot of momentum coming into today.   Take us through the match, Anna, what really kind of was the key moment putt do you think in your match today?
ANNA NORDQVIST: We got off to a really good start with birdie, birdie.   And then Inbee holed out 3 for eagle and Caroline hit her drive to about three or four feet for eagle on 4.   So it was a lot of birdies made out there. 
Inbee being Inbee, she's going to make a lot of putts.   So Yeon played really well.   Caroline did, too.   We don't play this format a lot and it's obviously great to play against your friends.
KELLY THESIER:   You guys are now sitting in a tie for third with Australia and you're playing against them tomorrow.   How much motivation is there?   We know top two teams in the pool get to move on, third place team, whoever is in that spot, has a playoff.   How much motivation do you guys have to go out there and make sure that you make it to the final day of play? 
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Well, obviously it's our goal to make it to Sunday, so we're going to be really pumped up coming into tomorrow.   And even though the group behind us, they lost their match, they still played really good golf.   So I think we have a good shot tomorrow.   But it's all about just trying to win every hole and then we'll see what it takes. 
KELLY THESIER:   Both of you have been through Solheim Cups before and experienced this.   But what has it been like hearing everybody saying that you're playing for Team Sweden, to keep looking down and seeing that Swedish flag on your sleeve and hat?   How different has that been over the last two days? 
ANNA NORDQVIST:   I feel very honored to be able to represent Sweden in a team event on a professional level.   There's a lot of pride involved and I just try to fight for myself and for my teammates. 
KELLY THESIER:   Questions? 

Q.   Caroline, have you ever lost a match? 
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   I have, yeah. 
(Laughter.)

Q.   What is it about this format that brings out the best in you? 
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   I think I'm just aggressive player and when I play match play, I can really play aggressive because I can only lose a hole, you know.   While when I play stroke play, maybe I just get a little insecure and just can't play the same aggressive style that I do in match play. 

Q.   Can you give us the details of your two eagles, and then have you ever made two eagles in one round? 
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Yeah, I'm thinking I have made two eagles, but I can't remember. 
(Laughter.)
But I just hit a great drive on number 4.   I never made the putt, they gave me the putt, so it was just a great drive.   And then on 12, they had moved that tee up a little bit, too, so I just hit a 5‑iron into there and made quite a long putt for eagle. 

Q.   The putt they gave you, how long was it? 
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   On 12?   30, 35 feet. 
KELLY THESIER:   The putt that they gave you.
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Oh, that one.   Yeah, four feet.   Four or five feet.   They missed their birdie putts though, so they just gave me that one.

Q.   I'm curious what you two think about what Mikaela is doing out there.   I get winded walking out there and she's five months pregnant, and it's a very hilly golf course, and she played really well today, even though they [loss|lost], as you mentioned.   Can you talk about what she's doing. 
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Yeah, we don't really know what she's doing, to be honest, because we have been playing in front of them.   But I heard she was playing some great golf today and I'm just happy to hear it.   It gives us a good chance tomorrow. 
ANNA NORDQVIST:   I know Mikaela is taking it very serious about this tournament, and she's obviously pregnant, but she says she's been walking at home.   She found out it's a hilly course, so she really came prepared and she really has a great mindset this week.   Even though they lost yesterday, she came up to me and said, You know, isn't it fun to play this format, this match play.   She's just in great spirits and she's been a really good teammate this week. 
KELLY THESIER:   All right.   Thank you very much, ladies.   Best of luck tomorrow.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT