THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 27, 2019
Caroline Hedwall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Very well done today.  How do you feel about the way you played today?
CAROLINE HEDWALL: Well, I hit two bad tee shots really, but managed to get bogeys off of them.  That just gives momentum when you save a bogey like that.  Two times, too.  I mean, I got off to a great start.  I was hitting my irons close and got three birdies in a row, so that was a nice start.
Yeah, I felt like I was playing all right.  At the back nine I just had a couple longer clubs coming in so it was playing tougher.
But, no, I mean, I enjoyed playing.  It was a lot of fun.  Hopefully I can just put a good number on there tomorrow as well.
Q. Those late birdies continued the momentum?
CAROLINE HEDWALL: Oh, absolutely.  Just sticking it close on 15 and then getting that long putt on 16, it meant a lot.
So, yeah.  I mean, I feel like I really fought out there and did a great job to just hang in there and stay in contention.
Q. Last year you won in France.  Shot 62.  Going to be looking for the same again tomorrow?
CAROLINE HEDWALL: Well, that's probably what I'm going to need to do, right?  But, yeah, the thing is I feel like I'm just going to try to enjoy it out there, and then whatever happens, happens.  I'm having a good time and that's the main thing.  I haven't played this well for a long time.  Just going to try to enjoy that and not stress it too much.
That's what I've been doing so far and it's been working.
Q. Must take confidence from three birdies in a row to start with.
CAROLINE HEDWALL: Oh, yeah, absolutely.  Yeah, I got off to a great start.  Happy to be just even par after the first couple holes.
Yeah, I was really pleased with that.  It was just nice to keep the momentum going and get a red score today.
Q. You didn't get shaken by the first bogey then on the 4th?
CAROLINE HEDWALL: No, because just meant a lot to make that putt for a bogey.  Just felt like I got away.  When I went down to look at where my ball was the first time I was thinking, Oh, this is back to the tee.
But then I managed to see some sort of shot, and then when you walk off there with a bogey you're just happy.  It feel like a birdie almost.
Q. Hit driver on that hole?
CAROLINE HEDWALL: Yeah, yeah.
Q. That was a grit recovery shot.
CAROLINE HEDWALL: Yeah, yeah.
Q. We thought we'd never see you again.
CAROLINE HEDWALL: It was quite a bit down there.
Q. They found it for you out there?
CAROLINE HEDWALL: Yeah, yeah, they found it.  Yeah, like there was a branch like just in front of it and I didn't think I could move it.  When I got closer I saw that it wasn't actually -- the ball wasn't leaning on the branch, so I could lift that away and I had a clear shot.
Q. When you say a clear shot, looked as if you were in the middle of a...
CAROLINE HEDWALL: There weren't any trees coming onto the -- like there weren't any trees in the way.
Q. You saw a gap?
CAROLINE HEDWALL: Yeah, I guess a gap, yeah.
Q. (Indiscernible.)
CAROLINE HEDWALL: Yeah, the thing is I wouldn't even go look for that ball.  They were obviously nice and found it for me.  I wasn't as excited, to be honest, because I had just played my provisional in the fairway.  For me, would've been just better it they left it out there.  I wouldn't have looked for it.  Now they got it and I have to go back to the tee again.
But I managed to hit another good tee shot.
Q. You found the ball on the 4th yourself, did you?
CAROLINE HEDWALL: They found it for me on 4.
Q. But you still would've played that one there?
CAROLINE HEDWALL: That one, yeah.  That one I thought was worth it to try.  That one I didn't hit a provisional.  For some reason I thought it was hazard over there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT