U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 27, 2013
Caroline Hedwall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  CHRISTINA LANCE:   We're here with Caroline Hedwall who is in with a 4‑under 68.   Caroline, a great round.   We were talking 8 birdies, 4 bogeys, as you said, not a lot of pars out there.   How did you feel today? 
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Well, I played really solid, and obviously I made a lot of birdies, which is always nice.   I could have made a couple more pars.   I was unfortunate and hit over the green with two wedges during the day and made bogeys, which was unfortunate.   But I'm really happy with the start, and 4‑under is always a good start to a tournament.

Q.   How surprised were you with the course set‑up, and the number of tees being moved up and everything?   Was that surprising? 
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Yeah, I didn't really expect it to play that short, but I tried to just take advantage of it.   And I could hit a lot of wedges into the greens, which helped a lot.

Q.   Can you recall any holes where a change in yardage kind of threw you a little bit or you weren't sure what to expect, or did you handle it okay? 
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Not really.   I worked pretty well with my yardage book and could figure it out pretty quickly.   I had to go down to hitting my 3‑wood a little bit more than my driver, but I wasn't really‑‑ I wasn't bothered by it.   It worked out okay.

Q.   You seem to be finding yourself on TOUR.   Can you talk about the evolution of your game and how you're becoming accustomed to playing here in America? 
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Yeah, I mean, I think I've always been a strong player from tee to green, and I've worked a lot on my putting.   That is finally starting to pay off.   But I'm usually really solid from tee to green.   If I have a good day with my putter, I'm going to shoot long.

Q.   How promising is it that you're able to really kind of keep pace with Inbee Park, especially with a 4‑under in the first round? 
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Well, it's still 50 more holes to go, and it's just the beginning of the tournament.   You can easily shoot a couple over here.   So I'm just happy with a good start of the tournament, and I hope to play as well for the rest of the week.   But I'm not going to have too high of expectations.

Q.   Going back to the up tees and everything, had you practiced from there this week?   The forward tees?
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   No, not really, no.   My swing coach who is caddying for my this week, he was one‑day delayed because he flew in from Copenhagen, so he came in late on Monday.   So we just had Tuesday and Wednesday to prepare, basically.   So I didn't have time to play from that many tees.

Q.   Could you tell me how it is that you got to Oklahoma State and how much of a cultural shock that was from home? 
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Well, it's kind of a tradition for Swedes to go to Oklahoma State.   I think I was the 20th player to play there.   Just they have a really good reputation in Sweden.   I mean, Karsten Creek is an unbelievable golf course. 
It was quite a big difference from Sweden culture‑wise, but that's what I liked about traveling.   And it was a good experience to live in a different culture.

Q.   Can you just tell us what it's been like the last year or so on TOUR when you look at a leaderboard and Inbee Park is almost always there?   What's it like? 
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Well, she's just playing really great golf right now.   She's an unbelievable putter.   I've never seen anyone hole that many putts.   She's, obviously, striking the ball well too, but that's what I see makes the big difference when they start making a lot of putts.   That gives you a lot of confidence.   So I think it's impressive to see her play.

Q.   How much did your good play in the Solheim Cup, what did that do for you? 
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Well, it gave me a lot of confidence that I could perform under that much pressure.   I kind of knew, because I enjoy playing under pressure.   I think it's a lot of fun, and that's what I practice for.   So I think it just gave me more confidence coming in and playing on the LPGA Tour that I knew I could compete against those players.

Q.   Eight birdies in the U.S. Open.   Could you ever imagine making eight birdies in this place the first three days when you were practicing? 
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Well, yeah, it was definitely playing tougher during the practice rounds, but I think it was good that I could take advantage of the course playing a little shorter today.   So I didn't really think about it that I duly made eight birdies.   It was just on a good roll and I made a lot of putts.   It was nice. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT