KIA CLASSIC
March 24, 2012
Caroline Hedwall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome Caroline Hedwall into the interview room.   Congratulations on another solid round 70 for you today.   Can you take me through the day and how it was out there for you?   
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Well, I don't really remember my round.   I just forget about it every time I get in, but I felt like I played pretty solid.   I could have made a couple more birdies.   I felt like I left a lot of putts short, but hopefully they'll roll in tomorrow.   
THE MODERATOR:   I know not quite the ending you would have liked with the bogey on 18.   Can you take me through that hole?  
I just wanted to hole the putt, and got a long second putt.   Oh, well, I will forget about it pretty soon.   
THE MODERATOR:   Still put yourself in position heading into Sunday to be in contention.   To be up there towards the final round, how excited are you to be in this position heading into Sunday?   
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Well, I love being in this position.   This is what I practice for.   I'm very excited about Sunday to start.   
THE MODERATOR:   I know this is unfamiliar territory on the LPGA Tour for you, but it's not overall.   You had such a successful year last year on the Ladies European Tour, named Rookie of the Year.   How much experience did you gain by capturing all your victories there last year and by being able to do what you were able to do on that Tour?   
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Well, I think I'm used to the situation.   It's not really any different from playing in Europe.   I feel the same pressure wherever I am, and hopefully I can play well.  
   
 Q.   It looks like Yani's going to be the leader heading into tomorrow's round.   What difference does it make chasing a player of her caliber?   Someone that's been up there in that No. 1 position for so long?   Do you not even think about who is in that lead spot when you head out to play?   
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Well, I know that she knows how to play well under pressure, and obviously, I'm going to have to get off to a good start and try to put as much pressure as possible on her.   She knows how to win.   That's obvious.  
   
 Q.   Could you talk a little bit about the decision to play on the LPGA Tour this year.   
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Well, I just felt like having such a good year on the European Tour last year, I felt ready to compete against the best players in the world.   So it was a pretty simple decision when I knew I had my full card out here.  
   
 Q.   I believe it was the 12th hole you ended up turning over a club and hitting the shot that was right next to the bunker.   Talk about that.   Do you enjoy those situations that kind of test your ingenuity?   
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Well, I do.   I rally like challenges.   But it's fun because when I practice my short game, play around a lot.   I felt comfortable hitting that shot.   You just have to dare, and that's what I did, and it ended up good.  
   
 Q.   You ended up making that putt, didn't you?   
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Yeah, that's right.  
   
 Q.   You played college golf at Oklahoma State.   That's obviously been a real powerhouse of a men's program.   I'm not positive who was there when you were there.   But I know guys like Kevin Tway and Rickie Fowler.   
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Peter Uihlein and Morgan Hoffman.   Yeah, there are plenty of them.  
   
 Q.   So you knew a lot of those guys from your time there?   
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Well, Rickie played on the team my first year and a lot of other great guys, obviously.   It's great to see them practice and hit the ball.   It was a great experience.  
   
 Q.   Did you ever get involved in matches with those guys or playing with them in charity tournaments or anything like that?   
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   A couple of times, but I like to practice by myself.   It's enough just to look at how they practice and how they hit the ball.  
   
 Q.   Your English is impeccable.   Have you been studying it from a young age?   
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Well, thanks.   No, I pretty much learned English when I came over to the states.   I obviously knew a little bit of English before I came over here, but that helped a lot just to help to speak English all the time.  
   
 Q.   What did the Solheim Cup experience do for your confidence?   
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Well, it was just an unbelievable week.   After that week I felt like I could compete against the best players in the world.   Suzann was there and Cristie Kerr was there and a lot of good players.   It was great for my confidence.   
I also felt that I could perform under pressure because that's pretty much the most pressure you can get.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT