OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 15, 2011
Caroline Hedwall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about your highlights of the year?  
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Well, highlights is definitely my four wins, but the best highlight is the Solheim Cup.   That was just the best week, one of the best weeks of my life.   So it was such a good week and so much fun, and to win the Solheim Cup my rookie year, too, that's just unbelievable.   So overall it's been a great season.  
   
 Q.   That pep talk, that was a bit of a motivation, right, at the Solheim Cup, the last day when you had three holes to go.   
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Yeah.   We went out in the cart, and yeah, that was cool that Suzann told us that we need to get our points, and we did.   It was just ‑‑ yeah.  
   
 Q.   Just tell me what happened.   It was a weather delay, and you went out, were picked up on a buggy?  
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Yeah.   We all sat on a buggy to go out to our holes, and Suzann was like, guys, us three, we really need to get our points, and if we can do that, we will win.   And Anna and I were like, yeah.   I guess I was really focused on turning my match around, and I think Aza, too, she really likes pep talks, and I think for her it was very important to hear those words.   It was for me, too.   So it was, yeah.   
And just for me I think it was even better when I saw Suzann do it herself.   She holed the putt on 15, she holed the putt on 17 and then on 19.   That was really great to see.   
   
 Q.   Did you see it?  
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Yeah, because I was in the group behind her, so I mean I saw every putt she holed.   I saw on 16, and I saw the one on 17 after Michelle had holed hers, and they were all celebrating, and that was just awesome of Suzann to hole her putt after them celebrating so much.   And then on 18, that was it.   
   
 Q.   So how many holes did you have to play when you had the break, when you came back from the break, because I know you birdied the last two holes.   Did you have like four to go?  
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Yeah.   I think so.   Four to go.   
   
 Q.   All right.   And I read an article on line, you said you were going to buy yourself a bed.   So I assume you've already bought that bed.   
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   What are you going to do?  
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   I don't know.   I mean ‑‑ I don't know.   We will see how I spend the money.   Maybe I will travel a bit nicer next year.   
   
 Q.   Yeah.   Maybe you'll buy your own house some day.   
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Yeah.   Well, I don't have enough yet, but that's the goal for the future.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible).   
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   No.   I still live with my parents.   I don't think I'm going to buy anything in Sweden.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible).   
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Yeah, it's just been an unbelievable season with four wins.   I never expected that.  
I hoped to be able to be in the top in a few events, but I've won four, so it's great.   I can't believe it, to be honest, but the highlight was definitely the Solheim Cup, to be on the winning team there.   That's probably what I'm going to think back on most often.   
   
 Q.   And this week I see you're chasing Sophie.   
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Well, we'll see.   I had a better round today, so I have no idea how anyone else has played, but I guess I need to finish Top 8 or something to pass her, but we'll see.   It's not that important, to be honest.   It would be a nice finish to the season, but it's not like it would ruin my season if I didn't do that.   
   
 Q.   And looking forward to next year, what's your target now?  
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Well, I'm going to play a little bit more of the LPGA next year and focus a little bit more on that, so I'm excited to just get to the next level.  
   
 Q.   And what about, is it difficult on this course?   (Inaudible).   You're sort of getting used to it as it were, as you go along really?   How do you feel about the course?  
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Well, yesterday I don't think I was prepared, especially not for the greens.   It was a big adjustment from India last week.   So today it felt way better.   I just putted awful yesterday, and I didn't hit it that bad, but just wasted a lot of shots on the greens and today it felt way better and I think I know my strategy a little bit better today, so hopefully I can play even better tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   And ultimately, although you've had an awful lot of personal accolades, your highlights is a team victory with Europe.   Is that what you'll take away from the year is the Solheim Cup win?  
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Yeah.   I guess as a golfer, it's just so much fun to play on a team sometimes, and I think that win just ‑‑ I don't know, it's just so much more fun to win as a team rather than when you're on your own.   And that's why I think that's what I'm going to remember the most.   
   
 Q.   There's a lot of talk why there's not many Europeans in the world rankings.   Just briefly what do you think is the reason for that?  
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Well, I think it's just about time until there will be a lot of Europeans.   We had a lot of rookies on the Solheim Cup team and we're pretty young, so we haven't had that much time to get up on the.  
   
 Q.   World rankings.   
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Yeah.   Right.   So if you can just give us a few years, we might be more up there, might be more people up there, I'm sure.   
   
 Q.   Will you get to the No. 1 spot?  
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   That's my goal, yeah.   We'll see if it happens, but yeah, I hope so.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT