OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 12, 2011
Caroline Hedwall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome Caroline Hedwall to the media centre at Dubai Ladies Masters.   This is your first appearance here.   How excited are you to be playing in the tournament? 
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Well, I'm very excited.   I've heard so much good about this course and Dubai, and I'm very excited to be here and just see Dubai for the first time.
THE MODERATOR:   So how do you feel after your victory yesterday at the Hero Women's Indian Open? 
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Well, it's just a great victory and very good for my self confidence coming into this week, and I feel like my game is on top right now and hopefully I can play well this week, too.

Q.   What are your first impressions of Dubai?
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Well, I did get to see quite some of Dubai this morning because we got a taxi from the airport, and he took an hour to get here.   Yeah, he was kind of confused with the directions, the driver.   I guess it was his first day at work. 
But it's a cool place, obviously.   I mean the buildings are just amazing, so I'm excited to see more of it. 

Q.   You teed it up, of course, with Melissa Reid at the Solheim Cup, but now you're hoping to outdo her and finish second in the money list.   Tell me about that. 
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Well, I did gain a little bit on her now that I won last week, so I think now it's more realistic to think that I could pass her this week.   Before then it was a pretty large gap, but it's definitely a goal for this week, but we'll see.   It kind of depends on how she plays, too. 

Q.   Caroline, how are you feeling after season?   It's been a whirlwind year for you with four tournament victories, I believe.   How do you feel?
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Well, to be honest, I hardly can believe this year.   I mean it's just been so good, and if you told me I would have won four times on the LET, I probably wouldn't believe you, so it's just been unbelievable.   I probably can't relate to it yet because I need some time off to just think back on this year.   But it's been great, for sure.

Q.   How much is winning last week going to affect you this week?   Obviously to follow up a win with another win?   Is it going to help you, the momentum, or is it going to take a little bit out of you as well?
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Well, I guess I haven't thought about it.   I have a lot of self‑confidence, and hopefully I can keep that for this week, and if I can do that, I still have a chance to win back to back.

Q.   Caroline, the guts and composure you showed, particularly in your Solheim Cup singles was phenomenal.   Do you think that performance and that exposure has perhaps put you on the map and is that characteristic of the overall player that you are or was that play very different to how you've been the rest of the year?
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   No.   I think that was pretty much the kind of player I am.   I love being in the situation where I'm under pressure, and that's the highlight for me. 
I mean everyone is just asking me all the time after the win, but for me it's when I'm winning, like when I have to perform under pressure, that's the highlight of it and that's when I enjoy the most when I can perform under pressure.   So I would say that's pretty much the type of player I am.   I dare to win and I dare to lose.

Q.   Caroline, you don't believe in setting goals for yourself.   Maybe next year will you have any goals for yourself?
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Well, I haven't really thought about goals for next year, to be honest.   I really need some time off before I can do that.   But I mean I hope to improve next year and have a great year next year.

Q.   Have you thought about winning and being compared with Annika?
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Yeah.   You always get compared with Annika being from Sweden, so I'm pretty used to it, and of course it's an honour to just be mentioned with her, and I hope I can be as successful, even though it will be tough.

Q.   Sweden has a tradition of producing very good women's golf. 
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Well, I think we ‑‑ I mean it's a pretty small country, but it's a public sport and a lot of Swedes play golf.   It's a big percentage in Sweden that plays, and I think we have a great junior tour where we get to compete against each other and we also have a professional tour, both for men and women, which helps us compete, and that's what you have to do.   You have to compete a lot, and we can do that in Sweden. 

Q.   Any pressure this week in finishing second?
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Not really pressure.   I don't look at it that way.   But of course.   That would be a good way to finish the season. 

Q.   Caroline, in your younger career you won quite a few accolades quite quickly as well.   Did that sort of set you up nicely for when you moved into the professional realm?   Once you get that taste, do you just want more of it and more of it and more of it kind of thing?
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Yeah.   From my amateur career I got used to winning a couple tournaments pretty much, and if you start winning, you want to do it more of course.   And I think for me it's helped me a lot even though I'm playing for money now.   It's still prestige winning and it's the same feeling being out there and just performing under pressure.   It's exactly the same, and since I enjoy it, it's no different from being a pro.

Q.   We have a strong field in this tournament and we have nine players from the United States in this tournament.   (Inaudible). 
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Oh, yes.   I mean, like you say, it's people from all over the world, and it's a great field, so I'm excited to play. 

Q.   Would this be the biggest victory of your career were you able to win this week, do you think?
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Yeah.   Based on the competition in this tournament, yeah, it would be my greatest victory in that case.

Q.   Just talk us through this year how you performed, and your thoughts on the majors. 
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Oh, you mean ‑‑ what do you mean? 

Q.   The big four. 
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Well, I didn't play ‑‑ the only major I played was the women's British Open.

Q.   Oh, okay.   So how did you do?
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   I finished like 30th, I think.   Something like that.
THE MODERATOR:   Your twin sister, Jacqueline, is joining you, this week, I believe.
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Yeah.   She's flying in Tuesday night, so she's going to caddie for me at the tournament.

Q.   So will you have any sightseeing visits planned?
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   I hope so.   I want to go to the mall, and I want to see the ski slope that's indoors.   But we'll see how much time I have.

Q.   (Inaudible). 
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Yeah.   Hopefully.   We'll see how much time I get.   It's a busy week now, and we only have two days to prepare for it.

Q.   Have you heard anything about the golf course?
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Well, the only thing I've heard is that it's a great golf course and it's always in great shape.   So I'm excited to play it.

Q.   Are you going to go out and play today?
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Yeah.   I'm going to play 18 today later this afternoon. 
THE MODERATOR:   Any more questions? 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT