WIMBLEDON
June 21, 2004
Paradorn Srichaphan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  First question, please.


Q.  Obviously, it must be very disappointing for you, especially after you did so well last week?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Yeah, it's happen so quickly, you know.  Just winning the tournaments and one day off, practicing a little bit, like half an hour, just loosening my body up, and playing today first round.  Is kind of difficult.  Because my opponent today is really have a big game, especially on his serve.  Yeah, he's serving well today.  And, you know, it's always tough to play a guy, like, how tall is he? 

Q.  6'10.

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  6'10, you know, so, yeah, it's difficult.  But he serves big.  Plus, I think he's playing pretty well today.  I have no rhythm to hitting the ball.  It's kind of difficult to play this guy, especially on grass. 

Q.  When he serves that big, it is difficult to get in a rhythm. 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Hmm.

Q.  When you saw the draw, what was your reaction?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Well, like, "Oh, no." 

Q.  Not the best one?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Well, could be the worst one, I mean, you know.  Yeah, first I heard that I'm playing him.  "All right, is gonna be tough, you know."  Not gonna be like long, long, match, but gonna be quick point and, you know, like a lot of serving and coming in.  A lot of free point. 

Q.  It seemed to me that after you won the first set, your backhand starting letting you down a little bit.  You were missing it not by much sometimes, but...

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Well, just like I said, I mean, I broke him like three times in the first set.  After that, I feel like  - I don't know  - just I feel more difficult to play.  I don't know.  It's like he just hitting the ball, and I'm kind of  -- I mean, first set 6-3.  And I don't think I am hitting the ball enough to get rhythm to warming up my body yet. But I just, you know, on his serve, I just try to just chipping the ball to his feet.  So that's all I have to do.  So actually that's my game plan.  But, you know, he serves big, but not big, big like Andy Roddick.  Just the direction is coming, it's just from the high...

Q.  It is high.

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  It is very high.  Yeah, I mean, it's like you sitting and hitting from the service line.  It's coming really high, from the high direction.  So it's...

Q.  What made the difference after the first set? 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  You know, I won the first set 6-3, and then I have a tough time on my serve and he's kind of getting into the match and try to  -- I mean, obviously, he have nothing to lose because he just coming out here and try his best.  He did well here last year, too.  He beating Hewitt here.  Well, his service game is make me to play difficult.  And, you know, if I lost my serve, I mean, oh, it's gonna be tough to break him back. 

Q.  So when you did it in the beginning of the fourth set, I think you were pretty frustrated about that.

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Oh, I mean, first game.  I mean, after I losing the third set, I was like, "All right, I gonna try to concentrate to play my service game.  Just try to hold it.  At least I lost in the tiebreaker if I, you know, holding my serve."  In the beginning of the fourth set, I lost my serve, yeah.  Very difficult to break him back.

Q.  Do you feel you actually paid for your success at Nottingham at all?  Do you feel drained?  That was an amazing recovery you staged against Johansson.

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Well, yes.  If you talk about that tournament in Nottingham, I would say it's my fifth title.  So it's a great week for me.  I been playing well there.  And always coming to the  -- after the tournament is another tournament.  Is not the same tournament.  So you have to try to adjust yourself as soon as you can.  If not, then you know...

Q.  Do you feel you have done that, or you think you haven't had enough time to do that?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Well, I think I done that pretty well, you know.  Yesterday I come out and hit at the practice court.  I hitting like 45 minutes.  I feel good, I'm ready to go.  Even I'm playing today.  But maybe not really first on, you know.  Maybe a bit relaxing.  But, well, I can't choose anyway.  But, yeah, I'm ready to go on the first match today at 12.  But just like I say, the game is just difficult.  His game is not like other player. 

Q.  Do you think it might have made a difference if you had played tomorrow or just...

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Well, it wouldn't be much different, I guess, because, you know, his game is different than other people.  I don't think anybody playing like him. 

Q.  Was it difficult for you with the delays for the rain?  It seemed quite difficult to get back into the swing of things.

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Actually, I know what's gonna happen, you know, in the tournament.  It's very normal rain on and off.  So I was ready to go back and forward between the court and the locker room.  So, you know, we both play in the same terms, so I don't mind at all to walk in and out. 

Q.  You also seemed to have a few problems once or twice with your first serve going into the net. 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Uh-hmm.

Q.  Was that just a particular problem of the day?  Was it particularly difficult today?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Well, yeah.  My plan was try to serve and coming in a bit.  But after I'm hit the first serve to the net, and then I have to really try to kick it in.  His slice is very good.  It's kind of weird.  The ball is coming, and slice out.  Difficult, not easy. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT