AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 25, 2004
Paradorn Srichaphan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First English question, please.  
 
 
Q.  Obviously, disappointed to not go any further. 
 
PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Well, no, I'm not disappointed.  It was great match.  He's playing really well.  He was moving me a lot today side to side.  I trying my best.  I have a chance in the first set, I think for set point, at 5-4, Love-40 on his serve.  He did well, he come back and take a first set.  
 
Q.  I know the surface is obviously different, but what was he doing differently than, say, Wimbledon?
 
PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Well, yeah, I think -- at Wimbledon, I try to keep the ball like slice, so to the middle of the court, which is I do today.  But it doesn't work here because the ball is doesn't go that low.  Is bounce high.  So he can hit the ball the way he like it.  And, yeah, I think we both playing good tennis today and it's lot of long rally.  You know, he's really tough to -- he's really move his opponent around.  Just getting -- go for the one that he can.  
 
Q.  How is the ankle? 
 
PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  It's hurting.  
 
Q.  Is it just a sprain? 
 
PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Yeah.  I try to move from the backhand side to go to get the forehand and then it just roll it.  It's pain that moment, and then it's gone.  And then I was sit down and ask the trainer.  And the trainer say, "Do you need some ice?" 
 I say, "I think I'm okay."  The next game, I walk to play the next game.  I feel the pain so bad.  Plus was down two set to love and was down a break.  Is tough to come back.  
 
Q.  So, I mean, obviously the match was slipping away at that point.  But, obviously, it was hurting you for the rest of the match, was it? 
 
PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Well, I mean, that time it was 3-2 up the break already.  You know, just like I said, it's really tough to come back.  Even I'm perfect, even I'm not twist my ankle, still tough to come back and win the match.  
 
Q.  Just about the first set, when you look back on the four set points, was there much you could have done differently?
 
PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Yeah, I think I didn't take my time at all at Love-40 'cause we been playing a long point from -- till I get to Love-40, I get three set point.  And then I didn't take my time.  I saw him ready and I just, you know, go and get ready and play the point.  He did it well.  He serve couple out wide, then hit the winner from the forehand and just hit the line.  Yeah, if I take my time little bit, it would be little different because we was playing a long point before.  And we both like breathing so hard.  So I didn't take my time at all at Love-40. 
 
Q.  You got a good reception there at the end.  Do you enjoy being out there? 
 
PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Yeah.  Just like, you know, before I'm playing this match, I'm really looking forward to play.  This is my best result in Australian Open, reaching the fourth round.  I very happy to be out there and try my best.  You know, he's playing a lot better, so... 
 
Q.  How many times have you played on Rod Laver? 
 
PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  This is third time.  
 
Q.  What's next for you now then? 
 
PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Well, I'm going home, get some rest, and Davis Cup the week after Australian Open.  And then another week off.  Then going to Rotterdam, go to Europe for three weeks, and then play Indian Wells and Miami. 
 
Q.  That time off will be for training?
 
PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Yeah, I'm gonna take a couple days off, maybe three, four days, no tennis.  Then start to practice, just get ready for Davis Cup, then maybe one or two days of, and then practice again and going to Rotterdam. 
 
Q.  Who are you playing?
 
PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  We're playing Pakistan in Thailand.  
 
Q.  Whereabouts in Pakistan? 
 
PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  In Thailand. 
 
Q.  Bangkok, is it?
 
PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Bangkok.  
 
Q.  Just on the big stage, what do you feel like you're meant to do to take the next step? 
 
PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  I mean, I feel like my game have almost everything.  Just, you know, if I can come into the net more to finish the point at the net, it would be helping my game a lot because I think I'm stay on the baseline too much - maybe not too much, because is my game.  I have to be confident to hit the ball to, you know, the weakness of my opponent, which is backhand or forehand, then try to come in and finish the point at the net.  
 
Q.  Did you have some nail clippers sent out early in the match?
 
PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Yeah, I been away from home quite long and nail are getting long.  One of my nail just hit with the string or something, so it just crack.  So I ask for the nail clipper to just cut it (smiling).  
 
Q.  What are your impressions of Melbourne by sort of playing here and sight-seeing or relaxing?
 
PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  I didn't do anything much.  I been playing here since I was playing Juniors since I was 16 or 17.  My memory here is always like is very windy here to play in Australia.  But as many years that I been playing here, I learning a lot how to play in the windy condition.  It's look like I did it well.  I get more experience.  You know, reaching my first time fourth round here, I'm really happy about it.  Hopefully, I can come back next year and do it better.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT