adidas International
January 14, 2004
Paradorn Srichaphan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Paradorn, please.


Q.  It looked like you had the match in your hands and then...

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Yeah, it's happen sometimes that.  Firstly, he's playing really good, and he's trying so hard today to winning the match.

But I have a chance to close the match at --

Q.  5-2.

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Yeah, I was up 5-2 and he was serving at 15-40.  You know, it's happen (smiling). 

Q.  Yes.

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Yeah.  So, yeah, he playing good, moving well.

Q.  The conditions were not the best. 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Well, we both play in the same court, so it's, you know...  The condition is different than yesterday.  So I think it's could go either way today, so, you know, is tough call. 

Q.  Even though you only had two games this morning, the fact that you had to get yourself up for two sort of encounters today, did that make it more difficult psychologically?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  No, I would say it's good to get it done, even maybe one game or two games.  So I'm glad that I pull it out 6-1 for the match that delay from last night.  But, you know, I have to get ready for this match to play Tommy. 

Q.  Psychologically, though, was that difficult to do that twice in a day? 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Of course it's different because normally if I finish the match last night, I would thinking about Tommy Robredo match.  But I have to thinking about winning this match first, now thinking to play Robredo.  But I don't think it's complicated for me.  It's get it done first match, and play second round.  And, you know, we play good match.  Just tiebreak in the third, so it was close match. 

Q.  Now that you're among the Top 10 seeds for the Australian Open, how do you feel about going into the Australian Open where you're highly recognized now and you're a hero in Thailand?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Yeah, it's feel, you know, to be seeded is nice and to play in Melbourne.  You know, I would think that the conditioning is like home  - the weather is hot.  I start the year well with finalist in Chennai last week.  Play well yesterday, a bit today.  Just unlucky today.  Tomorrow is Thursday, so I have four days.  Maybe tomorrow day off.  Practicing and get ready for Melbourne.  It would be great to get my body refreshing a little bit.

Q.  Are you expecting a lot of support in Melbourne?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  I would think so, yeah.  There's gonna be a lot of people come out.  Even they coming from Thailand to see first Grand Slam of the year.

Q.  That's important for you? 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Yeah, it's always nice to have the people especially from your country coming out and watch your match and cheering for you. 

Q.  Do you still feel like you've got some momentum going this year after making the finals?  How much of a disappointment is this loss today?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Well, I mean, if I win today, I would make quarterfinals; same like last year.  I play Robredo last year  -- I mean last week in Chennai.  He has six matchpoints, and I pull it out.  But today I have two matchpoint, but he came back and win it.  So is very difficult to maintain, like, you know...is tough call, I should say. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT