NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 28, 2003
Paradorn Srichaphan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Paradorn. 


Q.  You've had such a good run in this tournament, three very close victories.  Why do you think you weren't able to put up more of a fight tonight? 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Well, firstly, Moya is playing really well tonight.  He not really give me a chance to get into the game and get back to the game after I lost my serve.  You know, his inside-out forehand is really good tonight.  He's serving well.  I try to get back to the game, but he didn't let me any chance. 

Q.  So you think it was more what he did than you weren't really playing well?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Well, I think I'm playing okay.  You know, he always put me like off the position.  And then he just go for the next point.  And especially, I try to play  -- I try to keep the ball in the court.  He just ripping the ball winner, you know.  He's just playing great. 

Q.  Were you still feeling tired at all from that three-setter with Todd the other night?  

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  I think I'm okay, but it's been a long two weeks since I get here.  And, you know, a few tough matches, but, you know, I have day off yesterday and I'm ready to play tonight and, you know, he just playing better. 

Q.  Disappointed with tonight, happy with your week?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Of course, I'm really happy about my tournaments here, and, you know, this is my second time here in main draw.  I been playing here  -- I been start to playing here first time in qualifying.  I think first time I'm not qualifying yet for this tournament.  So if I'm looking back, it's really great that finally I reaching semifinal.  Hopefully, come back here and do well again.

Q.  What do you take away from this tournament? 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Well, I think, of course, that second semis Masters Series, and, you know, I have to try to get my experience and first time I play him.  He's great player, so...

Q.  What is your schedule from now?  Are you going to have a bit of time off?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  I have a little break, maybe two weeks, and I'm going home. 

Q.  And then? 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  And then Monte-Carlo. 

Q.  Do you feel that you sort of got your game back this week?  I guess you struggled for a couple weeks?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  I think so, yeah.  I'm really happy that finally I won the match because after Australian Open, I play San Jose and Memphis, Scottsdale and Indian Wells, and those four matches, I didn't do well at all.  So, finally, the week before I'm going home, so I just try to play my best and try to get my confidence back before it's going to play on clay court season. 

Q.  What did you think of the crowd again tonight?  Do you enjoy playing night matches here?  What about the atmosphere?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Yeah, it's feel great out there, especially night match.  First match, 7 o'clock.  It's lot of people out there.  And I think I showed them some great tennis and I hope they enjoyed it. 

Q.  Coming back for more next year?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  I would love to.  This is great tournaments. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT