AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 15, 2003
Paradorn Srichaphan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  What are your main emotions, thoughts about that match at the moment?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Well, I really enjoy the match firstly.  You know, I know was going to be great tennis because Mark, he's playing well right now.  You know, he's former Top 10 in the world.  He's a great player.  And it was really exciting today.  You know, it was a lot of fun out there.  I just tried to enjoy the match as much as I can. 

Q.  How was the Australian crowd?  Intimidating to play?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  You know, it's a lot of fun.  That's what I'm expecting.  It's going to be loud.  Every point is going to be exciting.  I just feel that, well, they are nice.  When I'm playing well, they are also, you know, cheering for me.  It was fun.  It was a great game. 

Q.  How do you feel about the Australian Open trying to encourage more Asian players to be involved, increasing the number of wildcards, calling it the Grand Slam of the Asia-Pacific?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  I feel it's great.  I'm really thankful for Australia tennis, trying to put the Asia tennis together.  It's great for the Asian tennis player, too, that they can at least get one Asian player men's and woman to play in the main draw.  They've been giving away the wildcard to the Asian player every year, which is great for Asian tennis. 

Q.  In fact, it started your roll really, didn't it?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Yeah.  I mean, you know, I get the wildcard last year, I'm playing here.  It's really first step that I have a chance to play in the main draw in Australian Open.  You know, I come back this year, I've been doing well so far, I'm a seeded player this year.  I'm really great that I make a big jump. 

Q.  You must be very pleased that an ATP tournament is coming to Thailand.  What is your reaction?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Well, I really happy that finally they put one ATP tournament in my hometown in Bangkok, in Thailand.  It's really great for Thai tennis and also Asian tennis that they have another tournament in Asia.  What a great time that I'm still doing well.  Definitely I going to play that tournament in Bangkok.

Q.  Tonight's match, did the amount of chip-charging tactics by Mark, the number of times he did it, did that surprise you or unnerve you a bit?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  I know that he going to chip and charge on the second serve.  But he's serving well today.  He hold his serve, you know, really well from the fourth set and the final set.  You know, he just play at the right time, the right place.  6-5, he was returning my serve, and he make a good point, chip and charged really sharp, then I missed the passing shot.  Like the final set, 4-3, he just played great tennis.  You know, he's a tough player, so he played really good today.

Q.  You've beaten Top  5 players in the last 12 months.  The way Mark was playing tonight, was his standard of play getting up towards that?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Well, you know, he's a Top 10.  But he was injury.  You know, I'm glad that he make it back, and hopefully he can do it better.  It's great for tennis because his game is big game.  So I'd like to see the player like that, you know, come out and have a big game like that. 

Q.  You enjoyed your tennis tonight?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  I have nothing to say because I was really  -- before the match, my plan was, you know, holding my serve as long as I can.  No, it was great tennis.  You see the score.  It's a five-setter.  You know, second and third is 6-1, 6-1.  But still in the game is really tough, a lot of great point.  We both trying hard to win it tonight.  The crowd was great today.  It's a lot of people today.  It was a lot of fun. 

Q.  Do you walk off the court proud of your performance or disappointed that you haven't got through with the win?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Well, no.  Whether I win or lost, it's just the game.  Just try to give them my best, you know, that I'm trying hard.  As you can see, I split my leg.  Just trying my best, and he play a better tennis.  He just win today.  I don't feel disappointed at all because I was just trying to won the crowd, try my best.

Q.  Is it one of the biggest matches you ever played in your career, center court, night match against a home-town favorite?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Well, sure, this is really big match.  Yeah, just like you said, home crowd, you know, night match.  It was great, great tennis.

Q.  How would you compare this to the Rusedski match in New York?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Well, this really close to that match.  It's a night match.  You know, it was a great match.  They both have a big serve.  You know, those two match, I mean  -- with tonight match, I would think I love that two match.  Even I lost, I still enjoy.  The crowd was packed.  You know, it's just feel so great out there.  Just try to enjoy myself.  I feel a little bit, you know, disappointed a little bit after I lost my service game at 4-3, then he broke my serve, and he's serving for the match.  I try to come back, but it's tough to break him again because he's really confidence right now.

Q.  Can you compare the two crowds?  New York crowd is always known to be noisy.  Here you were fighting against the home crowd. 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Compared to those two matches, I think in New York more people more going for me because, you know, I'm like upcoming player play Rusedski.  Here, I play against Philippoussis, his hometown.  But I don't feel that bad because, you know, it's great to play out there.  I know that I try my best.  I know that the crowd really enjoy it tonight.

Q.  Can you do the splits all the way to the floor?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Yes. 

Q.  Both ways?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Easier this way, not this way. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT