TMS - MADRID
October 15, 2002
Paradorn Srichaphan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 

Q.  Another good win.  It's gone wonderfully well for you. 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Yes.  It looks like it just keep coming and coming.  You know, well, I feel confidence to go on court with anybody.  You know, I just thinking that I have nothing to lose to anybody, so I just go out there and try to play my best.  That's how it's happen. 

Q.  Your backhand is getting better and better. 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Well, at least especially today from the back of the court, backhand down the line, trying to make him run a little bit, just get ready for the next shot. 

Q.  You have an interesting match coming up again now. 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Henman? 

Q.  Yes.  After playing him recently. 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  I'm playing Tim four times already.  I haven't win one yet.  But tomorrow I going to try my best because he's a great player.  What a wonderful game he has, serve and volley.  He also play from the back of the court.  You know, I just go out there and try to play my best. 

Q.  What made the difference between who was the winner when you played in the Davis Cup?  As far as you're concerned, what was the difference?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Well, it's two match, best-of-three.  In Davis Cup was best-of-five.  It's not going to be as loud when I was playing in England against him. 

Q.  How do you explain such a big change from one season to another? 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Yeah, well, it start in Chennai, the first week of the year, ATP tournament in Chennai.  I reach the final.  I don't know, after that I just feel like I can do it, I can play well if I keep practicing.  After that final, I feel more confidence to go on court. 

Q.  You had one or two injury problems at the Davis Cup.  Are you fully fit now?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Yeah, I hurt my knee during Davis Cup a little bit.  After that, I take a couple days off, then it just fine.  Whenever I feel injury myself, anywhere of my body, I'm not really resting, but I just going to like work out a little bit where I have pain.  So just building it stronger.

Q.  Do you feel that your game adapts better to baseliners? 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Well, I think so.  You know, my game, since I was young, I'm one of the player hit the ball hard from the back of the court.  What I have to do, I think, for the next couple months, I think I will try to come to the net a little bit more to finish the point off.

Q.  Do you prefer to play against a baseliner or against a serve and volleyer? 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  My best result to be the guy, the baseliner.  Yeah, I feel confidence to stay back.  If I have to play the guy coming into the net, I like it, too, but it's more difficult to make the passing shot.  But is not going to be that long, you know.  It's going to be quick point.

Q.  By the time Paris finishes, you will have played seven weeks in a row.  Are you looking for a big finish? 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Well, yeah, you know, this tournament and two more tournaments, I'll be done of the year.  It's only three more tournaments.  Yeah, I'm looking for the big finish, have a good rest before the new year.

Q.  Do you think you have enough time for a rest?  You haven't been to Thailand for a while. 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Yeah, you know, my friends always told me that "You maybe need a Visa for Thailand to go back there."  I haven't been home a lot.  I'm going to have time off, almost two months, so I think that's enough. 

Q.  Coming back to today's match, you played very well, but do you think Guga was perhaps slower than usual or perhaps a bit tired?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  He could be tired because he was playing final last week in Vienna. 

Q.  In Lyon. 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Lyon.  But, well, I mean, to me, I think he's playing well.  He's moving a little bit slow or maybe I'm moving him a lot. 

Q.  How far do you think you can go in the tournament? 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Every tournament, when it come to the tournament, I always look at the first round first, who I'm going to play.  I try to win my first round.  I try to go like match by match.  I'm not really looking that far.  Let's say tomorrow I play Henman, I just going to go out there and play my best.  I'm not looking like I'm going to make quarters or semifinals or something like that.

Q.  Your father tapes the whole of the match.  Do you actually go back and watch that?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Yes.

Q.  Do you watch all of it or some of it?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Some of it, not all of it.

Q.  Will he pinpoint certain areas?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Well, he's not filming from the back of the court.  He's just filming myself.  When I watch it, he's kind  -- I see myself on the video.  It's about the movement, what I going to do. 

Q.  Will he have something up his sleeve?  You played Henman just a little while ago.  He played tremendously well that day.  Do you think there will be something in your game that he'll try and play differently tomorrow?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Well, firstly, the court is different than last time.  Last time in England, the court's pretty fast.  Here it's a little slower.  I don't know. 

Q.  Are you saying the crowd was a huge factor, that intensity, the atmosphere?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  The last time? 

Q.  Yes. 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Yes, I would say so.  I mean, but he's playing well, too.

Q.  It was very quiet out there today.  A lot of times when you won the points, it was quite quiet. 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Today, right? 

Q.  Today. 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Well, you know, Guga is big name.  I mean, is everywhere the crowd want a big name to stay in the tournament.  I understand that.  But, you know, I think is bigger news if some guys, I would say no name beating big name, going to be bigger news.

Q.  You've improved your standing, whichever way you look at it, the race or the entry system, by nearly a hundred places this year.  Did you set yourself any target at the beginning of the year? 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Well, before reaching the first final in Chennai, the first week of this year, my ranking is like 115.  I target myself to come back to Top 100, try to make Top 50 by the end of the year.  I mean, right now I'm 28, so I already break through to Top 30.  I'm pretty much reaching my goal.  You know, three more tournaments, if I'm doing well, this could be, I would say, maybe Top 25 or Top 20.

Q.  What did you improve from before and after Chennai?  You are showing a strong determination.  I think the determination was also before. 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Yeah.  Before I used to go for the shot a lot.  I hit the same  -- I hit hard from the back of the court.  Before I used to go to winner all the time from anywhere of the court.  So, you know, sometimes really difficult to hit the winner from anywhere of the court.  I'm kind of working the ball a little bit, moving side to side, waiting for the next shot at the right time to go for it.

Q.  Would you say in the recent matches you've had, when you played Henman in Birmingham, that was as good a performance against you that you've had in the last few months perhaps?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Yes.

Q.  Since when, perhaps?  When was the last time someone played that well against you? 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Well, I would say Greg Rusedski in US Open.  I mean, that's one of my best match.  Even I lost that match, I feel like I'm playing great, and he playing great.  You know, that's one of my best match, too. 

Q.  What do you think of the Spanish public? 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  My first time in Madrid.  I feel the crowd, they are nice.  Well, I think when I first walk on court with Guga, I think more noise, "Let's go, Guga," something like that.  I always used to it.  I always walk on court with a bigger name.  I used to it, just stay low, just show them what I have. 

Q.  Do you think now the Spanish crowd can adopt you as one of their favorites?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Yes, I think so (smiling). 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT