WIMBLEDON
June 26, 2002
Paradorn Srichaphan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions. 


Q.  Is that the best win of your career by a long way? 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Sorry, I didn't hear you? 

Q.  Is that the best win of your career by a long way?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Yeah.  He's No. 3 in the world, right?  Yeah, I think so.  Yeah.  But I think when Norman No. 3 in the world, I also beat him in three sets in 1998. 

Q.  What do you think was a major factor behind your victory? 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Well, I mean, this is really good for, you know, Thai tennis that I'm playing on Centre Court today and I really glad to be out there.  First time to play Andre.  He's, I mean, he's a great player.  I just play my best today so it just happen.

Q.  Why has it taken four years till you beat another No. 3 in the world? 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  That's a good question.  Because I didn't play another No. 3 in the world, so this is just my second time that I play No. 3 again (smiling).  Well... (Laughter).

Q.  I read in handbook you sometimes take a piece of grass and put it in your pocket before the game.  Did you get a piece?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Actually, I didn't did it.  I forgot.  And, you know, beating Andre, is like  -- everything just happen.  I'm so glad that I'm playing so well. 

Q.  What did you do after the match?  Did you pray? 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Actually, I always did it.  I mean, even I lost or I win on a big stadium, or on a big court, it's like, just like a Thai culture like saying thank you for the crowd that, you know, both, full side, just like doing like this (bowing), just saying, "Thank you." 

Q.  Then you sat down and did it again? 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Yeah.  Actually, I'm Buddhist, so I kind of pray a little bit after the match.

Q.  What do you say then? 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  You know, just, you know... It's just happen.  I mean, just doing like this.  Then, you know...

Q.  There have been a lot of shocks today, leaving the draw much more open on your side. 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Well, actually...

Q.  How far do you think you can go?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Actually, I didn't look at the draw.  My first goal is, okay, this year I didn't have to qualify because last year I had to play qualifying.  I didn't qualify and got lucky loser last year and lost to Todd Martin first round in four sets.  My goal is just win the opening round.  And then after I see the draw, well, if I won the first round, I got to play Andre.  So that should be, you know, that's it for me.  Well, just have nothing to lose, go on court, just enjoy.  And, yeah...

Q.  When did you realize it's going different today?  

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Well, just after first game, after, you know, he won the toss.  He choosing to receive.  And, well, I don't want to open the match, you know, feel little bit shaky for me.  First time on Centre Court, big crowd.  After I won first game, it's just okay, little bit relaxed.  Just gonna keep my serve.  I'm serving well today.  So that's one of the key that I won today.

Q.  Did you feel that you have a lot of pressure when people are around the court to watch Agassi?  No one's calling your name. 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  No, just, you know, that's normal, because I been playing on the big court quite many time and play the top player quite many times.  So they always, you know, the crowd's always going like, "Come on," this name, this name, and that's normal.

Q.  Do you consider it a psychological game for him to choose to receive first, for you to show that you need to serve on the Centre Court first?  Is that psychologically chosen by him? 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Well, you know, he may just, you know, not ready or, you know... If I won the toss, I gonna choose receive.  I want him serving first.  First game, you not really ready yet.  You know, just let it go the first game. 

Q.  Did the defeats for Sampras and Safin earlier on give you a bit of extra confidence that you could do the same thing? 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  No, not at all.  I mean, you know, Andre is different.  I don't know.  Just happened. 

Q.  When the game finished it was two o'clock in the morning in Thailand.  Have you spoken to anybody at home to gauge the reaction?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Yeah.  Well, I call my mom after the match.  She was watching on TV.  It's live back to Thailand.  So she's really pleased.  All my family is watching on TV. 

Q.  Your father was taking pictures as the match was about to end.  He looked like he couldn't believe it either.  What did he say to you afterwards?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  You know, just like I give him a hug and he was... He can't believe this is happen.  Well, he's normally taking the video in my match.  Today he can't.  I mean he just  -- on big court, it's already on TV.  So I got to keep that tape (smiling). 

Q.  Andre was obviously disappointed.  He said he didn't have anything planned for the next two weeks because he expected to be here.  You said that you didn't really expect to be here.  Did you have anything planned for the next two weeks?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Actually, I've been on the road since Monte-Carlo.  I haven't been home yet.  So this is my number ten week in a row.  So after this I plan to go home and have two weeks off and then gonna come to States to play on hard court season.  So actually I'm planning, you know, to play first week here and then second week home.  So that's why I have three weeks off.  So now, you know, I keep winning, so I will have just two weeks off, which is fine for me. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT