US OPEN
September 2, 2005
Paradorn Srichaphan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  Can you just talk us through the match a little will bit, tell us what was working for you out there today. 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Yeah, second round match.  Last year I lost in the third round, so if I won today I would have tied, you know, like last year reaching again third round.  But to play Davydenko today, he's Top 10 player at this time.  Is kind of tough, but, you know, I was go out there and kind of enjoying the match and, you know, whatever the result gonna come, I take it both way.  But just to go out there and have, you know -- try to play well.  To play Davydenko today is I think I playing really good match, especially win it in straight set. 

Q.  How next opponent will be Davide Sanguinetti.  Do you know him?  I think you played two or three times. 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  I think I lost him two times. 

Q.  Yes, two times. 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Maybe two times.  I also lost to him in US Open the year that I qualifying.  And then I play him first round and lost him in the first round maybe three years ago.  Well, he beat Moya today. 

Q.  Yes. 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  So it's gonna be tough.  Look forward to playing.  Gonna have a day off tomorrow and just try my best again.

Q.  Are you having any problems with your foot there?  Is that a blistering situation?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Well, I always taping my foot because you never know how long you gonna go out there and how long you gonna be out there.  I was running a lot side to side.  I always protecting my feet by wrapping it.  You know, at one point, it just came off, so I have to ask for trainer to retape it.

Q.  Is it something that's ongoing for you, though, you always wrap?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Yeah, I always doing it.

Q.  Both feet?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Just on the right feet. 

Q.  Does it feel, playing on the Grandstand, do you find that to be a more intense situation with the crowd? 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  I think it's good court.  I been playing that court a lot, Grandstand.  Especially two years ago, I play there every match.  I have to practice there a lot, just warming up outside and go out at the Grandstand and feel the court pretty good, like today.  It's a great court and it's about good size and the people is packed today.  You know, it was great atmosphere to play today, to be -- I mean, to play a seeded player and the crowd always going behind you, you know, because you lower ranking maybe and, you know, I was playing well today. 

Q.  What were your expectations coming into this tournament? 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  As I see the draw, I, you know, I get to face Davydenko in the second round if I win first round, which I play today.  That is my first thought.  I mean, my first tough match, I would say, would be second round to play Davydenko.  And, you know, to win today I think is give me a lot of confidence that, you know, I still can do well like a couple years ago.  And still believe that I can make it back to Top 20. 

Q.  Did you expect this result, I mean, like, straight sets win? 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  I didn't expect to win like in three sets, but I was expect to be a tough match.  And you never know what's gonna happen because, you know, in men's tennis is really difficult.  Even the ranking is little far from each other you can still, you know playing, playing well against each other like today.  I go out there and, more like, you know, nothing to lose and just play well. 

Q.  Did you have any specific game plan coming into the match? 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Yeah.  More -- I mean, tennis this day is more like if you attacking your opponent in the right time, in the right point.  I think you get that opportunity, take that opportunity, and winning the point.  And also the physical fitness that if you strong enough, if you, you know, not getting tired, when the time you want to, I mean when the time you need to break him, then you need to give all the energy to that right time and take that chance.

Q.  These days tennis is getting more and more popular in Asia.  In this US Open this year we have a bunch of Chinese players, Korea, Japanese players in women's side.  In men's part, we have one Thai player and South Korean.  What is your take on men's tennis in Asia in the future?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Yeah, it seems like to be more women's, on the women's side from Asia and Asian player.  But on the men side is not so many, just me and maybe Lee from Korea.  I would say is not easy to make it to this level.  But, you know, I just hoping in the future they gonna have more player from Asia.  I'm pretty sure it's gonna happen, but, I mean, compare to European and American, it's nothing to compare that.  I mean, Asian, we can't make that many player from Asia, but it's gonna be a couple good one, you know, coming up.  I mean, we don't need that many, but we need quality. 

Q.  Do you feel like an ambassador of Asian tennis, and do you embrace that? 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Actually, I'm the ambassador for Thailand in the sport (laughing).  It's great to be one of the greatest player from Asia and representing Thailand is, you know, for me, I'm really proud to do it.  Also, proud for Asia that I keep doing well and keep playing at this level and, you know, just like it's not so many Asian player on the tour.  So if I can keep my level of tennis like this and hopefully be four or five or more over the next years coming up, I would love to keep playing and being in this level.  In the future, like to see more Asian player. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT