US OPEN
September 2, 2004
Paradorn Srichaphan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.


Q.  Can you talk about your match today, where you feel your game is at right now?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Yeah, I feel like I'm playing well today and moving well.  But, you know, to play Paul Goldstein, he's quite (inaudible), he's won a round, he's already played four matches.  It's a lot of confidence, but he's already play more matches than me. Yeah, he's trying hard, but, you know, I go out there and just try to play my game and, you know, and I do it pretty well in the beginning.  He fight hard in the second set, and I was up two set to love and just finish it off in the third. 

Q.  What do you think was the turning point in that match for you?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  I think it's good to be after I winning the second set, then it make it more easier.  It could go either way.  If I lost the tiebreak in the second, is to go one set all.  So, you know, the game's gonna be more difficult in the third. 

Q.  How exciting was it for you this year to have another Thai player in the men's draw with you?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Well, it's great to have another Thai player through qualifying and get into the main draw.  So it's good to have another, you know, another Thai player in the draw. 

Q.  Do you think the Chinese team winning the women's doubles at the Olympics, and the Olympics coming to Beijing in 2008, and the ATP Masters going back to Shanghai, do you think all those things will help Asian tennis?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Well, I would think so.  As soon as they have more tournaments in Asia, it's always great for the Asian tennis.  I'm really look forward to have another -- a couple more tournaments in Asia because now I think we have about five to six tournaments a year.  If Asia would have more tournaments in Asia, it's gonna be good for Asian, young Asian kids, to come to watch and to be like -- wants to play in the tournaments.

Q.  The Chinese and a number of other sports have been coming on very strong.  Do you think there's a likelihood there will be a real breakthrough or even explosion in the coming years in Chinese tennis?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Well, to win the gold medal in the Olympics is big, especially for Chinese player.  And, yeah, I'm sure -- those two girls still young, I guess.  You know, it's gonna be inspiration for other young kids in China.  Last year I been to Beijing to promoting the tournament for the China Open which is I am going to play after this.  We been to the tennis center of Beijing.  It's like a hundred of kids playing in the nice center - a lot of court, indoor, outdoor, like 50 boy, 50 girl, hitting the ball well.  You know, they're like 12 or 13 and 14.  I think, you know, a lot of them gonna break through. 

Q.  We're here in New York, a fast-moving, intense city, to say the least.  What would you say the greatest difference between the culture of Thailand, your home country, and the United States is, the single greatest difference? 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Well, the culture, of course it's different.  But, I mean, to play in New York, just like you said, is very busy city, plus a lot of things going on this week so it's kind of walk up the street, and a lot of traffic, a lot of try to get on your car to get here, you know, take about half an hour, 40 minutes.  Well, every player have to try to focus what they doing.  Just, you know, I'm trying to put, you know, my iPod and put my glasses on and put my hat on and focus on what you doing.  In the big tournaments, you saw a lot of people and you know a lot of people.  So you always stop to say hi to this people, those people.  It's always tough to say hi.  You just want to focus.

Q.  You walked right past me on Lexington Avenue. 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Is that right? 

Q.  New York is slower than Bangkok?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  I'm not sure about that.  I mean, especially this week, you know.  It's, you know, a lot of street closed, a lot of try to get to the restaurant, and sometime you have to get off the cab and then walk.  But, yeah, I haven't been home much so, you know, I don't know how busy it is.  But every time I go home, well, downtown, every city is busy, but I know the place around Bangkok so I know how to get around. 

Q.  I read you had dinner with the prime minister. 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Prime minister dinner?  I don't think I had one, yeah.  But I met the King twice. 

Q.  You met the King twice?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Yes.

Q.  Is he a good King?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Yeah, he's a great King.  Thai people love him.

Q.  Did you meet his dog?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  The dog?  Yeah, I saw a lot of them, yeah, yeah.  Yeah, he love dog, yeah.

Q.  Is there a book about them? 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Yeah. 

Q.  You had to write a story for a paper called, "The King and I," what would you say?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Well, I haven't read that book.  I didn't see the movie, so... you know...


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT