US OPEN
August 31, 2004
Paradorn Srichaphan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  Bit of a scary start. 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Yeah.  Always first round of the new tournament is always different, so, you know, even I do well in Long Island, still coming out here and play always tough the first round.  But I'm glad that I turn around and win it at the end.

Q.  Last year you came in here on a hot streak.  This year you struggled a bit.  Do you feel like you're playing well on the hard courts? 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Yeah.  I would say if I compare my result in the US summer this year and last year, I would say last year I do a bit better.  But this is the last Slam, especially on hard court.  I hopefully can doing well.  But this first round match, you know, first set was a little bit difficult because a bit windy out there today.  You know, yeah, it was great to come back and win. 

Q.  It's tough to manage the summer schedule, but you add to it the Olympics.  Talk about your experience in Athens.  It was a bit of a disappointment? 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Well, yeah, losing first round there to Johansson, Joachim Johansson, up-and-coming great player.  Disappointing losing in the first round, but it was great experience.  Yeah, didn't do well there, but come back in the US, Long Island, made the semis.  Getting a lot of confidence. 

Q.  Long Island you talked about how your ankle injury prevented from you doing a lot of conditioning work.  Did that have some bearing on your play on Saturday night out there when you lost?  How does it feel now, your conditioning? 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  Well, I took a day off on Sunday traveling from Long Island to the city.  I just take it easy on Sunday, do some workout, like 20-minute run on the track.  My physical actually is pretty good, yeah.  Day off on Sunday, practice like one hour yesterday, coming out to play first match.  The good thing is you know what time you play, the tough thing is you have to wake up early 6:30, 7:00 to get off the traffic downtown to get here, get practice.  First match is good to play. 

Q.  Long Island, a lot of players come there.  They don't want to win because they don't want to tire themselves out before coming to the US Open.  They try some serves, get in shape.  Is that a cynical view?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  That's my result, I won three tournaments before Slam, two in Long Island and one in Nottingham before Wimbledon.  I always put myself hard right before the Grand Slam.  I don't know why.  I think the reason is I just want to see what I have to play -- what I have to improve before Grand Slam.  I always put like 110%. 

Q.  A lot of big names have lost in the first round. 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  This might be the chance to win the tournament.  If a big name doesn't want to play, it's a chance for other player.  I always give myself 110% to play.  I like to keep playing, keep rolling.  If I do well, keep rolling, so I have a lot of matches on my hand.

Q.  Do you think there's a new season that begins for you these last couple years, successful in Long Island, then carrying your success over?  How important is it for you to be in top shape for the tournaments coming in Asia, Thailand?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  I think it's important.  I've been waiting all year long to play in Asia, to play in Bangkok, my hometown.  Yeah, really look forward to.  And hopefully I can do well for Asian tennis.  To play three tournaments in Asia, this is Beijing, Bangkok and Tokyo, those three tournaments in Asia.  I'm going to play all of them, then I got to play another four tournaments in Europe. 

Q.  The Chinese women won the gold in doubles at the Olympics.  What does that say to you about where Asian tennis is these days?

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  You know, it's great.  To win Olympic gold medal in tennis, especially Chinese girl won it, is kind (inaudible).  There's going to be more Asian player on the tour, men or woman.  It's a good sign.

Q.  Do you feel there's another coming wave? 

PARADORN SRICHAPHAN:  For sure.  It's great for Chinese tennis that the younger Chinese, you know, these two girl won Olympics.  Is going to be inspiration that the girl can do it, too. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT