MLB ALL-STAR GAME
July 12, 2016
Terry Collins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








American League - 4
National League - 2
THE MODERATOR: Terry Collins is here.
Q. (No microphone).
TERRY COLLINS: We sat down, and when we came in here I told Jeurys that we had the lead he was going to close the game.  But there was a chance he was not going to get in and Bartolo was going to be my back-up guy.  If we went extra innings he was going to be the guy to give us those innings.
Q. The Royals are (Indiscernible).
TERRY COLLINS: I don't know.  It's baseball.  I don't care what the name on the front of the shirt says.  Tonight certainly we had to do what they did in the World Series.  He got a big hit when they needed a big hit.  Same with Perez.  I thought it was a great game, good game.
Q. Does that speak to their talent, though?
TERRY COLLINS: Oh, yeah, you don't win the World Championship without having a good team.  They have great players, and Ned does a great job and it was a lot of fun.  We had a chance, a big chance and we were -- couple innings, we were one swing away from making it a great game.
Q. To what extent did you or could you manage this like a real game that counted?
TERRY COLLINS: Well, you do the best you can.  I tell you, I came in here with one major thing in mind and that was I wanted to make sure that, you know, every team got represented on the field.  We had a situation when we had our selection when we had six teams that needed to be represented and I wanted those -- that fan base to have somebody to cheer for.
So I did the best I could to try to get everybody in the game that represented our league, and it was still a great game and our guys, they did a nice job.
Q. Given that desire to have every team out there on the field, obviously it was circumstance you lost Syndergaard and Cespedes, but is it a little disappointing that you couldn't get one of our own guys in?
TERRY COLLINS: Yeah, a little bit.  But, you know, we had some -- we had some health issues and we knew that.  So Ces would have been a nice piece to have.  But the other guys, you know, they were available, and we had it set up to when we were going to use them, and we just didn't get to get there.  But I'm not disappointed that they didn't get in because they were going to be in big parts if they did get in.
THE MODERATOR: Thanks, Terry.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT