SONY ERICSSON OPEN
April 6, 2008
Katarina Srebotnik
Ai Sugiyama
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How do you feel right now? Is it revenge for Madrid?  
 KATARINA SREBOTNIK: Of course it's some sort of revenge, but we didn't think about Madrid match, for sure. We just played as every other match and now when it's over, yes, it's just sweet revenge, yes.   
  
  Q. After the second set, can you talk about you guys in the super tiebreaker? Generally is that something you like to go into that? You were pretty much -- no? You dominated in the tiebreaker.   
 KATARINA SREBOTNIK: Yeah.   
 AI SUGIYAMA: Yeah, I think for my side, my energy level went down in the second set a little bit. She kept me up, but I think my energy went down in second set a little bit, but we saved it for the super tiebreaker.   
 And, yeah, I think we played really good super tiebreaker. We played aggressive and powerful, and I think we dominated, uh-huh.  
 KATARINA SREBOTNIK: Next time we can just play the super tiebreaker, because every time we play super tiebreaker against them.  
  
  Q. Every time you...   
 KATARINA SREBOTNIK: We always play super tiebreaker.  
 AI SUGIYAMA: Always. So we just might as well go straight to the super tiebreaker.   
 KATARINA SREBOTNIK: Go straight to the super tiebreaker.  
  
  Q. Can you tell me how you guys got together and when?   
 AI SUGIYAMA: Exactly one year we been playing. This was the first time we played together last year.   
  
  Q. Okay.   
 AI SUGIYAMA: Yeah, but we lost first round.   
  
  Q. Big difference.   
 KATARINA SREBOTNIK: Now we won.  
 AI SUGIYAMA: Yeah, now we won, but we play already good last year. We went to the finals French and Wimbledon, so even though we didn't -- the result didn't come at the beginning, I mean, we knew that we going to play good together and just -- it's just a matter of timing.   
 We hung out on and off the court. We liked each other, so we hung out too much, maybe.   
 KATARINA SREBOTNIK: Never too much, come on.   
 AI SUGIYAMA: That's right. But, yeah, tennis-wise also, just the harmony, being on the court, share the great time together, that's the most important thing.   
 We joke around even during the match. It makes us relaxed and just -- we fit very good together.  
  
  Q. How about tactically? Tell me about each of your games, why are you good partners on the doubles team? Why is it you each compliment each other?  
 KATARINA SREBOTNIK: I play normally forehand side, she plays normally backhand side. This is the first thing we try to look for when you try to choose a partner.   
 Our level of energy is very similar. We're very energetic and we like to do the same things, you know. We are, you know, playing quick, moving quick between the points, jumping around. Very positive, both of us, good energy and we both have good sense of humor, so that helps, also, to relax, as she said.   
 You know if it's a rough time, we make whatever, some comment that we like and, you know, we relax. We just combine very good. When we play good and also when we don't play so good, we try to help each other and improve and then wait for the time when we will start playing better.   
  
  Q. And the fact you've both been on the tour quite a long time, I'm just going to say veteran players, won't say ages or whatever, but does that also help you, just having more perspective and you've been around for so long, been in so many situations on the court both of you in singles and doubles?  
 AI SUGIYAMA: Yeah.   
 KATARINA SREBOTNIK: You answer that. (laughter.)  
 AI SUGIYAMA: Yeah, we been on the tour quite a long time, and this is my 16 years, which is quite a long time.   
 But, yeah, we use the experience for that, of course. And sometimes playing both singles and doubles give us a really tough time playing two matches a day, long days.   
 But as she said, our energy level is really high, so even though we didn't do well in singles, try our best in doubles, and that makes us really feel good afterwards.   
 We just, yeah, enjoy playing singles and doubles, yeah.   
  
  Q. Did you do anything while you were in Miami? You were obviously busy with singles and doubles and everything, but did you have time to have/see anything or do anything fun?  
 AI SUGIYAMA: She did, dolphin swim.   
 KATARINA SREBOTNIK: Yeah.  
  
  Q. You did the dolphin swim?  
 AI SUGIYAMA: You did it. That was a long time ago.   
 KATARINA SREBOTNIK: Seems like ages since we arrive.  
 AI SUGIYAMA: We've been eating, driving maybe 25 minutes away from hotel. We stay in different hotel, but we been out a couple of times for dinner, long time.   
 KATARINA SREBOTNIK: So for that, definitely the highlight was the swim with the dolphins.  
  
  Q. And you go to the Japanese place I read in the booklet.   
 AI SUGIYAMA: Matsuri.  
  
  Q. In the book, on 40th Street on Bird Road?   
 KATARINA SREBOTNIK: She also made me go every night almost there, so last night we had good Japanese food. That's why we had the energy maybe.  
  
  Q. Do you like Japanese food?  
 KATARINA SREBOTNIK: I do. I love Japanese food. And when I go with them, they know, of course, which dishes are good, so I just let them choose what I eat.   
 I really trust them, and they know my taste for now already so good they can order for me and I really love it. Because if I go alone I always go for the same thing, and I like to try different dishes.  
  
  Q. Ai, what is your favorite dish at that restaurant?   
 AI SUGIYAMA: I do a lot of different things, because they have so many other things, also. I eat every day different things.  
  
  Q. You've been going there 16 years?  
 AI SUGIYAMA: No, since I'm 12.  
  
  Q. Even longer. Since like junior Orange Bowl?  
 AI SUGIYAMA: Exactly. That was the first time I've eaten there. Maybe 15 years. Oops. (laughter.)  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT