ROGERS CUP PRESENTED BY AMERICAN EXPRESS
August 19, 2007
Katarina Srebotnik
Ai Sugiyama
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  In the notes here, it says it's your first win together.  Is that like this year or career?   
 AI SUGIYAMA:  No, career-wise.  We just started to play together March this year.   
 KATARINA SREBOTNIK:  In Miami.   
 AI SUGIYAMA:  Yeah, in Miami.  And we did really well together.  And French Open was our fourth tournament, and Wimbledon was our fifth tournament.  But we did really good together.   
 And this one, this is the first title together, so it's really special for us.   
  
  Q.  Were you a little nervous before the final?  Because you reached, well, you reached two slams final.  You reached a couple of finals but never a title, so were you anxious to break that?   
 AI SUGIYAMA:  Not really.  We did play really good last night, and we finished 10:30.  So it was not so much time to get rest, actually.  We went to bed really late.   
 We were very, very excited about the match, how we played last night.  And this morning we had to start 11:30, which was a bit -- not so much in between the time we thought.   
 But with this crowd today, I mean, it was really good that we came up and could play in front of a lot of people cheering, so I wasn't nervous at all before the match.   
  
  Q.  What do you think made the difference in the match?   
 AI SUGIYAMA:  Huh?   
  
  Q.  What do you think made the difference in the match?   
 AI SUGIYAMA:  Difference today?   
  
  Q.  Yeah.   
 AI SUGIYAMA:  I think it was really a bit, I mean, first set we started very good.  And we have everything like the right way.  But in second set, they start to play aggressive and coming to the net, poach more.  And it seems like a real wall, and we couldn't really pass them.   
 But in the tiebreaker, we had a good energy, and we played, we focused every single point, which was really good.   
  
  Q.  My last question.  Is yellow the official color always?  Or it depends, you mix it up?   
 KATARINA SREBOTNIK:  No (laughing), it's just a coincidence.  But maybe we'll stick to it now, huh?   
 AI SUGIYAMA:  Yeah.   
 KATARINA SREBOTNIK:  Tell our manufacturers to keep it like that.  This is actually green, you know?  But maybe it's faded away already with a couple of washings.  But it should be green (smiling).   
  
  Q.  How big is it also to beat Huber and Black?  Because you lost to them in the Wimbledon finals, right?  This must be an incredibly satisfying win to beat the No. 1 team?   
 KATARINA SREBOTNIK:  Definitely.   
 AI SUGIYAMA:  Yeah, definitely, because we always have a tough time playing against them.  We played couple of times, but we never beat them, and it was our first win, right?   
 KATARINA SREBOTNIK:  Uh-huh.   
 AI SUGIYAMA:  Yeah, first win against them.  So it was huge for us.  And they play really good tennis this year.  They already qualified for championships, they're so ahead of the other teams.  And this win gave us a lot of confidence and also semifinal we beat Molik and Santangelo, that also is a huge match for us.   
 So, actually, there is no team that we couldn't beat for us.  So it's really good, yeah, good match for us.   
 KATARINA SREBOTNIK:  I mean, if I can say just we played three times against them, and only three times was three sets.  With tiebreak, and now super tiebreak, and Wimbledon three sets to win.  Always play very close matches to top teams.  And this is really good, you know, it gives us a lot of confidence that we can beat them on our good day.   
  
  Q.  You withdrew from the singles on Tuesday.   
 KATARINA SREBOTNIK:  Sorry?   
  
  Q.  You were ill earlier in the week on Tuesday, I think it was, And then I think you started your doubles the next day.  Was it just a case of feeling better the next day, how are you feeling now?  And how is the virus in all of this?   
 KATARINA SREBOTNIK:  No, it's completely gone by now.  I'm really happy about that.  It looked kind of more serious then.  That day was quite hot, and I really didn't feel good, and I was kind of dizzy and low energy on the court.  I was playing Peng, and she plays very fast so I couldn't really react.   
 And I don't know what really happened, to be honest.  But they said some kind of a virus, and thank God it didn't turn as bad as it could have been.   
 The next day it was just doubles, and that's much easier.  You cover half of the court, especially with a partner that I have, you know, it's easy to play (smiling).  So yeah, I'm really happy that this is over now.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT