WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2006
Ai Sugiyama
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  Q.  Ai, women from Asia have done quite well in this tournament.  Japan has a long history of some top players.  But when you see the other players from Taipei and China, do you expect this trend to continue?   
 AI SUGIYAMA:  Yeah, I think so, especially Chinese girl.  There are, I mean, so many Chinese.  Yeah, they're practicing hard and they're really disciplined.  So I think, yeah, in the future as well there are some more coming up I guess.   
  
  Q.  Are you surprised at how quickly it seems to be growing?   
 AI SUGIYAMA:  No, it's not starting like now.  I mean, it was before, they are trying to do something.  They tried to invite coach from outside or they were trying to do good for maybe Olympic or I don't know.  But they are doing like quite long time ago.   
 They're now, yeah, Li Na and Zheng Ji are coming up.  I'm not surprising at all.   
  
  Q.  Are there any coaches that you know of from Japan going to other Asian countries or any top Asian players coming to Japan to train from China or Taipei or Thailand?   
 AI SUGIYAMA:  I don't know.  I don't see much, I guess.  Yeah, but they're calling from somewhere else, not Japanese, I guess.  But, yeah, they are trying to do.  Also with the team I think it's working really good.  Like normally in Japan we have to have a coach privately or something, and it's not easy.  But with a group and like two, three players sharing the coach, two, three coaches or whatever, then that's their -- the system.  But it's been working really good, so, yeah.   
  
  Q.  You mentioned before your match with Bremond that you thought that she was good on grass.   
 AI SUGIYAMA:  Yes.   
  
  Q.  What particular aspect of her game did you struggle with today?   
 AI SUGIYAMA:  Uhm, probably serving.  She was serving really fast and good percentage of first serves.  And also she was slicing good.  So even though at the baseline I really didn't get the good rhythm, she was really slow down with the slice and hitting with from the forehand side.   
 So, for me, I was bit struggling to get my rhythm even though when I'm playing on a baseline.   
  
  Q.  And did the sun and the heat affect your game today?   
 AI SUGIYAMA:  Not at all, actually.  Sun, I prefer sun than rain.  So was good.   
  
  Q.  Will we see you back here next year?   
 AI SUGIYAMA:  Yeah, definitely.  I don't want to finish like this.   
  
  Q.  Were you surprised at how well she played the big points?   
 AI SUGIYAMA:  Yeah, I mean, I had quite good chances to getting good my rhythm.  But on the big points, she was serving aces.  And what can I do?   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT