WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2006
Ai Sugiyama
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  Q.  How does that rank in terms of your singles performances in Grand Slams?   
 AI SUGIYAMA:  Oh, it's great.  I mean, especially today, playing against someone like Martina and then on Centre Court.  Yeah, I can't expect more than that.   
  
  Q.  You were 3-Love down.  She had the momentum in the third.  How did you manage to turn it around?   
 AI SUGIYAMA:  Yeah, I didn't serve well at the beginning of the third set, so I lost my rhythm at the beginning and she was always attack my second serve, of course.  But it seems like she was also tired.  Then it was pretty humid, yeah, hot and humid.   
 We had long rallies, and she was shaking her legs.  And so maybe I got a chance if I can still hang in there.  Tried to get back -- the ball back into the court as much as I can, and then it turned around.  So it was good.   
  
  Q.  Your backhand was working really well today.   
 AI SUGIYAMA:  Yeah, yeah.  My backhand was going really well, especially up the line.   
 And then, yeah, I think I ran good today also, and I moved the court really good.  So it helped.   
  
  Q.  When you were playing so well and then things went a little bad, did you have memories of the Sharapova match?   
 AI SUGIYAMA:  Not really.  Not really, yeah.   
  
  Q.  Martina said that you don't seem to have any weaknesses.  Would you agree with her analysis?   
 AI SUGIYAMA:  Sorry?  She said...   
  
  Q.  That you don't have any weaknesses.   
 AI SUGIYAMA:  (Smiling).  Thanks.  That's a nice compliment.   
 Yeah, well, today my forehand getting better.  Normally everyone likes to attack my forehand, but today I get my good rhythm of my forehand as well.  Of course backhand is always better, but, uhm, I think, yeah, total the balance was really good today for me.   
  
  Q.  Are you confident about your next round?   
 AI SUGIYAMA:  Next one, I play against Bremond.  Yeah, she got a game, good game for grass especially.  She serves big and then she's coming to the net a lot.  Yeah, she is beating Patty also.  She's been playing really good.   
 So, yeah, of course I have confidence now, but I'll play just one match by one match.  Then everything is, yeah, different match, of course.  So I got to be ready for the next one, and I just focus everything.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT