WIMBLEDON
June 20, 2005
Ai Sugiyama
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  How well are you prepared or did you prepare into this tournament? 

AI SUGIYAMA:  Well, I play two tournaments before here, one in Birmingham, one in Eastbourne.  I tried to have a good preparation for this tournament.  Of course, this is my favorite one.  So I wanted to have a good preparation.  But I thought I could had, yeah, physically better preparation.  My lower back a little painful.  But, well, yeah. 

Q.  Is it a long-standing injury? 

AI SUGIYAMA:  No, it's just my left side a little bit painful, starting my ankle and knee and lower back, everything the left side.  It's so hard to move well when I have something sore or painful.  But, yeah, had massage treatment, and I thought should be fine, but it's bothering a little bit. 

Q.  In Japan, what number is tennis in the sports ranking?  Is it popular at all? 

AI SUGIYAMA:  In women, it's probably first or second biggest sports.  About the men's, probably baseball, soccer would be the first one. 

Q.  I came from Japan and there was no tennis at all. 

AI SUGIYAMA:  Yeah, maybe third or fourth place. 

Q.  Are you popular in Japan? 

AI SUGIYAMA:  Okay. 

Q.  Despite being in pain and your mobility not being so good, when you won the second set, did you feel you could go on?  Were you surprised she came back again?

AI SUGIYAMA:  No, she probably really confidence because of the tournament the last week.  She beat pretty good players, like Myskina or Zvonareva.  She was really happy, relaxed little bit more than I was.  I was expecting that she's going to play better.  But I think the key was in the third set, instead of making two double-fault in my service game, she made four aces when I had a breakpoint, I think that's a huge difference. 

Q.  How is your condition for the doubles? 

AI SUGIYAMA:  I mean, I have to be ready for doubles.  Yeah, I didn't have a good singles here recently also.  I just want to try to get a good chance in doubles. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT