OLYMPIC TENNIS TOURNAMENT
August 15, 2004
Ai Sugiyama
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Seemed like quite a difficult match.  Can you talk a little bit about it?  Also, with the wind, being a big nuisance.  
 
AI SUGIYAMA:  Well, yeah, it was really tough match for me today.  Well, first round is always tough.  But she was hitting the ball really deep and then really aggressive whole match.  I was kind of back up a little bit.  And it's kind of tough to enter the match.  But mentally I tried to be there and then try to be aggressive, but it just didn't go well today.  But even though she had couple of chance for serving for the match, I just tried to hang in there.  Then luckily I got through this match.  So hopefully I play better next round.  
 
Q.  About the wind?
 
AI SUGIYAMA:  About the wind, uhm, it wasn't bad as I expected.  I mean, it was not that bad.  It's just hard to get into the match.  And the heat wasn't also that bad. 
 
Q.  Have you ever played with Jie Zheng?  Can you give some comment about this Chinese player?
 
AI SUGIYAMA:  Sure, yeah, this was the second time I played her, and the first time was Fed Cup in 2003 probably.  But I think she's really great player, and she's still young.  So she's coming up.  And I think her (inaudible) is footwork and also groundstroke.  Yeah, I mean, I think we are similar type.  Yeah, she's really fight.  She fight really good.  Yeah, she's going to be better player.  
 
Q.  Can you give me some comments about Asian players.  Not many play in the Top 100.  What's your advice to Asia people?
 
AI SUGIYAMA:  Asian players?  
 
Q.  Yes. 
 
AI SUGIYAMA:  Well, I think the Chinese player practicing a lot, when I see them practice, and that's a really good thing.  And then also they start to play a lot of tournaments.  You definitely need for experience.  Jie Zheng was out of top hundred, but now she's Top 50.  She's improving a lot.  She's on the right track.  And then other Asian players also playing a lot of tournaments.  And that's the first step.  Then you play -- when you play against a better player, you know what you have to do, and that's what you have to work on.  Everybody doing the right thing, I think.  They are young.  They have some years to go, a lot of good future, I guess.  
 
Q.  Can you just explain a little bit what your thoughts are of this tournament, what it means to you, what it would mean for Japan?
 
AI SUGIYAMA:  For Japan?  Well, it's a great tournament.  It's kind of hard condition with the heat and wind and everything.  But still we very happy to be here.  It's a little different, of course, compared to the other tour tournaments.  But it's great experience, honor to be here.  And also spending some time at the village, it's a lot of fun, something that you can't really experience.  It's unusual lifestyle, but it's great experience.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT