WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2004
Ai Sugiyama
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Good evening, Ladies and Gentlemen.  Ai Sugiyama.  
 
 
Q.  You were with her all the time way for the first two sets.  What happened in the third? 
 
AI SUGIYAMA:  Well, I think -- well, even though the first and second, she was attacking me all the time, it seems like.  I tried to hang in there.  But my chances are very few.  First two sets, I just tried attack when I had a small chance.  But in the third set, I didn't have much chance, like compared to the first and second.  She's been playing really aggressive whole match.  Then, well, I tried to be aggressive.  But, I mean, her serves and return was too deep or too good.  Then it's kind of hard to be aggressive on that.  And then, well, but in the third set, my movement wasn't great compared to the first and second, I think.  Then I play a little bit down.  
 
Q.  Were you tired in the third set?
 
AI SUGIYAMA:  It was not like tired.  But she adjust the ball better.  And then she hit the serves like really good, like ace and something.  So it was really hard for me to find a chance.  
 
Q.  You covered a lot of court.  You did run a lot.  You say you didn't feel particularly tired.  But had that worn you down a certain amount?
 
AI SUGIYAMA:  Yeah, I think so, yeah.  But, yeah, I have to be aggressive a little bit more, otherwise, even though I run, run, run, then maybe get some points from making her mistake.  But, still, when I have chance, I try to come in, but I make mistakes, some approach shot or something, easy mistakes.  So that hurts.  Yeah, I have to play a little bit more aggressive if I want to...  
 
Q.  Are you satisfied to have made a quarterfinal here? 
 
AI SUGIYAMA:  Yeah, I'm very happy that this is my best result in Wimbledon.  And, yeah, I think each round I play better.  And then today I really had a chance in second set also.  It's going to be a good confidence.  Yeah, I think was good tournament.  
 
Q.  You had a chance to become only the second woman from Asia to make it to the semifinals.  Was that on your mind at any point?
 
AI SUGIYAMA:  Not at all (smiling).  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT