WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2004
Ai Sugiyama
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  English questions, please. 
 

Q.  You looked very, very happy when you won that match.
 
AI SUGIYAMA:  (Smiling). 
 

Q.  Did it mean a lot to you to get to the quarterfinals?
 
AI SUGIYAMA:  Yeah, of course.  It's best result so far.  And I went to fourth round a couple times.  But to reach quarters, which is first time this time, so I was very happy.  Yeah, especially playing against Tami, I thought if I can play my tennis, then I had a chance.  So I'm very happy to be through. 
 

Q.  You had to work very hard for the win, didn't you?
 
AI SUGIYAMA:  Yes, of course.  Yeah, she's been playing really good, especially on grass.  That's her favorite surface.  And she's doing good every time she's playing Wimbledon, so I knew it's gonna be very tough.  But just play point by point and try to fight every point. 
 

Q.  What do you think made the difference between you today?
 
AI SUGIYAMA:  Uhm... well, we have a similar game.  Play a lot of ground strokes.  But maybe I run little bit more (smiling). 
 

Q.  What do you think was the turning point?  Where did you feel that you really had her?
 
AI SUGIYAMA:  Well, actually, I was playing really point by point.  And then especially my serving, I was struggling to hold my serve.  Then I was always down.  Also, at the end, Love-40.  And came back, and she had kind of easy game for -- on her serve.  But I just never gave up.  And then even though I -- she got broke my serve, I still have to believe I can break back right away.  And then, yeah, she was leading all the time in second set.  So I was not sure when I have chance.  But I just play point by point and focus every point. 
 

Q.  Do you feel that maybe she got a little bit tight at the end?  She had a very long doubles match yesterday.
 
AI SUGIYAMA:  Yeah, I just checked the score, which was very hard, 16-14 in the third.  But I'm also playing everything - doubles and mixed.  So it's the same thing. 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT