WIMBLEDON
June 22, 2009
Ai Sugiyama
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. SUGIYAMA/P. Schnyder
  6-4, 6-4 
   
  Q. Congratulations today on your victory. How satisfying was that today? You've had a few first round defeats recently. How satisfying was it to come into Wimbledon with a tough draw and get a result like that?  
 AI SUGIYAMA: Yeah, I'm really happy, especially I haven't won for a long time in singles, and playing against Patty in the first round is tough. But grass court, she doesn't like the grass court. So I was thinking it's going to be a tough one, but if I can play my game, I think I had a chance. It was really a good way to get through.   
  
  Q. What is it about Wimbledon? You have a particularly strong record at Wimbledon for the last three or four years. What is it about Wimbledon that suits your game?   
 AI SUGIYAMA: Yeah, I like the grass, especially with my game. I like fast court, and I like the fast rhythm. So I always enjoy being here and playing here. Yeah, but as I said, I haven't performed well in singles for a long time, and I was a bit nervous at the beginning. It was good that I won today.  
  
  Q. If you don't mind me saying, 33 is not young anymore in the women's game. How do you keep your level so high, because your end-of-year ranking has always been around the 30s, 40s, so you're very consistent. How did you manage to achieve that?   
 AI SUGIYAMA: Yeah, I think my fitness level has to be very high to perform well, and that always gives me a lot of confidence. When I have confidence in my fitness, I think I can keep playing at the top level. That's kind of key, and that's what I have to do if I want to keep playing at the top level; I have to keep my fitness level up.  
  
  Q. Have you looked at the draw, and how does it look?  
 AI SUGIYAMA: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Do you think you can possibly beat your best achievement here?  
 AI SUGIYAMA: Well, I saw the draw, and I thought I played against Tamarine in the second round, but she just lost. But beating her is also tough. I've played Parra Santonja in doubles only and I've never played against her in singles, so I'll see how it goes. But I'm really looking forward to it.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT