US OPEN
August 30, 2001
Ai Sugiyama
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question for Ai, please.   
 
 
Q.  What's your reaction to the unfortunate pullout by Kim? 
 
AI SUGIYAMA:  Well, it is really disappointing that we couldn't play, but at the same time I knew that Kim has an injury.  She pulled her muscle in New Haven, so I don't want to push her too much.  She won two singles.  But she actually withdraw before she told me, so I have nothing to say but... Yeah, it was of course I wanted to play doubles so hard, especially losing my singles yesterday.  But nothing I can do.  So hope she getting better and do well in singles.  
 
Q.  Coming in, you must have known she was pretty injured.  What kind of discussion did you have with her?
 
AI SUGIYAMA:  No, she said, "It's getting better."  She said her thigh is getting better, and she said she was  -- she should be all right for the doubles.  So I was kind of hoping that we can play. But, well, as the match going, first round, second round for her, she said it's getting worse and worse.  So nothing I can say. Yeah.  
 
Q.  Do you wish that she had said something, like maybe getting a different plan in place?
 
AI SUGIYAMA:  You mean for me to look for someone?  
 
Q.  Yeah. 
 
AI SUGIYAMA:  Yeah, but it was too late already.  
 
Q.  How long have you played together? 
 
AI SUGIYAMA:  We've been playing since Wimbledon, and we did really well in Wimbledon  - we went to the final.  And we played two tournaments this summer and it was all right, yeah.  We played good.  And every time we play, it was getting better and better so I was hoping to play good doubles here, too.  Especially I won last year with Julie, so this is my lucky tournament for me so I wanted to play. But, well, unfortunately, she got injured.  So I hope that she get better.  
 
Q.  Did she say anything?  Did you discuss anything with her, maybe her pulling out of the singles? 
 
AI SUGIYAMA:  Actually, I didn't hear anything before she withdrew, so... But she couldn't find me before she withdrew.  So I didn't talk before.  But,  well, I talked after.  She had the singles match first, first match of the day.  And yeah, I just  -- well, after she withdrew, I talked to her. 
 
Q.  What did she say? 
 
AI SUGIYAMA:  She said, "It's getting a bit worse and worse." So she said she can't play.  
 
Q.  You understand, or are you frustrated? 
 
AI SUGIYAMA:  I understand, of course.  I mean, she's  -- yeah, she's nice girl, and I understand that.  But at the same time I am really disappointed that I can't play.  Because I know that we are a good team, and here is very good condition, so we have very good chance to win.  So I was looking forward to it.  But nothing I can say now. 
 
Q.  For you, since winning last year, doubles has become really a specialty of yours.  Can you just talk about the doubles game, why it's become important to you.
 
AI SUGIYAMA:  Well, first of all, I like to play doubles because I can share the joy with my partner.  And I think singles and doubles are totally different.  But I always enjoy playing with my, you know, with my partner.  Last year I was playing with Julie, and also this year I play with Nicole Arendt and also Kim Clijsters.  They're very good friends not only on the court, off the court, too. So, like, to play with a good friend is a great thing for me.  So that's why we did well. Yeah, and doubles skills helps a lot for my singles, too.  For my volleys and coming to the net, that sort of stuff.  So I enjoy playing doubles so much. 
 
Q.  Do you think Kim might pull out of the singles?
 
AI SUGIYAMA:  I don't know.  I don't think so, because that why she wanted to focus on her singles.  She withdrew from doubles.  I don't know how bad it is, but I don't know.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT