WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2008
Ai Sugiyama
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  A. KLEYBANOVA/A. Sugiyama
6-4, 6-4

 Q. How do you feel to be out in the third round? 
 AI SUGIYAMA: Yeah, obviously I'm a little bit disappointed after losing this, but I think she played really great. She served so good, and ground stroke very powerful and also attacking the ball so good. Yeah, nothing much I could do today. 
 She was serving, like warming the serve, so I was like a little tense about my serve and I've got to do better than normal. But then my presentation went down, and I was disappointed in my service game a bit. But this is how it is. 
 Yeah, I think I'm just down a bit. But it's going to be okay.

 Q. At least this tournament you broke the record for the most consecutive Grand Slams. How many more do you think you're going to do? 
 AI SUGIYAMA: Well, each Grand Slam is the bonus for me, and I'm sure I'm going to play US Open. But about the next year, I don't know yet. 
 Each year it's -- I'm not looking forward too much ahead, so I'll just try to stay positive and playing good every tournament I play and see how it goes, see how much I can play more. 

 Q. You've spoken before about the physical and the mental being very closely linked. Was it mentally more challenging today having had your service broken in the first game of each set? 
 AI SUGIYAMA: Yeah, definitely, because I knew that I have to hold my serve, but I got broken from the beginning. It was not the greatest start for me. And even though I had a couple of breakpoint chances, she's just bombing a serve ace here and there, and mentally you have to really focus every single point right there. 
 But yeah, as I said, my service wasn't great today, and to play against her I've got to serve really good and also the high percentage. So I couldn't do it today.

 Q. And you said yesterday about how it was tough having to compete, or choosing to compete in the doubles and singles. Is this something that you might consider in the future, competing in one, for example? 
 AI SUGIYAMA: No, Grand Slam always want to play like a lot of events, singles, doubles and mixed. That's really enjoyable, especially here. One year I did quarters in singles, then final in doubles and semis in mixed. So that was my best result. Sometimes I feel like when my adrenaline goes on, I don't feel any tired or anything. 
 But lately maybe I have to see what I can do. The matches are very close, and here it's very important. So I have to focus every single point, and that means probably I just focus maybe singles and doubles, not mixed. Or maybe in the future I have to think of it.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT