WIMBLEDON
June 26, 2008
Ai Sugiyama
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  A. SUGIYAMA/F. Pennetta  
7-6, 2-6, 6-2  
   
  Q. It was very different in each set. The first set you seemed quite evenly matched, and then the second set was obviously hers, and in the third set you seemed unstoppable. Where did that energy suddenly come from?  
 AI SUGIYAMA: Well, at the beginning I tried to, you know, give everything because she's a tough player and she's very consistent. She served good, ground strokes is also good, so I've got to really start really good. So that's what I was preparing for, so I was ready for it. But it was very even. I broke her first and I was serving for the set 5-3, but I couldn't hold my serve that game and then it was really tight again.   
 But luckily I got through the tiebreaker. It was really even. It could be either way.   
 But second set she raised the level, and then I probably stepped back a little bit. I was playing behind the baseline and I wasn't aggressive enough. So my ground stroke is a bit short, and she was always dominating in second set, so I tried to step in the court.   
 And also I was a little bit tense at the second set so my body turn wasn't really great. So I tried to work on that, then it went my way in the third set.   
  
  Q. And in a game like that where it's very mixed, is it easy for you to see where your faults are and how to move forward into the next match in the tournament?   
 AI SUGIYAMA: Yeah, because I could solve the problem during the match. You know, sometimes even though I don't get the good rhythm, I don't know why and what makes it good, or sometimes I cannot find my rhythm at all.   
 But today when I missed the ball or when I'm not moving great, I know why it's happening there, and I could fix it right away. And that's why I could pull it through in the third set, I think.   
 I think it was a good match for me, and I'm really looking forward to playing third round.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT