THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
May 25, 2000
Gabriel Hjerstedt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 GABRIEL HJERSTEDT: It was funny. Yesterday, I was in -- I went out and played
yesterday, I played terrible. So, you know we did a little bit of work on the range
yesterday afternoon and just got back into the rhythm. And I was a little unsure how it
was going to go this morning. You know, I was thinking a lot about some of the bad shots I
hit yesterday. So, you know I was just happy to get off to a decent start, you know,
playing with Greg is always nice. I mean, he's such a professional on the golf course. I
think it rubs off into you as a player; so I really enjoyed that. 
 
 GABRIEL HJERSTEDT: I had a 4-iron on No. 4. Made a 20-footer on the next. Probably a
20-footer on the hole after that for birdie. In the weather conditions, you know, you get
it on the green and the greens are so beautiful that if you make a good stroke, you'll
hole it. And the par 3, I probably hit it to 15 feet there. 10, just misclub. Second shot
just didn't hit enough club, and the bunker shot and bogey. 15, actually almost holed out
my wedge. Actually had to lay it up short, which I've never done before playing around
here, but hit it 2 feet and a half, and made that one. And coming down 17, I had a good
drive and a wedge to maybe 9 feet. Made that. 18, I just misjudged the wind. It was coming
off the right and left it out to the right of the green. Had almost -- I was actually
lucky hit a great chip out of the thick rough, and one more roll and I would have been 40
yards short of the green.  
 
Q. Why are you wearing those type shoes?
 
 GABRIEL HJERSTEDT: I had a groin problem earlier in the year. Pulled my groin pretty
bad. So they have actually helped me walk. That's what I was having trouble, walking
around the course.  
 
Q. Do you think you'll continue to wear those, because you don't see pros wearing those
kind of shoes.
 
 GABRIEL HJERSTEDT: They are comfortable. If they can just get me a black pair, I'll be
okay, but I think I have to win a major before --. 
 
Q. If you win the Open in those, you would probably increase their sales tremendously.
 
 GABRIEL HJERSTEDT: (Smiles.) 
 
Q. How tough is this course playing, especially compared to other years?
 
 GABRIEL HJERSTEDT: It's just the length factor. I carry the ball, so it's not a huge
difference. But when the fairways are soft, like Greg was saying, it's a little bit more
forgiving off the tee, and more than it would be like if it was running into the rough
like it can do. Off the tee, I think it's definitely easier, but it's playing a little
longer. 
 
Q. When you say you misclubbed on 10, are you shocked when it comes into the bunker?
 
 GABRIEL HJERSTEDT: I was a little greedy on that shot. I was actually trying to play it
left of the flag, because I had a 7-iron out of the bunker. And I thought if I hit
6(-iron), I might hit it all the way up the back and have a long putt. I was just in
between clubs. 12 was playing really tough today. Greg hit it over the green with a
7-iron. Olin Browne got his 8-iron over the green. I was stuck with my 7-iron and hit it
on the green. So it's just swirling.  
 
Q. Who speaks a purer dialect of Australian, you or Greg?
 
 GABRIEL HJERSTEDT: I think Greg.  
 
Q. Have you ever had a chance to play -- have you ever been paired with Jack?
 
 GABRIEL HJERSTEDT: No. He'd be fun to play with. I've love to watch him around the golf
course playing, with the way he thinks. I think Norman has got a lot of that in him, too.
Obviously, he's a little bit more aggressive, but you can just see their mind always --
always going, you know, always thinking things through properly. As a young player, it's
great to be around. Really, you can see the leverage -- the plateau they have.  
 
Q. After what you've been through in your career health-wise, is something like a groin
is that like just a little inconvenience?
 
 GABRIEL HJERSTEDT: No. It was -- well, it's always a big inconvenience, you know,
especially in golf when you've got to walk. But I think if I would have been in another
sport and had the same injury, I probably would have been out for a long time. I've just
had a lot of time off. Maybe a played a little bit more than what I should, but it's not
so physical, golf. If it was on my left side, it would have been worse.  
 
Q. I was just wondering if you ever thought about playing on the European Tour to make
-- to have a chance at the Ryder Cup at all?
 
 GABRIEL HJERSTEDT: No. You know, that's a tough one. I mean, I looked at it last year.
I was close to winning Westchester, and it would have been interesting to see what really
would have happened if you won twice over here in a Ryder Cup year. But I like it over
here. I don't think I'm going to go over and try to play 10 events or whatever it is to --
for something like that. I mean, I've got to look after my own interests. For me, until I
get to that level where I can maybe play both Tours -- I'm not at that level right now. So
maybe in the future I might think about doing it but not for the next few years.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT