MLB WORLD SERIES: YANKEES v DIAMONDBACKS
November 1, 2001
Chuck Knoblauch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Did you think there would be a play at the plate, and what was your viewpoint?
 
CHUCK KNOBLAUCH:   I wasn't real sure.  I had no  -- I just picked Willy up and I knew he was waiving me in.  I had my head focused on home plate.  You could feel the ball coming.  I think I took a little peek to see the throw, and I thought it was going to be close if he came up with it. 
 
Q.  Going to bat you had never seen this guy before, and you just  -- were you looking for one pitch somewhere? 
 
CHUCK KNOBLAUCH:   Lopez?  Yeah, I've faced him plenty of times, yeah, when he was with the Indians and this year with the Devil Rays.  He's a pitcher that comes right at you and I was looking to get at it right away. 
 
Q.  Have you ever been involved in a pair of comebacks like this at any level of baseball?
 
CHUCK KNOBLAUCH:   I don't think anybody has.  Obviously, unbelievable games; we're basically being totally dominated by the Diamondbacks pitching staff, and to wait until the 27th out with two, two-run home runs on consecutive nights is pretty amazing with one out to go in the last at-bat.  
 
Q.  You sat there for eight hours of baseball the last two nights; how eager or how anxious, how  -- what was your mood getting the chance to come in to the plate?
 
CHUCK KNOBLAUCH:   Well, you stay ready, for sure, as the innings wear on, you go to the clubhouse and run around a little bit and stretch and I did the same thing both nights.  I almost got a pinch-hit last night, late in the game.  But you just have to stay ready.  I know every team does a great job at it, but the guys that we have on the bench, they are always ready and Joe knows that.  He doesn't have to worry about giving guys a big warning because everybody is ready.  I mean, you just try to stay in the game mentally by watching it, watching some at-bats on TV, and seeing what the pitcher has got going if you have to pinch-hit.  But mainly, just staying in it mentally and being stretched out and physically ready as well.  
 
Q.  With Game 6 and game 7 coming up and Johnson and Schilling, did you feel this was a must-game to win? 
 
CHUCK KNOBLAUCH:   I think every game is a must-game to win in the World Series, especially if you fall down 0-2 like we did out there, and to come up big and win three games at home is exactly what we needed.  You know, you can't go into Game 6 thinking that you have a game 7.  That's a must-win as well, too.  This team does a great job of turning the page and focusing on the next game and I think everybody will enjoy tonight's game or these last three games and we'll get on the plane tomorrow and head to Arizona, I think everybody will be focused on Game 6.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT