AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: MARINERS v YANKEES
October 17, 2000
Derek Jeter
Chuck Knoblauch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.   Two questions, guys:  First, do you appreciate how much of a struggle it has been just to get to this point, and what is the one personality trait in Joe Torre that you admire the most? 
 
DEREK JETER:  Well, obviously, winning isn't easy.  I've said it before.  We made it look easy the past few years.  But every team you play, every year they are going to improve; they are going to be that much more hungry.  And as bad as we've been, so to speak, we're still in a good position to make our way to the World Series.  So you're able to appreciate how difficult it is and this year had that's been more gratifying to this point, but we are still not where we want to be. 
 
CHUCK KNOBLAUCH:   I don't know if it's his personality, but his communication skills with each individual player is his biggest asset, because he knows when to say the right thing at the right time to the right people.  And just knowing that you can talk to him, he's the man and he'll tell you how he feels, and also, he's been where we've been and what we're going through. 
 

Q.  Derek, are you ever able to say, I'm 26 and I've been to the post-season every year, and have a level of appreciation for how many people never get here and how much you've gotten here already at such a young age? 
 
DEREK JETER:  Well, most definitely.  You realize that this isn't something that you can take for granted, because it's very difficult to win.  I've been fortunate to be at the right place at the right time and play for some great teams, some teams that are filled with a lot of veterans ever since my first year.  So I don't take it for granted at all.  It is something that you have to enjoy while you're in that situation because you never know if you're going to have an opportunity to come back. 
 

Q.  Whenever players struggle on the Yankees and some of them have gone through prolonged slumps, whether it be Paul or David Cone or yourself defensively, Joe somehow finds a way to go back to his guys, the guys that produced the three championships.  What does that say to you about Joe Torre? 
 
CHUCK KNOBLAUCH:   Well, very professional and very confident in his players.  And as he's said many times, he tries to go with the guys that got him here.   It is comforting as a player, playing for him, because you know that he has confidence in you.  You know that he's going to be behind you and support you, and try to help you out.  He certainly has done that with me, many, many times.  It's just a part of what makes him who he is and why we respect him so much. 
 

Q.  When you look back on the 15 men left on base, is that a case of knowing that you have three games to do it, or a case of trying to close it out right there?
 
DEREK JETER:  It is a case where a pitcher made a good pitch at a good time.  That's the bottom line.  You've got to tip your hat to him sometimes.   You're not at the plate with runners on base saying, "Well, if we don't do it today we have two games or three more games to do it."  You try to get it on.  You have to play it like it is Game  7.  They got you out.  At key moments of the game they are going to make pitches to you and if not, you are going to need to capitalize on it in the situation.  
 

Q.  How would you describe the nature of the team in an era when nobody repeats, in any sport, really, that the Yankees have been able to do this? 
 
DEREK JETER:  Well, I think the core has been pretty much the same since the first year.  We know we've added guys.  Chuck came in 1998 and we've added Clemens and things like that.  But it starts with the manager.  Mr.  Torre drives the bus, so to speak.  And he is very good at motivating people and motivating his players and keeping them focused.  You know we just want to win.  That's the bottom line.  I think a lot of times people may become content with one championship or a little bit of success, but we don't really reflect what we've done in the past.  We focus on the present. 
 

Q.  Did you guys watch the Mets clinching last night and what was your reaction to that? 
 
CHUCK KNOBLAUCH:   I watched a little bit of it.  I turned back and forth between the Mets game and the Monday Night Football game.   Congratulations to them.  They played well.  Obviously, they deserve to be where they are today, because they beat some good teams, and it's good for them.  
 
DEREK JETER:  Yes, I was out eating.  I watched the first five or six innings.  It was basically over with from the start the way Hampton was pitching.  But they have a great team.  We've played them during the regular season, and I've said all along, I felt as though they had a team that could get to the World Series, but they had to go out and do it.  And they battled and they played well, and the talk always seems to be the Subway Series, and no one really wanted to comment on it but now you ask anyone in our clubhouse or anyone in Seattle's clubhouse, we want to play the Mets because they have already punched their ticket to the World Series. 
 

Q.  You have played over there in interleague play.  Explain the difference between Yankee fans and Mets fans and which is a tougher place to play? 
 
CHUCK KNOBLAUCH:   Well, it's always difficult to play on the road so I think it would be equally as difficult for us being there and vice versa.  It's always tough to play on the road.  There's some easier places to play, but we could go play anywhere in New York and it would be tough to play if you're on the road. 
 

Q.  What is it like to hit against Sasaki, who is the greatest relief pitcher in the history of Japanese baseball? 
 
DEREK JETER:  I've only faced him one time.  I faced him for the first time in the last game and I only saw two pitches.  Obviously, he's had a lot of success.  He has saved so many games for their team and with the game on the line, they bring him in.  So I can't really comment on him, because, like I said, I've only seen two pitches. 
 

Q.  But you respect what he's done this year, his first year in the Major Leagues? 
 
DEREK JETER:  Oh, yeah, first year, 10th year, 15th year, it doesn't make a difference.  He's had a lot of success. 
 

Q.  With everything you've gone through this year, injuries, problems with Mr.  Steinbrenner, how have you coped?  And if you play the Mets in the World Series, do you look forward to playing in the field at Shea? 
 
CHUCK KNOBLAUCH:   This year has been very difficult, and you just deal with it.   Things happen, and you move on.  Injuries happen, and I haven't had to deal with that very much, but this year, I did.  With playing defense at Shea, yeah, I've played many, many games at second, and I'm no dummy.  This has worked out well for us, being able to DH and also being able to play second.  If we do win and we get to the World Series, it's too bad that we both can't be out there because he's done a great job.  But yeah, I welcome it.   I always want to play second and I'll continue to want to do that.  
 

Q.  Can you talk more about what Luis Sojo's return has meant to the team off the field, as well as on the field, and the fact that Alex Rodriguez replaced him in Seattle; is that an extra incentive in this series?
 
CHUCK KNOBLAUCH:   I don't know anything about him playing in Seattle, but I just know him as a teammate.  Like he said and you guys have heard before, he's felt like he never left.  He was a key guy when he was here.  To be able to do what Sojo can do, not playing for a week or two weeks and come in and look like he's been playing for two months straight, that's amazing.  That's a gift that he has.  Off the field, he stirs things up, makes guys smile, keeps it loose.  You have a good time with him off the field in the clubhouse.  With all of the additions we've made, he certainly has been, I guess, one of the most key up to this point. 
 

Q.  Is there something appreciable about El Duque in the post-season that is different than in the regular season, something that you guys can spot? 
 
DEREK JETER:  Well, he's had a lot of success, obviously, pitching in the post-season.  First thing is he has good stuff.  I mean, he's tough to hit.  I haven't faced him, but playing behind him and looking at all of the angles and pitches that he throws, he can do so many thing.  I know from talking to some of the hitters on the opposing hitters, get to go second base, they don't enjoy facing him.  But he's fearless.  He's not afraid to fail.  He goes out there and if you beat him, he'll tip your hat, but he's got a lot of confidence. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT