MLB WORLD SERIES: YANKEES v BRAVES
October 26, 1999
Chuck Knoblauch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You were hitting the ball well all day, you were just solid on the ball all day
today, even in the end in the -- your throwing situation, even came into play, you had a
great day all around. Was there any feeling that you were going to have a good game, a
special game tonight?

CHUCK KNOBLAUCH: I know I had a great batting practice facing our left-handed batting
practice pitcher Charlie Wonsowicz. I tried to lock in against him because Glavine has
such great control of the outside corner and a great changeup. And I carried my BP over
into the game. It's funny, you don't do that every day, but tonight I did and I felt great
at the plate and it was a good night all around. I mean you work hard in batting practice
and, you know, both defensively and offensively and it turned out good tonight.

Q. Bobby Cox said your home run was a Yankee Stadium home run fly ball that wouldn't
have got out in any other stadium. What's your reaction to that?

CHUCK KNOBLAUCH: I'm glad I hit it in Yankee Stadium.

Q. Last year you did this against the Padres, Donnie Wall, you hit a home run, tied the
game again. Is there any sort of pattern to this, good luck?

CHUCK KNOBLAUCH: I hope it continues tomorrow if it's a pattern. I don't know. That
situation of course you're not trying to hit a home run, you're trying to make solid
contact. As I mentioned, Glavine has great control outside and he'll sneak one in on you
every once in a while, and I was able to just stay on it, keep my shoulder on it and put a
good swing on it. It went far enough.

Q. There are some criticisms of you earlier in the season that you were trying hard to
go deep, not hitting too many balls, striking out. Do you feel those criticisms were valid
and do you feel like you silenced those critics?

CHUCK KNOBLAUCH: I never walk up to the plate trying to hit a home run. I try to put a
good swing on it and hopefully hit something solid. I think more of the criticism was last
year because I hit so many fly balls. But this year, I felt I was back to my normal swing
that I've always had.

Q. Chuck and Chad, if you want, when the score is 5-1 and Glavine is cruising along and
settled in and pitching a terrific game, what was the thought process in the dugout, and
your way of going about getting back in the game?

CHUCK KNOBLAUCH: Every time Joe Torre takes a guy out of the game when we're losing, he
tells the pitcher coming in, "hold him right here and get yourself a win."
That's something positive that he says all the time, and Derek and I almost every inning
were talking, we hold them at five runs, keep them right here and they don't score
anymore, we're going to come back and win this thing. That's the way you have to think.
It's not cockiness, it's just a great deal of confidence in the guys that we have on our
team, and, you know, we were hoping to come back and tonight we did.

Q. Chuck, how much do you think all the talk about the defense, what you can do
offensively and how much has the whole thing bothered you? (Inaudible)

CHUCK KNOBLAUCH: I think enough has been said about it and I think it needs to be put
to bed. I can't control what people want to say or say about me. All I can control is
going out, working hard every day, and focusing on the game and each and every play. And,
you know, tonight was a good night, and, you know, hopefully there will be better nights.

Q. What did you think when you saw Jordan going up? It looked like he had it and he
didn't.

CHUCK KNOBLAUCH: I was hoping it was going to get further in the seats, but I know
Jordan's a tremendous athlete and a great outfielder. I was hoping -- I didn't realize
till somebody told me I had the bat in my hand. I was hoping it would get up far enough,
luckily it bounced the right way.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT