AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: INDIANS v YANKEES
October 8, 1998
Chuck Knoblauch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Chuck, have you seen video replays since last night and do you have any second
thoughts on the play?

CHUCK KNOBLAUCH: Yeah, we got into town last night, I got a chance to see it and for
the first time and definitely gave me a different feel for it. You know, I screwed up. I
screwed up the play, and I feel terrible about that. You know, I should have went and got
the ball, regardless of what the outcome of the umpire's call was. I basically screwed up
the play and feel bad for that and I need to apologize to my teammates and my manager and
the Yankees and all the Yankee fans. Bottom line, I screwed up that play.

Q. Did a lot of teammates come to you and say anything after the game?

CHUCK KNOBLAUCH: No, just asked if I was all right and showed what great teammates they
were. In a moment like that, you need some support sometimes and it was nice to have guys
come up and have Mr. Steinbrenner come up and talk to me and basically tell me to keep my
chin up and that's all I can do.

Q. You don't have to be sitting up here right now. What compelled you to come up?

CHUCK KNOBLAUCH: Well, there will be good times and bad times and you've got to face
the facts one way or the other and that's just the guy I'm trying to be.

Q. What were your emotions when you heard the fans' reactions and went to the plate in
the 12th inning. Can you now understand what they were feeling and what they were
expressing?

CHUCK KNOBLAUCH: After seeing the replay, seeing it from a -- from their perspective,
they were booing me screwing up the play and you can't fault them for that and they're
going to react to what they see and, you know, I screwed it up.

Q. David Cone had a similar play several years ago. Has he talked to you since it
happened about his experience?

CHUCK KNOBLAUCH: No, he didn't say anything to me about it. 

Q. Chuck, are you worried about what's to be the start of a long career in New York and
this is what you're going to be remembered for?

CHUCK KNOBLAUCH: Well, if I never play another game, this will be what I'll be
remembered for. But hopefully we can wipe that out tomorrow. Hopefully it will be a long
career in New York and hopefully a lot of good times. You know, in the game of baseball
and in life there is ups and downs and it's just a matter of how you recover from them.

Q. Chuck, two part question: First of all, do you feel you were treated too harshly?
All the headlines today, some of the cruel headlines. And secondly: Do you think your
success in Minnesota prepared you in any way for all of the difficulties -- playing in New
York?

CHUCK KNOBLAUCH: First off, my career in Minnesota really just gave me experience in
the Major Leagues, seven years of experience. With the headlines, I haven't seen them and
don't plan to. I screwed up a play and it cost us the game. When you do something like
that, that's the treatment you're going to get.

Q. You mentioned seeing the replay when you got into Cleveland last night. Was that
something you sought out on TV, or was it something you just happened to catch as you were
flipping the dial?

CHUCK KNOBLAUCH: No, I turned it on, I was watching the Braves and Padres game and
after that I saw it on baseball tonight on ESPN. So it was something that I wanted to see.
I didn't get a chance to see it immediately following the game. I was just looking to see
it.

Q. Chuck, in looking at the replay, what is your view of the umpire's decision and any
thoughts that might be different from what you thought at the time?

CHUCK KNOBLAUCH: I don't have any different thoughts. You know, I just, in my mind, the
bottom line is I didn't go get the ball, I should have got the ball, regardless of what
happened. That's basically what I should have done.

Q. Chuck, struggling at the plate too begin with, a little bit, do you think this thing
is going to put the hugest gorilla on your back?

CHUCK KNOBLAUCH: I don't think so. Speaking about my at-bats first, I had five
and-a-half out of six quality at-bats, probably the best at-bats I've had all year in
terms of hitting the ball hard consistently and just didn't get anything to show for it.
As far as a gorilla on my back, I'm facing the facts right now and just like life, like I
said, the game of baseball, you have to move on and at some point put it behind you. When
I go out there tomorrow and when I leave this room, there won't be any added pressure on
me.

Q. Was it only the video that is making you -- now say after reviewing the video to say
that you messed up the play and if so what is it specifically that you saw; is there
something you didn't realize you did until watching the video? 

CHUCK KNOBLAUCH: I had a pretty good feeling when a guy scores from first, that should
never happen on a play like that. But to see it on TV, you can see where the ball goes,
which I didn't know where it went. You can see it and it just seems like almost on TV,
almost like time stands still. And the ball is rolling behind me. So, I mean, it just gave
me a different perspective. I mean, when the play's actually happening, it's a little bit
different than afterwards or on the outside looking in.

Q. Just to clarify, Chuck: Last night you said you were shocked that Fryman wasn't
called out on the play and today it seems as though you may be feeling otherwise?

CHUCK KNOBLAUCH: No, I don't feel otherwise. With the way it happened and some of the
replays I've seen and some comments by Jim Evans saying it could have gone either way, I
still believe there is a chance he could have been called out. Again, that's a moot point
and basically it falls on my shoulders that I screwed it up.

Q. Did you get any kind of damage control advice from the Yankees PR people or players
or even your agent or did you just decide, hey, I want to come in here?

CHUCK KNOBLAUCH: I didn't get any damage control. I mean, this is coming from me and
sitting in my room last night and seeing the replay and replaying the play over in my head
hundreds of times and, you know, really I didn't really get a chance to talk to too many
people. But that's it.

Q. Good of you to come in and we thank you?

CHUCK KNOBLAUCH: Thank you.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT