THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 9, 2014
John Huh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I guess it ended well for you on 17.   Take us through the two practice putting strokes and calling a rules official.   Tell us what you saw out there.   
JOHN HUH:   Well, I took a really close practice stroke by the ball, and it kind of touched with the side of my putter, hit the ball‑‑  
   
 Q.   First time you're talking about?   It happened twice?  
JOHN HUH:   No, just happened once.   And I don't think the ball moved, so I told rules official if he can check it out, if it moved or not, and it turns out it didn't move.  
   
 Q.   But it did oscillate just a little bit?   You saw that one?  
JOHN HUH:   Yeah, yeah, that's pretty much it, because normally I put the ball, my mark up, so the ball‑‑ the mark didn't really move, so I just told myself it didn't move.  
   
 Q.   So the mark was always facing‑‑  
JOHN HUH:   Yeah, it was facing way up.  
   
 Q.   It's a little circle, right?  
JOHN HUH:   Yeah, little circle.  
   
 Q.   And I guess that's the best possible scenario for playing that hole.   You hit a great third shot?  
JOHN HUH:   Yeah, I got away with a bogey there even though I had water in my first shot, and that's what it is on 17, you know.   
   
 Q.   Have you ever had that happen to you before?  
JOHN HUH:   No, no.   
   
 Q.   Is one of the things‑‑ obviously you haven't seen the replay and everything, but very close up, and you can barely see it, is camera work and high def so good nowadays that it catches things that the naked eye finds it difficult to see?  
JOHN HUH:   Well, if they did call it that the ball moved, then I can't really do anything about it.   But I believe that the ball didn't move.   If the rules official told me that the ball moved, then I'd get penalized.   That's all I can do.  
   
 Q.   But I guess a good result?  
JOHN HUH:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the day in general.   Do you feel like you left a little bit out there or are you pretty satisfied right now?  
JOHN HUH:   Well, I went up to 6‑under and shot 3 a way, so I felt like I left a few shots there, but I'm moving to the weekend, so I'm looking forward to the next two days.  
   
 Q.   Was the breeze kicking up this morning more than yesterday morning?  
JOHN HUH:   I think so.   Yeah, this place always blows pretty hard in the afternoon, so we were expecting a little wind in the afternoon.  
   
 Q.   Is it firming up?  
JOHN HUH:   A little bit.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT