OHL CLASSIC AT MAYAKOBA
November 12, 2013
John Huh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Excited to be here.   Going to be exciting week.   Sitting here with defending champion, John Huh.   Going to talk to him for a little bit.  
John, if you can just open us up with some opening remarks, please.   
JOHN HUH:   Obviously it's been a while for me to come back here.   Normally only takes a year to come back.   Turns out I have to wait 21 months ago.   So really excited and honored to be here as defending champion and I look forward playing good golf.  
THE MODERATOR:   We were talking on the way here, it's a gorgeous golf course.   We were out there.   It's beautiful.   How are you feeling as you went through the golf course roaring that historical moment last year with the very long playoff.  
JOHN HUH:   Well, obviously I have a good memory on that golf course hopefully to bring that memory back and play well this week.   This golf course has a beautiful view and beautifully laid out.   Look forward to play good golf with good players this week.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions.   
   
 Q.   How does it feel to be 31st in rankings with so many pro golfers in the world who are pretty darn good?   
JOHN HUH:   Well, obviously it's good to be in that spot right now at 23 years old.   You know, this just the beginning of the my career, and I look forward to put myself in more contention and closer than top 30.   
   
 Q.   After the finals of the FedExCup, a lot of the top 50 players have been playing in the Middle East and Far East, and had probably made commitments a year ago which kept them from participating in this tournament.   However, with the increase in the purse, the invitation to the Masters, and the 500 FedExCup and Ryder Cup points, do you think that next year we'll be drawing even more top 50 players to this particular tournament?   
JOHN HUH:   Obviously this year they weren't able to come here and play because they have already commitments to go to the Middle East, European.   
But personally I think you'll see more top players coming here starting next year because the field is going to get bigger and the purse just got bigger.  
And as you mentioned, if win the tournament you can play the Masters.   They get the full points for FedEx.   I definitely think that will bring more players the following year.   
   
 Q.   Do you promote this golf course in particular that Greg Norman designed?  
JOHN HUH:   Well, I had great success on Mr.Greg Norman's golf course.   You know, I had a win here and a second finish at the San Antonio Open.   
I think he designed the golf course really fairly.   If you keep your ball fairway and green, you give yourself a good chance.   So I think you will see a lot of players come out here and play good golf.   
   
 Q.   Give us an update on where you feel your game is.   Do you feel like you're close to something?   
JOHN HUH:   You know, I think I'm in pretty good shape right now.   I had two weeks off and I feel like I am refreshed, recharged.   So I'm ready to play one more week.   
It will be good to have another win as my last event of 2013 season.   
   
 Q.   Being a champion, what is your strategy this year going into this tournament?   
JOHN HUH:   It will be a same, you know, same as playing another tournament.   Just give myself a good chance every single hole if possibly I can and really enjoy the moment I'm there.   
Yeah, I mean, I think it's been success on PGA Tour.   Trying to really enjoy myself on the road and inside the ropes.  
Hopefully this week will be the one week I can really enjoy.   And really look forward to teeing it up on Thursday.   
   
 Q.   Last year's tournament had such an emotional finish.   How are you prepared for something like that to happen again?  
JOHN HUH:   Obviously last year was a little more than I expected having an 8‑hole playoff and having my first career win in my fifth start.  
I'm in a little different situation.   This is my pretty much third year on the PGA Tour, and I think I can handle better than last year.   So if I'm in that situation again, I would love to finish on the first hole.   
   
 Q.   Are you excited to be the first twice‑champion of this tournament?  
JOHN HUH:   Yeah, that's what I'm here for.   That's why I practice hard to get ready for this event.   Really look forward to make another history.   I made an 8‑hole playoff history.   It would be nice to have another history making in OHL Classic.   
   
 Q.   One of the problems that has always been associated with this particular golf course is the way the wind comes in off the water.   It kind of forces the players to depend more on accuracy than length off the tee and lower rather than higher shots to avoid that wind.   How do you rate your own accuracy and how do you rate the standards of accuracy among some of your colleagues to be able to play this particular golf course with relatively decent scores over four rounds?   
JOHN HUH:   Well, I kind of give the example, you know, my ball flies a little higher than a normal player, I mean, average on tour.   I proved that that was wrong, but obviously you got to keep your ball on the fairway.  
If you're not it's pretty much you're in the hazard, so...  
I mean, it's difficult to play with the wind, but we're in the PGA Tour, highest on the tour, and I don't think there is any issue playing this golf course because of the wind.   
If it blows more than 30 miles, yeah, it is difficult.   But if it is just a normal wind, you know, I don't see players shooting a really low score because there are‑‑ the players are capable to shoot low score.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you very much, John.   We'll close the press conference right now.   Best of luck this week, and it was great talking to you.   
JOHN HUH:   Thank you.   Thank you, guys.   Thanks for having me.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT