WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2013
John Huh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MARK STEVENS:   I'd like to welcome John Huh.   
John, you had a share of the lead going into the final round.   It's your first on Tour.   If you kind of want to talk about your thoughts going into tomorrow and then we'll have some questions.  
JOHN HUH:   Well, I don't know.   It's my first time.   Pretty much going into the final be first place, co-leader so it's a little different feeling and I'm in a different position as last year when I had great year and a win.  
But, you know, this is what we're playing for.   That's why you want to put yourself into this spot and that's why you spend tons of time out there practicing, you know.   So, I'm really looking forward to it and it's going to be good golf.   That's it pretty much.  
MARK STEVENS:   The conditions today, obviously difficult.   Kind of talk about how you and your caddy go through that today.  
JOHN HUH:   After I saw we had some delay, I told my caddy it's going to be a long day and I told myself be patient, you know, because it's going to be a long day and stay dry and we put that thing pretty good out there today for the 3rd round.  
   
 Q.   John, usually in the final round at a lot of tournaments there's a few guys.   Tomorrow it can come from anywhere.   It may not even be in the same group.   
Is it a different mindset going into the final round when it's all bunched up like that?  
JOHN HUH:   Well, obviously, you know, we don't have any -- I'm sorry, obviously we don't have that many stroke lead.   I'm the co-leader and it's a wonderful golf course.   If you pull a good shot you're going to get rewarded.   Hopefully, I'll be the one to get rewarded and pull good shots out there.  
   
 Q.   John, the second hole obviously didn't go as you probably wanted it to go.   What was your feeling after that?   Did you have to regroup or --  
JOHN HUH:   Yeah.   It was pretty rough start for me, you know, because the second hole you don't want to start like a triple and -- but, you know, I pulled my second shot a little bit and put myself in the wrong spot and instead of taking medicine I get too greedy and it turns out I make a triple there.   
Tomorrow -- probably say today was a pretty good learning day for -- as my second year.  
   
 Q.   You talked about being patient early.   That test your patience more than anytime else on the course?   
JOHN HUH:   I think so.   Probably today was the longest day I think I ever felt on the golf course especially make that triple on that hole but I was able to hang in there and get everything together and here I am tied for the lead.  
   
 Q.   When you said you were too greedy on the third shot, what did you do, which club did you play?  
JOHN HUH:   I had about 15 yards to the pin and left to right and I had used a 58 and I think it land pretty much where I wanted to but it took off pretty hard than I wanted to.   
So, it just turns out went off the green and that's what happened over there on that hole.  
   
 Q.   And how long did it take you to get your mind back together where you thought I'm still in the tournament?   Was it immediate or did it take a hole or two?  
JOHN HUH:   Well, after that happened over there on the 2nd hole we had 3rd hole was a par 3 and I pulled a pretty good shot and I wasn't able to convert it but, you know, I told myself, there's pretty much -- we got 15 holes to go and there's another 18 to go tomorrow so it's going to be long day.   So, that's what I tell myself there, it's going to be long day and be patient out there.  
MARK STEVENS:   Any last questions?   Thanks for your time John.  
JOHN HUH:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT