HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 17, 2013
John Huh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   John, the ball traveled too far for you on the second shot on 18, but can't take away from a great round, 64?   
JOHN HUH:   Overall I was hitting well and I was able to convert, so I'm pleased with the way I played today and hopefully I can do that in the next two days.   
   
 Q.   Only missed two greens, happy with your ball striking today?   
JOHN HUH:   I've been hitting balls pretty good, and I think I've been hitting okay and today was the day I could make some putts and it turned out pretty good.   
   
 Q.   You knew you had to go low because of the conditions favoring yesterday, but as we made the turn on the back nine the wind picked up.   How different was the golf course trying to finish?   
JOHN HUH:   I took advantage of the morning wave, but after the 9th hole it turns out there was a little breeze out there so playing was a little tougher than the morning, but still we're on the best TOUR in the world so you have to take it.   
   
 Q.   Good luck this weekend.   
JOHN HUH:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   8 birdies on the day, part of a Friday 64, how satisfied are you with your efforts?  
JOHN HUH:   64 is not too bad right now.   
I drove the ball beautifully and made some putts so I'm pleased with the way I played today.   
   
 Q.   No top‑10 finishes this year, you had a great rookie year, you're playing well this year.   What's been the hardest part trying to back up a great start out here?   
JOHN HUH:   It's hard to compare because I had such a great year last year so it's hard to get overcome with it, but, you know, it's another year and it's my sophomore year on the PGA TOUR.   
   
 Q.   Two rounds, what are your plans for the weekend?   How excited are you to be in the mix?   
JOHN HUH:   Really excited because I have not been able to be in this position for a while.   I'm going to try to enjoy myself out there and make some putts.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about your 8‑birdie round?   Just your general thoughts.   
JOHN HUH:   Overall I hit the ball beautifully today.   I was able to convert the one I hit really good, and I'm pleased with the way I played today.   
   
 Q.   Were you scratching your head after your round?   That 18 could have been good for another‑‑  
JOHN HUH:   Yeah, I didn't expect my second shot to go over the green because it was a strong wind and I didn't expect to hit it that far with my 4‑iron and it turns out it was a little long but overall it's good.   
   
 Q.   Did you feel good out there?   
JOHN HUH:   I was hitting ball really well, even last week, but I wasn't able to putt well.   
I would say overall I did things really well, especially putting.   I'm looking forward to tomorrow and the next day.   
  
 Q. Thanks, John.     
   
  
  
 
 
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT