MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 14, 2013
John Huh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   That eagle on 15.   Talk about that one.   
JOHN HUH:   Well, I had a really awkward lie, but I just pulled the trigger and it turned out past the pin and I gave myself a really good chance.   So I putted and it worked out pretty good.  
   
 Q.   You were on the fringe?  
JOHN HUH:   Yeah, I was on the little bit of fringe over there in the back of the green.   
   
 Q.   Kind of sum up the experience.   Right now you're T‑9 if things stayed the same right now you would be in the top 12 to come back for next year.   
JOHN HUH:   Well that was my goal actually before I teed up today, trying to come back here next year if I could.   And I think that I did what I came to do.   We'll just see what the outcome is.   
   
 Q.   The whole experience of the week, what's it been like, now that it's all said and done?  
JOHN HUH:   Well, it was a really good experience for me.   Playing at this golf course and knowing this golf course and playing in a big field.   It really means a lot to me.   Hopefully I can come back and play well next year.  
   
 Q.   Why do you think it is you did so well?   First timer here to finish like you did?  
JOHN HUH:   Well, I was striking the ball really good all the way and just wasn't able to put the ball in the hole as early as I can.   So I think that's why I played well yesterday and if I did good on Friday I think I would have been in a better position, I believe.   
   
 Q.   What do you do you leave here having learned that's going to help you the next time you're back here?  
JOHN HUH:   Well, I think that I put myself in a really good spot every single shot I can possibly.   I think I can use that as good course management at other courses throughout the year and hopefully do that throughout the year.   
   
 Q.   Jason Day said the other day he feels like every shot out there feels like the biggest shot of your life.   Did you get a little bit of a sense of that?  
JOHN HUH:   Oh, I felt it pretty much starting on the back nine.   Because I knew I had to come up with a good number.   But I had a really bad double on 11 and then kind of was disappointed, but I got back on number 15, so I'm really pleased with the way I played today and look forward to playing next year.  
   
 Q.   You heard about the pressure of the back nine, did you feel you put yourself a little bit there?  
JOHN HUH:   Yeah, well, I knew where I was and I knew that I got to post a good number to be inside the top 12.   I felt really pressure on No. 16, starting the 16th.   I knew I made a hole‑in‑one in the practice round, but I made a double on Friday.   
So I want to put myself in a really good spot, but I hit a mediocre shot and made a bogey, but overall it was a good round.   
   
 Q.   What was the one thing that is really your biggest takeaway from your week here?   What really stands out to you from this week?  
JOHN HUH:   Probably going to say the course management.   I haven't really done that much good throughout the year, but I think that I did really well this week just to make sure that I commit to it and pull the trigger.  
   
 Q.   What was your coolest moment?  
JOHN HUH:   Probably the 15th that I made the eagle, so I can get some crystal from Augusta.   That's what I'm really looking forward to receiving from them.   
   
 Q.   How did you know about that?   This is your first time, had you heard about that from somebody?  
JOHN HUH:   I heard about it during a practice round.   They told me, every time you eagle you get crystal.   So that's what I was looking forward to.   Actually I had two chances today, but I only made one.  
   
 Q.   Where?  
JOHN HUH:   On number 13 I had it about seven feet, eight feet.   I missed the eagle putt.   But I'll take the 15th eagle though.   
   
 Q.   From last night did you end up watching the video you were talking about?  
JOHN HUH:   No, I actually did not.   
   
 Q.   I was going to say see if any of that helped you today.   
JOHN HUH:   No, I didn't take a chance, no.   
   
 Q.   It worked out October.   
JOHN HUH:   Yeah, it was okay.   
   
 Q.   Do you think you'll pinch yourself any time, like maybe next week or as you stop and think about what you've done this week?  
JOHN HUH:   Well, I'm taking two weeks off after this.   So I'm pretty sure I'm going to have a good memory for two weeks and hopefully I can take all the positive stuff from what I did this week to the next tournament.   
   
 Q.   How much does it mean to know that you're already in here next year?  
JOHN HUH:   Well, it's not over yet.   
   
 Q.   But if you make it, how much will it mean to you?  
JOHN HUH:   Well, there's a couple ways you can get in this event, but that's pretty special way to get in this event, because you finish well in the previous year and playing the next year.   So I really look forward to playing next year if I could.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT