MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2013
John Huh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Your overall impressions of the first round here?   
JOHN HUH:   Well, it's great to start the first round like this.   Really looking forward to three days.   
I think I drove the ball really great and just didn't really hit the ball as well as I wanted to.   I was really pleased with the way I played today, though.  
   
 Q.   Your first competitive round here at Augusta, how did the preparation match up with the reality?   
JOHN HUH:   Well, it was a little different than when we do a practice round.   The speed of the greens was a little different, a little firmer, a little faster.   I was trying to do my best preparation for my first round, and I think I did really well, and hopefully I can do this the next three rounds.  
   
 Q.   What was the most unexpected thing you encountered during your first round?   
JOHN HUH:   The pin positions.   I didn't really expect that they were going to put the pins like that, especially in the first round.   But I think I did pretty well overall.  
   
 Q.   How did you find the atmosphere, and the crowd and the noise?   
JOHN HUH:   Well, it wasn't really too loud.   They really respect the players, and every time we come up to the ball, they'd be really‑‑ they respect the players.   I didn't really have any problem with the crowd.   I really enjoyed the big crowd.   
   
 Q.   How did you feel on the first tee physically?   Were you shaking?  
JOHN HUH:   No, not at all.   It was just like a normal tournament, and I hit a great shot and just didn't really‑‑ not a great second shot.  
   
 Q.   Where did your tee shot go?  
JOHN HUH:   It went down the middle, right in the center.  
   
 Q.   Did you get some distance on it?   
JOHN HUH:   Well, I hit 9‑iron the first hole, so it wasn't really too bad, I believe.  
   
 Q.   You said your feelings on the first tee compared to your past tournaments?  
JOHN HUH:   It was the same for me.   It didn't really feel different at all.  
   
 Q.   Was that something you had to keep telling yourself or is that just the way you are at any tournament?  
JOHN HUH:   I think that's the way I am.   I think all the tournaments I play at so far, and hopefully I can do this and have a nice day.  
   
 Q.   What will you take from today and use for tomorrow?  
JOHN HUH:   Well, obviously my speed has to be good on the green and just keep my ball in the fairway, keep it on the green and hit a lot of greens and give myself a good chance.  
   
 Q.   What about the second shot on the first hole?   
JOHN HUH:   Well, I had a really great shot and it just went a little longer than I thought, and that was it pretty much.   It went past the pin, so I had a really tricky putt and made a bogey.   It wasn't a really great start.  
   
 Q.   Did making bogey rattle you or did you recover pretty quickly?   
JOHN HUH:   Well, I knew that bogey was kind of bad, but I had 17 holes left, so I told myself we had a lot of holes left, and I think I did really well.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT