CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2008
Lorie Kane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 LORIE KANE: Yeah. Well, it's good and bad. The good part was obviously raising $1 million, or helping to be a part of raising a $1 million for CHEO, with the Miracle Match at the end.   
 The downside is that I just didn't have my putter hot enough when it needed to be. I think I hit the ball quite well to the greens the first two days for sure. Maybe a little scrappy over the last two days, but I think I scored better the last twos days than I did the first.   
 Nothing would make me happier or prouder than to win the CN Canadian Women's Open, and I still think that it can be a goal of mine, and definitely will be something I'll be working towards. And Priddis, next year, that golf course sets my eye already, so I'm looking forward to it already.  
  
  Q. Is this the most frustrating tournament you play or the best tournament?  
 LORIE KANE: I think it's the best tournament I play. I'm not treated like this every week, and I think I've gotten an idea how it is this week for Annika, Lorena, Paula, and Natalie, the big hitters if I can say that, on our tour.   
 They get unbelievable attention everywhere we go. You know, I know I get good fan support, but not like this. This is just unbelievable. To walk up -- to start off Thursday with the applause on the first hole, and then end it as it did today, it just -- there's really not words to be able to really truly express how thankful I am for all the support I get.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 LORIE KANE: Well, I don't know that there's any prouder Canadian than me. I'm an islander at heart, but I'm a true Canadian deep down. If gives me great -- I feel a great pride to be able to do that and share this great country in our national's capital today. The fans had flags everywhere, and I just issue wish that my flag was about this much bigger, because that would have showed how much I really cared about how they were treating me.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 LORIE KANE: Absolutely. You know, this golf course particularly I think is a great, great test of golf today, and it has been over the last four rounds. You know, I do commend the RCGA and our field staff. It is a good staff. It's an Open championship and a major setup for sure. No doubt.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 LORIE KANE: Yeah, I did. You know, it seemed I would make a birdie and then I'd make a bogey. I couldn't really get on a momentum at all this week.   
 But, again, I feel that I'm encouraged by what I'm seeing on the golf course, and I'm going to take all the fan support I had this week and take it to the next tournament. I'll be getting myself in the winner's circle soon.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT