CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2008
Lorie Kane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Was putting the story of the day?
 LORIE KANE: I made a couple birdies today. I still had an awful lot of chances and still just not letting it loose. I had a good chat with my dad, who taught me the game, last night, and Danny, and this morning I thought I'd get off to a little bit better start but was still a little bit tentative. 
 You know, I'm encouraged because I did see a couple of putts roll to where I was hitting them, and that's the key to getting them on line. There were some really tricky pins out there and you couldn't be overly aggressive. But again, I hit it good, so cross my fingers I get to come out tomorrow and give it another shot because I know I've got a couple of low rounds in me and can have a good finish.

 Q. The first few holes, is that frustrating, the first four or five holes?
 LORIE KANE: It is. What we try to do is build momentum, and you hit it in close the first few holes like I did yesterday, and again today, and not be loose with the putter, then it can get you tight. 
 But I played nine pars, and I had some good chances, made a great save on 14 before we came back to this side of the course, and then felt I had some other chances coming in. 18 I hit a good pitch, and it just seemed like I didn't have anything that was a straight look at the hole. The one long putt I made, I played it dead straight. Maybe I should do that a little more often.

 Q. How long was that putt?
 LORIE KANE: I'd say that was probably 25 feet maybe.  
 Q. And that gave you some momentum?
 LORIE KANE: Exactly. My 17th hole, I just made a bad swing. Coming in I gave myself a good chance on No. 9, and with that false front I had wedge yardage but I couldn't -- a little bit into the wind and uphill I had to hit one more, and we played what we call the Kingsmill shot, which is a little bit of a gripped 9, a high cut. The greens are firm, so it's going to release a little bit.

 Q. What's the pressure been like on you? 
 LORIE KANE: You know, that's a good question because we're under pressure every time we come home to play. My answer is I love it. To have all these people following you and supporting you and telling you that they love you and that they're behind you, that can't make anybody feel any better than it makes me. It gives me -- you know, they don't care. They care enough to want me to play well, but if it doesn't go well, then it doesn't change their opinion of me, which really means a lot. 
 You know, I said this week I was just going to come out and play golf, and nobody wants to win more than I do. It's going to come soon. I know, I'm not giving up. I'm going to keep working hard, and like I said, once I get a chance to come out tomorrow to play, I'm going to go with it and I'll have some fun. 

 Q. When you're coming down there, you have a rough idea, whether it's 2- or 3-over or whatever the cut may be, do you try as much as you can because you know you need birdies or --
 LORIE KANE: No, I had a number in mind today I wanted to be under par. I wanted to be back to even par. At even par for the tournament then I was going to be able to give it a run tomorrow and the next day. That's how I look at it. 
 I'm not here to make cuts anymore, I'm here to win golf tournaments. That's just the way that is.  
 Q. (Question regarding Lorena Ochoa.)
 LORIE KANE: Well, Lorena is playing with an awful lot of confidence, and again, like I said yesterday, she's got a great imagination and she rolls the putter probably better than anybody I've ever seen. She's got a funny little stroke, but it gets the job done. She's on top of the game. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT