LONGS DRUGS CHALLENGE
October 6, 2007
Lorie Kane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Thank you for joining us today.  You had a great putt on 18 to put yourself into second place to trail leader Suzann Pettersen by one stroke going into tomorrow's round.  What's going through your head right now? 
 LORIE KANE:  Well, it's just really exciting.  It was a lot of fun playing today.  You know, to be paired with Webby, she's just one of the best that we have, and however she struggled, she was still really encouraging of my game.  You know, she's a good person to play with. 
 You know, I'd be lying if I didn't say I was a little nervous getting started, but it was good nerves.  All of the butterflies were flying in sequence, and I got off to a good start and birdied the first hole, and then made a good save on the second for par.  I just kind of settled in. 
 And other than the rather long wait we had on 16, I had some good momentum and made some good clutch putts when I needed to and I thought I should have had the birdie on 16 for sure.  That ball was halfway in the hole and didn't fall.  Overall, though, it's been a good day. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  I believe you are possibly the only player to have three straight rounds in the 60s.  On a course that so many people are finding challenging, what is suiting your game about Blackhawk Country Club? 
 LORIE KANE:  I don't know.  That's a good question, and I'll just pat myself on the back.  No, you know what, this has been a long time coming.  Like I said the last couple of days, it's just a matter of getting out of my own way and I'm really having a lot of fun playing. 
 The putter I'm putting with is something that I'm very comfortable with, and I see the line very well as a result, and I'm making some putts, where a couple of months ago I wasn't and that was kind of the downer.  And now it's all fun and games, and to have three rounds in the 60s is pretty good. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Let's go over your birdies, starting on No. 1. 
 LORIE KANE:  I hit 8-iron to four feet. 
 5, I went for the green.  I had a small chip just above the hole and chipped it just past the hole about three feet, lob-wedge. 
 8, I drove it in the rough with a 7-iron into the back fringe and 3-putted from the back fringe.  My first putt was probably 25 feet, 30 feet.  And then my par putt was probably about eight feet. 
 11, the par 5, I had 75 to the hole and I hit my lob-wedge quite a bit short of that, and probably had a 15-footer and was kind of happy when that one went down. 
 14, 8-iron to ten feet. 
 15, I hit 80 yards with sand wedge to -- I was just below the hole, maybe eight feet. 
 18, I hit 8-iron, which was probably too much club into the green, but I would rather be on the ground than swimming.  I'm sure the putt was 50 feet.  I mean, I don't know how long -- the depth of that green was pretty big and I covered almost all of it. 

 Q.  You talked yesterday about keeping the momentum going and after the bogey on 8, you came back and birdied 11; had to feel good at that point? 
 LORIE KANE:  Absolutely, for sure, and that's what it's about.  I think you can really -- if you let a mistake compound with another mistake, then you're in trouble.  And for whatever reason the last couple of weeks, I've been able to not have that happen and to keep the momentum going in my way. 
 On No. 10, I hit it just short of the green and chipped past the hole and that was straight downhill, very vast green.  And then, made a 10-footer for par, which was another opportunity to keep things moving in my direction, keep the train on the tracks. 

 Q.  When is the last time you were in the final group, and how important is it to you that putt put you in the final group? 
 LORIE KANE:  I don't know the last time I was in the final group.  It's been a long time.  I'm glad I can have another crack at playing in the final group. 
 Today it was a little nerve-wracking.  I did sleep very well, and I know I'll sleep very well tonight because I'll have nothing to lose.  You know, I've won four times out here.  I've had a lot of success.  I'm crawling my way back to where I want to be and I'm just going to enjoy the time. 

 Q.  What does it say that you and Juli Inkster are both in your 40s and are at the top of the leaderboard? 
 LORIE KANE:  Well, it's just a number, and I can't believe I'm in my 40s.  (Giggling) 
 I was so late in turning pro and coming out here that when I look at Paula and Morgan and all of the other young girls, I don't feel any older than they are.  I just have a few more years of experience. 
 You know, I said it on the 18th yesterday, I said, "Some day, I want to grow up and be just like Juli."  She is a great mom and awesome wife, I'm sure to, Brian, and one hell of a golfer, and you can never count Juli out.  If we can do it at 40, then I think that's a positive. 

 Q.  One of the things that Juli talked about with Beth Daniel is that you become more secure about who you are at a certain stage in life, and that that's a real advantage in golf. 
 LORIE KANE:  I totally agree and I probably -- that probably puts the nail right on the head as far as how I see my last couple of years.  I think I've been trying to prove something to somebody, and there really hasn't -- there isn't any need for it.  It's like, you know, I have won out here.  It took me a long time to win my first one.  But not having won in such a long time, I think I was getting down on myself and you just don't need to do that. 
 It's just being patient and being right on. 

 Q.  Have you played with Suzann before and how often, and what type of player is she?  She had a pretty good crowd today. 
 LORIE KANE:  Absolutely.  Yes, I have played quite a bit with Suzann and I enjoy it.  She's a very aggressive young player who, you know, her two wins this year, speak volumes for the type of player she's turning into. 
 You know, she's a great champion and it will be a lot of fun to watch her, because she hits the ball hard and she's very aggressive.  It will be fun tomorrow. 

 Q.  Considering that they are 1 and 2 this year, Lorena and Suzann, how big of an underdog do you feel tomorrow?  Do you feel like one? 
 LORIE KANE:  You know, I don't mind being the chaser.  Like I said, I have nothing to lose.  I can go out there and play well, and win, or I can play okay and not win.  As long as I'm happy with -- as long as I don't leave anything on the golf course, I'll be pleased. 
 You know, again, I'll say this.  Our depth of our tour is awesome and where the game is going; and to see Lorena and Suzann and those types of players, I think it's good for us.  And if I have to be the underdog, then I don't mind being the spoiler, either. 

 Q.  Lorena started out in front of you with three straight birdies; did that make the nerves go away or increase them, and what do you do some someone in front of you starts out red-hot? 
 LORIE KANE:  Well you expect the world No. 1 to start out red-hot and it doesn't surprise any of us to do what she does.  And Webby said on 16 when she hit her tee shot long and left of the green and pitched over, I'm not quite sure how far she had, and I heard Webby say, "She's going to make this," and she did, and that's the way it is.  Lorena is having one awesome year and you expect that from her. 
 So, you know, I just started off hoping that -- and not hoping.  My plan was just to go out and play my own game and to see what happens and to make birdies.  And you know, it worked out all right. 

 Q.  Can you talk about the wait on 16, a half-hour wait and also sticking it five feet from the cup? 
 LORIE KANE:  Yeah, it's unfortunate, the wait.  I'm not surprised it happened.  I know the front nine, we ended up waiting a lot, and I think it had a lot to do with the par 5s are reachable today. 
 You know, when you get backed up, I'm sure Karrie was a little bit frustrated to be waiting because she made a bogey on the hole previous.  I made the birdie, so I'm a little bit -- and I made two in a row.  So I'm a little bit more, thinking, okay, let's not wait too long because I don't want to kill the momentum here, and let's try to get in before dark.  So, it's unfortunate, but it sometimes happens. 
 I need to go make a few putts before dark.  Thanks, guys, really, a lot. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT