CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2007
Lorie Kane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  What do you think you'll have to do tomorrow?   
 LORIE KANE:  Make a few more putts and keep it out of the water.  You can't make -- double bogey on the 10th hole, I'm 3-over par on the par 5s.  If you keep that up and even make 5s, I'm probably around even par.   
 I'm pleased with the way I'm hitting it, particularly finishing.  Those holes got pretty tough today with the wind picking up, and I swung probably the best the last -- I made a couple bad swings and it cost me a big number.  That's kind of been the case for a while, but I'm looking forward to getting out tomorrow, do a little practice today, and I don't think I'm out of it and I'll get us back into it tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  Where did you hit the water?   
 LORIE KANE:  10th hole.   
  
  Q.  Off the tee?   
 LORIE KANE:  Off the tee.   
  
  Q.  How did the course play today?   
 LORIE KANE:  The course played pretty good.  It's definitely rolling out in some areas.  It didn't yesterday.  The greens are a little soft, and they're going to get bumpy as the week goes on.  You know, these greens are tough.  6-under today Laura Diaz I saw shot, and that's a good round.  She either had to have hit it close or made some bombs because the pins weren't real accessible.  You know, you just had to have good speed.   
  
  Q.  Is there a big difference between playing in the morning and teeing off in the afternoon?   
 LORIE KANE:  Well, in a four-round tournament, we get the luxury of having both a morning and an afternoon.  It's always nice to get out on a Thursday morning, but I like early-late.  I'll see what I have to do, and I'll get a good night's sleep, get a about breakfast and be ready to go tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  A lot of the women seem to be having difficulty on the greens.  They're getting the putts real close but they just can't get them to fall?   
 LORIE KANE:  Well, the speed -- they're slopy, and like you just saw Karrie putt on 18, she's above the hole, and if you're going to try to make it, there's a real good chance you're going to be three or four feet by.  And that's going downhill.   
 And then coming uphill, you're kind of against the -- I wouldn't say the grain, more the nap of the grass, and it's a little bit slower, and you don't want to knock it by the hole.  That's the ultimate speed is 17 inches past, and it's tough on the uphillers.  I thought I hit that one past the cup, and I didn't, it was short.   
  
  Q.  Does the fan attraction ever hinder your game?  I'm sure you're used to it by now, but everywhere you go in Canada, people want to see how you're doing and they follow your every move.   
 LORIE KANE:  No.  The day that the fans start to bother me is the day that I should retire.  I love the fact that we get to come to Canada.  We're playing for $2.5 million thanks to CN, and we need more fans out here.  So all of those people that are sitting at home, get up off your feet and come out and walk the golf course.  It's good exercise, and you'll see some awesome golf.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT