CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2006
Lorie Kane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DANA GROSS RHODE:  Thank you for coming in.  You've had a great tournament.  You have got to be happy with your scores.  Talk about the tournament so far and all the support that your fans are showing for you.
LORIE KANE:  27 good holes.  The back nine wasn't probably the way I would have liked to have finished.  I hit some good golf shots, don't get me wrong, but I didn't capitalize on some chances that I had.  I didn't seem to read the greens on the back side as well as I did yesterday.

I thought that the pace of the greens would get a little bit quicker later in the day.  I knew they would be bumpy, but they seemed to slow down.  And unfortunately, to end with a bogey on 18, that doesn't sit well.  I'm looking forward to going and hitting a few balls, make a few putts, and then go home and get some dinner.
Q.  How excited were you to make that streak of birdies on the front nine, particularly walking off the 9th green?
LORIE KANE:  Very excited.  But like I was telling you, I'm trying to stay in the process here.  I just want to make more birdies, and I know that's out there.  I didn't hit a very good drive on 10, but I did give myself a good chance for birdie.  And that's where it kind of started.

The greens got a little sticky on the following hole.  I had an inside what should have been a very makable birdie, but I hit a poor putt.  So you know it's there.  It definitely is there.

And then to go back to 18, I saw a shape that Danny didn't see, and Danny, he let me go and as a result I didn't pull off the shot.  But I still give myself a pat on the back for trying.

But yes, the first nine, that first hole is one of the toughest holes of golf I've ever played, especially with the pin where it was.  And I don't drive it up on the hill when you're into the wind and I have a 4 iron into that green.  I kind of joked that I knew I could hold that side of the green, so I think the pin will be there tomorrow; if not tomorrow, then Sunday, so I'm ready for it.
Q.  Yesterday you were speaking about momentum and getting it going.  On 6, just before you made your approach to the green, you kind of backed off that shot a couple of times, hit it close, made a birdie, and went on your run.  Was that a momentum shifting shot?
LORIE KANE:  Definitely, that's a builder for sure.  Those holes are tough.  And I had just bogeyed the 5th hole.  You know what, it's a demanding    there are some really demanding holes out there that you need to hit tee shots and you need to hit the irons in the right place and you need to have the right number.  So I was pretty pumped that I    and I'm trying to, in my preshot routine, if I don't feel right, to start it all over again.  There's one person I've learned that from, and that's Mike Weir.  He does it very well.  If he's not ready to go, he doesn't pull the trigger.  He steps out of it and starts again.  I did that a couple of times today.  The old Lorie probably wouldn't have done that.  I would have been over the shot and the shot would have been gone.  And then I would have been looking at Danny saying, "I wasn't ready to hit it."  A lot of exciting things are happening I look forward to the weekend.
Q.  During the round, did you let your mind wander a little bit at all that, I can taste it, I can smell it, one behind?  Do you think at all about
LORIE KANE:  Way too early in the game for that.  I'm sticking with the process.  And the process is the shot that I've got to hit right now, accept where it is and then carry on for the next one.

There's still such a long way to go in this event that I am not going to get ahead of myself, nor am I going to let anybody get me ahead of myself.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT