BMO FINANCIAL GROUP CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN
July 15, 2005
Lorie Kane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  How do you feel about plus two after two days?
LORIE KANE:  Well, my overall feeling is that I'm not happy being over par, but I'm fortunate or hopeful that I can play the weekend and get back into this.  I think I'm one good solid round away from it.

I'm hitting the ball the way I want to, I'm putting myself in the right places, now we just have to spend some time trying to figure out a better way to putt.
Q.  Did you actually switch out there today, cross handed?
LORIE KANE:  I have been changing back and forth since Atlanta, Nancy Lopez's tournament Chick Fil A.  I tend to putt cross handed on inside 10 feet, and anything outside of that I'll putt conventional.  Today I did putt more conventional than I did cross handed.

I'll be honest with you .  I'm just trying to get the ball in the hole and trying to get some consistency and pace.  I know I have the line; I'm just a little bit off on the pace.  The cross handed helps on the short putts, keeps the blade a little bit square for me.  Today to go back to conventional, back and forth, didn't really matter.
Q.  How disappointing is it not being in the hunt after two days?
LORIE KANE:  Well, it is disappointing.  Like I say, I'm not giving up.  I have the same game plan I'm going to have:  I'm going to go tomorrow and fire at the pins and try to make some birdies, you know, see what happens with the weather.  I don't think I'm out of it.
Q.  Are you going right to the putting green?
LORIE KANE:  We'll have some lunch and then I'll go putt, spend some time.  This putting green is a little bit    you can't really practice a whole lot on it (laughter).  No, the golf course is great.  I have to commend Mike, the superintendent.  I'm staying in a house very close to the clubhouse.  That storm that came through last night scared the crap out of me.  I thought this golf course is going to be unbelievably wet.  So whatever he did with his crew, it was very playable today.
Q.  You were worried teeing off early?
LORIE KANE:  Yeah.  The wind last night, early this morning, it was probably between 3:30 and 5:00, I said if this wind is like this, the course may not be playable.  The tree in the backyard I thought was coming down.

I was pleasantly surprised at how dry the golf course really was.  I had a lot of mud on my ball, and it affected some shots, but not unplayable.
Q.  How was the pressure out there?
LORIE KANE:  Well, you know, a couple years ago had you asked me that question, I probably would have answered, "It changes my routine."  It is pressure, but I love it now.  I've come to realize that playing in front of your fans, there's nothing like it.  For an athlete, that's what we work for.

Sportsfans, and you guys, need stories to write about.  I like to be able to perform in front of a crowd.  Particularly to be here with the number of people that are following me, it's really an awesome feeling.  I don't know that I can really tell you in words how it feels.
Q.  The ovation you got...
LORIE KANE:  That was pretty good.  That's what golf is all about (laughter).
Q.  (Question regarding caddie's input.)
LORIE KANE:  It's off and on.  There's times where he just lets me go or I let myself go, but then there's times, and this is probably the case, if I question anything, I'll bring him in.  A couple of times you saw him line me up.  That's just to assure that I am going where I'm supposed to be, then I can freely roll the ball.
Q.  Can he always tell from looking at you?
LORIE KANE:  Yeah.
Q.  He knows?
LORIE KANE:  He does know.  He's a very good player.  He can sense that.
Q.  (Indiscernible.)
LORIE KANE:  I know if there's 26 of us, that's 26 more chances than we had a few years ago.  I'm going to go and give it all I got the next two days.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT