CHICK-FIL-A CHARITY CHAMPIONSHIP
April 30, 2004
Lorie Kane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Thanks for coming in and joining us.  9-under, you're tied with Aree Song for the lead.  Give us your thoughts on the day, we'll go from there.
LORIE KANE:  Well, first of all, we dodged some rain.  I thought we were going to have lots of that today.  That was a bonus.

Pretty basic round of golf.  I started -- the Back 9 was my Front 9 or First 9, I should say.  I had some chances early on.  Made a good birdie on 16, then followed it with a bogey on 17.  Birdied 18, then left a few on the Front 9.

Again, a real solid day of hitting the ball, staying very patient.

THE MODERATOR:  Questions.
Q.  What part of your game was the key for you today?
LORIE KANE:  Today I would say I drove the ball very well.  Overall, both days I hit it very solid.  But like I said yesterday, I'm most impressed with myself that I'm hitting every shot one shot at a time, and I'm really not thinking about much more.  That still is probably the thing that's worked the best for me over the last couple of days.
Q.  So you're managing your game real well right now?
LORIE KANE:  Managing it very well.
Q.  Sometimes the way people talk, when people are at their most boring, they play their best.  An imaginative person might not play well.  Do you have to have blinders on to play well?
LORIE KANE:  I'm not that way.  I take in everything that's going on around me, the people who are following me.  At Eagle's Landing, there's some really beautiful home.  I spend a lot of time looking at the houses, seeing what kind of window dressings they have because I'm in the process of trying to figure out if I want to put blinds or drapes on my house.  So I spend time away from the shot until I get to the shot.

But I think you may be right in the less you think about it, the better.  Just stand up and hit it (laughter).
Q.  The way this course is scoring, names are moving all over the board, do you expect it's going to be a pretty wild weekend?
LORIE KANE:  First of all, I think it's going to depend on how Mother Nature treats us overnight and into tomorrow.  I don't know how much water the fairways can take.  I think the greens are rolling really nicely.  If you get it anywhere on the green, you can give yourself some good looks at it.  I don't foresee that changing, even with some water.  I think, you know, a few on the Front 9 are quite firm, so that might help those.

You know, I still think this golf course, for whatever reason, because it's not easy by any stretch, you have to hit good golf shots to make birdies.  We seem to be making our few.  I'm looking forward to the weekend.

THE MODERATOR:  Do you want to take us over the score card.
LORIE KANE:  16, I hit 5-iron to 15 feet.

Like I said, I bogeyed 17.  I hit it in the left fairway bunker off the tee.  Just was able to advance it probably within 60 yards of the green.  Unfortunately, I missed an 8-footer for par.

On 18, I hit 5-iron to the front edge of the green and 2-putted from probably 20 feet.

No. 5, I hit 9-iron to 15 feet.

On the 6th hole, I fit 4-wood onto the green, 28 feet for eagle, tapped in for bird.

8, I hit 8-iron to 12 feet.

That's basically it.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
LORIE KANE:  We may play the 19th hole in a short time (laughter).

No. 9, I had a very realistic chance there.  I probably had just outside 15 feet.  I just didn't hit it solid enough.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
LORIE KANE:  No.  I'm playing very good golf.  I have been playing very good golf.  I said to you yesterday that I've been getting in my own way.  I'm just not going to do that anymore.  If a good score comes out of me, then that's great.  If it doesn't happen, it's not the end of the world.

I think I have put a little bit too much pressure on myself for no reason.  The game is there.  I just need to be the way I am right now on the golf course.  You know, we strive every day to try to get in that last group so we can challenge ourselves to try to win golf tournaments.  It's really a lot of fun when you get there.  So I'm just enjoying it.
Q.  I'm intrigued you're looking at window dressings between shots.  Everybody is so focused.  How are you able to focus on other things like that?
LORIE KANE:  Well, it's just me.  I was never one that -- I remember when I won my first tournament, my caddie Danny told me that I needed to make sure that day that I talked to everybody like I normally did instead of closing up and trying to be in that zone.  There's several ways of being in the zone, and I know that I've been there.  My way is to take in everything that's going on around me and enjoy myself.

So that's just how I do it.  I mean, I don't think I'm textbook by any stretch (laughter).
Q.  (Inaudible)?
LORIE KANE:  I believe it's going to be plantation shutters I think is what they call them (laughter).

THE MODERATOR:  Thank you.
LORIE KANE:  Guys, thank you very much.  We appreciate all you do for us.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT