LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 24, 2003
Lorie Kane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Can you tell us about your round today and playing in the conditions?
LORIE KANE: Well, I think we were very lucky that we didn't get drenched like some of my fellow players earlier this morning.  The conditions were soft, so it was definitely very scorable out there.  I took advantage on the front side but didn't do so well on the back side.  I putted 10, missed a couple of drives and really didn't give myself too many chances until the finishing holes, and, you know, 13, 14  -- 13, bogeyed, 14, I had good chances right around the hole, and just left a few out there, but looking forward to tomorrow for sure.

Q.  Was it a good 69 today?
LORIE KANE: No, it was  -- any time you're under par, especially in the 60s, you shouldn't be complaining.  I'm not.  I'm very pleased with the front side and how I played, but when you leave some out there, those types of things, you have to clean up.

Q.  Are you going to replay today's round in your head in preparation for tomorrow?
LORIE KANE: I'll go back out to hit a few wedges and take the positive things.  Overall, I'm very happy with the score, but would like to have a couple of shots back.

Q.  You and Catriona both played well today, but there are a lot of others that are within striking distance.  Did you look at the scoreboards much today?
LORIE KANE: Yeah, right, you know, I thought at the beginning of round that I would just stick with the player that I was playing with and just try to do the best that I could for myself, you know, hit all the greens, try to hit all the fairways first and give yourself some chances.  I really thought it was going to rain all day long and that was going to have to be the mode, but we got very fortunate with the weather.  Everything is so tight around here.  You know what's going on, and I had Juli and Meg in front of us.  They were never in eye shot, so you kind of knew what was going on.

Q.  Do you have any special strategy with all-day rain that was here today?
LORIE KANE: Just to try to stay patient.  I think that's the big key.  When, you know, the potential is that it's going to rain all day long.  You can tend to get quicker.  You have more clothing on.  I warmed up in my rain suit to try to stay dry, but I knew I would be taking some of it off by the 1st tee.  I'm not comfortable playing like that, so the strategy was you have to make sure you do everything a little bit slower.

Q.  When Catriona bogeyed 16 and 17, did you think it was your chance to make a move?
LORIE KANE: Well, no, I didn't, because, you know, what I was trying to do was birdie the last few holes coming in to get prepared for tomorrow's round.  There is going to be a low number out there, and you're going to have to shoot well here to win.  It starts off tomorrow, and it's got to be ball on the fairway and go from there.  It was unfortunate, those are putts that she doesn't normally miss.  The greens are tricky.  You know, they're a little bit bumpy, and particularly at the end of the day, with all the water around the cup, it's very bumpy.

Q.  This tournament's record is 20-under-par and there are a lot of players that have a chance to break that.  Does that say something for the level of talent on the LPGA right now?
LORIE KANE: I agree 100 percent with you.  No, I think, we're playing some fantastic golf week-in and week-out, and Annika has, like I said yesterday, raised the bar and the rest of us are holding on for dear life.  Corning deserves a good field.  They have been with us for 25 years, and they're going to have a good champion, and I hope it's me tomorrow.

Q.  Is there any correlation to the large number of veteran players that are atop the leader board to being able to manage these conditions?
LORIE KANE: Well, I would have to say with the veterans that are on the board that come to mind right off the bat, Juli, Meg, Beth Daniel.  Beth I believe probably has the best swing in golf.  It's no surprise to me she's where she is.  She is tough.  Juli is a die-hard competitor and Meg as well, so, no, they're there, and it's no surprise.  I think it's been a while since they have been back to Corning.  That's why it's nice for the tournament that we're here.  I hope tomorrow that mother nature is kind to us, so we can bring the great fans out that we normally had. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT