BANK OF MONTREAL CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN
August 14, 2002
Lorie Kane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
NEAL REID:  Talk about how the course looks and how you feel coming in this week with your golf game.

LORIE KANE:  The course is great.  The fairways are starting to dry a little bit.  The greens are rolling at a perfect speed.  I think that they're rolling probably the best we have seen in a while on Tour.  So how my game is, it's good.  I'm looking forward to the week.  I played, hit some good shots today in the pro-am and just looking forward to getting tomorrow started. 

NEAL REID:  Questions? 
Q.  Where were you in 1981 when this tournament was held here for the first, the last time?

LORIE KANE: I was at home in Prince Albert Island I think 1981 I was still a junior.  We held the Canadian Junior in 1982.  I do know that.  And in '83 we were there.  So I was just getting my game together in '81. 
Q.  Same question you get asked a lot, of course, when you're here.  But how much would it mean to you to win one here in Canada and to win this one in particular?

LORIE KANE:  It would mean the world, I guess to any Canadian I'm sure to win at home.  For myself, every one knows I'm a hockey fan.  I think it would be something similar to winning the Stanley Cup.  We don't get many opportunities to play at home in front of the hometown crowd.  I am from Prince Albert Island, but I also am Canadian and no matter where we travel in the country the fans are out of this world and very supportive of us.  So for myself I would love to win.  For the country I would love to win even more.  And I know there's added pressure with that, but all we can do is go out and play the best we can and at the end of the week if it's good enough, it's good enough.  If it isn't, then I'll try again next year.
Q.  It's early in the week of course but can you sense the fan support out there already?

LORIE KANE:  Absolutely.  There's a lot of Bank of Montreal blue shirts around.  We got a lot of volunteers.  I know that Summerlea has been very supportive of the tournament, which is great.  The superintendent is doing all he can to make the golf course challenging.  It's in great shape.  And so everything is leading up in the right direction and again I'm really looking forward to getting started tomorrow. 
Q.  Not generating negative thoughts but have you been able to put last weekend out of your mind?

LORIE KANE:  I played really well last week.  With the exception of two holes.  I never would have thought that plus one would have been the cut at a Major and particularly the British Open.  So I was 3-under through the last five holes and played very solid.  I'm 5-over on two holes.  I tripled the first hole and I doubled the 7th hole.  In my second round.  And if you take that away, that's five shots.  That's a different game after that.  So I was disappointed at the time.  But this is a new week and I'm swinging it well.  I rolled in some good putts today and I'm getting a good feel for the greens here.  So I'm again looking forward to tomorrow.
Q.  Did you take your parents to Scotland?

LORIE KANE:  Yes. 
Q.  They don't usually see you play in tournaments.

LORIE KANE:  They do.  They're coming out more and more as my career moves on.  It's easier to take them to Scotland than it is to Montreal. 
Q.  Why is that?

LORIE KANE:  Well it's just, I have extra things that I need to do and I try to make this week as simple as possible.  My mom would love to be here.  But she also wanted to go to Scotland and she can't be away from the business too long.  So it's just -- they have never been to Scotland and it was a new experience for them.  And I wanted to give them that opportunity.  So they chose there.
Q.  But I know they weren't there at Ottawa two years ago, they weren't there last year?

LORIE KANE:  No.
Q.  They're not a jinx or anything are they?

LORIE KANE:  No, they're not.  They're not.  What it is is just me asking them to understand that it's easier for me to have them at home cheering for me than it is for me to have them here. 
Q.  Did you have the chance to discuss with Joslyn what it's like to win at home?

LORIE KANE:  Well I've been talking to Joslyn about winning at home since I was a member of the past du Maurier series, when I came on to that season in '93, I believe.  Joslyn has been an inspiration to all Canadians and has helped definitely in building this the Bank of Montreal to the level that it's at.  Winning at home, she's just, it's as simple as one shot at a time and try to stay out of your one way.  But Joslyn definitely is an inspiration to all us Canadians. 
Q.  Can you sum up your year so far to tell us, give us a prognosis of what's good, what's not good, what are you happy with, what are you not happy with?

LORIE KANE:  Well, I'm happy with everything.  The beginning of the year I got off to a great start.  And every one knows that I lost in a playoff in Hawaii and went through a little bit of a transition in my game.  And I attribute it to just basically getting in better shape physically.  My timing was a little off.  But I found it now.  And I'm glad that I went through those little hiccups, because I'm more happy with me and the way I feel.  With this heat I know this time last year I wasn't in as good a shape and I would be tired at the end of the round.  Now I'm getting ready to go practice, go workout, have dinner.  I don't know that I could have done that last year.  So on the physical side I'm really happy with myself and on the golf side things are coming back together and I'm rolling the ball well on the greens, I've hit a lot of holes, I've hit a lot of edges, so sooner or later the ball has to go in the cup.
Q.  I would like to know, what is your preparation physically and mentally before a tournament. 

LORIE KANE:  Well physically I follow a pretty good schedule.  I do something every day.  A little bit of cardio, a lot of core work, I try to eat right.  All those kind of things.  On the mental side I just try to prepare myself and stay positive.  This game requires a lot of patience.  When Bob asked me how the year had gone, I probably in the middle of the round and if he's read the column in the Gazette you had learned that I had lost a little bit of patience.  And that's not normal for me to do that.  So my patience is back and on mental side, now that I've seen the course a couple times, I'll probably spend a little bit of time tonight just going through it again in my head.  Visualizing really good shots.  And I'll put it to rest and I'll have a good dinner and be ready to go. 
Q.  (Inaudible)?

LORIE KANE:  I set goals at the beginning of the season and, right, and I don't, I try to do the best that I can.  I try to keep everything on an even keel and not -- my goals were set then.  And each week I go out and try to do the best I can. 
Q.  We all know your history of course what happened to you before you won for the first time.

LORIE KANE:  I'm sorry, I didn't hear you. 
Q.  We all know the history of what you went through before you won for the first time.  You went on, you won four events.  Is it a different kind of hunger that you have when you're trying to win again as opposed to when you're trying to win for the first time?

LORIE KANE:  I don't know if it's a different type of hunger, I think that anybody who tees it up any week really wants to win.  Winning your first tournament is something that -- well it took me a little while.  To say the least.  But it was a -- I'm glad I traveled that road.  Because like I've said before, I wasn't ready to win in '97 when I was in a playoff with Annika at the Tour Championship.  To win what now would be my fifth time, it's different but it's not any different.  I don't spend much time in the past.  So I'm moving forward.  I'm just trying to stay out of my own way when things are going well.  And take it -- it's just so basic.  It's one shot at a time.  You can't win on Thursday.  But you can win on Sunday.  And you can -- Karrie last weekend had an awesome round on Sunday and ended up winning a tournament that she was three shots back or four shots even maybe.  And so winning your first tournament is tough.  The ones after that you know you learn, you have the experience, and the confidence.  And I think confidence is the big thing that makes the difference. 
Q.  What have you done to be in better shape?

LORIE KANE:  In terms of exercises?  What types of exercises.
Q.  Yes. 

LORIE KANE:  A lot of core like I guess is now the new buzz word.  Abs, abdominals, crunches, a lot of legs, you know, I don't do a lot of over my head with weights.  We work every other day I do cardio.  I probably did the chunk of getting myself to where I am now in the off season.  I was able to be in Florida and go over to Bradenton to IMG Academy and work out twice a day with David, with football players, tennis players, other athletes.  And it's, it was a lot of fun.  And now basically what I'm trying to do is maintain.  We're not trying to get -- I don't think I'm going to get in any better shape through the season.  It's just trying to give myself stability.  And that's why I keep saying core, because in the golf swing posture is so important.  And I feel that much stronger standing over the ball now than I ever have in my life.  I feel very good. 

NEAL REID:  Any more questions for Lorie?  Okay.  Thank you very much. 

LORIE KANE:  Thank you guys. 
NEAL REID:  Good luck tomorrow. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT