MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY AIG
June 6, 2002
Lorie Kane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.  Let's do your score card.  11, 16 and 3. 
LORIE KANE:  Okay. 

Q.  Let's come back.  Let's talk about your round first. 
LORIE KANE:  Let's talk about my round.  No, things were going pretty good.  You have to be extremely patient, and I was joking with myself, I am battling me, myself and I, and nobody else, and I am winning the battle, as far as that's concerned, "I" meaning  -- did you get that? 

Q.  Means it all.  Sounds good, though.
LORIE KANE:  You come to tournaments week in and week out, and a major championship always seems to have a little bit more to it, and DuPont Country  Club this year is probably in the best shape I have seen it ever. 
The greens are like landing on that floor, and they roll like that, so  -- you know, and the rough is like this long, so anything you are  -- if you are off the fairway or if you are in the rough around the greens, it takes everything you can to just get up and down and save par. 
So having said that, I haven't been playing very good coming into here, and I just wanted to come out and try to play the way I know I can play and not get in my own way, so that's what I mean when I have to battle with me, myself and I. 
I  -- you know, I stayed pretty patient and I gave myself some chances, and I got some good bounces and recovered when I needed to.  I think I am remembering my score card now because I know I started on the back 9. 
11, I hit my 60-degree wedge, I probably had 72 yards to the hole, I think, and made a nice 15-footer for birdie. 

Q.  16 was a par 5.
LORIE KANE:  16, the other par 5, tried to go to the green in two and just came up shy.  You know, I wasn't quite hole high, but probably 20 feet on the fringe in the rough, chopped it out to about 3 feet. 

Q.  Chop or chip?
LORIE KANE:  Chopped it.  It was a chop.  It's this long.  You are probably better off to be a little bit further out than right up against the collar, it's tough.

Q.  Kind of hit (Inaudible)?
LORIE KANE:  Well, I spent a lot of time, I came out late Monday night and had a very relaxing practice round late Tuesday night and hit  -- Danny and I hit every shot, I think, known to man out of that stuff, with every club, 7-wood right through the wedges, and I think I am comfortable with what I need to do. 
Now, having said that, you know, basically, when it hits the green, it can go anywhere because the greens are really firm.

Q.  Are you finding yourself hitting less club off the tee in certain holes than you did previously just to keep it in play, because of the importance of keeping it in the short grass?
LORIE KANE:  Yeah, absolutely.  I am playing a lot these days with my 4-wood, particularly right now at this course.  I think I teed up a driver on every hole.  I don't remember us changing out. 
You know, now today on number 1, I had a driver, but during the practice rounds we hit a 4-wood just so we could land in the landing area.  Today I was a little bit into the wind, but 10 we hit a 4-wood.  I don't remember many times hitting 4-wood off that tee, but that's right, the rough is so severe that you need to  -- even if you have a little more club into the greens, you can't afford to be in it off the tee.

Q.  Does it remind you of the US Open?
LORIE KANE:  Yeah.

Q.  Except for the people (Inaudible)?
LORIE KANE:  Yeah, exactly.  I have only played in six US Opens, I think, and this is severe, this is probably more than I ever have seen at a US Open.

Q.  Is that good?  Do you like that?
LORIE KANE:  Yeah.  You know, if it stays  -- what I would like to see is consistency.  When we come to a tournament site on Monday, that we start to practice on Tuesday, and that things stay the same right through the weekend. 
Now, obviously you can't  -- Mother Nature will do what Mother Nature needs to do, but I am impressed with the way the course is set up.  It is a major championship and, you know, drive it in the fairway is a premium.

Q.  It looked like a couple times if you landed just short of the green or on the green, it was kind of soft, on the green it was a brick.  Did you notice that? 
LORIE KANE:  Well, I noticed it in the practice and was quite  -- and have asked the officials how much water is being put on the fronts of the greens.  You know, it's only my opinion, but I would like to see the course fast, meaning everything fast, and if you have got firm greens, then that requires you to play a different type of game into the greens, but if the fronts of your greens are soft, then it's pretty difficult. 
You can really hit great shots and not get much out of it, and that's where the patience has to come in because that's going to happen.

Q.  How much, Lorie, do you think conditions like this  -- how many players does this eliminate from serious contention?  Not a number, but, I mean, does it?
LORIE KANE:  Well, I think it does in the  -- from the perspective that you can really be playing well and get really frustrated by a missed shot here or there, and you can potentially make a big number from very close to the green. 
So, you know, I think the person with the most patience will end up being successful here.  I don't know if I answered your question, but  --

Q.  The last hole.
LORIE KANE:  The last hole, my last hole of the day was the third hole and hit a 7-iron, actually got a very lucky bounce, and I thought I was well through the green but I was 10, 15 feet and made it just as the horn went.

Q.  Lorie, talking about being patient, have you  -- are you being patient with yourself this season?  I mean, this is a little slower start than you probably want. 
LORIE KANE:  Uh-huh.

Q.  Is patience  -- is that a factor for you?
LORIE KANE:  I haven't had much patience in  -- just after the West  Coast swing, and I don't know where I lost patience, because I consider myself to be quite a patient individual, but I lost it somewhere, and, you know, I look back to the tournament that I ended up losing to Annika, and maybe that was where it was, because I had set some pretty lofty goals for myself for the season, and have probably put myself in very good shape physically, and expected things to be clicking, and they didn't. 
You know, after  -- finishing second or losing the playoff to the world's best player, you know, well, let's go to the next one, but at the end of LA I was tired, and I didn't really recognize it, I probably shouldn't have played that week, but wanted to, and from that point up to a couple weeks ago I needed a butt-kicking because I was giving myself the greatest one. 
And you can't do that out here, you just have to play the best you can day in and day out.  And I am happy that I am back to where I feel comfortable standing over the golf ball and know that if I play good, fine; if I don't, there is another week.

Q.  You just took some time off?  That was what you needed?
LORIE KANE:  Well, May was kind of a funky month because I am not one to take time off, but I was given an honorary degree by the university at home and I had to go home for a week, so I was playing a week on, a week off and that's not good for me, I need to play more, so I am out for the long haul now.

Q.  Okay. 
LORIE KANE:  I could talk forever, but there is people outside. 

Q.  Thank you very much.
LORIE KANE:  Thanks, guys. 





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT