DU MAURIER CLASSIC
August 12, 2000
Lorie Kane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LORIE KANE:  Well, where will I start?  It was an under-par round, but it was kind of a shaky one.  I wasn't a hundred percent comfortable.  I was swinging the club; my rhythm was probably a little too quick.  And rather than fight it, I just kind of went with it.  And as long as I didn't make any huge mistakes, and we didn't, Danny and I managed ourselves quite well.   We did have some chances that I didn't capitalize on; and of course, my lone bogey  -- I just hit a bad putt.  I was quite comfortable standing over it, but I didn't hit it with enough speed. But overall, I'm quite pleased with where I sit, and really looking forward to tomorrow and getting out there and celebrating what I know is going to be a heck of a Sunday for the 2000, and probably the last du Maurier Classic.  So I'm going to know that I'm going to have really exciting feelings about what's in front of me, but also sad ones, because we know at the end it will most likely be the last. 
 
LORIE KANE:  All right.  Bear with me, because I can't remember the 4th hole. The 4th hole is a par-5.  I have no idea what I hit in there.  I'll tell you what I hit into the par-4.  I hit 6-iron, because I had hit my drive in the rough.  And it was probably 20 feet.  How could I forget that?  14, we hit -- I just had a little pitch, maybe -- I was only about 10 yards from the front edge of the green.  And it was above the hole, maybe eight or nine feet.  The lone bogey was the next hole, and we missed the green short left, and I left myself maybe five feet.  It was straight uphill; I just didn't hit it very good. 
 

Q.  What did you hit in?
 
LORIE KANE:  7-wood. 
 

Q.  On that 4th hole did you have to work some kind of shot --?
 
LORIE KANE:  I had to go right up over the trees.  I couldn't see the flag from where I was. 
 

Q.  You were probably pretty happy just to find the green.
 
LORIE KANE:  I had great commentary from the spectators that were behind me.  "Get up, get up.  Oh."  Was that good or bad?  
 

Q.  How many times did you hit your driver?
 
LORIE KANE:  Just once. 
 

Q.  The yardage?
 
LORIE KANE:  I think you're talking about 13.  We had 228 to the hole, and I hit my ball a little bit different than Annika.  So for me to hit my 3-wood, there's not a chance of it getting up.  So I just use my utility driver off the ground.  That's a fun shot to be able to hit, because it landed maybe 20 yards from the green and rolled up on to the green. 
 

Q.  How far do you normally carry that off the deck?
 
LORIE KANE:  Carry it?  Driver off the deck?  I have no idea, ask Danny.  
 

Q.  How tricky was the wind out there?
 
LORIE KANE:  It was tricky.  I don't know that it was really tricky or it was so different from the first two days that kind of made you think a little bit more.  I mean, yesterday we had absolutely perfect conditions yesterday morning.  I couldn't have asked for anything better.  And I was glad to see the wind blow today, because it's a major championship, and Mother Nature has to step in somewhere. 
 

Q.  Were you pleased with today?
 
LORIE KANE:  I was overall pleased with the way I handled the round.  Of course, it could have been better; but like I said, I wasn't a hundred percent on with my timing.  And to be able to manage yourself when things aren't great and still be under par I think is a good accomplishment. 
 

Q.  Did you feel that you might have been on the edge a little bit about the 10th hole when you were down by two strokes?  You put the ball in the bunker; Annika has a short putt, which she misses.  You make a save.  And on the next hole -- what were you thinking when she hit this putt on the next hole?
 
LORIE KANE:  I was thinking she hit such a great shot and got nothing, and there was no way that she was going to stop that ball.  She didn't have a chance.  She was either going to leave it above the hole, which I knew she wouldn't, or putt it almost off the green.  And the ball just wouldn't stop.  To be honest with you, I never paid attention much to where either one of us was, if I was under par or how many shots ahead she was.  I was just out there playing, trying to get it in the clubhouse with as little trouble as possible, I guess  -- I don't know, without making any big mistakes.  And it is Saturday, and you don't want to lose any ground.  But I was just content where I was and plodding along. 
 

Q.  Could you see anything that you did today (inaudible)?
 
LORIE KANE:  Well, I'm going to be playing the golf course, and I know that Annika will be doing the same thing.  I truly enjoy playing with her.  She never ceases to amaze me with her composure, the way that she attacks the golf course.  She's very methodical and she does her thing, and she doesn't -- she's just very focused and she's -- well, she's one of the best players that we have out here, and she's a true sportswoman.  It's just a real treat to play with her. 
 

Q.  Will your strategy change tomorrow from today?
 
LORIE KANE:  No.  I'll go out -- I'm going to try to get into some better rhythm right off the bat, and then we're just going to have as much fun as one can possibly have. 
 

Q.  David was saying that it was almost like a hockey crowd out there today.  Were you surprised about the crowd and no fights broke out?
 
LORIE KANE:  Well, I'd like to find the little guys who damaged the first green.  That's too bad.  But, you know what, the fans have been fantastic.  It's so much fun to walk up -- well, I can't even say to walk up to the green, because it starts when I get on to the tee and when I leave the tee. It's 18 holes of just clapping and cheering and encouragement.  I was joking with Annika's husband, David, and I was saying I might be able to loan you some of my people for tomorrow, so that you're not alone up there. 
 

Q.  What would it mean to you to deliver that last championship as a Canadian and for du Maurier?
 
LORIE KANE:  Well, it's not a good question right at the moment.  What would it mean?  The world.  I've already mentioned endless times this week I would not be here if I hadn't had ,  first of all, the du Maurier Series to play when I decided to turn pro in 1993.  I made very good friends with Jocelyne Bourassa, who has been -- I always say that my mentor in the LPGA Tour is Nancy Lopez, but my mentor early in my career had to be Jocelyne, because without her, we wouldn't have had what we had with the program and all the great things that the program allowed me to do -- not to do, to become.  I think to be able to deliver what I hope will be a major championship to both Don Brown and Jocelyne would mean the world to me.  And I know that I'm going to do the best I can tomorrow.  But win or lose, I don't have anything to lose.  I think with what we've accomplished to date this week, Corporate Canada is listening, I'm sure.  And they are going -- we're going to find a way to continue not only the Classic, but the Series program, come hell or high water, as good Maritimers say (laughter). 
 

Q.  Do you feel sometimes the weight on your shoulders of trying to be the saviour to save this event?
 
LORIE KANE:  Nope, I'm just one of the hard workers to -- one of the many, just trying to get the word out there that this is a great event.  Look at all these people that have been here over the last four or five days.  If there is not another company in Canada that does not feel they can benefit from this type of thing  -- I mean we've got a big country, don't we?  
 

Q.  What takes priority, though, Lorie, with you?  You've been doing a lot of talking for du Maurier and the circumstances surrounding this event, but you've got to be focused on playing golf tomorrow.  How do you make the change from --?
 
LORIE KANE:  It's not a change, it's part of me.  
 

Q.  What do you mean?
 
LORIE KANE:  This is part of me.  This is where I began, this is how I've become the player that I've become.  And I'm going out there tomorrow to play for myself, but for everybody else who's helped me get to where I am.  There's a lot of work to be done tomorrow.  And like I said, I don't think that I'm in a position to win or lose.  I've got nothing to lose.  I'm going to go out there and have fun and enjoy what's being done.  I'm playing with Annika Sorenstam, and she's not going to hand it to me, nor will the other ten players who I think have a shot at it.  I'm ready to go.  I'm focused.  I know where I'm at. 
 

Q.  You don't think it's a two-person race at this point?
 
LORIE KANE:  I don't think you can ever say it's a two-person race ever in a major championship, not with the golf course the way it played today.  It could turn around and be maybe like it was Friday, but I can't see it happening. 
 

Q.  Can you compare with where you are right now, today, as to where you were last Saturday, your mindset?
 
LORIE KANE:  About the same.  Very comfortable, excited about what's going to be ahead of me.  I'll spend a little bit of time later just -- I'll visualize the golf course and then I'll put it to bed, because I want to go out and have a nice dinner and enjoy Ottawa, and be ready to go tomorrow. 
 

Q.  You think you'll have time to go to dinner?
 
LORIE KANE:  I know the Outback delivers.  I just want to say to you folks as the media, from me to you, that I really appreciate all the support that you've given me this week, and the rest of the Canadians, and the great things that I'm reading about -- or hearing, because I haven't really been reading, about what you're writing in support of the event.  And we do appreciate it.  Thank you.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT