CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 21, 2014
Lorie Kane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Are the kids, Brooke and them, bold enough to approach you for advice?  
LORI KANE:   Yes, Brooke has.  
   
 Q.   Or do you seek them out?  
LORI KANE:   No, they have to come to me.   I think it's important that they get comfortable with their surroundings.   
Nicole Vandermade and I have worked a lot and talked a lot and played a lot of golf over the last couple of years in Florida once she finished school.  
Brooke, we play practice rounds when we can.   Unfortunately, this week we both were very busy at the beginning of the week and weren't able to do that.   Brooke has sought me out, just like Nicole has.   
I'm here for any of them that want to chat or play a little bit or just ask questions.   I mean, I've been doing this a long time.   I leaned on other Canadians, Dawn and Gayle and Lisa Walters to help me out when I needed it.   So I'm here to help if I can.  
   
 Q.   When you were 16, 17 did you get to play the amount of golf that these kids ‑‑  
LORI KANE:   No.   I call them professional amateurs.   When I was 16 or 17, I was working in the golf shop trying to have enough money to go play in amateur tournaments.   I didn't turn pro until I was 29.   
So I didn't play college golf.   I played college basketball or university basketball and field hockey.   I think these kids are more one‑dimensional, sport‑dimensional.   Golf Canada and the programs that they have are helping them do what they do and I think that's great.   
   
 Q.   And are they good enough athletes?  
LORI KANE:   They are good athletes.   One of the things that Nicole stands out to me, she would be a hell of a basketball player and was in high school.   
Brooke comes from a hockey background and a goalie background for that.   Goalies are little bit out there on their own anyway.   None of this surprises me.  
   
 Q.   When you see a field of 15 Canadians, does that make you feel good about the status of golf in this country?  
LORI KANE:   I do, yeah.   Quality players and we're only getting better.   I think ‑‑ well, I know, I don't have to think this.   But Jen Kirby had a really good amateur career and is learning her way on the professional side.   I think there is adjustment period from amateur ranks to professional ranks.   
We have seen Brooke have success in tournaments, but she's still an amateur.   When you cross over that line, there is a learning curve.   I still like to keep them comfortable, keep supporting them.   The Young Pro Initiative by Golf Canada will help that.   You are out there on your own earning a living, that putt means something, a little bit more than just hoisting the trophy.  
   
 Q.   You see a lot of golfers who get a lot of hype when they're 14, 15, 16 years old.   What is the key for them to stay on that path and not‑‑  
LORI KANE:   I think it's just stay out of their own way, and that comes from encouragement from the adults in their lives and not to make a big deal out of what they're doing.   
I gave some advice to Brooke.   I said, Don't read your own press.   It's just not worth it.   Because for very good thing you will do, somebody might not think it's that good.   As long as you're on your path and you follow your own goals and you set legitimate goals and things you want to improve on, which she's doing ‑‑ that's fun for me to watch.   She wanted to succeed, came up a little short at the U.S. Open Am, but that's only going to make her stronger.  
   
 Q.   Brooke was playing with Jennifer Kirby, did you ever play in an all Canadian group before?  
LORI KANE:   All Canadian group?   I don't think so.   I don't think I've ever played an all Canadian group in this.   I know Brooke and I have played together at Manulife.   We had a Sunday pairing, which was fun, because anything I could do, she could do better.   No, I don't think so.   
   
 Q.   Cool to see that?  
LORI KANE:   Yeah, I think it's great.   I think it's really good for the fans to come out and watch.   It's nice for them to play together and see where everybody is at.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT