DU MAURIER CLASSIC
August 11, 2000
Lorie Kane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LORIE KANE: We'll go with the front. I birdied 1. I had -- hit sand wedge to 22 feet.
Bogeyed the third hole. Hit a 6-iron short of the green into a big hole and basically
didn't get up-and-down. Then I holed out on the 5th hole from the bunker. 6th hole, I hit
7-iron, 6 feet. 13, I hit 5-iron, had 25 feet. 16, I hit a 9-iron 15 feet. And 18, I hit a
5-iron 8 feet. 

Q. Sounds like you were pretty crisp with your irons today, Lorie?

LORIE KANE: I was pretty solid. I missed a couple of shots, but I was really quite
pleased with the way I was swinging the club all day. 

Q. How far was the shot you holed out?

LORIE KANE: Bunker shot, oh, it was a short bunker shot, maybe 20, 25 feet, 30 feet. I
kind of was below the hole. It was one of those shots that you have a real good chance of
making.

Q. I couldn't tell from where I was standing, but your second club -- how long was that
putt? Didn't it go on the side?

LORIE KANE: The second putt.

Q. For bogey. 

LORIE KANE: That was right in the heart.

Q. I couldn't tell from where I was.

LORIE KANE: If I had hit the first putt with enough on that line, it was in. I just
didn't hit the putt hard enough.

Q. What did you do today that you perhaps didn't do yesterday? Or what went for you
today that didn't drop for you yesterday?

LORIE KANE: Definitely the putter. I made some really good putts today that I had the
same chances yesterday and just didn't capitalize on them. I think overall, the last
couple of days, I've been swinging the club really well, and I know that out here if you
get it on the green, you're going to give yourself some chances.

Q. When you looked ahead to today, is this what you saw in your mind, this kind of
score, this kind of play?

LORIE KANE: Well looking at the scores from yesterday's morning round, I had a good
feeling that a low number could be shot out here. And we had a long day yesterday, and it
took a long time to finish. As a result, the greens got a little chewed up near the end of
the day. I was looking forward to getting out on to some fresh greens this morning.

Q. Is this what you looked ahead and said: "This is what I want to accomplish on
Day 2"?

LORIE KANE: You want to make birdies any day you're out there. I just wanted to get a
little bit better than yesterday.

Q. Lorie, the birdie on 18 with the crowd behind, that just looked like an awesome
scene out there.

LORIE KANE: It was very exciting. It's been awesome. I was joking with -- I can't
remember what his name is from CTV, and I apologize for that. He mentioned yesterday that
we might not have any crowds or as big of crowds as we had yesterday. And I said, who was
that guy that mentioned that? Because there were a lot of people out there this morning.
It surprised me. And it was really nice to see. It just goes to show you how important
this tournament is and where we are and that the Ottawa fans want to see some good golf,
and they're seeing it.

Q. How are you feeling with this being the major, potentially the last du Maurier, and
being this thick in the hunt and this well after two rounds?

LORIE KANE: I'm feeling really good. I've been feeling, since I left St. Louis, that
there would be one real nice thing to do for du Maurier, and to thank them for what
they've done for us, is to get a Canadian to win this thing. And I truly believe that
someone will see what's going on with this tournament and how important it is to Canadian
sport, not just golf, but sport and women's sport for sure, that we're going to find
somebody to pick this up. I'm feeling really good about the weekend, and I'm looking
forward to having some more fun and to do some more entertaining.

Q. You're feeling good about your chances, obviously, going into the final two rounds
after today.

LORIE KANE: Yes, you have to be positive. And what good hockey player said
"Winning is an attitude"? I'm not saying his name anymore (laughter).

Q. (Inaudible.)

LORIE KANE: Absolutely. It's fun to have people watching you when -- I have to comment
that the volunteers, the security that are following us around are doing a great job of
trying -- this is a pretty tight golf course, and there's not a lot of places for people
to stand. And they're doing a good job of trying not to -- the spectators definitely don't
want to get in our way. And the volunteers are helping them control where they're going,
and they're doing a real good job of --. I'm sure that it may be a distraction to other
players that are playing with me or around me, because those chairs are really loud.

Q. Obviously things are just clicking for you today. How did you feel, everything, your
whole golf game?

LORIE KANE: I feel very confident. I said yesterday teeing off that it's a feeling I
haven't had in -- I don't think I've ever felt this confident and calm. And I know what I
want to do, and I'm doing it. Danny and I are picking good clubs and managing ourselves
around. And again today I made some great saves and got myself around the golf course with
as few problems as possible.

Q. Lorie, you won by three shots last week. But if it gets tight on the weekend, how
much will knowing that you can -- you've punched through, what will that be able to do for
you?

LORIE KANE: Again, it's the confidence thing. You have to just keep building. And you
can't look forward, but you can't look backward, either. You've got to stay in the present
and play it one hole at a time. There's two long days of golf left. And tomorrow the goal
is to go out and start off where I finished: Hit solid golf shots and give yourself some
chances, and let's have some fun.

Q. That sequence at 16, 17, 18, and then on 1, you nearly birdied every hole. And on
17, I would say you must have just rolled by the side door. 

LORIE KANE: Yeah. 

Q. Was that the part of your round where you decided: Okay, we've got this thing going,
here?

LORIE KANE: Yeah, absolutely. It's momentum. And once you get it, you have to keep
riding it and keep building on it. Yesterday, I felt the whole group -- we'd make a
birdie, then one of us would make a bogey, and that would just kind of wash out the birdie
momentum. So I was trying to build and just trying to stay within my own game today and
play the best I could.

Q. Does saving par on the last hole keep you going?

LORIE KANE: Saving par? I had a good chance at birdie. No, I'm just teasing. I'm just
joking with you (laughter.) I hit my drive -- I shouldn't -- I stared the heck out of that
one. And to get on the green was key. And once I got on the green, I said, "I'm going
to give this one a chance." And I did. 

Q. What was the length of that putt on No. 9?

LORIE KANE: The first putt would have been, I would say, 30 feet. It was pretty much
side to side.

Q. Can you say where your saves were today, which holes?

LORIE KANE: Yes, I can do that for you, I think. The 8th hole, I got up-and-down out of
the bunker. I would have to say that 9, yes, was a save, because I didn't have much of a
lie in the rough after my drive. No. 10, I'd hardly call it a save. I was just in the
front of the -- it was easier to chip in than anything. And that's about it.

Q. How many greens did you hit, Lorie?

LORIE KANE: How many greens did I hit? I hit 13 greens. I may have missed one there,
but I think 13.

Q. Lorie, how are you handling the emotional aspect of what's happened on the course
the last eight days? In the position you are in today, are you really as relaxed as you
appear before us, or are you ready to blow up at any time?

LORIE KANE: No, I'm very relaxed.

Q. How are you able to do that?

LORIE KANE: I think I've been waiting my whole life to win a golf tournament, and the
pressure I've been carrying and putting on my own self has been -- the weight of the world
is gone. And I'm out here just having a blast. And I am as relaxed as I appear. I'm glad I
look relaxed, because I am. 

Q. Is that also where Danny comes into play today for you? You mentioned before how,
shall we say, at appropriate times he gives you a kick in the pants -- I think that's how
you worded it. 

LORIE KANE: That's right. 

Q. Is that also a comfort to you?

LORIE KANE: Absolutely. To know that -- we have a situation where he gets the number,
picks the club, and I execute the shots. And when you're not too concerned about what's
going on, or if I get too concerned about what's going on, he's the first one to:
"Slow down. Here, this is the plan. Let's not veer from it. And keep working and keep
moving forward." And he's very knowledgeable. He knows my golf swing inside out, and
he's -- I've never seen Danny Sharp have a bad day. If I'm having one, he's going to let
me know about it.

Q. Lorie, besides Annika and Karrie, who do you expect to come out of the pack on this
course in the next few days?

LORIE KANE: Juli Inkster comes to mind really quick. There's just about anybody,
because this golf course, you know, sets up good for the long hitters and also sets up for
the girls who can have good wedge games. I know Se Ri is ready to bust out of there, too.
It's anyone's game. Definitely Inkster. She'd be one I'd put my money on.

Q. Has this probably been the most exciting week, considering going from last Saturday,
the buildup, and then coming here and really being the one person everybody is coming to
see?

LORIE KANE: Of course. I've never experienced this before, ever. The attention is fun.
I think it's great for the tournament. This is what we work for. This is what we are,
we're in the entertainment business, and we try to bring people out to introduce them to
the game of golf and the LPGA. And it's fantastic. I'm really -- the crowd has been
awesome.

Q. Do you know the people carrying that PEI sign around out there?

LORIE KANE: Yes, I know several of those folks. I received a sign that's in the locker
room that is probably as wide as this is, right here, and it's from my home club, signed
by all the members, and a note. It's been wonderful, the congratulations I've been
getting, the good-lucks and the flowers, and I've got a lovely bottle of Dom from the
great people at Deloitte Consulting. So it's been really --. I know those ladies. They've
actually -- they're very good friends of Mardi Lunn's, when Mardi won the tournament in
Boston, Mardi was having a few wines with them. They were staying at the same hotel. I
call those girls Mardi's fans, as well.

Q. So Mardi has Canadian fans?

LORIE KANE: Yes, she does. She has Prince Edward Island fans.

Q. Do you like your position? Do you like being first and second position going into
Saturday and Sunday? Is that a good, comfortable place to be?

LORIE KANE: It is, a good, comfortable place to be. You just have to keep building, you
have to make birdies. And I think I learned to be a little more comfortable last week,
kind of sleeping with the lead on Sunday, and -- or Saturday. And I'm just going to keep
making birdies.

Q. Lorie, did you happen to see the kids wearing the T-shirts, "I am Kane
-adian"?

LORIE KANE: No, I haven't seen those.

Q. I was going to bring up the same point, because those kids wouldn't necessarily have
been at this tournament two or three years ago. There's just a whole bunch of people that
you have made come to watch you play.

LORIE KANE: Well, I hope that -- that kind of makes me feel good, because I was lucky
that my mom and dad were golfers and got me involved in the game. And not every child's
parents play golf. But if they want to come out and see the tournament, this is the best
place to see it. And our golf is comparable to what they're going to grow up and learn to
play. The LPGA is where it's at. And we encourage kids to come and watch our tournaments.
It excites me to see young kids out here watching us play and learning a little bit more
about the game. I think it's -- golf is a great game for kids to learn, because they learn
sportsmanship like no other sport can teach. Etiquette -- there's rules. And golf is a
game that you can learn life skills from golf. And I'm glad to see there's lots of kids
out here.

Q. How are you going to make sure that your own family stays home this weekend?

LORIE KANE: Because I know that there's only a few flights out, and I don't know that
they'll get here in time. No, if they wanted to come, they'll come, but I know that
they're going to stay at home. 

Q. Lorie, you spoke so highly of the du Maurier Series. Is there a chance that the
Classic doesn't make it, is there still a chance the du Maurier Series could be saved?

LORIE KANE: I don't know. Maybe there is if -- I know du Maurier obviously can't be
involved. But potential for somebody else to come and take that on a smaller scale. I
think it would be wonderful. The Series is -- it's a really unique thing to Canada, and it
really allows Canadian women who want to go to that next level as a club professional, to
stay in the business on the playing side, to kind of have a little bit of both. Because,
let's face it, at a club, people don't always want to take lessons from people who can't
play, even if you are a professional. They want to know that you have a little bit of
game. And they like to see their local club pros out playing in tournaments. And there's
nothing for the girls to play in other than our Canadian PGA Championship and the du
Maurier Series. I hope we can find a way to keep that going.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT