PAGENET CHAMPIONSHIP
November 13, 1999
Lorie Kane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







LORIE KANE: Playing with someone like Karrie Webb inspires you to do good things. She
doesn't miss many putts, and like I told the Golf Channel people, I played with Kelly
Robbins yesterday and Karrie today, and both are very aggressive putters, and that's
something I've been kind of lacking a little bit. When you watch two players like them
putt, you know that they are not afraid to knock it by a couple of feet and make it coming
back, and that's -- it's good to watch. And I think I fed off that, definitely, putting.
And I also had a nice chat with Judy Rankin this morning about winning, and that I am able
to win. I want to win, and she just told me, she goes, "You have the tools to do what
needs to be done." And the great thing is that I keep giving myself opportunities.
Yet again, we have another opportunity, and we'll see what happens hard. I also have a
great chat with Ian Baker Finch leaving the driving range this morning, and we were
talking about putting and he said, "When you're over the putt, just think of nothing
else but a nice, smooth stroke. Don't worry about anything else." I have to thank
both of those people because I used what they had given me and some support this morning,
on the golf course. 

Q. Maybe people should be watching you on this golf course, you're always in the hunt
and you've had some success here?

LORIE KANE: I really like the style of play that you have to have here. I grew up on a
very old golf course, and this is one. You have to hit your tee shots properly, and very
much position -- position-type of course. And the greens, if you hit it in the right
place, you're going to have some chances. I guess the first year I was here in '97, I was
as surprised as anybody that I was here; that we played as well as we to get here. And I
just had a great week -- I can't even say losing because I don't think I lost anything
that year. I think I gained a whole lot of knowledge in the playoffs with Annika, to come
back the next year, last year, and play some pretty steady golfer. But I'm ready, and I'm
going to go out and tomorrow and I'm going to get inspired because I'm going to that fight
tonight (Laughter.)

Q. Who do you like? 

LORIE KANE: Lewis. He won the last one, didn't he? (Laughter.)

Q. (Inaudible)?

LORIE KANE: Well, Laura Davies and I decided this morning we're going to share him.
He's a little bit of both. 

Q. Is it almost a sense of dejavu, been there, done that, or is it totally different?

LORIE KANE: Totally different. If I go back to 1997, I was quite a few shots out of the
lead and went out on Sunday and just had a good Sunday round, which put us in the
playoffs, Pat Hurst and myself and Annika. I think this is a little different. Probably
have a little more water under the bridge and a little more knowledge and a little more --
there's a little more that needs to be done, and I want to get it done. We're going to go
out tomorrow and do our best.

Q. Do you think there is more pressure because you are tied for the lead?

LORIE KANE: I'm not going to use it as pressure. Judy also said something to me this
morning. One of my goals was to lower my stroke average, and it still is one of my goals.
It has always been the goal. I always put that thought of winning somewhere behind me, and
Judy brought up that six months ago, she said, "I think you changed your mind in that
you were able to talk about winning." And I am able to talk about winning because I
want to win. I'm going to go out tomorrow with the attitude that I have the skills that I
need to get the job done, and I'm going to do it. 

Q. Do you like the position that you're in? Se Ri had such a big lead and she came
back. She's going to go to bed with negative thoughts; whereas, you go to bed with
positive thoughts because you caught up?

LORIE KANE: I can assure you that Se Ri Pak will not go to bed with any negative
thoughts. (Laughter.) She does not think negatively. She's too -- she loves life and she
loves playing golf. And today's round won't be anything other than just maybe a
not-great-day-at-the-office. I'm kind of glad and excited that we're playing together
tomorrow. We'll definitely have some fun, and, you know, you look at the girls that are
here, the Top-30 on our TOUR, and anybody can win any week. I think tomorrow will be --
we've got Se Ri and I in the last group, but don't forget the two that are ahead of them,
because Juli Inkster Karrie Webb, they will fight to the end. You know, I think Inkster
has a couple things she wants to prove; so it's she's going to be tough to beat. She
probably wants to see how close she can get to that title, Player of the Year. I'm not up
on statistics. On the Golf Channel they tell me about money list and those things that I
don't pay too much attention too. But the year-end awards are important to both of those
players, and they are going to want to do their best tomorrow.

Q. I've heard that one of the knocks against you is you're too nice. Tomorrow, you're
playing with your best friend. Do you have that killer instinct to go out there?

LORIE KANE: I'm a fighter. I think you can be nice and still win the fight. 

Q. How did you start golf?

LORIE KANE: My older sister and I entered the game when we were both five. She's 21
months older than I'm. My dad was in the business; still is. We play about six months a
year. I stayed in Canada and went to school; was late getting here. I still think it was a
good idea that I did take my time. We have great golf courses, and I just took every
opportunity that I had to play and took advantage of things that were given to me, and
played in the International League in Canada for a few years and made it out here. 

Q. Have you noticed all of your emotions or attitude changing during any of the eight
runner-ups that you've had?

LORIE KANE: I think I'm getting -- I definitely know I'm more determined. But I still
look at all of those eight second-place finishes and the playoffs that I've been in; I
haven't really done anything wrong. I've played very well. People just seem to make long
putts where I might come up a little bit short. And I will tell you, in Atlanta, I hit a
terrible putt and Rachel ended up winning the tournament. In New York, I really thought
that that was my tournament, and she made a 25-footer. What am I to do? You just have to
chalk it up and move on. I know that I just have to give myself more chances and take
advantage and try to minimize the mistakes I've made.

Q. Do you feel it's owed to you?

LORIE KANE: I don't think -- first of all, you don't own the game of golf; so I don't
know that I'd be owed anything. I think you need to give yourself chances. No one can give
me a win. I am going to tell you, the rest of the players are not going to sit back and
not decide to play tomorrow so that I can get into the victory circle, the winner's
circle. That's not going to be the way it is, and I don't want it that way. I want to win
it because I've played good golf. I had a birdie on 3. It was a 7-iron, 30 feet. The next
hole, 8-iron to two feet. 7, I 3-putted. 8, I hit 7-iron -- I'm still drawing a blank for
the hole -- three feet, there you go. 10, I was on the fringe with a 4-wood and 2-putted
for birdie. 15, I hit out of the bunker to 10 feet.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT