PAGENET CHAMPIONSHIP
November 11, 1999
Lorie Kane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Can you go over your card?
 
 LORIE KANE: Birdie on 2, 8-iron, six feet. 8-iron, four feet on 3. 6-iron on the par 3,
10 feet. Bogeyed 11. Hit 5-iron in the bunker and didn't get up-and-down. 
 
Q. Do you know how far your putt was?
 
 LORIE KANE: About five feet. 15, a lovely wedge out of a divot in the lay-up area to 15
feet above it and made it. I hit 8-iron 10 feet just above the hole on the next one, and
then that's it.  
 
Q. Can you talk about your round today and how the course played?
 
 LORIE KANE: I was as nervous as I've ever been.  
 
Q. Why?
 
 LORIE KANE: I don't know. I wanted to play well, and I was ready to go. I'm ready.
Motivated to get on with the show. No, I was really nervous. In fact, I think that was
good because I played really solid. 
 
Q. What does that mean? Do you feel in your stomach?
 
 LORIE KANE: I know when I'm that nervous that I'm 100% on. Like, you know, you don't
take anything to chance. You just -- I mean, my grip wasn't tight, which was good, but I
was just wanting to play every shot as best as I could. And I hit it close the whole front
nine, and kind of relaxed through the back nine and got lazy and missed a few greens, but
got up-and-down . 
 
Q. You got overconfident, maybe?
 
 LORIE KANE: I wouldn't say it was overconfident, but I just got back into that -- a
little too relaxed, if there is such a thing. 
 
Q. So it's a good thing to be nervous?
 
 LORIE KANE: I think it's a good thing to have the adrenaline. 
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 LORIE KANE: A little bit further. That's why we hit 8-iron a lot of places. We had that
145 to the pin and I could easily hit a nice 7 (-iron), but I was going to the 8( -iron).
Hit my driver well, too.  
 
Q. Were you tired, coming from Japan?
 
 LORIE KANE: No, I think that I was motivated to come here and play better, because I
played very good in Japan, but never made anything. You know, we got a good night's sleep
on the way home. I think Japan, I've always played well over there, and I knew that as a
stepping stone to come here. And I'd rather when you have a tournament this big, rather
have played last week than not, than take two weeks off.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT