U.S. OPEN
September 6, 2010
Kaia Kanepi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. KANEPI/Y. Wickmayer 
  0-6, 7-6, 6-1

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. All of a sudden the match turned around. Can you explain what happened? 
 KAIA KANEPI: I think I had a little luck. I was 15-40 my serve, and I served two aces. I said to myself, 15-40, I just go for it. I relaxed. 
 Then, yeah, the match started turning around for my side. 

 Q. What happened in the first set then? 
 KAIA KANEPI: Well, I think she played really well. She was hitting very hard and near the lines. So everything just worked for her. 
 I didn't think I hit so bad. Just a little bit tight, a little slow, and she played very well. 

 Q. And then the third set? 
 KAIA KANEPI: Well, I think I was like in the zone or something. I was just fighting every point. I tried to relax, also not think about the win. Yeah, I played well. 

 Q. What was the key moment, in your eyes? 
 KAIA KANEPI: I think the game 15-40 was the key moment. 

 Q. At that point did you think there was no way you could turn it around? 
 KAIA KANEPI: Yeah, well, I had nothing to lose, so I just went for a powerful serve, and it was a good serve, an ace, and then next point ace. Then, I don't know, just went for my side. 

 Q. Do you consider yourself a player who can usually get an ace when you need it? Was it a surprise you were able to get those like that?
 KAIA KANEPI: No, I don't think about that. It just happened this match. 

 Q. Must be quite satisfying. You've now knocked two big seeds out of the tournament. 
 KAIA KANEPI: Yeah, it's a very good feeling to win and be in the quarters of a Grand Slam. I've never been here, quarters. 

 Q. Do you feel different to Wimbledon? You were in the quarterfinals of Wimbledon this year. Are you feeling in the same kind of form as you were back then?
 KAIA KANEPI: Yeah, I think I play good. I played there good, too. Yeah, I feel the same. 

 Q. What made you choose tennis? Is tennis really big in Estonia?
 KAIA KANEPI: No, it wasn't at that time. But my parents played for fun, and my sister played more. I'm the youngest. So I went with them to practice and with my parents when they played. So it was quite normal that I start to play, too. 

 Q. What surface did you grow up playing on?
 KAIA KANEPI: On clay. 

 Q. What sort of reaction do you get back home? Does everyone recognize wherever you go?
 KAIA KANEPI: Yes, most of the time.

 Q. Everybody is getting a bit crazy about the results back at home, are they?
 KAIA KANEPI: No, I think they are very polite. They are not approaching me that much. 
 But I see that they recognize me, talk to each other. But, no, it's okay. It's very calm. 

 Q. Is it fair to say that you're lacking a bit of regularity?
 KAIA KANEPI: Yes, you're right. Also I have problems starting the matches. Sometimes I'm very slow. Then sometimes it's too late to get going. I think I'm getting better now. But, still, it's the point where I have to improve. 
 I think if I improve my game, that one, I'm going up. 

 Q. Thoughts if you play Zvonareva?
 KAIA KANEPI: First she has to win. Then we'll see. 

 Q. Do you remember, have you won a match before when you lost the first set 6-0? 
 KAIA KANEPI: Well, actually I was looking at Sharapova, won 6-Love, 6-Love. I told my fitness coach, I remember last time I lost 6-Love, 6-Love was I think when I was 13. A match 6-Love, I thought, wow, I need to take a game. 

 Q. You went from winning one game to winning the match. Were you thinking, Maybe this is not going to happen today?
 KAIA KANEPI: Yes, it's very typical. I had many game points, and it just didn't come my way. 

 Q. Did you expect to be in the quarterfinals of the US Open? Did you think about it?
 KAIA KANEPI: Well, I thought I have a very good chance if I play well. I have been in quarters in French and Wimbledon, so I thought it's possible here, too. 

 Q. Were you injured? You were wearing a wrap. 
 KAIA KANEPI: No, I'm not injured. It's just protection. I had a little bit problem with my hip. But it's all right. No injuries. Protection. 

 Q. What you like to play against Zvonareva or Petkovic?
 KAIA KANEPI: I think they're both difficult. They're right-handed, fighting a lot. I have played Zvonareva when I was juniors, not after. I have played Petkovic. I really don't know which one to prefer. 

 Q. What can you say about Zvonareva?
 KAIA KANEPI: I think she's a great fighter and a very good player. You can see her ranking, that she's good. 

 Q. Does your game style suit her?
 KAIA KANEPI: I think it's okay. Like I said, I haven't played her, so I have to see it. 

 Q. Do you have a ranking goal?
 KAIA KANEPI: I have. I was 140 a few months ago. So I had to be top 70 for this year. But now I'm higher, so... No further goal for ranking this year. 

 Q. You had to come back from injury before. What did you have exactly?
 KAIA KANEPI: I didn't have a long-term injury. I just had a few small injuries last year. But, no, it didn't affect. I was still playing. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT