BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 4, 2015
Kaia Kanepi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. KANEPI/A. Petkovic
  6‑4, 6‑7, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Pretty impressive way to start the season.   Feeling like you were hitting it pretty cleanly today? 
KAI KANEPI:   Yeah, I felt I was hitting very well.   I also was hitting good in Estonia, so I felt confident coming here. 

Q.   You mentioned that after the match, that you were training over there before coming here. 
KAI KANEPI:   Yeah, I was in Estonia for two months training there only indoors in the cold and rainy and dark.

Q.   Must be a big change coming out to the heat and everything here. 
KAI KANEPI:   Yes, but it was very nice actually.   I like heat and warm weather better. 

Q.   Did you feel drained?   Pretty hot day out there.   How are you feeling?
KAI KANEPI:   No, I felt good.   I didn't feel that heat that much because I like heat.   I don't like dry weather. 

Q.   You seemed to have a few troubles with your serve in the third set.   Was that a problem for you?
KAI KANEPI:   Yeah, I felt my back was getting tired, because at the end of the season I had problems with my back and I haven't played any match since two and a half months. 
But it's nothing serious.   It's just haven't had the matches.

Q.   So it was just tight and getting tired?
KAI KANEPI:   Yeah, getting tired.

Q.   Yeah.   The serve, did it exceed your expectations after the long time off?
KAI KANEPI:   Sorry? 

Q.   How did you feel in this first competitive game in two months?   Were you satisfied with it?
KAI KANEPI:   I was really, really happy actually.   I didn't expect anything.   I just wanted to have a good match, and I thought the longer I be on the court the better for me. 

Q.   And your record here in Brisbane is pretty good.   I guess did you feel confidence coming out here?
KAI KANEPI:   Yes, of course.   Winning this tournament, I will always remember that, even if I come back here in ten years or doesn't matter.
So I still have the feeling, and I feel, I think, better because of that.   (Smiling.)

Q.   How do you think your form compares to when you won here?   Sort of different circumstances. 
KAI KANEPI:   I don't know actually.   It's tough to say.   It also depends of my opponents, how good they playing and how well I'm playing and if I have luck or no.
So it's tough matches all the time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT