AL DIVISION SERIES: TWINS VS YANKEES
October 3, 2019
Jose Berrios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Jose, are you feeling okay? You look like you're folding under the pressure there. How are you dealing with the pressure of a Game 1 start?  
JOSE BERRIOS: In reality, I'm just really happy, excited to be here, honored I was chosen to throw the first game of the series, and I'm just happy to be here.   
 Q.  Jose, what did you take away most from your experience pitching here in the Wild Card game a couple years ago?  
JOSE BERRIOS: Mostly intensity of this game. It's going to be good. It's going to be fun. I remember playing in Puerto Rico. The atmosphere is different. I think it's going to feel like this here in this ballpark. Just looking forward to that.   
 Q.  When did you find out you would start tomorrow, and when do you get into game mode and prep, planning for this specific lineup?  
JOSE BERRIOS: I knew it since a week before the season ended, but for obvious reasons, we didn't make it public. Now it's public, so just looking forward to the opportunity tomorrow night.   
 Q.  And are you in lineup mode?  
JOSE BERRIOS: Yes, I am, and my last game, since I knew it, I was preparing mentally and threw it like it was a playoff game.   
 Q.  How much have you matured since that game in 2017, and in which ways do you feel like you've matured as a pitcher since 2017?  
JOSE BERRIOS: I think a lot. Since then, I've grown a lot as a player, inning by inning, game by game, I gain a lot of experience, and I think that's going to help me tomorrow night.   
 Q.  Obviously, it's not an easy part to play in and it's an important game tomorrow. How do you prepare for a game like tomorrow night?  
JOSE BERRIOS: I agree with what you said, it's not an easy place to play in. There will be a lot of pressure and emotions, but I'm just going to prepare like a regular game and go out there and try to execute and do the things that I've done the entire season.   
 Q.  Jose, you mentioned Puerto Rico. What do you remember about the atmosphere in that start? How did you maybe manage yourself through it?  
JOSE BERRIOS: So when I was a young kid, when I was growing up, we always play every weekend with our family, friends, a lot of people, and we always have like music there. So between innings, during the game. So we get used to it. I already know what it's going to be tomorrow, the atmosphere out on the field.   
Last year, I had the chance to pitch against Cleveland back in Puerto Rico. You guys went there with me, so you guys already know how big and excited it is for people in Puerto Rico.   
 Q.  Jose, it seems like you've spent the season making adjustments -- two seamers versus four seamers, throwing more change-ups, working on your curveball. At this point, do you have all your pitches where you want them to be heading into this start?  
JOSE BERRIOS: Yes, obviously. I can't say no because I pitch tomorrow.   
(Laughter)   
Tomorrow, I'm going to go out there, do my thing, have fun. All guys, all my teammates there in the clubhouse, we're so excited for tomorrow. So tomorrow is another opportunity in my life, and I'm going to give it my best effort.   
 Q.  You've previously spoken about playing in Puerto Rico. What does it mean for you to play in a city like this where a lot of Puerto Ricans live here?  
JOSE BERRIOS: It's a great opportunity playing in front of a lot of Latin fans, and I know most of them are Yankee fans, but I'm looking forward for the opportunity, and I'm going to do my best effort to go out there and try to win this game.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT