RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 5, 2017
Angela Yin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great round out there, 3-under par 69, how would you describe it?  
ANGELA YIN: Lots of up-and-down.  It was raining on and off.  So it was hard.  But I think I did all right today.   
 Q.  You did more than all right.  Let me show you a highlight here.  This is a long putt for birdie on the first that went in?  
ANGELA YIN: I was pretty stoked.  Smashed that thing.  Look at that, look at that -- look at that --   
 Q.  Your caddie knew it was going in.  And then this one, great iron shot in.  You're striking your irons well.  
ANGELA YIN: Yeah, pretty good.  Solid.  I'm shaping it so -- and it's going where I want it to.  So it's good.   
 Q.  And do you enjoy shaping the ball?  
ANGELA YIN: Yeah, I do.  I love drawing it most of the first time.   
 Q.  And the creativity that's required on links golf, is that something that you enjoy, as well, because you've played a season on the Ladies European Tour where you finished 11th on the Order of Merit and obviously that must have prepared you, as well as your golf, but the elements, as well.  
ANGELA YIN: Yeah, LET prepared me as a pro for the LPGA this year.  I didn't like link course, hated it actually until this year -- (increasing rain) look at this, it's raining.   
 Q.  For people watching that have followed your career when you were 13 years old and first burst on the scene at the U.S. Women's Open and you've played in two ANA Inspirations as a junior.  How much did that help prepare your game for your rookie season now?  
ANGELA YIN: It let me see where my game is at and what I'm missing.   
 Q.  You turned professional last year and now you're inside the Top-10 at the RICOH Women's British Open.  What do you put your good play down to this week?  
ANGELA YIN: I started working on my ball shaping last week and really worked out well this week.   
 Q.  You're now in the conversation for the Solheim Cup.  Juli Inkster will make her picks Sunday night.  A finish in the top 5 could automatically qualify you for the team.  How aware are you of that?  
ANGELA YIN: Actually I didn't know about it.  I just know that I'm close.  I'm up there.  So I just need to play well this week.   
 Q.  And how have you found playing links golf?  I imagine it's not something you've played much of before?  
ANGELA YIN: No, we don't get this a lot.  We don't get links, because I'm from L.A. and we don't have links there at all.  Started getting used to it because I played in the LET last year and there was a lot of links going on, and got me prepared for today and this week.   
 Q.  What will you do to try to prepare for the final round tomorrow?  
ANGELA YIN: Just play my game, play shot by shot and do what I've been doing the whole week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT