U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 2, 2016
Tiffany Chan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How do you feel coming up there?  Pretty steady round for you?
TIFFANY CHAN: Yeah, I think I hit it good again.  Well, I had two bogeys, the second and third hole, had that little three-putt on the third hole.  But I kind of came back at the end, got my rhythm back.  But then there's still room for improvement.  I think I hit it pretty good, so could be a lower score.  But it could be worse or could be better.
So I think I'll put my focus on the match play.  There's only two rounds of stroke play, and I think I know the course more, so hopefully I can get the mistakes out of my mind tomorrow and then hopefully can make it further after 64.
Q. I know this is your first USGA Championship, and I'm guessing not your first time in match play.  Which do you prefer, stroke play or match play?
TIFFANY CHAN: I'm kind of a match play person, because with friends we always play games like match play, but nothing serious.  My last match play is NCAA, so it's been a while.  I mean but it put myself more focused on one shot at a time instead of the total score.
So I think the match play will be a good format for all of us, as well as for me as well.
Q. I know you're using this leading into Rio.  How do you feel you're setting up?
TIFFANY CHAN: I think I'm in a pretty good shape.  I played six pro events before I came here for Rio, so after NCAA.  So I only had two weeks off before this one, so I kind of chilled with family.  I was hope and then tried to get everything settled down and then put it back to tournament mode.
Then I really want to put this USGA event into like a warm-up before Rio.  So I don't really want to focus on the result of this tournament, but also I want to do my best because it's my first time.  So hopefully I can advance further and further.  But my goal is try to -- because I had a little back injury playing too much, so this one I was like, okay, let's make it to match play and then try to advance more.
Q. Is your back bugging you at all?
TIFFANY CHAN: Not now, but it was three, four weeks ago.  But now it's getting better.
Q. Good, you've got to get better for Rio?
TIFFANY CHAN: Yeah, thank you.
Q. When do you head there?
TIFFANY CHAN: August 13.
Q. Are you excited?
TIFFANY CHAN: Yes, I am.
Q. Are you staying in the village?
TIFFANY CHAN: Yeah, I'm staying in the village because it's a really good experience they say in the village.  Because I played the Asian Games before, so we stayed in the village as well and you see all the athletes.  It's just one of the most exciting things that I want to see again.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT