WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2001
Thomas Johansson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR: Could we have the first question, please. 


Q.  If anyone watched you serving the first six games of this match would be astonished to see what happened in the first set tiebreak.  Seems unbelievable that you could be down two sets the way you started out.  How do you explain it?

THOMAS JOHANSSON:  I think in the first set we both played as well as we could.  I mean, he was playing really well, and I was serving really well.  I had a set point at 6-5.  He made a good forehand there.  Then he made a great tiebreak.  Then in the second set, I wasn't there really.  I was somewhere else.  I don't know what happened there.  I think he was a little bit too good for me today. 

Q.  Did you become demoralized from being set point up and suddenly six games went by?  You say you weren't there.  What was that feeling?

THOMAS JOHANSSON:  I felt I didn't feel good out there in the second.  I mean, I was thinking a little bit too much about the first set.  Suddenly it was 5-Love.  That happens if you're not there.  It doesn't matter who you play.  You have to be there all the time.  You have to stay focused and take one point at a time, and I didn't do that. 

Q.  When his backhand began to let him down in the fourth set, did you feel like, "I can exploit this, get this into a fifth set"? 

THOMAS JOHANSSON:  Yeah, for sure I had a couple of breakpoints there at one stage in the match, I think it was in the fourth.  I don't know what the score was, maybe 3-2.

Q.  2-1. 

THOMAS JOHANSSON:  2-1.  Maybe he made three great first serves.  That's too good.  You never know what would have happened if I won the fourth.

Q.  It seemed in the third you started to read his first serve very well, especially in the last game.  You returned three first serves very well on the backhand.  Do you think it could have changed?

THOMAS JOHANSSON:  I think he has one of the best serves in the game.  It's really tough to read because he has a great kick out wide on the ad side.  Sometimes it doesn't matter if you're there.  You cannot return it because it's so hard and it's a lot of spin on it.  But I took some chances.  I think if you take away the second set, I think I did a good match. 

Q.  In the final tiebreak, the fourth set tiebreak, two backhand errors.  Could you discuss those? 

THOMAS JOHANSSON:  I think he made a couple of good returns.  I mean, when I was 2-1 down, he made a good return.  I tried to go up the line with my backhand.  It's tough because you have to try to keep his forehand away because his forehand is really good.  He can hit it anywhere on the court.  If you're going to hit it on his forehand, you have to hit it really well.  So I went for a little bit too much there.

Q.  Could you have done something else besides trying to chip the other one?

THOMAS JOHANSSON:  Sure, I should have done a lot of things.  You know, you have to make quick decisions all the time.  Maybe I made the wrong one. 

Q.  Could you believe that you would serve 25 aces and lose the match? 

THOMAS JOHANSSON:  No.

Q.  May be a lifetime high for you. 

THOMAS JOHANSSON:  Yeah, probably.  I was serving well today.  He made two really, really good breakers.  I think that was the big thing about the match.

Q.  Are you surprised by the fact that he's not intimidated by his first time on the Centre Court of Wimbledon, that he just played his sixth or seventh match on grass?

THOMAS JOHANSSON:  I saw him last week in Nottingham, I think with his serve, I mean, he's a good grass court player.  But if he can improve his volley a little bit, I mean, when he can serve-volley, I think he's going to be even better.  It's really, really tough to do something about his first serve, and especially second serve, too.  I think he should use his serve a little bit more to go to the net.  But he's a great baseline player, too. 

Q.  What's next for you? 

THOMAS JOHANSSON:  I'm going to take a couple weeks off and I'm going to play  -- I don't know how if I'm going to play LA, but for sure I'm going to play Montreal.  I'm going to start there.

Q.  In the seventh game when he shouted out, disputed a call, tossed his racquet, the crowd stirred a little bit.  Did you notice what was going on?  Did you think, "Maybe he is just a kid after all"? 

THOMAS JOHANSSON:  I think he was right about that call.  I mean, we were playing for three hours out there.  There was not one overrule.  I think that's not so good.  He's only 18.  I mean, sometimes you can see that, but sometimes he's very mature when he's playing.  I think he's going to be for sure a Top 10 player in the future. 

Q.  Was there big pressure in your home country longing for times of Edberg and Borg?

THOMAS JOHANSSON:  It's been a little bit different the last couple days because I've been playing really well for the last two weeks.  I mean, I'm just trying to go out there and do my best all the time.  It doesn't matter if I'm the favourite or if I'm not.  I'm just trying to win the match, take one match at a time. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT