US OPEN
September 5, 2000
Thomas Johansson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR: Questions for Thomas. 

Q. I think it's 5 for 5 in tie break sets. You played your share of them so far in this
tournament. Does that give you a sense of confidence? I mean tiebreakers are a
high-pressure situations, and you've prevailed in every one you've played thus far. Does
it give you a sense you could have it on the line and prevail?

THOMAS JOHANSSON: Of course. Especially this tournament, I played, I mean, really good
tiebreakers in every match almost. I played a good tiebreak today, too. I was -- I think I
was a little bit unlucky not to win that one. But against a guy like this, he serves so
well so you have to put so many returns in as possible. But I mean he can hit ten serves
that you cannot catch. I mean he serves that well. But, of course, when it goes to
tiebreak, I feel very confident, just for the moment, yeah. 

Q. Was there a sense coming into this tournament that, you know, things were going
along for you so well last year, then you weren't able to play because of your illness,
did that come into your mind when you entered the tournament this time, that, "I want
to show myself in New York"? You did well in '98 here. Did that come into your mind?

THOMAS JOHANSSON: A little bit. I remember when I went to the hospital last year when I
had to do this biopsy. But now I feel very good. I haven't played as well that year. But
coming into this tournament I felt, I mean, I didn't play last year, so I was really happy
to play this year. So I looked forward to The Open for a very long time, and now I'm in
the quarters again. So hopefully I can take one more step this time. 

Q. You say you haven't played well this year. I know it's been a disappointing summer
in a lot of ways. Is there something in your game that you've connected with here that you
could name?

THOMAS JOHANSSON: Well, I think I haven't been playing that well, I mean, in the
matches. If you play bad on this level, you lose. I mean it doesn't really matter who you
play. If you play the tournaments I played this year, if you play bad, you lose. I mean
it's that simple. When you lose a lot of first rounds, it's really tough mentally because
it's getting into your head. So I won a couple of first rounds, but I never reached the
quarters or the third round in the tournament. So I've been struggling a lot this year.
But as I said, I looked forward to The Open for a very long time. I didn't play last year,
and I've been -- actually, this is my best Grand Slam year so far. So that's nice. 

Q. Did you get the feeling that his serve was getting weaker?

THOMAS JOHANSSON: Well, the tactic before the match was to try as long rallies as
possible from the baseline, so he got tired. And if you get tired, you don't serve that
well. But I mean I think he served really well the whole match. I was lucky to break him
twice in the third and in the fourth. So I mean he has maybe the biggest serve on the
tour, one of the biggest serves I will say. So it's very tough to play him because you
have to stay really focused in your own service game so he doesn't come in on your second
serve, for example, because then he's really good. He covers a lot of the net, so... So my
tactic before the match was to put a lot of first serves in so we could rally from the
baseline. 

Q. Any thoughts on your next opponent?

THOMAS JOHANSSON: Well, I'll play --.

Q. -- The winner of Martin and Moya.

THOMAS JOHANSSON: I've played both of them. I've never beat Todd, but I think I'm 2-1
up against Carlos. But they're both playing really well for the moment, so I mean it's
going to be a tough match, whoever wins. 

Q. If you compare the US Open you had in '98 in which you went in to play the
quarterfinals, what in your game has improved that will make a difference this year?

THOMAS JOHANSSON: Well, I think I'm a little bit stronger this year physically. We've
been practicing hard off the court because I haven't played so many matches, so I had a
lot of time to exercise off the court. So we've been running a lot, and I feel really
strong now. I could be out there for a long time. So if you have that feeling, you're
pretty confident with your game too. So, but it's a big difference because last -- two
years ago Krajicek retired, but then I had to beat Kafelnikov to go to the quarters. This
year I haven't played a seeded guy so far. So I mean it's -- all the players are really
tough to play. If you compare this year to two years ago, I had to beat the Top 10 guy to
get here. 

Q. Both Todd and Carlos have very good track records playing here. They've played some
tremendous tennis at this tournament. How much will you have to raise your game from where
you played today to beat them, presumably if they're playing, you know, their style of
tennis?

THOMAS JOHANSSON: It's gonna be a completely different match. Today, in his serve, he
was only serve and then the point was over. Against I think both Carlos and Todd, it's
going to be more rallies from the baseline. I think I'm gonna have to struggle a lot more
in my own serve maybe if I play Carlos or Todd. But other than that, it's just to play my
own game, and hopefully I could serve a little bit better than I did today maybe. And then
I have to stay with them, I mean with the rallies and stuff like that. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT