US OPEN
September 3, 2000
Thomas Johansson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions for Thomas. 


Q.  How much was the weather a factor for you out there today?  You weren't sure when you were going to play.  Did it affect your schedule at all?

THOMAS JOHANSSON:  No, it didn't affect me at all actually.  They only changed our court once.  They changed us from the center to Armstrong court.  I mean, it was the same.  My first match I played, I had to wait for a long time because it was really long matches.  I'm used to it. 

Q.  He said he didn't think he played particularly well, that you were just very steady, sort of outlasted him.  Did you feel you were more patient?

THOMAS JOHANSSON:  Well, I think, yeah, we played in Hamlet last week.  I think he played a lot better from the baseline than he did today.  I think today I played pretty steady from the baseline, served pretty solid.  Jan-Michael is very tough to play because he serves so well.  He gets so many free points on his own service game.  But I'm really satisfied with my performance today.

Q.  When did you hear about Magnus' win?  Did that filter through to you during the match?

THOMAS JOHANSSON:  No.  I mean, it was really noisy when we played because obviously it was a great match on the other court.  I didn't know until I finish my match that Magnus won.

Q.  That's a big lift to you, three Swedes in the fourth round. 

THOMAS JOHANSSON:  Yeah, I think it's a great effort of us Swedes because Sweden is a pretty small country.  We have three guys in the fourth round, I mean, with pretty good chances to reach the quarters also.  I'm really happy to be in the fourth round.

Q.  Your thoughts on Wayne Arthurs?

THOMAS JOHANSSON:  I know him.  Maybe he has the best serve on the tour.  It's Wayne and Greg maybe, and of course Pete.  I think I have to play solid from the baseline and put some returns on the court.

Q.  Are you pleased with your returning today?

THOMAS JOHANSSON:  Yeah.  I think Jan-Michael is serving so well.  Sometimes you have to take a chance which way you're going.  Especially when I broke him in the fourth set, I think I returned pretty well. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT