SEMGROUP CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JOHN Q. HAMMONS
May 5, 2007
Stephanie Louden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Stephanie, great round.   
 STEPHANIE LOUDEN:  Thank you.   
  
  Q.  Up and down, can you talk about the course and how you played?   
 STEPHANIE LOUDEN:  I think my game was solid today.  The putter kept me going; it did yesterday, too.  I had some good opportunities and some of the putts I hit were good.  The wind is definitely a factor, kind of shifting a little bit, sometimes it's not going too hard.   
 Then it will shift back into it, so that's been tough, but I think I held my own out there, great wood shots, and iron shots.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Let's go through your scorecard.   
 STEPHANIE LOUDEN:  Okay.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Birdie on 2.   
 STEPHANIE LOUDEN:  Birdie on 2.  Hit a 7-iron on No. 2, and they're about 6 feet and hit it right in.  No. 3, I actually hit a driver off the tee today.  The wind was into us, and I hit a 9-iron in about 6 feet and rolled it in.   
 Let's see, 7 I hit an 8-iron into No. 7, perfect shot at it and made it.  No. 9 I hit a 5-iron to about 12 feet and rolled that in for a birdie.   
 THE MODERATOR:  And 8?   
 STEPHANIE LOUDEN:  8, I hit a great cut shot down to the left of the green, chip shot almost went in, about 5 feet by and lifted out.  11, hit a 7-iron in from the left bunker and hit it about 16 feet and made it.  Let's see.   
 THE MODERATOR:  13?   
 STEPHANIE LOUDEN:  13 I hit in the right front bunker; I blocked it up into the wind.  I was planning on a big draw from the wind, and it lost all steam, and I used an 11-wood or Ping L-wood is what it's called.   
 Stayed out there and hit a good bunker shot, and it never came down.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Okay.   
 STEPHANIE LOUDEN:  16, I hit my driver left over in the rough, in the trees, pitched back out to 90 yards and thought I made it, but it actually hopped once and started spinning back, almost went in the hole and kept trickling back and that green is pretty severe.  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  People atop the leaderboard either have not won or haven't won in a while.  Do you figure you have just as good of a chance as anybody else?   
 STEPHANIE LOUDEN:  Definitely.  I think any week you always have that chance, because ultimately, this year we've seen it.  There have been players up there that haven't been there before, but at whatever level we've been there, that's how we got to where we are.   
 I feel confident about tomorrow.  I will go out and enjoy the day and hit fairways and greens and see where it puts me at the end of the day.   
  
  Q.  Do you relish having so many people grouped together at the end of day?   
 STEPHANIE LOUDEN:  It's fun.  Everybody is in it.  We just watched the Kentucky Derby.  You want to see everybody in it until the end.  There's birdies to be made out there, and if you can make some good pars, it makes it fun for the crowd and the fans.  That's what you want.   
  
  Q.  You stole my question.  I was going to say we just saw a great horse race.   
 STEPHANIE LOUDEN:  That's what it looks like, and that's the best way to watch sports.  You know how that is, the game coming down to the wire.  That's what you want.  I'm glad to be part of it, and I look forward to it.   
  
  Q.  Rankin, you and Nicole, all at 4-under.  Do you have any relationships with any of those gals?   
 STEPHANIE LOUDEN:  Nicole, before she got married we played junior golf together for many years.  I think we played against each other at the U.S. Junior Golf Championship, and we've played a lot of tournaments.  I know Reilley, and Karin I've just met since she's been out there, but a lot of good players up there.   
  
  Q.  Does it change anything from Sunday, having past relationships with players?   
 STEPHANIE LOUDEN:  Not necessarily.  You always go out and do your own thing no matter what.  You can't worry about who you're playing with or what they're doing, but it's nice out there, definitely.   
  
  Q.  You're a nice girl.  Do you have any bets on tomorrow?   
 STEPHANIE LOUDEN:  I don't do gambling, unfortunately, but, you just never know.  I don't know what the weather forecast is going to be, but I think it's going to be rough, so it is a game of patience.  We'll have to see what we can do when we get out, if we get out.   
  
  Q.  How much has the course changed today as opposed to yesterday?   
 STEPHANIE LOUDEN:  The fairways are firmer, the greens roll great.  It's just a little bit drier, so you're going to get a little more roll off the ball, but if you're into the wind it's not rolling anywhere.   
  
  Q.  Have you ever been in this position?   
 STEPHANIE LOUDEN:  Never.  Ultimately this is what I work for.  This is all the days of grinding it out.  I'm looking forward to it.   
  
  Q.  Annika backed out of play because of back injury.  You were chosen to be in her place.   
 STEPHANIE LOUDEN:  With my status I am an alternate, so there is an alternate.  So you get slotted wherever you finished last year.  So the girl who finished ahead of me was already in because of somebody else, and I was 4th alternate that morning.   
 And it's an interesting story because I didn't think I was going to get in.  There were three girls ahead of me, and I was getting ready to go out, and all of sudden she called me and I was 4th alternate, so ultimately the other girls weren't there on site, and I happened to be.   
 And I got a 10-minute warm up, 5 for hitting balls, 5 for putting and go to the tee.  It was a blessing to get in and played because I hadn't played early on this year and wanted to get out and try it.  It's been fun.   
  
  Q.  You're taking this too literally.  You've gone from replacing Annika in that tournament to atop the leaderboard --   
 STEPHANIE LOUDEN:  I hope so.  I'm hoping for that, I'd love to win.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Thanks, Stephanie.    
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT