SEMGROUP CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JOHN Q. HAMMONS
May 4, 2007
Stephanie Louden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Stephanie, first off thanks for coming in.  You shot a 2-Under, 69 today.  Talk about how you played. 
 STEPHANIE LOUDEN:  Today was a pretty solid day overall.  As you know, this golf course you have to hit the driver straight.  Did that very well today.  Had a lot of woods it's so long it was wet. 
 But really kept the ball in front of me and in play and was really happy with that.  Hit quite a few greens and the putter is feeling really good. 

 Q.  Let's go over your score card.  First hole birdie. 
 STEPHANIE LOUDEN:  Yeah, first hole birdie.  Just hit a wedge two great traps and hit a wedge in there about ten feet and rolled that right in for birdie.  And No. 2 I had an 11-wood in there about ten feet and just lipped the high edge for par. 
 3, I hit 5-wood and a 6-iron on the center of the green about 30 feet and two putted for par. 
 No.4 -- it's hard to do, go back. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Just do the bogeys. 
 STEPHANIE LOUDEN:  Yeah.  No. 5 I hit it in the water off to the left off the tee just dead straight.  Pulled it just a touch so it just fell in but made a really good save there. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Birdie on 10. 
 STEPHANIE LOUDEN:  Birdie on 10.  I hit a 7-iron up to about four feet right in the center. 
 THE MODERATOR:  And they had you for an eagle on 14. 
 STEPHANIE LOUDEN:  Yeah, I wish.  That hole is playing pretty long today and just hit a wedge in there about ten feet and rolled it right in. 

 Q.  Okay, 16. 
 STEPHANIE LOUDEN:  16, I hit a driver right down the middle.  That's hole is playing pretty long today, too.  And hit 5-iron about fifteen feet, which is a pretty good 2-putt there. 
 17 was quite an interesting hole though.  I didn't know how hard the fairways were going to be.  Yesterday they were pretty wet so I hit driver and it was fine.  But in the past sometimes it can roll through. 
 So I hit 5-wood, which was nice up the right center.  But when I got there I still had like 212 to the hole.  The trees on the right were kind of coming in a little bit so the it was kind of a gut check to see what kind of shot you were going to hit because it was no bargain. 
 Just ripped it right at the pin for about 6 feet, so that was a good shot. 

 Q.  And 18. 
 STEPHANIE LOUDEN:  18, hit driver just a little in the right rough.  Hit a 5-wood in probably 210 to the hole.  It's playing really long as well.  Hit a great 5-wood as good as i can hit it right in the middle.  Unfortunately, that 40-footer is just very slow, even though it's going up and then down, it doesn't really pick up any speed. 
 So unfortunately left it short and just didn't quite make it for the next putt. 

 Q.  This course has been good for you before.  You played good here in '05. 
 STEPHANIE LOUDEN:  I have, yes.  It's a great golf course for me.  I hit the ball very straight.  The greens are just perfect right now.  I mean, you were on them yesterday.  They're just so pure.  When you get the putter rolling it's good and it kind of suits my eye.  I'm excited to be back. 

 Q.  You made your first cut of the year last week and you start off hot.  What's gone right for you? 
 STEPHANIE LOUDEN:  Well, I went to a swing change starting in October last year.  It's definitely been slow going and progress, even though it doesn't look big to anyone else, it's huge playability.  I now play just a slight draw which I used to play a fade. 
 So my lines are a bit different, and it took me a few tournaments to get used to lining up right center.  So I'm finally getting comfortable with that.  I can trust where my tee balls are going. 
 I think it's just all coming together.  I think it's only my 4th event I've played.  I'm happy to have a little bit of a rhythm, so that's been nice. 

 Q.  In the grand scheme of things, when is it time to make a swing change? 
 STEPHANIE LOUDEN:  I think when you just feel a little bit stale.  You just feel like you're doing everything you can do but your not progressing and learning.  That's what I'm trying to get better at, expanding my horizons on my learning. 
 It's so often in golf you get comfortable and you get it out there, but it's not quite working all the time.  I know you have ups and downs all the time, but I wasn't shooting the numbers that I wanted to shoot and I wasn't seeing the progress. 
 It's a step back before you go forward, but I think it's finally kicking into gear. 

 Q.  What does it take to make birdies out here in a situation like this? 
 STEPHANIE LOUDEN:  I think you definitely have to hit your wedges good because you don't have many.  At least in my case you I don't.  And then just really hitting good, solid long irons or woods.  Just get yourself on there and then sometimes you're making long putts for birdies out here. 
 There's not going to be a lot of birdies I don't think.  You just got to try to limit your bogeys out here.  But I love that.  It's like the U.S.  Open.  It's tough and you got hit it straight, but it's right up my alley. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 STEPHANIE LOUDEN:  18, I feel like it was -- I was on the fringe cut on the 12th.  Yeah, 12 up the hill I was on the fringe cut, and then I hit it in the water on 5.  But it was a pretty straight drive just went a little bit too far. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 STEPHANIE LOUDEN:  A few more, but I knew that coming in that fairway woods were going to be happening a lot today.  They're working, so I guess I'll let them do their job. 

 Q.  You talked yesterday about having your husband as your caddie.  How did Mike do today? 
 STEPHANIE LOUDEN:  He did great today.  It's fun to have him out on the golf course.  We get to enjoy each other's company telling stories and joking around.  Also on certain holes he just knows the game so well being a player and having the experience.  On 15, we stood up there and I don't remember how far it was playing to the back, but it was a pretty long hole.  Usually 7-wood is about the maximum I will ever hit there. 
 And we're standing there and the numbers are looking like a 5-wood, but I've never hit a 5-wood there.  I was like, I don't know.  And he goes here's the numbers, here what the back's playing.  Laid it right in front of me.  It was really nice.  He said, That 5-wood is perfect.  After I said, You think 5-wood, and he said, Yeah, I think that's perfect. 
 To have that trust because he knows how that wind feels it's very helpful.  Just swing at it after we calculated it.  It's nice to know that he has those details in mind as well. 

 Q.  Course change at all during the round? 
 STEPHANIE LOUDEN:  Well, the wind started to pick up a little bit.  It wasn't blowing so much earlier.  It was misty this morning it played a little longer, like your shots you had to add a few extra yards.  It wasn't really rain or cold, but just seemed to be heavy. 
 I think it lightened up a little bit, and that wind is going pick up.  We'll see how that affects it.  I'm not quite sure, but I think it will dry it out and I think that will be good. 

 Q.  (No microphone). 
 STEPHANIE LOUDEN:  I don't think it's a big advantage.  I think with all the rain we got it would be very difficult to play the ball down today.  There's a lot mud.  I guess it's an advantage because we're all doing it together.  I think if you hit fairways in these conditions you're doing a good thing and you should be rewarded for that, I guess. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 STEPHANIE LOUDEN:  It's tough.  Some of the tee boxes we had to move up because they got so slushy yesterday.  I think they should be in better shape.  Seemed to dry out on certain parts of the course where it was higher, the fairways were firmer, so that was nice. 

 Q.  Still wet. 
 STEPHANIE LOUDEN:  We got dumped on yesterday in that first hole. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 STEPHANIE LOUDEN:  Do you still bet for candy? 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 STEPHANIE LOUDEN:  We used to bet, yeah.  We used to go for Slurpees and Icees in the summer.  I thought he was just hitting ten-footers.  He was lagging them up there.  I guess as a kid you don't know that, but we used to play for that, yeah.  Mike and I definitely bet when we're playing out there for dishes or something, ice cream.  It's good, so... 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT