NBA FINALS: LAKERS VS. HEAT
October 1, 2020
Dwight Howard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. KCP kind of elaborated on you all's brotherhood.  Talk about what makes you just such great brothers in the locker room.
DWIGHT HOWARD:   I think all of us, we stay in the moment.  We understand how important each piece of this -- each player on this team is, not only on the court but off the court.
You know, we have a lot of guys who have experienced a lot of the different things in this league, and we want to use that experience to help us, to guide us on and off the court.
We're very thankful to be a very close-knit team.  During this time in the bubble we've had an opportunity to get closer.  I think all year everything that has happened with this franchise from the trip to China, having to [deal with that], to then going from China to the situation that happened with COVID, family, the whole Laker Nation, and then the pandemic, us losing a lot of our family members and friends and just people that we know due to COVID.
It's brought us closer together.  And then being in the bubble has also just given us an opportunity to get to know each other.
On a more personal note, there is nobody here but us, so we spend a lot of quality time just talking and being around each other every day.
Q. First of all, how different will your game be without Bam Adebayo?  Bam is doubtful for tomorrow's game.  Also, it's your second time in the NBA Finals after 2009.  What are the differences as a person and player between 2009 and now?
DWIGHT HOWARD:   The first one you said was about Bam Adebayo?
Q. Yes, yes.  He's doubtful for tomorrow's game.
DWIGHT HOWARD:   Oh, well, you know, like I been saying since the series started, Bam has had an amazing year.  To see his progress from Kentucky to now has been amazing.  His growth, his leadership, his mentality has been great.  So I know he'll be ready to play tomorrow.
And also, being in the Finals again means everything to me.  It's an honor and it takes a lot of hard work, dedication, but also patience.  Getting to the finals is very hard.  A lot of players haven't been blessed to even play in the playoffs, let alone get to the Finals.  Just being able to have that moment is something that I cherish.
And being able to have my youngest son here just to experience this championship run that we're on, but also just the bubble experience.  It's been a lot of up and downs, but hoisting up that trophy would be everything.
Q. Dwight, just wondering, you mentioned the experience that this team has.  Danny Green is a player who has won titles in two other places, one last year with the Raptors.  What has he brought to this collection of players as far as you can see in terms of his experience?
DWIGHT HOWARD:   Well, just confidence, you know, and also him knowing that to make a championship run you have to stay dedicated to the process.  You know there will be great days and there will be days where it seems like it's not going to work.  Things happen throughout the season.
But he's been one of those guys that's been consistent with his voice and effort and intensity every day.  I appreciate him as a brother and a teammate.  He's done an amazing job all year, so very thankful to have a guy like Danny.
Q. Given the fact that some players have talked about being depressed being in the bubble, how important is it for players to openly discuss mental health and this issue?
DWIGHT HOWARD:   Well, I personally think some things should be left outside of being put out to the public.
But being able to get that feeling of anxiety and depression out of your system I think is great.  During this time it can be very difficult.  A lot of people saying well you guys are millionaires and you're sitting at Disney World.
But plenty of people who are not playing, you know, who understand what this bubble is like.  For us being on the inside, you know, we just try to find joy in the small things that we have here.  During this time there is a lot of reasons we could be depressed, could be down, sad about just being here while there is a pandemic going on.
But we all understand what the mission is.  We all understand that we have to stay focused and locked in.  For myself, there has been times where I was depressed about just having to be in the bubble, not being able to see my family, my kids.
So it could be very difficult, so I just tried to find a way to escape mentally by doing a lot of reading, getting out and walking, talking to a lot of the people who work for the NBA who are here and experiencing the bubble as well.
So just trying to just share my experiences with them and to listen to their experiences and find hope within each other.
Q. I feel like an underrated story line of the Finals and really of the season is the fact that you are on the same team as Rondo and LeBron James, two guys that you were in an All-Star Game with almost a decade ago now.  How surreal has it been to play with those two guys specifically at this stage of your guys' careers?
DWIGHT HOWARD:   For us it's probably like, man, we should have got together a lot sooner.  But the timing is everything, and we're glad that we have this time to spend together now.
Our kids are much older and we're a lot older, so the experience that we have in the past, but also being able to allow our children to see us go through this has been amazing.  I think all of us have really enjoyed just being around each other, being able to share our life stories and experiences with each other, and also be able to go to battle with each other.
We seen each other on separate teams, so we know how it's like to face each other.  Now being on the same team, all of us having the same killer instinct, that same mindset that when we get on the court the only thing that matters is winning, we are going to stay with the process every single day watching film, talking about everything, talking it through, just getting to know each other, has been amazing.
So being able to play with Rondo and LeBron, two guys that I thoroughly enjoyed playing against since I was 14, 15 years old, it's been amazing.
Q. How do you describe this year with the Lakers?
DWIGHT HOWARD:   Oh, man, this year has been like a really great roller coaster.  We've had some really good things happen, some terrible things happen within our -- with the Lakers.  And like I said earlier, with the passing of the greatest player ever to come out of L.A., the Lakers, one of the greatest players ever, Kobe Bryant, that situation in China, the pandemic.
So this season has been like a roller coaster missing three months of basketball and then coming back and playing.  Right around this time last year we were getting ready to go to China, so the fact that we're still playing basketball has been like a roller coaster for us.
You know 2020 has been crazy, but it's also been one the best years of my life.  Despite all the things that have happened, a lot of things have turned around.  It's just a testimony to anybody.  Just always stay positive, and no matter what life gives you, life is really a roller coaster, a journey.
Some people come in your life, some things come in your life for a season, for a reason, and sometimes for a lifetime.  I think throughout this whole process, all of us have developed really some lifetime friendships and bonds with people here in the bubble that we can carry on forever.
This year has been crazy, and hopefully we can top it off with a great championship.  We're looking forward to Game 2 and coming out with some more intensity and putting the pressure on the Heat.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT