NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: ROCKETS v WARRIORS
May 20, 2015
Dwight Howard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DWIGHT HOWARD:   I think today it's best that I stay off of it as much as possible, try to do a lot of ice, just get it treated for the rest of the day, and see how it feels in the morning.   
   
 Q.   How did you feel this morning when you woke up?  
DWIGHT HOWARD:   The same as last night.   
   
 Q.   With respect to the knee?  
DWIGHT HOWARD:   The same.   The same.   You know, it was very sore.   It was throbbing during the game.   But just another test that I think I'll be able to overcome.  
   
 Q.   What was the mood of the team with blowing a 16‑point lead yesterday in their house?  
DWIGHT HOWARD:   Well, this is the first game.   It's a long series, and we're not going to lose our minds, you know, over the first game.   We feel like we did a lot of things that put us in a position to win, and we did a lot of things that allowed them to have that game.   We have an opportunity in front of us to win Game 2, and that's where our head is at.  
   
 Q.   Given all you've done to get healthy this time of the year, how do you cope with this injury?   
DWIGHT HOWARD:   Just stay positive, you know, don't allow any doubt or negativity to run through my mind.   It was just a freak incident that happened, and I'm not going to allow this to change my energy or my mood towards our goal and the positivity that we have all brought to this team.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you'll be back on the floor at some point?  
DWIGHT HOWARD:   Yeah, I mean, no doubt.   It was very painful to play last night, and Coach just felt like it was best that I sit out the rest of the game.   I tried to play on it, but there was really nothing I could do last night.  
   
 Q.   If you were in the same situation tomorrow, the same level tomorrow that you tried to play with last night, can you get out and help in any of the ways, or would you have to sit?  
DWIGHT HOWARD:   I'd have to sit.   I've got to listen to my body.   The most important thing is that I'm healthy.   Nobody can understand an injury when they're injured but the person that's injured.   This is going to be on how I feel.   If I feel like I can tolerate it and go out there and play through it, then I will.   But my career is the most important thing, and I want to do whatever I can to help this team, but I can't help the team if I'm hurt.   
   
 Q.   If you had to play tonight, would you be able to?  
DWIGHT HOWARD:   Thank God we don't have to play tonight.   
   
 Q.   Is the doctor saying it will be your call?  
DWIGHT HOWARD:   Well, they just said we're going to wait until tomorrow.   It's too early.   It just happened last night.   Today I was in some pretty good pain and got the MRI, I've been icing and doing all the proper things, so I've got the rest of today, and we'll see come game time.  
   
 Q.   What were your thoughts with regard to (inaudible)?  
DWIGHT HOWARD:   Well, just to stay positive and not allow it to defeat me.   Going through so much this season that I won't allow this to stop me from doing what I need to do to stay healthy and help this team.  
   
 Q.   So you will not (inaudible) tomorrow?  
DWIGHT HOWARD:   I won't know until tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   How tough is that to not know if you're going to go or not?  
DWIGHT HOWARD:   I'm not going to think about it.   I'm going to stay positive, do the right things as far as getting treatment, icing and doing all that stuff, but like I said, I'm not going to allow this to defeat me and my spirit.   As a team we've come a long way, and on a personal note, I've come a long way, and I won't allow this to defeat me.  
   
 Q.   Is there concern that you could make it worse if you play tomorrow night?   Is that an issue or a factor?  
DWIGHT HOWARD:   I don't even want to think that way.   Whatever is happening is going to happen, and I think I'll be fine.  
   
 Q.   Any advice to Clint?  
DWIGHT HOWARD:   Just got to let him play.   Only thing I can tell him is just go out there and play as hard as he can.   I think for his first playoff run, I think he's done an excellent job of just going out there and just giving everything he's got.   He's been in the D‑League for the most of the year, and then for him to come out here and play with us and give the minutes that he's giving, just play hard, he's done an excellent job of playing defense and getting up on those guards and pressuring them and making them take tough shots.   I think he's playing great.   I'm real proud and happy of his growth as a player.  
   
 Q.   After watching the film, what was the biggest thing that stood out when you guys watched it?   
DWIGHT HOWARD:   I would say just the turnovers that we had.   You know, we had a lead in the game, and we kind of got stagnant on offense and stopped doing the things that we did to get the lead, which allowed them to get out and run and get some transition points, which was able to fuel their offense, and that's where we lost it right there.  
   
 Q.   You touched on this last night.   How relieved are you that (inaudible)?  
DWIGHT HOWARD:   Well, very relieved, but at the same time, everything happens for a reason, and I'm going to stay positive.   I wish I could have got out there and played last night, but there's a reason why it happened.   I may never find out until later in the series, but I'm just going to stay positive, and like I said, I'm not going to allow this situation to defeat me and my attitude towards our goal, which is to win a championship.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT