NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 14, 2014
Dwight Howard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Anthony Davis, 20 years old second year in the league.   How special is this kid?
DWIGHT HOWARD:   I think he's great.   He's been having an amazing season so far.   He helps the team get better, he wants to make the team better, and he's humble.   I like that about him.   He's always working hard when he steps on the floor.   He's just playing with a lot of confidence right now.

Q.   The ride's just starting.   What kind of advice would you give him?
DWIGHT HOWARD:   Stay humble.   Continue to work hard, lead your team, and just find ways to win. 

Q.   With James making his first All‑Star start, are there things about that experience that you would be able to tell him, it's different from what he's done before, when you're one of the starters in the game?
DWIGHT HOWARD:   I would say it's fun.   It's great to be a starter.   But the game is fun.   Just tell him to go and have fun.   Don't worry about anything. 

Q.   They try and get guys from the same team together.   Would you like to see that?
DWIGHT HOWARD:   We talked about it.   We talked about it before. 
The main thing is that we go out there and have fun, play hard and win. 

Q.   You've been around a lot of celebrities in your life, so much fanfare with this, whose the biggest celebrity you've ever met in your life?
DWIGHT HOWARD:   Biggest celebrity?   Wow, that's a good question.   Denzel Washington.   I would say him.   He's one of my favorite actors of all time. 
I was very excited when I met him.   A very cool guy.   So I was star struck.   That's the first time I ever been star struck.   The only guy I ever wanted to meet besides Denzel was Wilt Chamberlain and I never had a chance to meet him. 

Q.   Your expectations about the All‑Star Game being in your first year in Houston?
DWIGHT HOWARD:   We want to win.   We want to go out there and have a great time and win the game.   That's the most important thing of all. 

Q.   There's a lot of build‑up with the partnership with you and James and people wanting to know how that combination was going to work.   How has it worked in your mind and what if anything has surprised you about James Harden the player and how he combines with your game?
DWIGHT HOWARD:   I think it's going great.   We're going to continue to get better.   We're still learning ways that we can make each other better.   And once we do that, it's going to be easier for the rest of the team.   We talk a lot.   We watch film together.   And the second half of the season we will be working out together just me and him.   So we're looking forward to doing that kind of stuff.   It's been great.   He's getting better every day.   He's finding me in the right spots, making sure I hit his man in the open court so he can just break free and get to the basket.   So it's a lot of things that we're working on to make each other better.





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT