NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 24, 2012
Dwight Howard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about the way the team is playing right now.   
DWIGHT HOWARD:   I think we're playing great basketball.   We're third in the East, third best record in the NBA, and we haven't hit our peak yet.   That says a lot about our team and about the growth of the team despite everything that's been going around.   We've been able to stay focused on what we need to do, and we're only going to get better.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
DWIGHT HOWARD:   I think we've got an opportunity, just like every other team in the NBA, to win a championship.   We just have to stay together, stay focused and go to work for the rest of the season.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
DWIGHT HOWARD:   When I first got here, everything was new, so it was perfect for me.   But just to see progress and what we've been through as a city and as a team, it's great, great to be here, great to be a part of it, and it is a reward for our city to have an All‑Star Game here.   Like I said, a lot of businesses and people just get opportunities to show off what they have.  
   
 Q.   Your teammates will also be showing off their skills.   Talk about what it means to have Jameer and Ryan also be part of the experience.   
DWIGHT HOWARD:   I'm happy for those guys.   Jameer, the last time he had an opportunity was in the All‑Star Game and he got hurt, so he didn't get a chance to participate.   You've got Ryan who's in the three‑point shootout.   It's going to be great.   The team has been talking about trying to get together and all of us watching and rooting for our guys.   And I think Ryan is going to win.   He's been shooting the ball great this year.   We're in Orlando.   He's going to do good.   
   
 Q.   Are you going to go for MVP?  
DWIGHT HOWARD:   I'm just going to go for the win.   That's it.   That's the only thing that matters.   
   
 Q.   Anybody that you're looking forward to playing with?  
DWIGHT HOWARD:   LeBron.   Yeah, LeBron, Dwyane Wade, Carmelo, Chris Bosh, all the guys.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT