NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v MAGIC
May 28, 2010
Dwight Howard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Celtics: 96
  Magic: 84

 Q. Dwight, can you talk about just the game in general? It seems like you guys had kind of a hard time establishing a rhythm and flow from the git-go, if you will. 
 DWIGHT HOWARD: Well, I just don't think we played the same basketball we played to get those two wins. We didn't come out and run. It's not about offense, but we didn't get back on defense. We didn't do all the little things that we did to win the two games that we did win. So just didn't happen. 

 Q. When you look back on the Series, was it the first go game that's got you guys playing from behind the entire Series or how do you look at it? 
 DWIGHT HOWARD: Well, you know, just look at it. The first quarter of every game turned out to be the deciding factor tonight they came out and they won the first quarter and they won the game. 
 The first three games, they won the first quarter, and they won those games. So they started good, and they finished the same way. So it's about how you start and how you finish, so they did a good job of that. 

 Q. There's been one goal all season to win a championship. When it ends like this, how tough is it to deal with and say goodbye to friends and stuff like that? 
 DWIGHT HOWARD: It's very tough but we've just got to learn from our mistakes. Next year we've got to have guys that are willing to give everything they've got to get wins. In games like this or a Series like this, it's not about skill or talent, because it's the Eastern Conference Championship. Both teams are talented and skilled. It's about who wants it the most and who is willing to do it for a Series. 
 Those guys played like they wanted to win the championship the whole Series. That's why they're in the position that they're in now. 

 Q. The stretch, you guys had gotten it to 13 at halftime. They came out and hit the three threes in a row. How tough was that for them to push it back to 20? 
 DWIGHT HOWARD: Well, they made a run, and we stopped playing our game. Everybody wanted to do it on their own. That's not what got us back to Game 6 -- this is Game 6. You know, just everybody wanted to do it by themselves. In a situation like this, you've got to keep fighting together. 
 They made their runs, and everybody started to hang their heads. I just was trying to do my part. I was telling the guys, you can't hang your heads. Even if we're down by 40 points, you just keep fighting. So that's what happened. 

 Q. When you go down 0-3, you have to pretty much be perfect. How much do you kind of kick yourself for going down 0-3 and allowing that to happen? 
 DWIGHT HOWARD: There's no need to kick ourselves. Kick ourselves in the foot, whatever you want to call it. We went down because we didn't play as hard as we could. That's what you have to look at it as. You have to play as hard as you can for as long as you can, and everybody didn't do that. Once you don't do it, you find yourself in a big hole like we did. Once you're playing a good team like Boston who had an up-and-down season, but they turned it on in the Playoffs, once you're playing a team that's hot like that a, you can't do that. 
 Only thing we can do is learn from our mistakes and just get ready for next season. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT