NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v MAGIC
May 23, 2010
Dwight Howard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How do you feel?   
 DWIGHT HOWARD: I feel good.   
  
  Q. How did practice go?   
 DWIGHT HOWARD: It was great.   
  
  Q. Dwight, you guys at this point are down 3-0. You got to believe -- you have to keep believing you can win the series still, right?   
 DWIGHT HOWARD: Yeah. We just have to win one game tomorrow and then bring the series back home, get a game there and come back here. It's doable. We have to all have to come out on the same page.   
  
  Q. This team is hardly recognizable, certainly last night, from what we saw all year long. What happened?   
 DWIGHT HOWARD: We have to continue to play basketball. We know we haven't been playing our best brand of basketball. We want to stick together and we're not going to let us being down 3-0 separate us, separate from the coaching staff or anything. We're going to continue to play,  
  
  Q. After the loss of last night, where did joking come from -- where did the happiness kind of come from today?   
 DWIGHT HOWARD: There's no need for us to be sad. We're playing the sport that we love. We're not going to come in here and change our attitude. It's easy to do it when you're winning and everything is going your way.   
 But we got to continue to be ourselves. There's no need for us to be down. There's no need for us to come in with attitudes and go at each other. We're not going to be the team that does it.   
  
  Q. What do you want to do to lead your team and encourage them --  
 DWIGHT HOWARD: We just got to play. I encourage these guys all the time, we just got to play. We know what we're up against. We're not focused on that. We're focused on winning the game tomorrow, coming out and not thinking so much, and just playing.   
  
  Q. The psychological aspect of this, the confidence, where is it at?   
 DWIGHT HOWARD: We're confident. Like I said, we know what we have to do. It's just on us to go and do it.   
  
  Q. Jeff Van Gundy last night during the broadcast made a comment along the effect can we skip Game 4? Hearing that stuff, is it tough to keep that out of your mind?   
 DWIGHT HOWARD: We don't care. We were overlooked all year. That doesn't change now. Doesn't matter what he says. He's the same guy who said we're going to get beat by Charlotte. It doesn't matter.   
  
  Q. You have been a resilient team all year long. You didn't lose a lot of back-to-back games, you never got blown out. Is the fact it's going this way a little alarming?   
 DWIGHT HOWARD: We have to continue to play. Things happen for a reason. We know the situation. We just have to stay together. We can't let this situation tear us apart. So there's no need for no separation or anything. We have to stay together.   
  
  Q. Many did not think it was possible to play you one up, straight up. How has Boston --  
 DWIGHT HOWARD: I just been missing shots. I don't think -- I don't worry so much about scoring and trying to prove that I can score. I've just been missing shots. I may have a good shot and just rush. I have to take my time and just play basketball.   
 I'm not worried about one-on-one, or however we play.   
  
  Q. When times are difficult or a challenge, where do you find inspiration?   
 DWIGHT HOWARD: I just keep playing. This is the game I love. We're going to have games that -- a playoff series where everything is not going in our favor. But I'm not going to give up on myself. I'm not going to give up on my team and my teammates. We worked so hard this off-season and last off-season and this summer and during the season to get to where we are today. We know what we have to do.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT