NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v MAGIC
May 21, 2010
Dwight Howard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Dwight, you know you guys have had a few days off since Game 2. Is it hard to keep the focus on winning Game 3 and not the task that you have in front of you?   
 DWIGHT HOWARD: No. You know, we know we have to go up there and win this first game. And from there it's about winning one game. We're not looking at it as being down 2-0. We just see the series as 0-0. We have to win this first game.   
  
  Q. Talk about the focus of the guys. Are you seeing what you want to see out of the guys focus-wise?   
 DWIGHT HOWARD: Yeah, everybody is focused. We've been focused the whole series. I think we really made an effort -- especially in these two days of practice -- of doing the things that cost us the game the first two times. That's the biggest thing.   
  
  Q. What are a couple of those things, without giving away too much, that you've been working on?   
 DWIGHT HOWARD: I'm not going to give it away. Transition. We have to get back. They had a lot of fast-break points. Loose balls, we have to get those.   
 It's all about effort and energy. They played harder than us the first game. The last game we played a little bit harder, but we just have to do more.   
  
  Q. Dwight, this is a very serious situation basketball-wise. Do you play better when you're happy and joyful or when you're under the gun like this game?   
 DWIGHT HOWARD: Under the gun like?   
  
  Q. Like a must-win game. That's where I'm going with that. Is it a must-win game? Do you want me to say never mind? Never mind.   
 DWIGHT HOWARD: Yeah. I mean, it's a game we have to win. I don't think we want to come into the game trying to be so serious that we can't play right. We just got to go play, have fun. It's basketball. The seriousness and all -- I need to look tough, that stuff doesn't work for me on the court. So why do it?   
  
  Q. This game coming up, everything you guys have worked for since last season, it's pretty much it now --  
 DWIGHT HOWARD: It's not it. What we have to do is just play basketball. There's no need to say this is it. Like Coach said and like I've been saying, don't think about going down fighting. Keep fighting. You want to win. You're not trying to go down fighting. Our object is not to go down and say we fought real hard. That's weak. We're fighting to win.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT