NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v MAGIC
May 19, 2010
Dwight Howard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Dwight, how do you guys avoid that gloomy feeling that everyone -- there's going to be a lot of gloom swirling around outside the team. How do people inside the team fight --
 DWIGHT HOWARD: Groomy? 

 Q. Gloomy. You know, doomsday. What can we possibly do? That kind of feeling. 
 DWIGHT HOWARD: I don't think anybody on that team has that feeling. 

 Q. Nobody on the team?
 DWIGHT HOWARD: I don't have that feeling either. 

 Q. What is the feeling right now for yourself and your teammates? 
 DWIGHT HOWARD: The feeling is great. We lost two winnable games. And I think that the difference is doing the little things. That's how they won the game. They did all the little things. 
 We know what we have to do, and we're going to do it. 

 Q. You feel like if you win one game, you kind of turn the series around? 
 DWIGHT HOWARD: Yes. You lose one game and you're down 3-0. You lose another one and you're down and the series is over with. Yeah. 

 Q. You know how big momentum is in the playoffs -- 
 DWIGHT HOWARD: It's one game at a time. Each game is different from the other game. Boston won the first game, I don't think they feel like they had the momentum, because Game 2 was going to be a lot different. And it was. We just have to come out and play. 

 Q. Stan was saying yesterday it's as simple as winning one game at this point. 
 DWIGHT HOWARD: That's it. You guys have been around long enough to know. That's the thing. You have to win a game. You win a game and then you win another game. You keep winning. We've been in this situation before. It's just going to show how well we bounce back from it. 

 Q. You said last night you're not going to let guys quit, right? 
 DWIGHT HOWARD: There's no need to quit. There's no need to say we're going down fighting because we're not going down. You just have to think positive. If you think negative, you're going to lose. Like I told the guys in the locker room, anybody has any doubt, we're not going to win. But if everybody is on the same page and everybody believes we're going to win this series, then we're going to win it. 

 Q. Did you guys talk today in the locker room as players amongst themselves? A team meeting? 
 DWIGHT HOWARD: The coach talked and wanted to know everything is so -- (Indiscernible) it wasn't a team meeting. There's nothing wrong with our team, so we don't have to have one of those meetings. We just had film and we talked. 

 Q. Do you feel more pressure? 
 DWIGHT HOWARD: There's no pressure. There's no pressure. We know what we have to do. Like I told those guys, last year we were in this situation, down 2-0 against the Lakers. Guys kind of just gave up. I don't see that in this team this year. We know what we have to do. We're still the same team. Nobody in the locker room has their head down complaining about last night. We moved on and we're going to try to get better. 

 Q. When you told guys that, were they receptive to it? 
 DWIGHT HOWARD: Yeah. Yeah. 

 Q. You got agreement? 
 DWIGHT HOWARD: Yeah,they agree. Everybody is ready to go. 

 Q. When you won three out of four from these guys, are they playing that much better, them, than they were this year? 
 DWIGHT HOWARD: They are doing all the little things to win. Effort. Getting back in -- getting back on transition. All the little things is what win games. And we have to do that. 

 Q. Seemed like you had the effort last night. What was the difference? What was missing? 
 DWIGHT HOWARD: We didn't win. The little things. You have to do the little things in this kind of series. It's not going to be who scores the most points, but who does the little things; who is going to get back on defense, who is going to get those loose balls, who is going to get the long rebounds. Those things. Not just the X's and O's, who is having a good night or who is not playing good. It's all the little things. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT