NBA FINALS: MAGIC v LAKERS
June 11, 2009
Dwight Howard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Los Angeles Lakers - 99
  Orlando Magic - 91

Post-Game Interview With:

DWIGHT HOWARD

 Q. You were up by three, 11 seconds left before Derek Fisher hits that three-pointer. Going back, would you have fouled somebody on the inbounds play and put them at the line in retrospect?
 DWIGHT HOWARD: I don't know, he just made a shot. There was nothing we could do about that. We had chances to win it, but he hit a tough shot. We tried to take that away, but he made a tough shot. 

 Q. You talked earlier about not turning over the ball and drumming that into your heads about holding onto the ball, making sure you treasure every possession. Where was the breakdown?
 DWIGHT HOWARD: I think we just rushed a little bit. We had opportunities, but we rushed. There's nothing we can do about it now. Go home, talk about it and try to come back Sunday and get a win. 

 Q. Just take me through those two free throws, 11.1 seconds left. 
 DWIGHT HOWARD: I just missed them. I've been working on my free throws. They just weren't falling tonight. There's no need to get down on myself. I think I did a lot of good things tonight, just free throws weren't there. Not just for me but for everybody. We missed a lot of key free throws. 
 We can't hang our heads. We still believe. There's no reason to have any doubts right now. We know the position that we're in, but we're not going to stop fighting.

 Q. What did you tell guys after the game?
 DWIGHT HOWARD: Just don't stop fighting. Never stop believing. There's no need to ever doubt yourself or your game. There's going to be games and times in our lives where we lose, where we have to bounce back. So I think guys are upset about the loss because it was right there, we had the win, but there's no need to hang our heads.

 Q. You guys have played four games and they're as unique as when you're winning, it doesn't really seem like you've been in control and you guys have shot the NBA Finals 62 percent but the Lakers were right there. Going into an elimination game, what do you take from these four games and how do you apply it to making sure you can keep this thing going?
 DWIGHT HOWARD: You know, this is The Finals. Both teams are good teams. The first game was a blowout. But other than that, you know, every game has been close. There's not going to be any games, especially now, that are going to be decided in the first quarter or whatever. Everything is going to come down to the fourth quarter. We've just got to continue to treasure the ball, try not to turn it over as much, and we're looking forward to Game 5. 

 Q. Tell me, you guys have had your backs against the wall in pretty much every series you've been in and turned around and played some of your best ball. 
 DWIGHT HOWARD: Well, like I said, there's no need for us to hold our heads down. We were always fighting and will believe until there's no more games to be played. We've been in some tough situations, but as a team we've always found a way to come back and we've got to cherish this moment. I know Coach is a little angry tonight about the outcome of the game, just like we all are. But when we get up tomorrow, the sun is going to come out, and we'll get ready for Game 5. 

 Q. Can you talk about the nine blocks that you had. And also can you talk about losing two games in overtime? Do you feel like you're just as good as the Lakers are, you just haven't come through?
 DWIGHT HOWARD: Well, I think everybody sees that we're a good team. If we weren't a good team, we wouldn't be here in The Finals. It starts on defense. I try to be very aggressive blocking shots, rebounding, contesting them, making them take tough shots. That's what we've got to do. We've got to start on defense. We were right there tonight, just we let it slip away in overtime. I won't stop believing, and neither will my teammates. 

 Q. The team had I think 17 turnovers. You had seven of them. The Lakers, they do a good job with the doubles in terms of where they're coming from, who's coming, when it's coming. The way they're doubling you, has that been a reason for the turnovers? 
 DWIGHT HOWARD: Well, tonight I think four of my turnovers came off either offensive fouls or three seconds. When they do double, just got to pass it out. But I've only turned the ball over once or twice tonight from them double-teaming. 
 I think the biggest thing is trying not to get as many three seconds, offensive fouls, but they've been doing a pretty good job doubling me. Just got to trust my teammates a little bit more, as soon as I get it, read the defense and make the right play. 

 Q. You had a dominant night with the blocks, the rebounds, but are you still a bit frustrated about the amount of balls and touches you get on offense?
 DWIGHT HOWARD: No, I'm not frustrated. There's going to be times where just like anything, I miss my teammates, they miss me. It doesn't matter. Like I told the guys earlier, it's all about defense. If I go out there and play good defense, it leaves my team a good opportunity to win games. You know, I'm going to have nights where I don't get a lot of touches, but my defense has to be there every night. 

 Q. Coach thought the turning point of the game was Kobe getting the rebound from your hand, Phil Jackson thought that was the turning point of the game. 
 DWIGHT HOWARD: I thought the turning point of the game was Fisher's three. That's my opinion. He hit a three that got them right there. So I don't think it was Kobe getting the rebound. They made some tough shots. Fisher made, I think, the shot that gave the momentum, and we missed shots. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT