NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: LAKERS VS. NUGGETS
September 25, 2020
Dwight Howard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Wondering if there's anything different that you focus on with this group of starters when you're in there with LeBron and AD, specifically in the front court, and how that might apply to the matchup with Jokic in this specific series.
DWIGHT HOWARD:   Well, just try to go in and be a star in my role, play great defense, get as many rebounds as I can, control the paint, and make sure to take pressure off the rest of the guys on the floor on the defensive end by just being active, communicating, and making sure we get a stop every time down, or force them to one shot.
Q. Anything specifically about Jokic and the challenge that he presents?
DWIGHT HOWARD:   Well, you know, he's a great passer.  He's a very smart guy on the floor, so you just have to use your intelligence against him and just knowing where he likes to get to on the floor, just make it difficult for him to score over the top.
Q. I'm sure there were times in your career when you were the focal point of your team's offense where there was an opposing player whose part of their strategy was to be an agitator when defending you.  Did you draw on any of those experiences and apply that to the role that you're playing now in this series?
DWIGHT HOWARD:   Not at all.  Just going out there and doing my job, working hard.  That's it.
Q. Going big picture a little bit, when you consider your history with this franchise and the fan base and the journey you've been on the last eight years, what does it mean to you to be playing the role you're playing and being such a pivotal piece of getting this franchise within a game of the Finals?
DWIGHT HOWARD:   Nothing in the past matters anymore.  It's all about this moment and just doing whatever it takes to win.
Q. Obviously, you had a very impactful first half; it looked like there was a moment in the fourth quarter when Markieff fouled out that you looked like you might be ready to sub in.  How did you respond to that moment not getting in the game in a critical moment, and where are you kind of sitting with that today?
DWIGHT HOWARD:   We won the game, and that's the only thing that matters.
Q. The first eight minutes or so in the first quarter, it seemed like your energy was even, I think, at a different level than typical.  Do you think any of that had to do with the news that you were going to start?  Was that something that you decided, like I need to come out and really make myself felt in this game, and how did you balance that energy with trying not to foul?
DWIGHT HOWARD:   Just like I said earlier, just using your intelligence against a guy like Joker.  Obviously the way he plays is different from what us bigs have been accustomed to in the past, so playing without fouling, playing without being too physical and aggressive at times, especially early in the game, was key.  Also knowing that early in the game he doesn't want to pick up quick fouls, so just being aggressive on the offensive glass and just trying to get every rebound.  So it doesn't matter if I start or come off the bench, if I play five minutes, I'm always going to have high energy and give this team any boost I can, even if I'm sitting on the bench.
Q. Obviously you guys know about Denver's history with the 3-1 leads and how dangerous they've been in that position.  What's sort of your mentality and what do you think the team mentality is approaching this Game 5?
DWIGHT HOWARD:   Simple:  The job is not finished.
Q. Anything that you have discussed about sort of making sure that you finish the job?
DWIGHT HOWARD:   Go out there and dominate, from first quarter to fourth quarter.  Don't worry about the refs, don't worry about missed shots, just go out there and do what we do best, play Laker basketball and get a good win.
Q. We've been talking to some of the other guys about everyone's disappointment with the news from the Breonna Taylor case a couple of days ago.  A lot of guys have talked specifically about Rondo being from Louisville and how this adds kind of an added layer of difficulty for him because of that connection.  I was just wondering what kinds of conversations you and he have had about the challenge of sort of both being here and also wanting to be there for your community in a time like this?
DWIGHT HOWARD:   Well, you know, we've had a lot of discussions about certain things, and I would rather keep that between me and him.
What I will say is, for all of us, we have to protect our kids, protect our women and protect our energy right now.  It's a big key for us is keeping our energy positive, with a lot of negativity that's going around our world right now.  It's easy to fall into that trap of being negative, but we've got to stay positive, stay unified and really protect our women.
Q. There's always kind of the saying on closing out a series it's the toughest one to get at the end.  Just your experience of being in the postseason for so many years, what are some of those challenges in those final games and some of the challenges you think you'll face against Denver?
DWIGHT HOWARD:   They're going to give us their best shot.  They're not going to let up.  They're a really good team, very well-coached.  We understand that.  We're one step closer to our dream, so we're not going to take our foot off the gas.  I think we're going to bring more intensity than we brought before.  We have a well-experienced group of guys on our team, even coaches.  We understand how important this series is and this game is and that we should treat it like a Game 7 with our intensity and our effort, and just play as hard as we can.
Q. Obviously you guys are one game away from getting to The Finals, but you haven't been to The Finals for 11 years, the Lakers as an organization for 10 years.  How important is it now that you think back to just relish these moments because you never know when it may come again?
DWIGHT HOWARD:   Well, just stay in this moment.  You can't look back, can't look forward.  We can only stay in this moment right here that we have.  We're going to take advantage of the moment.  That's all I can tell you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT