NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: MAGIC v CAVALIERS
May 25, 2009
Dwight Howard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Mo guaranteed a Cavaliers win in this series a little while ago.   
 DWIGHT HOWARD: Yeah, well, we can't focus on what other guys are saying. You know, we just got to go out there and play.  
  
  Q. Is it hard to stay hungry after a big win?   
 DWIGHT HOWARD: It is not hard to stay hungry. Right now -- right now we are so close to our goal. The only thing on our mind is reaching that goal we want to accomplish so bad. That's what motivates us, is that goal that everybody wants, which is to win a championship; and we have a great chance of doing it. So we're hungry.  
  
  Q. Do you feel you got them on the ropes a little bit and you can hit them one more time?   
 DWIGHT HOWARD: We just got to come out and play. We can't focus on what the series is right now. We have to come out and treat it like it is a Game 7. It is do or die. Can't look at it as is it 2-1 and we can have them on the ropes.  
  
  Q. There is a lot of talk about a Kobe-LeBron final. Does that bother you guys a little bit?   
 DWIGHT HOWARD: The talk?   
  
  Q. Yeah, the talk.   
 DWIGHT HOWARD: Yeah, we want to win a championship. We don't want the championship to be handed to somebody. So we go out every night and show everybody that we believe we can win.  
  
  Q. What do you think when you hear the Kobe-LeBron commercials running? What do you think when you see the commercials on T.V.?  
 DWIGHT HOWARD: I like the commercials. They're funny. They are commercials that are very entertaining. So I love watching them. It is very entertaining.  
 But our job is to go out there and play and not worry about what's on T.V. or in the paper or whatever. We just got to go out there and do that.  
  
  Q. Was it disrespectful last night (indiscernible)?  
 DWIGHT HOWARD: It is disrespectful when everybody is counting us out trying to win a championship. They can beat the Magic and Denver. They want to see Kobe and LeBron go at it.  
  
  Q. Do they expect them to come at you tomorrow with the same intensity? And what do you think your 14-19 says about that strategy?   
 DWIGHT HOWARD: Well, I just got to get up there and make my free throws. I know they are going to foul me. I just have to be prepared for it and go out there and make them.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).   
 DWIGHT HOWARD: I don't think it is a tough spot for him. We've been in a lot of different situations. He's played where he started a couple games and I have been out, and he knows how to play. So he can get out there and do the job just as well as everybody else. We have full confidence in him. We know he can get the job done.  
  
  Q. Have you watched him develop over the course of the season and worked out in practice?   
 DWIGHT HOWARD: He's done better. That's what it is going to take to win. Everybody has to be willing to work. So when game time comes, everybody is ready.  
  
  Q. Have you been able to enjoy this?   
 DWIGHT HOWARD: We are focused. Nobody is talking about the win from last night. Our mind-set is coming in tomorrow and getting another game.  
  
  Q. Is this developing into one of those big rivalries? I mean, there is a lot of talk last night, they said that A.J.'s elbow was a cheap shot.   
 DWIGHT HOWARD: There is no rivalry. We go out there and try to win basketball. There are only four teams left. So, you know, everybody is out there fighting.   
 We don't want to go home, neither do they. Everybody wants to play.  
  
  Q. After all the injuries Anthony's had this year, what does that feel like as a teammate?   
 DWIGHT HOWARD: Anthony can play. We're just happy to see him out there playing. He is not scared of anything, and he is playing 100 percent so I'm happy for him.  
  
  Q. He is kind of a soft-spoken guy.   
 DWIGHT HOWARD: Soft-spoken? That's my Mickael Pietrus.   
  
  Q. How is he around you guys?   
 DWIGHT HOWARD: He is not soft-spoken. He might not talk in front of you guys.   
  
  Q. It seemed like you had to bite your tongue, you had to turn away. How challenging is this series for you? Because they were taking some pretty good whacks at you.   
 DWIGHT HOWARD: It is not challenging. It is frustrating sometimes when you get hit. But I got to try to keep my cool and go to the next play. Getting too close to getting a technical foul, so got to find a way to keep my composure.   
  
  Q. Were they wolfing at you or --  
 DWIGHT HOWARD: No comment.   
  
  Q. You still got one check to play with.   
 DWIGHT HOWARD: No, I don't. I can't get any more. I have to keep my elbows down, my mouth shut. I'm thinking about duct taping my mouth tomorrow before the game. So that might be a good thing. I might have to duct tape my mouth and put some elbow pads on just in case my elbows fly. I will try to keep those down, too.  
  
  Q. If you duct tape your mouth, you can't sing at the free-throw line.   
 DWIGHT HOWARD: Yes, I can. I can sing in my head. I won't sing to the refs.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about the commercials with LeBron and Kobe (indiscernible)?  
 DWIGHT HOWARD: Carmelo? Carmelo is focusing on winning. I'm pretty sure he is not worried about the commercials.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT