NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 13, 2009
Dwight Howard
John Kuester
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		   THE MODERATOR: Why don't we start with each of you talking about your experience tonight in this game for both of you. 
 DWIGHT HOWARD: Oh, man, I had a lot of fun. Just thank everybody who was involved and let me be able to coach the Rookie-Sophomore Game. It was a celebrity experience and it is one I will never forget. It was a lot of fun. 
 Watching some of those young guys really go out there and play, Kevin Durant, he had an awesome night. It was just fun to watch those guys play. 
 JOHN KUESTER: I will tell you, it is interesting now, I'm always around this guy for a year -- I was around him that year and I watched him and I watched him grow as a person. He did a fantastic job talking to the players before the game, discussing what it took to become a pro, what it is to go out and compete. 
 And I really felt that I wish I could say I had a lot to do with it, but I think it is really Dwight's approach to the young players on how he really made them understand what it was supposed to be about, being professional. It was fun to listen to him speak. There is only one issue I had with him. I stood up one time to congratulate our team on a nice play and I took his best shot.
 DWIGHT HOWARD: It wasn't the best, but it was a good shot.
 JOHN KUESTER: It was a good shot right in the head. He just went, yeah, and I felt that open hand. It was a great experience for us, but I couldn't have had a better co-head coach than Dwight tonight.
 DWIGHT HOWARD: Thanks, Coach. You are going to make me cry.
 JOHN KUESTER: I was hoping I would get you.

 Q. Who coached the team? Dwight got all the TV time. 
 JOHN KUESTER: I'm telling you right now, he did a great job. He had the players playing at a high level and I felt like I was with Mike Brown, him motivating players to defend. 
 It was really a fun experience because I felt the game -- the guys were trying. I thought they really got after it. 
 I know Kevin had a phenomenal game. There were a number of guys that really contributed and did a good job.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT