NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 13, 2009
Dwight Howard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about the competition in the Eastern Conference.  
 DWIGHT HOWARD: Boston gives us the most problems. Boston and Detroit are probably the two toughest teams and Cleveland has Lebron James. You don't want him to get going on the floor. Those are three of the toughest teams in the NBA.  
  
  Q. The question that everybody is asking, who is the MVP, Kobe, Lebron?   
 DWIGHT HOWARD: Right now, I would say the midseason MVP would have to go to Lebron. I think they have only lost one game at home, one game. They could take the home court and the big reason is because of him. He has everybody playing defense and has got everybody involved in the offense. He is putting up big numbers.  
  
  Q. How is the experience for you guys, now you play against each other, you are competing for everything, for MVP, for rings, for all that, but you are friends.   
 DWIGHT HOWARD: It is like a band of brothers. It is something we will never forget. It is like us fighting against the world. It took all of us to come together to realize it is not about who we are with our NBA teams but what we represent, a nation.   
 We wanted to show America and everybody that we will be back on top with basketball and we did a great job every time we stepped on the floor. It is not about ourselves but it is about the people at home watching, our families, our friends, the cities we play for. It is all for those guys.  
  
  Q. The next big center who is going to have the responsibility in the league in that terms, before Shaquille O'Neal, he was the biggest center in the world. Now it seems like it is your turn. How do you feel about it?  
 DWIGHT HOWARD: Like I said earlier, I will let you decide about who's the biggest center or whatever, all that stuff. We go out and have fun every night and try to get better. At the end of my career I want to be one of the best players and that's my goal right there and give my teammates the championship.   
 I want a championship for Patrick Ewing. He has a lot of chances to win, but he has never been able to have one. He is my coach now. He is one of the reasons why I enjoy playing basketball is because of him. I really want to try to get a championship for him.  
  
  Q. Is he a tough coach?   
 DWIGHT HOWARD: No, he is pretty fun. He is a cool guy, laid back, ready to take his time to coach me. It is an honor because he could be in the Bahamas or just somewhere resting. For him to come back and coach me, I take that as an honor.  
  
  Q. I'm working on a story about how helpful is a three-point catch and to open up space for you?   
 DWIGHT HOWARD: They shoot the ball so well, it is hard to double-team. Rashard and Hedo are going to knock down those shots. It is really tough to try to want to double-team and leave two great shooters open. I enjoy playing with Rashard. Best teammates I have ever had. I just enjoy it.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT