PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY SEEPUERTORICO.COM
March 8, 2013
Steve LeBrun
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What was going well for you out there today?
STEVE LeBRUN:   My putting has been good both days putted good.   Didn't really hit it all that great.   I got lucky a few times, hit a couple of bad tee shots, and they worked out.   They were good enough where I could get a club on them and still hit it up near the green or on the green.   I made birdie with hundred of them actually.   Putting, though, is keeping me in it right now.

Q.   Did you feel lucky about the weather this afternoon?   Didn't seem like the wind really got up like it did yesterday. 
STEVE LeBRUN:   Yeah.   It only blew in the morning, or in the afternoon early in our round, and then yeah, it started calming down.   But we stepped up on 18 tee, and somehow it switched into us for the two minutes that we were all on the tee, and then as soon as we got on the fairway it went back down again and it started picking up.   But yeah, we got lucky with the weather for sure.

Q.   I mean overall, your position, you gotta be happy where you're at.   What are your thoughts on going into tomorrow?
STEVE LeBRUN:   Yeah.   No, definitely.   In a good position is where you want to be.   You want to have a chance.   Still two rounds left, but it's nice to be in position to have a chance. 
I haven't done much all year, and I feel like I'm playing good.   But I got on some greens that I know, Bermuda greens.   I mean I'm from South Florida.   It's what I putted on my whole life.   And you know, I've made some.   Hopefully I can keep making them.

Q.   Talk about your year so far.   You said you've been hitting it well. 
STEVE LeBRUN:   Yeah.   I'm hitting it fine.   You know, it's just one of those things.   I haven't felt nervous or anything like that as a rookie.   I haven't felt nervous with all the people around or anything like that.   It's just knowing all these courses, and first time playing all those courses out west, and I just struggled on the greens.   I mean I hit ‑‑ I lipped out, lipped out putts the whole time. 
I hit the ball fine.   Didn't hit it great by any means, but hit the ball good enough where, you know, a putt here or there I make just about every cut.   Instead, I miss every one by one, two, three shots.   And that's only a putt here and there.   I mean that's all it is.
And you know, maybe it got to a point where I knew I was under the gun here, I'm only going to get maybe a couple of starts before the next reshuffle, and now maybe I'm ready to play.

Q.   Did you get frustrated on the West Coast at all, but did you always have an eye on getting back to Florida?
STEVE LeBRUN:   Yeah.   But the problem is, if I didn't play good, I wasn't going to get ‑‑ like I missed Honda, my home course.   Like I'm a member at PGA National.   I mean I've been there, I've played that course so many times.   I'm from that area, and not to get in that event, like I said earlier in the year, that's my fifth major.   I mean the people that would have been out there for me that have been supporting my whole career and to not get in, it's a shame.   It's a shame I didn't get in. 
So yeah, I was starting to fret because I knew how close ‑‑ but it wasn't affecting my game.   I was still playing fine.   Like Riviera, I missed the cut by one shot, and again, it's two 5‑footers on the back nine, you make them and you're in and you're close to the lead if you make the cut that week.   Nobody was running away with it.
So yeah, there was some frustration, of course, because I knew that I had to play good to stay up high for the reshuffle and I haven't done anything.   So definitely some nervous energy out there.   But I tried to stay as positive as I can.   My family was out with me, and it's always good to have them, kept you sort of in balance.   You got two kids when you get back from the golf course and it makes you forget about the golf for a little bit.
So you know, frustrated a little, but ready to go now.   Have been ready to go. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT