NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HURRICANES v PENGUINS
May 17, 2009
Jordan Staal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Is it fun to play against your brother this year?   
 JORDAN STAAL: Well, it's exciting. To make it this far and now to face-off against your brother, it's really neat.   
  
  Q. He was talking about the playoffs yesterday, and he said you hit puberty at 12. But you have to wait until 20 to be in the NHL?  
 JORDAN STAAL: That's right. I'm one step ahead of him, for sure.   
  
  Q. Is there any competitive areas that you guys work on as brothers forever?   
 JORDAN STAAL: It's been like that for a while now. We're all really competitive in any sport or in anything. If we're playing board games or volleyball or hockey, doesn't really matter. We're all really competitive, and it makes it that much more fun.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible) I don't think it would come to that, but do you expect things to get he pretty tight if you're getting charged for defending him much of this series and things start getting tight?   
 JORDAN STAAL: Yeah, I'm sure. We both don't want to lose and we're both really competitive. So I'm sure the fire could heat up a little bit and things could escalate. That's part of hockey, and I'm sure we'll both still be brothers after.  
  
  Q. How do these guys differ from the Capitals?   
 JORDAN STAAL: I think they're much the same. I mean, you know, their speed up front and the fire power they have up front, you know.   
 Just the way I think they do a better job of playing well in our end or in the offensive teams end. They do a great job cycling to get the puck to the net.  
  
  Q. Have you talked to Eric since you realized you guys were going to play each other?   
 JORDAN STAAL: Yeah, I talked to him a couple of days ago. Kind of said, you know have fun, and that was about it. It was probably I didn't talk to him until the end of the series. And I think we both agreed that was the right way to do it.  
  
  Q. Is this a nightmare for your parents or are they just happy to be in the to have you both in the final?   
 JORDAN STAAL: It's obviously not a nightmare when both their sons are playing this far, and the farthest they can go till they can meet each other.   
 They're excited about that, and I don't think it would change anything.  
  
  Q. When you play against Marc, him being a defenseman, does the dynamic change now that you're playing center? Does that change for you?   
 JORDAN STAAL: Like I said before, it doesn't really change when I'm playing against my brother. A game is a game. I don't really feel that much different once I'm out there and once we get playing. So I don't think it really changes.   
  
  Q. What is your (indiscernible)?  
 JORDAN STAAL: I don't know, you would probably know better than I would. I think we've been pretty tight as of late.   
  
  Q. Do you owe him for anything or does he owe you for anything growing up or since you got in the league or Christmas dinner?   
 JORDAN STAAL: Not really. We're pretty even keel right now. We're obviously the one that loses is obviously going to want to get back at him sooner.  
  
  Q. Do you think you'll beat the Sutter brothers?  
 JORDAN STAAL: I don't know what do you think?   
  
  Q. I think you need a couple more.   
 JORDAN STAAL: There's still Jared. It's still early. What the Sutter brothers did and accomplished we're nowhere near. It's obviously something that we're still proud of what we've accomplished as a family. Ask it's something that we still want to get better.  
  
  Q. Do you guys look at the big picture and say it's so hard for one person to make it into the NHL, let alone to have all of the brothers.   
 JORDAN STAAL: Yeah, it's hard to kind of take it all in, I think. I think to a certain point I don't think either one of us realized neither one of us was going to make it. So for three of us to make it so far, it's an unbelievable feat and it's something really special.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT