ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 12, 2016
Steve Addazio
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








COACH ADDAZIO: It's good to have a bye week here.  Halfway through the season, with the injuries we sustained last week, gives us a chance to get rested.  Great Clemson team at home.  I thought we did some good things in that game.  We had some opportunities early.  Gave up some big plays early.  But I think we're playing one of the finest teams in the country.
From our early games that we played this season, while there's been some struggle, for sure, I feel like it's helped mature and develop our football team.  I'm looking for a great second half to the season.
That starts with Syracuse a week from Saturday.  So we're in the bye week to get a jump on that, work on fundamentals, but to get a head start on our game plan, to get healthy, reenergized, get ready for the second half, as I said.
With that, I'm happy to answer any questions.
Q. People have always talked about the advantage of having a bye week before playing Georgia Tech, the option offense.  Is it similar having the bye week before playing Syracuse with their new offense, the quick tempo passing game?
COACH ADDAZIO: I think it certainly helps you, for sure.  Anytime you play something that is different, it helps.  I think just the mere fact that you get to this time in the season, a lot of times you have suffered some injuries and you need to get back to full strength.  So I think between those two things, getting back to full strength, getting a jump-start on that, without a doubt helps you.
Q. You talked about doing some fundamentals in the off week.  How much time in the off week do you spend on fundamentals and how much do you spend actually putting in the Syracuse game plan early?
COACH ADDAZIO: Well, we're putting the Syracuse game plan in today.  We practiced today.  We're working on that every day.  We're also in the process in putting an emphasis on fundamentals.  Without a doubt, we're working on Syracuse today, tomorrow and Friday.  We're immediately on that.
Next week we have a major bite into everything.  Tomorrow is our Tuesday.  Friday is our Wednesday, so to speak.  That gives us a chance next week towards the end of the week (indiscernible) earlier in the week to make sure we're still super fresh and as fast as we can be going into that game.
Q. How happy are you with your pass defense this year?  There have been some really good performances and a couple of tough ones.  As you evaluate, how well are you guys doing in that area?
COACH ADDAZIO: Well, we've had an interesting schedule this year, to say the least, right?  We came out, first game, conference game, in Ireland against Georgia Tech.  Not an easy opener.  Had a great opportunity in that game to win.  Came back and played UMass.  Played some teams and beat them the way we're supposed to beat them.
In the process, we had to go on the road to Virginia Tech.  They have some older receivers there.  You don't need me to tell you that's an elite team.  We had to play them at their home field.  They have some big-time receivers in Hodges and Ford.  I thought the quarterback did a phenomenal job.  They really challenged us.  I thought we were in position a couple of times.  They just made some great athletic plays, then we were out of position.
Clemson game, we did a great job on defense, except for three plays.  One is a strike they throw down the field, just an incredible pass, an incredible catch.  Can't throw it up any better than that.  I don't think we're in terrible position.  But they made the great plays that great players make on us.
To answer your question, I think it's been up and down, not consistent probably enough, but certainly far more great-looking stuff than not.  That's kind of the nature of where we are right now.
Both sides of the ball we've done some things.  You look at it, we're going to be a good football team.  We've done some things where we're not consistent enough.  That's my responsibility, that's my job.  It's my job to make sure we're a more consistent football team.  That's what we're really working hard on.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT