ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 1, 2014
Steve Addazio
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


  STEVE ADDAZIO:   Well, obviously we have a bye week, and it's a much‑needed bye week.   We are pretty banged up at this point, so we can use this time off, and we're using it well to get healthy.   Came off of a tough loss versus Colorado State in the final seconds, minutes of the game, and was a very, very tough defeat for us, a game that we had‑‑ we were able to lead throughout the whole game and gave it up in the last minute, and those are always very, very difficult.  
    We have got to get our level of play much more consistent and not so peak and valley‑ish, and that's what we're working on, and continue to develop our team.   
    Obviously after the bye week we play NC State.   NC State is a very, very explosive team.   Their quarterback is playing exceptionally well, and they looked outstanding last week when they played Florida State, and I know they have another tough game this week, as well.   So we have a lot of preparation to do, a lot of work to do, and we're looking forward to getting back on the field.   
   
 Q.   Finishing up in the fourth quarter, obviously giving up a touchdown and a field goal in the last game, what can you say about what you're going to be doing in this off week to get the team ready and to make sure you have those finishes when you start off strong?   
    STEVE ADDAZIO:   Well, I mean, it comes with maturity, and it comes with leadership and your upper class, which is something that we've got a long way to go with.   But we've got to fix our field goal situation right now, and we're working hard at that this week.   We're going back to real fundamentals.   We're really evaluating trying to find exactly the tightest package we can be and that fits our personnel the best, so we're really continuing to tweak with that.   But this is the developmental process we're in at BC right now is learning how to close out a game like that, which we should have been able to do.   Give credit to Colorado State, they did, we didn't.   But we've got to work this week on all the little things that went into that game, not just the ending but the little things along the way that we could have done better to not make that ending have to be that way.  
   
 Q.   When you talk about working on all those little things, I know you addressed the field goal, what are some of those things that nagged after that game that you need to work on?  
    STEVE ADDAZIO:   Well, tackling popped its head again.   The week before in Pittsburgh we had a tackling problem.   We went back, we had two strong weeks, we tackled so much better.   Then last week we got dinged with a bunch of injuries again and we weren't able to be in pads again on Wednesday and sure enough, we don't tackle well.   It seems with our team we've got to be able to be in pads tackling but we've got to be a little healthier so that we can do it, and we really couldn't do it.   This bye week today tackling today each day we practice, and the only way to get better at tackling is to do it, so that's another piece of it.   And then we have too many mental mistakes on offense right now solve that efficient with our time on the field and our assignments and do a better job with that, and be more accurate in our adjustments that we have to make because we see a lot of changes in defenses when they play us.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell me a little bit about the way John hell man has been coming on really well?   Three straight games he scored two touchdowns, he had 128 yards.   How do you like the way that he's developed so far in what's still a young season?  
    STEVE ADDAZIO:   Well, he's a good young player.   He's going to have a great future here.   He's a big, strong, physical back that's got speed, and he's back there with another freshman, Marcus Outlow, that's really a big strong back with speed.   So I think you're seeing John just continue to grow each week, and I think much like our team, people hate to hear coaches say this, but we're traveling with 35 freshmen every game, and we're playing a ton of young guys.   
    You know, sometimes consistency is an issue, but when you get excited about young guys like John and you see their potential and their future, and you've got to be steady in the boat, keep grinding, keep working, and you know there are good things ahead with young players like that.  
   
 Q.   What are the toughest things for young running backs to adapt to in the college game?   
    STEVE ADDAZIO:   I think protection.   I think protection is a difficult thing for a young running back.   It's not something they're really accustomed to, and I think‑‑ we have a pretty sophisticated run game.   I mean, we run at people a lot of different ways, and so there's a lot of challenges for their fits, their tracks, their reads, their fits, so I think those are the two areas.   
   
 Q.   I notice in the stats this week that y'all are ranked sixth in the nation in rushing.   You've run the ball 262 times, but you haven't lost a fumble yet.   Can you talk about some of the things that you do to talk about and work on ball security?   
    STEVE ADDAZIO:   Well, every day, I mean, we work on ball security drills every day.   Our whole staff very aggressively coaches ball security.   Obviously when you're a running team the last thing you can do is put that ball on the ground.   You'll see our backs in stretch lines with their ball, doing all their warmup agility, stretching drills, and Coach Washington, Al Washington, our running back coach, is banging at that ball with a padded stick.   We're always stressing ball security, and we run the ball a lot and there's a high, high focus on it.   I think it's emphasis.   I think it's drill work, but I think it's emphasis, and obviously very, very important to us.   There's a reason for that, you know.   
   
 Q.   Tyler Murphy, can you talk about his development through the course of the season?   I know he's had some big games, but talk about his overall development as a quarterback for you.   
    STEVE ADDAZIO:   Well, he's really becoming an outstanding preparer.   He prepares really hard.   He's a great leader for our team in practice and in the game.   He's got a good command of the game.   He's asked to do a lot of things, drop back, play action, hand the ball off, shotgun, run read zones.   He's very active, and he's just done a great job of continuing to improve.   He threw for the most yards this past game that we've thrown for, and we're going to continue to grow in that area.   We'd obviously like to get to the point where we can rush for 250 and more and we can throw it for over 200, and that's really important to us.   We're really working hard this week on creating more balance and more throw balance with Tyler and matching our runs.   He's done a great job.   I'm real proud of the way he's responded and he continues to grow.  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT