ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 14, 2018
Steve Addazio
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We're joined by Boston College head coach Steve Addazio.   
COACH ADDAZIO: We're getting ready to play a very talented team and going down into a very tough venue traditionally for us and for a lot of people.  This is a talented team and motivated team.  We've got to put together a great plan, have a high level of execution.  That's what we're working on right now.  And certainly happy to answer anybody's questions.   
 Q.  Just what can you say about building through this team, the depth of this team, with what's happened with Anthony Brown and A.J. Dillon and some other guys this season and while you've been there in general.  Just what you can say about the next man stepping up and some of those guys in those key positions as you move forward.  
COACH ADDAZIO: You go through periods of time where you can have a lot of good fortune with injuries and other times where it seems like you don't have as much good fortune.  I think it's just luck of the draw.  But you've got to recruit and prepare to handle all these different curveballs that come your way.  And some are harder than others.  But I think that speaks to the depth that you have and the recruiting that you've done and the development that you've done.   
So we feel like we've had a chance to do that.  So obviously no one wants to lose their starting quarterback or have their starting tailback be out or diminished, especially when they're potentially elite players.   
But everyone deals with that.  So we dealt with it last year and overcame it.  We're dealing with it this year and we'll continue to do that as well, and put together a great plan and keep marching forward and get ready for this game.   
 Q.  As far as just seeing where Boston College has come while you've been there, you've worked diligently to make this program a program that can go to a bowl game season after season and then build upon that and just increase.  This year you've had a lot of success.  Just what you can say about staying the course and just what your coaching staff and what your players have shown you this season.  
COACH ADDAZIO: There's a great chemistry here amongst our team and our players and our coaches.  I'll call it chemistry but really it's a love.  We love our players.  And I think the players love our coaches.  And we've been in this thing together.  And we've built it together.  And it's been a process.   
And I think it's very, very rewarding from the standpoint that you come to work every day and I couldn't imagine being around a better group of guys that I'm around every day.  They love football.  They love to practice.  It's the best practice team we've had.   
So I think that's all part of it.  I think you're trying to build an environment of trust, of love and care.  And, of course, you're recruiting for talent.  But I think when you put those other pieces in there, everyone's fighting for each other.  And I think it makes a great environment for your program to continue to grow.   
And I think it helps in your recruiting because when you bring recruits on campus and they feel the relationship that's there, I think it goes a long way in recruiting.   
And I also think that from the standpoint of just development, we don't -- we're not getting four- and five-star players all the time here.  We've got to bring guys in here that believe in what Boston College is about, believe in the academic mission, believe in the university and are good football players that can develop and grow.   
That's been the model that's worked here for a long time.  We base it on three things, not to drivel on on you, but it's toughness, character and faith.  Those are three things that make us we feel a little bit different than the average bear.  That's our edge.  That's our motto.  So we try to recruit to that and be who we are and embrace that.   
 Q.  What do you like most about your defense in these last, say, four games?  
COACH ADDAZIO: I think we've seen great improvement in our defense in the last four games.  And I think someone mentioned earlier, but I think as you go through the season you kind of get a better handle on who you are and try to play to who you are.  And I think we're very comfortable in what we're doing right now.  And I think therefore we're playing more confidently and more aggressively, and I think we've found our rhythm a little bit.   
And so the mixture of playing man and zone, pressure and no pressure, and then the right combinations of guys on the field.  I think those always kind of all go hand in hand.  So we feel good about that.   
 Q.  On the other side of the ball, do you have an update on Brown and Dillon?  And how do you kind of play to who you are with this bunch of guys on the offensive side right now?  
COACH ADDAZIO: Yeah, I felt like we had a great rhythm going on offense.  Obviously we got distorted this year from the fourth game.  A.J. got hurt, and he's tried to piece it back each week, which has been very, very difficult on him.  He hasn't really ever practiced once during the week.   
And so I think it's hard with your fundamentals and things and just the reads and the fits.  But he's a courageous guy that's given us everything he's had.   
So to answer your next question, Anthony Brown is doing great.  Had a great day of practice today and looks terrific.   
And A.J. took his first day -- well, actually his second day.  He practiced yesterday as well in full pads but really practiced full today, which is the first time he's been able to do that since he's been injured.  So those are all positive things.  He's not completely healed yet.  But we'll take the improvement and the opportunity to get him back on the practice field.   
And I think Anthony has really come a long way from the diaphragm injury that he had.  And a tough guy and I thought he looked really, really good today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT