ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 31, 2018
Steve Addazio
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








STEVE ADDAZIO: We've had a good week of practice and we need to.  We're heading into one of the toughest places to play a college football game down at Lane Stadium and Virginia Tech.  I've got tremendous respect for, obviously, Coach Fuente, Coach Foster, their whole program.
This is a good football team that's well-coached and tough.  It's very, very difficult in this environment to be a visiting team, so we are preparing as hard as we can this week, realizing how tough a physical contest this will be against a very good program, a hungry program, and we're focused very, very heavy right now on the finish of our preparation and getting down there and having an opportunity to go in and compete.
Happy to answer any questions.
Q. Talking about preparation for Virginia Tech, they don't have Josh Jackson.  They have the kid that transferred from Kansas, what do you see from him?
STEVE ADDAZIO: Talented guy.  Throws it well.  Runs it.  Leads the offense and they have got a bunch of good players on their offense.  Done a great job of staying explosive, and so we have struggled in our past against this offense, and certainly know the challenge that we are facing right now.
Q. And how difficult is it to play in Blacksburg, that environment?  How difficult is it for your team to zone out of that noise?
STEVE ADDAZIO: It's a very tough place to play.  I've been going down there since I was an assistant at Syracuse in the middle 90s, and I've got great respect for how difficult it is to play there and what a tremendous home-field advantage that they have.
So we're working hard at that.  It's hard to assimilate exactly what it's going to be like, but we're working hard at that.  Just the whole mentality of having to get on the road and play in that environment against such a quality team as this.
You know, as the old adage goes, you've got to pack your defense on the road, you've got to pack your run game.  You've got to be physically and mentally tough.  You've got to withstand it.  It's not easy, so we are working hard at that task.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT