ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 24, 2018
Steve Addazio
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We are now joined by Boston College head coach Steve Addazio.
Coach, please give us an opening statement, then we'll take questions.
STEVE ADDAZIO: Well, we have a great game coming in here, a Red Bandana game against Miami here at Alumni Friday evening.  Obviously the whole community of Boston College is excited about this game.
Really good football team.  Really well-coached football team.  Mark Richt is obviously one of the great coaches that was in the SEC, now in the ACC.  Just a tremendous person and a great coach.
You watch what he's done at that program, it's been fantastic.  They have athletes, they have speed, play with physicality.  It will be a tremendous challenge for our football program here on Friday night.
But we had a great week of practice.  We prepared really, really hard, I should say more than a week, we've had a bye week.  We're anxious to get back on the field.
With that, I'm happy to answer any questions.
Q. I was looking at the numbers during your time at Boston College, and you have been pretty aggressive on fourth down.  Have you noticed that there are more teams that are sort of being more aggressive?  Seems like you've always been this way.
STEVE ADDAZIO: I would say maybe I do a little bit notice that.  I mean, I can speak for ourselves.  We've had some field goal struggles.  So maybe my decision making sometimes is easier, especially on the plus side of the field.  When it comes to the other side of the field, we pride ourselves about, Can you get a yard?
We feel like who we are, we need to be able to get a yard.  So we're going be aggressive with these fourth down deals.  Obviously more aggressive as we cross the 50, and even with the down and distance we'll be more aggressive as we cross the 50.
That's kind of our mindset, something that we take a bit of pride in.
THE MODERATOR: Thanks for joining us today.
STEVE ADDAZIO: My pleasure.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT