ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 17, 2018
Steve Addazio
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We're joined now by Boston College head coach Steve Addazio.
Coach, please give us an opening statement and then we'll open it up for questions.
STEVE ADDAZIO: It's awfully nice to be in a bye week, especially with a win.  Makes the week a whole lot nicer.
Our kids here at Boston College, heavy academic load, a great week for them to really be able to sink in with even more time into their academics, to get caught up.  In addition to that, like a lot of people, we've been in some pretty physical contests.  I think it's a great opportunity for them to get their bodies rested.  Even encouraging the coaches to do the best they can in terms of getting a workout, being able to get our work done.
I want everyone to press the reset button and get as fresh as we can possibly get, then look at it through the eyes of one week at a time, a five-game run, as we come back to this thing.
We obviously will practice this week for a couple days, starting tomorrow and Friday.  But I think this came at exactly the right time for us.  We desperately needed this.  I think it will be a very positive thing.
Happy to answer any questions.
Q. Looking ahead, the challenge of playing Miami on a Friday night, what challenges does that pose for you?
STEVE ADDAZIO: I mean, none.  We have a bye week.  It will be a great opportunity, a great electric crowd up here.  I think that we have plenty of time to prepare.  It's not a short week.  Same for them.
I think it will be a great college football atmosphere here in Chestnut Hill.  Be nice, on the cool side.  It's a red bandana game for us, which is a very meaningful game.  Welles Crowther, the representation of what he stood for our country, for our university.  Very, very emotional game.  Always leads to a great environment here.
We're looking forward to that.
THE MODERATOR: Thanks for joining us.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT