ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 19, 2018
Steve Addazio
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








STEVE ADDAZIO: Well, we're excited to have another opportunity to play.  Thank God, last week we were able to get our game in with the help of a lot of people.  Obviously, the people at Wake Forest and the athletic director and Dave and everybody there did an unbelievable job.  We had a beautiful night.  We were in a tough, tough ballgame against a really good football team and were able to come out with a win and get out before the storm hit that area.
We're now back, ready to roll here, to travel out to Purdue.  Play a Big Ten team at homecoming at their place with their backs up against the wall, coming out firing.  And we know we're going into a pretty hostile environment.  We've had a pretty good week of practice and looking forward to getting going and getting out on the field again.  I'm happy to answer any questions.
Q. BC's reach into the Midwest has always been good, but just because of the schedule, you never get out there much.  Do you view this as an opportunity to showcase your brand in a Big Ten venue?
STEVE ADDAZIO: You know, I hadn't really thought about that, to be honest with you, but it's a thought.  Certainly, we're a team that's going to recruit in Indianapolis and in Ohio, especially in the Catholic leagues, Michigan.  So yeah, I mean, you're right.  It is an opportunity for us to get out there and get some recognition in an area that we do recruit pretty heavily.  Sometimes I'm just so consumed with getting ready, like everybody else is, for the game, and didn't really process it that way, but I think that can help us for sure.
Q. Statistics say that Anthony is the most efficient quarterback in the country.  Thus far, what does the tape tell your probably more discerning eye?
STEVE ADDAZIO: Well, I think he's played really well.  I think he's made a lot of good decisions and throwing the ball very, very accurately.  So that's not -- that's not surprising to me.  He had a heck of a night on Thursday night throwing the football, so he's been steadily improving.  This is a guy that cracked on to the scene last year and was getting better every week, and then of course we lost him at the end of the year, and he's come back down and I think really picked up where he left off and has continued to grow and develop.
Q. What role has Scott played in Anthony's progress?
STEVE ADDAZIO: Well, I think Scott is one of the truly great developers of quarterbacks.  He's a good evaluator, a good developer, and having played the position himself at a high level and having coached in the NFL and at a major college, obviously, at Michigan, I think he just has a great feel.  He's as good a teacher as I've been around.  He's a great teacher.  He's done a great job with our quarterbacks and with our throw game, and it's something that we needed to improve on, and I think we have improved quite a bit.
Q. This week the ACC and the CFP are celebrating Extra Yard For Teachers.  I wonder if you could tell us what role teachers played or how they impacted your life.
STEVE ADDAZIO: Well, my father was a teacher.  In fact, on his tombstone, it's -- in a whisper, it says, a teacher.  That's what he wanted.  He taught at the high school level, taught overseas, taught at the college level, taught teachers that wanted to become teachers.  He was a great role model for me growing up.  To see the impact that he had on young people's lives was pretty moving to me at a young age and was truly -- I even had the great honor of being in his class when I was at Central Connecticut, and watching him firsthand myself, and he was just a really great teacher, communicator, educator.  I lived in that world and understand the impact of that, have a great appreciation for the great teachers out there and what they do for our society, for our young people, and they're invaluable.  I think about that often, so my hats are off to all the great teachers out there and the impact and what they've done for our world.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT