ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 5, 2018
Steve Addazio
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
STEVE ADDAZIO: Well, we just finished our Wednesday preparation for Holy Cross, week 2.  We're excited about that and know that we're playing an old-time rivalry game here, Northeast geographical location rivalry game and a lot of interest to the fan base and to the people in the area, and we know we'll get a very well-coached and good football team in Holy Cross, and our goal is to come out and play as strong as we can and continue to improve as a football program.  Happy to answer any questions.   
 Q.  I've been asking the guys, there's that expression out there or the theory that teams make their biggest improvement from week 1 to week 2.  Do you subscribe to that theory, and if so or if not, what's your thinking there?  
STEVE ADDAZIO: Well, my thinking is you've got to improve each week.  I don't like greatest, biggest, best.  I just think that your goal is to go out and improve on the areas that you need to improve on each week, and you continue to grow and develop as a football program.  I think when you're not growing, you're not developing, and you're stagnant, that means you're going backwards, and no one wants to do that.   
But what I've found over the years is each game brings a set of new things that you're confronted with that you're trying to improve upon, and that's the cool part of it is trying to get your whole football team and your coaching staff all on the same page and continue to develop that chemistry and finding the spots that you think need to improve, improve them, and move this thing forward.   
 Q.  And in terms of the ideal kind of schedule world, is it good to be tested in your opener?  Is it better to kind of ease into things?  I know a lot of the guys mentioned you don't get a preseason game; they all count for you.  
STEVE ADDAZIO: I mean, I think you like to -- I think football is a momentum game, and whenever possible, you'd like to build momentum.  I think everybody would like to start with the opportunity to grow and build from the beginning.  I wouldn't say the most ideal thing would be to play the most competitive team on your schedule game 1, but sometimes that happens.  It's kind of like what's better, what's good.  I almost give up thinking about that sometimes.  It's kind of like as a coach, you go out and you say, oh, boy, we look like we're not jacked up enough in pregame, what does that mean, and then you go out and play lights out.  Other times it's like, oh, what a great pregame we had.   
I try not to read into all that stuff.  I think each week, each game has got a new set to it, a new feel to it, and you know, you're fighting like crazy every week to get your team to competitive excellence, and you've got to learn how to deal the cards that you have, whatever they are, whatever that means.  Are you playing on Thursday, are you playing on Saturday, are you playing the No. 2 ranked team or are you playing an unranked team.  It's all over the lot.  So what I know is nothing is consistent, and each week is a new week, and you've got to go after it and you've got to learn from the week before.   
 Q.  Michael Walker is from our neck of the beach down here, and he's been a pretty important guy up there for three years.  How important is he to your team?  
STEVE ADDAZIO: Well, first and foremost, Michael is an outstanding player.  He affects our special teams, he affects our offense, he affects the leadership of our team.  He's an unbelievable, high-character, wonderful kid.  Comes from a wonderful family.  He's wired the right way, cares about all the right stuff.  Tremendous worker, great student.  You're talking about one of those all-American guys.  He came from a great high school football program in Naples High School, and he has continued to excel and surpass our dreams for him.  I mean, he's come in here and been an impact player for us, gotten better each year and a great representative of what Boston College is all about.   
 Q.  One other local guy we have there is Sparacio, Joe.  He got in last week, got one tackle, maybe two, but how is he looking thus far?  
STEVE ADDAZIO: Yeah, Joe Sparacio is going to be a great player for us.  He's a great -- another wonderful human being, comes from an unbelievable family.  His dad Billy was his high school coach, is a great guy.  I've known all these guy and I recruited Naples most of my career when I was at Florida, so I've established a lot of relationships down there.  This kid is just a beautiful kid, tough, athletic, loves football, high character, faith is important in his life, and it was great to see him get in with this new rule where we can get these freshmen in and get them some experience.  But Joe is going to be a really good football player.  It sounds like you're mentioning two of the top-end kids in our program right now.  Maybe we ought to spend a little bit more time down in Naples, Florida.   
 Q.  After your first game, what major questions did you have about your team that you think you got answered?  
STEVE ADDAZIO: Well, I think the biggest thing we wanted to get answered was to see our quarterback, who had come off an injury from the year before, to see how he would come back into the fray, and he picked up right where he left off and exceeded it.  So I think that was one of those things that we really wanted to -- we were anxious to see.  Probably the biggest.  And then along with that, we wanted to be able to become a more explosive team, and I thought we did that, as well.  One week doesn't make a season, but I thought we improved on the goals that we set for that game, and now we have a new set of goals, and we've got to go after those.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT