BOSTON COLLEGE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
April 14, 2018
Steve Addazio
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Really increased the pace of play last year it seemed like.  Is that a trend that's going to continue based on what we saw from the young guys?
COACH STEVE ADDAZIO: Yeah, yeah, absolutely.  That's what we do, and you know, actually today, we're kind of summoning a lot of guys -- we're actually a little slower than we probably normally would be.  Yeah, pace of play and you know, we had a chance to rotate around a little bit and we wanted to do that a little bit, too.  That's what we got done.
Q. What did you take away from the play --
COACH STEVE ADDAZIO: Both of them had some really good plays.  They both did.  It was nice to see and that's the way it's been all spring.  They are young guys.  They make some really great-looking plays.  Sometimes they ride the roller coaster a little bit but they had a great spring and they got all those reps, so it really was great for them.  They really grew and they developed, which was really nice to see, both of them.  We're really encouraged about it.
You know, we threw more with Matt because we didn't have any backs there.  We held AJ out and we kept Ben and Travis on one side.  But other than that, no.  I mean, they both really made some very, very nice plays.  They both threw a couple of really nice deep balls.  They both got the ball around a little bit.  I was pleased with that.
You know, there's different playmakers in there for them, too.  We didn't have all the guys on the field today obviously, and they are used to it all spring long with a little chemistry there, and some of that wasn't present and we held them out but that was fine.  We wanted most of the younger guys to get most of the reps.
Q. What did you see from Elijah?
COACH STEVE ADDAZIO: Elijah had a great spring.  Really performed well.  Really was one of those guys that actually took it up a notch.  We were pleased.  And those are two examples of two great balls, one by Matt, one by E.J.  Those were two nice deep balls, right on the money, both throws.  That's really good to see.  You can see the potential in those guys and that's why you're in a foot race to experience and even them out a little bit.
Q. The right tackle?
COACH STEVE ADDAZIO: Yeah, we spent some real time with him in spring.  He's a natural right tackle, so that was really good to see.  I was really pleased with his spring progress, as well.  I liked Alec Lindstrom's progress at center.  I thought he really took a step forward.
We held Chris out today and stuff, limited Sam's reps.  But all in all, I thought it was very, very -- one of the best springs we've had, so I was really pleased with that.
Q. Inaudible.
COACH STEVE ADDAZIO: 280-something right now.  Hopefully we can get him to 290 before the start of the season, I hope.  Just like his brother, same pace.  Same schedule.
Q. How does the versatility of the offensive line help if you're running that fast-paced, spread attack?
COACH STEVE ADDAZIO: It will help us moving forward.  We will get Elijah Johnson back, we'll get John Baker back.  Really increase our depth up there.  We'll have eight -- you know, eight guys, nine guys, that we can play with.  We need them though, you know.  In this conference, it's just hard to go through unscathed.  Even if it's not just a rotational deal, you just have injuries that will force you into that, so you've got to get these guys ready to go.
We've got experience and depth now.  I feel confident.
Q. Early you had E.J. out of the shotgun to start the game, but after that interception, he stayed under center for most of the game.
COACH STEVE ADDAZIO: That had nothing to do it.  On the interception, I felt bad.  We had John, a white jersey with the mesh thing and he didn't see him but there's nothing we could do.  We were trying to rotate jerseys fast out here with a couple guys because of depth.  That was nothing to do with nothing and we were going to be in and out of shotgun and under center on a regular basis this year.  More so than we were a year ago.  A year ago, we were really throwing the ball out of the shotgun but now we are going to run and throw it out of both.
Q. A lot of passing.
COACH STEVE ADDAZIO: We did last year a lot of that, sprint out.  We're going to keep things on the move.  That's our philosophy, and keeping the field moving.
Q. Overall how would you describe this spring?
COACH STEVE ADDAZIO: I mean, we're ahead of where we've been.  I mean, like we moved the ball around pretty well today and it was probably both sides of the ball, it might have been 13 guys and we still kind of, for spring football out here, kind of moving the ball around fairly effectively, honestly.  I think that tells you in itself where we are.  We have more depth and more skill players, so we could accommodate not playing any of those guys, whereas before, it would be really difficult for us, really hard.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT