MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
March 28, 2021
Felix Auger-Aliassime
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  J. ISNER/F. Auger-Aliassime
 7-6, 7-6
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. Looking back, what do you think was the difference between winning and losing the match against John this afternoon?  It seemed like it was so close out there, very few deuces, breakpoints.
 FELIX AUGER-ALIASSIME:   Yeah.  Yeah, we were both serving well.  You know, I mean, 6 and 6 I guess is a pretty common score against John.  Yeah, I think I was able to protect my serve well.  Didn't face a breakpoint, so that was good on my part.
 Then I think I could have adjusted a few things, looking back on the return, to try to find a way to, I don't know, even bunt a few returns in the court to make him play.
 But again, I was trying my best.  You know, in the tiebreaks it's just few points here and there.  I played poor points at the start of both tiebreaks, and then it just -- yeah, it just, I guess, slipped out of my hands, really.  It was a close one.
 Q. Could you share with us what is it like being on the receiving end of a John Isner serve coming at you over 100 miles an hour?
 FELIX AUGER-ALIASSIME:   Well, we get used to the speed, but it's the precision and consistency of it.  You know, when you get a guy like this, you know, people have to understand the focus that it requires, you know, to be like this for, what is it, 26 games.  Because you have to be focused on your serve too, because you know as soon as you get broken, it's tough to come back.
 So the focus is incredible, the focus you have to put in.  And then he's super precise, so it's tough to get a racquet on it.  Even if you guess where it comes, sometimes it bounces high and so it's super precise, not only powerful.
 Q. A tough one.  I'm just sort of curious now where you were working on your game.  Is there something in particular that you wish you could take from point A to point B that you're really focusing on, or is it just sort of the daily grind of trying to improve everything?
 FELIX AUGER-ALIASSIME:   Well, my game is improving in the right direction.  Also I think my mentality, as well.  You know, I lost close matches this year so far.  Honestly, keep going and find a way that it's going to fall on my side.
 Sometimes it's close matches like today where in the past that it's fallen on my side before.  Now recently it hasn't, but you just keep going.
 But nothing crazy.  Nothing specific.  But of course every time I step on the court and to work, I want to improve my shots, you know, from my serve to my backhand to my forehand.  But overall just keep doing what I'm doing.
 Q. Just overall, even if you have tough losses, you're always very upbeat and looking at what you can do better, taking positives.  Where do you think that comes from, the mentality?
 FELIX AUGER-ALIASSIME:   Well, that's the only way for me to get to where I want, you know.  If I dwell on my losses and I don't show a trait of character and resilience, I mean, I'm not going in the right direction.
 So, no, today is tough loss, but I have to, you know, keep going forward.  Honestly I'm playing well, I'm feeling good.  In this period, as well, I don't want to be too hard on myself.  I think there has been tougher moments also.
 Q. A tough match out there.  Can you take away the positive that you went the entire match without giving up a breakpoint on your serve?
 FELIX AUGER-ALIASSIME:   Well, that was for sure a good part.  It shows good signs if I can repeat that on other matches.  The high percentage of my stats on the serve today was good.  Yeah, that was definitely a good part of the match.
 Q. You were able to actually go toe to toe in the ace department, I think it was something like 16 to 11.  How does that make you feel?
 FELIX AUGER-ALIASSIME:   Yeah, I served well.  No, I did.  We know he serves well, but I did serve well today, yeah.  It's good.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT