ATP CUP
January 3, 2020
Felix Auger-Aliassime
Adriano Fuorivia
Denis Shapovalov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








F. AUGER-ALIASSIME, D. SHAPOVALOV/M. Pervolarakis, P. Tsitsipas
6-2, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: We'll start with questions for Team Canada.
Q. Congrats on the win, guys. How fun was that out there? It looked like you guys were having a good time.
FELIX AUGER-ALIASSIME: Definitely. We have been playing a long time and it brings back good memories and even with Adriano on the chair we can kind of, yeah, come back on the old memories which are like four years ago, but it was good to get out with Denis again. I think that, even though the team, with the rankings could have been weaker, I think we stepped up on the court with good energy and focus and did the job. So, yeah.
Q. Adriano, you're undefeated as a captain. Are you going to continue the rest of the week?
ADRIANO FUORIVIA: I'm hoping to keep this streak going, but it was definitely a great start to the event. These boys played awesome, it's easy to support them when they're playing like that.
FELIX AUGER-ALIASSIME: But if we don't (laughing) he's out (laughing).
ADRIANO FUORIVIA: 3 a.m. I'm out (laughing).
Q. Some of the rare players now who played both Tsitsipas brothers. Curious if you see any similarities at all in their game and any way to know they were related, besides their last name?
FELIX AUGER-ALIASSIME: On the backhand, for sure. I mean, for me like for his ranking he had a good serve, to be honest. He was not so hard, but precise. Better hand than his partner, that's maybe the similarities. But it's tough to say, I mean, the difference of level is so big that, I mean, it's tough to say that.
DENIS SHAPOVALOV: I thought he was pretty good. I was impressed.
FELIX AUGER-ALIASSIME: The other way though.
DENIS SHAPOVALOV: Yeah, yeah, of course the difference, yeah, it's definitely tough. But, yeah, no, I was impressed. I think he was definitely the better doubles player on the court and he was doing a good job covering the net, he was a bit more tricky to play against.
Q. Do you guys enjoy, you like playing doubles with each other, obviously, but do you enjoy doubles with other players? Is that something that you enjoy?
DENIS SHAPOVALOV: I hate doubles, I hate playing it.
FELIX AUGER-ALIASSIME: He just played 25 tournaments last year though (laughing).
DENIS SHAPOVALOV: I hate playing it. No, I enjoy it. Especially with a good partner. I mean, for me it's extra practice and I just play for the fun of it. It's fun to team up with someone else. Tennis is so individual, so any time you get to share the court with someone it's, for me it's a great time. And I've been playing with Rohan for a couple months and I think he's helped me a lot, first of all, in my game. I could talk to him, he's got so much experience and he's such an open and great guy, he loves to share and, yeah, it's just fun to play with him. And obviously he's focused on doubles, so of course I would love to help him out any chance I get. So I think my partnership with Rohan is just based on purely like we just enjoy playing doubles and we enjoy playing together.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT