US OPEN
August 27, 2019
Felix Auger-Aliassime
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. SHAPOVALOV/F. Auger-Aliassime
6-1, 6-1, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Obviously very disappointing. You weren't at your best obviously. How did you see the match?
FELIX AUGER-ALIASSIME: Yeah, for sure, I think he played one of his good matches this year. I think he would agree.
From my part, yeah, I haven't really figured out where I'm going to go from here, like what to think from that match. I don't even know what my emotions are regarding that match. I don't know if I should be frustrated, sad. I'm not sure.
Yeah, to be honest, about the game, I couldn't figure out really what to do. Tried to put as much balls as I could, try to be more solid, be aggressive, hit him more than he was hitting me. I was, like, in a zone where I didn't know where to stand.
He was hitting me hard, putting a lot of pressure. I just felt like I think I really constructed, like, two points in the match. I was just was getting hit and hit and reacting. I was, like, always one shot late, one step late.
Q. Physically you're fine?
FELIX AUGER-ALIASSIME: No, I'm fine. In Cincinnati I just felt emotionally drained from Montreal. I just felt not great. This time I had a good training week. I was feeling well. I was moving well, training well.
Yeah, he just hit me with some really good tennis. I just had, like, a nervous start. After I was fine. I just couldn't figure out what to do.
Q. The other day we talked about strategy, coming in, being able to strategize. Did he do something different that you hadn't seen prior?
FELIX AUGER-ALIASSIME: He was doing everything well tonight, to be honest. He's been returning much better than he used to. I mean, I don't know, I didn't check my percentage, but I don't think I served so bad. Even my second serves, he was just hitting me so hard from it, hitting the baseline, hitting the corners.
I just feel like I had zero time, no chance what to do. Then also he was serving a lot T and wide. He was serving almost only to my backhand, then surprising me serving to my forehand sometimes, so I couldn't really read where he was going. It was really tough for me to return.
Then, yeah, just the pressure he did honestly. He was playing just top-level tennis tonight.
Q. You must have seen what he did last week in Winston-Salem. This seemed to be different. He played fairly well there.
FELIX AUGER-ALIASSIME: Yeah, it seems like he was playing better and better. I can't remember, in Cincy I think he won his first round. I'm not sure. Anyway, just felt like as the hard court season was going, I felt like he was playing better and better. I watched his matches in Winston-Salem. Seemed like, yes, he was playing fine, but not as good as tonight.
Yeah, tonight was just a great level from him, and really pretty poor from me.
Q. You had nothing before the match that made you think maybe you would have a bad day?
FELIX AUGER-ALIASSIME: No. I had a great warmup. I slept well. Everything was going as it was supposed to be. Yeah, felt a bit nervous walking to the court, but nothing that I haven't seen before.
Yeah, from like the first game, I had a good first service game, and after I felt like, yeah, I wasn't moving quite well, I was a bit late. But then the end of the first, the second and third, all that went away. I just still couldn't figure it out. I was still late. He was still hitting me. I was still on my back foot, so yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT