MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
March 26, 2019
Felix Auger-Aliassime
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








F. AUGER-ALIASSIME/N. Basilashvili
7-6, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. It was a very tight match.  What do you think actually made you get the extra edge in the first-set tiebreak and in kind of the business end of the second set?  What do you think you had more compared to him today?
FELIX AUGER-ALIASSIME: I mean, not a lot of things in the first set, obviously.  I think a bit like the match before, I think he was almost playing a little bit better.  Maybe he had a few more occasions than me to break me, a lot more break points.
When I got broken at 5-All, tried to stay calm, tried to find a way.  You know, maybe he does, like, unforced error, did a double fault, and then maybe got tight and I was back in the match.
So it was about finding ways.  I think in the tiebreak, I was able to be a bit more solid and pressure him a little bit more, and it really made a difference.  After, I felt like I had an edge over him in the second set, being up a break twice and being able to secure my serve at the end.  So it was more my way then.
Q. Do you recognize the scope of how things are taking place in Canada with tennis?  I mean, the way that Bianca goes and wins Indian Wells and your run that you're having and Denis a couple years ago, just your take on how tennis is developing in Canada and where things are at, the eyes that are on you guys?
FELIX AUGER-ALIASSIME: Yeah, we are definitely seeing it and feeling it.  But I think it's all positives.  I don't think anyone sees it as an extra pressure or anything.
I think we're all just enjoying our time and enjoying the fact that we are three young players plus Milos that are playing, you know, good at the same time.  You know, having examples like this in the country is crucial.  I remember for me it was.
So to be able now to give back and inspire younger kids is a privilege.  Hopefully we can all, our separate ways, we can all keep playing well and motivate us and see how far we can go.
Q. (Question off microphone.)
FELIX AUGER-ALIASSIME: Yeah, maybe I am.  Maybe I'm inspired by what the others are doing, but I think I'm in a position now where I also have a chance, because my dad has an academy, and I have a chance to give back and give the lessons that I have learned over the last few years to these kids.
Q. (Question off microphone.)
FELIX AUGER-ALIASSIME: You know, I'm not sure where to start, but just to work -- obviously you have to work hard, but also be patient and enjoy what you do, because at the end of the day, it takes a lot of time and you have to enjoy it.
I'm sure there are other things I'd like to tell them if I have the chance, but I think those are the basics, yeah.
Q. People have been talking about you as the next sort of great player for a long time.  I'm curious how you keep yourself from getting ahead of yourself on that and still realizing the process that has to go in before you can make breakthroughs like this quarterfinal?
FELIX AUGER-ALIASSIME: I think I have been dealing with this for the last couple of years, so I think in a way that's why I am able now to have these kind of results, because this extra pressure, this attention that I gave maybe last year or the year before to the outcomes, to the medias, that's a bit behind me now where I'm able really to stay in the present and really focus on what I have to do in the court, finding ways to win.  That just keeps me going and just keeps me happy.
Q. So you're saying you did more media-type stuff before but less now?
FELIX AUGER-ALIASSIME: I guess I would maybe care more about, like, the results and the expectations, and I would put maybe more pressure on myself.  I think since the start of this year I made a switch in my head where, you know, I'm really focusing on what I have to do every day.  In a way, that's how I give myself the best chances.
Q. Your next opponent, possibly two very different players, Kyrgios or Coric.  Can you say a few words about either of them?
FELIX AUGER-ALIASSIME: Yeah, both would be exciting.  Obviously you have Coric that is one of the most solid players on the tour from the baseline, super disciplined.  That would have to, you know, find ways to create some space.  Maybe finish the points at the net a little bit more.
Then you've got Kyrgios where you're not sure what to expect but obviously great serving from him.  Again, it's tough, because he's going to put a lot of pressure on me, on my serve.
But again, tomorrow I will focus on what I have to do, and I'll try and adapt and find ways, depending who I play.
Q. You have known Denis for a long time.  Do you think you'll get a chance to have a guest verse on one of his raps any time soon?
FELIX AUGER-ALIASSIME: No, that's not my type.  That's his thing (smiling).  That's his thing.  No, I'm not there yet, but, you know, if he likes doing it, I like to see him do it.  You know, it's fun.
Q. So what's your thing?  Do you have one, like, crazy thing that you like doing like Denis?
FELIX AUGER-ALIASSIME: Not much.  Regular stuff.  I spend time, you know, whenever I'm not playing, I spend time with my family.  I watch TV shows.  I think I said before I played a little bit of piano, used to as a kid.  Maybe that's my artistic thing.
Q. It's kind of complicated to bring it onto the court?
FELIX AUGER-ALIASSIME: Yeah (smiling).  I haven't been playing in a long time, because I'm always on the road.  But whenever I have a chance, I like to play a little bit, yeah.
Q. (Question off microphone.)
FELIX AUGER-ALIASSIME: You know, classics, or in French we say (speaking French).  Contemporary.
Q. (Question off microphone.)
FELIX AUGER-ALIASSIME: No, my mom played, so I play the songs that I heard as a kid growing up.
Q. (Question off microphone.)
FELIX AUGER-ALIASSIME: I don't remember the names.  Sorry.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT