ROLEX MONTE-CARLO MASTERS
April 17, 2019
Felix Auger-Aliassime
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. ZVEREV/F. Auger-Aliassime   
6-1, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
 Q.  Walk us through that match.  
FELIX AUGER-ALIASSIME: At the beginning, it was very difficult.  He started playing very well in this match.  He put pressure on me.  I knew I had to raise the level of my tennis, so I felt that pressure which made me to force a little bit my shots.   
He returned my service from the beginning.  Then I sort of lost control of my service, and then it was complicated and things were too fast.  By the end of the first set, I think that the game was out of my control.   
On the second set, I tried to look for opportunities.  I got them.  But it's a pity that I couldn't take advantage of them.  This is where the match really went out of my hands, because losing the first set, that can happen, but not actually being able to win that second set, it's a real pity, because it would have been good if I had played a third set.   
 Q.  When you will be leaving Monte-Carlo, you still will have the feeling that you are playing better on clay?  How do you see the rest of the clay court season?  
FELIX AUGER-ALIASSIME: There's definitely positive things.  Yesterday's match, for instance, and some games of this match.   
I think that we have to look ahead.  There are many matches ahead.  I need to rest a little bit, to take care of myself physically, and get prepared for Barcelona.   
 Q.  This is probably a question you have been asked frequently, but you are the new rising star of the international tennis.  How do you live with this new status?  
FELIX AUGER-ALIASSIME: Well, this is good, but at the end of the day, nothing really changes for me.  I keep on doing the same things.  All this is the proof that I'm doing things right.   
I'm still the same person, so I keep on doing the same things.  Of course there are new things that are arriving in my life.  I just have to learn how to deal with them.   
 Q.  You have two coaches, Guillaume and Frederic.  So three of you decide who is coming to where?  How does it work?  Is Fred or Guillaume or both coming to Roland Garros, or how do you decide who comes where?  
FELIX AUGER-ALIASSIME: At the beginning of the year, we all together determine which weeks who is going to be with me, and then of course I say what I think, but we are all in agreement.  There is very often two or three weeks each one of them goes and they alternate, and there are some transition weeks where both of them are present.  That is quite unusual.   
Guillaume started the clay court season.  Then Frederic will continue.  And then Guillaume will get the end of the season.   
 Q.  Do they have the same qualities, or are they complementary or are they different?  
FELIX AUGER-ALIASSIME: They have the same vision, the same character, I would say.  So that is helpful, because there are not big changes from one week to another one.  They both have different qualities and experiences.   
Guillaume knows me since I was very young.  He knows me very well.   He's like a second father to me.  We have a very close relationship.   
And with Fred, too.  He brought me his high-level professional experience.  Fred completed very well the rest of the team, together with Guillaume, and Guillaume has given me a lot.   
 Q.  With a player like you, we need to recommend you to be patient?  Are you in a hurry to win?  
FELIX AUGER-ALIASSIME: No, I think I am a patient player.  I have plenty of time ahead of me.  The important thing now is to do things right little by little, take my time.  I would have loved to win today.  I'm disappointed.   
If I had been able to play my tennis, I would have increased my chances.  But anyway, I'm learning.  This is the proof that I still have many things to do.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT