ROLAND GARROS
June 5, 2016
Felix Auger-Aliassime
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








G. BLANCANEAUX/F. Auger Aliassime
1-6, 6-3, 8-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. A tough match obviously.  How are you feeling now, hour or so after that's over?
FELIX AUGER ALIASSIME: Yeah, of course it was tough I think at the beginning.  Just after my loss I was really disappointed after getting so close.  I mean, you can't really get any closer than that.
After looking back to my week, I think I have made some great improvement.  I'm happy with what I did, but, yeah, I think it's another good lesson.  I'm just gonna come back stronger.
Q. Was it hard though on the court to -- now you're an hour away, but on the court it seemed like you were quite upset about the three match points gone and opportunity.
FELIX AUGER ALIASSIME: Yeah, of course.  It's really disappointed.  I was kind of devastated after the match.  But, yeah, talking to my coaches after they made me realize some things.
I thought about it, and I know I have a lot of time in front of me.  But, yeah, it was tough.  It's still tough to take the loss after getting so close.  That's for sure.
Q. Was it hard with the crowd?  That's a pretty big crowd all for him pretty much.
FELIX AUGER ALIASSIME: Oh, I think it's good.  It gives a good atmosphere on the court.  I mean, it would be the same if I would be playing in Canada, so I can't really complain about this.
When I was on the court it felt like it was only the court, him, and me.  I think it was great.  It got me motivated, too.
Q. From the outside we get excited about seeing a 15 year old in a junior final at a Grand Slam.  Do you feel that way too?  Do you feel like what you're doing at your age is incredible or does it feel normal to you?
FELIX AUGER ALIASSIME: It doesn't feel normal (Smiling.)  It doesn't feel incredible.  I mean, with the work I've done and I know what I am able of, I know I can achieve some great things.  I just want to keep having fun, keep doing what I do best, and hope to get a title soon.
Yeah.
Q. What are your plans from here?  Are you staying over through Wimbledon?  Are you going back home?
FELIX AUGER ALIASSIME: No, I'm going back home.  I'm still in school, so I've got to go back home and work on that.
Then, yeah, rest a little bit and train and then two-and-a-half weeks I'm going to be back in Europe for Wimbledon.
Q. You're a sophomore?  High school?  Year 10?
FELIX AUGER ALIASSIME: Yeah, grade 10.  Yeah.
Q. And you actually go to school, not home schooling and stuff?
FELIX AUGER ALIASSIME: No, no, no, home school.  Distance school.  I do it on the Internet, yeah.
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. What happened after the first set?
FELIX AUGER ALIASSIME: Well, I started well.  I was very happy with my attitude when I was on the court.  Then during the second set I thought, Yeah, I'm a bit tired.  I lost my concentration.  He increased his level of game.
He was a bit surprised because I started well; he adjusted his game.  Congratulations to him for that.  Then afterwards I didn't serve as well as the other days this week, so it was a key moment to win points more quickly.
I had to work each point.  In terms of my serves, it was more difficult.  I wanted to keep my focus and remain in the match and fight back.  I had some difficulties in the second set.  It wasn't fun.
Q. When there was the match point, what were you thinking about?
FELIX AUGER ALIASSIME: Well, the match point, you know, I did what I had to do.  I was fighting as much as I could, and he attacked me but I didn't see that at the right moment.
Sometimes for some points I'd say, Congrats to you.  You played well.  He played an ace.  Other points I could have fought more for them.  But, you know, he was so solid.  I can't reproach myself with many things on these match points.
Q. What were you thinking about at the end of the match when you had to go back to your chair and you were shouting, I think, Why?  Why?  And you were about to throw your racquet on the ground.  Then Yannick Noah came to you to embrace you.  What did you feel?
FELIX AUGER ALIASSIME: Lots of emotions.  I was not far from winning the Grand Slam, so a lot of frustration, that's for sure.
I think it's normal at my age to be disappointed after a loss.  It's the least you can expect to feel.  But then it was kind of him to come onto the court.  It was really nice.  Really nice.  I'd like to thank him for that.
And, yeah, lots of frustration for me.  I think it's normal.  But it's okay now.  It's going to fade away after a little while.
Q. What did he say to you, if that's not indiscreet?
FELIX AUGER ALIASSIME: He encouraged me.  He said that the road is long ahead of me still and that I've already worked a lot.  I have to continue on the same tracks and I will accomplish good things.
Q. Now, in English you said that after discussing this with your coaches they asked you to take a little distance to look at this and to say, Okay, it's a loss, but not that terrible.
FELIX AUGER ALIASSIME: Yeah, that's true.  They told me it's a good tournament for me.  And, you know, what we want is to win a major tournament with the professionals.
This is yet another good lesson for my future and I build on this.  I'll try and remain solid and keep doing what I do when I practice.  That is, keep my motivation.
Q. You played very well during the first two sets today, and is it normal that you decreased, you dropped a little?  Because you had played well during these first two sets.
FELIX AUGER ALIASSIME: That's true.  Given the intensity I had put into my games, it's always difficult to keep the same level during the whole match.  But I think I fought well; mentally I was really into the match.
It's normal.  You know, it's my last week in Europe, my last match, so physically I'm not perhaps totally fit.  Otherwise I was keeping my focus to remain in the match.
With years I'll become stronger and certain matches will be won in two sets perhaps.
Q. Physically nothing too serious?
FELIX AUGER ALIASSIME: No.  Physically it's okay; in good form.
Q. Well, physically speaking I read that maybe you have some heart concerns or condition.  I saw that on the Internet.  Can you tell me more about this?  Is this something that worries you?
FELIX AUGER ALIASSIME: No, no.  There's not much I can say about this.  I'm not worried about this.
I'm fit.  I'm healthy.  These things happen.  They will be solved during summer.  Nothing serious.
Q. Do you want to tell us what this is?
FELIX AUGER ALIASSIME: No, no, I don't want to talk about this.  I'll keep it to myself.  Sorry.
Q. Okay.  Have you set short-term objectives?  Midterm?  Two years?  Three years?  Your ranking?  Your position?  Do you know what you want to do?  Do you have ideas about this?
FELIX AUGER ALIASSIME: No.  Well, yeah.  to be professional.  To win a Grand Slam, junior Grand Slam, and then have a good performance on the pro tour.  You know, I'm being trained for that at present.
When I reach professional level I know that I have before that to work, to be trained.  I would like to win everything, of course, but that's part of the game.  I have objectives.  Well, the results will come when I've worked.
Q. Do you like playing on grass?  Is it a surface that's good for you?
FELIX AUGER ALIASSIME: Yeah.  I want to play on grass for the first time.  Maybe my game will be good for grass.  We'll see.  It's going to be a nice experience for me to play on grass.
Q. Do you know what you're going to do in Montreal, if you can play on grass in Montreal?
FELIX AUGER ALIASSIME: I'll see.  I don't know really.  I don't know.  We'll see.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT