THE BARCLAYS
August 25, 2012
Bob Estes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about how tough it was to try to gauge putts?
BOB ESTES:   They are just really, really fast.   DJ had a 4‑putt four times I think, so that's how fast they were. 

Q.   Talk about some of the shots that helped get you through the round and keep yourself in contention through Sunday?
BOB ESTES:   I was 2‑over going into 8, so to get that birdie‑‑ birdie on 7 and par putt on 8 to kind of keep me in the game, and then I did miss a short birdie putt on 10. 

Q.   Tell me about the prospects for Sunday, right in the hunt?
BOB ESTES:   Yeah, I'm looking forward to playing tomorrow.   I'm just enjoying hitting quality shots.   Kind of hard to tell with the greens like that, and all you're trying to do is keep from knocking it way back. 
I enjoy a challenge.   I just hope the greens aren't quite as fast as they were this afternoon. 

Q.   Big numbers recorded out here on a very tough golf course.   Assess your round?
BOB ESTES:   Well, I didn't get off to the greatest start, but when I birdied 7, made the par putt on 8, it kind of got me back in the game and I made a couple of good birdies on 11 and 12 and almost birdied 10.   Yeah, I fought back.   There's just a lot of places out there where you're playing defense, and even from ten or 20 feet away, or sometimes closer than that, you have to play defense. 

Q.   Some of the players said the greens were set up‑‑ it's an unfair golf course.   What's your assessment of that? 
BOB ESTES:   The golf course is great and I don't know who is in charge of the greens, and they are okay in the morning, but there's too big of a difference to the way the golf course plays in the morning to the way it plays in the afternoon.   I've seen a little bit of both, and the first 14 holes, the golf course played pretty much the way it should.   It was difficult and the greens were still fast, but the last four holes you played, the greens really dried out, you almost kind of‑‑ they are so brown in places‑‑

Q.   Is speed the biggest thing?
BOB ESTES:   Well, they did get a lot firmer.   So at least they are not‑‑ at least they real fairly true but they are just so fast, that a putt that you think is just up near the hole might easily go five, six, eight feet by the hole. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT