U.S. SENIOR OPEN
June 29, 2019
Bob Estes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  There's a lot of red and there's a lot of green on your card.  That means you went up and down a little bit.  
BOB ESTES: Yeah, it was a pretty erratic round.  Lots of good golf and lots of bad, and my scorecard reflects that.  But, you know, I haven't been able to practice very much, so I'm not sharp as I would be.  Plus I'm just kind of getting back into the flow.  It's only my second tournament in three months.  Some of the shots that I hit are kind of to be expected, and some of the shots I mis-hit I'm still kind of working on, and hopefully I'll be better in the future.   
 Q.  Are you usually a patient sort out there when things are going badly?  
BOB ESTES: Yeah, I've always been really patient.  That's been one of the main qualities that's helped me survive for so long.  As much bad golf as I've played, I've had to stay patient, yeah, to keep the career going.   
 Q.  The way the golf course was playing today, were there any differences that were noticeable to you, whether it was on the greens -- the winds changed a little bit.  
BOB ESTES: Yeah, it was mainly the wind.  The fairways are firming up some.  Each day they've gotten a little bit firmer, so you've got to be careful there, and a time or two, I maybe hit the wrong club off the tee, but most of the time made the right decision as far as what club to put me in position.   
But the wind was the main thing, switching from southwest to a little more northwest, and you kind of have to pay attention to where you tee it up and your shot shape and things like that.   
It makes a lot of those tee shots play quite a bit different when it switches like that.   
 Q.  Did a lot of the recovering that you had to do today put any more stress on your elbow, and were you kind of tentative --  
BOB ESTES: No, no elbow issues.  I guess the Advil works pretty well, and the therapy that I got before.  No, it's always sore after, so I've got to ice it a few times after every round and no practice after just to make sure it doesn't get worse.  I don't think it's going to get better until next week when I've got some days off.   
But no, some of the places that I hit it, the rough was -- there was only one place where the rough was so bad right of 15, that was a terrible tee shot, and having to just kind of pitch it down the fairway to the left, that's the only one where if I swung hard, it could have jarred it a little bit.   
But that wasn't the play anyway with the pin on the right front right over the corner of the water, and that ball could have gone anywhere.  So yeah, no issues with the elbow.   
 Q.  What's the mindset that you have going into tomorrow on the final day of the U.S. Senior Open?  
BOB ESTES: Pretty much the same as today starting out.  And then we'll see how Steve finishes.  And then early in the round tomorrow, you just -- you never know.  I'll kind of keep an eye on the scoreboard to see where he is, and of course I'll know where I am.   
But for the most part, like I was saying yesterday, the golf course pretty much kind of tells you how to play it, and so the only thing that you would do different for the most part is maybe just attack a few more of the flags that maybe you're a little too cautious down the center.  Usually when you're playing down the center of the green, you're not going to have a very long putt anyway.   
So might have to maybe shoot at a few more pins to have a chance, but we'll just have to wait and see how the round kind of evolves in those first five, six holes or so.   
 Q.  You bounced back from back-to-back bogeys with a birdie and a great up-and-down on 18.  How did you do that today?  
BOB ESTES: Yeah, well, the round was so chaotic for me anyway that I kind of just got used to making a lot of bogeys and birdies and having to scramble some.  Yeah, I just barely mis-hit my wedge on 16, and so it buried in the face of the bunker, so I didn't have much of a chance to get that one very close.  So it was nice to birdie 17 after those two bogeys, like you said.   
And then of course to finish with a par putt like that was really nice.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT