GINN SUR MER CLASSIC AT TESORO
October 27, 2007
Bob Estes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   BOB ESTES:  I made three bogies.  I hit one, hit a poor first putt on the first hole.  A poor tee shot on the sixth, and the wind switched on me a little bit on my approach shot on 8 after a good second shot.  So those are my three bogies.  I made birdies but I made too many bogies. 

 Q.  Do you feel your swing is there, and you can maybe make a little run tomorrow morning? 
 BOB ESTES:  Oh, yeah.  If I'm making that many birdies, I just need to eliminate some mistakes and keep going, which I'll have to do. 

 Q.  Yeah, how do you feel being in this position going into tomorrow? 
 BOB ESTES:  It feels great.  That's where I want to be.  I'd rather have a big lead, you know.  Some guys, you know are afraid of the lead.  I love having the lead.  I want as big a lead as I can get.  You know, for making those three bogies, to be tied for the lead is still pretty good. 

 Q.  Yeah, it's been a little bit of a distraction, take you out of your rhythm a little bit?  No, you did finish yesterday, didn't you? 
 BOB ESTES:  Yeah, that worked out real well.  Played late early.  It was nice to get finished up, and have all that time yesterday afternoon and this evening and this morning to get around. 

 Q.  How about not being able to finish today and having to finish tomorrow morning before your final round?  Does that throw you off your rhythm a little bit? 
 BOB ESTES:  I'm sorry, say that again? 

 Q.  Not being able to finish today, and having to finish your third round tomorrow and playing another full round - does that throw you a little bit? 
 BOB ESTES:  No, I don't mind playing more holes.  Sometimes I play better when I get to play more holes.  So I have no problem with that at all. 

 Q.  And the course today, did it dry out at all? 
 BOB ESTES:  No, no.  I hit a number of shots ... 

 Q.  So the course stayed pretty wet throughout the day? 
 BOB ESTES:  Yeah, I hit a number of shots and the other guys, too, where the ball's just embedded in the fairway.  Just picking up mud because it's just embedded. 
 I had one that I could hardly see on 7 after my second shot.  It was really wet, really muddy and really sloppy. 

 Q.  Did it affect the greens a little bit more? 
 BOB ESTES:  The greens are a little firmer than you might think based on how wet the fairways are.  So those are raised up and they have a different base.  Some of the greens are releasing and shorter irons are backing up. 
 So you just have to be aware of what kind of shots you're hitting and where the slopes are. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT