WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 23, 2002
Bob Estes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 BOB ESTES:    My game was a little bit sloppy.  It was a little bit sloppy in every match.  I have not been hitting it as well as I have been, especially the last year or so.  I think I need to work on it a little bit.  I've got it kind of figured out for the most part. 
Paul beat me on the par 5's for the most part.  I drove it in the rough on all four par 5s; made par on every one and I think I hit every green.  I was putting it great on every par 5, but I missed all of them.  And Paul birdied all four of the par  5s; so that basically was the difference in the match.

Q.  Mentally, in general, do you think players start wearing down, as far as the grind, day after day, hole after hole; is it harder today than it was Wednesday?
BOB ESTES:   No.  Actually, I felt better yesterday  -- you know, early in the week you hate to lose in the first round or second round, because in this format you want to keep playing.  It's almost like kind of like when I'm in contention in a tournament, I almost feel better later in the tournament, especially if I have a lead, as opposed to earlier in the week.  I just get more relaxed and comfortable with my position when I'm playing well and around the leader or have a lead. 
Yeah, it can wear you down mentally somewhat, but as long as you are not practicing too much and you are getting enough rest, it's not that big of a deal.

Q.  What was the hole or two that was kind of the turning point or the crucial part of the match?
BOB ESTES:   I guess it probably would have been  -- he birdied 12, but then I came back and birdied 13 and got it back to even.  I guess he birdied 16, as well.  I'm trying to remember now.  I was so focused on the par 5's. 
Yeah, when he birdied 15 to go 1-up, you know, he was in the driver's seat.  If you're 1-up with two or three holes to go, you're in good position.  So that was pretty much it.

Q.  Paul said that for his own game, he says right now he's hitting it better than he's hit it in a couple of years.  Do you notice that he's playing better or hitting the ball more crisp, just better iron shots than he has in the past?
BOB ESTES:   Well, we haven't really played together that much.  But it seems like he hit almost every fairway, and most of his iron shots were at the flag or near it, and his short game was really sharp, too.  His short game was solid.  He's going to be tough to beat.

Q.  You said you played well; does this help ease the pain a little bit?
BOB ESTES:   Yeah, winning three matches  -- sure, I wanted to take it all the way, but at least I'm still playing some pretty good golf and I know that I have to adjust and improve and keep on playing better.  It's still early in the year; so I feel pretty good about it. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT