WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 22, 2002
Bob Estes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Talk about the match a little bit in general? 
BOB ESTES:   Got off to a real fast start, birdies on 1, 2 and 4.  I think getting off to a fast start was very important in the match, you certainly want to get off to a quick start.  I also made some pars, but Nick bogeyed on 5 and 6 and I parred both those holes, so I think.  Then I had a chance to go 4-up with a short birdie putt.   I think I was 3-up at that time.  And then I had a chance to go 4-up with a short birdie putt on 10 that didn't convert.

Q.  He made a move on you on the later holes.
BOB ESTES:   Yeah, he birdied 11.  Then I guess he  -- I didn't have any bogeys all day, so I didn't give him too much of a chance.  He through a couple of birdies at me and might have been closer than I wanted it to be, but I'm happy to have won. 

Q.  How many times have you played in this format throughout the years?
BOB ESTES:   Two years ago we played here and I won a couple of matches.  I had a couple of good wins under my belt and I enjoy match-play.  I think I've got a pretty good demeanor and attitude.  I try not to worry too much what the other guy is doing.  I try to hit good shots, putts, don't get too uptight and not worry about it too much.  Because you can play good and still lose your match.  So I'm just trying to do my thing, and, you know, it's not that often you really have to change your strategy. 

Q.  Now you'll face Azinger, talk about that.
BOB ESTES:   He's a great player.  I don't know how he's playing right now, but I'm sure he must be playing pretty well.  He loves match-play and he's tough to go up against because he's not going to give you anything.

Q.  What about Fasth, do you know anything about him?
BOB ESTES:   Just played with him at the Open Championship, so I guess we are hearing his name more and more.

Q.  What's your game plan for the weekend?
BOB ESTES:   Besides winning all three matches, just  -- I don't have a game plan.  I'm just playing golf and, you know, I still pretty much have to play it like a stroke-play tournament.  It's not often you have to really change your strategy on each hole.  I pretty much just play the hole and see what happens. 

Q.  Hypothetical, what would you think of a format change in the future that made it medal play for three days and then a cut; the low 16 would then play match-play, as a way for television to improve its chances of getting some of the marquis players around for the weekend.  What would you think of that?
BOB ESTES:   I think it's a good idea.  I remember playing the Western Amateur and I think that was 72 holes, and then I think they had 16 players make it to match-play.  So that was a lot of fun.  That would be fine with me.  I know television doesn't like to seat top players in the world get knocked out early, and that's what you're going to have in match-play because on any particular day; if somebody gets off to a fast start, gets a couple of good breaks, you might knock off one of the big guns early after 14, 15 holes.Maybe playing 36 holes isn't too bad of an idea.  I know what you're saying about the exciting matches, 1 and 64 out there in the very beginning; but maybe 36 holes of stroke-play and then see what you have and do it that way.  Either way, that's fine with me.  I enjoy The Match Play.  It's just one week out of the year, so obviously it's more important for television to have the top players there every week, but for me it's just one week out of the year.




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT