WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2013
Bob Estes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Bob, for some reason you get drawn with John Huh and Jordan Spieth tomorrow, you add their ages together, you'll be five years older than both them.   
How does that feel?  
BOB ESTES:   I have a lot of experience, don't I?   Yeah.   Somebody was talking on the putting green today, talking about the three guys in the last group.   I think the oldest one is maybe 23.   Yeah, hopefully I will be in the last group.  
   
 Q.   You started playing what, around age 4 and decided you wanted to be on the PGA TOUR when you were 12 years old.   So you've got a little experience yourself.   1988, was that your first year?  
BOB ESTES:   I played five events in '88 out of college.   My true rookie year was 1989.  
   
 Q.   How has the game changed since then with these kids that are playing now as far as they hit it and you've always been wanting to keep yourself in amazing shape.   Has that made a difference as you're in your mid 40s now?  
BOB ESTES:   For sure.   I always planned on having a long career so I knew I needed to keep in shape.   I have a great trainer at home, a great chiropractor, massage therapist and try to eat well and supplement properly and stuff like that.   You know, good genes, lot of sunscreen, all that you have.   
   
 Q.   Anything in you getting caught up with some of these kids tomorrow?  
BOB ESTES:   I play the golf course.   I've always been very strategic.   That's probably why I'm doing better than some of the guys who may hit it further than me right now.   
You have to keep the ball below the hole and I'm sure a lot of guys aren't keeping it below the hole and paying the price.  
   
 Q.   You don't have to hit it far, just less often.   Good luck tomorrow.  
Bob, let's start with the finish, the birdies on 16, 17 and, oh so close on 18.   Take us through those.  
BOB ESTES:   Don't forget 15.  
   
 Q.   We love it.  
BOB ESTES:   Seemed like up to that point I was trying to save par, two-putt from 40, 50 feet all day.   I didn't hit it that great, didn't hit it close to the hole.   Those three birdies.   Like I said, I almost birdied the last hole.   That was pretty much my round.  
   
 Q.   Certainly your veteran background came into play with the rain was up, down, wind situation.   You handled it so brilliantly.  
BOB ESTES:   Never blew very hard or rained too hard.   Kind of annoying at times and the ground is really wet, muddy so sloppy.   Lot of times it's hard to feel like you're hitting really crisp iron shots.   
I just tried to play smart and keep it below the hole and guess I only -- I had messed up one time really as far as not short-siding myself but besides that, I pretty much left it in the correct places.  
   
 Q.   Tell me about being in contention and the outlook for tomorrow for the final round.  
BOB ESTES:   I'm looking forward to it.   I think it's supposed to rain a lot tomorrow.   We'll see.   The course is already so wet and so sloppy from all the rain prior that it pretty much just play the same tomorrow and keep the ball in play, keep it in the fairway.   
The rough is not too bad but you still lose some control even though the rough is not as long as it could be.   You got to keep the ball below the hole and play smart.  
   
 Q.   Good you can luck tomorrow.  
BOB ESTES:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   Bob, considering the conditions, what did you do so well today to post that number?  
BOB ESTES:   I didn't hit it that great.   Seemed like I was 30, 40, 50 feet from the hole all day through the first 14 holes but I did a lot of good lag putt, got it up and down a couple times when I needed to.  
   
 Q.   That closing stretch that you had with all those birdies, is that a momentum builder that you can carryover into the next day or is it just separated?  
BOB ESTES:   It puts me into the best position obviously but I'm not -- I wouldn't say gives me that much confidence.   Maybe it's more about some of the shots that I hit, like I hit a great 3-wood back into the wind on to the green on 15 that allowed me to two-putt to make birdie.   Shots like that.   
Then the tee shot on 18, you know, I hit that one really well.   Yeah, it was nice to make the birdies on 15, 16 and 17 but maybe it's more about just those specific shots or putts that you might make.  
   
 Q.   You've been out here for a long time.   I mean that as a compliment.   You got a chance to win tomorrow.   What emotions do you need to manage to make that happen?  
BOB ESTES:   I'm usually pretty good at managing my emotions.   I just play my game like you always hear.   This is that kind golf course, too, you really have to think your way around it.   
It's not driver off every tee.   3-wood, rescue clubs, 4, 5-woods.   You really got to keep the ball below the hole.   It plays into my hands as far as just the type of golf course that it is and then it's just a matter of executing.  
   
 Q.   Covered you from '88 to '89 here.  
BOB ESTES:   '89 was my first year.   I probably played Forest Oaks in '89.   No, you know what, I think I missed it my first couple of years.   Just because my second year or third year I was trying to -- had to take a week off every once in awhile so I think -- because the way the schedule was, I think I missed it so then I think I missed it my second.  
   
 Q.   You're chasing, do you think the experience factor will help you tomorrow?  
BOB ESTES:   It could.   You know, just depends on how well I matchup, you know, execution with experience.   Because, you know, you got to play smart going around this golf course.   You can't short-side yourself.   
As fasts the greens are and with the slopes, you're not going to be able to get the ball up and down in certain places and it's really difficult to two-putt, you know, for pars or whatever in certain places.  
So, yeah, you really got to keep the ball in position all the way around.  
   
 Q.   Talk about today and the conditions, seemed like a long time out there for you guys, somewhat slow going or no?  
BOB ESTES:   Yeah.   Yeah.   When you're playing lift, clean and place it takes longer and, you know, when you're not able to make a lot of birdies, you know, lot of times we were not very close to the hole.   
We maybe all missed the green or all got 50, 60 footers for birdie.   It's difficult as these greens are to putt or chip around, it's just -- it's going to take a little bit longer.   
Not many balls are stopping next to the hole.   If you roll one up there within a foot or foot and a half, you've hit a great putt, great chip because most of the time you're having to make four, five, six-footers coming back it seems like.  
   
 Q.   What's it going to take for tomorrow?  
BOB ESTES:   First of all, we have to make sure we get to play, make sure it doesn't rain another couple of inches but no, I'm sure the course will probably play about the way it did today whether it's, you know, raining or not.   Kind of like it is now.  
So, just the way the course is, the way the greens are, you know, it's difficult to shoot a low score especially in conditions like this.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT