U.S. OPEN
September 2, 1995
Brenda Schultz-McCarthy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Did you feel that that injury timeout was supervised properly? The reason I ask is
the three-minute time period wasn't imposed until after there had already been a three- or
four-minute break, that is what why I ask. 

BRENDA SCHULTZ-McCARTHY: I don't know, really know what the rule is. Only thing I try
to do is, you know, try not to think about it too hard; just because I was playing really
well too, 5-2 and I was doing the right thing. Even if she wouldn't be injured, she had
troubles with getting some of those shots. So I was just focusing trying to -- trying to
keep my game plan going, and I didn't really worry about the book, what the rule was.
Because if you start worrying about that, then you know, it doesn't really help. So -- and
I continued to play very well, so I don't think that long innjury timeout really hurt me.
It was just at 2-Love, she hit a couple of really good shots and, you know, then I start
thinking, oh, gosh, maybe the injury is not that bad. I just have to keep playing my game,
and I kind of start worrying about it a little bit; before I knew it, I was 4-2 down
because I wasn't playing against -- I wasn't playing the game. I was just playing against
her, pretty much. And that wasn't too smart, but then I got back luckily, so...

Q. What was your plan? You said you just wanted to continue with your plan. 

BRENDA SCHULTZ-McCARTHY: I just wanted to chip and charge a lot, come in; make her move
to the corner, and make her hit passing shot off balance, kind of not right hitting it
right to her, but let her move. Then she have to hit the passing shot from a difficult
position of the court and that was working really well; especially when I got her off the
court and I come in, I hit -- she had troubles passing me. When I hit it right at her, she
passed me pretty well. When she was on the run, especially going to the forehand, she had
a lot of troubles.

Q. Was your plan different than when you had opposed her before? You had won another
match against her. Did you pursue the same sort of plan before?

BRENDA SCHULTZ-McCARTHY: I don't know. When did I play her before? 

Q. Five years ago. 

BRENDA SCHULTZ-McCARTHY: I don't even remember that. I did remember that I played her
once before, but did I lose? 

Q. Yes. 

BRENDA SCHULTZ-McCARTHY: That is why I forgot. 

Q. How did you feel you served today?

BRENDA SCHULTZ-McCARTHY: It was windy, you know, this morning. It wasn't my best
warmup. I think the other mornings I was warmed up much better. This morning, actually, I
figured, hey, it is not going to be pretty because with the wind it is also hard to play
pretty tennis. But that is why I kept the game plan like it was, like very short, not long
rallies. I had the feeling at the beginning, we had a couple of long rallies, actually,
and I was waiting them. But my serve is my best weapon, but it is so hard, and it is so --
there is a lot of speed. So when the wind takes it a little bit, sometimes the toss goes a
little off and I still want to hit it 110 miles an hour and that sometimes doesn't always
work. Especially, at the end I was placing it really well. I was placing it right to her
forehand. She couldn't really move to that corner too well, so, you know, that helped me
out a lot, that wide serve today.

Q. Kimiko Date next. How do you match up to her?

BRENDA SCHULTZ-McCARTHY: I don't know. I remember I played her once on clay in Berlin.
I beat her 4-4. It was a tough match, but she had a lot of troubles with some high topspin
because I was playing to her and on the hard court here, it is just totally different
ballgame than on clay, so you know I have played a very good match against her, so that
tells me mixing it up would be a good plan to play. She is a tough hard court player. I
would be very happy to beat her. She is 7th seeded, so it would be good.

Q. Definitely winnable match for you, Brenda?

BRENDA SCHULTZ-McCARTHY: I think everything is winnable. I mean, if I am on and my
serve is on and, you know, my game is on, I can beat a lot of people, but it is just -- I
won the first three rounds, normally that is a good sign. I grow in a tournament and
Wimbledon I made that quarters, but it was kind of like I wanted to reach the quarters so
bad and I had a couple of round of 16's before that; I kind of got caught up -- wanted to
get to the quarters; I think I got over that in Wimbledon, I made the quarters so that is
not a big deal anymore. So here, it is just a matter of, you know, winning the match. It
doesn't matter if it is fourth round or first round; just I hope I play a good match
against her and, you know, hope I can play the game the way I want to and I have a day
rest tomorrow so I can practice on a couple of things. 

Q. Brenda, have you looked at the 1996 WTA schedule yet?

BRENDA SCHULTZ-McCARTHY: Sure.

Q. As you know there are some changes in there particularly around Delray time so
instead of going from Delray directly to Lipton, it is now Delray, Indian Wells, back to
Lipton. As a top woman pro, when you look at that schedule, are you thinking about trying
to play all three of us or what do you think most of the women are going to want to do
with these three tournaments? 

BRENDA SCHULTZ-McCARTHY: I think some of them are going to any Indian Wells and Lipton
and some of them are going to play Delray Beach and stay in Florida; practice a couple of
days and get ready for the Lipton. I mean, it is normally always a heavy schedule. I play
Australia; then you get back for two weeks, you play Chicago, Oklahoma, Delray Beach,
Lipton, it is a tough schedule, so this year it is going to be actually a little easier on
me. I am just going to play Australia. There is no Chicago. I am just going to play
Oklahoma, Delray Beach, Lipton. Every tournament I have a couple of weeks ago; what I
like. I could practice on a couple of things. Normally after a tournament you get caught
up in some mistakes, but you can't really change it because the next tournament is coming
up; you have a couple of days, but you cannot really do anything in that. For me, I like
it a lot to, first of all, I am at home after Delrey Beach, ten days at home; then I play
Lipton, so I am close to Delray also, and I kind of like the schedule. 

Q. You are going to skip Indian Wells?

BRENDA SCHULTZ-McCARTHY: Yes.

Q. For other top players, how difficult is it to go west coast, east coast, back to the
east coast; do you think that is a consideration for them?

BRENDA SCHULTZ-McCARTHY: Yeah, but it is a tough -- but they have a couple of days off
after Indian Wells and Lipton because Lipton starts on Saturday and Indian Wells will be
finished on Sunday. So they are going to have five days off so I think everybody is going
to be fine. 

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT