U.S. OPEN
August 31, 1995
Brenda Schultz-McCarthy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. In the first two sets there seemed to be a variety of shots and approaches by you.
Was that your play or was she dictating that?
 
 BRENDA SCHULTZ-McCARTHY: She was dictating that. She hits very good from the baseline,
and I had the feeling when I would play the rally with her she would have a better chance
of winning it than I did. So when I was on the baseline, I tried to mix it up, tried to
hit a looping shot or short slice that she didn't come with the rhythym. But even if I had
some good slices, she would rip it to the other corner, and I would be on the run. And she
didn't miss too many, so I guess I was just very happy. My serve started going so well
because that happened -- helped me out a lot at important -- because I would hit an ace,
and I could dictate the match a little bit more when my serve starts going the way it
should be going. But on other serve, I tried to mix it up; then I broke her twice in the
second set -- break her to go 6-3. It was good. But, you know, I went for a lot of shots.
I had to take a lot of risk. It wasn't now, oh, now, I broke her and it was risky game. I
had to play on the top of my game to get a game. So I kept hanging in there, and I think I
played a good match for -- especially compared to the first round. 
 
Q. The first game of the third set, there didn't seem to be any variety into your serve
112, 110, 112, 109. It fell together or you decided heat was the best way to get out of
this?
 
 BRENDA SCHULTZ-McCARTHY: No, I guess I just finally found the motion that I was looking
for in my serve. And I tried to keep doing the same thing and those four serves definitely
were the same motion, the same exact thing. That is very hard to do. And then, you know,
it is hard again because I had to serve the next game, but when you don't hit four aces
like you kind of start counting on it. You have to play the rally. It was 15-30; you are
like, oh, my gosh, I need an ace. You forget that you can also win the rally a couple of
times, but it is hard if you are serving really well, sometimes -- she doesn't get in a
rhythm, but I don't get in a rhythm either. So I hang in there in the third set, and I was
very happy to finish it up because she is a very good player.  
 
Q. Do you think sometimes that you do rely on the serve too much and that it maybe
hurts the other parts of your game?
 
 BRENDA SCHULTZ-McCARTHY: I did that when I was a kid a lot. I think I relied on it a
lot when I was younger, now I started realizing that the rest of my game also has to be
very good to both these girls because you cannot just hit aces all the time. You have to
be ready for some returns and backhands and most of the girls return my serve really well
if I don't hit it 114 away from them. Even when I hit it 114 right at them, she would just
hit it and it comes back faster, so it is very hard. I mean, they all -- my weapon is my
serve and most of the girls' weapon is their return, so it is -- I just have to do a lot
of variety and that has been helping me out a lot lately. First set I hit a lot of kick
serves. Then I can mix it up to go to the fast one. First I couldn't do that. I could only
hit the first one. I could not hit the kick serve. Now at least I have the opportunity to
mix it up. I thought she would have a lot of trouble with the kicking one which would kick
up; she just stepped in on it and nailed it. It wasn't working like I thought it would be
working. I had to change it up and I did change it and I hang in there and I guess it was
tough to lose that first set because, you know, I was playing not bad. I mean, the first
set, I was getting balls back, and I was running a lot of balls down, so, I figure I would
hang in there. I broke her first game, and I think that helped me a lot. Then I felt a
little bit more confidence to hold serve. When you right away break, because it is hot out
there you say okay. I got to break so I keep holding on to it, and I -- then she has to
break me. So that is a totally different ball game than -- when she breaks me, she wins
the set. So I think I got the break in the second set which really helped me out a lot.  
 
Q. A lot of people look at the serve 110 -- at the serve 110 miles an hour, 112 and
they wonder why you can't be a top 10 player, or even better than that?
 
 BRENDA SCHULTZ-McCARTHY: I guess I have a lot of weaknesss. My serve is really good,
but, you know, there are some other parts of my game that are not too good. I am not the
most steadiest person out there. There are lot of girls that are very steady; they don't
miss shots. My shots are more variety. Sometimes it doesn't go as well as others. Maybe I
am not that focused out there as a lot of other girls are. I have a lot of different
things going on every time when really things start working for me, I have some troubles
or some other things this year, and, you know, it is a matter of hanging in there and that
is what I am doing trying to get slowly through the top 10; maybe not like a rocket, but
slowly. But surely, I am getting closer, so... 
 
Q. When you were in New Haven last week you had some discussions about a warmup
tournament for the U.S. Open for the women in New Haven. Have there been any discussions?
 
 BRENDA SCHULTZ-McCARTHY: I did bring it up in a player's meeting and they just said
that it is sometimes very hard for the top players because they -- we have a couple of
exempt players in our Tour like Steffi and Arantxa and those players - and I was talking
to them I said "What about if you play New Haven as a tournament?" "They
said, yeah, we have to win four rounds before a Grand Slam." So I brought it up and
they are talking about it. They didn't think it was a bad idea. But they have to change
the rules like before Wimbledon next year got to have one tournament in Holland, Rosmalen
and one in Eastbourne and you got to have an average. Even if you lose first round, they
give you average. If you do better than average, then they give you more points, your
ranking will go up. That is not as much pressure for the top players like a Grand Slam. So
it is not that easy to change it like that. They were talking about it. I made my point. I
like New Haven a lot and I was -- I thought I could try to bring it up. At least it is
always nice to have a warmup tournament before the Open, but I can see the top player's
point that they are going to have a hard two weeks. They don't want to be burned out right
before that. So, you know, it is always tough because you have to have a final Saturday,
so that means, you play four matches in a short period of time. But I did bring it up, so
I hope maybe not this year, not next year, but maybe the year after who knows.... 
 
Q. Based on the way that both of you played today, how do you feel about your chances
the rest of the tournament?
 
 BRENDA SCHULTZ-McCARTHY: After my first round, it didn't give me a lot of chances. I
thought I played really bad. I was just hanging in there, but it wasn't a pretty match. I
guess I learned a lot from that match because I was kind of pushing them back and today I
hit the ball more out. I was going more for it, and I was a little bit more aggressive
because I knew if I wouldn't be aggressive, the girl would walk all over me. So I was
going for a little bit more risky shots, but it paid off today. So I think the next round,
I have to do the same thing. I just have to go for it, and that is what everybody does
this time. All these young kids I am watching on television, Rios and Enqvist and Halard
-- they are going for it, they are just going for it. They don't hold back. They play to
win. They don't play to lose and I have been playing a couple of matches lately that I
didn't want to lose and I realized that I got away with it the first round, but I won't
get away with it against this girl. I think I changed my attitude and I think it was good
to win today because I went for it. Especially last couple of points, I hit out, and it
paid off.  
 
Q. Getting back to the ranking one second, you made the big jump last year from the
40's down to about where you are right now, you kind of flattened out this year. Is it
frustrating? I know you talked about moving slowly to the top 10, but after that big jump,
is it frustrating to have slowed down a little bit?
 
 BRENDA SCHULTZ-McCARTHY: No, it is very hard to make that next jump again. From the
40's to the 14th that is a very hard job because when you are 40, you are never seeded, so
you can draw Steffi first round, or Monica first round. You play a good match, but you
just don't win it. Happens to a lot of girls. A lot of girls good out there who are 30,
40, but they have a couple of bad draws -- in women's tennis, every tournament counts, so
it is very hard. Now I make this step to go to the 14th. I am seeded now in Grand Slams;
it is easy to make your first three rounds and then the next step is to win in the
quarters, or, you know, to get to the semis and get a couple of good wins when you get to
the quarters. Like in Wimbledon I got to the round of 16. I did my seeding and then I get
to the quarters; I beat Arantxa that I had a chance -- you go to top 10 like that. That is
the next step. I guess I never really get disappointed by it. I think I will get there
some day and might not go like a lot of young players, they go really quick, and sometimes
they go back really quick. So it might take me a little bit longer; might stay there a
little bit longer.  
 
End of FastScripts....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT