THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 17, 1994
Brenda Schultz-McCarthy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I would imagine that there in the second set you began
to think you were going to do what you did yesterday, or the day
before rather.

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  No, I wasn't thinking about that, actually.
 I was just thinking I was actually doing the right game plan
and I was just taking it point by point, and I think the key point
in the second set was 5-4, 15-Love and I just hit the lob out
and that's normally my favorite shot.  You know, if it's on her
serve Love-30 all the pressure is on her, and I was playing the
right game to get back in the match, and it took me a while to
figure out how to play.  It's just different.  I've never been
in semifinal big tournament like this.  I was too pumped up before
I came on the court, I was really nervous, you know.  She has
been there before, she's been in the finals, you know, I think
she felt pretty comfortable with the whole thing.  Especially
if you can't get a game, it's so hard, you want to go under the
hardcourt, under the surface, you know. It was very tough for
me and I kept fighting and it almost got me out of there, but
I just couldn't make it.

 Q.  Were you impressed by the whole scenery, the stadium and
all the people around?

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  I've played in the stadium, but for me when
I serve it is harder, it is so big and I have the feeling I serve
more long.  In the first set, my serve was just off and I -- maybe
I want to hit it harder because it is so much bigger center court,
I had it before when I played Sabatini in the French and I also
served really bad in the first set, then I got back in the second,
but it was too late also, you know, maybe I had to warm-up more
in the center court, but they only give you half an hour, it's
difficult.  It's totally different atmosphere, it's different.
 But in the second set I really got used to it, but it was just
a little bit too late, it was too bad.

 Q.  So about your game plan, did patience come into the picture
as well?

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  Yeah, the thing was I played her before in Chicago
and I was really patient and I just got  -- I lost, actually,
with patience.  I guess it was indoors and I couldn't really get
the high topspin, and this time I went on the court, and when
I went in, she was passing me left and right, so I was like, okay,
this time I'm going to be very patient and I'm just going to wait
for the right time, but I couldn't get the rally.  I was just
missing all my backhand and I wasn't really overhitting, I didn't
time it right.  I guess I was just little bit tight.  I guess
it's normal and it's just later on I started hitting very high
topspin, I was like okay, if I can't get it over the net, let's
just put two meters in the corner and just get it in, at least
in the court, and then she started missing a lot.

 Q.  That seemed pretty clever, she was --

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  Yes, it was clever, but too late.  But next
time I know.

 Q.  Did you do the diary again?

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  Yes, I did.  And I'm going to keep doing it
because that wasn't the reason I lost, I believed in myself a
lot, but she just played -- I didn't play as well as I played
against Aranxta and I think Aranxta is also a different player,
again.  Aranxta doesn't hurt me and Natasha hurts me, she hits
very well slice and they stayed very low.  Her forehand is really
good.  I mean, she hit some very good forehands today.  She has
great passing shots and, you know, against Aranxta I felt less
pressure than against Natasha.  Natasha can play very good and
everybody knows that, but sometimes, you know, her mind is not
there, whatever.  I mean I practiced with her for a year, with
Juan Nunez together, and I know she can play incredible, and other
days she is a little bit less and I think today she played very
good.  I started off bad, and then in the end I came back, but
it's too bad.

 Q.  What you saw this evening of Zvereva's play, do you think
she can beat Graff?

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  She has a good chance because I never saw Graff
play high topspin in her life, you know, if Natalia plays like
this today, I think she has the chance to beat anybody, you know,
it's like she almost beat her before, you know, she lost one 6-0,
6-0, but in the French last year she lost 6-4 in the third and
she was pretty close, so she has the ability to do, you know,
to make it a good final at least.  I hope she does, women's tennis
needs it.

 Q.   When you hit that miss hit the moonball that made it
5 to 2 in the second set, you must be thinking, wow, this just
isn't my day, Huh?

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  Yeah, I guess I was thinking that.

 Q.  Well, right after that you came back and won the next
few games; you looked like you were getting right back in it.

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  Yeah, those last two games I played different,
I played totally different ballgame.  I start hitting very high
topspin, and that ball I hit in the fence, I was trying to do
that, but it didn't quite work as well in the other two games.
But I knew that was the only way out, to do something because
I tried to come in, I tried to rally with her, I tried to move
her around, and nothing worked, really.  And then the last two
games, I finally started looping the ball, but that's not my game
at all, actually, it's like really last way out and then that
worked.  So next time when I play her, I have to start that way.


 Q.  Actually, what was the diary message, I will beat Natalia?

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  Yeah, it's just something I did a long time
ago and it worked.  You know, I'm pretty superstitious, actually,
a lot, so I did it again, but, you know, it is a matter of believing
in myself.  I got a lot of confidence out of this tournament,
you know, it was too bad I lost first set 6-0, but at least the
second set I came back. I just have to go on like this.  This
was the first big tournament I reached the semis; what did I expect.
 I just have to build up and get next time again semis and get
a better break semis.  It is just round-by-round.  I'm going to
practice for the clay tournaments and keep working as I'm doing
right now and I think that's the most important thing, don't get
down on myself after this match because I did really well.  I
beat number 2 in the world.  First time in the semis big tournament,
I've never been in the quarters in the big tournament, you know,
I think I should just go on like this and keep fighting.

 Q.  So how superstitious are you?

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  Very superstitious.  I think every tennis player
or every top sportsman has some superstitions, you know, it's
like my favorite headband, you know, I won't wear this headband
any more in my life, I think.

 Q.  Burn it.

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  Never throw it away.  You know, that's life.
 It gives you some more confidence, sometimes.

 Q.  Do you have like a strict routine before you step out
on the court, something like you do step-by-step before you go
out of the lockerroom?

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  No, not that yet.  I listen to my walkman before
I go on, make some sprints get a sweat.

 Q.  What music did you have?

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  Some soft rock. 

  End of FastScripts....


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT