THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 15, 1994
Brenda Schultz-McCarthy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  First time you have ever beaten her. What was different
this time?

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  I think the difference this time was that I
believed I could do it.  I played her a lot of times, but I always
had my doubts, and we are very good friends and I was always,
I don't know, this time, I wrote down last night ten times, okay
I am going to beat her I am better, I am better, and I did it.
 And I think if I wouldn't have believed it that much, I would
never have won the tiebreaker 6-1 down.

 Q.  You must have started to doubt yourself, though, a little
bit after the first set?

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  Not really.  I lost the first set.  I knew exactly
what I did wrong and it was just -- it wasn't that I was playing
her wrong, but I was just missing the setups.  I was serving to
her forehand coming in at the right time, but I was just like,
balls right up at the net and I would play the volley out or something,
so I was don't think, you know, she is beating you, it is just
that, you know, you have very good chance in the second set if
you keep playing the same thing.  It  was very good that I kept
with her.  I could hold my serve and I kept pressing her, and
it was just -- she had to win every point to -- she had to play
well.

 Q.  Brenda, do you say you wrote it down?

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  I did.

 Q.  On a piece of paper?

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  Yeah, Juan Nunez told me once like because I
have a lot of troubles with confident and I don't believe that
I could be top 10 or a lot of things that people telling me, I
say, yes, yes, and right now, I really believed it.  I was like,
I am good, I am better.  Made me feel really good about myself
this last months.  I have been working really hard these last
three months.  It has been paying off.  I am working with Richard
Ben fin.  He is a very good guy.  I practiced with him the whole
month of January.  We did a lot of physical.  I think that was
also one of the reasons I could hang in there with her because
she brings a lot of balls back and we had a lot of rallies going.
 I felt physical really in shape. I was like, you are not going
to tire me out or anything.  If you want to stay here for four
hours, I will be here.  So I had a lot of confidence, and I always
had some troubles in the past year with the coaches.  I know it
is hard to understand for a lot of people what actually a coach
does and what it means to have a coach with you.  I had a hard
time understanding it myself, actually.  And I guess a lot of
girls have a hard time because a lot of girls are switching coaches
a lot and, you know, alone, it is one thing alone you can't do
it on this tour.  It is very hard work.  Especially me, I need
somebody to motivate me, and as long as somebody said, do this,
do this, do that, I will do anything somebody telling me, but
I have a hard time doing it myself.  I think it is very important
to have a coach, but the technical part, it is sometimes hard
to work on the technical part on the tour.  So there are some
coaches, they want to change something with you and you are nervous
and it doesn't work, so you decide to take another coach, but
that doesn't necessarily mean that that coach is bad.  It is very
hard to work on your game when you are on the tour.  I was working
with Juan Nunez for like three years.  I started to--  I said
to him, okay, I come to you whenever I feel a need to work on
a shot.  I did and we have been working on my forehand quite a
bit now.  When I am on the tour I just don't think about it. 
I just hit it.  It has been going very well.  Richard has been
working on the physical part and Juan on the technical part. That
is exactly what I happened.  It took me six years to figure that
out.  I am very happy and gosh, this win means really a lot to
me.  I hope I can do it all the way.  It is about time.

 Q.  Getting back to where you wrote it down, did you write
it on a piece of paper last night?

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  Yeah, I wrote it last night.  Actually, my boyfriend
told me.  He is like, why are you writing it down, it is good,
and I said, yeah, I wrote it down before and I never believed,
even when I wrote it down I didn't believe it.

 ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO:  Don't lie.

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  I am not.

 Q.  Where is it written, on a pad of paper?

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  Actually my diary.

 Q.  Ten times?

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  Ten times.  Actually 11.  I said to Debbie,
I said, I am going to write it one more time just to make sure.


 Q.  What exactly does it say?

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  It says, I am better, I am better than Arantxa.
 Where is she?  She is going to kill me.

 Q.  I am better than Arantxa 11 times?

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  I think part of the thing is why Arantxa is
so good and why she has a tendency to get the chance to get No.
1, maybe because after every match she goes like that, and, you
know, girls see that, people see that and she has something over
us that is, you know, we are like wow, she really believes she
can be No. 1 and she is getting there.  And I don't know if she
has a lot of talent like a lot of other girls have, but she is
just the biggest fighter, and I had it in my head because I knew
in this match, I had to fight harder than she had.  And it is
tough, believe me because it is in your head.  It is like, she
can come back any time.  So I was just  -- I was, you know, I
am still maybe a little bit I can't believe that I finally did
it.  It is great.  I am going to keep writing every everything
down now.

 Q.  Brenda, would this be the most dramatic comeback you have
made in a match?

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  I have been down 6-Love, 5-Love in one match
and still won it.  But I think against Arantxa who is, you know,
the biggest comebacker of the whole tour herself, you know, to
be 6-1 down in the tiebreaker, I think it is a shock for her too,
because I mean, after that, you know, it is like it is so hared
because she knows she needs only one more point and then the match
keeps getting close and she is like, gosh, I could have finished
already, like an hour ago, and I am still on the court.  So it
is mentally very tough for her.  For me, it is like, hey, I won
seven points in a row, so how did I do that?  Just keep trying
to do the same thing, so for me, I was up in confidence and something
broke in her probably, that is why I probably was able to beat
her in the third set, because normally she is very strong in the
third sets.  I think now I kind of got her in the corner, that
is very unusual for her.

 Q.  On her second matchpoint in that tiebreaker you kind of
caught a hit, a passing shot that was kind of high, you caught
it with your back to the net and you hit --

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  I hit a backhand overhead.

 Q.  It went straight across landed right.

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  Thank you, God.

 Q.  Was that a point where you said, all right, I believe
my game is actually working for me here because you have been
netting a lot of volleys to get though that point.

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  I am kind of unlucky on the net game. I have
been working on it a lot the whole months, practice on serve and
volley and still I am hanging on the baseline.  I think it is
just so hard.  I really have to go in, but then again, I am pretty
good on the baseline, so I get away with it a lot.  When I am
on the net, sometimes I don't really finish the volley.  I push
it back and then they pass me in the next shot.  So, I don't know,
I think it got to be my game in the future to come in more, but
right now, I feel really confident from the baseline still, so.


 Q.  Brenda, is your memory good enough that you can remember
all six points of the tiebreaker?

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  No, I was zoning.  Because somebody told me
I remember that backhand.  Actually, that was pretty lucky.

 Q.  Can you recreate the set point, 8-6?

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  No.  I just -- no, I normally can -- I am normally
really good at remembering points.  I think that tiebreaker just
went by me.  Only thing I thought about is you have to hit it
harder than she does.  You can't stay in that rhythm of hitting
moon balls, because I broke her back and at 6-5 with moon balls,
I would say I call them moon balls, the high topspin, and suddenly
she got in a groove, she didn't make the mistakes anymore.  That
is how I got 6-1 down because she wouldn't make the mistake on
the easy shots, so knew I had to do a little bit more.  So I took
a lot of risk.  At that 6-1 I hit my backhands, I just hit my
forehands, I really went for it.  And it went in.  You know, I
think that is my game, but sometimes it doesn't go in.

 Q.  You said that you guys are pretty good friends, how long
have you known each other on the tour, and do you do things outside
together, eat dinner together?

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  We were been friends for a while.  Like when
I was 14, so like ten years I would say, and we haven't -- we
had a year that we did a lot of  -- we went dinner together after
she won Paris. We were pretty close.  And it was awhile because
she is a lot with her mom and her mom doesn't speak English, so
sometimes I have the feeling I wanted to learn Spanish for a while,
but I am sitting there and all the friends from Arantxa are Spanish,
so it was kind of hard for me to understand the conversation.
 So -- but we played Hamburg Cup together, we went out together.
 She is very nice.  If you are top 10 or if you are No. 2 in the
world, you don't have much privacy.  You don't have much time
to have a boyfriend or whatever, so, you know, it is hard for
her.  It is a lot of sacrifice.  It is tough.

 Q.  You sound like you kind of hold her in esteem as someone
you want to play like, you were talking about how she held her
finger up after every match.  Have you sort of modeled yourself
mentally after her trying to be --

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  I have a hard time doing such things. Because
I am kind of keeping a low profile, you know, I am kind of easygoing,
and when people say you are good, or whatever, I am always like,
I am all right, I am doing my best that is all I can.  I kind
of admire Arantxa how she is so confident from herself.  She is
always, I am the best, I am good, and, you know, nobody is going
to beat me.  That is why nobody is beating her, but I admire that
from her.  I am totally a different person.  I admire that she
can really say that and she does it.  She is just the biggest
fighter.  I really -- I definitely want to be the same fighter
that she is.  That I have it in me, but sometimes it is tough
to come out every time like Steffi, every time beating everybody
and just everyday, you know, it is very tough.  I think I would
-- I really admire those two players a lot.

 Q.  Do you think for a long time your reputation -- for a
long time your reputation on the tour was tall, great serve, but
if you can just get it back, no problem you can beat her?

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  Yeah, my reputation were a lot of things.  My
reputation.

 Q.  Maybe not so hardworking?

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  No, that was never the case.  I was working
my -- I was working actually especially the three years, I was
running, practicing six hours a day, I mean a lot I was always
too nice. Everybody was like, Brenda, she is too nice for this
tour.  Seems like she doesn't want to and I have been trying to
change that because I am a nice person, but I think you can be
nice off the court and on the court.  You just come in.  It is
business.  It is not like, I mean, people don't want to see a
nice person on the court.  They want to be seeing good tennis
and I think I finally start realizing that I have to just focus
and do my thing on the court.  And off the court I can be nice
and be myself.  On the court it is just, it is just work.

 Q.  Do you feel nice on the court, or when you go out there
do you feel a little bit mean?

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  Against Arantxa I was like, maybe, sorry, or
even today, sometimes I was laughing.  I shouldn't.  I like to
-- I like to be spontaneous.  Sometimes I like to kind of joke
around and this game is being so mentally tough and you have to
concentrate so much, that is why a lot of people like Jim Loehr
in the business says, look at your strings and focus and do all
these things.  I am kind of like I, want to joke around and have
fun with the public.  You can't, it is too hard.

 Q.  What would you rather do, would you rather go out there
and have fun to relieve pressure off yourself, or do you want
to go out there and say fight, fight, fight?

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  I got to the point now that I want to fight,
fight, fight, and maybe at some points like, you know, when she
kissed the net or whatever, I knew she was going to do that because
I have played her so many times, she always does it.  I said,
no, don't kiss the net.  Do it. She did it.  It releases some
pressure probably, but I just -- I think sometimes for tennis
the crowd, I mean it is nice to watch tennis, but when I was young,
I always loved to watch Ilie Nastase or Connors, they really made
it a show on the court.  I think right now that is kind of missing.
 I want to change that, but it is going to be very hard.  At first
I have to win to people are going to say, yeah, there is a different
way to approach the situation, but when you lose, they are going
to say, no, you have to concentrate. That is the only way.  So
I really miss those persons.  I mean, I had so much fun in Paris
just watching them, Ilie, that is, that is play Tom Okker and
they were just having a blast out there.  And when I was watching
yesterday, I was watching Becker against Agassi, and Becker gave
the racket to the ballgirl.  He was just like having a blast.
 I was like, wow, this is how it should, be and the whole crowd
was enjoying it. And I know Agassi missed like two serves, he
was totally out of it, but I was like, yeah, this is how -- this
is tennis.

 Q.  Do you think the women's tour needs that?

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  Definitely.  They need somebody like that. 
And I don't want to be -- it is like, me, I just, you know, it
is the men's tour also losing it a little bit.  Because the simple
reason to play your best you have to focus, you have to concentrate,
and like a person like Chang or a person like Sampras, they are
so focused and so mentally tough, that they don't have time to
joke around, or it is just the game has become too good to lose
one point it can -- the match can be hanging off one point, and
that is why everybody is so focused, and it is going to be tough.
 You are going to see a lot of good matches, good tennis matches.
 I don't know if it is going to be that much fun as it was in
the earlier years.

 Q.  Have you ever done anything outrageous on the court or
even kissing the net or anything similar to that?

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  Kissing the net?  No, I didn't.  No, I have
been --

 Q.  Not yet.

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  I have done a lot of crazy things, that is for
sure.  But I have never kissed the net yet.  But I really -- I
think Arantxa is one of the most fun necessary players to watch
and you know, she really -- when I watch somebody play and I like
to have excitement, I love to watch Becker, Connors, Agassi, I
mean, they are really keeping the game going and in the women's
tennis probably Sabatini and Arantxa I really enjoy watching.
 It is because they just fight and they make it fun sometimes.


 Q.  This has been a big week for Dutch, players like Siemerink.
 Are the women and men from Holland, are they close on the tour?

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  Yeah, very close.  We always watch each other's
matches.  You know, it is-- I think Krajicek helped it a lot,
Richard.  Richard really, I mean, I remember when I was the first
player, kind of came up and I was like ranked 30 and there was--
after me the next player was like ranked 90, the men, they were
all out of the top 11, maybe Koevermans and Haarhuis who sometimes
did something special but not really and suddenly, Haarhuis beat
McEnroe in the U.S. Open and there were some other girls who beat
me sometimes and they really thought, hey, it is possible; there
is some-- it is really possible to do well on the tour.  Now we
have so many Dutch players, it is so much fun.  At this tournament
I think there are like 15 Dutch players, and Haarhuis, Siemerink,
all got to the quarters.  Siemerink is playing, but I know Haarhuis
just lost, but it is too bad that Richard Krajicek is injured
with his knee right now, and I hope he comes back quick because
it was our dream to win Wimbledon together.  We were like-- we
both have the fastest serve on the tour; he in the men's and I
on the women's.  He was like, you know, we are going to win a
Grand Slam together like Steffi and Boris did and you know, it
is far away, but if you keep working hard, I think it is possible.


 Q.  Do you think your game is at the point right now where
you can go to Wimbledon in three or four months and make a serious
run at the title?

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  Yeah, I really have to keep working on my serve
and volley because I still stay a lot on the baseline and the
way I played today, I wouldn't -- it will be tough for me on grass
to play that way because my grip and my forehand is very western
and maybe I even have a better chance in the French than in Wimbledon
the way I played today because I was very steady and I was very
patient.  But Wimbledon you know, it is my -- yeah it is a good
tournament for me.  I really like to do well.  Last year, I did
well and I lost to Capriati.  It was a very tough match, but I
don't think I was really ready yet with my game and this year
I am getting closer because I am just working on my serve and
volley game a lot and that is going to be the case in Wimbledon.


 Q.  Brenda, how tall are your mother and father and do they
have careers?

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  Yeah, my dad is-- my dad loved soccer. He was
soccer teacher when he was younger and he is in weather forecasting.
 Actually he is retired right now.  Okay.  They are a little bit
older than all of you.

 Q.  How tall is he?

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  My dad is my height.  Same height.

 Q.  Your mother?

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  My mom is like 5, 10.

 Q.  Does she have a career?

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  She is 71 right now, so she is retired, but
she had a good career.  She was a nurse and they were not very
into tennis at all and it makes it kind of fun, when I call them,
they are like, oh, you know, another round and it is tough.

 Q.  Your mother is 71 you say?

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  Yes.

 Q.  You are what, 25?

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  She is going to kill me if I tell you that.
 Never tell my age, okay, how many people are in here?

 Q.  You are what, 25 or 26?

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  I am 23.

 Q.  You were born when your mother was 48 years old.

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  Yeah.  It's a miracle I am here.

 Q.  Are you going to be calling them tonight?

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  I am going to be calling them in ten minutes
as soon as this is over.

 Q.  What do you think they are going to say?  What are you
going to tell them?

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  They are going to be very happy.  I called them
last night.  They said wow, we never heard you be that confident
before.  They are like if there is a time, it is going to be right
now. And I told my dad like two weeks ago I was like I am not
sure if I am going to play the Lipton; it is always windy and
my serve is kind of you know, everything eagles out in the wind
and I can't serve it that fast.  He is like, who knows, you can
play in the wind and you kind of gain some confidence with it.
 I said, okay, I am going to go for it.  It is so weird how things
go.  This week has been terrific for me because it is almost no
wind and the weather has been great. Facilities been really nice.
 So it is a great to be here and they are going to be very happy
for me.

 Q.  What is your dad's first name; can you spell it?

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  JAN.  Very simple.

 Q.  You are going to watch the match between Novotna and Zvereva?

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  Yeah, I am looking at the score.  It is 5-All
and Natasha is 5-3 up, so -- I don't know who I rather play, I
don't know.  It is very hard.

 Q.  You have played both of them?

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  I have played Novotna before and I beat her
before and I think she is very-- she is beatable and Natasha,
kind of like Arantxa, we played each other quite a lot and she
always comes out with the good shots at the right time and she
also has that fighting spirit and you know, I mean we also are
pretty good friends.  I think Arantxa and Natasha are my best
friends on the whole tour.  So I don't know, I hope Natasha wins.
 It would be great to play each other in the semis.

 Q.  You rather play a friend instead?

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  I hope she wins.  It is my friend, so I hope
she wins and it is going to be tough to play against each other,
but I definitely hope she wins because she is also a great player
out there and you know, she is just very talented and very fun
to watch too.

 Q.  Just to clarify the coaching, you are still going to want
Nunez for technical things, but you are working with mostly with
Benvin?

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  Yeah.  Rich Benvin he is best guy, very relaxed
and everything.  He does a lot of things with me.  He works physical.
 He works me mentally.  Just doing a lot of things and Nunez is
just helping me out technically because I think he is the best
coach walking around with technical things.  But I just don't
need it really on the tour.

 Q.  When was the last time you felt this truly good about
yourself?

 BRENDA SCHULTZ:  I guess when I beat Capriati in Berlin.  That
was one of the highlights.  Then after I-- in Paris I beat Manuela
Maleeva 6-4 in the third, I played a good match; kind of broke
my heart that I lost to Mary Joe.  That could have been a breakthrough
and it just didn't, but I definitely had an opportunity there.


 Q.  Thank you.


  End of FastScripts....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT