KB FED CUP, FINAL ROUND
October 4, 1997
Brenda Schultz-McCarthy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  So what is your opinion about the match, Brenda, the way you played and the way Sandrine played?

BRENDA SCHULTZ-McCARTHY:  Well, I think in the first set it was kind of hard.  I had to get used to, I think, a lot of things.  It is always hard.  I have never been the best player in my own country.  But, you know, I think after -- I felt comfortable, I think, after I broke her in the second set.  And, even I saw she also had some problems with nerves and stuff because the first set was 5-3 and then we had a couple of rallies and she wasn't hitting her forehand like the best that she can, I think.  And, I broke back 5-4 and she actually played a very good return game.  It was too bad for me because I finally got into the match.  And, then I think I played a very good game from pretty much the whole second set; though I -- still I got the chance to -- at 30-Love in the third set I had a game at 1-All and 30-Love and I played a very good approach at 30-Love too.  And, she came up with some good passing  shots.  And that was tough for me and then I think I was thinking a little bit too long about that game; that I should have won that game, I thought.  And, I lost my own service game.  And those things are just very important in matches because it is such a fast court that, you know, every chance you have, you have to get.  It is kind of like grass, when you get a little break chance, you have got to take it.  And, I think in the second set she had some chances by me to break my serve and she didn't.  I got one chance and I broke, I think, in the third set it was the other way around - had some chances on her serve.  She got one chance and she broke me and that was tough.  It was tough to fight from behind then.


Q.  Were you surprised to see her being so aggressive at 2-1 in the third set when she won that 2-Love game?

BRENDA SCHULTZ-McCARTHY:  No, I would have been the same.  I mean, she knows that one break can be a problem on this court.  I mean, I had one break in the second.  She had one in the third and "Gone" is the match.  So, yeah, you are fired up when you break, so I was not surprised by her attitude.


Q.  I mean, she was very aggressive to break you and then on her serve and she won 11 points in a row.

BRENDA SCHULTZ-McCARTHY:  Yeah, she played solid  tennis after that.  It is always hard when somebody breaks you.  You are a little frustrated because you know that you had a chance the game before that.  And, then, you know, she breaks you and then suddenly you got to focus again that you got -- you got to take every chance you get.  And, normally, I break once in a set; then I just hold my own serve.  But, I am not the type of person that breaks a lot.  So, I normally hold serve and the chance I get, I break her.  And, I mean, she plays very well because I played her last time in Hannover.  That was in March.  I lost 6-3, 6-3 and -- 6-4, 6-3 -- I don't really remember.  But, I remember that it was the same type of game like she put a lot of first serves in and it is hard for me to attack on her first serve.  And, then the times that I hit good approaches, she hit very good passing shots, every time she needed, actually, she came up with some good ones, so it was hard.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT