U.S. OPEN
August 26, 1996
Brenda Schultz-McCarthy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Seems you're the tournament's first winner, the first contestant to finish a match.
 
 BRENDA SCHULTZ-McCARTHY: Thank you. 
 
Q. Wouldn't you much rather be the tournament's last winner?
 
 BRENDA SCHULTZ-McCARTHY: Both. First is important and last is important. You know, of
course it's nice to be first out there. Everybody's a little nervous. It's nice to get it
over with and not have to wait the whole day. To be the last winner, I think I would like
that, too, a lot. 
 
Q. What do you think your chances are to achieve that?
 
 BRENDA SCHULTZ-McCARTHY: I have to play very well, like everybody else. You know, right
now there's a couple of -- there's not just two or three good girls. I mean, it's very --
there's like 10 or 20 very good girls who have a chance to do well in this tournament. My
first goal is to at least get to the Round of 16, then from there I will see what's going
to happen. It's very important to get through the first rounds, and then from there on
it's going to be very tough. 
 
Q. Have you ever played Hingis? 
 
 BRENDA SCHULTZ-McCARTHY: Yes. 
 
Q. Do you think it takes an unusual person to endure on the Tour at her age, turning
pro at the age of 14? You're one of the more senior women on the Tour.
 
 BRENDA SCHULTZ-McCARTHY: I was once young like that (laughter). There was a time I was
16 on the Tour. You know, I think it needs special parents, most of all. You know, those
are the people who get you there. As long as you have the right guidance, that's probably
the most important thing, you'll get there. I think Martina Hingis' mom does a great job
of showing her the city, showing her around, not only showing her the tennis courts. She
goes to theater, she goes everywhere, what's to see in the cities. She goes horseback
riding, what the girl loves to do most. Coaches would say, "No, only tennis."
Her mom lets her do whatever she wants. I think that will keep her up there. That's very
important. I think most parents, they screw it up. They get them there and then screw it
up in the end. I think that's the most important job, for the parent to keep them in line. 
 
Q. If you had a daughter, would you permit her to go on the women's Tour at the age of
14?
 
 BRENDA SCHULTZ-McCARTHY: If they would be good enough, yeah, but I would go with them.
I would be there all the time.  
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT