STANFORD UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 28, 2015
Blake Martinez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Stanford - 38, Notre Dame - 36   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
BLAKE MARTINEZ: That thing we did where Conrad has to kick a field goal before our conditioning.  And if we miss, we have to do extra conditioning.  He never missed all summer.  So we would always be like right in his face, yelling like random things, the worst things you could possibly say to someone and he still made every single one.  And tonight it was amazing when he made that.   
 Q.  So what kind of the mood on the sideline, like are you guys talking, are you kind of quiet?  What happens?  
BLAKE MARTINEZ: I think that we had a lot of confidence in Conrad.  Coach Bloom, one story for me, was Coach Bloom came up to me and was like, oh, Blake, do you think he's going to make this and I'm like, oh, easy, easy money.  Just from summer, he hasn't missed one ever.  And we're going to get this, don't worry about it.   
 Q.  So what's that moment like when he makes the kick and people are screaming, "legend, legend, Legend Trophy" and things like that.  What's that like watching the crowd power down from the sideline?  
BLAKE MARTINEZ: Unreal.  Just the emotions that are flowing through are just amazing.  And kind of, at first, everyone was telling to us stay back because there was still enough time for us to like have to kick off.  But for some reason they let the clock run out still.  So I was like, all right -- first, I was like kind of back and they're like, you're good to go, and I went running down.   
And then kind of said, like, good job to the other players, but after that it was amazing.  My parents ran on.  I was taking pictures with them and all the fans.  It was just a great moment to have for your last time on the field.   
 Q.  As a player, what is it like when the fans storm the field?  Like how do you -- Do you like that?  
BLAKE MARTINEZ: Yeah, yes.  Obviously, for the winning aspect.  Not from the aspect -- but, yes, definitely when they run on the field, just to see those guys that have been cheering you on all year.  It was just a great moment to kind of see them face-to-face and be able to take pictures.  I took a bunch of pictures with little kids.  They were saying, hey, good job, I was watching you all season.  And it was a great moment to kind of cherish that and give back to them for all they have done for us.   
 Q.  Is this the best offensive line you played all year?  
BLAKE MARTINEZ: Oh yeah, definitely.  I compare them exactly like I said in another interview, that they're exactly like our offensive line.  They're a physical group, and you have to be able to play perfectly on every single play or they're going to kind of offensively outmaneuver you.   
 Q.  Is it size or technique or scheme or what is it?  
BLAKE MARTINEZ: I think it's everything.  They have a great coaching staff, they have great recruiting, and they got the guys.  They're all 6'7", I stand next to them like, all right, cool, I got to go around this guy on this play, so.   
 Q.  So in the fourth quarter, when you start making those stops, what was changing for you guys?  
BLAKE MARTINEZ: So, right before the fourth quarter happened, I brought the team together, our defense together, and I told them, hey, this is our time, this is where we need to kind of just nut up, basically, and say, we're not going to let anything get past us.  We're going to make those stops for our offense.  They have been doing it for us the whole game and it's time for to us make that stop and contribute in this game, so we did.   
 Q.  In that last minute or so, with your backs on the wall, like, was there ever a moment where, like, we should just let them score and let our offense have time to run plays?  
BLAKE MARTINEZ: No. Every single play we were going for a stop.  That third down stop, going into fourth down, the fourth down was kind of sucky at that point, because we felt, we felt so confident we were going to be able to stop that play, but they got outside of us and kind of made that.  But, yeah, we were going for a stop the whole entire time.  And once they scored we were like, all right, offense, there's enough time to go down and kick a field goal.  Which happened.   
 Q.  Has it hit you yet that you played your last game in this stadium?  
BLAKE MARTINEZ: Not yet.  I feel -- it feels like it's soon going to hit.  Probably tomorrow I'll be like, wow, that's going to be the last time I run out of that tunnel.  Next time I'll be, maybe, walking out of the tunnel, watching the Stanford game, being the alumni right on the sideline and cheering on those guys.  And it was a fun moment and definitely, definitely remember it forever.   
 Q.  What was it like walking off that field?  What was it, like, when did you kind of distance yourself from the scrum afterwards and just walk off?  
BLAKE MARTINEZ: Oh, yeah, it was kind of took awhile, because I was like walking off and like seeing all these fans that want to take pictures.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT