STANFORD UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 24, 2015
Blake Martinez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Washington - 14  Stanford - 31
   
 Q.  Talk about the tailback first of all (No microphone). 
BLAKE MARTINEZ: Yeah, he's a great running back.  He made those moves to kind of get open once again, because we think we had him bottled up in the backfield, and all of a sudden, shift deep, boom, he bounces out and makes a touchdown on one of those plays.  Kind of gained those extra yards that we didn't want them to kind of get.
Q. Watching another 300-yard offensive performance by Christian McCaffrey; is this business as usual?
BLAKE MARTINEZ: Yeah, we're kind of expecting it from him now, and we kind of mess with him throughout each day at practice.  Kind of those little plays where thought he had a touchdown but didn't, and we're like, dude, come on, what are you doing?  You're supposed to score every time.  And he kind of obviously him being a competitor gets mad because he wanted to score on those plays, obviously.  It's just fun to go back and forth.  He's a special guy like everyone's been saying, and he has a bright future.
Q. You have played in every game except one where you've faced a quarterback who hasn't had a lot of experience.  Does that detract from your defensive performance do you think, or is that just football?
BLAKE MARTINEZ: No, that's just football.  We go out there and kind of have a game plan for whoever he's going to be out for that quarterback spot.  Kind of just have a thing where if everyone does their job, we'll make the plays that need to be made.
Q. Were you guys -- was pressuring more a part of this week's game play?
BLAKE MARTINEZ: I feel we had kind of the same game plan we had the past couple weeks where first and second down we had to make sure we knew what was going to come from certain formations, because we had key tendencies whenever they came out with certain stuff.  If we could stop them on first and second, our coach is going to let us loose on third down and make the plays that we needed to make.
Q. So you guys had three deflected passes from your front seven.  Was that an emphasis this week?  What would you attribute that to?
BLAKE MARTINEZ: I think that was just them understanding when they can basically go after the quarterback or at a certain point know when they need to put their hands up.  They work a drill each week to work on that.  It kind of showed this week how important the drill was.
Q. When you saw Washington's defense out on the field, people were saying that would be the strongest defense you guys would face.  Did you think that was true?  Did you think they were the toughest defense you guys had seen?
BLAKE MARTINEZ: Yeah, definitely from statistics and everything that we've seen throughout the whole Pac-12 there, definitely a strong defense, holding a lot of great teams.  Lowest scoring, and we kind of went out there and knew that we wanted to be the best defense.
Everyone was talking about them all week, all right, Pac-12 offense get against best Pac-12 defense.  And we're like hey, what about us?  So we went out there with chip on our shoulders and I think we proved a big thing today.
Q. How do you feel about heading up to Coleman with a team that has such a strong air raid offense?  Are you going to adjust to that?
BLAKE MARTINEZ: Yeah, I think we'll have certain packages that we'll have for them and stuff where we have more, I guess, DBs and safeties out there to kind of deal with all the passing that they do.  I think I saw one game they had 70 pass attempts, which is insane.  We just had to be ready for that and know our job like every single week and make the plays.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT