MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY DANA
August 7, 2020
Louise Ridderstrom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Q. Let's walk through this hole-in-one here.  What were you talking about with your caddie this week and what went into that marvelous ace?
 LOUISE RIDDERSTROM:   Well, you know what?  My ball striking hasn't been on pointe this week.  However, on hole No. 8 we had a pretty good number in 138.  That's a pretty nice normal stock 8-iron for me.  Basically I just asked him, Where we trying to end up here?  And he said, Just go straight at it.  That's what I did.  (Laughter.)
 Yeah, hit it really solid and I think it just rolled in.
 Q. Would consider yourself someone who usually goes for the pins?
 LOUISE RIDDERSTROM:   You know what?  It depends week after week how I feel.  Sometimes you stand over a shot and you just have that feeling that I can do this, and other times you feel a little bit more conservative and you are not firing at as many pins.
 So I would say that's from day to day, week to week.
 Q. Your 1st hole-in-one on the LPGA Tour.  Was it a little different without being able to celebrate with the people around you in your group?
 LOUISE RIDDERSTROM:   That was a little different for sure.  Well, all my other hole in ones that I have done, which is -- this was my fifth one, so it's not like anything crazy -- there were no crowds there either really.
 So it would've been a nice experience to see what it would've been like with crowds, but still felt pretty awesome.
 Q. With that, every hole-in-one this year is obviously $20,000 to St. Jude because of the CME Group Cares Challenge.  What does that mean to you to know that all you have to do is make an ace, and a donation like this goes to something like St. Jude?
 LOUISE RIDDERSTROM:   I think that's awesome.  I'm very happy that we have something like that.  Knowing that I actually did something that can help people today, that feels amazing.  I feel even better about it.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT