NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 25, 2016
Cody Gribble
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Thoughts on the day overall.  Started out slow, but were able to turn in quite the round there.
CODY GRIBBLE: It was good.  It was good.  I really had it going.  I really, really had it going.  After 12.  And I wish that we could have kind of I could have kept it going, we got put on the clock on 14, but yeah, it is what it is.  The officials had to do their job and it kind of took me out of the rhythm, I 3-putted 14 and then just hit a bad shot out of the fairway bunker on 15.  But I was able to get another birdie on 16 and had some really good looks on 17 and 18.  So, I can't be disappointed in how I did.  I think I need to learn a little better how to play when I'm getting put on the clock, because I think I want to hurry up and I want to rush and I want to make the officials happy keeping up and playing fast.  I just got to learn from that.  I think that's the biggest disappointment I had in the day because I think if we don't get put on the clock, if we're on time, I think that I could turn my 5-under into a 7-under, instead of a 4.  And that's my TOUR card.  So, it is what it is, I'm happy, I had a great week, it's been awhile since I had a good round like this, so nothing but confidence, positive vibes going into the final week.
Q. What was that 7-under stretch in seven holes like?  Five birdies in a row, a par then an eagle.
CODY GRIBBLE: It's good, it was just playing smart.  Hitting fairways, I hit some really great drives today.  I hit some really good approach shots.  My wedges were pretty solid.  But really and truly just making putts.  Good reads.  Mark and I, I think, did a really good job this week with some of the really tricky putts around the greens where they put the holes.  I think there's some subtle breaks there.  But it was pretty solid.  I'm happy.  I'm happy.  I'm ready to have a beer.
Q. Great week at Victoria National, great week here, had a good finish at the U.S. Open before, what is it about tough golf courses you like so much?
CODY GRIBBLE: You know, it just puts me in a better mindset.  Honestly, I think I need to be in that mindset more often.  It's been a really weird year this year.  I've had a lot of missed cuts and when I made cuts I've seemed to capitalize on most of them, I would say.  So, I still say it was more of a disappointing year, but I'm happy where I am right now.  Still making it to the finals and having full status again for next year.  So I got a job, so I got some security.  But I would like that TOUR card.  I would like that little piece of plastic in a couple weeks.
Q. You're T-5 right now, there's a couple guys around you that could go up or down and totally shift it.
CODY GRIBBLE: I know, I think I needed another birdie to make sure I actually secured the card, but I still got another week.  I'm not really expecting to get my card this week.
Q. You have been on the bubble before.  What's that experience like?
CODY GRIBBLE: Don't get your hopes up.
(Laughter.)  Don't get your hopes up.
Q. Were there any similar vibes from that back nine in Portland last year that you kind of felt?
CODY GRIBBLE: Yeah, for sure.  Just like anything, when you're playing well, you get in a good rhythm and you start getting some confidence going, you get that adrenaline rush and that's the best feeling.  If you don't like it, then you're in the wrong sport, so -- or even wrong job.  So, it's a blast being in that situation and I haven't felt it in so long.  So, it's, it was a very, very comfortable feeling getting back in that situation.  I wish we didn't get put on the clock, to be honest, I think it would have gone somewhat differently, but I have no one -- I'm not blaming anybody but myself, so, I got to learn from that.  I got to do better next time.
Q. Would you explain, your results hadn't been there for a couple months.  How would you explain the sudden uptick?  Is there anything that clicked during the week?
CODY GRIBBLE: Yeah, I actually found a couple of small little things mainly with my putter.  I think that I could see my game actually really getting a lot better by Boise.  I would say first and foremost attitude.  I think my attitude in the playoffs have been, it's been 10 times better than what it was at the end of the season.  Lowering expectations, but I found something with the putter.  I have a little more of a forward press right now and which basically got me to slow down my stroke and when you're on fast greens, a slower stroke and good rhythm is the first thing I'm trying to look for.  So, I found that and I really -- and I still didn't make really a whole lot until today, so it took me six days to do it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT