SBS TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 5, 2017
Cody Gribble
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just get some comments on your round.  Great start to the tournament?
CODY GRIBBLE: Thank you.  I appreciate it.  It was good.  Still rusty.  I got a little lucky out there, a nice chip-in on 8, the par 3.  But hit some good shots, and definitely hit some better iron shots, wedges started to get a little better at the end.  Putting has been consistent.
Putting kind of kept me in the game today.  Hit a couple squirrely drives.  But it's not the driver; it's definitely just not playing enough.  But it felt good getting out there.  I started out shaky.  So to finish 4-under kept me in it I guess.
Q. You started at 2-over and made a nice come back.  When you're 2-over, it's the first year --
CODY GRIBBLE: Yeah, you're reeling, no doubt, 2-over after three.  I pull a wedge.  Just can't do that.  Just dumb mistakes.
And kind of kept it together.  Made a couple putts.  Hit a good shot on the first par 5 and hit a good wedge shot, good tee shot on 6, and kind of get back to even par.  A little lucky on 8 to chip-in.  A good birdie on 9.
So kind of get it started off right, and the back side actually was very consistent.  Played much better.  Hit more fairways.  Had plenty of opportunities to make birdie and really couldn't come away with it.  A little disappointed that I couldn't get to 5 or 6 (under), because that was right there to really push to 7.
But I can't be too disappointed.  2-over after three, and you know, I think I made one birdie yesterday for the Pro-Am group.  So I wasn't having a whole lot of expectations.  But it was good.  It's a good start.  Looking forward to tomorrow.
Q. What does that say about your maturity as a player, to be patient and come through?
CODY GRIBBLE: It's getting there.  It's getting there.  I still think that I've got some immaturities, but I'm learning and I'm learning fast.  Just trying to keep up.
Q. How big a deal is it for you to be here in this field this week?
CODY GRIBBLE: Awesome.  Awesome.  It's a dream come true to be here in Maui and playing in the SBS Tournament of Champions and playing with the best in the world.  It felt good to kind of get off to a good start and got some things to work on for tomorrow and the following day, and you know, going to honest know will you will you next week.  It was a great start to the year.  Just got to keep going.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT