SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
November 2, 2016
Cody Gribble
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What have the last few days been like for you?
CODY GRIBBLE: Pretty hectic.  Pretty hectic.  But good problems to have.  It's been fun.  Coming in, I got in Sunday night from Jackson, and it was a little rough during my flight Monday morning, but trying to get prep in, trying to get ready for this week, but at the same time having fun.  Having fun adjusting to all of this.
Q. What have the emotions been like now that you've had a few days for it to sink in?
CODY GRIBBLE: You know, I still feel like it hadn't completely sunken in yet.  I think just trying to get on the road, trying to get adjusted to the new course.  In Vegas we're staying downtown.  Just getting ready for this week is priority one.  I think after Sea Island when I have a month and a half off, I think it'll kick in a little more.  But it's fun.  It's a pretty good feeling.
Q. Did you surprise yourself at all with how you played at safe way or did you think okay, I can compete and possibly win that quickly?
CODY GRIBBLE: You know, obviously it was in the back of my mind thinking about winning, but it was more the process.  It sounds very cliché ish, but I knew I was driving the ball well, I knew I was putting exceptionally well.  If I could just kind of keep leaning on that, I knew good things were going to come my way.  And I really had that same feeling in Evansville this year on the Webb tour, and it didn't go my way -- or back in the summer.  But it happened to go my way last week.
Q. Jordan or any of your UT buddies give you a text or call?
CODY GRIBBLE: Jordan texted me and it was nice of him to send a tweet out on my behalf.  But it was good.  It was very supportive, but I've had a bunch of texts from a bunch of family and friends and it's been a crazy week.
Q. Most surprising text or call you got.
CODY GRIBBLE: I got a text from Peyton Manning on Monday morning.  It was an honor to get a text from him.  He's one of my heroes, so it was pretty cool seeing that, and having his support was great.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT