MLB ALL-STAR GAME
July 6, 1998
Cal Ripken, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Spent half your season in Camden Yards. How does Coors Field field?

CAL RIPKEN: Well, my initial opinion is -- my initial feeling is it's a great place.
I'd still like to reserve some judgment till you get a chance to get. To get out there,
run around the field, get to see the field from the inside out. The first thing I did when
I got here today was take a walk right down the tunnel. Was very quiet, no one out in the
ballpark yet. Walked out in my street clothes to kind of get a feel for the place.
Absolutely beautiful place.

Q. What about the notions about hitting?

CAL RIPKEN: I'm very curious about that. Light air, the ball carrying further, it looks
like big dimensions. I think we'll all look to Mark McGwire to kind of give us an idea how
good it carries.

Q. Does it cross your mind that maybe you or some of your teammates might make a
mistake or two trying to put a ball out?

CAL RIPKEN: We make a lot of mistakes on a daily basis. That could be just another one
you add to it. The tendency when you go into a place like Fenway Park, Tony Gwynn
mentioned it, the walls seem to be so short, you can reach them out and touch them.
Consequently, you change your swing, don't hit very good there. That could be a problem
here, people trying to get the ball in the area, see what happens, changing the swing a
little bit. I think the more times you play, the more you understand to keep it the same.

Q. Have you never played here, not even in the minors?

CAL RIPKEN: No, never.

Q. Exhibition games, never, in the old ballpark or anything?

CAL RIPKEN: Never.

Q. Have you heard other players talk about the altitude here being a problem of any
kind, not just for the ball carrying, but for players when you get your wind and so forth?

CAL RIPKEN: You know, I really haven't heard a whole lot. I mean, you hear a lot of it
about football, when you watch the game of football, how much different it is to come in
playing that game. I've never really made the same comparison in baseball. A couple
different games. I imagine it affects you in different ways. What are some of the things I
should look for? What are some of the symptoms I should look for (laughter)?

Q. Do you still love the game as much as when you started?

CAL RIPKEN: Yes, generally speaking, yes. It has its moments where it's a lot more fun.
There's a lot more spring in your step when you're playing on a winning team, competitive
team. When the game is simplified to the approach where you ask yourself, what can I do in
the course of this game to help us win? It's been great the last couple years. This first
half has been very frustrating. Taken some of the zest out of the game. If you look at it
in the most simplest form, I love playing baseball, I love putting this uniform on. Yeah,
it's as much fun putting the uniform on now as it was before.

Q. We've heard several players express fears that being in the home run contest hurts
their swing. The year that you won it in Toronto, was that a positive for you? Did it help
you?

CAL RIPKEN: Well, let me first start off by saying, yeah, it's probably a legitimate
fear. I had the same fear in Toronto. Coming to the game, hitting almost 350. I had never
been that high at that point in the season. I was very fearful that any change of my
approach would affect my swing. But I went into the home run hitting contest, just tried
to do the best you could. All of a sudden, yeah, it did catapult me a little bit. Gave me
a little extra boost. I think when you look at it from a marketing sense or from a fan
sense, it's such a positive thing. It creates such great attention that you want to be in
that situation. I think if you really look at it from a player's standpoint, saying,
"Yeah, it might be a little bit -- I might feel sore tomorrow, or I'm fearful that I
might mess up my swing," but it's repairable if any of those things happen. You can
look at it as a win win. It's an opportunity for you to stand out there in front of
everybody. Doesn't mean you can't hit home runs if you don't hit it in those ten swings in
the competition. If you do get on a roll, everyone is capable of getting on a roll, it's
such a positive thing all the way around for baseball and you individually, I wouldn't see
why people wouldn't want to do that.

Q. There's so much excitement that surrounding this All-Star Game in particular. Why do
you think baseball is so much more popular than all the other sports' All-Stars?

CAL RIPKEN: Why do you think baseball is much more popular in the All-Star Game than
other sports. I don't know if I could say that. I don't know if that's true. I think the
popularity of the baseball and the All-Star Game goes way back. This is baseball's
opportunity for an event. The nature of baseball itself is on a day-to-day basis where you
play, you play so many games that it doesn't take on the advance status, it takes on an
everyday feeling. Football, on the other hand, every Sunday I think turns out to be an
event. There's a buildup all week long, match-up that you can talk about baseball, you
don't have that opportunity. The All-Star Game, and probably the World Series, are the two
closest things to the events. I just remember having a party or a barbecue when my dad was
managing the Minor Leagues. We'd all get together and sit around the TV and watch the
All-Star Games. I think it makes you feel good, something about the middle of summer that
brings everyone together. It's the focal point. I can't really understand in-depth all the
popularity. I see some really cool things about it.

Q. The guys in this All-Star Game, if they did nothing else, how many would make the
Hall of Fame or be deserving of the Hall of Fame?

CAL RIPKEN: The caliber of talent in that room. We just had a team meeting. Sitting
around looking at the kind of talent that's assembled in that room, it's the very best.
So, I mean, when you look at it that way, the Hall of Fame represents the very best. I
think it represents the very best over a long period of time. A lot can couple to shorten
people's careers. Those guys in that room have an opportunity to put up tremendous
numbers. A lot of them, you know, no doubt would be in the Hall of Fame.

Q. Do you see your streak coming to an end any time soon?

CAL RIPKEN: Well, I mean, I try to keep it -- keep perspective, keep the most simple
approach. On the baseball player, I'm considered the everyday baseball player, third
baseman for the Orioles. On this day, it's to come out to help us win. I come to the
ballpark to a simple approach. The manager is making his lineup, thinking I can be one of
the guys that can help us win, I'll play. The streak itself can be analyzed, dissected,
opinions can be formed in all different directions. But I don't worry about all that kind
of stuff. I worry about the thing that matters most, my approach to the game, it's my job.
So, when that happens, when the streak happens, it will take care of itself. The situation
will present itself, which will make sense, and it will happen. I can't tell you how it
would happen. It's not going to go on forever.

Q. Ken Griffey this morning had trouble putting into words, his thanks to the fans for
the amount of votes he had. You got like 3.4 million, the second third baseman didn't make
a million votes. What do you say to fans like that? Does that humble you?

CAL RIPKEN: Well, in a very simple way, a lot of people liked you enough to vote for
you. The popularity goes beyond I guess someone liking you. You have to maybe stand for
something, you have to be good for a period of time. You have to do something that people
like. I think it's really -- when you get a lot of votes in the All-Star Game, it makes
you feel good that you've accomplished something, you know, in the game. Ken Griffey, Jr.,
he is the game. I mean, he's such a talented player, we all marvel his ability to go out
there and play, the things that he does. When you think about baseball, you think about
this time frame, you can't help but think about Ken Griffey. He should be very honored and
very thankful that everybody holds him in that high regard?

Q. What do you think about the young short stops and being called the guy that set the
standard?

CAL RIPKEN: It's a very high compliment that they say I set the standard. I was one of
the guys that maybe opened up an opportunity for a bigger shortstop. There were guys
before me that opened up the opportunity for me. Robin Yount and Alan Trammell, some of
the offense that they were able to put up on the board, opened up the possibility for
someone to consider a shortstop that could hit and also could field his position. When I
came along, physically size became an issue. I was able to figure out how to play and play
pretty well. A new group of guys coming in, you can't say enough good things about those
guys. They are the example of what a two-way player is all about. Their skills offensively
are at the top of their game. Their skills defensively are at the top. We can sit back and
watch them for many, many years. It's a great bunch of guys.

Q. Where does consecutive All-Star starts rank in your list of accomplishments?

CAL RIPKEN: I've had a very fulfilling career. I feel very fortunate in a lot of ways.
To have the opportunity to come to so many All-Star Games is one of those great
experiences, just goes along with everything else. The All-Star Game is different. I've
always enjoyed the experience of being able to talk to other players, share stories, be in
the same clubhouse, celebrate baseball in the way that baseball celebrates, be a part of
the celebration every summer. So I'm thankful for it. It's always an honor to be here, no
matter how many times you come. It's always an honor to be here at the All-Star Game.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT