MLB ALL-STAR GAME
July 10, 2001
Cal Ripken, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  You got a standing ovation, you step in the box and the first pitch, you hit a home run.  What emotions could you have possibly been feeling? 

CAL RIPKEN, JR.:   Well, still had a shot of adrenaline or a long case of the goose bumps, I'm not sure what yet, but coming to the plate, I was excited.  I was a little worried with the shadows and I was in the cage trying to swing really hard, trying to get ready and I went up there and said, "God, it's hard to see.  Let me just keep things short and put the ball in play."    The ovation, people standing up, and I came out and tried to acknowledge them very quickly because I didn't want the game to kind of be delayed for that.  I got back in and just saw the first pitch, swung at it, put a nice swing on it.  I swung and made good contact and the ball went out of the ballpark and I felt like I was flying around the bases.  It was a shot of adrenaline, and then the curtain call after that; it was just a continuation of those goose bumps.  I still have them right now thinking about it. 

Q.  How surprised were you when Alex Rodriguez asked to you switch positions the first inning? 

CAL RIPKEN, JR.:   I must have been the only one on the whole planet that didn't know.  I came out there and I thought about it  -- this isn't the time or the place to go back to short, I haven't played it in so many years.  He said, "No, everybody is expecting you to do it, so go on over there."    I said, okay, and at first I was secretly wishing that Roger would strike out the three guys and then not to have to have a play and then I started thinking, "Yeah, I'd like to have a play, like to see what it feels like again."  And after the second out, I really wanted a third one.  But it was a good feeling.  It was a different look.  It was one that I saw for the majority of my career.  It was fun to go back there and get that look. 

Q.  This whole few days has been a real celebration of the game, a celebration of your career and Tony's career.  How meaningful is that, knowing that it is your last one?

CAL RIPKEN, JR.:   It's been a whirlwind, and it's been a great atmosphere, a great environment for the celebration of baseball.  I always thought that the All-Star Game was a special time to celebrate baseball.  It really meant something special to our family to sit around and watch the game on TV, and to be a part of this all these years has been really special.  This one, I think I came in with my eyes open a little wider, looking to take full advantage of everything that's special about the All-Star Game.  It's tiring and it's been demanding a little bit, but it's been a great one.  And to have things go great in the game, to hit a home run, it's been special.  It's a great feeling.


End of FastScripts .

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT