NL DIVISION SERIES: CARDINALS VS BRAVES
October 4, 2019
Brian Snitker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions for Brian Snitker.
Q. How does Martin's absence affect the bullpen? Will Fried take on greater role? And how do you envision Julio being used?
BRIAN SNITKER: It's going to affect the bullpen. That's a huge hit right there. Probably Max is going to need to maybe fill that role and pitch some of those high-leverage innings late in the game.
We know he can do it. And he's got stuff to do it and all that. That's probably going to elevate him to those roles now.
Q. Will that take him out of Game 4?
BRIAN SNITKER: Not necessarily, we'll just to wait and see how we get there. Today, I think, will determine a lot of that, but I don't know that we feel like it's necessarily completely eliminated him from that.
Q. How do you see Julio fitting in in the big picture?
BRIAN SNITKER: He's going to be in the bullpen right now. He could possibly be a Game 4 starter. Just like I say, he may have to fill a mid-game-type area where, because we know he could cover two or three innings. He's going to be available down there. And just depends on the flow of the game.
Q. Was Julio here yesterday or did he go to North Point?
BRIAN SNITKER: He was in Atlanta. He was ready to go to Florida.
Q. How did he react a couple days ago when you told him he wasn't going to --
BRIAN SNITKER: He wasn't happy. I didn't expect him to be. I wasn't happy. Like I said before, that was one of the toughest things I've probably ever been through. But he handled it like a pro -- very maturely.
And he asked -- you know what, he asked all the right questions, I thought. He had us explaining how we came to that. He was very mature and professional about it.
Q. You said last night that you hadn't had a chance to talk to Acuña. Have you had a chance today?
BRIAN SNITKER: Yeah, I have.
Q. What did you say?
BRIAN SNITKER: It was a good conversation. It's not the first time, obviously. And my gist of it, I think, to him without expanding on anything, is I'm not going to give up on this kid. I mean, I'm going to go to the end of the earth trying to help this guy. And understand the responsibilities of where we're all at. It was a good conversation.
Q. To follow up on that, we don't know if it's something in the translation when we're asking questions, but he kept saying that his intent is to hustle and give full effort on it all the time. Did you get a good understanding in his explanation of what happened on that seventh inning fly ball?
BRIAN SNITKER: Yeah, like I say, it's the same thing, the same conversation I've had with him before. I think the two things that you can control in this game is your effort and hustle, how you play the game like that. Those are controllable parts of this game.
There's a lot that aren't. There's a lot in this game that you can't control. You can control that.
Q. When he hit the home run in the ninth inning and looked at it for a while and did his usual trot, were you displeased with that coming off what had just happened two innings before?
BRIAN SNITKER: A little bit, yeah. Yeah, that bothered me a little bit, too.
Q. Does it bother you that, here's such a talented player, and once again he had a terrific night, and we end up spending so much time talking about it because he does these things that could be avoided so easily?
BRIAN SNITKER: That's the thing. I mean, it's a shame that myself, his teammates have to address this. We shouldn't be talking about this. It was a great comeback. He had a great evening. We should be talking about that, not addressing this issue.
Q. Were you pleased to see how Freddie and some of the other guys did their job as leaders and expressed what they did last night about it?
BRIAN SNITKER: Yeah, I think they're speaking how they feel. And they're about winning the game; they're expressing their feelings.
Q. On a personal level, as you say, you have taken up for him a lot in the past. And I remember your reaction after he got hit on the first pitch of the game last year, you were almost in tears. Do you feel personally let down when you see something like that in a game like that from him?
BRIAN SNITKER: I don't know that I feel that. I mean, I'm disappointed more than personally let down, I think.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT