NL DIVISION SERIES: BRAVES VS DODGERS
October 7, 2018
Brian Snitker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just go over the way Newcomb got through the season.  I know he had a lot of high points.  He had some low points, and he pitched very well against the Dodgers.  What was your overall impression of how he handled everything?
BRIAN SNITKER: Well, I was very impressed, because this is his first full year, from start to finish.  He had a rough go in September.  It's a long season mentally for these guys the first year, especially with the expectation and where we were and the fact that we were trying to chase a division.  He's pitched very well against the Dodgers, really impressed the other day in the relief stint.  And he had a good last start in the regular season, and so we kind of decided to go with him tonight.
Q. Last month or two the Dodgers have used almost entirely different lineups versus right-handed, left-handed starters.  How much of an advantage do they get out of that?  How difficult is it to game-plan against?
BRIAN SNITKER: Well, it just goes to the depth of their team when you can do that.  I mean, they have five guys on their bench that could be everyday players for a lot of teams.  And the fact that they can just flip a whole lineup like that is -- again, shows the depth and the quality of club that they have.
So Newcomb's been pretty good against right-handed hitters.  And so that's kind of the -- and then they've been really tough on right-handed pitchers.  So that kind of, again, led us to why we're using him.  And we knew that this is the lineup we were going to see.  I figured that, especially up 2-0, that they would get all the right-handed bench guys in the game today.
Q. How do you go about managing your bullpen knowing that there's no tomorrow unless you win today?
BRIAN SNITKER: Yep.  It's all hands on deck is what we told them.  Everybody's in the pen.  And so we'll just -- Newcomb will determine a lot of that.  Again, I told him, I don't expect you to go to the ninth inning, but I want you to just get the thing off the ground.  And we'll ride him as long as he'll let us.  And after that, everybody is available, and we'll worry about tomorrow tomorrow.
Q. Brian, what is it you think that makes Sean so difficult for the Dodgers' bats?
BRIAN SNITKER: Well, you know, I don't know.  He's got a little ride on his fastball.  He came up with a changeup this year, and that was a big pitch for him.  I thought it kept him in counts, got him back in counts.  He's got a really good breaking ball, but it doesn't have the consistency that you're looking for yet.  But if it's a night when he's on, then that's an added plus.
He's a guy that can throw his fastball and be effective with it.
Q. You mentioned that Newcomb is good against righties but let's say the third or fourth inning, and you make that switch to one of your other right-handers.  Do you go into the game talking to Touki, Max, everyone, mentally preparing them for why or when they might be needed or any and all relievers at that time?
BRIAN SNITKER: Yeah.  I mean we'll sit down and we'll talk about that, have a game plan, and then Marty can relay -- he can kind of serve to give these guys the scenarios instead of just the phone ringing and it's me.  They're going to have an idea when the phone rings who it's going to be.  And we'll sit down and talk about that before the game.
Q. I know you have some veterans on your team, but a lot of times when you lose two games like that, people will say, well, the young guys, the stage was too big.  How much of that do you think went into the first two games?
BRIAN SNITKER: I've been pretty impressed with our young guys, honestly.  Especially the young pitchers that we brought out of the bullpen the first two games all did a really good job of holding the game in check.  The offensive players, I don't think it was the big stage or anything like that.  I think it had a lot to do with the guys that they faced on the mound had a tremendous amount to do with that.
But I've been very pleased in how our young guys have handled the situations.  I thought they've all stayed in the moment and slowed the game down really well.
Q. Snit, in a game like this -- situation like this where you have to use more bullpen guys potentially or in a series like this, how important is that communication with a guy like Marty Reed and Chuck Hernandez kind of figuring out and communicating that stuff with you?
BRIAN SNITKER: It's big.  Marty does a really good -- like I say, we get together as a staff and talk about certain scenarios and situations, and then he can kind of get guys moving as the game plays.  Like I say, Newcomb will determine when that time is.  If he goes out there and he gets on a roll, shoot, we'll let him run with it.
But if not, then if situations get dicey, then Marty will give those guys a heads up of what we talked about and where they fit in the equation.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT