NL DIVISION SERIES: BRAVES VS DODGERS
October 5, 2018
Brian Snitker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Los Angeles - 3, Atlanta - 0   
 Q.  Snit, do you just look at this as a product of facing two great pitchers or --  
BRIAN SNITKER: Yeah.  I mean it's two guys that are really on.  That's for sure.  We're not swinging the bats well.  That's kind of -- we haven't been in a while.  I think three out of the last four games we've played, we haven't scored.  But he was -- I mean, I looked up at one point in time and there was 50 some strikes and teen balls.  And he broke out the curveball really, going to Nicky in the first inning.  He was just really good.  I mean, he was -- and we said last night, it's kind of -- Ryu last night kind of -- it's like we're getting ready.  You know, it was a good warmup for Kershaw, for what we're going to face.   
And thought maybe had a good plan.  Ronald came out and rifled that one in the first inning, and he was the only guy I think that got to second base after that even.  So I don't know, we just gotta go back home, regroup and win a game.   
 Q.  Brian, since Kershaw doesn't throw quite as hard as he used to, how much more difficult is it for your hitters to prepare for him knowing that and knowing that he's going to be using a lot more sliders?  
BRIAN SNITKER: Well, that's -- and they were.  We talked about that cut right, and they prepared for that, but he was just so -- I don't know, I mean, he just is attacking and moving the ball around.  And like I said, I kind of felt like later in the game he started going to his curveball a little bit, and wasn't a lot early.   
You know, it's just not one guy.  It's a complete team thing right now as far as the lack of offense.  You can't blame any one person.  I mean it's just our whole lineup is having a hard time, struggling offensively right now.   
 Q.  Manny Machado had a quiet game yesterday but when you look at his history against Anibal, did you know that that would be a difficult matchup today?  
BRIAN SNITKER: Well, I mean he's a difficult matchup for anybody.  When I look at him, it's just some of the pitches he hits and after that, I mean, he seemed pretty good in hindsight.  But like I say, he's a tough matchup for everybody.  I mean he's just an elite player.   
 Q.  Snit, Kershaw had a couple of really short innings.  Was the strategy -- obviously he gives up more hits early in counts.  Did you guys want to be aggressive coming out?  
BRIAN SNITKER: Yeah, we looked at it, and we were kind of at the guys to -- you know, he's getting ahead with the fastball and had him be on the attack for it.  We were going to let him get deep, and that was the plan is to get after him early.   
 Q.  When Sanchez got 3-0 right there to Machado, what was your thinking right there?  
BRIAN SNITKER: I just kind of thought, well, he's not going to pitch to him.  I have the option of walking him.  That's my fault right there.  But I just assumed right there -- and the pitch he hit was, I mean, most guys don't get that ball.  But I could take it out of his hands, too.   
 Q.  You said we talked about looking out for the cut right.  Are you literally talking about the way Kershaw's fastball runs in on right-handers?  
BRIAN SNITKER: Yeah, and the sliders that he's using a lot now.  And you know, we saw it.  You know, going in we thought we had a good plan against him, but I mean he just -- like I say, collectively we're not swinging the bats well, and on top of that we faced two guys that they just didn't miss.  They didn't miss.  They didn't miss locations.  They didn't make any mistakes for two games, for 18 innings.  It was two guys that were about as pinpoint as you could be.   
 Q.  Brian, just following that up, I mean, you only have so many lineup options going into the next game?  
BRIAN SNITKER: Yeah.   
 Q.  On something like this do you just come back in Game 3 and hope?  
BRIAN SNITKER: Yeah.  It's kind of -- I'll probably move some guys around.  But the same guys are going to be out there.  I mean, again, we are what we are.  And we're a pretty set lineup because we're not deep on our bench.  We haven't been all year.  So we just gotta hope that -- you know, and I don't know that moving guys around, giving them different looks in the lineup when you're swinging the bats like we are is even the answer.  But we'll try something a little different on Sunday.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT