NL DIVISION SERIES: BRAVES VS DODGERS
October 5, 2018
Brian Snitker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Brian, what has Ronald Acuna meant to this team, and what most impresses you about him, either physically or mentally?  
BRIAN SNITKER: Well, he's meant the world to our club.  I mean, when he showed up, it just -- you know, his skill set, talent level, the whole thing has just been a big boost for us.  I think the energy that he plays with, the excitement that he creates.  I mean, everybody -- it's kind of like when he comes to the plate, it's one of those guys you don't want to miss because he might do something really special.   
The whole game at his age and the experience, you know, some of the takes that he has.  He doesn't -- he's not a big chaser for a young hitter, very disciplined at the plate, the feel, the game clock, the whole thing has been very impressive for a kid that age and the experience level that he has.   
You know, I think everybody -- young players tend to energize everybody.  And we have a good group of those guys that play with a lot of emotion, a lot of energy, a lot of confidence.  That's another thing that a guy like that really impresses me is they're where they think they should be.  I mean, these situations aren't too big for them.  They're very confident in their abilities, and it shows when he plays.   
 Q.  That kind of goes with what I was going to ask.  Just watching out there they seem at ease.  They don't seem to be tense or at all affected by the fact you're down 0-1 against these guys out here.  
BRIAN SNITKER: No, I don't think so because we've been kind of in this situation all year.  I mean, there's been number -- and we've talked about that over the course of the summer.  There's checking off boxes and it's like, man, if we get through this stretch or that stretch, we gotta get through this road trip.  And they did.  And I think it's good -- obviously we wanted to win that game yesterday.  I think now they're into this, the postseason, now it's not a real new thing anymore.  They've experienced it, the whole hype going into it, the actual game.  And I think they feel good about themselves.   
 Q.  That said, do you get a sense that they realize there is somewhat of a sense of urgency to win tonight?  
BRIAN SNITKER: Yeah.  I mean, I think everybody's -- they're all aware enough to know that this is, you know, we gotta win three out of four now.  And the best thing we can do -- I've been telling them all year, the most important game we play is tonight's, and it's no different.  And that's the only thing we can control right now is today, tonight.   
And so I think they'll -- you know, going against a pretty good pitcher again.  But, you know, I feel really good where they're at.  I mean how they're carrying themselves, and the vibe that I get in the clubhouse is good.   
 Q.  How much did last night's game affect maybe your pitching plans moving forward from even a starting pitching standpoint and bullpen, and are you ready to announce a Game 3 starter?  
BRIAN SNITKER: Yeah.  Well, tentatively right now, we're going to lean towards Gausman.  That being said, I was going to send him back today, but we're not.  I'm going to hold onto him just in case something happens tonight.  If it does and he has to pitch, then we'll adjust and regroup from there.  But as of right now, if everything goes where it is, he'll be the Game 3 starter.   
 Q.  Can you talk about how Johan Camargo took ownership of third base about the third week of May and how he's been since then?  
BRIAN SNITKER: You know, going into the off-season, there was a lot of us -- I mean, I kind of made the statements, said I'm not sure this kid isn't an everyday big leaguer.  I mean, he came last year and was pretty impressive.  Played him around the diamond, and we came to Spring Training with thoughts that he was going to be our third baseman.  Then he got hurt.  And when he got back, we plugged him in.  And we kind of look up there and the season is playing out, and it's like you know what?  He has shown that he can play every day, and he's had a really good year.   
And he's another one that is, I think, going to get bigger, stronger.  He's a kid that plays winter ball.  He goes to the Dominican and plays every year, and I think that's really helped him in his ascent to the major leagues.  I think playing in those -- it's high pressure.  I've seen videos of him hitting walk offs and it's crazy.  It's like playoffs there all the time.  And I think that's really helped him in his maturity as a player, and development, and been a big reason why he's where he is right now with us.   
 Q.  What's making you lean toward Gausman for Game 3?  
BRIAN SNITKER: Well, he's just been really good for us since we got him.  I mean, he's been a guy that -- you know, like I said, he's pitched very well for us.  So I mean, end of the year when we were going forward, we were looking at him as probably he's going to be one of the first three that we pitch in the playoffs.   
 Q.  Obviously there's a game tonight, but have you allowed yourself to think about getting back to Atlanta, what you hope can transpire when you guys get back home?  
BRIAN SNITKER: No, not really.  I'm really just thinking about the game tonight.  Like I said, I don't know if it would do any good to look ahead because we just gotta focus on today and go out and win it.   
 Q.  How beneficial was that for Sobotka and Fried and some of the other guys to get out there?  
BRIAN SNITKER: Well, Newcomb, Sobotka, Fried, all them, it was really good for them to get out and experience that.  It was a good experience for all our young position players, or even -- all of them that haven't been in a playoff.  I keep alluding, Charlie is the closest guy -- he's the one that's been in the playoffs the most recently.  So it was good for, I think, our whole team, everybody, especially those young relievers to get out there and feel that.   
 Q.  Do you have any plan for Folty's availability for the rest of the series?  
BRIAN SNITKER: Yeah.  No, I think, you know, as we look forward, to me he'd be in the conversation on Game 4, you know, if it came down to it.  Yeah.   
 Q.  Would we see him out of the bullpen in any capacity or are you going to hold off until a potential start?  
BRIAN SNITKER: Yeah, probably the next thing he would do if we need that would probably be as a starter.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT