NL DIVISION SERIES: BRAVES VS DODGERS
October 4, 2018
Brian Snitker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Los Angeles - 6, Atlanta - 0   
 Q.  Snit, what did you see from Folty early tonight and then once you got there to the second inning and you made a decision -- or third inning -- to allow him to bat.  Was that an influence of where you were with your bench?  
BRIAN SNITKER: Just where we were with the bench and at the time, there was nobody -- I didn't want to burn a player there.  Just overthrown.  I think he was amped up, overthrown, got out of the delivery a little bit.  He got hurt quick, really.  I mean, we're lucky he got out of the first inning.  But, you know, it was just a situation there you get behind against a guy like that, we were just trying to try and stop the bleeding there a little bit.   
 Q.  What did Ryu do so effectively tonight?  
BRIAN SNITKER: Just really I think changeup was a huge pitch for him, just kept us off balance.  I mean, I looked up -- typically we're not a team that strikes out a lot, and I think that just the fastball command really kept us off balance I thought the whole night, especially some really good right-hand hitters.  He's obviously tough on all of us.  But I think just looking at him, the changeup was really good for him.   
 Q.  Brian, how much of the walks tonight, not just Folty, but the whole staff were guys not putting the ball over the plate and how much of it --  
BRIAN SNITKER: Yeah, it hurts.  I mean, we've been battling that for a while now.  It's kind of been an Achilles' heel of ours, and we've been trying to pitch around it, through it, work on it.  Like I say, this isn't the first game the last month or so that it's hurt us.  I think the big thing was, too, it was just like we just couldn't get anything going offensively.   
 Q.  You've had this several times, many times this year you've come back from your worst stretches, bad series.  Are you confident --  
BRIAN SNITKER: Yeah.   
 Q.  That your team having gone through that can do the same thing tomorrow?  
BRIAN SNITKER: Yeah.  You know, I think you know what, it was like a lot of guys out there tonight and played in a playoff game.  And I think they were jacked up and excited, and it's a big moment to this point in their career, Folty included.  And take nothing away from what he did all year, I mean.  And it was good for him to experience this.  And I think guys now, since we have experienced it, they've been through a lot, they've come back a lot all year, like you say.  And I think they'll come back with a little more sense of what we're in for tomorrow.   
 Q.  We've seen Max Fried looked good out of the bullpen this season, but to see him and Sean Newcomb come in and do what they did, how encouraging was that?  
BRIAN SNITKER: The bullpen did a really good job of keeping the game in check and giving us a chance.  At the time I kind of felt like, too, that this was a big game here, because you lose this game, now you gotta beat them three out of four, and that's a tough chore.  But I just felt like it was really good to see how Max and Newcomb came out and just attacked the zone, and they did a really, really, really good job.   
 Q.  You mentioned how a lot of your young guys got experience tonight, it was a rough night for Acuna.  Did he miss a sign there?  
BRIAN SNITKER: Yeah.  We held him.  And you know, I know he probably looked at Wash and looked right through him.  In his mind, he's an aggressive kid.  He wants to make something happen, but in that situation we held him, he missed a sign and we probably ran him 3-2.  I've had it happen to me before as a third base coach.  Those guys sometimes you'll put a sign on and they're looking right through you.  It happens.  That wasn't by any stretch anything that cost us the game or anything like that.  It was just a kid, I think, that was out there and thinking that his teammate's going to put that ball in play and he's going to try to help make something happen.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT