NL DIVISION SERIES: BRAVES VS DODGERS
October 3, 2018
Brian Snitker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Snit, do you feel pretty confident about where your roster stands right now?  You talked about there may be some late-minute changes.  Do you feel like you have a pretty good idea what it will be?
BRIAN SNITKER: Yeah.  I think we met today for an extended period, and, you know, we're kind of right there with it and feel good about it, yeah.
Q. Have you decided what you're going to do in Games 2 and 3 with starters?
BRIAN SNITKER: Game 2 will be Anibal Sanchez, and 3, we're kind of going to do as we've done in the past and through the course of the year just kind of wait and see how we get there.
Q. And Game 2, is that veteran experience?
BRIAN SNITKER: Anibal has been pitching really good for us, as has Folty.  It's just kind of a natural fit right there and want him out there, in case we have to bring him back.
Q. Is there any update on Dansby?
BRIAN SNITKER: Yeah.  He's still getting treatment.  You know, he did yesterday.  I mean I don't -- I'm not real optimistic right now.  We'll probably know more, I mean, the doctors are still at him and trying things today.  But it's still kind of a long shot, I think, that he's going to be okay to play.
Q. On a different note, people have made -- or just talked about the experience level of the Dodgers postseason.  Your team might not have as much.  How much weight do you put on that?
BRIAN SNITKER: They don't have as much.  It's not even might about it.  They don't.
Q. How much weight do you put on the experience factor going into a postseason?
BRIAN SNITKER: Well, I mean I think it's real.  It's real.  But we got a bunch of young guys that they had never experienced September either, you know, having to win and chasing a division.  And then it didn't phase them a bit.  Enthusiasm, energy, the way they approached the games was pretty encouraging that I'm not sure that -- and we don't know until we get out there and play, but I have all the confidence in the world that these guys are just going to go out there and continue to play the game that they've been playing the last six months.
Q. Dodgers were in a tight division race, played Monday.  What are you saying to your guys to make sure you're at the level where you're competing in October?
BRIAN SNITKER: That I just don't want them to do anything different than what they've done, because what they've done is good enough, you know, just to play with that emotion and aggression and the energy that they've been doing.  And I've been here in playoff scenarios before, and there's not going to be any shortage of those guys getting amped up and being ready to go.  Just let it fly.
I mean they've been doing that all year.  They've had a really good time playing baseball.  It's a really neat group for me to be around in that respect, how they like to work and they prepare very well.  And then when they go out, just to let it fly and not be careful.
Q. Clayton Kershaw typically starts Game 1 for the Dodgers in the postseason.  What was your reaction finding out it would be Ryu tomorrow and does your lineup change?
BRIAN SNITKER: No.  It'll be the same lineup as if Kershaw is pitching also.  And I didn't really think about it.  We just kind of assumed that Kershaw would.  If they change, so be it.  And that's -- we're just going to play whoever pitches that day and prepare like we -- we'll prepare for whoever pitches against us.  We'll prepare the same.
Q. You had talked about the possibility of carrying three catchers also during those discussions.  Did you ever reach a point where with Swanson's status where you said, well, maybe we can go seven relievers or kind of went back and forth between seven or eight relievers?
BRIAN SNITKER: Yeah.  Well, we had all those discussions.  Even if Dansby could defend and run and all that.  But I'm not -- we left all options open, and probably after the workout tonight we'll reconvene and put some finalization to it.  But yeah, we've discussed all those options that you were talking about.
Q. Charlie Culberson really contributed last year for the Dodgers.  He's contributed majorly for your club.  What's your take on the way he's performed for the Braves?
BRIAN SNITKER: He's probably been arguably maybe our most valuable player.  I mean Acuna hurt his knee for a month and Charlie filled in in left field.  Ozzie had a little hamstring tightness coming out of the break, and he performed there.  He's had some big pinch hits.  I mean, you know, he's the one guy on our team that a lot of guys were going to because he's had the most recent experience in the playoffs.
But he's been great for us.  My God, that's been a really good acquisition for us, because he's so professional, stays ready.  And it doesn't bother him wherever.  You know he pitched an inning and he threw really good.  He stays prepared and he's a total pro.  And we're very fortunate to have him.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT