U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2018
Michael Thorbjornsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Obviously made it to the semifinals.  Just some first thoughts on that.  
MICHAEL THORBJORNSEN: I mean, first time playing in this tournament I so feel like it's a great accomplishment.  I'm just taking one shot, one round at time and really looking forward to it.   
 Q.  You got up and kind of took the lead after the first few holes.  Talk about that.  
MICHAEL THORBJORNSEN: Yeah, I on hole No. 2 I stuck it to about six inches and Joe gave me the putt for birdie.   
Then he proceeded to miss his 12-footer, and from there I was 1-up.  Quickly lost it by three-putting the next hole.   
Then on hole 6 I made a 15-footer for birdie; 360 looped, lipped in.  I was pretty much 1-up the rest of the match until I think hole 13.   
 Q.  And then can you talk about 13, 14, 15.  
MICHAEL THORBJORNSEN: So on hole 13 Joe took driver; I took 3-iron off the tee.  So I had around 128, which is close to a full 50 for me.   
Right when I made contact it felt a little weird.  I felt like my club had just turned on it.  So it was pin high, just around 20 feet left, 15 feet left, and Joe was around I would say 70 yards of he just left his shot short and two-putted while I made my 20-footer.  It just barely trickled in.   
And then on the next hole I got a little fortunate.  I hit my drive into the trees while Joe hit it in the middle of the fairway.  I had to punch out underneath a two-foot-tall tree.  It was really kind of a tough shot, so I thought about it.   
Yesterday I had the same shot on hole 1.  Take a 6-iron, punch it underneath, leave it just short of the pin.   
I did that, and then actually chipped in for birdie just like I did on hole 1 yesterday.  From there on I felt like the momentum change and in control of the match.   
 Q.  And then on a day like today when you have another match, if you win later if the afternoon and coming off two matches yesterday, how important is it, do you think, to finish it out and get it done a few holes early?  
MICHAEL THORBJORNSEN: Yeah, I mean, definitely I'm pretty fortunate that I -- like I finished most of my matches before 18 holes.  Gives me enough time to rest for the following match in the afternoon.   
It just makes me feel good about myself as well just knowing I can win these matches and proceed to the next ones as well.   
 Q.  Then coming in I know you said this is your first USGA Championship.  Is this exceeding your expectations?  
MICHAEL THORBJORNSEN: I wasn't really sure what to expect.  I felt definitely like making match play, that was just my first goal, because anything can happen during stroke play.  Who knows?   
But I felt like once I made match play I could put on a pretty good run and maybe make the finals or get to semifinals or whatever.   
But this is -- I'm playing pretty well, so I should expect to go pretty far in this tournament.   
 Q.  Going into the semifinal match this afternoon what's the mindset?  
MICHAEL THORBJORNSEN: Just going to keep it nice and simple.  So I'm going to stick to my game plan like usual and just have a good time out there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT