U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2018
Michael Thorbjornsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You advance to the quarterfinals.  What are your first thoughts on that?  
MICHAEL THORBJORNSEN: Kind of got away with it a little bit.  I wasn't playing as well as I did this morning, but I still managed to hit some good shots and pretty much just grind through it.   
 Q.  And then you got up really fast and just kept it from there.  Talk about that.  
MICHAEL THORBJORNSEN: Yeah, 1st hole I don't know what happened.  I snapped my drive into the hazard.  Punched out; still in the trees.  Hit a hack from the fescue to the front of the green; chipped it in for par.   
While my opponent, he was in the fairway.  Hit his second shot about 30 feet short of the pin, still on the green, and ended up three-putting.  That was a huge momentum swinger.  Then I think from there I was 4-up after 6 or 5.   
 Q.  Yeah, after 5.  
MICHAEL THORBJORNSEN: Yeah, that really helped.  I mean, huge momentum swing right there.   
 Q.  Can you talk about your birdies on 2 and 3?  
MICHAEL THORBJORNSEN: Yeah, on 2 I mean, if I hit my driver well here and keep it in the fairway I feel like I always have a good chance at attacking the pins.   
I hit a nice little fade 7-iron to avoid that tree and get to that back pin.  Hit it to around ten feet and made the putt right in the middle.   
And then the next hole I just tried to play it the same way I did early this morning.  Hit it close to where I was and then had around a 30-footer that broke about eight feet, I would say, and trickled nicely in.   
 Q.  How about on 8?  
MICHAEL THORBJORNSEN: On 8 I hit a really good drive just right of the bunker.  I mean, it was 197 to the pin, 190 to carry the bunker, and I wasn't sure how I would hit my 6-iron or 5-iron, so I decided to take an extra club.   
Hit my 5-iron to the back of the green and two-putted nicely.   
 Q.  And then what about on 14?  
MICHAEL THORBJORNSEN: On 14 I -- my opponent went for the green in one.  I decided to just lay up with a 5-iron and have a nice little yardage that I really like.  Landed it about a foot short of the pin, checked up, and went about eight feet by.   
 Q.  And then going into tomorrow's quarterfinals, is there anything you want to work on or are you just going to kind of stay with the same game plan?  
MICHAEL THORBJORNSEN: Definitely going to stick to the same game plan.  Just on the range tomorrow morning just make sure that I'm hitting my drive straight, because that's just -- that's going to be my setup for the whole day tomorrow.   
 Q.  Obviously two matches in one day.  It's a lot.  What's the key to make sure you have enough to finish it out?  
MICHAEL THORBJORNSEN: Definitely having a good breakfast for that morning match.  After that match, make sure I'm not running around goofing off; just relaxing and taking my time.  Make sure I have a good lunch at that point.   
And then throughout that afternoon round just take things nice and slow.  Don't walk too fast, make sure I'm staying hydrated, and eating good nutrition and stuff like that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT