U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2019
Michael Thorbjornsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You ran into somebody who had kind of a hot day, especially with that shot he hit in her to 18 and the putt he made.  
MICHAEL THORBJORNSEN: Right, yeah.  Yeah, I mean, all I was thinking on the tee box is just, I mean, set myself up for birdie.  I mean, as long as I do that, I mean, however, even if it's that way, you can't be too disappointed in yourself.   
I personally feel like I didn't played that bad.  I did have some small hiccups and stuff like that, but I felt like I played good enough to win.   
 Q.  He took the lead on you and you fought back.  
MICHAEL THORBJORNSEN: Yeah.  I mean, I feel like we were both struggling towards the end of the round, especially on 17.  He hit some pretty good shots from the rough and made some pretty good putts towards the end.   
I mean, I hadn't made anything this whole week.  I think my longest putt I made was yesterday on my 1st hole, like 12, 15 feet for birdie.   
Other than that, haven't really made anything over 10 feet.   
 Q.  Difficult right now, but what do you take from this whole year, all the things that have happened to you and playing in the U.S. Open?  How much are you reflecting on everything that's happened to this point?  
MICHAEL THORBJORNSEN: I feel like I haven't done that well this year, to be honest.  I mean, other than the U.S. Open.  Like I only played two good rounds there.  But just making the cut, yeah, that's obviously a great accomplishment.  And playing two good rounds there to put me in that position obviously tells me that, I mean, I could play some tough courses.   
Even here I felt like I played pretty well these past four rounds.  I mean, I don't think I shot -- I think I might have shot an even today, maybe 1-over, I'm not sure.   
But, yeah, I feel pretty good about the rest of the summer and then the next years to come, especially at Stanford.   
 Q.  What are you planning now for the rest of the year?  
MICHAEL THORBJORNSEN: After this kind of have a break depending on whether I play Junior PGA or not.  Next official tournament is the U.S. Am, and then I think week and a half after that and Junior Players at TPC.   
 Q.  Have you played Pinehurst before?  
MICHAEL THORBJORNSEN: Not played Pinehurst No 2, but I've played Pinehurst No.4.  That was before the, what do you call it, the reconstruction of everything.  That was like also I think five years ago.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT