U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 17, 2019
Michael Thorbjornsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Off to a good start in match play.  What did you do well today?
MICHAEL THORBJORNSEN: I just pretty much just played all around a little solid again.  Maybe not as solid as those?  First two rounds in stroke play, but it got the job done.  My stroke game really helped towards the end.
Then, I mean, basically on a tough course like this you just have to play as solidly as you can and just let your opponent make mistakes.
Q. It was still a tight match until you got to the turn, and then you kind of pulled away.  What did you do well there to break away in the match?
MICHAEL THORBJORNSEN: So I think I started winning holes at I think it was 12.
Q. Yeah.
MICHAEL THORBJORNSEN: So that's kind of a long par-3.  I just hit it in the middle the green.  I mean, if you're not hitting it that well that can be kind of a tough green to hit, and my opponent hit it left of the bunker, which is a pretty hard up and down.
And then off the tee on the next hole I hit a good iron.  I mean, probably should have hit 3-wood, but I still was in the fairway and hit my 3-wood, so front of the green.
Off the tee shot he hit his in the rough.  This rough is pretty tough, so wherever you are, just keeping it in the fairway and then...
Q. Was that conceded birdie on the Par 5?
MICHAEL THORBJORNSEN: Yes.  After I think a putt kind of close.  And then on then final hole I just hit my 3-wood in the middle just trying to guarantee a fairway so I can hit my driver.
And then I hit my 7-iron I think to like two feet and he then just gave me the putt there.  He needed to chip in, and after he missed it the match was over there.
Q. How do you feel right now as opposed to how you felt last year at this point?
MICHAEL THORBJORNSEN: I can't really remember what I felt last year.  I can't really remember who I played.  But, yeah, I'm just glad it's just one match today.  Got to really restore your batteries from the past few days, and then just tomorrow whatever happens it's going to be a long day either way.  Even if you win the first match and lose the second or win both, it's still long.  You're still playing 36 holes.
Q. Are you in the right spot mentally to play the rest of the week?
MICHAEL THORBJORNSEN: I feel like some few things just more so like of the golfing part where like having more confidence in that certain area would help, but I feel pretty good.  I feel like it's not that far out of reach, and I feel like all it would take is one more practice session on the range.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT