U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2018
Michael Thorbjornsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You played awful well today.  Can you give us an idea of just how the day went?  
MICHAEL THORBJORNSEN: I mean, basically the whole of today was hitting the ball pretty well.  Started off a little rough at the beginning just because wasn't really making a lot of putts.   
But I had an unfortunate bogey on the reachable par-5.  I think 7 it is.   
 Q.  Uh-huh.  
MICHAEL THORBJORNSEN: That put me to 1-over.  I just felt like if I just keep playing my game and stick to what I've been doing the whole first six holes that things should go my way and I should make some putts.   
 Q.  Did you learn anything from playing with those two older guys who have a lot of experience?  What did you think of that pairing?  It's kind of an interesting pairing.  
MICHAEL THORBJORNSEN: Yeah, I thought it was actually pretty funny.  Went into the USGA a few days before my practice rounds and stuff and saw the tee times.  It said like one of the groups to watch.  So we have me at 16 years old; I think one of them is 40; and then the other is 56.  Quite the age gap.  One for junior golf, mid-amateur golf, and then senior golf.   
So I think that's pretty cool, just seeing we're the best, like some of the best junior golfers, mid-ams, and senior golfers out there.  That was pretty fun.   
 Q.  Did you take the time to pick their brains over the last couple days?  
MICHAEL THORBJORNSEN: Not really.  I was actually pretty zoned out.  Just focusing on my own game.  I mean, you really need all the attention you can get on this -- I mean, these two golf courses being pretty hard really took all my attention.   
 Q.  And obviously we saw you at the Junior Amateur, and then you stayed hot and had a hole-in-one at the Wyndham Cup and now you're ear here and playing well again.  Where is it all coming from?  
MICHAEL THORBJORNSEN: I mean, I had a pretty good year at IMG.  I mean, towards the spring semester things were going a little downhill, but I just had -- I did a personal swing change just at the beginning of the summer just to tighten my swing, make sure I don't really have any loose parts out there.   
I just feel pretty good about my game.  Just my iron play is always usually top notch.  Just right now the reason why I think I'm playing well is I took like four days off after Junior PGA until I got here.   
It was really needed, just because my body was sore and wrists were really hurting.   
 Q.  When you say you've tightened up your swing, does give you more control?  More distance?  What does that do for you?  
MICHAEL THORBJORNSEN: Just better control and more consistency.  Just like my misses, I would know what my misses are, more consistent misses, and I can just play for that on the course.   
 Q.  What is the miss you're playing for?  
MICHAEL THORBJORNSEN: I mean, right now I have kind of like a blocking issue, especially with my driver.  Usually my driver is pretty good, but just lately it's been pushed to the right, as well as the longer irons.   
 Q.  Now you're going to be playing match play over at Pebble.  What's that experience like for a young fellow, to be playing a course that you see on TV so much and now you're actually playing it?  
MICHAEL THORBJORNSEN: It's amazing just going out to play there again.  I played a practice round and my first round here, and I just can't wait to go back out there and look at the views; just take it all in, and hopefully play well at the same time.   
 Q.  With all the experience that you got at the Junior in match play, how are you mentally now heading into this match play of a U.S. Amateur?  
MICHAEL THORBJORNSEN: I'm not really putting that -- I'm taking only the good parts from it.  Mostly just saying to myself, Okay, you've been doing pretty well in match play lately.  Just keep doing what you're doing.  Keep the same game plan you had that week.   
But as for like who I'm playing and what I should be expecting from my opponent is just completely different because this is amateur golf.  Amateurs are -- I mean, they tend to be better than the junior golfers.  I mean, I hope so.   
We'll just go from there and see.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT