U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2018
Michael Thorbjornsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Is this your first time out here?
MICHAEL THORBJORNSEN: Yes, it is, other than my practice round.
Q. What do you think?
MICHAEL THORBJORNSEN: It's absolutely wonderful.  Just the scenes from all the holes on the coast, I mean, even when you're not playing those holes, you can see from all around the whole course.  It's just really a lot to take in.  I mean, whenever you're waiting on a shot, you can just look into the ocean and just zone out.  Just an amazing place to be.
Q. I think you doubled the second hole, the 11th hole, your second hole.  What then happened that got you back going the right direction?
MICHAEL THORBJORNSEN: I mean, I felt that if I can drive the ball well -- I wasn't really -- I didn't drive the ball well on that hole.  I just push sliced one into the woods OB and that's really what I've been fighting this whole week.  I felt like if I can just set up my driver and set up some good iron shots, I can have some good looks at birdie.  I proceeded to do that later throughout the round.  I really took advantage like when I could.  I definitely knew when to attack and when to just hold back and take the par.  But I felt like I played pretty solid, but I didn't really -- I probably shot the best I could with the way that I played.  Normally it's a little bit different.
Q. In a championship like this, in your mind what's more important, is it getting the drive in the fairway or is it just being in position to be able to attack the pins when they're available?
MICHAEL THORBJORNSEN: I'd say getting my drives in the fairway just because ball-striking is the best part of my game, and I feel like if I can set myself up, get the ball in the fairway and just have a good angle in, most of the time it's going to be within 15, 20 feet and I'll have a really good look at birdie.
Q. 1-under a good way to start on this course?
MICHAEL THORBJORNSEN: Yeah, I definitely think so.  Just under par, be somewhere in the top of the leaderboard heading into tomorrow, just basically trying to make match play and go from there.
Q. What do you think you need to work on tonight?
MICHAEL THORBJORNSEN: Definitely my driving, just to keep that up, and actually a couple things, some distance control with my wedges.  That was kind of off today.  And then finally just some lag putting, just to make sure if I'm not in position, just get the ball on the green, anywhere on the green, and a two-putt is guaranteed.  So really going to go for that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT