NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 19, 2016
J.R. Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Cavaliers 93, Warriors 89
J.R. SMITH: It was a great win.  It was a great team win overall.  I mean, I can't really say enough about our guys.  It was 89-89 it felt like for three days, and it was really only probably a minute and a half.  The way we fought and everything we worked for and this year was bottled down to a minute and a half.  So we had to buckle down.  Fortunately we got stops and Kyrie just had a hell of a shot.
Q. And coming back from a deficit of 3-1?
J.R. SMITH: I mean, coming back from a deficit is extremely tough.  We just looked at it as we want to take it a quarter at a time and game at a time, and one by one we just chipped it off.
I mean, can't say enough about our leaders, between Kyrie, Kev and LeBron.  I mean, I didn't realize LeBron had a triple-double.  Just everything they do is for the team, and we appreciate it.
Q. Did you ever think you were going to get to this point?
J.R. SMITH: I mean, I thought about it a lot, honestly, getting to this point.  The more my career went on it kind of dwindled, and it was more about just playing the game.  I've been playing this game fortunately for me since I was three years old.  That's one of the reasons why this game is so special to me.
Today is so special to me.  It's on Father's Day.  My dad put the ball in my crib.
Q. Today is Father's Day.  I remember listening to an interview with you talking about working at your father's construction job and knowing that that's not what you want to do with your life.  Can you just talk about the role that he's played in your life and what it means to you to be able to share this moment with him?
J.R. SMITH: I mean, my parents, my family, that's the biggest inspiration in my life.  I've been in a lot of dark spots in my life, and if it wasn't for them, I wouldn't be able to get out of it.  But they are who they are.  They fought with me.  They yelled at me, they screamed at me, they loved me, they hugged me, they cried with me, and they always stuck by my side no matter right or wrong.
I know a lot of people don't have their parents in their life, their mother, their father, but I've got the best two you could ask for, I swear.  There's six of us, and they didn't treat any of us different.  They loved us the same.  They treated us all the same, and I just wanted to be like them when I grow up.
I mean, my dad is easily one of my biggest inspirations to play this game.  To hear people talk bad about me, it hurts me because I know it hurts him, and that's not who I am.  And I know he raised me better, and I know I want to do better.  Just everything I do is for my parents and my family.  I mean, I don't really -- the cars are nice, the houses are nice, but none of this matters without them.  If it wasn't for them, I wouldn't be here.  I don't know where I would be, honestly.  If it wasn't for them, if it wasn't for the structure and the backbone that I have, I wouldn't be able to mess up and keep coming back and being able to sit in front of you as a world champion.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT