NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 18, 2016
J.R. Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  The Warriors were talking about how they haven't been themselves.  Is that something that you guys feel you're doing to take them out of their game?  
J.R. SMITH: I mean, that's what we're trying to do.  We'll watch the film, and sometimes they've got good looks that they have missed and other times we just played great, solid defense.  So for us, it's just we're trying to take them out of their game as much as we can.   
 Q.  What is your approach to Game 7?  
J.R. SMITH: I'd like to play the best I can and try not to get screened.  Scramble and try to come up with every 50-50 ball.   
 Q.  Focus on detail, your assignments?  
J.R. SMITH: Yeah, absolutely.  I know without those little things or without my assignments, that big picture can't happen.  We've got to stay locked in as much as we can.   
 Q.  Did you like having chance to trigger the offense and be the focus a little bit?  
J.R. SMITH: Oh, yeah, I don't mind.  It's different.  It's not traditional.  I don't mind doing it.   
 Q.  How do you feel your series has gone as opposed to last year's Finals when you guys had some tough moments?  Are you pretty happy how things have gone?  
J.R. SMITH: I mean, I'm just happy we've got a full team and we're all here together more than anything.  Whether I score two points or 30 points, it really doesn't matter as long as we win.   
 Q.  You caught a great pass from LeBron where you went under the basket and whipped something out there.  Talk about the kind of passes he makes and how he compares to other people?  
J.R. SMITH: Yeah, he's an unbelievable passer.  He knows where everybody is on the floor.  I was supposed to be in the corner, and he let me know that looking at the film.  But he found me. He makes so many passes to myself, and the team, Kevin, Kyrie.  He's probably the best passer I've ever played with as far as vision.  Being that big, strong and fast.  And to be able to see the court the way he does, it's remarkable.   
 Q.  Are you ever amazed by him, or are you used to it by now?  
J.R. SMITH: Oh, I mean, I get used to it sometimes.  But after you watch the film, you really take for granted what he does out there on the court.  I mean, he's everywhere.  So to be able to lead The Finals in every statistical category, it's amazing.  Nobody's really done it.  So I try not to get star-struck with watching.   
 Q.  Do you believe a player could be The Finals MVP even if the other team wins?  Do you think LeBron should get that honor one way or the other?  
J.R. SMITH: Oh, he should have gotten that last year, if that's the case.  It's just a matter of -- I guess it's based on who wins.  But I believe he could.  But we'll try to be on the winning side of that.  If we win and Steph gets it, I don't care.  It doesn't matter.   
 Q.  With all their defensive switches, you guys are getting a lot of good matchups against Curry.  I mean, he had to guard LeBron a few times, and he's obviously had to guard Kyrie quite a bit.  Are you guys making him work extra hard on defense, and maybe that's the reason he got in foul trouble?  
J.R. SMITH: I mean, we try to as much as we can.  More than anything, we don't want him to just sit there and rest on the defensive end where he gets his legs and stuff like that coming down on the offensive end.  So we try to make it work on both sides as much as possible.   
 Q.  Did something change with LeBron after the Draymond incident?  It seems like he's taken it to another level?  
J.R. SMITH: Yes, I guess.  He had played well before that.  But scoring-wise, I think he's more aggressive more than anything.  He just has that relentless effort to get to the basket as much as he can. And also making jumpers. I know whoever he is, I hope he stays where he's at right now.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT