NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 12, 2016
J.R. Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What do you make of Draymond's suspension?  Do you guys feel like you'll have a good shot at Game 5 without him?  
J.R. SMITH: They've still got good players.  They play well whether he's on or not on the floor.  We've just got to come out and play.   
 Q.  What adjustments will you all have to make now that Draymond is out?  
J.R. SMITH: We've just got to keep attacking.  That's the only adjustment, if any.  Everybody just keep attacking and the lane will open for us.  He's a pretty good defender, so driving lanes should be open when we do drive the ball.   
 Q.  Are the refs allowing a lot more physicality in The Finals?  
J.R. SMITH: I don't really look at it like that.  My job really doesn't change.  Just chasing off of screens, it's always going to be physical for me.  I'm not really in the paint like the rest of the guys are.  I'm on the three-point line on the offensive end and on the defensive end I'm probably on the three-point line because Klay is such a good shooter.   
 Q.  You picked a few pockets in Game 3.  Would you say steals are one of the things you focus on besides your shooting, of course?  
J.R. SMITH: Yeah, just try to stay active and keep my hands around the ball.  I try not to reach, but if the opportunity is there, I'm going to take my chances.   
 Q.  What was your initial reaction about Draymond?  Were you with the team, were you by yourself?  
J.R. SMITH: I was with the fellas, yeah.  I didn't think much of it.  I mean, regardless if he doesn't play, we've still got to win the game.   
 Q.  What is the approach going into tomorrow night's game? Possession by possession?  Quarter by quarter?  
J.R. SMITH: Possession by possession.  We want to take it as slow as possible, but we want to play fast.  It's kind of weird.  Our defense, communicate as loud as we can, give all the effort we've got.  Our offense, move the ball, play together, and we'll see what happens.   
 Q.  Is that the biggest thing from watching the tape from last game, especially in the second half?  
J.R. SMITH: Yeah, we just didn't communicate on certain parts of our defense.  [Kyrie Irving] and I got mixed up on two switches and allowed Klay hit a three; I think Steph missed his.  We can control communicating and stuff like that.  Everything else, we just have to play with effort.   
 Q.  Some of the Warriors players, Klay Thompson in particular, kind of took aim at LeBron for talking about the trash talk and they said it should have stayed between the lines of the court.  Do you feel like there are trigger words, quote/unquote, that shouldn't be said?  What do you feel about having that discussion if those words were said?  
J.R. SMITH: There are definitely things you can't say.  Regardless of whether it's inside the lines, outside the lines, I don't really care.  We've got to win.  I don't care how they feel about it.  I don't care how we feel about it.  We've got to win.  That's plain and simple.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT