NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 1, 2016
J.R. Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Are you ready for a three-point shootout?
J.R. SMITH: I am.  I'm always ready for a three-point shootout.  I don't know if that's what it's going to be on our side for us to win, but if that's what it takes, I'm ready.
Q. Do you think they'll bait you into shooting to try to get you guys to play that way?
J.R. SMITH: I wouldn't say bait us into shooting.  I think we have enough talented players to get our own shots.  If they let us shoot, hopefully we make them.  If we don't, we'll try to figure something else out.
Q. The kind of shooting that you guys have had this year and your game, how much more dangerous does that make LeBron James?
J.R. SMITH: I think it complements him extremely well.  He's able to play one-on-one, get downhill, attack the basket if he wants to.  As well as Kyrie [Irving].  It makes everybody else stay home, so it helps us a lot.
Q. How much are you looking forward to playing this Finals against this team at full strength this year?
J.R. SMITH: Whether it was them or OKC, I was extremely excited.  They're a great team.  Obviously, 73-9, best record ever, and coming off winning a championship last year.  It's going to be a huge test for us, but we're up to it.
Q. I know you didn't make excuses last year, but was it frustrating to play at this level not at full strength?
J.R. SMITH: Yeah, it was.  Obviously, having Kevin [Love] and Kyrie out was a huge factor for us.  Everybody was supposed to step up.  Unfortunately, we missed shots, and the rest is history.
But we're in a situation with the guys we have to do something special.  We've just got to put forth the effort.
Q. How much different do you think you are this year compared to last in terms of the three-point threat?  You've hit more threes than anybody in the Playoffs this year.  You and Channing [Frye] and Kyrie and Kevin are killing it in that area.
J.R. SMITH: Like I said, it definitely helps us.  It stretches the floor.  Channing, [Richard Jefferson], our bench is huge.  When LeBron is in there with the second unit, the floor's still spaced and he gets downhill.  We've been known as a three-point shooting team this year in the Playoffs, but we still have to mix it up a little bit with Kev.  So it will be interesting to see.
Q. What is the most valuable experience for you from last year's Final appearance?
J.R. SMITH: Just not to get too high on the highs, not get too low on the lows.  We had a chance to do something nice, without those two, last year.  Unfortunately, we couldn't get it done.
We've just got to stay grounded more than anything.  When we go on our runs, we've got to look past the celebrations and whatnot and stay focused.
Q. Obviously the chemistry of your team, and you guys are together now, and what do you feel you bring to that in terms of personality?
J.R. SMITH: I think we definitely jelled the last 15, 13 games of the season.  Our camaraderie for the last two months has been very spectacular on and off the court.  I think everybody understands where everyone's coming from and we understand what we need from one another.
For me, it was just trying to pick the energy up.  As a starter I can have an impact on the game early, get the guys rolling, get us running in the open court.  Q. LeBron in particular seems to enjoy having fun with you.  Do you think that's really important?  Is that kind of why you are the way you are?
J.R. SMITH: Yeah, absolutely.  First and foremost, if this game isn't fun, nobody should be playing it.  We've got to have fun out here.  Of course everybody wants to win, but if you're not having fun, there is no business playing this game.  That's one thing we do I think more than most teams.  We enjoy playing each other.  We enjoy being around one another.  I think a lot of that has to do with why we're here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT