NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 10, 2015
J.R. Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   So Dellavedova had to go to the hospital last night.   Did you have a chance to talk to him? 
J.R. SMITH:   I talked to him a little.   But I didn't talk to him about the hospital.

Q.   How's he feeling? 
J.R. SMITH:   He's feeling pretty good.   Dehydrated.   Tired as hell, I'm sure.   But he's doing all right.

Q.   You found your groove in Game 3.   What was different? 
J.R. SMITH:   Just trying to be more aggressive, I think.   You know, playing on the road it's more trying to get good shots, but pressing a little bit too much.   So yesterday I just got in my flow.   I had the crowd behind me, so it helped.

Q.   It was a full team effort.   All role players, everyone stepped up.   Is that sustainable? 
J.R. SMITH:   Yeah, I think so.   We've got a good crew of guys trying to go outside their boundaries.   They know their boundaries very well.   We all know what we need to do to win this series.   So we're just putting it all together at the right time.   Fortunately we've got someone like Devin and Tristan to go to the limits of their talent, and they're doing that.

Q.   What's it mean to have a guy like Delly (indiscernible)?
J.R. SMITH:   I would think so.   It's been a close series.   I think the last game was the biggest stretch of scoring that we've had.   So I would think that they'd switch it up a little.   I hope they don't.

Q.   What's it going to take to get those next two wins? 
J.R. SMITH:   For one, we can't get too ahead of ourselves.   We have to take it one game at a time and come out and play in the defensive end.   Keep the defensive intensity up.   I think it was 5‑4 transition, so playing at the half-court offense, so just keep in touch. 
I know those guys had ‑‑ as everybody knows, Steph had an unbelievable fourth quarter.   But as long as we keep in touch, keep making other guys shoot the ball, we'll be all right.

Q.   They only had four fast‑break points.   How do you keep them out of transition and dictating the pace? 
J.R. SMITH:   Again, we're keeping all five guys back.   Our bigs are doing an unbelievable job protecting the three as well.   I think Mozy has been unbelievable.   We're crowding them as much as we can without losing them, so that helps.

Q.   How are you personally feeling with your own shot and your own game?   You had a little bit of a strong game, and it's like you really came back in Game 4. 
J.R. SMITH:   It's getting there.   It's getting there.   It's a process for me, as everybody knows.   Imagine you have to start shooting the ball higher and shoot them extremely flat.   A lot of my shots are short, so just keep shooting higher and you believe it's going to fall.

Q.   Is that just something you have to be conscious of knowing that you have to get it higher, or do you try not to think about it too much? 
J.R. SMITH:   No, I try not to think about it too much.   I do more of that in pregame, trying to shoot the ball higher and stuff like that.   So it's just repetition.   So I do more of that in my pregame work.

Q.   What's it like having a guy like Delly having this success, willing to sacrifice his body for loose balls? 
J.R. SMITH:   It means the world to me and our team.   The way he's been playing, it's unbelievable.   It's really a storybook story for him anyway.   For somebody who came from where he came from, a small school, pretty much underrated his whole life, to come out here on the big stage in our game and perform like he's doing, it's great.   Do it for him.

Q.   When you look at Delly and LeBron, it looks like they've got chemistry like they've played together for years.   Was that something that developed over the season, or did LeBron have any conversation with Delly during the season? 
J.R. SMITH:   I would say it developed over the season, but at the same time when you're playing with somebody like LeBron, all you need is somebody who plays extremely hard, and that's what Delly is doing.   He's one of the first ones in the gym and one of the last ones to leave every day.   The same shots he's making now are the same ones he works on every day.   His floaters, his threes, his pull‑ups.   He's a workaholic, so it's paying off for him.

Q.   Talk about guys having to stay within themselves.   How do you balance that with doing a little extra because you are missing (indiscernible)? 
J.R. SMITH:   Fortunately we don't have to worry about it too much.   We've got a pretty good guy in LeBron on our team.   So like I said, we just try to stay within ourselves and shoot shots that we normally shoot and play defense how we know we're capable of, and everything else will take care of itself. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT