NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 5, 2015
J.R. Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  J.R. SMITH:   It was competitive.   It was a great way to start the series in an overtime game.   Unfortunately, we lost, but both teams are playing (indiscernible).

Q.   You got shots early, and then you didn't see the ball for a while.   Did that get you off your rhythm? 
J.R. SMITH:   Yes and no.   I think, yeah, in the situation for The Finals you don't touch the ball for a certain period of time you kind of lose your rhythm.   But in the same respect, I've done it multiple times without touching the ball and then catch on fire.   So it could go either way.

Q.   After the layoff, was there a little bit of jitters?   Both teams looked a little tight when they came in.   Did you find that after not playing for almost a week? 
J.R. SMITH:   Yeah, we try not to do it with as much contact as possible.   Within those eight days we had enough guys banged up.   That's the last thing we want is to come in and somebody have a reoccurring injury or something like that in practice. 
So, I mean, yeah.   The jitters are finally out of the system hopefully for the guys, and just come out and be able to play.

Q.   Do you know anything about Kyrie? 
J.R. SMITH:   I haven't heard anything yet.   I heard he's going to get an MRI right now and we'll see.

Q.   If he's not healthy, how does that change your attitude going into the game? 
J.R. SMITH:   Oh, I mean, for me it really doesn't change anything because I'm just trying to be as aggressive as I can on the offensive end and take advantage of whatever mishaps on the defense. 
So for me, my mentality doesn't really change.   My job is still the same.   Just try to make do if he can't go.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
J.R. SMITH:   No, not really.   I think I can get enough good looks at the basket.   I've never really been the guy that the team runs plays for.   I just pretty much get it when I do and make whatever I've got happen.   So (indiscernible) doesn't really do much for me.

Q.   Is there a certain groove you get into when you're in the game and you're feeling it?   I know sometimes you're having more fun, let's say.   Have you felt that in the playoffs? 
J.R. SMITH:   Yeah, it was fun watching LeBron do what he does yesterday.   I was more excited for him than I think he was for himself.   I get excited, especially for my teammates.   Whenever a guy, like a guy like Dellavedova who was pretty much written off his whole life, pretty much, and then you come into the playoffs and have the playoffs he's having, and Tristan playing the way he has, you've got to get excited for those guys.   It's unbelievable.

Q.   People say you're like a streaky scorer.   Like you can catch fire and tear it up or have a game like last night.   Why do you think that's been the case? 
J.R. SMITH:   I mean, I just‑‑ I don't know.   I've been in situations where pretty much my whole career where we've got a marquee guy.   We go to him.   Everybody else eats off whatever is left, and that's the way it's been my whole career.   So some days you get more touches and better looks than others, and some days you don't.   So that's the way it is.

Q.   Can you just talk about the confidence of knowing you guys have played without Kyrie before? 
J.R. SMITH:   We've got guys that can step up, guys who have done well.   So hopefully their confidence is still where it was when Kyrie wasn't playing. 
At the end of the day this is a league where the next man has to step up and play.   Unfortunately, this is The Finals, so if you've got anything to prove, this is the place to do it.

Q.   Do you expect more touches if Kyrie can't play?   Like you said, it will be more of a focal point? 
J.R. SMITH:   Yeah, I wouldn't say just flat‑out plays (indiscernible) touches for sure.   Got to make the best decision with the ball.   Came up empty, and probably two or three shots I shouldn't have shot or tried to create something else for somebody else.   What really could have cost this game (indiscernible).   Just got to make sure I make the best decision with the ball.

Q.   Do you feel like you guys maybe took some shots early in the clock and you don't really want to do that again unless it's wide open? 
J.R. SMITH:   Yeah, absolutely.   I took one in transition when Kyrie pushes it back.   So I think the space closed out on the right corner over there.   So they're not the best defensive team, but they play pretty good defense.   But anybody, you drive and kick three or four times and eventually something's going to break down, so you can't shoot early.   Unless it's a wide‑open, flat‑out shot.   You've got to take those.   But other than that, you've got to make them work.

Q.   Is it tough because there's such a great tough shot made that there's no shot you think you can't make?   But then when you look at it, how do you decide, well, maybe I shouldn't have taken that?   Or you made so many of those things? 
J.R. SMITH:   I really decide.   If it goes in, it's like, oh, it's a great shot.   If you miss, it's like, damn, it's not a good shot.   So it's tit for tat. 
Between the one Iguodala block and the one stepback in the middle, I think it was the fourth quarter, there were two tough shots that I didn't really have to take and missed a lay‑up on Steph right here on a point‑blank lay‑up.   So I've just got to do better. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT