NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: NUGGETS v LAKERS
May 20, 2009
J.R. Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   J.R. SMITH: I mean, we played great. But unfortunately they've got a great closer. They did an unbelievable job under distress. And fortunately we've got to come back and do the same thing tomorrow.

 Q. How optimistic are you in playing tomorrow night?
 J.R. SMITH: I'm definitely going to play. No issues there, so I'm definitely going to play.

 Q. Is it worse? 
 J.R. SMITH: It's getting better. More of a calf strain than anything. It's getting better. I'm doing the right things. I'll be ready for tomorrow.

 Q. Will you be running at all today?
 J.R. SMITH: No, I did some running on the treadmill. But that's pretty much it.

 Q. Did it happen on that final free throw attempt?
 J.R. SMITH: Yeah.

 Q. You looked a little wobbly getting on the bus, is that a time change or...
 J.R. SMITH: A combination, because this is the first time I got up, really moved around. When I got to the bus, I mean, it was one of those things. 

 Q. Do you feel you'll be 100 percent by tomorrow? 
 J.R. SMITH: I don't know if I'll be 100 percent, but I'll be able to play.

 Q. Is it fair to say you have to get more scoring off the bench to win this series?
 J.R. SMITH: Definitely. Our bench has to be -- our bench has to play in order for us to win. I mean, we'll take it upon ourselves. A.C., all the guys, we'll do something spectacular.

 Q. Why do you think it took you so long to get going out there?
 J.R. SMITH: I mean, LA does a great job of denying me the ball and pretty much taking -- jump a lot. I really didn't take a lot of shots early on. Just do what I've been doing, getting a lot of shots up earlier, and just go from there.

 Q. How do you guys respond after the play yesterday?
 J.R. SMITH: I think we'll respond huge. I mean, in the last series, every game we lost, we came back and played huge. So I hope we come back and play unbelievable after this. We were beating them the whole game, but they got that closer. So it hurts. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT