NBA FINALS: CLEVELAND VS GOLDEN STATE
May 31, 2017
J.R. Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








How do you respond to the people that say you guys don't play any defense?
J.R. SMITH: I don't respond at all.  It is what it is.  (Indiscernible) this isn't about Cavs (indiscernible).  If we play the way we are supposed to play and play as hard as we are supposed to play, then we should be successful.
Q. I spoke with your mom and dad, and your mom says she doesn't get nervous before games, and then your dad called her out and said:  Yes, you do.  So break the tie.
J.R. SMITH: My mom does get nervous.  She gets very nervous.  She was here last game, Game 7 [in 2016].  And I could see her, and she was sweating, from where I was standing at.  So she definitely gets nervous.
Q. So your dad then followed up and says that he sends you text messages at halftime, they're all positive.  Is there any one that you can remember that stands out?
J.R. SMITH: No, generally they're normally the same.  He always tells me to keep shooting.  So no, not really.  He's so motivated and he's been in my life and around the game of basketball, as well, for me, so anything he says is -- I usually think it's inspirational.  And I just think back to when I was a kid and what he used to say and in talking to me, and I just focus on those things.  And if I do that, nine times out of 10, I'm successful.
Q. What is it like, Playoff stress, having a new baby?
J.R. SMITH: Having her home and going through everything we have went through, I really don't consider this stress.  This is as much fun and play as possible.  That's the stressful part, worrying about her as far as medical stuff.  So this stuff here, this is playtime.
Q. Are you getting up in the middle of the night changing diapers, and how does that schedule work for somebody that's in the middle of the Playoffs?
J.R. SMITH: I haven't changed a diaper yet.  Normally I try -- I got three kids now, so I don't -- the three of them, I probably changed about five diapers, so maybe six or seven.  It's kind of silly, but for the most part my wife handles that.  She gets up a lot in the middle of the night.  I think she gets that from her dad, being a night owl.  But she -- for whatever reason, once she starts laying on my chest and she hears my heartbeat, she goes right to sleep.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT