NHL ENTRY DRAFT
June 22, 1996
Lance Ward
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
I guess a little bit surprised, but I guess I am a pretty happy kid right now, and I guess you never know what happens in the draft and it was a pretty open field, I guess.  I guess they liked me, so here I am. 
 
A little bit surprised.  It was this early and I mean there is a lot of great players in the draft, but I mean -- so I haven't got their name called, so I mean there is a lot of great guys out there. 
 
They through me on and did a bunch of physical testing and a little interview with me.  I felt I did pretty good down there.  Obviously.  I did. 
 
It was about a month ago.  About a month ago out in Toronto, made us run on a treadmill and do some  other testing, and I guess they -- I guess I did pretty good at that, so... 
 
I don't know what, I guess.  I guess they take care of my -- I don't mind jumping in the offense, scoring a few goals throughout the year my physical play has increased a lot.  
 
He is not that big of a guy, but he takes the body hard and he is a great player.  
 
Rich Winter? 
 
He plays hockey all the time.  He played the university of football in Montana and but he coached me when I was younger and he has always helped me out and took me to the outdoor rinks and taught me how to shoot a puck, so I owe him a lot of thanks.  He is at home watching me on TV right now. 
 
Don't know anyone, but it should be fun. 
 
No, when I was really young, I guess, in  Pee Wee I turned to a defenseman, so I guess most of my life had been defenseman, I guess so... 
 
For sure, that is -- I mean, I think I fit right in in that style of play and hopefully somebody can step in and help them out. 
 
I guess it depends -- I am going to go to camp and do my best and I mean you got to go there with every intention of making the team.  You never know.  I am still pretty young.  Those guys are, I guess, old enough to be -- some of them are old enough to be my father, but I don't know, we will see.  Going to work hard this summer and try and get as strong as I can and go to camp and see what I can do. 
 
I guess I was hoping first round.  I guess you never know what was going to happen.  I mean, it is certainly nice going that high, but I mean, I haven't proven anything yet.  I have to go to camp and do my best and try my best just like the next guy. 
 
I don't know a whole bunch, but hopefully I will in a little while here. 
 
I think I need to improve on my agility  and get to short places in a short period of time, just continue to play physical, you can always work on getting stronger, and it is just getting stronger and tougher and a little mean, in other words, always helps out.  So... 
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT