MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 19, 2006
Rennae Stubbs
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 
 
 
Q.  You must have expected a tough night. 
 
SAMANTHA STOSUR:  Yeah, I mean, I knew it was gonna be a hard match against her.  She came off with some really good wins the end of last year, so I always knew it was gonna be a hard match and just gave it everything I had.  
 
Q.  Was that a step up tonight compared to last week in Perth? 
 
SAMANTHA STOSUR:  I don't know.  I think it was just a little bit different.  It was different playing here and, you know, she was a little bit higher ranked than any of the other girls I played in Perth.  But it was just a bit of a different feeling out there.  I think I still played pretty well and really just did everything that I could.  And in Perth I did the same thing and got three wins.  So, I mean, that was a good week for me.  But, you know, it's not like she's a bad player; she's a really tough opponent. 
 
Q.  Is it impossible not to think about the rankings at the moment, or do you put that to one side?
 
SAMANTHA STOSUR:  To be honest, I haven't really thought about it yet.  I don't really want to worry about it until after the Aussie Open.  See what happens there.  I know they're there, but you can't really control it.  You've got to go out and play the matches.  That's really all you can do. 
 
Q.  How are you feeling?  You had three tough matches over in Perth. 
 
SAMANTHA STOSUR:  No, I'm fine.  I had a couple of light days since I've come back from Perth.  The matches were hard over there, but I'm feeling great physically.  I was moving pretty well out there and I wish it went on for more games. 
 
Q.  How are you feeling going into Melbourne?
 
SAMANTHA STOSUR:  Really good.  I think I'm hitting the ball really well.  I think I can hopefully play even better.  It will be good to play the doubles here tomorrow.  Hopefully, we'll get a few matches there and keep the momentum going.  I'm just really looking forward to getting to Melbourne and getting another chance to get out there. 
 
Q.  The decision to play doubles, is it to get as many matches as you can in before a Grand Slam?
 
SAMANTHA STOSUR:  Yeah.  I think going into Grand Slams you want to play matches no matter what they are - singles or doubles.  And, yeah, pretty much I never really thought about not playing.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT