THORNBERRY CREEK LPGA CLASSIC
July 7, 2017
Casey Danielson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Tell us how you felt; obviously you wanted to make the cut.  That was the goal, but the experience overall, first LPGA event?  
CASEY DANIELSON: Yeah, I've had a great experience.  Everyone here has been so welcoming, and I'm just really glad to be a part of this inaugural event in Wisconsin.  It was super fun to have a lot of fans and a lot of family out there.  Just couldn't get my putter rolling, but I learned a lot, and I'm ready for next week.   
 Q.  What did you learn about your game in these conditions with this level of competition?  
CASEY DANIELSON: Yeah, I was really happy about how I hit the ball.  I think my ball-striking was very competitive this week, and I just couldn't get my putter to roll, and so I think that's going to be a focus of mine coming up this season and next week and all that.   
 Q.  How does getting this one under your belt give you confidence for next week?  
CASEY DANIELSON: Yeah, definitely I think the competition helps a lot, just staying fresh, and so I think that -- and also course management, like getting back on the course, feeling comfortable with picking lines, that sort of thing, will definitely help me heading into the Open.   
 Q.  Did you interact with a lot of the players, and what did you think overall, just playing alongside some of the people I'm sure you follow?  
CASEY DANIELSON: Yeah, well, it was a lot of fun to see some of my old friends from junior golf and from college golf.  I played with Bronte Law and I know her from UCLA, and we played her quite a bit in college.  So it was really fun to just be out here again with these players that their path has been a little different than mine, so it was just fun to see them and play alongside them and hear what they've had to say about what they've learned and their experiences, so they were very helpful.   
 Q.  What were you most impressed with about your game?  
CASEY DANIELSON: I think my ball-striking.  Off the tee I felt really solid, and even coming down the stretch.  It didn't really fall short.  I kept it through.  Especially yesterday, I hit it really well yesterday.   
 Q.  You're not really from this part of the state, but I think everyone kind of accepted you as the local girl; was that pretty cool this week to be known as one of the two Wisconsin girls in the field?  
CASEY DANIELSON: Yeah, oh, definitely.  I'd be walking from the green to the next tee and people would be like, oh, on Wisconsin, and that was just really fun that they know my name and they're supporting me.  It means a lot, and it's so much fun.   
 Q.  Have you thought much about next week and what you're getting yourself into?  
CASEY DANIELSON: No, I haven't.  I think I'm definitely going to need to make some putts next week, but I feel pretty good about how I'm hitting it, so I hope that if I can get the putter rolling that I'll be competitive and hopefully make a putt.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT