THORNBERRY CREEK LPGA CLASSIC
July 6, 2017
Casey Danielson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How did it feel?
CASEY DANIELSON: Good.  I was swinging it pretty well.  I just couldn't get the putter rolling for anything, but it was a lot of fun out there, a lot of excitement, and yeah, I'm just happy to be out there.
Q. Talk about your first tee shot, I watched you and then you walked back and there was kind of --
CASEY DANIELSON: Oh, yeah, definitely, always the first tee shot no matter what tournament I'm at, and I like to see a draw, and it sets up for a little fade off that first tee, so I was a little nervous about that, but I was able to stay down on it, and I hit a great shot, so I felt good about that.
Q. What do you have to do tomorrow to play on Saturday?
CASEY DANIELSON: I have to make some putts.  I've got to start -- I'm going to go practice a little bit, get it rolling, get it feeling a little bit better, but I'm hitting the ball just fine, and I think that if I can get a couple of putts to fall that I can be in the cut line for sure.
Q. It looks like it's going to be under par, so you know you're going to have to go under.  Does that put pressure on your round, so you've just got to play your game?
CASEY DANIELSON: No, coming from behind, I know that it's going to take a lot, so it kind of -- it always takes the pressure off because you're just out there having fun trying to make those birdies.
Q. Talk about the support you had out there.
CASEY DANIELSON: Yeah, it was a lot of fun.  I had a lot of my family out there and some friends from around where I live, so that was a lot of fun.  Them cheering me on, whether I was up or down, and my caddie was awesome, keeping me -- trying to keep me relaxed.  We just had a lot of fun.  Over every putt, he's like, just have fun.  So it was great.
Q. When you're on home soil, that can either work for you or against you; do you feel they calmed you?
CASEY DANIELSON: Yeah, I felt really comfortable out there, and I really enjoy this golf course.  I think it's a good test of golf, and good for course management.  You have to stay really focused and disciplined off the tee, where you're going to take your line and what kind of shot you're going to hit, what kind of club you're going to hit, and yeah, I just really embraced it, and it's fun to have some fans out here, and everyone says, "go Wisconsin," and that's just a lot of fun.
Q. What happened on 3?
CASEY DANIELSON: Ooh, yeah, my nerves got to me a little bit there.  I think they were kind of building up, and I just -- I hit a lot of putts, let's just say that.
Q. Was it five putts?
CASEY DANIELSON: Mm-hmm.
Q. Does that do something to you to be able to hit that and then come back and birdie?  Does that boost your confidence to say, I can recover?
CASEY DANIELSON: So I had a short putt.  I hit it to two, two and a half feet, and then I said to the scorer after, I'm like, well, I had a lot of practice on the hole before so I was bound to make one of them.  So I'm learning, and I think I'm going to learn a lot from that, and all I can do is improve.
Q. Was it speed on No. 3?
CASEY DANIELSON: Oh, no, it was short putts, a lot of short putts.  Just stroke, just a lot of nerves, a lot of hands.  I know what I've got to work on.  I'm hitting the ball really well.  I'm really happy with how I'm hitting it.
Q. It wasn't because you saw the Packers' logo on the lawn?
CASEY DANIELSON: No, that's all right.  I'll leave that there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT