THORNBERRY CREEK LPGA CLASSIC
July 5, 2017
Casey Danielson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We welcome Casey Danielson, the sponsor invite and Wisconsin native to the media center this afternoon.  Casey, you just graduated from Stanford, making your professional debut.  How are you feeling about that?  Are you excited?
CASEY DANIELSON: Yeah, it's something I've dreamed about my whole life, and so it's fun to finally be a professional, and there are a few times where I've said, oh, yeah, I'm turning pro and I'd backtrack like oh, my goodness, and it happened, and I'm just really excited to get started and get my career started, especially here in Wisconsin.
Q. How does it feel to be a part of this inaugural event at Thornberry Creek?
CASEY DANIELSON: It is incredible.  I've felt so welcome here.  Everybody has -- there have been fans and even some of the volunteers that have been really supportive and welcoming, and so I'm just excited to be here in my home state growing the game and also being part of an inaugural event is really exciting, as well.
THE MODERATOR: I think you got the chance to go on a tour of the reservation here and then also the pro-am party at Lambeau Field last night.  Can you tell us about those experiences and how that was.
CASEY DANIELSON: Yeah, I'm really glad that I went on the tour of the Oneida reservation.  It's really great to see where you are and who you are interacting with and what you're a part of, and seeing the reservation and talking to some of the tour guides, it was just a really great experience, and to see the reservation and to get a feel of the people, and they were so welcoming and so excited to have us, and I think it's great for women's golf to be here to showcase our talents but also to be able to interact with the Oneida culture.  It's just been incredible.  I think it's a great sharing of cultures.
Q. And then the pro-am party at Lambeau.  Are you a Packers fan?
CASEY DANIELSON: No, actually I grew up a Vikings fan.  We lived about an hour from the Vikings stadium, but it's a huge rivalry at my high school, who's a Packer fan, who's a Vikings fan, but it was great to go to Lambeau Field.  That was so fun.  I also got to watch fireworks from the top of the stadium, which was really fun.
Q. What are the expectations this week?
CASEY DANIELSON: No I'm just looking to learn.  I know I've got a lot to learn, both about how to handle myself on Tour, how to manage the media and manage getting around the clubhouse and practice rounds, that sort of thing, and then also on the golf course I want to learn how my game can improve and what area of my game don't match up to other players and try to see where I can get the most use out of my practice.
And so that's my main focus is to learn.  And then also, I just want to have fun out there and hopefully give it a run.  I feel pretty good about where my game is at, so see where I shake out, and I'm kind of starting at the bottom, so just anywhere from here is great.
Q. How much have you bounced stuff off your brother Charlie and how much has he helped you as you embark on your professional career?
CASEY DANIELSON: Yeah, my brother Charlie, he's been a great support.  He texts me a lot.  He's very encouraging.  And he's also helped me get started about who to talk to and how to kind of manage the professional game, when to have practice rounds, that sort of thing, and so I'm just really glad that I have him and that he's gone through this process before so I get some great advice.
Q. What advice would you give to younger girls that are interested in being a pro golfer?
CASEY DANIELSON: Ooh, that's a good question.  I would say to just keep improving, set small goals, and try and achieve them as they go, and then those bigger goals will come.  Golf is a very challenging sport, and you kind of have to take it day by day because every day is different, and so if you kind of just keep your head down and keep working hard and setting small goals I think is at least what gives me confidence.  But then just keep working at it even if you don't achieve them because it'll come in time.  But it'll definitely a long, long process of getting better, and you can always improve.
Q. Are there any specific golfers that you've looked up to now on your way working up to pro status?  Any mentors that you've had in this game?
CASEY DANIELSON: Yeah, I've been actually fortunate enough to be friends with a lot of the players out here.  I grew up playing golf with Alison Lee and Karen Chung, so it's fun to -- and Jaye Marie, and it's fun to be out here with them now and catch up.  It almost feels like we're kind of back where we were five years ago in junior golf.  So I would say I've looked up to them, my friends that have been able to make it, their paths a little bit earlier than mine, and so it's been fun to see them and really get to cheer for them because they've been doing so great.  I know that they're good players and really fun to be around.
Q. Can you talk about your relationship with Condoleezza Rice, how she's mentored you, how that started and how she's helped you on and off the course?
CASEY DANIELSON: Yeah, so Dr. Rice, she is a big supporter of the women's golf program at Stanford, so I got to know her through the golf program.  She practices sometimes with us.  She's taken us to play some great courses.  And then as I got to know her, I was also deciding my major, and I decided to major in public policy, which is part of her department.  She also works for international relations and a bit of economics.
So I had the opportunity to ask her to be my major advisor, and she said yes, so I had a chance to know her academically, as well.  So I met with her about once a quarter to chat about my schedule and where I should go academically and get some great advice from her.  So that was fun to kind of know her on both sides of the spectrum.  She is an incredible person.  She's been so great to me and the team and so supportive, so I've been fortunate enough to get to know her.
Q. Speaking of Stanford, your teammate Mariah Stackhouse is out here this week.  Have you had a chance to catch up with her?
CASEY DANIELSON: Yeah, I did.  I saw her briefly yesterday just as we were passing by to say hi.  But I'm sure I'll see her out here again this week.  I'd really like to catch up with her.  It's been a while, so it's so fun to see her and chat with her, and I'm so proud of her for being out here and for doing this.  She's definitely been an inspiration.
Q. Can you talk a little bit about the experience this morning golfing with some of the amateurs out there today?
CASEY DANIELSON: Yeah.  Playing in a pro-am is so much fun.  You get to kind of relax but also see the golf course.  So yeah, it was a lot of fun, and I really enjoy this golf course.  It was fun to walk it again, and I played with Ms. Janis, and she's been such a great part of this event and so personal, so it was fun to catch up with her, and she's got a great swing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT