MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 13, 2019
Eddie Pepperell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. What was your reaction when you saw that you were playing with Jeff this morning?   
EDDIE PEPPERELL: I wasn't sure I was playing with him until I saw him on the range hitting balls, actually. And then I saw him swinging it and I thought I'm in trouble. Yeah, he has a really nice swing, I mean the course is probably a little too long for him at this point, but man he's a good player and his short game was brilliant. And he was nice, really good to play with, actually, so dare I say it, he's the friendliest professional that I ever played with.  
   
 Q. Did you get the better of him?  
EDDIE PEPPERELL: I did, I did beat him, so you can actually report that. I don't want you to miss that. Going around I did beat him. Which makes me better than Rory McIlroy, apparently.  
   
 Q. When you play well obviously you're concentrating on your own game are you learning anything from Jeff given his experience around here?  
EDDIE PEPPERELL: Probably not. I mean this course, even though it is my first time, it's pretty obvious where you don't want to go, so it's easy to say local knowledge plays a part, but I mean you would have to be either entirely stupid or terrible to hit it in some of the spots you don't want to be around here. So it could be the former, I don't know. But, no, it was good company and it was good to watch.  
   
 Q. How have you enjoyed the Masters debut experience overall?  
EDDIE PEPPERELL: It's been good, yeah, I mean I've been a little frustrated with the way I've played, I struggled for momentum out there and at times just not really had a whole lot going on, it's been very difficult to kind of get the adrenaline flowing when I haven't been making any putts and keep hitting in the water on 13, I might as well do it tomorrow, so why not four times in a row for a laugh. But, yeah, it's been good, it's been really good, I've enjoyed it.   
   
 Q. Have you been looking at the Masters tracking app?  
EDDIE PEPPERELL: Yeah, it's amazing app, yeah.   
   
 Q. Were you aware of having a camera on you at all times for every shot?  
EDDIE PEPPERELL: No, not really. No. It's quite nice, really, yeah, I mean when you first out in the morning at least you feel like there's something on it still, there's some form of interest and it's quite nice.   
   
 Q. Is it a little strange to see a guy scooping putts in this sort of setting?  
EDDIE PEPPERELL: Yeah, well I gave him a putt on 15 from five feet right‑to‑left downhill I said pick it up Jeff and he refused to take it and then he missed it and he said, I should have taken it. I was pretty generous, I wanted to be really generous just in case he did beat me and he then I would have an excuse. But, no, he, yeah, I wish I could have picked a few up.   
   
 Q. Any particular highlights or anything that surprised you at all this week from your first time?  
EDDIE PEPPERELL: Not from me, no. No. I've been, I've probably been partly boring. Not that I can think of other than the Fred Couples thing on the range, which was nice. The Par‑3 was fun. Playing with Matt having his hole‑in‑one, losing some money to him. Yeah, it's just ‑‑ and having the family over, really, and, yeah, they have been annoying, but you know at least to have them with me and for them to enjoy it all, it's kind of nice.   
   
 Q. You said you didn't know it was going to be Jeff but you knew there was going to be a marker with you?  
EDDIE PEPPERELL: Yeah. Yeah, I heard it was going to be someone, so that, you know, it's quite nice, I always thought I would just go out on my own and get it over with in two hours but it is nice to have company actually, and especially someone like Jeff because there's no pressure on him, obviously he's, you can talk as much or as little as you like and I like to talk on the course, so he's perfect.   
   
 Q. Random question, but what's the longest weather delay you had to wait out and how do you like to pass the time in those situations?  
EDDIE PEPPERELL: I was probably on the runway with British Airways. I honestly don't know. I honestly don't know. Does that mean there's bad stuff coming tomorrow?   
   
 Q. Possibly.   
EDDIE PEPPERELL: Right.  
   
 Q. You may go early off two tees, we don't know yet.   
EDDIE PEPPERELL: Yeah, okay.  
   
 Q. What do you think Jeff shot?  
EDDIE PEPPERELL: I know he shot 2‑over. Yeah.   
   
 Q. And were you guys playing holes or by stroke?  
EDDIE PEPPERELL: It would be stroke play, I guess, yeah, stroke play, yeah.   
   
 Q. (No Microphone.)  
EDDIE PEPPERELL: It does in a way and it doesn't in a way, I mean I like piece and quiet, so I'm kind of looking forward to getting home and while I love playing out here, I like all the majors, they're really all a lot of fun, I always feel ready to get home and turnoff a bit. So, yeah, I mean, it's cool. There's something about the course I do think suits me, I think it favors a really strong iron player and my irons are pretty good, but I would need to improve my putting a lot and get much more comfortable on just, frankly not comfortable just better, the big swinging 8‑footers or 12 footers and putts like that. The guys, when I watch Tiger and Phil and these guys and Jordan, they're just phenomenal, they have got great feel on the greens and it just seems to be not in my hands at the moment.  
   
 Q. Do you have any flashbacks to your dreams out there?  
EDDIE PEPPERELL: No, I didn't, actually, in my dreams I didn't keep hitting it in the water on 13, but, you know, yeah, nightmare to be honest, I suppose.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT