SKY SPORTS BRITISH MASTERS
October 12, 2018
Eddie Pepperell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Under par today is mighty good scoring in these conditions, isn't it?  
EDDIE PEPPERELL: Yeah, it is.  It's so windy.  I mean, yeah, I didn't play very well for the first 12 holes and I was still 3-under par.  My putting and my short game was fantastic, and then I actually felt like I hit it very well on the last six.  Maybe could have been a couple better on the greens.  No, it was tough out there for sure, and I'm happy.  Obviously very happy with that score.   
 Q.  Can you give us an idea of just how tough it is in various spots out there?  
EDDIE PEPPERELL: Yeah, so when we started on 10, you have pretty much most of the back nine coming with you, a few crosswinds on that, but mostly with you, and then you turn and hit the 1st and you know you've got four holes just straight into the wind, and they're playing long.  I mean, the course setup I would say was good for the conditions.  The Tour have clearly done a good job there.  And they slowed the greens up.  I think they had to because they would have been unplayable with the greens as fast as they were yesterday.   
I mean, obviously it's a good three-club wind, a good two-, three-club wind for sure.   
 Q.  How pleased are you to be in this position at this stage of a home event?  
EDDIE PEPPERELL: It's a great spot.  I felt very comfortable.  I feel like -- frankly I feel like I'm not hitting the ball that well, really.  I feel like there's a lot more for me in terms of that department.  Clearly I've putted well, and I've thought my short game has been good, and I've hung in there in tough conditions over 36 holes.  I'm hoping to spend a little bit of time on the range, and I'm hoping this weekend for my swing to feel a little more comfortable, and then I can play some shots and take even more to the golf course because I'm pretty happy with where the rest of the game is at.   
I'm in a good spot.  I'm going to keep pushing.  There's nothing else I can do.   
 Q.  There's a lot to play for, given where you are in the World Rankings, right on the cusp of that top 50.  A big week at any stage this time of the year is massive in the context of next year, isn't it?  
EDDIE PEPPERELL: Yeah, it is.  It was unfortunate for me with the way the World Ranking system works, there's not a lot of points coming off for the next six, seven months because of the way I played at this point two years ago onwards for a period.  I'm in a great position now.  If I chuck a few good results at it, I'm not putting a limit on where I might end the year up at.  I'm not really trying to think of any of that stuff, although that's reminded me I need to put that on my mind.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  How good was that given the conditions?  
EDDIE PEPPERELL: Pretty good I would say.  It was pretty chilly this morning when I got to the 10th tee.  Yeah, I was kind of relieved to get my score in a decent spot early on in the round because I didn't feel like I was playing very well, at least in my mind I was giving myself a couple of shots back once I turned the corner at 1 because I knew that was going to be very, very difficult.   
 Q.  How good was your short game today because when you were leaving yourself four, five feet for par you were holing out really well.  
EDDIE PEPPERELL: Yeah, short game and putting has been very good.  It's felt good for quite a while, to be fair.  My putting -- I didn't putt well last week.  I never do on slowish greens.  So to come here and (indiscernible) to come on Wednesday, but certainly in terms of holing out, I find that the greens (indiscernible) focus a little more.  Yeah, certainly if I do that for two more days, I'm pretty confident.   
 Q.  In and around the greens, as well, you holed out for (indiscernible) great shot on the 5th, so everything seems to be going pretty well short game wise?  
EDDIE PEPPERELL: Definitely.  I mean, yeah.  Short game is -- as I said, it's very good.  The one I really want to improve is I haven't felt that comfortable with my swing.  So that's quite unusual because normally my good results for the last year and a half have come from actually hitting it very, very well and (indiscernible) out there on the greens, so pretty much (indiscernible) first two days, so I don't know whether that gives me concern or confidence.  If I can find (indiscernible) try and take that out there this weekend.   
 Q.  You should be in the final group; how much are you looking forward to that tomorrow?  
EDDIE PEPPERELL: It'll be good.  Got myself aligned hopefully, which is really nice after this morning, and yeah, it's going to be a great weekend to look forward to.  Great course, great crowd.  I'm excited.   
 Q.  Can you give us a little insight into your mindset when you're out there when you're in contention at a golf tournament?  What's your inner voice telling you?  
EDDIE PEPPERELL: Really focus on the process of each shot, the routine on each shot and just commit, commit to the swing feelings that I've had going on.  It's a trust game, you know.  It's a game of trust when you're out there, especially in conditions like this.  I'm not playing with very much fear out there, which is good.  I've certainly played with a lot of fear in the past, but it doesn't seem to be happening to me of late, which is a good sign.  I just think in this case if my skill set isn't good enough, then I've putted pretty good, but I'm really just trying to make sure I trust all my thinking.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT