SKY SPORTS BRITISH MASTERS
October 11, 2018
Eddie Pepperell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Your first hole-in-one on the European Tour?
EDDIE PEPPERELL: Yeah, it was a nice shot, really.  Funny I missed the putt on the hole before and felt, there's a tough par-3 coming up and then I go and make a hole-in-one.  Funny game.  It was obviously bizarre.  From where I was standing it looked like it pitched in the hole, jumped up, looked like it was going long because of the height it came out, and then from there just went in.  Yeah, very nice.
Q. The stats team have told us that was your 2,043 par-3 on the European Tour.  What do you think of that?
EDDIE PEPPERELL: I mean, I don't know what I think of that.  Yeah, I don't know what I think of that, really.
Q. Nice prize, raising money for charity in the process?
EDDIE PEPPERELL: Yeah, perfect.  I'd rather have a car, but there you go.  No, no, it's ideal.  The whole lot will go to charity, and yeah, it's good.
Q. You birdied 7, hit a great one in at 8, hole it at the 9th, birdie the 10th, eagle at 11.  Talk us through that stretch.
EDDIE PEPPERELL: Yeah, I just got it going, I guess.  I mean, I played awful in the pro-am yesterday, probably the worst I've played for a good while, so I was out there a bit on the range trying to figure some stuff out, and I wouldn't say I played great today, I just had that really hot fun, and obviously two eagles, that helped my score.
I suppose it's just one of those bizarre days, totally bizarre.  I saw Grant Forrest made three eagles on the Challenge Tour today, so one short of him.
Q. Nice to close out with a birdie, as well, 5-under?
EDDIE PEPPERELL: Yeah, I think if I'd have finished 4, it might have been a little disappointing, but 5, yeah, it's good.  It's right there, in not easy conditions, and they're not meant to be getting much easier over the next couple days.  It's nice to see Matt and myself and Tommy at the top really.
Q. It was kind of just sort of going along, your round, and then all of a sudden it came to life on the 9th hole, didn't it?
EDDIE PEPPERELL: Just bolted into life, yeah.  It's amazing, first hole-in-one on Tour.  I've seen other guys make them every other week and always thought, oh, I feel like I hit good iron shots but have never made one.  The way it went in, as well, was great, with all the people there.  It was pretty nice.
Q. It looked like it was auditioning for Strictly Come Dancing the way it was bouncing around the hole before it disappeared in.
EDDIE PEPPERELL: Yeah, I'm trying to think of a joke about Strictly Come Dancing, but they're eluding me.  Yeah, kissed the hole twice.
Q. And then disappointed, but that really sort of kick-started you and you played that sequence of three holes in 5-under par.
EDDIE PEPPERELL: Yeah, it was bizarre.  I was hanging in there for the first six or seven, they were playing really hard.  I felt like I did a good job, the putting was nice, and then, yeah, all of a sudden three or four really good shots in a row, bang, 6-under through 11.  It took me a bit by surprise because as I just mentioned, yesterday wasn't my best performance in a pro-am.  Not like I've had many good ones in pro-ams, but yeah, it wasn't very good, and yeah, I was a little unsure today, so nicely surprised.
Q. You've given yourself obviously an excellent platform for the rest of this week.  What do you want to get out of obviously this week and this portion of what has now turned into a really successful season for you?
EDDIE PEPPERELL: I guess I just want to -- I just want to keep doing what I've been doing.  It's as simple as that.  It would be quite easy for me to get a little carried away with what's at stake, I guess, in some ways.  But the good thing with me it seems is that if I have a bad day I'm not really angry with that.  I'm finding a way of staying in the present, which is what matters right now, and if I keep focusing on just the right things in my game, which I feel like I'm doing by and large, then keep my scoring average good and I'm going to have a chance to win golf tournaments at the end of the year, and I know good things will come even if I do or don't.  Yeah, boring answer I'm afraid, but there you go.
Q. How is your accommodation this week?  I drive past it every night, and it looks pretty swish.
EDDIE PEPPERELL: It's very nice, yeah.  It's what I've been looking forward to all year really.  Yeah, it's great.
Q. Have you been enjoying the wine, as well, or just taking it easy this week?
EDDIE PEPPERELL: Yeah, I had a couple weeks off, so I had a couple glasses the last three nights, and yeah, seems to have done the trick today, I guess.  No, it's great.  Lovely place, good food, and it helps when the accommodation is like that on Tour.  We just spend so much time in hotels that it's nice to spend time in the good ones.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT