THE 147TH OPEN
July 20, 2018
Eddie Pepperell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Eddie, pleased with that?  
EDDIE PEPPERELL: Yeah, pleased enough.  Good to be in.  You don't think about the cut, but I guess that's the first thought you've got to overcome.  Good to be through the weekend, and generally speaking, I tend to play better at the weekend.  But I'm happy enough.   
 Q.  What were you particularly happy about today compared to the first round?  
EDDIE PEPPERELL: I was less hungry.  I don't know.  It was wet early on, and it felt quite tough.  It was quite long.  Then the rain came.  The rain went away, and it played quite scorable.  I just wasn't hitting the ball well enough.  I was getting quite frustrated, and then I made an important eagle on 14 and it really seemed to turn it for me.  I actually hit a lot of good shots going in.   
I wouldn't say I played much better than yesterday.  It was pretty much the same, but good enough to be kind of hanging around.   
 Q.  You mentioned about being hungry.  Were you fasting before the first round?  
EDDIE PEPPERELL: No, I just don't eat much for breakfast.  Being up at 7:00, not much chance of eating before that.   
 Q.  So is that a regular thing that you don't necessarily have a great deal before you go out?  It's a long day when you're playing four hours or so.  
EDDIE PEPPERELL: It is when I play in the morning time because I'm not very hungry.  I hate trying to get food down me.  I just eat while I'm going on the course and as I feel like going, and then I come in.  Plus with the adrenaline, I feel like it masks the hunger a little bit.  So yeah.   
 Q.  They call Saturday moving day.  Is that how you see it?  
EDDIE PEPPERELL: Hopefully.  I mean, it's certainly an opportunity.  No one is really running away.  I think forecast conditions are pretty tricky as well.  I think within five, six, seven, eight shots now, and there's a good opportunity for me to go out and post a good Saturday score.  If you're within touching distance on Saturday given the forecast conditions with the wind, then it's anybody's really.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT