ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 15, 2018
Eddie Pepperell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Eddie, a fabulous round of 64 for a total of 16 under.  Right now it doesn't look like it's going to be enough.  Just give us your thoughts.
EDDIE PEPPERELL: Well, the only consolation is looks like 18-under wouldn't have been enough, and that was -- while I maybe could have beaten that, but that would have been some round of golf.  Looks like Brandon is, yeah, having one of those rounds.  Yeah.  At this point obviously 17 was -- well, yeah, I don't know what to say about that.  But on the whole, I hit the ball great.  I felt I did everything good today.  Just what can I say really?  Just obviously fell a bit short, but there's certainly a lot more positives than negatives.
Q. I was going to say, there must be positives because since Qatar you haven't had a lot of ^ great results and this week you must feel you made a huge step forward.
EDDIE PEPPERELL: Yeah.  I mean I think it's probably going be to the first week where I don't lose about six shots on the putting green over the course of a week.  That has been my achilles heel for a year.  By and large I've hit the ball very well, particularly with my irons.  So I've felt for a long time that there were certainly potential scores for me, and there's been weeks where I've done it and most where I haven't.  But this week, yeah, Michael Bannon I went and saw him on the way up on Monday, had a nice long journey to Liverpool, and that made a difference.  So the rabbit is on me now.
Q. Not confirmed yet, but it seems extremely likely you'll earn a place in the Open Championship.  Just how excited are you about that?
EDDIE PEPPERELL: Well, it saves me doing five life, especially off for two days.  So, you know, I was actually looking forward -- I was going to be there whatever happened.  So I guess to be there playing is going to be nice.  And yeah, I'm going to drive home tonight.  I'm probably going to fly up Tuesday and then I'll send the caddy out and he can tell me where to hit it and I'll try and do that.
Q. After a disappointing day yesterday, how nice was it to come out and get a fast start and do what you could really on the final day to keep that pressure on?
EDDIE PEPPERELL: It was really nice.  Yesterday was frustrating because I don't feel like I played very well in the wind this year.  It was windy yesterday, and yeah, I just didn't really have it going from really having it in terms of playing Thursday, Friday tee to green, and seemed to rediscover it this morning on the range and kind of took out the course real nice.  Well, didn't hit many bad shots really today, and obviously disappointing three-putt on 17, but yeah, it was a good round.
Q. Obviously you can't legislate this at the moment.  He's 10-under par for a final round, which if Brandon wins, it's a hell of a way to win it, but how nice is it to feel that the form is back going in the right direction now and potentially place in the Open Championship?
EDDIE PEPPERELL: Yeah, I mean -- yeah, it's nice.  Form is one of those things that I don't control.  Consider trying to work out mental balance to your game obviously.  Hey, it's especially nice for Brandon.  I believe a pretty influential guy from South Africa passed away this week, and I'm sure that's on his mind, and he's doing a good job of, you know, making sure that there's a South African victory this week, and all credit to Brandon.  So yeah.
Q. I know you said you'd be at the Open anyway because you were doing some commentary.  Looks like that might have to be on hold now because you might actually have the clubs out next week.
EDDIE PEPPERELL: Yeah, well, maybe if they want me to do the Ryder Cup, then I'll consider that.  And then if I make that team, well, I don't know what I'll promise after that.  Maybe the diving or ^ something.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT