ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 13, 2018
Eddie Pepperell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Would have been nice to see that putt drop on 18 but doesn't take away from what was a great round of golf from you today?
EDDIE PEPPERELL: Yeah, it was disappointing to wait about 20 minutes, thanks to Paul, but he can buy me a pint of Guinness at some point down the road.
Yeah, you know, good round all in all.  I felt, other than that last putt, which I think was probably more of a miss-read, I felt like I hit a lot of good putts from that range, and off the back of yesterday and the back of my play late, it was comforting because I haven't been doing enough of that.  The ball-striking was spot on and generally it was an enjoyable round of golf.
Q. Great first start, as well, birdie, eagle and nice and set the tone?
EDDIE PEPPERELL: It made me think straightaway, having missed the last couple of cuts by a shot and really messing up the last to do that, just to get that way from the cut, as opposed to the other way, it eased a bit of pressure, actually, if I'm being honest.  Then I felt like I could really free up and let it happen because I've been swinging it really well in practise this week.  You know, the only thing that was going to hold me back was sort of feel or nerves, which didn't come to fruition.
Q. You played well the last time this event was here in 2015.  How much have you been able to draw from this experience to take into this week?
EDDIE PEPPERELL: The two similarities is that I haven't played a practise round, and stayed in Edinburgh both times.  That seems to be the secret for me in Gullane, just go out and have nice meals in Edinburgh and drink a bit of wine and come up here and play for four hours.  Seems to be working.  Hopefully it works for two more days.
Q. Your thoughts on an Open Championship spot?
EDDIE PEPPERELL: Well, I'm actually going to be commentating if I don't play for BBC for a couple of days.  I'm going to be there in whichever capacity.  Obviously I'd rather be playing but we'll just wait and see.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT