PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 20, 2016
Eddie Pepperell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Very well played, we know you struggled with those six missed cuts, a great week at The Grove, how much fun was that today?  
EDDIE PEPPERELL: It was a lot of fun, especially around the turn, started making birdies and Jamie said to me on 10, believe it or not, eight birdies and an eagle on the back nine -- at one point that was a possibility. I got into a groove. I was struggling early on with my swing a little bit but I knew the way I had been hitting it in practice that if I just found one thing, good stuff would come and it did. So I'm really pleased with that round. That's probably for nine holes there on that back side, that's as good as I've played for awhile, so that's nice.   
 Q.  The tee shot on 16, how good did that look in the air?  
EDDIE PEPPERELL: Certainly when we saw it bounced and it started rolling, we thought it had a chance. I've come close a few times the last couple of weeks for a hole-in-one to drop, but if it doesn't, it doesn't.   
 Q.  How much relief do you feel after turning that corner, you've been working very hard but to have made big inroads last week and this week. Is there a bit of relief there?  
EDDIE PEPPERELL: There's relief just to be playing decent golf and actually enjoying it. I've been very frustrated with the game because I've been playing so poorly and I think any of us out here would tell you that -- I didn't realize just how much of an effect playing poorly would have on my mood, not just on the golf course, but at home, as well.   
I felt like for my quality of life to improve, I had to turn it around on the course. Last week was a tougher week than this week could pan out to be, depending how tomorrow turns out obviously. Last week was difficult, even on Friday when I still felt pretty nervous and anxious because I knew I had not made a cut for awhile and knew I had to make it happen. But I'm certainly enjoying hitting the ball decent again.   
 Q.  We talked to you earlier this week, we know the situation you're in, we know a lot of you guys around the bubble are facing, and you seem unbelievably relaxed. What has been the message to yourself to manage the emotions and manage the situation?  
EDDIE PEPPERELL: Yeah, I've had to kind of tell myself, what's the worst that can happen. If I miss the cut this week and bad things happen -- but I feel like it wouldn't be a career-defining moment for me whether I lost my card or keep my card. And actually for me it's getting in the frame of mind, the way I feel like I'm swinging it, I want to go out and win this golf tournament. I want to get to Dubai. I've played those events the last two years, and so that's got to be my focus the way I'm playing. If I play well enough, I feel like I give myself a shot at winning and that's all I can do, whether I'm 120 on the list or ten, I feel like if I play well, I can win. Just got to make that happen.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT