ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 8, 2016
Eddie Pepperell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Thoughts on your position on this leaderboard?
EDDIE PEPPERELL: Obviously I'm pleased.  I didn't play half as well as I've played the last two days for the most part this season, so pleased to find myself in with a shout over the weekend.  Yeah, pretty pleased generally with the whole thing.
Q. What is it you've done over these two days that have differed from other weeks?
EDDIE PEPPERELL: Well, I've driven the ball better.  I changed coach three, four weeks ago and we've been working hard on that.  My driving had to get better.  I feel like for a while, since I've been out here, it's been the main thing that's held me back from winning and felt I needed to address it, especially this year as it just got uncontrollably bad.  Driving has improve and keep the ball in play; I've put it in play on every hole for the first two days, and generally when I do that, then I score fairly well, what I would consider my strength.  Pleased with that side of things.
I've seen a guy in America, not met him much, just doing it online.  Quite a change from the way I've been doing it the last few years.  There's been a couple of pretty fundamental things that I've done poorly if I'm honest.  There's been a lot of things I've done well over the last few years but there's a couple of really standout issues that I've had to address and I'm addressing.
So not perfect, but the good thing is, I can see where I'm going and I can feel like I'm improving and there's a process to it, and I feel like I'm the kind of guy that needs that.
Q. There's a lovely story about you helping out with the youngsters.  Fill us in.
EDDIE PEPPERELL: I decided to give my sponsorship money back to Frilford Health.  They helped me when I needed it when I turned pro and had no money, so I thought it was the least I could do.  They have been great.  So I thought I would give it back and try and use it in a way or an initiative that would help kids get into the game.
So all the sponsorship money has gone back into the memberships, and a junior open we're going to do that I'm going to support more this year and make it a great day for kids to get involved.  It's great to have 50 new memberships go out.  I met the kids a few months ago when they enrolled, if you like.  I've had a few parents come up to me saying they are enjoying it.  If 30 or 40 of them go through to join the club full-time and take up golf as a living, or even part-time, I feel like I've contributed to the game.
It's a nice feeling for me.  It's not really about that but it's about kids playing the game the way I did when I was younger.
Q. And it's a huge number; and obviously they have never lifted a club before.
EDDIE PEPPERELL: There's a whole range of kids that have never played golf.  We weren't expecting 50, but fortunately the money covered that and that's great there's 50 new juniors playing golf.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT