THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2015
Eddie Pepperell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. A bit disappointing in the end.  Tell us how you're feeling.EDDIE PEPPERELL: Yeah, I suppose I'm disappointed.  Obviously I would rather have had a better day than I did today.  You know, I'd have to fault the front nine, really.  The back nine, I mean, I missed a few putts.  I will say I three-putted a couple of times when I could have made good pars, but it was ridiculous.  It was so tough.  We were hitting driver, 2-iron into every hole.  I didn't play that bad coming in.  It's just one of those things.  I think all the guys in the afternoon are going to experience some pretty tough shots coming in. You know, the mistake I take was not playing well enough going out and made a couple of bad decisions and not getting under par early enough, I think.Q. Are you pleased you put yourself in contention?EDDIE PEPPERELL: Well, yeah.  I'd have rather done that than not, but I would have rather teed off at 8:00 this morning and shot a 66 because I know I would have finished a little higher than I did when I did play.  That's golf, and it was a good experience nonetheless, and I look forward to coming back in the future.Q. How would you describe your experience, achieve what you wanted to achieve?EDDIE PEPPERELL: It didn't feel too different to the Irish Open, the Scottish Open.  This is obviously a bit grander, but I'm pretty focused on trying to play good golf.  When you're out there, you don't actually take it in too much.  Yeah, you know, it was obviously disappointing today, coming up the last in the position that I was in.  But I always enjoy playing St. Andrews, so it was a pleasure.Q. (Inaudible.)EDDIE PEPPERELL: Some time off, which I need, and I think the U.S. PGA in about three weeks, which will be nice to play.  But I think that's all I'm going to play in the next six weeks, so I'm looking forward to that.  I've had four weeks on the trot.  I've had that a few times this year, and I'm looking forward to a few weeks off, I think.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT