THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2015
Eddie Pepperell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How are you feeling after that 66?EDDIE PEPPERELL: I feel pretty good.  Yeah, I mean, obviously to finish double bogey-par is disappointing, I suppose, around this golf course, but ultimately my swing was in -- I didn't hit the right shot off the 17th tee, and that's a problem with my swing, quite frankly.  I need to go and work on that this afternoon and make sure I can stand up on that tee tomorrow and feel confident again to hit the right shot.  But all in all, if somebody would have said you take 66 and be in this position after three days, I probably would have taken it.Q. (Inaudible.)EDDIE PEPPERELL: They're fine, actually.  You know, yeah, it's hard to say right now, I suppose, but yeah, I didn't feel like I'm away with the fairies at all right now.  Yeah, I'm pretty into what I'm trying to achieve, I think, and that's all you can do on a tournament day, a tournament week.  I guess I'll have time to reflect come tomorrow, but there's a long time between now and then, and a lot of things can happen between now and then, so the helium might pop, you never know.Q. What do you put 17 down to, just one bad swing?EDDIE PEPPERELL: Well, yeah, and actually I hit the tee shot very similar off the 6th tee today and the reason I didn't hit driver off 12 was because the wind was off the left and if I make a bad swing there it's going to lead to trouble.  But you can't not hit driver off 17, really.  Yeah, I don't feel like I'm actually swinging the club very good.  Today I hit a lot of good iron shots, which was nice, but my putter was very good early on.  I have to be able to say that I don't think I'm swinging the club as well as I can or as well as I have done in the past.  How can I put it?  It didn't come as a huge surprise.  Unfortunately that tee shot off 17, unfortunately it came at the wrong time for me and I've got to try and improve my swing to make sure I don't do that in the future.  I probably put that kind of tee shot down to why maybe I haven't won in the past.  I've got to keep moving forward to try and improve.  But at the same time I've done a lot of very good things today and I've been doing a lot of good things this year.  I'm kind of happy and also philosophical moving forward, I suppose.Q. Have you looked at the leaderboard?EDDIE PEPPERELL: No, I hadn't, and obviously I knew I was in a good position, but I wasn't at all focused, I didn't care where I was at on the leaderboard.  I felt really confident coming off 16.  Holing that putt was a really good putt to hole for me, and maybe that tee shot was down to a little bit of complacency, not focusing on the right thing in my routine.  But this is golf, and we all know how tough it is, into wind off the left on 17, it doesn't get much tougher than that, and I didn't quite master it today.Q. You were in the lead of The Open --EDDIE PEPPERELL: Was I?  Hopefully I can lead it tomorrow.Q. It must give you great confidence going into tomorrow if you can work on things and fix things a bit for tomorrow?EDDIE PEPPERELL: Well, it does.  I don't feel that comfortable with my driver, put it that way, so I feel like I'm going to have to improve that a little bit come tomorrow.  Having said that, you haven't got to drive the ball immaculately around this golf course, you just can't hit a bad shot on a couple of holes quite frankly.  My putting was good today and it's going to be the guy with the hottest putter, depending a little bit on the conditions, that's going to come closest to winning this tournament because you can have a lot of birdie opportunities.  If I can keep putting well and keep the pace that I've got on the greens, then I feel like I can make enough birdies to certainly give it a run tomorrow.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT