ISPS HANDA WALES OPEN
September 20, 2014
Eddie Pepperell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   That was quite something, wasn't it, got it going pretty early on.   
EDDIE PEPPERELL:   Yeah, that was a good round.   I did get it going early on, and I actually made a good par on 2, which I supposed kick started me because I birdied 3 and 4 and sort of 2‑under through four.   That was a nice way to start, and I took it on from there.   
I played really good all day to be honest.   Every aspect of my game was good when I needed to get up‑and‑down or hole a crucial 4‑footer or whatever it was, then I just did that today.   
So that was a solid day.  
   
 Q.   We've seen you have some terrific rounds in recent months and recent years, indeed, but how does this compare?   
EDDIE PEPPERELL:   It's as good as I think I've played, because every aspect‑‑ I just was trying to work it out with Jamie on the last, I think I had 26 putts and we didn't miss many greens and I hit a lot golf shots.   It's hard to rank it but that's as good as I've played for a long, long time.   So that's a good thing; after yesterday, where yesterday was very scrappy, up‑and‑down.   Today I have no bogeys, like the first day, suggests that my game is pretty good.  
   
 Q.   I was going to ask you to putt it in context, because we know how well you've played and finished in Holland, but you've been going softly this week until today?  
EDDIE PEPPERELL:   Yeah, first day I felt good, I played really good.   Then yesterday, I felt like I hit more good shots yesterday, but I hit quite a few more bad ones and made some high numbers, and 3‑over, not thrilled, shall we say with the way I played.   And I promised my girlfriend I would try to get us a lay‑in on Sunday, so hopefully I've achieved it.   
   
 Q.   When did you get the impression this was building into such a lovely score that it would impact on the leaderboard?   
EDDIE PEPPERELL:   I think when I probably birdied 12, 5‑under par.   I think I felt then‑‑ because there were some chances coming up.   14, 15, is always a chance, as is 18.   I suppose I knew that, yeah, things were moving the right direction.   But, you know, when you think like that, quite often you can make a bogey on the next hole, and you think, why did I have them thoughts.   
I just tried to stay very, very patient, very much in the present, as well, on every shot and I did that well coming home.   So it was good.  
   
 Q.   By extension, what do you think of your chances on the final day now?   
EDDIE PEPPERELL:   I think the leaders will make some birdies.   I think there are some birdies to be had out there.   There are some tees up, but it's a great round of golf, and hopefully I can do something similar tomorrow and go out with as much confidence as I have.   Who knows, just need to get the putter going at the right time and see how many birdies I can make.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT