BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2013
Eddie Pepperell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Very many congratulations, your debut in this championship in your rookie season, can you tell us, what was most special about this experience this week?
EDDIE PEPPERELL:   It would be playing in front of all the crowds most definitely.   I had great support from home and I've just never played in front of that many people in my life, without question, that would be the most amazing part of this week, yeah.

Q.   How many do you think traipsed down from Oxfordshire to support you specifically?
EDDIE PEPPERELL:   I don't know the exact numbers obviously, but quite a lot, a lot of people from there obviously and Drayton Park where my dad works, loads of people, loads of support.   I've always felt lucky to have such a fan base really back home and good support locally and they turned up in numbers this week and it was great.

Q.   You're looking at a Top‑5 finish; how much to plan is this rookie season going for you? 
EDDIE PEPPERELL:   I didn't have a plan.   I didn't set any goals in terms of money and retaining the card because I know the way things can go in the season.   I try to divide the year up to be honest, and I felt like the first eight events, I learned so much, took some time off, made some decisions and so far they have proved good.   Changed my coach and had my putting coach on the bag today, first week with a new caddie, so that's what it's all about in my opinion, just reflecting and making good decisions and just trying to improve. 
I think I've done that pretty well so far.   So it's great for me and it's exciting and I'm positive that I can continue playing this sort of golf.

Q.   Have you enjoyed this? 
EDDIE PEPPERELL:   Yeah, it's been an amazing week, a long week, I'm absolutely shattered.   Need to get some food inside me, I think I may have lost a stone.   Looking forward to eating again. 
It's just been amazing, just been absolutely incredible, from the get‑go, just playing the course was brilliant.   As the week has just gone on, certain parts of my game have got a little better.   I think I've reacted to the crowds, when I've got going, I've felt like I really used the energy off them and played some really good stuff at times. 
The great thing is for me there's been moments in every round that have been quite tough.   Today again, just like yesterday really, and the second day, I had it going and then I hit a poor tee shot on 15, and all of a sudden that's when you're facing a moment where you've really got to step up and show people what you can do and let your character come out.   I felt like I had done that.   I hit good shots coming in. 
Disappointed to leave the putt short on the last because that's not the way I've been putting, but I was nervous.   Just been a great week. 

Q.   And you look like you've reveled in it, you have risen to the occasion. 
EDDIE PEPPERELL:   Yeah, that's always one that's difficult to answer, because you just play.   I'm just playing golf.   I'm just trying to hit my shots, and what can you say, if you're playing good, you're playing good.   There's no real reason why the fact that 30,000 people may be out there shouldn't change anything really.   It can only help.   I loved it. 

Q.   We never talk about money in this game particularly but you've learned a lot from this and that translates into a lot of ranking points and it translates into a good season. 
EDDIE PEPPERELL:   Yeah, absolutely.   Money's the least important thing to me, I don't play this game for that reason, never have done, but obviously it's an important part in terms of the rankings and what have you. 
So yeah, hopefully this will get enough up for me to retain the card and if it does then I will probably take the next few weeks off.   I'm absolutely shattered before the week, actually going to Madeira I was tired and didn't feel well the start of this week and need some time off.   Hopefully this finish will allow me to do that and do some work and come back out in a couple weeks a better player; that's what I'm interested in doing.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT