THE 148TH OPEN
July 18, 2019
Eddie Pepperell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
EDDIE PEPPERELL: I was pleased it was okay.  I struggled a little bit coming in.  I struggled with the greens.  It was actually my first time seeing the course today.  So there was a little bit of that, a bit of the unknown.   
However, I wouldn't say it hurt me today, quite honestly.  I saw it yesterday walking around in the rain.  It was okay.   
 Q.  Tell us about these greens?  
EDDIE PEPPERELL: I just struggled to hit the ball hard enough, really.  They looked quicker than they were.  I left a few short.   
It would have been nice to have shot in the 60s.  But it's not a bad start.  Obviously it's something to build on, which is nice.  I didn't shoot myself in the foot, which I've certainly done in the past at events.   
It's okay.  The course, it probably played -- the conditions weren't quite as tough as I was maybe expecting.  They're still not easy.   
 Q.  Was it a conscious decision not to play the course before you went out today?  
EDDIE PEPPERELL: I arrived Tuesday evening, and I would have gone out yesterday had the weather not been the way it was.  Once I saw that, I walked it, which is more than I usually do.   
Yeah, it's not uncommon for me to not play.  I've done it certainly in nearly every major I've played.  Practice rounds at majors are so long and boring, and I can't stand it, so I'd rather not play.   
 Q.  What was it like with the crowd?  Obviously this is a very special occasion.  Did it feel like it?  
EDDIE PEPPERELL: Yeah, it's very special playing in Ireland.  I think the best crowds in the world probably.  They come out in rain or shine, whatever the weather they're out there in numbers.   
And definitely feels special.  The course is special.  This is hopefully going to build into, progress to a historic Open.  I'm confident it will be.   
Having seen the course, it's wonderful.  The crowds, how great they are.  It's really cool to be part of.   
 Q.  What were you working on on the range?  
EDDIE PEPPERELL: I'm trying to find feels.  There's been one or two feels that I've played with for a good while now, two or three years, I would say.  I'm always trying to work towards those, so I have a few different routines.  I was working hard to find them.   
I hit quite a lot of good shots today.  Hit some bunkers, which is always the trouble at links courses.  But bogeyed every time.  It wasn't perfect.   
 Q.  How is the swing feeling?  
EDDIE PEPPERELL: It feels okay.  Really it doesn't feel wonderful, but it feels okay.  I'm not hitting anything -- I'm not hitting it wild or offline.  I haven't really done the last two weeks I've played.  I've been quite steady.   
It was much of the same today.  Nothing spectacular, but steady.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT