BETFRED BRITISH MASTERS
May 12, 2019
Eddie Pepperell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Thoughts on today?  
EDDIE PEPPERELL: Yeah, it was a good round.  Very steady, really.  Only hit a couple of bad shots but very steady.  The whole week, only made two bogeys actually which for me is remarkable.   
 Q.  I think a few people could be forgiven if they thought Matt and Marcus were going to run away and split from the field.  Did you think right to the end of that back nine that you might have had a chance?  
EDDIE PEPPERELL: Yeah, I kind of set myself a target of 17 a round after the turn, and I thought, I expected those guys to get to 17 -- get to 16 in the end.  Not far off that.  Pins weren't easy today and the pressure at the end playing with those guys, you can never be too sure.  But fair play to Marcus.  He's been a good player for a while, so good to see.   
 Q.  On 17, did you hit driver out of the rough?  
EDDIE PEPPERELL: I yeah, I just tried to play the hole in reverse.  In fact, any ever come back, I'm going to go lob-wedge, 1-iron, driver in the future on the par 5s because that seems to be the reverse order that I went if that makes any sense.   
It was a really good lie.  I got up there and said to Mick, this is a good lie.  I've hit driver a couple times this week, not too great to be honest but thought why not.   
 Q.  It's been a fantastic week, great crowds, great weather eventually this week and Tommy's done a great job.  Can you see yourself wearing his hat for the British Masters?  
EDDIE PEPPERELL: I don't know.  I don't think that's up to me.  Tommy is a wonderful role model and he's achieved a lot more in his career than I have, as well, which is a factor I think in terms of hosting.  You need to have a pretty stellar career behind you, and I'm not sure I have that yet.  One day I'd love to if at some point it's right, yeah, absolutely.   
 Q.  How does this set you up going into next week?  
EDDIE PEPPERELL: Well, I don't know because I hit hardly any drivers off the tee, and I think Bethpage is a completely different golf course.  I was aware of that coming into this week.  Kind of prioritised this one ahead of next week because I think a, it naturally favours my game when it's good, and obviously defending champ, and I like to put on a good show.   
I can't say this is going to give me a load of confidence going into next week, but I'm going there to have a bit of fun and enjoy it for what it is as much as I can next week, and not really set too many expectations.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT