NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS vs WARRIORS
June 2, 2018
Tyronn Lue
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You guys had a big advantage on the offensive glass in Game 1, but do you have to sacrifice that a little bit in order to improve transition defense?
TYRONN LUE: No, I think it's a fine line.  But if Kevin (Love) and Tristan (Thompson) and Larry (Nance Jr.) are in the paint when the shot goes up, they've got to get the offensive rebound or go for it, at least.  If they're on the perimeter, they've got to get back in transition.  So you can't crash on the perimeter once the shot goes up, but if they're inside the paint, we've got to go for the offensive rebound.
Q. I wanted to get your perspective as both a former player and a coach.  Coming off a loss like Game 1, do you prefer to have two games off to kind of decompress or refocus, or is it more --
TYRONN LUE: You mean two days off?
Q. Two days off, yes.  Two days off, or is it more preferable to want to come back as soon as possible?
TYRONN LUE: I don't know.  It really doesn't matter.  We put the game behind us.  It's over.  Now we've got to focus in on Game 2 tomorrow.  that's all we're focused on right now.
Q. What did you think of Jordan (Clarkson)?
TYRONN LUE: I thought he missed some easy shots that he normally could make.  I liked him being aggressive.  I thought he was good defensively.  He got a couple deflections, a couple of steals in that regard.  But offensively he just didn't make his shot.
Q. It seems like going through four rounds now with him that almost every time he misses, which is often, he's short.  Is it something mechanically that you guys have found, or is he just not comfortable out there?  What do you make of it?
TYRONN LUE: Well, I think he's comfortable because he keeps shooting (laughing).  He's not making shots right now.  One thing about J.C., he's confident.  He's not scared.  So he's got to be able to step up and make his shots.
Q. You've been through it all as a player and as a coach.  George Hill said yesterday this was the toughest loss in his career.  He can't remember a tougher one.  How do you as a coach or how does LeBron as a leader help lift players like that when a loss can be so deflating?
TYRONN LUE: Just stay confident.  Continue to talk to them after the game is over.  He put us in a good position to win the game, but the game is over.  There's nothing you can do about it.  So we've got to move on, move forward.  And from watching film today and just showing some guys where we can get better, all the guys are in a great spot right now and in a great position.  They all feel good, so we're ready to go for Game 2.
Q. Obviously LeBron's always going to be LeBron.  But with the Warriors not having Andre Iguodala out there, how are they different defensively without the qualities he provides?
TYRONN LUE: I think just having more bodies to throw at Bron.  That's about it.  I mean, because they switch everything anyway, it doesn't really matter who starts on him.
Q. LeBron's accuracy and his volume from the mid range has been up, way up in this postseason than at any other point in his playoff career.  How do you explain that?  What is different?
TYRONN LUE: You just have to take what the defense gives you.  I think he's doing a good job of that in these playoffs.  Whatever the defense will allow him to have, that's what he's going to take.  It could be mid-range; it could be to the basket; it could be threes.  It all depends on how the defense is playing him.
Q. It's hard to quantify when LeBron is at his greatest versus his second greatest.  But after losses in this particular postseason he's averaging like 40, 10, and 9.  Is there anything that you can point to that would make him supernatural after losses in particular right now?
TYRONN LUE: I don't really understand the question.
Q. In other words, his performance is high anyway, but it's super high after losses.  He's had his best games this postseason --
TYRONN LUE: So that means he has to score 60 now, right?  Well, got to score 60 tomorrow, then, I guess (laughing).
But, I mean, after a loss, it's tough.  But I think he always comes out and leads by example and sets the tone early, I think, offensively.  We need him to do that, especially on this floor with their crowd and the way they play.  We need him to set the tone early in all the games.
Q. I'm not sure about his defensive numbers, but from a production standpoint, if you look at Game 1 and the two games this regular season, Kevin Love has been productive against the Warriors.  And we know in years past he struggled in this series.  What has changed for him?
TYRONN LUE: You'd have to ask him that question.  But just me looking personally, he's being more aggressive, owning his space on his post-ups.  I think he was 8-for-11 inside the three last game.  So just being able to post him against mismatches, against Draymond if it comes to that.
I just think he's more confident.  I think he did a good job, too, defensively switching onto Steph, switching onto K.D. and really making it tough for those guys.  So overall, Kevin is in a good place.  And we need that same productivity when we play Game 2.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT