NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS vs WARRIORS
May 31, 2018
Tyronn Lue
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Couple of your players, including Kyle Korver, have talked about feeling absolutely no pressure coming in because of being a big underdog.  In your experience as a player, does that play out?  Can that help?  
TYRONN LUE: I mean, you shouldn't feel pressure anyway.  You go out, compete.  If you're prepared, you understand what's at stake, so just go out and give it everything you have, and you live with the results.   
 Q.  Ty, as you know, the team released this morning that Kevin was available to play.  I'm asking you to confirm that he's going to play and start tonight.  
TYRONN LUE: Yes, sir.   
 Q.  Since Kevin is playing, he hasn't played in a while due to the concussion protocol, what kind of minutes restriction will you have him on?  
TYRONN LUE: No minute restriction.   
 Q.  I don't know if you want to talk starting lineup and all that, but are you going to stick with Tristan as your starter?  
TYRONN LUE: Yes.   
 Q.  So same lineup as always?  
TYRONN LUE: Yes, sir.   
 Q.  Coach, can you loosen up there a little bit?  
TYRONN LUE: I don't like it.  I feel very uncomfortable right now (laughing).   
 Q.  That was it.  That was it.  
TYRONN LUE: Okay.   
 Q.  Just curious, Steve was talking about how much he enjoys the experience of The Finals.  How about you?  It's obviously different as a coach than as a player.  Can you talk a little bit about that?  
TYRONN LUE: Which part, players or coach?   
 Q.  As a coach.  
TYRONN LUE: Oh, I mean, the journey's not over, but as a coach, going through the long season and injuries and guys in and out and trades and all the different situations, to end up at the end of the season being one of the two teams playing, left playing, is a big accomplishment.   
So it's just gratifying to get to this point.  Especially when you have guys like Jeff Green and guys who signed, took less money to come here to try to win a championship and to be in their first Finals, it makes it all worth it.   
So, that's probably it.   
 Q.  Ty, do you have any comment on LeBron's shorts suit?  
TYRONN LUE: No comment (laughing).   
 Q.  I'm sure Kevin was disappointed not to play in Game 7.  Do you get a sense of his determination or sense of how he feels about tonight?  
TYRONN LUE: Yeah, I think he's excited.  He was happy for the guys that they pulled him along, because he was out and wanted to play in Game 7.  But from the concussion protocol, he couldn't.  So he's very excited.  His approach has been great the last couple days, so I'm excited for him.   
 Q.  Ty, it's been a feast-or-famine postseason for George Hill, up-and-down postseason for George Hill.  How much of a wildcard factor is he for you guys headed into this series?  
TYRONN LUE: He's a big factor.  When he's playing well, when he's aggressive, attacking the basket, our team changes.  We need him to play with that pace and speed, attacking the basket, taking his open shots.  When he's scoring the basketball and being aggressive, we're a different team.   
 Q.  What do you remember about Quinn Cook?  
TYRONN LUE: I thought he was a good player.  I always thought he was very solid, could shoot the basketball, can play pick-and-roll, could run pick-and-roll.  You know, just from my experience, having him, I think Coach Blatt was coaching when he came to training camp, but he gave it his all.  He tried so hard.  Sometimes he'd make mistakes and he was mad at certain plays, certain possessions.   
But overall, just a great offensive player, can do multiple things -- shoot the basketball, run pick-and-roll, catch and shoot, shoot off the dribble -- and got a little speed and pace to his game.   
 Q.  In a situation like this, do you just look at him and you're happy that he found a place and he's in The Finals, or do you say why didn't this work out for us?  
TYRONN LUE: No, very happy.  Very happy.  He's had a couple teams he's been on that he didn't make the team, but I've always thought he was a good player being a G League Most Valuable Player down there a couple times.  I've always liked him.  I'm glad he's got a chance and an opportunity to come to a championship-caliber team where he's played minutes, played in the playoffs.  So I'm just happy for him.   
 Q.  How might it help others that you've revealed you were dealing with anxiety, and how much courage did it take to talk about that right now on the Finals stage, and how might it help others?  
TYRONN LUE: To be honest, I messed up.  I didn't even really know I said it.  It just kind of came out during the interview.  But a lot of people are going through a lot of different things.  Just being able to cope with it and understand that there's a lot of different people that have reached out since yesterday, I guess, and told me they experienced some of the same things.   
But the biggest thing is that I feel great, and talking to my doctor, one of my happy places is the playoffs.  So that's a good thing (laughing).  So I do feel great, though.   
 Q.  How important do you anticipate Rodney Hood being in this match-up?  
TYRONN LUE: Oh, we'll see.  I'm just looking at some of the games he played when he was in Utah, he was one of the guys who could go get us baskets and score against their switches.  So we'll take a close look at that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT