NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS vs WARRIORS
May 31, 2018
Tyronn Lue
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Warriors - 124, Cavaliers - 114 (OT)
Q. Obviously a lot to get to there.  First, what did you say or what did JR say to you in the locker room about the play at the end of regulation?
TYRONN LUE: He thought it was over.
Q. He thought it was over?
TYRONN LUE: He thought we were up 1.
Q. Then did you get a -- or what was the explanation on the overturn of the charge to a block there?
TYRONN LUE: I guess the rule is you can review -- you can review the call if it's inside or outside the restricted, is the rule that I know.  And, I mean, they called a charge, right?  And LeBron was clearly four feet outside the restricted area.  So it doesn't make sense to go review something if -- the review is if he's on the line or if he's close to the charge circle, that's the review.  He wasn't close.
So what are we reviewing?  Either call a blocking foul or call an offensive foul.  For our team to come out and play their hearts out and compete the way we did, man, I mean, it's bad.  It's never been done before where you know he's outside the restricted, and then you go there and overturn the call and say it's a block.  It's never been done, ever, in the history of the game.  And then tonight in The Finals on the biggest stage, when our team played well, played our (butt) off, man, it ain't right.  It ain't right.
Q. Do you feel like what you just talked about led to some of the frustrations at the end of the game with Tristan Thompson?  Did he talk to you about what happened with that?
TYRONN LUE: No, he just thought Shaun should have shot the ball at the end.  The game was over, two seconds left to take a shot.  He just felt he should have shot the ball.
Q. You've seen your big guy every game, and he played a fantastic final game against Boston.  How do you describe this one?
TYRONN LUE: It was great.  I mean, it was epic, and he did enough to carry this team to a victory.  You know, we just came up short.  But this is LeBron James, that's who he is.  That's why he's the best player in the world.  He's been doing it for us all season.
To do what he did tonight and come out robbed, it's just not right.
Q. What was the -- I guess the mood or the scene in the huddle at the end of regulation?  I mean, what did you guys try to do to try to regroup from what happened with JR?
TYRONN LUE: I mean, who knows if JR would have made the lay-up anyway, so it was tough.  You know, he had a little -- he could have had a little floor, somebody was there.  Then you think about calling the time out.
But LeBron was open for a second, and it just happened too fast.  So, I mean, it came into the huddle.  We had a chance to win.  We had to regroup and try to win it, but they came out and played well in overtime.
Q. We've been talking all week about how big of an underdog you guys are, and you were a double-digit underdog tonight even.  No one expected this.  You guys looked like you felt like you belong here.  What kind of message or statement did you guys make tonight?
TYRONN LUE: I mean, you can say what you want until the game is played.  So, you know, being underdogs or whatever you want to call it.  I thought our team, for the first time a lot of guys being in The Finals, and the way we played, I just thought they did a good job.  I thought the game plan was good.  Did some good things, you know, but you hate to lose a game like that the way we did, being up 2, take a charge with 30 seconds left, and so whatever, man.
Q. When you lose the block/charge call and when JR makes the mistake, how hard is it for the team to kind of get their bearing, get their traction in that overtime, facing a situation that you didn't even expect to be in?
TYRONN LUE: I mean, we tried, you know.  They came out and played well in overtime.  We had some shots that we didn't make, and they made shots in overtime.  So, whatever.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT