NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CAVALIERS vs CELTICS
May 26, 2018
Tyronn Lue
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Note #1: Tyronn Lue conducted this conference call before the Cavaliers announced that Kevin Love is experiencing concussion-like symptoms and has been placed in the NBA’s concussion protocol. As part of the announcement, the team said Love is now listed as out for Game 7 on Sunday in Boston.
Note #2: There is no prohibition against traveling for a player who is in the NBA’s concussion protocol.
Q. What is Kevin Love's status?
TYRONN LUE: We don't have an update yet.  We just know he's in the protocol right now.
Q. He is in the protocol but not ruled out for the game yet?
TYRONN LUE: No.
Q. What about J.R. Smith and LeBron?  Both of those guys went down and played through it.  What can you give us as far as an update on both of those guys?
TYRONN LUE: I haven't heard anything from the medical staff, so I guess they're both good.  Didn't go in today, so I talked to the trainers about Kevin and everything.  No other updates and no other reports on any other guys.  Everybody else was healthy.
Q. Is Kevin traveling with you guys?
TYRONN LUE: Yes.
Q. And when will he be tested again?
TYRONN LUE: I'm not sure.  You've got to talk to the medical staff or [Cavaliers Communications] about that.  I just know that he hasn't been ruled out.  That's all I know.  That's all the information I have.
Q. You talked about this before, the home-and-home with both teams playing their best when they're on their own floor, but in this case you've got to win one on the road now to advance to The Finals.  What can you take from any of the films that you watched there?  Was there a common denominator as to why you guys didn't play well there, or do you just throw that all out and say it's winner-take-all Game 7?
TYRONN LUE: We throw it all out.  It's one game left to go to the NBA Finals.  We understand that.  We understand the blueprint to win.  Two of the biggest keys to the game are taking care of the basketball -- no live turnovers -- and getting back in transition.  If we do that, we'll be fine.
Q. In talking about George Hill in particular, his home versus road splits, do you see something different with his approach when he's on the road so far in this series versus the way that he's approached games at home?
TYRONN LUE: Just more aggressive at home.  We need him to take the same mindset that he had last night and the three home games and take it to Boston.  When he's aggressive attacking the basket, running pick-and-rolls, getting to the free-throw line, that really helps us out offensively and takes a lot of pressure off Bron where he doesn't have to make every play.  G-Hill's contribution is very important to our team and what we need.  I'm very confident he can do it tomorrow night.
Q. Are you guys in Boston now?
TYRONN LUE: No, we leave at 2:00.
Q. I thought guys in the concussion protocol could not fly on a plane.
TYRONN LUE: He's just being evaluated.  I'm not sure of all the language or whatever, but he's being evaluated and he hasn't been ruled out.
Q. If Kevin can't go tomorrow, will you start Jeff [Green]?
TYRONN LUE: I'm not going to get into that as far as speculation.  Right now our mindset is Kevin is playing, and then after that if he can't, then we'll make a decision.
Q. Larry Nance really gave you great minutes last night.  Are you more likely to play him sooner based on what you've seen the last few games versus what you saw earlier?
TYRONN LUE: Just depends on how the flow of the game goes.  He did a great job last night.  He was really active defensively.  I think offensively, him around the rim as far as offensive rebounding, dunking the ball, tip-backs and things like that is very helpful for us.  Just depending on the flow of the game, and we'll see.
Q. Are you concerned about LeBron's leg and his status?
TYRONN LUE: No.
Q. If you went over this in detail I'll get it later, but Kevin is in the protocol but no decision has been made for tomorrow?  That didn't make sense to me.
TYRONN LUE: Well, maybe I didn't say it right.  He's being evaluated.  I don't know the right terminology for it, but he's being evaluated.  I don't know if it's the protocol or whatever it is.  I just thought protocol meant evaluation.  But he's being evaluated, and he hasn't been ruled out, no.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT