NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS vs WARRIORS
June 8, 2018
Tyronn Lue
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Obviously, no team has ever come back from a 3-0 deficit in the NBA Finals, but there is a head coach/manager in Cleveland who has accomplished that in Major League Baseball.  Did you reach out to Terry Francona in his off day yesterday in your practice, maybe get a few words of advice on how you can do this?  
TYRONN LUE: No, I didn't want to bother him.  He has a lot of things going on as well.  But no team has ever come back from 3-1 either, and we did it (in 2016).  Our main focus is on tonight, our Game 4.  Not winning four, but winning Game 4.  That's all we're going to focus on.   
 Q.  What do you look for from Rodney Hood tonight in terms of how you're going to use him and that kind of thing?  
TYRONN LUE: The same aggression.  I thought he did a good job of just attacking the basket, rebounding the basketball.  He had six rebounds and he was able to push it in transition to get to the basket.  We're going to need that.  His shooting ability, his ability to make plays off the dribble, we're going to need it again tonight.   
 Q.  How do you think Kevin Love's second half changed in Game 3 versus his first half?  Then what can you do in Game 4 to get the entire game more like his first half?  
TYRONN LUE: First half, I thought he shot the ball well from outside.  His three-point shot was really falling.  In the second half, they did a good job of closing out to him and trying to make him put on the floor and take tough, contested shots.   
We've got to try to get him the same caliber of looks early on and carry it on to the second half, but also post him a little bit more as well.   
 Q.  George Hill wasn't really happy with how he played in Game 3.  What did you see and observe from him of how the Warriors were able to kind of get into him?  And what are you looking for out of him tonight?  
TYRONN LUE: I just didn't think he was in attack mode, being aggressive, attacking the basket.  They put Steph on him, I think, because Klay is favoring that ankle a little bit.  So they put Steph on him.  They're not going to switch the pick-and-roll with him and LeBron, so he was able to turn the corner and get to the middle of the paint.  Just have to finish at the basket or drop it off to Tristan (Thompson) if (JaVale) McGee helps.  But being more aggressive, attacking the basket.   
 Q.  I asked you before Game 3 what was the most important thing you needed to see from your team, and you said the physicality.  Were you happy with that all the way through Game 3, or was there a drop-off?  And how do you get it for four quarters?  
TYRONN LUE: It was a drop-off.  I think after the first quarter you saw a little drop-off as far as our physicality, being on bodies.  They did a good job of trying to slip screens, but it's harder to slip screens if you're on bodies and being physical.  So we've got to try to do that for 48 minutes.   
 Q.  What are some of the positives you've drawn from the first three games that you think could be useful for your team in Game 4 tonight?  
TYRONN LUE: I thought our blitzes last game with Steph were really good.  We did a good job of trying to take him out of the game.  Offensively, just looking at it, getting good shots that we're not making that we normally do.  Defensively, we've just got to be a little bit better with our communication on switches.   
I mean, we showed that it works when we do it right.  We've just got to be locked in and talking early, loud and continuous to make sure we hear the calls on the switches.   
 Q.  You faced elimination three times already in this postseason.  You won all three.  What is elimination day like for you?  I know you like to get a nap.  Do you struggle sleeping?  Is anything different for you when the stakes are raised a little bit and it might be the last day of the season?  Do you approach the day any differently?  
TYRONN LUE: I slept pretty good today.  I did.  I slept good.  That's a good thing (laughing).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT