NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CAVALIERS vs CELTICS
May 21, 2018
Tyronn Lue
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  There's been a lot of lopsided games on both sides with these Conference Finals.  Does that surprise you at all?  
TYRONN LUE: Yeah, it does surprise me.  The four last teams standing, all four teams are really good.  But the home court has shown it's been a factor, especially in Boston and coming here to Cleveland, where our fans supported us in Game 3 and the loud excitement they had in the arena.  So home court has played a big part of that.   
 Q.  We've seen a lot of huge comebacks.  We've seen a lot of lopsided games in previous years in the playoffs as well.  Does that have anything to do with the three-point line and the emphasis on the three-point shot?  Why do you think we see so many blowout games in the Playoff games?  
TYRONN LUE: I think three-point shooting.  I think last game we shot 17-for-34, which is 50 percent.  If we're making that many threes and shooting at a high volume, it's pretty good.  You've going to score the basketball.  That along with our defense we played in Game 3 made it pretty tough to beat us.  So I would say the three-point shot is very important.   
 Q.  I want to ask you about last night's game.  Not trying to trick you into saying you're thinking past the Celtics or anything like that because we all know that you are not.  But when you watch the Warriors and Rockets, you realize that you may have to play that Warriors team if you make it there.  What are your impressions when you see --  
TYRONN LUE: They've got to make it, too.  What about them?  They've got to make it, too, right?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
TYRONN LUE: Oh, OK.   
 Q.  It was the largest victory in franchise history last night, 41 points.  Just curious as a coach who might have to play them, what do you think when you watch a game like that?  
TYRONN LUE: I didn't watch it.   
 Q.  You could have stopped me five minutes ago.  
TYRONN LUE: I know you like to talk, so I let you get your words in.  (Laughter)   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT