NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CAVALIERS vs CELTICS
May 19, 2018
Tyronn Lue
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How do you pass the hours on a day like today, anticipating kind of a crucial game?
TYRONN LUE: I'm just ready.  I've been up for a while.  Couldn't really sleep.  So I'm excited.  Guys are excited.  We're happy to be home and ready for Game 3.
Q. When you're in a situation where you are trying to beat a team that has never lost or you're trying to win a Finals when you're down 3-1 and that's never been done before -- what I'm talking about is Boston has never lost a series in which they've led 2-0.  How do you grapple with that mentally, knowing that you were just in this spot two years ago against Golden State?
TYRONN LUE: That doesn't bother me.  The games have to be played.  They won two games on their home court, which we know they've been playing well at all playoffs.  But we're not discouraged.  We're ready for Game 3.  0-2 doesn't really mean anything.
Q. The guys were talking about when down 0-2, the key for them is to play the game the right way at the beginning.  For you guys as a group, what defines the right way?
TYRONN LUE: I think making the extra pass, playing with pace, not taking bad shots and taking care of the basketball on the offensive end.  I think defensively just being physical at all five positions.  I think we've got to bring physicality to the game, and we'll be well off.
Q. There's talk about we need to make shots that we missed.  Does it come down to making essentially the same shots, same quality of shots, or do you need to do things to create better quality shots?
TYRONN LUE: I thought Game 1 we got way better shots than we did Game 2.  I thought all Game 2 we took bad shots in that second half.  I thought we could have had better shot selection.  We turned the ball over more than we wanted to.  I think going into the half we were up 11 with 30 seconds left.  They got a loose ball and scored, then we turned the ball over and they ended up cutting it to seven at halftime.  Just taking care of the basketball and getting quality shots.
Q. Through two games George Hill has eight points and one assist.  What were your conversations with him like the last couple days, and what do you expect out of him in Game 3?
TYRONN LUE: Just expect him to play with more pace.  I think miss or make, getting the ball up fast and running into our double drag situations, our flow situations.  We've got to move it around a little bit.  I think we got a little stagnant in that second half in Game 2.  We've got to do a good job of moving him around and letting him come out, dribble hand-offs and things like that, because they are trying to switch.  Him just being more aggressive and playing with more speed and pace.
Q. Was there something in the last three days that you guys did that impressed you or could have just been your mentality, your attention to detail, anything?
TYRONN LUE: I thought the guys came in with a great mindset of just trying to get better and what we need to do to get better to win these games.  We'll look to incorporate a couple different things offensively, and we'll see how that works tonight.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT