NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS vs WARRIORS
June 8, 2018
Tyronn Lue
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Warriors - 108, Cavaliers - 85
Q. Just given the whole five seasons in one thing and the fact that you guys have had so much up and downs and the roster, so much turnover with that, the fact that they got to this stage in the first place and had a chance to win some games, just the accomplishments that you guys had, where do you find yourself thinking how this season ended up?
TYRONN LUE: Just after the game, just talking to the guys, it was a tough season.  We went through a lot, but I think it made us tougher, made us stronger.  The new guys who had a chance to play in the playoffs for the first time, the new guys who had a chance to experience The Finals, which you dream of doing when you're a kid.  They had that experience.  I told those guys now they see what we have to do to get better and take that next step.
But, man, overall, everything that this team has been through, the players have been great.  They stuck with it.  Never gave in.  We had plenty of opportunities to fold, and we didn't.  I think our coaches did a great job of just keeping guys ready, coming up with game plans to try to be the best that we could be defensively.
I thought we turned a corner in the playoffs defensively, outside of playing these guys, who are dynamic offensively.  But we did some good things.  Dan Gilbert, Koby Altman, they've done some great things to be able to help going toward the future.  Dan's always willing to spend to help us get to that point.  Koby made some ballsy decisions that worked, that could help us down the stretch and in the future.
So after all the stuff that we've been through and for the guys to pull together and get this far when a lot of people counted us out, we're very proud of the guys.  It's a big step for us.
Q. How do you want or how do you think fans should remember this season from LeBron?
TYRONN LUE: To be the best player in the world and to give everything you've got in your 15th season, play all 82 games, probably one of the greatest playoff runs that we'll ever see from an individual, to carry this team the way he did all season and leading by example, it's just a testament to his character and who he is as a person and as a player.
He had a lot of opportunities where he could have sat out of games and was going through a tough stretch and wasn't playing well, but he didn't want to do that.  And a lot of guys would have folded under those circumstances, but he didn't.  He's a bad boy, and I love having him on our team.  He fights and competes to the end.
Sometimes you can give everything you've got and still come up short.  I thought that's what our group of guys did in this series.  That's about it.
Q. What do you think LeBron will do this summer, and what do you think he should do?
TYRONN LUE: I hope he stays.  I mean, we all know that.  But after a game like that, I'm not in any position to talk about that.  I just appreciate what he's done for us this season.  That's all I can really speak about.
Q. Those of us who know you personally, it's been a trying season for you as well.  You've always ended in The Finals.  But given what could happen this summer in terms of all the changeover and whatnot, do you intend to come back as coach?
TYRONN LUE: From my standpoint?
Q. Absolutely.
TYRONN LUE: Yeah, I do.  I had some tough problems going on throughout the course of the season, and like you said, I probably could have folded myself, but I wasn't going to do that.  I knew that even if I wasn't feeling a hundred percent, I had to get back for the playoffs.  That's my time.  That's my moment.  I didn't want to put our coaches in that situation.  I didn't want to put our players in that situation, and I had to fight through it.  That's what champions do.  I gave everything I had.
Then in my absence, Larry Drew and (Mike) Longabardi, and Phil Handy, (James) Posey, D-Jones (Damon Jones), Vitaly (Potapenko), Jim Boylan, they did a hell of a job just holding it down until I got back.
Even though I came back when I wasn't quite ready, I had to.  That's who I am.  I'm never going to give up and never going to give in.  I stayed the course and was able to have a pretty special year, outside of losing in The Finals.
But I thought we did a good job of staying the course and getting to this point.  I'm happy for the guys.
Q. Two very winnable games in this series, so close, and yet it's over in four.  If you could point to one thing where you guys -- or what you guys didn't do, what would that be?
TYRONN LUE: I would say communication.  I would say defensively.  But, again, it's tough.  They move at such a pace, and they have five guys on the floor that can dribble, pass and shoot.  They can make plays.  So if you make a mistake, they're going to make you pay.  That's the beauty of their team.
Even when you do defend them well, you've still got guys like Steph and K.D. and Klay who can make unbelievable shots, even when you play the best of defense.  I would just say our communication on our switches, we weren't that good at.
Q. What did you learn about yourself as a coach this year, with all the changes?  I'm sure you had to coach more.  Secondly, how far away are you from competing on the same level as the Warriors?
TYRONN LUE: Just about myself, I can always get better.  But I know that I'm a tough guy.  I pride myself on that.  I'm hard on myself a lot of times, but I've got to realize I've only been coaching for two and a half years.  It feels like 10 or 15.  I can get better, and I'm going to get better.  I just learned that you've got to stay the course in this profession.  Anything can happen.  We had plenty of chances to mail it in, to make excuses, and we didn't do that.  I think it started with me, it started with LeBron with just saying no excuses.  And here we are today.
As far as the Warriors go, there were two games that were very winnable.  Being up 1 in Game 3 with three minutes left, having a chance to win it with a free throw in regulation in Game 1.  So despite how good their team is, I thought our guys did a good job of competing.  We still have to improve and get better, which we will.  But we're not that far off.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT