NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CAVALIERS vs CELTICS
May 15, 2018
Tyronn Lue
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I just was wondering, you guys are much older than the Celtics.  What kind of advantages and disadvantages are there with that?
TYRONN LUE: I don't know, I guess if you're older, you've got more experience.  They're younger, have fresher legs.  Sometimes they don't know what's at stake when you're so young, you just play because you play that way anyway.  They're a youthful team, but I think we've got older guys with experience.
Q. Ty, how important has George Hill been in the last series against Toronto, and how important is he tonight and going forward in the series?
TYRONN LUE: He's been important overall.  I think even in the Indiana series before he got hurt, he was playing really well.  I think coming back and playing that second half of Game 7, he really played well and got us that victory.  Last series we had to guard Kyle Lowry and play with pace, getting downhill, the pick-and-rolls, causing mismatches, he's been great for us, so going forward, we expect the same thing.
Q. I was actually going to ask about him, as well.  Stats-wise he didn't really have it on Sunday.  Was it something the Celtics did or was his back acting up, anything like that?
TYRONN LUE: No, I just thought they switched a lot of stuff, so they took away his aggressiveness coming off the pick-and-roll, so we went with a couple things to try to do it different, but he'll be fine.
Q. Can you guys sustain a bad game from LeBron and still win?
TYRONN LUE: Yes.  I think so.  I just think what we had the last game, it just happened too fast.  I think we missed easy shots early on in the game, and it just kind of snowballed from there.  I think they attacked us early on in transition, attacked us in the post-ups and driving the basketball.  To answer your question, yes.
Q. You've played with one of the slowest paces of any team in these Playoffs.  First of all, is that by design, and do you think that has anything to do with -- is there a correlation between the lack of turnovers that you guys have had?  You really cut down on your turnovers.  Is there a correlation between slowing the game down and not turning the ball over?
TYRONN LUE: Well, I think we want to run, we have the opportunity, I think getting steals, deflections, rebounding the basketball.  We want to push first to try to get easy baskets, and if not there, flow into our secondary offense.  We have been playing a slower pace I think because of the ball pressures the last two series, which kind of slowed us down a little bit, but we want to play with pace because when we're thriving, getting our threes and LeBron is getting downhill, getting into the paint, getting to the free-throw line, but playing a slower pace has helped take care of the basketball.
Q. You've coached against Terry Rozier, first as a backup to Isaiah [Thomas], now with Kyrie [Irving].  Did you have an opinion on him in those roles?  Did you look at him and think you might see a future starter someday or the player that he became?
TYRONN LUE: Well, actually I thought he was a throwback player.  He'd come in the game, pick something full court, plays with speed, change of pace, but now he's stepped into a starting role, and he's been scoring the basketball, running the team.  Just seeing him mature is great.  I just always thought he was a throwback player because he used to come in the game, play with pace and speed and harass the other point guard defensively, but now he's took it to a whole new level.
Q. Any changes to the starting lineup tonight?
TYRONN LUE: Not ready to discuss that right now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT