NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CAVALIERS vs CELTICS
May 14, 2018
Tyronn Lue
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Is it fair to say that LeBron James had a bad game?
TYRONN LUE: Yeah, he had a bad game, along with a lot of other guys who had a bad game.  Looking at the tape, especially in the first quarter we got a lot of good looks that we liked, a lot of open shots we just didn't make.  They made some shots, and it kind of got away from us.  We'll play better tomorrow, but we had a bad game.
Q. After the tough opener against Indiana, you basically told us that you were going to (indiscernible).
Are you looking for a similar start tomorrow, a similar idea?
TYRONN LUE: I'm not sure.  Just need him to be aggressive, especially when they're switching and putting smaller guys on him or switching and putting fives on him.  Just being aggressive, making the right play.  Last night we just weren't in sync offensively, and it kind of carried over to our defense.
Q. How tough did Marcus Morris make it on LeBron?
TYRONN LUE: Morris is going to compete.  He's a tough guy.  He's going to play hard and compete.  But they did a lot of switching as well, so it wasn't just Morris on him.  I thought they did a good job of switching.  When they got the mismatch in the post, they came from the baseline side and double-teamed him.  He made the right play and the right pass; we just didn't make shots.
Q. How do you counter when they're always switching?
TYRONN LUE: Make shots.  I think the switching smaller guys on to Kevin [Love] and LeBron, the double team, we made the right play.  We've got to either make shots or put it back on the floor and drive it to the basket.
Q. Kevin said he thought you guys were soft in the first half defensively.  Do you agree with that, and in what ways did that show itself?
TYRONN LUE: I think missing shots offensively kind of carried over to our defense.  I don't think we were soft defensively.  I just think they took advantage of mismatches that we weren't able to get there.  They were basically doing the same thing we were doing, but they executed better than we did last night.
Q. The Supreme Court today ruled that basically the laws outlawing sports betting are unconstitutional, that people are going to be able to legally bet on sports, live sports --
TYRONN LUE: Who can?
Q. Everybody.
TYRONN LUE: On basketball?
Q. Yes.
TYRONN LUE: Why you trying to get me in trouble?  I don't know anything about it.  I don't know.
Q. Can you fathom how, if at all, this will affect how you manage a game if a large number of paying customers cared about the spread and things like that?  Can you envision any way that that would --
TYRONN LUE: No, no.
Q. You made a switch in the first series and put Tristan Thompson in the starting lineup.  I know why you play small, something you've played all year.  Is that something you have to weigh going forward in this series?
TYRONN LUE: It's definitely something we have to weigh.  We weighed it before the series started.  But we won seven out of eight, and we weren't going to adjust until someone beat us.  We had played well with that lineup, and it got us to this point.  Yes, we have to weigh that decision.
Q. What could he possibly give you against Al Horford?
TYRONN LUE: Looking at the statistics over the last three years: Of at least 30 possessions, out of all the guys that guarded Al Horford, Tristan has been No. 1 in the league defending Al Horford.  That's a good thing to know.  And you guys have a great day [laughter].






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT