NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CAVALIERS vs CELTICS
May 13, 2018
Tyronn Lue
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Celtics - 108, Cavaliers - 83   
 Q.  Ty, where do you start with this one?  
TYRONN LUE: We lost.   
 Q.  [Marcus] Morris and [Al] Horford were obviously too much for you guys tonight.  But how hard is it to make adjustments when it seems like you just didn't play well across the board?  
TYRONN LUE: We didn't play well.  We understand that.  We know we have to be better.  I thought early on they really attacked us in the paint.  Having 60 paint points is way too many.  But they played a good game.   
 Q.  What did Marcus Morris and the other Celtics do to contain LeBron?  
TYRONN LUE: I thought they showed two bodies all night.  When they thought he had driving lanes they helped make him kick it out to our shooters, so we'll have to look at the tape to see how they were playing him.   
 Q.  Was it anything different than you've seen before?  
TYRONN LUE: We'll see.   
 Q.  You were off almost a week.  I know you don't like to make excuses, but is it as much mental rust as it is physical rust, something like that?  
TYRONN LUE: No, we just didn't play well.  We had the same amount of rest.  They were off, too.  They played better than we did tonight, and we understand that.   
 Q.  You guys shot 15 percent from the three-point line.  How much of that was their defense, and how much was you guys just missing makeable shots?  
TYRONN LUE: A little bit of both, I think.  We had some great shots early we didn't make, and [it] just kind of snowballed from there.  Couldn't really make shots.  4-for-26 from three, that's not us, but they did a good job of closing out, and trying to run us off the three.  But I thought we had some good shots and missed it as well.   
 Q.  When you're not hitting from three, it usually affects your energy.  Did you notice that was sort of lacking because of that?  
TYRONN LUE: I think so.  I think it was a cause of us not making shots.  Our guards let down on defense, and we can't do that.  But I thought they did a good job of attacking mismatches, attacking us inside, but that's about it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT