NBA FINALS: CLEVELAND VS GOLDEN STATE
June 9, 2017
Tyronn Lue
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. The last two years the Cavs have won Game 3, lost Game 4 here, just one day rest in between.  A scenario just like this, a near win on Game 3, the heavy minutes of LeBron, can he handle it, can Kyrie, can they handle the fatigue factor that Coach Kerr has referred to so much tonight in Game 4?
COACH LUE: We have to.  Our backs are against the wall.  It's Game 4.  We're down 0-3.  So got to do a better job of trying to get those guys some rest going into the fourth quarter.  But last game is one of those games that we thought they needed to play.  They didn't want to come out.  And so we just didn't finish the game the right way.  But I wouldn't blame it on fatigue.
Q. When you look back at, say, March or the other parts of the season where things weren't necessarily moving in a smooth direction, to where you guys stand now as a team, no matter what happens tonight, what stands out about your team growth?
COACH LUE: I just thought over the course of the season, just getting healthy, I thought guys understanding who we were.  Once we got to the playoffs, I thought defensively we really turned the page.  I thought we really got a lot better defensively, understanding what we wanted to take away.  Offensively, playing at a high clip, being the best offensive team in playoff history.
So I thought guys really picked it up, played well, and that's about it.
Q. You guys came in shooting I think 43 percent from three before The Finals.  You're down around 30 percent for The Finals.  How much of that do you think is just things balance out over time, or are they that good defending the three-point line that you're having problems?
COACH LUE: They're doing a good job of trying to defend the line, but we also had some open shots that we're missing that we're capable of making.  So we just have to do a better job of taking our shots, taking them with confidence.  And that's who we are.  We have three-point shooters, and when we're open, we need to take them.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT