NBA FINALS: CLEVELAND VS GOLDEN STATE
June 9, 2017
Tyronn Lue
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Cavaliers - 137, Warriors - 116
Q. Good win, but were you given an explanation on what happened with those two technical fouls with Draymond in the third quarter?
COACH LUE: What do you mean?
Q. It's easy to shrug off obviously given the magnitude of the game, but he was called in the officials scorers box at 1:55 in the first with a technical foul, called midway through the third for a technical foul, it appeared the first was rescinded.  I wondered if you were given an explanation as to why that happened.
COACH LUE: Yeah, well, Mike Callahan told me that the first one they called was on Steve Kerr.  And I said, well, it's right here on the sheet that it was on Draymond, and our scorers people said the same thing.  But evidently he said no, it was on Steve Kerr, the first one.  So that was the explanation.
Q. The way that Tristan set the tone for you guys from an energy standpoint there in the first quarter, and just sustained it all the way through, how can you guys bring that mentality to Golden State knowing that when you do have that kind of energy, that's the product you get?
COACH LUE: We just have to bring it however we have to do it.  I stick with my guys.  Tristan was great.  JR's been great these last two games.  These guys got us here and I'm sticking with my guys, not going to change my lineup.  And like you said, Tristan was big tonight, JR was big.  We have to bring the same intensity and the same effort into Golden State on Monday.
Q. How do you explain the first quarter?  The demoralizing defeat, down 3-0 and 49 points, all kinds of records, the offensive explosion, the defensive intensity.  How do you explain what your team was able to manifest tonight?
COACH LUE: We made shots.  We have been getting these shots all series.  We haven't shot the ball very well, but defensively we got stops early and were able to get out in transition and score some easy baskets.  And Kevin really shot the ball well.  Draymond, he's one of the best help defenders in the league, and tonight when he was helping, we made him pay.  Kevin made shots.  When we're making shots and we're playing with pace, we're a tough team to beat.  This is who we are.  We're a tough, resilient team.  And we know we were down 3-0, but we thought we gave a game away in Game 3.  So we knew this team was beatable.  We knew we can play better, and this is the result you get when we play at our best.
Q. Also would you say that getting production out of JR, that that third scorer, besides the big three, maybe a fourth scorer, that that's what you needed?
COACH LUE: Yeah, JR's an assassin, so take his shots.  We talked to him about trying to make plays, like I need you to shoot the basketball and be a scorer.  And he's been shooting the ball well.  He's made some big shots.  Defensively he's been really good.  So we will continue to ride this wave going into Golden State on Monday.
Q. The third quarter got very testy.  What you can about what happened between LeBron and Kevin Durant, and then is that as intense as you've seen these two teams go at it or any teams in The Finals?
COACH LUE: I don't know about any teams, but our team for sure.  You get down 3-0 and you're fighting and you're trying to get a win, you do whatever it takes.  I thought our team was very energetic.  I thought Shump came in and give us some great minutes with great energy.  LeBron.  Just we had a total team effort.  It was a total team effort.
But I thought we really brought a physicality to the game.  We had a purpose and we cut down some of our mistakes we have been making those first three games and were able to play well.
Q. Anything on what LeBron and Durant were getting after there?
COACH LUE: I don't know.  I mean, I don't.
Q. You must give a hell of a pregame speech.
COACH LUE: No speech.
Q. No speech at all?
COACH LUE: Nope.
Q. What you did say to them beforehand?
COACH LUE: We watched film, showed our mistakes that we have to get better at, that we can't continue to make, because they make you pay.  I thought overall we made some mistakes, and of course you are against a team like this, but overall I thought we really did a good job of cutting down on our mistakes.  And showed them the film and just told them one game at a time.  And the guys' mindset, they were ready to play, so it wasn't time for a speech.
Q. You usually say more than that and you decided to hold back this time?
COACH LUE: No, I don't, I never speak before the game or after the game.  I don't.
Q. Did you get an explanation on the double techs with Pachulia and Shumpert instead of focusing on the couple punches that Pachulia had thrown there?
COACH LUE: Yeah, I mean, it's just tough and I really -- I hate to complain, so I know officiating is tough, and but when you go review situations, they usually get it right.  So if they didn't call it, then I guess it wasn't anything.  I haven't really seen it yet, so they went and reviewed it, that's all you can ask, and they came back and just said a jump ball.  So we jumped it up.
Q. And then on a different level, being down 3-0, losing the way you did, there's a lot of room to be demoralized.  When did you know or think or feel like your guys would come out and play like this tonight?
COACH LUE: This morning's shootaround.  It started at shootaround.  Had a great vibe in the shootaround and guys were upbeat, wasn't no hanging heads or sad.  Guys were into it.  Golden State's a tough team.  We understand that, but we just felt that we have gotten better each game.  And we felt if we played our basketball and make shots and play our brand of basketball, that we could win.  So tonight was who we are, we made shots, and defensively I thought we were pretty good.
Q. You're down 3-1 heading back to Oakland.  It sounds familiar.  How much confidence do you think your team can derive from last year's experience?
COACH LUE: Well, we have to come back home, so we might as well come back with a win.  That's our mentality.  We know it's a tough environment to play in.  We played well there before, so if we have the same approach that we had tonight, of physicality, locking in defensively, cutting down on some of our mistakes and we shoot the ball well, then we have great chances.
Q. I apologize if you addressed this early on in the presser, but you had 31 threes through the first three games on 104 attempts.  Tonight you go 24 in the game, most ever in a Finals game in league history.  What do you think changed on that end?  It seemed to me JR Smith's let it fly attitude permeated throughout the whole group?
COACH LUE: I thought we got some of the same shots throughout the course of the series.  We haven't been making shots.  We haven't been shooting the ball well.  We shoot the ball well, these are the type of explosives we can have offensively.  So we have to make shots, and we understand that.
Our fans were great tonight.  Being down 3-0 and coming into this building, they gave us a lot of energy, a lot of juice, and gave us a lot of fight.  Believe-Land is not going to give up, and we're going to keep fighting.  We're going to keep scrapping.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT