NBA FINALS: CLEVELAND VS GOLDEN STATE
June 7, 2017
Tyronn Lue
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Can you talk about the mindset of your team approaching this game and how do you see the guys coming into the arena?  
COACH LUE: Oh, we feel good.  They play great on their home floor.  We have to get the fans something to cheer about, which I know we will.  And we're on our home floor now, so the guys are in good spirits.  We just have to clean up a few things, a few minor mistakes, and falling asleep and not being aware and things like that.  But we feel good.   
 Q.  Bear with me on this one, but you are --  
COACH LUE: What?   
 Q.  There are no lineup changes?  
COACH LUE: No, sir.   
 Q.  If someone had told you before this series started that through two games Kevin Love would be averaging I think it's 21 and 14, it's incredible numbers, where would you think the Cavs would be with him playing that way for two games?  
COACH LUE: Probably 1-1.  But Kevin's been great.  We just have to continue to keep playing.  Other guys have to continue to try to produce.  Coming into the Game 3 at home, we'll be a lot better.   
 Q.  I was to tell you in Game 2 you outscore the Warriors by 20 in the paint, you have a franchise career high in steals, you're one off of your playoff high in assists, you're one off your playoff low in turnovers, and you lose by 19, how do you make sense of thinking by many measures you played a lot better but at the same time the result's the same?  
COACH LUE: We did play better.  But they made, what, 18 threes.  So just because you got a lot of points in the paint, you still have to take away their three-point shooting.  We know they're going to make some tough shots from 30 feet, and they're capable of making those shots.  But the other shots where we're just relaxing, falling asleep, not aware, those are the ones we have to take away.   
 Q.  You talked about not making any changes before the game, but in the third quarter, that's where they have kind of had or taken control of the game.  How do you make adjustments there so it doesn't get away from you if it's close again like it's been in the first two games?  
COACH LUE: Well, the third quarter they got off to a good start I thought early.  We made some adjustments and went small and then we cut the lead to four.  Then from there they kind of took off.  We had a couple bad possessions, couple turnovers, couple silly fouls.  It goes from four to 11 that quick.  So just have to tighten up in those areas, and I think everything else will be fine.   
 Q.  Following up on that, unforced errors or because of what they were doing?  
COACH LUE: Unforced errors.  We had two of those.  Then we had two or three bad shots.  And when you do that against this team, you can't get back.  You can't get floor balance.  And that's when they're dangerous.   
 Q.  Do you feel like you can get the ultimate production out of LeBron James if he is -- you ask him what you ask him on the offensive end, but then he has a heavy dose of trying to hold 35 [Kevin Durant]?  Can he play extended minutes doing both?  
COACH LUE: Yes, he can.  That's why he's the best player in the world.  He has to do it.  K.D.'s guarding him, so the first five or six minutes, just to set the tone, I think, of guarding K.D., being physical.  And then when we go to our bench, we can bring guys in that we can put on K.D.  And it's just not a one-on-one game.  We have to understand what our schemes are, who we're trying to help off of and what we're trying to do.  Guarding Kevin Durant or LeBron James or Steph Curry, any of those guys one-on-one, Kyrie, you're not going to be able to do that.  So you have to understand what you're doing scheme-wise, and you have to follow the game plan.   
 Q.  You guys want to play fast, you've emphasized that over and over again, but do you want to play this fast?  I think the number of possessions per game is up about 20 percent over last year.  And is there a perfect speed for you guys to get to?  
COACH LUE: Well, when I say play fast, not like them -- they have guys that can shoot the ball from 35 feet.  They shoot those threes in transition.  But we want to play fast and get good shots.  We want to get into the paint, LeBron getting to the free throw line and getting easy baskets like he did in the first quarter.  And then if they help, kicking out for threes, that's where J.R. gets shots and Korver gets shots and K-Love.  We want to play fast; we don't want to play in a hurry.  We want to get good shots.  We don't want to take the long threes and things like that.  But when we're playing aggressive, we're in attack mode, playing with pace, that's when we're at our best.  But taking good shots.   
 Q.  Did they control the tempo the first two games?  They played more at their comfort level?  
COACH LUE: I think when we're missing shots, we're taking bad shots or turning the basketball over, that's when they're dangerous.  So we just have to do a better job with that.   
 Q.  Last year in Game 3 you got back to the series, you blow out the Warriors.  Does that game have any impact on today?  
COACH LUE: Well, it's kind of the same situation.  We got beat by I think a total of 48 points in the first two games in Golden State, and we came back home, made a couple adjustments.  Playing at home, we know we have great fans, a great crowd.  They feed off that crowd in Golden State, and we feed off our crowd here.  So seeing what happened last year, coming home down 0-2, we know our fans are going to be into it.  But we have to give them something to cheer for.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT