NBA FINALS: CLEVELAND VS GOLDEN STATE
June 7, 2017
Tyronn Lue
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Warriors - 118, Cavaliers - 113
Q. I'm wondering down the stretch you guys were so good going to the hole, were you happy with the shot selections down the stretch there?
COACH LUE: We could have got better.  Did a good job of attacking the paint all night, and then they don't have a lot of shot blockers in the game, they went small.  So shots that our guys are capable of making but we should have been more aggressive getting to the paint.
Q. You're up 113-107 with the ball, three minutes to go, what happened both offensively and defensively at that point?
COACH LUE: I got to look at it.  I don't know.  I can't remember.
Q. Just trying to think, do you think it was more, again, self-inflicted or what they were doing?
COACH LUE: Well, if you miss shots, you get out in transition, and they play so fast, so when you miss shots you got to have good floor balance because if you don't, they take advantage of it.  And I really can't remember the last three plays, Kenny, really, I can't.
Q. Everything LeBron does gets dissected over and over again.  I wanted to see your take on his look to Korver in the corner.  I think that would have put you up by two possessions at that point in the game.  Was that the way you drew it up, and what did you think of LeBron's read there?
COACH LUE: Well, Kenny was asking, but you want to attack the paint.  You want to put the pressure on them.  And if they helped, I thought Korver got a clean look.  And just putting the pressure on them.  If they help, you got to make the right play, which LeBron always does.  And if they don't, they get all the way to the basket because they don't have shot blockers.
Q. We talked about this before the game, but LeBron leaves for about two minutes and you go from up 2 to down 7 in the first half.  Do you feel like you had to play him the entire second half?  And I guess the same for Kyrie, because you got nothing again out of Deron.  Did you feel like you had to leave those guys on the court?
COACH LUE: Well, I knew it was going to be a tough game for us.  And for us to win, I knew I to give LeBron at least a two minute blow in that first quarter because in the second half he might not get a blow.  So Kyrie was playing well, the game was on the line, so I decided to stick with those guys, being at home, down 0-2.
Q. Do you think they just were too exhausted in the final couple minutes?
COACH LUE: I don't know.  Great players, they always dig deep and have their will to win.  And they gave us everything they had.  Durant made eight straight points that was very critical, three big shots, and that's why they brought him here, for those situations.
I thought or team scrapped and competed.  I can't be disappointed with the effort and how we played, but they made the plays down the stretch that we didn't execute defensively or offensively, and they took advantage of it.
Q. What is the mood now in the locker room after?
COACH LUE: I didn't even go in there.
Q. What is your mood?
COACH LUE: I feel -- I mean, of course, you're deflated from losing a game that you should have won.  You're right there.  But after tonight you got to get back to the drawing board.  If we came out with the same fight and intensity we did tonight, I can respect that and we got a good chance of winning on Friday.
Q. We could go through things that didn't go right here or there, but when you guys -- overall I think we can all agree you guys played a great game and just didn't work out.  When you play that well against a team like the Warriors, do you come to realize just the enormity of the challenge in front of you to even stay with a team like that?
COACH LUE: No, they're a great team, but I think we're a great team also.  They're playing at a high level.  Like I said, tonight our guys felt, I felt we had a game that we had won that we let slip away.  And they made the plays down the stretch, so you got to give credit to those guys.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT