NBA FINALS: CLEVELAND VS GOLDEN STATE
June 4, 2017
Tyronn Lue
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You guys are wearing your black uniforms today for Game 2, do they bring back any good memories just seeing that kit?
COACH LUE: I didn't even know that.  But they love those jerseys, but we still got to play.  It doesn't make a difference on what jersey you wear.  But they like those jerseys, but we got to be ready to play tonight, and we will be.
Q. Steve Kerr was just in here.  He's going to be coaching from the bench this evening.  Does that make any changes at all for you guys, or what would you like to speak about Steve Kerr coming back?
COACH LUE: Well, it's just great to see him back.  Steve Kerr's a guy I respected even before he started coaching.  I just like who he is as a person, and throughout the course of the Playoffs I've checked on him and we text and talk.
So it's good to have him back over there.  And if anything happens with their team, their leader is back.  So as always, good to have your leader back, and I'm just happy to have Steve Kerr back and healthy.
Q. You stress about your defense about no turnovers.  How confident you are that your players understand the importance of these things?
COACH LUE: They understand it, but they got to do it.  They understood it coming into the game.  We talked about our best defense being our best offense.  You can't give a team like this 20 extra shots.  We did that, so we got do a better job of taking care of the basketball.
Q. You talked for a couple days about having to play faster, but if you look at the pace rating, Game 1 was the highest pace you've played with in this entire post-season.  So, is it really a matter of more possessions, or what is it you're looking for?
COACH LUE: Playing faster but taking care of the basketball.  But we got to be -- we got to play with pace.  They're a good half court defensive team, we know that, so we can't get bogged down in the half court offense.  So when we get stops, we get out and run, that's when we're at our best.  So playing with pace, but also taking care of the basketball.
Q. In this particular series against Golden State, what do you want and what do you need from your bench?
COACH LUE: Just follow the game plan.  Whatever your job is, you got to come in and do it.  I always talk about being a star in your role.  So whatever your role may be, if you play 30 seconds or 30 minutes, you got to be ready to play.  So when the shots are available, they got to take them.  You got to be aggressive.  You got to attack.  And you can't play passive against this team.
Q. Channing got three DNP's in last year's Finals.  I think he was the only guy that didn't play Thursday night.  Obviously it's a bad matchup for him, but is there any situation where you can see him getting some run?
COACH LUE: Yes.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT