NBA FINALS: CLEVELAND VS GOLDEN STATE
June 4, 2017
Tyronn Lue
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Warriors - 132, Cavaliers - 113   
 Q.  When Draymond Green got in foul trouble in the third quarter, you went to Channing Frye, they then went with K.D. at center.  Did you think that was a key portion of the game, and how do you think it went from that point forward?  
COACH LUE: No, it wasn't a key.  We got Channing right out because he had a bad matchup.  They did it last year also.  So whenever we put Channing on the floor, they went small and went to the depth lineup.  So when we saw that, we had to get Chan out, and we had to make an adjustment ourself.   
 Q.  Even though this is the third time you're playing the Warriors in The Finals, it's the first time with Durant, and just can you describe how different of a matchup it is, and are you still even learn this matchup, considering it's only the fourth game you played against them with Durant?  
COACH LUE: It was different.  They give him a lot of space and a lot of room to operate.  He have Klay and Steph on the back side, and he has the ball in his hands, and the way Draymond's been shooting the basketball.  So he plays well off those guys, and they play well off of him also.  A lot of things you can't do defensively by having K.D. on the floor.  So they make it tough and they put you in some tough situations.   
But we got to be better as far as not relaxing, not falling asleep, the loose balls 50/50 balls, we got to get to those.  And when you don't get to them, they make you pay.  Every mistake you make defensively, they make you pay, and you saw that tonight.   
 Q.  Can you talk about Tristan Thompson, he last two Finals dominated a lot on the offensive glass, only has eight boards in the first two games.  Is there something that you're seeing that's different with this Finals and how you think you can get him going?  
COACH LUE: No, they're doing a good job of trying to keep him off the glass, and at times we're down and they are playing well defensively, so we decide to go smaller and kind of open the floor up and space the floor, which was good for us for about three quarters or two quarters and a half.  So nothing Tristan's done, it's just basically just trying to get more scoring on the floor, more shooting, because they try to load up and help so much.   
 Q.  Statistically, obviously, this doesn't look great moving forward, but you've doing it before, coming back last year.  Does that give you some encouragement to know that it's possible?  
COACH LUE: Well, they play well at home.  They won their first two games like they're supposed to.  Coming to a tough environment, we knew it was going to be tough, but they won the first two games.  We get a chance to go home now to our home crowd where we play well also.  So they won two games; now we got to go home and regroup.   
 Q.  What have you made of Kyrie's first two games of the series?  
COACH LUE: What do you mean?   
 Q.  He seemed to be building through the Eastern Conference Finals, playing some of his best ball of the season, and his numbers haven't looked the same.  I wanted to know how you feel how he's playing in the series so far?  
COACH LUE: Well, defensively now he has to do a lot more.  Running around with Steph and chasing Klay and chasing Steph and constantly having to be on alert, it takes a lot out of you offensively.   
But I think he's doing a good job trying to play with pace, pushing the basketball.  And scoring the basketball for Kyrie's not a big deal, so he'll get on track as far as scoring the basketball.   
 Q.  If you would point a single aspect of your game you need to improve to win Game 3, what would it be?  
COACH LUE: Defensively.  I think that having awareness, can't relax, can't fall asleep.  This team, their offense is constant movement, so you got to be locked in, you can't take a peek somewhere and lose your man, so they make you pay.  And they have a lot of guys who can shoot the basketball, have a lot of guys who are great passers, so you got to be alert at all times.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT