NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS VS CAVALIERS
May 25, 2017
Tyronn Lue
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You knew Avery Bradley well when you were here and you're close with him.  What's it like coaching against him?  
TYRONN LUE: It's tough because that was my project, and me and Avery worked together every day.  We were always teammates playing 2-on-2 and 3-on-3 against everybody else.  Just seeing him grow as a player.  He came into a situation where it was a championship-caliber team, very talented, and he had to just wait his turn.  It was tough.  I just told him, just stay with it, continue to keep working.  Bring us something that we don't have as a team, and that was the defensive intensity he could bring.  When he got in a game, just worry about picking up full court, being aggressive defensively, and the offense will take care of himself.  When Doc [Rivers] starts trusting you, you get a chance to slowly start adding pieces to your game.   
He listened to everything I said.  Each year he got better and better, got to a point where Doc was trusting him a lot.  Then he started starting, and he's never looked back from there.   
 Q.  What's it like coaching against him?  
TYRONN LUE: It's tough.  Somebody that you like so much and have a lot of respect for, just seeing him grow as a player, it's tough to coach against him.   
 Q.  You've been playing Kevin Love at the start of the second quarter now.  Can you discuss what went into that change?  
TYRONN LUE: Just to give us a post presence in the second unit, and then also give us another passer.  I think having LeBron, D-Will [Deron Williams] and Kevin on the floor to give us an additional passer when we try to run different actions is good for us.   
 Q.  The Celtics' Big Three plus Rondo, there's been some talk about Ray Allen has kind of had a falling out.  
 How important is player relationships, especially at the superstar level, and what have you seen out of the relationship between LeBron and Kyrie?   
TYRONN LUE: LeBron has been there.  Kyrie was younger.  He was just trying to teach Kyrie the way and show him the way to do things on and off the floor.  Kyrie is already a special talent.  All the other stuff -- about being a professional, taking care of your body, eating right, training -- I think LeBron has done a good job of just showing him that way.   
 Q.  You mentioned Kevin playing at the five some in the series and throughout the playoffs.  What has been the message to him defensively when he's in that particular role as opposed to power forward?  
TYRONN LUE: Just whatever our coverage is, to be able to do it, which he's been doing great at.  And then rebounding the basketball.  I thought rebounding is what hurt us with our second unit a little bit.  When we finally did get a stop, we couldn't get the rebound.  With Kevin out there, it gives us a better rebounding presence at the five.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT