NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS VS CAVALIERS
May 19, 2017
Tyronn Lue
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Brad just said that they're going to go with Gerald Green instead of Amir Johnson.  How does that affect what you guys are doing?
TYRONN LUE: Not much.  I mean, it gives them some more shooting on the floor to try to spread the floor.  Same thing it did in the Chicago series, which helped them out.  We're just trying to do a good job of taking the ball out of Isaiah's hands.  Get another shooter on the floor, you know, smart.
Q. How do you guard against overconfidence after such a strong performance in the first game?
TYRONN LUE: I mean, it's only one game.  I mean, this team was down 0-2 and came back and won a series after losing the first two on their home floor, so this team has fight.  They're going to scrap, we know that.  It was only one game.  We played well, and we've just got to come out tonight and try to duplicate that.  But no way are we getting overconfident just by winning one game.
Q. LeBron's mental capacity has just expanded.  Obviously he's the smartest player in the game.  How have you seen his mental growth in terms of knowing where everybody else is supposed to be, running the offense, his basketball IQ, how much has that grown?
TYRONN LUE: He was alright at that before I got here.  But just seeing how he makes the game so easy for everyone else and himself, so he understands the game, when to be aggressive scoring the basketball, when to get other guys involved, and he knows where to pick and choose his spots.  When you have a guy like that on your team, it makes it a lot easier for everyone.
Q. We spoke to you about Kyrie not making the all-NBA, any of the three teams.  LeBron only got 99 out of 100 All-NBA votes.  I want to see your reaction to somebody leaving him off of their First-Team ballot.
TYRONN LUE: No reaction.
Q. Shump [Iman Shumpert] said the other night even at walk-through, LeBron knows what's coming almost like before it comes.  Has he always been like a step ahead of --
TYRONN LUE: Well, we all should know that.  Shump should know that, too.  We put the game plan together and we go over the plays, we give guys videos that edit, so Shump should know that, also, but yeah, Bron is always ready and knows what step is coming.
Q. I just wanted your thoughts on Jaylen Brown, the way he played in Game 1, and obviously as a rookie playing in the Eastern Conference Finals.
TYRONN LUE: Yeah, it's very rare you see a rookie playing in the Eastern Conference Finals or any Conference Finals.  To me just seeing his growth over the year, he's gotten better and better each time we played them, and that's just from these guys developing him.  He's not scared.  He's not afraid.  That's what you like the most about young guys.  They might make some mistakes, but playing against the best player in the world, he's not scared, and you can respect that.
Q. Do you have any concerns at all about Kyrie shooting under 40, under 27 on the threes, and yet sometimes when he's struggling all of a sudden he throws 11 in a row and clinches the game and closes out a game in Toronto?
TYRONN LUE: No.  I mean, the way he's been making the right plays and the right passes offensively, we know he can score the basketball, and if he's not shooting the ball well now and we're still winning, that's a good sign, because I know eventually -- that's right.
Q. What's appealing to you for blitzing pick-and-rolls to kind of start in a frenzy off the key rather than letting the Celtics get to their action?
TYRONN LUE: Just happy to be here.
Q. Going back to Kyrie, obviously in the past, maybe he would have gotten down on himself with the shooting struggles that he's having himself; have you had conversations with Kyrie reinforcing that he's doing the right things, that he's doing the things that he needs to do for you guys even though he's not making shots?
TYRONN LUE: Yes, I have, and it's really not -- LeBron is playing at a high level, and he's really not in the flow of the game like he usually is because he's always running pick-and-rolls and the ball is always in his hands.  So to his credit, he really hasn't been in a great flow because LeBron has been playing so great.  We'll continue to work on that, and he's going to get his shots and he's going to get his attention, and he's going to make shots, so we're not worried about that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT