NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS VS CAVALIERS
May 18, 2017
Tyronn Lue
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Ty, LeBron was just saying that he actually doesn't feel as good as he does on one day's rest.  He said he didn't feel great last night as he goes for 38 points.  
TYRONN LUE: Well, it's a good sign.  I hope he starts to feel pretty good, but he always says that when he doesn't play, he feels worse.  But last night was a good start for us, and having 15 points early on to set the tone was very good for us.   
 Q.  I know you have a relationship with him, but after watching the film last night or this morning, what did you make of Isaiah's play grabbing at Kevin's ankle?  
TYRONN LUE: When he fell down?   
 Q.  Yeah, and then he appeared to --  
TYRONN LUE: I mean, it wasn't anything.  No big deal.   
 Q.  You don't take that as part of a chippiness or dirty play or anything?  
TYRONN LUE: No.   
 Q.  You had an idea coming into the series that you would get Kevin Love more looks and get him the ball a little bit more.  You know Boston is going to try to counter that, so what can you do to get that going for Game 2, knowing that they're going to try to counter what you did in Game 1?  
TYRONN LUE: Well, the luxury of our team is that we've got different pieces that we can use.  Any given night, it could be Kyrie, could be LeBron, could be Kevin, Korver, J.R., Tristan, so we just take what the defense gives us, and that's how we try to play, and whatever guys are doing, we try to ride the hot hand and everyone else will fill in.  On this team we never know who that's going to be.   
 Q.  Do you think the chippiness got out of hand a little bit last night?  
TYRONN LUE: No, I thought it was good playoff game.  I thought that we were physical.  I thought we could be a little bit more physical as a team.  But you know, when you're in the Playoffs, the Eastern Conference Finals, you're fighting for every possession, you're fighting for every inch, and it's going to get chippy and it's going to get physical.   
 Q.  There appeared to be a play down here where LeBron went to the hoop, he was fouled in mid-air, and you seemed to be upset by it.  Were you wanting them to look at that for a flagrant?  
TYRONN LUE: Yeah, I wanted -- but it wasn't as bad as I thought it was once I looked at it on tape, as in live motion.  It wasn't as bad as I thought it was.  But things happen during the course of a game, even on like defensive assignments or shots -- that was a bad shot, that was a bad defensive play, but when you watch it on film, it wasn't that bad.  No, we just move on.   
 Q.  The Celtics put at least six different defenders on LeBron, even one-on-one situations.  Is that a sign to you that they don't know the best way to go -- nobody really does, but --  
TYRONN LUE: Any time you're dealing with a great player, it's always good to try to throw different defenders, different defenses, and just try to keep him off balance.  You can't give a great player a steady diet of the same thing or they'll pick it apart.  He's pretty much seen ever defense you can probably throw at him.  No, I don't see anything wrong with that.   
 Q.  What do you think will be the biggest challenge tomorrow night for you guys, Game 2 now, with the adjustments and all that?  
TYRONN LUE: Just their home crowd, they're going to come out playing harder, more desperate.  This team has had their back against the wall before, so we know they're going to come out and perform.  It's only one game, so they'll make adjustments and come out and be ready for Game 2.   
 Q.  What type of impact has [assistant coach] Damon Jones had on your guys in terms of shooting?  
TYRONN LUE: Just his biggest thing is being on balance, taking shots on balance.  Every day he grabs LeBron, Korver, J.R., make sure those guys are getting shots up every single day, make sure their form is right, make sure they're getting their balance because LeBron takes step-back fadeaways and stuff like that, so he's really focusing on those guys just taking real shots, game shots, and being on balance.   
 Q.  J.R. said last night that he almost expects a few cheap shots or something because they're going to be so desperate in Game 2; do you expect them to sort of dial up the physicality maybe?  
TYRONN LUE: I mean, to be more physical, that's just part of the game.  But we just have to keep our composure.  We have to be more physical, also, but just keep our composure and just play through it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT