NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 13, 2016
Tyronn Lue
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Cavaliers 112, Warriors 97
Q. Coach, your plan was clearly asking Irving and LeBron to be the superstars that they are tonight.  Can you tell us about them and how they made it to 41 points each?
COACH LUE: Well, we just want them to be aggressive, continue to attack like we've been talking about all series.  And they had two great games, two breakout games.  We need those two guys to give us confidence early, and they both did that.
Everyone playing in the game, everyone on the bench stayed engaged.  We made some mistakes, but the guys never gave in.  We never quit when they made their runs.  We stuck with it after making some mistakes, and that's a tribute to the guys and just how much they wanted it.
But I'm just very excited and proud of the way we scrapped and continued to play hard.  That's how we've got to play.  That's us.
Q. How much of a difference did it make not having Draymond Green out there, and how much did it open up, do you think, for your offense?
COACH LUE: Well, he's their best defender.  I've said it all along that he is the best guy in the NBA as far as reading when to help, triple switches and kicking guys out of mismatches, knowing when to go, when not to go.  He's an underrated shot blocker, and he can guard one through five, so that definitely help hurt their defense.  But I'm just proud of the way our guys played tonight and competed.
Q. You guys had talked after Game 4 about you're flying home to Cleveland and you're taking a whole bunch of people now with you.  What do you expect when you get back there for Game 6?
COACH LUE: Same thing.  Continue to be aggressive, continue to bring physicality and continue to attack.
Q. Speaking of Kyrie in particular, just what do you think was the key for him tonight in terms of being able to get the efficiency that maybe hadn't been there earlier in the series?
COACH LUE: Just Kyrie being special.  We talked about it all series that he is one of the guys when they switch one through five and try to make us stagnant, he is one of the guys that can create his own shot, with him and LeBron on the floor.
We just took advantage of mismatches, told him to continue to stay aggressive and he had a great game for us.
Q. I know you may forget already, but what was the biggest mismatch that you guys exploited with Kyrie tonight?
COACH LUE: I forgot (laughing).
Q. I thought you would.
COACH LUE: I forgot.  I can't remember.  I've got to watch the tape.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT