NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 12, 2016
Tyronn Lue
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What do you think about Draymond's suspension in Game 5?  Will that make any difference to your game plan tomorrow?  
COACH LUE: We still have to play.  I mean, it doesn't mean anything because he's suspended.  They still have a great team, and we have to come out and play basketball.  We can't worry about the suspension.   
 Q.  You got fined too.  Any comments about that?  
COACH LUE: I'm sorry, what did you say?   
 Q.  You got fined for what you said about the refs?  
COACH LUE: No comment.   
 Q.  Coach, can you just talk about the trash talking you dealt with playing with guys like Kobe and Shaq?  What is it like in that atmosphere, and what is crossing the line?  
COACH LUE: Well, it's part of the game.  Some guys, they thrive off talking stuff on the floor.  But, I mean, a lot of things are said on the floor that are not right.  But it's just part of the game.   
I don't know what crossing the line is.  But you just play the game.  I mean, the trash talking happens.  But if you're winning the game, you should talk trash.  Do something about it.   
 Q.  Also, is this something you see lesser now during the game than, say, when you were playing, or is it still as strong as always?  
COACH LUE: It's lesser now.   
 Q.  Why?  Just because of different guys?  
COACH LUE: Yeah, different guys, new rules, taunting rules and all that. So it's a lot different nowadays.   
 Q.  The first part of the whole LeBron-Draymond thing was LeBron stepping over him, and that's being compared to obviously what happened with you in the 2001 Finals.  Do you remember how you felt when that happened to you, and can you compare it at all to how Draymond reacted the way he did?  
COACH LUE: Well, with me, I just play good defense, contested a shot, and I turned around to look at the shot and he made it and I fell and he stepped over top of me.  I didn't make a big deal of it.  After the game, of course, it was a big deal and everybody was talking about it.   
But at the end of the day we won, so that's all that matters to me.   
 Q.  You talked a lot about your team playing right.  Sometimes it comes and goes.  What do you think is the cause for them to stop playing right when they do?  
COACH LUE: Well, the way they play defense.  They're switching one through five, and you try to take advantage of mismatches.  And we don't make quick decisions, and that's when we kind of get in trouble.  We've got to make quick decisions versus the switches, versus the mismatches, and then play from there.  Once we do that, we've got to make the right play coming out of the double teams.   
 Q.  Is that also just about being aggressive with the ball?  
COACH LUE: Yeah, being aggressive.  Attacking, being aggressive, attacking the basket and, once we get there, making the right play and making the right decision.   
 Q.  I was just looking, the last few teams that were down 3-1 in the series, played on the road, they got blown out.  How do you kind of approach that with your team when the fact is, look, the odds are stacked against you, all this kind of stuff?  
COACH LUE: Just win one game.  Bring everything we've got to win one game.  I told the guys when we left, we have to come back to Cleveland anyways, so why not come back and play a game.  So we've got to give everything we've got.  Our backs are against the wall, so we've got to be prepared to win just one game.   
 Q.  I mean, players obviously know you're going to go into a hostile environments, and even I looked at how those last two games went with other teams, one, for example, with LeBron in San Antonio, it starts steamrolling against you there, and you're down 3-1.  How do you kind of stop the tide on that?  
COACH LUE: I'm sorry?   
 Q.  Basically what I'm saying is if you go on the road and you're down 3-1, you get behind early, how do you stop the tide from getting steamrolled?  
COACH LUE: You've got to call every timeout you've got.  Every time they go on a four- or five-point run without us scoring, I try to call the timeout and just stop their runs as early as possible, because we know they can go on large runs.   
So just got to try to stop the runs as best as possible, try to get a basket coming out of the timeout and get to the free-throw line.   
 Q.  Tyronn, how does Draymond Green's suspension impact your starting lineup and your rotation for Game 5?  
COACH LUE: It doesn't impact our starting lineup.  But he brings a toughness to their team.  We know that.  He's the heart and soul of their team, but we've still got to play.  His suspension doesn't make us win the game.  We've got to go out and win the game and take the game.  So it's a big suspension on their end, but we've still got to play.   
 Q.  Are you saying you're going to stick with the same lineup you used in Games 3 and 4 to start?  
COACH LUE: I don't know yet.  I'm just saying it doesn't have an impact one way or another.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT