NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 10, 2016
Tyronn Lue
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Golden State 108, Cleveland 97
Q. In the second half you had six turnovers, just four assists.  It seemed especially in the third quarter that the ball movement and the people movement kind of dried up.  There was a stretch where you had like three long jumpshots and a couple turnovers.  They almost all went the other way in transition.  Can you talk about what happened with the ball movement?
TYRONN LUE: I just thought switching one through five I didn't think we made the right plays at the right time at times and we just didn't make shots.
Q. Can you take us through the decision to bring Kevin off the bench?  Do you think that was one that you, at the end of the day, felt was the right one?
TYRONN LUE: Yeah, I felt it was the right way.  We had just won a game by 30 points.  We played well.  So I just decided to stick with RJ.  Kevin came to me after the game and just said, whatever I felt was right, coming off the bench or starting, he was all in.  So after winning the game by 30 points, I thought it was the right thing to do.
Q. Ty, everyone knows what the numbers mean when you're down 3-1 in a series like that and you have to go there twice theoretically.  What do you possibly say to your guys after a game like that, knowing that the odds are now stacked as high as they can be against you?
TYRONN LUE: If you don't think we can win, don't get on the plane.  I just think we've got to come back anyway, so we might as well come back and play.  We've got to come back to Cleveland, don't we?
Q. LeBron looked kind of out of sync.  I don't know, was it their defense?  Was he having a hard time getting in the flow?  Seven turnovers again, just wondered what you thought?
TYRONN LUE: I have to look at the film, but you'll have to ask LeBron.  I'm not sure.  I've got to look at it.
Q. Early in the fourth quarter you have a real rough patch where the Warriors go on a 12-1 run.  What were you seeing from your team during that stretch?  They missed six straight shots, a couple turnovers.  And as a follow-up to that, the fatigue.  How much did that play a factor in the fourth quarter?  You had major minutes for LeBron, Kyrie and J.R.
TYRONN LUE: It could have played a part in it.  But going into the fourth quarter, being down 2-1, we're down two points.  They brought their bench in, so I thought if we could keep our starters in for a few minutes, we could kind of make a run and then get guys out slowly.  But they were able to go on the run.  So it hurt us.
But I went with my best players in the fourth quarter, down 2-1, and it didn't work.
Q. LeBron played 45 minutes.  Have you guys discussed how many minutes he's playing and how many he thinks he can play effectively?
TYRONN LUE: No.
Q. Do you think it's something that you need to discuss with him?  Is he able to play that many minutes and still be effective at the end of games?
TYRONN LUE: Well, when it's time to win and you're in the NBA Finals you've got to play as many minutes as you need to.  If you've got to play 96 minutes, you've got to play 96 minutes.  We're trying to win.  We're in The Finals.
He could have gotten tired and it could have been fatigue, but in the NBA Finals you've got to lay it all on the line.  In nine days you can rest all summer.
Q. You spoke about how you were pleased in Game 3 with the way your team brought fight and brought physicality.  How do you feel that was a factor on both sides in tonight's game?  Do you feel it might have gotten out of hand at any point?
TYRONN LUE: I thought we competed.  I thought we played hard.  Some defensive breakdowns giving Steph and Klay some open shots.  This is the first game where they really got going tonight, and it was hard to stop them.  But I thought we played hard.  I thought we competed.  I just thought we made some defensive mistakes that cost us.  And every time we made a mistake, they made us pay.
Q. I know sometimes after games you see clips right away.  Did you see this clip where Draymond apparently punched LeBron in the groin?
TYRONN LUE: I swear I didn't see it, no.  Did he do it?
Q. I mean, I'm looking at my phone, and I think everybody can look for themselves.  But it's one to watch.  But in general, we've talked all year, or at least all Playoffs about how LeBron is officiated.  He had a couple more tonight where he got to the rim and thought he got fouled.  I guess without watching the film, what did you see there?
TYRONN LUE: He never gets calls.  I mean, he attacks.  He's one of the most -- outside of Russell Westbrook, he's one of the guys that attacks the paint every single play.  And he doesn't get a fair whistle all the time because of his strength and because of his power and guys bounce off of him.  But those are still fouls and we weren't able to get them.  But we've got to play through officiating.
Q. Coach, the game seemed to kind of turn the latter half of the third quarter heading into the fourth quarter.  Tristan Thompson was on the bench for that stretch.  With all the energy and everything that he gave you guys, I'm just curious what was behind the decision to go away from him during that stretch?
TYRONN LUE: I'm not sure.
Q. Would you make that same decision again?
TYRONN LUE: I've got to watch the film.  I mean, I'm not sure.  I'm not sure the flow of the game, what happened.  I'll watch it, and I'll let you know.
Q. Second half you're outscored 58-42.  You're up 5 at halftime.  Was it more your offense or your defense in the second half?
TYRONN LUE: I thought it was a combination of both.  Letting Steph and Klay get out in transition, getting some early threes, some missed coverages, and I just thought offensively, even in the first half, I thought we got stops but we didn't really push it.  All five guys didn't run to attack like we did in Game 3.  But I thought it was a combination of both.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT