NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 2, 2016
Tyronn Lue
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Warriors 104, Cavaliers 89   
 Q.  Coach, the game really turned, you're up 1, 68-67, they take off on a 15-0 run with their bench doing the heavy lifting.  What happened in your opinion during that stretch?  
COACH LUE: Well, I mean, we went up 3, and I thought we did a great job of fighting our way back and staying the course.  You know, in the first half we struggled a little bit offensively.  I just thought in the second half we came back in that third quarter, really got physical, really got aggressive, and we were able to take a three-point lead.   
Like you said, their bench came in and did a great job.  We took LeBron out towards the end of that third quarter, and a couple minutes in the fourth quarter, and the game kind of got away from us.   
 Q.  Coach, what did you guys do that was so effective, you think, against Thompson and Curry?  And how frustrating is it that you could hold them down like that and still not win this game?  
COACH LUE: I thought our guys did a great job of locking into those guys.  We talked about it before the game, just being aware of what we're trying to do.  And I thought we did a good job of that.  Livingston came in and had a great game.  Their bench played well.  So we've got to go back to the drawing board and try to figure out how to take those guys out of the game.   
For the most part I'm pleased with what we did defensively against Steph and Klay.  And like you said, the bench came in and did a good job for them.   
 Q.  We talk about this almost every time it doesn't work, but tonight the second and fourth quarters especially early when your guys are usually so good, they weren't.  Was there something off with rotation-wise or what did you see at those two times?  
COACH LUE: You said the end of the second, you said?   
 Q.  Start of the second.  
COACH LUE: Nothing rotation-wise.  I thought we did a good job.  We missed 28 shots in the paint.  We didn't finish around the basket, so we've just got to keep playing the same way we were playing.  I thought we were fine.  I feel good about how we played.  The outcome wasn't great for us, the score, but to get to the basket missing 28 shots in the paint, that's not us.  So we'll be better next game.   
 Q.  Can you talk about how your starting shooting guard only gets three shots and that's almost at the end of the game is when he made his first bucket?  
COACH LUE: Talk about what?   
 Q.  How that happened?  
COACH LUE: They do a good job of switching out on floppy situations or pin-downs.  With their length and their versatility defensively, they do a great job of switching out and taking away shots, kind of like we tried to do with Steph and Klay tonight.   
 Q.  Were you guys aware of that?  Were you talking about it in the huddle trying to get them to get some shots off?  
COACH LUE: Yeah, we were aware of it.   
 Q.  Can you explain what it was that Shaun Livingston did to your guys to be as effective as he was tonight?  
COACH LUE: Just his length, being 6'7" and no matter who you try to put in front of him, he's always going to be bigger at the point guard position.  So we try to keep a bigger defender on him.  But he got to the spots, to the free-throw line, 12 feet in on the baseline and got to his shot, and he hurt us with that tonight.  So we've got to continue to keep length on him and try to make it harder and be more physical with him.   
 Q.  Coach, you guys had 19, I think 19 turnovers, 25 points given up that way.  What was going on out there?  Was it just maybe the layoff or what did you see?  
COACH LUE: No, I thought we did a good job of attacking the basket and they stripped us low a lot.  I thought LeBron, Kyrie, when they got into the paint, they did a great job of stripping us low, and that hurt us.   
But we've got to do a better job of taking care of the ball, especially against a good offensive team like this.  We can't gift them points and give them points like that.  We'll be better next game.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT