NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RAPTORS v CAVALIERS
May 27, 2016
Tyronn Lue
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Pregame Interview:
Q. Based on the way you finished Game 4 in this building, how different do you expect things to be tonight, the way you handle the crowd here and the energy level from the Raptors?
TYRONN LUE: Just get off to a better start.  I think we can't get ourselves in a hole of 18 points against a good team like this, so we've got to come out ready and prepared from the jump.
Q. People that know you say that when the situation is at the most chaotic and crazy, you are at your most calm.  What is it about you that's able to channel calm and cool in a situation that just everyone else is feeling hectic and chaotic, and why is that important?
TYRONN LUE: I don't know where it comes from.  It's just how I've always been.  When you're coaching a team, if they see you erratic and you're panicking, they're going to panic, also.  So I just think by being poised and being prepared -- I think that's the biggest thing, just being prepared and being organized and knowing what I want to do.  That helps me be calm.
Q. Did you learn that from observing Doc [Rivers], Phil [Jackson] or anyone else?
TYRONN LUE: Well, Phil -- you see Doc goes crazy every possession, but definitely from Phil.  Just being calm and letting your players figure it out.  It just puts them at ease when you're able to be that way.
Q. As the rookie career of your coaching career, how important has a player like LeBron James with so much experience been for you?
TYRONN LUE: It's always great having great players.  LeBron has been very supportive along with the rest of the team.  It just means a lot.  It's my first time having a chance to coach and the first time having an opportunity, and since Day One those guys have had my back and they've been supportive.  So it means a lot.
Q. Do you consider yourself a rookie coach?
TYRONN LUE: Yes.
Q. And in knowing that, a lot of coaches don't have a team like this that go as far as you're going right now.  What are some things that you're learning or have learned over the course of the process?
TYRONN LUE: I just think the biggest thing is being prepared.  I think when you're prepared, it puts you at ease because you've pretty much been over every situation in your head.  You pretty much have been over every situation that they can do, and what works for this team.  I just think the biggest thing with being a first-time head coach, or any coach, is being prepared.
Q. Is it your team coming into this building that's not playing up to your standard or are the Raptors upping their game when they perform?
TYRONN LUE: They won 56 games this year.  They were second in the East.  They played well all season.  I know a lot of you thought it should be different, but we knew we had to take it one game at a time.  This is a hostile environment.  They play very well here, and we've just got to take it one game at a time.  We didn't figure we'd come in and sweep these guys.  Like I said, they won 56 games this year, so they're a good team, and we know that.
Q. Both you and LeBron said this morning this is like a Game 7 for your team.  Why is that?
TYRONN LUE: Just our approach.  We know it's not Game 7, but it's just our approach.  We've got to approach it the same way we did in Game 5.  We've just got to come out aggressive, have a physical mentality, and I think we'll be fine.  Continue to share the basketball and play with pace.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT