NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RAPTORS v CAVALIERS
May 23, 2016
Tyronn Lue
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How important is controlling the boards, especially the offensive boards, tonight?  
TYRONN LUE: Well, we've got to do a good job of keeping a body on [Bismack] Biyombo.  I think his physicality hurt us last game.  We might not get the rebound at your position, but you've got to box him out, keep him off the glass, and our guards have to come back and get engaged, rebound.   
 Q.  We've been talking the last couple days about the Cavs just kind of needing to do what you normally do better, but is one difference having to deal with what Toronto is doing to Kyrie?  Seemed like they were throwing two and three guys at him.  
TYRONN LUE: Yes, it's nothing we haven't seen before, we just have to do a better job of handling it.  I thought Atlanta did that in Game 3 and Game 4, and in Atlanta we handled it well.  We're prepared for that tonight, and we'll be ready.   
 Q.  Do you have a preference for how many threes your team takes?  You've been up around 40 in some games in the Playoffs and down in the 20s a couple times this series.  Is there an ideal?  Do you care?  
TYRONN LUE: No, just my preference is taking open shots, taking good shots.  If they're going to pack the paint with Kyrie and LeBron and double-team the ball with Kyrie, we have to be able to penetrate the basketball and kick it out for open threes.   
 Q.  When you have a team with emotional players like LeBron and Kevin Love and Kyrie, how important is it for you to be the coolest one in the huddle and on the court?  
TYRONN LUE: Well, those guys are All-Stars and they've been here before.  My job is to just keep them poised and to draw up plays that are going to put them in the best position.  You know, Kevin and Kyrie had a bad shooting night the other night, which is going to happen when you've been playing as well as they've been playing throughout the course of the Playoffs.  You're going to have a bad game.  So I don't have a problem with them being ready to bounce back.   
 Q.  (No microphone)?  
TYRONN LUE: Well, it all depends on the flow of the game.  [Jonas] Valanciunas is a big guy, he's physical.  He gives them a presence down low.  He's also a great offensive rebounder.  We just have to see the flow of the game and how the game is going, and that would dictate T-Mo's [Timofey Mozgov] minutes or anyone else's minutes.   
 Q.  I think Chris was asking about Jonas.  If he does go, that would put him in the starting lineup and Biyombo is coming off the bench now, how much of an adjustment is that for you and your rotation based on who starts at center for this team?  
TYRONN LUE: Piggy-backing off Chris's question, you know, Valanciunas brings a physical presence.  He brings a post presence, gives them a chance to slow the basketball down, and he can score down low.  With his presence it gives a different dynamic to their team outside of just a jump shooting team and two guards attacking.  So it's a different look for us, but we'll be ready for it.   
 Q.  LeBron said this morning that he had his own game plan for tonight.  When he comes up and says something like that, does he come to you and share what he has in mind, or do you guys go back and forth on that?  
TYRONN LUE: Yeah, we talked about it.   
 Q.  Kevin hasn't attempted more than nine shots in any of the games so far.  Is that something LeBron was doing to him?  Is that his lack of aggressiveness, and what can you do to get him back?  
TYRONN LUE: Well, I thought the first two games they did a good job of staying home with him at the three-point line.  That's why we had 106 paint points in those two games combined, and I thought in Game 3 they did a great job of just being physical with him, trying to push him off his spots because he's a great post player.  It's been tough for him in this series, but we're going to get him going and he'll be ready tonight, so look for a heavy dose of Kevin.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT