NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RAPTORS v CAVALIERS
May 23, 2016
Tyronn Lue
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Toronto - 105, Cleveland - 99   
 Q.  That LeBron [James] handoff-and-roll play that was working so well for you, did they stop it first or did you go away from it first after that fourth-quarter run that you had?  
TYRONN LUE: I don't understand.   
 Q.  The LeBron handoff at the post and roll to the basket that was so effective, whether it was him on Channing [Frye] on the weak side, you guys ran it a lot in a row and then you went away from it, but did they stop it first?  Did they find a solution for it?  
TYRONN LUE: They didn't stop it, no.  They had one stop, I think, throughout the course of that whole transition.  But we came back and tried to run something similar.  We went to the handoff and tried to go backdoor and we turned the basketball over, and it kind of seemed to get momentum going the other way.   
 Q.  Was this an example of you spending so much energy to overcome the 18-point deficit, didn't have anything left, or do you think something else contributed to the late fourth-quarter execution?  
TYRONN LUE: We could have gotten tired.  But I thought we came back, we had control of the game, up three points, and then we just made some defensive mistakes that you can't do down the stretch.  They cost us each time we made a mistake.  They made us pay.   
 Q.  You guys had two free throws in the second half.  They had 19 in the second half.  Do you think it might be useful to take a page out of Casey's playbook and complain about the refs tonight?  
TYRONN LUE: I'm not taking a page out of nobody's book.   
 Q.  You guys did such a good job on [Kyle] Lowry in Cleveland.  What has gone wrong in these two games?  
TYRONN LUE: He's made shots.  I think he's being aggressive.  He's making shots.  Tonight he got some early baskets that gave him some confidence I thought early in the first quarter, and they just carried over throughout the course of the game.   
 Q.  This has become a home type series, but what's happening with Toronto going to your building and can't get anything going, and you guys come here and Toronto eats you up first half each time?  What's going on with these two teams?  
TYRONN LUE: I don't know.  I guess it's a home-court advantage.  They have a great home crowd.  We have a great home crowd.  That crowd gives them energy, just like our crowd gives us energy.  Just got to be ready to go back home and win Game 5.   
 Q.  You talked about coming in here and hitting them, not reacting.  That was stressed over the last day or so.  What would you say happened again to start this game?  
TYRONN LUE: I thought at the start of the game, they hit us first.  I thought we still continued to react until I think late in that third quarter when we got aggressive, started blitzing the pick-and-rolls.  Just having trouble guarding at the point of entry one-on-one, attacking us one-on-one, taking the challenge defensively one-on-one.   
 Q.  Can you provide any update on Kevin Love's health?  It looked like he was limping towards the end of the third, and two, is there concern the way he played the last two games going into Game 5?  
TYRONN LUE: I'm not sure of his health.  But it's no concern.  I thought Channing came in and gave us a great lift when we were down, and like I said, like last game, just to try to put Kevin back in with four minutes to go in the fourth quarter in a hostile game, hostile environment, it's not fair to him.  Channing gave us a great lift off the bench, and we just kind of rolled with it.   
 Q.  Looking into your team's eyes after that game, the way they came all the way back, scored on 14 straight possessions and still lost, what did you see in their eyes after that game?  
TYRONN LUE: I just thought it was an opportunity.  We felt that we had an opportunity -- just talking in the locker room -- to not play well and still win that game.  Like I said, we came up short.  We had a few defensive breakdowns that you can't have down the stretch of a game, especially in the playoffs, and they executed every time we made a mistake.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT