U.S. OPEN
August 26, 1996
Aleksandra Olsza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. What was the first?
 
Q. Were you surprised at the result today and how well you played?
 
 ALEKSANDRA OLSZA: Yeah, I was surprised. I was playing, like, pretty well today. I was
really happy out there. When I heard about it, that I'm playing against Maleeva, I wasn't
that scared, I was just prepared to play. I said to myself, If I want to play professional
tennis, I have to do my best and I have to try and beat her. I can't be scared, I have to
do my best, just play. 
 
Q. Did you have a game plan against her?
 
 ALEKSANDRA OLSZA: I knew that she's, you know, running, she's finding on the court,
like hitting everything on your side. I have to finish the ball. I can't be really
nervous. I have to move her a little, then finish the ball. I've done it, so... I like her
game. I like when someone's running, hitting. And I can finish her, and she can't hurt me,
so we'll see. 
 
Q. Many players are not comfortable when they first play at the US Open. What were your
first impressions of playing here?
 
 ALEKSANDRA OLSZA: Actually, I was playing juniors last year and the year before, so I
get used to it. Actually, the first match, that's like a new experience for me. I was
playing always here. I was playing match by match better and better, so I wasn't scared or
something. I was just trying to play my best. I didn't think about that she's a Maleeva,
that she's 12th in the world. I was just trying to play, do my best. 
 
Q. How did you do in the junior tournaments here?
 
 ALEKSANDRA OLSZA: Last year I was in the quarterfinal singles and the final doubles.
The year before I was in the first round singles and quarterfinal doubles. 
 
Q. You say when you heard that you were playing Maleeva, you weren't that scared. Would
you have been scared if you would have heard you were playing somebody like Steffi Graf?
 
 ALEKSANDRA OLSZA: I don't know. I was just happy that that's not Sanchez or Davenport.
I said if I have to play with someone who is seed here. It's better to play Maleeva than
Sanchez. 
 
Q. She runs around a lot.
 
 ALEKSANDRA OLSZA: I know. I was just happy, you know that that's not someone like
Sanchez or really Steffi Graf. 
 
Q. How would you describe your game? What are your strengths on the court?
 
 ALEKSANDRA OLSZA: Actually, everything is in my legs. I'm running, and when I'm
running, everything is in. I like to play on fast courts. That's it. 
 
Q. How is your service?
 
 ALEKSANDRA OLSZA: My serve, it's getting better. I'm practicing all the time on serve.
That's for sure, that I can't have a service, I don't know, like Brenda. I'm trying. I'm
trying to get my serve better. It wasn't that bad today. 
 
Q. To save a lazy guy from looking it up, how old are you?
 
 ALEKSANDRA OLSZA: I'm 18. I'm going to be 19 in December. 
 
Q. When you win a Grand Slam tournament, albeit a junior tournament, like Wimbledon,
does that give you a different expectation about what you can achieve in a career? 
 
 ALEKSANDRA OLSZA: I was so excited over there. Everything is different now. I was a
little bit afraid. That was my last year in juniors. I had such good scores up there. I
was a little bit afraid. Now I'm improving. Every single tournament, I'm getting better
ranking. I'm still going up, so I'm happy about it. I just want to play. 
 
Q. Do you see a big difference between the junior tennis and the senior Tour?
 
 ALEKSANDRA OLSZA: You know, about money, for sure. Tennis, I think the junior players
are really good now. In a few years, it could change a lot, you know, the top players. The
top junior players could get into the top 50, and seniors just take time. 
 
Q. You won the Wimbledon juniors then, right?
 
 ALEKSANDRA OLSZA: Uh-huh, last year. 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT