COLUMBUS CREW SC MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 11, 2018
Gregg Berhalter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Red Bulls - 3, Crew - 0   
GREGG BERHALTER: They played an excellent game.  We weren't at our best tonight and when you're not at your best it's very difficult to win.  I thought that we hung in there.  The second half picked up a little bit, but overall not enough on the night.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
GREGG BERHALTER: I don't think we need to talk about that right now.  I think this team has an identity, a way to play, we've given the players belief and making players better.  And that's what we did for a long time.   
 Q.  What is next for this team?  How do they take the next step next year?  
GREGG BERHALTER: I think like any other off season, you get better.  You identify positions you want to strengthen in and you get after it.  There's already been a lot of work identifying targets, and then it's about strengthening the group.  The East is tough, you got to get better every year if you want to compete in the East.   
 Q.  When you think about what this team went through over the course of the season, how were you guys able to collectively get through that?  What was the process of steeling yourselves to that way through the season?  
GREGG BERHALTER: It's the character of the guys.  We have a strong group, we have a good group, we have guys that want to come to work every day and perform.  And that's what gets you through it.  People talk about the staff or the support staff, but in the end it's the players.  It's the players that come to work with a good mindset every day, they want to improve, they want to play the way we play, and it helps you get through difficult times.   
 Q.  What was the game plan tonight?  You had some critical battles out there.  What were you guys trying to do out there?  
GREGG BERHALTER: I think that Gyasi had a very bad shoulder injury on -- what day is it today?  Sunday.  On Wednesday in training, where he separated his shoulder pretty bad, tore all the ligaments, and we weren't sure he was even going to be able to play.  And it shows.  The guy had a season like he did for a reason because he battled and will give everything to help the team win.  And I felt like we utilized you him too much, playing too directly through him.  I felt like we never really got comfortable into our game and give Gyasi credit, he didn't stop and he kept battling on the entire game.  But I wanted us to put the ball on the ground more, switch field more and try to get him some service on crosses and when you see 14 open play crosses, three in the first half, it just wasn't enough, it wasn't enough from us.   
 Q.  You obviously had a series a few years ago against this team in this arena, you guys came in, you spoiled the party.  What's different about this year's Red Bulls team compared to that team from 2015 in your eyes?  
GREGG BERHALTER: I don't work with them so I don't know.  I know it's a good team this year and I know they played a good game on a night that they needed to play a good game.  So give them a lot of credit.   
 Q.  Can you just tell us what's next for you?  
GREGG BERHALTER: No.   
 Q.  Can I ask maybe you talk about Gyasi, the shoulder injury, was there any maybe hesitation to play him tonight going into this game you had Patrick on the bench, was there any maybe second thought about that situation up top?  
GREGG BERHALTER: Nope.   
 Q.  Did you feel any uncertainty over the team had any affect at all this season?  
GREGG BERHALTER: I think the players did an outstanding job.  It's obviously there and we're obviously dealing with something, but again, to us it became about more than that and blocking out distractions and I think the important thing about this group and I can sense by your question that you want me to make an excuse for this group.   
 Q.  No, not at all.  Just wondering --  
GREGG BERHALTER: And we're not going to do that.   
 Q.  Just wondering whether it had no affect at all or it had some affect.  
GREGG BERHALTER: I can't measure the affect it had but what I would say is that the guys stayed focused, didn't make excuses for themselves and wanted to get better and that's all you can ask from them.   
 Q.  Where do you see your team going forward in the next two to three years whether in Columbus or elsewhere?  
GREGG BERHALTER: I don't know how to answer that question.  You guys are tough today.  Seriously I don't even know how to answer that one.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT