COLUMBUS CREW SC MEDIA CONFERENCE
April 22, 2017
Gregg Berhalter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
New York Red Bulls - 2, Columbus Crew SC - 0   
 Q.  So that was a difficult game, especially when you have to make two substitutions that you don't want to in the first half.  How much did that disrupt the rhythm or the game plan, per se?  
GREGG BERHALTER: We'll never know about the first one, but I think that it's a shame in the first minute that we have to substitute Artur.  I think he was doing great so far, and we're looking forward to see how he's going to react in this game.  It's unfortunate.  He's injured pretty badly.  It's a broken wrist and it doesn't look good.   
 Q.  Your game is based on precision and rhythm, and now you've got to bring a guy in, maybe who is not getting as many reps with the first team.  Does that play a role, as well?  Is that more difficult in your system?  
GREGG BERHALTER: I think a little bit.  But you know, it was a good chance for Mohammed to show what he can do.  I think any time someone goes down, another person gets an opportunity.  So we're happy that we got to see Mohammed.   
All in all, I felt like the first 15 minutes, when the game -- when we were going to compete to see who had authority in the game, we came up short.   
 Q.  But as the game progressed, you did make some forays into their end, you had some attacking moment, but couldn't really finish it.  Is there any particular reason?  
GREGG BERHALTER: Our finishing touch wasn't there today.  We had a number of close opportunities that should have resulted in goals, and it's too bad.  But listen, on the night, they were the better team.  Let's be clear about it.  They deserved to win this game and we came up short.   
 Q.  I know you probably watched film of Red Bull coming in here, and they had some early season struggles.  Did this look like more of a complete performance based off what you've seen from film?  
GREGG BERHALTER: I think they played well.  I mean, I think they played better than we did.  You know, early on in the game, I think we had the opportunity to compete better and we didn't do so.   
 Q.  Is that at all -- kind of the first time that's happened this season, isn't it?  
GREGG BERHALTER: I think when it was physical, they were clearly playing for the second ball early in the game.  From the left channel, they put a number of balls onto our right side and we didn't do well dealing with them.  That's how the first goal came, and that's how a number of opportunities came.  And it's unfortunate because this game first and foremost is about competing.  Professional soccer is about competing, and we came up short in that area.   
 Q.  I know you gave us an update on the first injury, how about the second?  
GREGG BERHALTER: It might be an ankle strain.  I don't think it's as serious as Artur's.   
 Q.  The young players that are contributing so heavily to you and then if you look at the league, is it kind of symbolic of these young guys now getting a chance and coming up in the big moments?  Like you said, you really wanted to see Artur in a match like this.  
GREGG BERHALTER: Well, it would have been nice.  But I tell you what, this Adams kid did a good job.  He's a fearless player.  He's a pleasure to watch.  And we have some young guys also that are good, and it's nice to work with them.  They are very ambitious.  They have great attitudes, great dispositions and they want to learn and I think when you're working with them, as a coach, it's a pleasure.   
 Q.  There's been discussion over the past that MLS coaches are reluctant to go with the young guys because the result is so critical, or are these guys just through training the best players --  
GREGG BERHALTER: I think that you look for -- you look for a certain type of player to bring in, and our profile is we don't mind having younger players with potential.  We like to get them in our system.  We like to develop them and see where they can go.   
 Q.  Could Mennah (ph) travel with the team?  Can you give us an update on the situation there?  
GREGG BERHALTER: Yeah, so you know, it's tough picking an 18 every week to be honest.  You know, those are decisions that we base it largely on the opponent, who we think is going to be most effective against a certain opponent.  With Kekuta, he's a little bit behind from a fitness standpoint.  He's a guy that he's worked extremely hard and he has a great attitude.  He's going to make an impact; it's just a question of when.   
 Q.  Any thoughts on your next match yet?  I know this one just ended, New York City.  
GREGG BERHALTER: We're going to see them play tomorrow.  I'm going stick around and watch them play and see.  It's a good team.  I like that team a lot.  It's going to be a fight for the ball, who gets to keep the ball, because they want to keep it; we want to keep it.  It's going to be a fun game.  Those are always good games.   
 Q.  Markedly different from today's match, you would think.  
GREGG BERHALTER: It will be different than today's match, absolutely.   
 Q.  As a Jersey guy, what do you do when you come back home to New Jersey?  You have got a night during the season to spend time in Jersey.  
GREGG BERHALTER: It's great to be back.  I tell you what, everything is so familiar, and it's been my home for a large part of my life.  So it's great to be back.   
 Q.  Any special spots you've got to hit up when you're home?  
GREGG BERHALTER: I'll get some food --   
 Q.  Bagels, pizza?  
GREGG BERHALTER: Exactly.  I'll get some food.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT