COLUMBUS CREW SC MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 16, 2016
Gregg Berhalter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
NY Red Bulls - 3, Columbus - 2   
 Q.  Two goals in two games now, how has he been finding ways --  
GREGG BERHALTER: Well, I think it starts with his work rate.  He's a guy who is relentless.  He keeps going and then when we're able to get the ball wide, get in good positions, he ignites in the box.  He lights up and becomes active and got him a good ball today.  I'm really happy with his work rate and for him to get six goals already is really good.   
 Q.  I know obviously it's disappointing not to make a playoff appearance this year, but some of the players that you put out there today, how proud are you of them?  
GREGG BERHALTER: I told Brett, I said, listen, I had not seen in my career a guy that wants to get into the game so he calls a penalty so he can save it.   
I think he did a great job.  And listen, it's not easy to be the No. 2 goalie for three years straight and not get any, any real MLS games.  And he got that tonight, and he did a great job.  I'm happy with him.   
I think Christian Martinez, 19 years old, can play and I just feel like he did quite well.  You can see he ran out of gas but personally a player with potential and a good mind-set.  You see, he wasn't afraid.  He didn't back down, and nice to see that.   
 Q.  Has the evaluation process begun for next year already?  
GREGG BERHALTER: Oh, yeah.  Absolutely.  Absolutely.   
 Q.  I guess it's disappointing overall but what do you take away from going into next year that's a positive?  
GREGG BERHALTER: I think when you look at a guy like Christian, you see a guy who was put in this environment and like I said, he rose to the challenge.  That's his first real action starting.  I think he did quite well.   
And then for some other guys, there were some guys that we're going to have to make decisions on.  It's nice to see them play in these games and get opportunities.  And then for the entire squad, it's about seeing who is mentally strong enough to still keep fighting, even though we're out of it.  So there's a lot of different layers to it, but we are certainly able to evaluate.   
 Q.  As a former defender, how would you try to stop someone like Bradley Wright-Phillips?  
GREGG BERHALTER: He's one of my favorite strikers in the League, if not my favorite.  Great movement, great finishing.  He does everything really well.  You know, I think you need contact.  He doesn't really love contact.  I think if you're physical with him, he doesn't enjoy that.  But not many forwards do.   
But I think his timing, his runs, are really good, finishing out of the box, you name it.  He's got it all.   
 Q.  Another perfect setup to Adam -- his focus this season, how is he so effective?  
GREGG BERHALTER: Well, I think Justin has the ability to dribble at high speed and when you have that, you can really -- you can really cover a lot of space in a short amount of time, and he's able to pick his head up and find teammates.   
I've been happy with how the season has evolved for Justin.  I think he got off to a slow start.  But he's hung in there and proven that he's a difference maker.   
 Q.  The Red Bulls have had some struggles closing out games this season.  What did you learn from your team coming back?  
GREGG BERHALTER: Listen, we're not under any pressure, so for us, it's nice to be able to do that.  In a way, it's tough that Red Bull has to play against a team and keep going and keep trying to attack and keep trying to attack.  But that's the way it is.  That's the way the season has gone for us.   
I think Red Bull has a good team, though, I really do.  I think it's a strong team.  Good character of the team.  I think if everyone stays healthy, I can see them going a long way this year.   
 Q.  How much does the shorter term --  
GREGG BERHALTER: Yeah, that's the funny thing.  So we opted not to play in the FIFA window, so the FIFA window into Thursday, we had a Thursday game and we had guys in South Africa flying back from a Tuesday match.  That's part of it.  That's part of the scheduling.  It doesn't make much sense to me when you get in critical phases of the season, and we can't play at home because of the stadium hold right now.  And we're on the road and have to go on the road back-to-back with two days rest; it becomes challenging.   
I don't want to make an excuse, but it is a challenge, and the guys, you see they kept running.  They kept fighting.  They didn't give up.  I think we put a lot of effort into this game.   
 Q.  Playing NYC next week, is there any potential spoiler role for the players?  
GREGG BERHALTER: I don't know, can you spoil?  Is it settled already or no?   
Well, it's not, I didn't even check the table.  We'll do our best.  I said it before the game, that's not our focus.  Our focus is to play our game of soccer, to evaluate players and to end the season trying to keep our heads held high.  It's been a tough year for us guys, you've got to understand that.  We want to close it out with some pride.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT