NHL STANLEY CUP FINAL: BLUES VS BRUINS
May 30, 2019
Alex Pietrangelo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. How do you manage to have the resolve and resiliency to bounce back after some bad setbacks?
ALEX PIETRANGELO: I said it before:  When things aren't going our way, we talk about it, learn from it, get better.  Sometimes those aren't easy conversations to have.  It makes us better as players and as a team.
Q. How much has Chief set the tone for that, the attitude of how to respond to adversity?
ALEX PIETRANGELO: It's not always negative.  Maybe sometimes it sounds like we're being negative.  There's things you can learn from.  A lot of stuff in Game 1 was things we did to ourselves, things we could have corrected.  We did that in Game 2 and it worked for us.
Q. What was your view on Gunnarsson's goal.
ALEX PIETRANGELO: I know what the boards feel like (laughter).  I was a little bit confused where he was.  It was six-on-five.  You're just trying to find a spot to stand.  I was tired so I parked it in front.
Q. How did you end up there?
ALEX PIETRANGELO: I was in the play before when Steener drove the net.  The puck just kept going in circles.  I think at that point seemed like I was in a good spot, so I just stayed there.
Q. What do you foresee for the enthusiasm Saturday night in the rink?
ALEX PIETRANGELO: Just look at what happened last night.  They're selling the building out and we're not even there.  We're pretty excited to get back here and show the fans what we can do.
Q. When Chief said some of the penalties were overemotional or too much, when you go home, it's going to be a charged atmosphere, how do you contain the emotions and stay disciplined?
ALEX PIETRANGELO: Same thing, you have to keep your emotions in check and stayed disciplined.  Sometimes it's hard.  Happened to us the last couple games here.  Coming home here, we have to control the emotions.
Q. Was there any point in the season or Playoffs where maybe in your mind's eye you envisioned two zone Gunnarsson scoring a goal in the Stanley Cup?
ALEX PIETRANGELO: This time of the year, I heard you ask Gunny the same thing, using everybody in every situation.  Played a lot of hockey to get to this point.  Almost every team that gets to this point is playing four lines, six D.  Everyone is playing in different situations.
I think that's why you see different guys scoring at different times.
Q. How much would it hurt you guys if Sundqvist isn't available?
ALEX PIETRANGELO: A big part of our team.  Plays big minutes night in and night out.  I don't know.  See what happens today.
Q. With guys banged up, you have depth, but will it test your depth?
ALEX PIETRANGELO: Well, tested us last night and we did just fine.  We had injuries all year.  We've had guys go down, other guys have stepped up.
You want to have depth for this exact reason.  Fabbs comes in last night, played a fantastic game for us.  He jumps in as this level and played the way he did.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT