ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 1, 2011
Christie Dawes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   CHRISTIE DAWES: I wonder why sometimes you're halfway up the bridge and sometimes we go sideways. Sometimes if a hill is that steep, we have to go sideways to get up it.   
     But some of my female competitors got out there two years ago and they're straight sideways, and I thought, What are they doing? What are they doing? All of a sudden, the wind hits you and it blows you completely sideways.   
     I think probably we'll be looking to do, if it's reasonable, 1:53, and 1:56. That is a fairly reasonable time for this course.  
  
  Q. How old is your son?   
     CHRISTIE DAWES: He's nine months this week, Charlie.  
  
  Q. And how long did you take off for your maternity leave?   
     CHRISTIE DAWES: I was still in my race chair -- I lasted to about 21 weeks pregnant in my race chair. It wasn't because I just couldn't fit, it was just the heartburn got so bad that I was leaning forward and I had to get out. And I managed to maintain within reason a fair bit of fitness just through swimming and weights and hand cycling.   
     I don't know if you've ever seen a hand cycle. And the week I had him, I had about this much room before my stomach would hit the crank, so it was time. With all of those things combined. I've managed to hold to quite a bit of fitness, and I was back in my race chair three weeks and six days after I had him. Yeah, so that was good.   
     I knew coming up to London, we have to get lots of qualifiers, so I knew I had to really get on it, and get back in my chair quickly to get my fitness to do the qualifiers.  
  
  Q. So you need to have several times then leading up to qualifiers?   
     CHRISTIE DAWES: Yeah, and I'm lucky enough when he was three and a half months old, we went to Switzerland, and Switzerland has great tracks, very fast, and a lot of the girls go to them because it's sort of a central place for everybody. Not for Australians, but for everyone else it's fairly central.   
     Great tracks for girls and great weather made for some really good, fast racing. So I was able to manage to get a few qualifying times off of that.   
     Yeah, it's just getting more under my belt now, but it's nice that I can relax and enjoy it, rather than be under the pump to get the times.  
  
  Q. Do you feel as if spending the last three weeks training here, does that give you sort of a home course advantage at all?   
     CHRISTIE DAWES: I like to think so. I think I'm going to get a bit knocky when everyone runs and they're in my path. Get out.   
     Yeah, I've had a good chance to really assess the finish and the streets. Two years ago I really screwed myself because I came up there is one street beside the park, and I pulled the whole way. It looks flat, but it's really not.   
     I kind of screwed myself because I pulled the whole 3K leading into the park, and the girls just went around me. I managed to catch them, but by the finish I was spent, so that is a mistake I'm not going to make this year. I've been looking at that quite closely.   
     So I think, I don't know -- I'm going to say I do just so I can keep my head right.  
  
  Q. Australia's looking fairly strong in this year's wheelchair race between you and Kurt.   
     CHRISTIE DAWES: I don't know what Kurt's doing. Yeah, I am. I'm happy with where I'm at considering I have an infant, so I can't ask for any more that. If I finish with the pack and I'm there at the end in the spring, which is, unfortunately, the way these things usually end in the wheelchair racing, is that it's not great to do 40-odd K and have to sprint to the finish. It's kind of like you have cerebral palsy.   
     But I think I'm feeling good. So if I finish with the pack at the end, I'll be more than happy.  
     These are our friends, Nick and Alison from Australia. I try to bring a different crew over every year. I said if you're going to one run marathon in your life t has to be New York. She runs a lot more than that.  
     She just had a total fit when we went past trump tower. It was so embarrassing. It is exciting. It's exciting for us if you've never been here because you've seen places that are made so famous in movies and things like that. I saw one of the Olsen twins walking down Fifth Avenue. I don't know which one, but it was certainly one of them.   
  
  Q. What is it like juggling training now with having an infant?   
     CHRISTIE DAWES: You have to be really super organized. I think just because I train, it's no different than for any other mom who has to juggle work and a baby or anything like that. It's the same for Al.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT