AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 7, 2019
Keith Mitchell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How would you assess your round out there today?  
KEITH MITCHELL: It was great.  Started early so we got some good fresh greens on the front and took advantage of it.  Made one mistake really on number 8.  We weren't really sure how much room we had right of the flag, but tried to take it on anyway with a 6-iron, which is not smart.  So we missed it right, didn't get up-and-down, made -- actually I think we made six -- but other than that played great.  Hit some great putts that could have gone in, hit some putts that I didn't think would have that did.  So that's kind of how you have to do it out here on these poa annua greens.   
 Q.  How important was it to get off to a good start today, knowing that the weather that's kind of coming the next few days?  
KEITH MITCHELL: It's huge.  You never know what's going to happen out there, how wet it's going to play, what the conditions are really going to be like, but it's always good to get off to a good start no matter what, especially when there's some weather coming, because you're going to make some bogeys in the wind and the rain.  So you just somehow you got to keep your momentum up and on a good day on Thursday do that.   
 Q.  What are you continuing to learn as you play the PGA TOUR?  You got yourself into contention at the Sony Open earlier this year, what's kind of the learning curve of kind of being out here and trying to get yourself into the mix each and every week?  
KEITH MITCHELL: It's a lot of emotions out here.  I want to play well so bad sometimes and that's honestly adverse because your emotions get in the way instead of help you.  So just learning through those is big.  And this week with the ams, I mean it really helps you stay relaxed a little bit more, you have some different conversations down the fairway than usual with another player, another caddie.  So that's always fun and you got to embrace it.  I got some great guys to play with, the Commish, Jay Monahan and Jim Fish who did the Waste Management.  So it's really been fun.   
 Q.  Any interesting conversations with Commissioner Monahan out there?  
KEITH MITCHELL: We told a few stories, for sure, some of which were funny.  He told me some good stories, so it was fun.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT