AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 20, 2018
Keith Mitchell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Here with Keith Mitchell.  You've been putting yourself in the mix since the beginning of the week for awhile.  For you to put up your career low round today on a Sunday when J.J. Spaun just said it, kind of when all the chips are on the table, what does this mean for you?  
KEITH MITCHELL: It's a lot.  I've played some good Sundays but some of them are not great.  Just to play four solid rounds this week is huge for the confidence for the rest of season.   
 Q.  As you look forward to the rest of the season, is there anything in particular you can take from this?  
KEITH MITCHELL: Had a lot of fun out there.  I was relaxed and I had some really good buddies out this week.  We were chatting between holes.  Kind of keeping it relaxed and calm and takes your mind off of really what's going on.  It's hard to do out here you have so much at stake.  Did a great job today and had a lot of fun.   
 Q.  Keith, congratulations.  Another great week for you on the PGA TOUR.  Take us through the round because you were rolling and you getting to make that turn, I think you were maybe a couple shots off the lead as you got to make the turn.  
 What were you thinking there as you got to 9 and 10?   
KEITH MITCHELL: I was hitting the ball so nicely, we were trying to get it as close as we could, give ourselves as much chance as possible.  I knew it would be hard to catch Aaron on this golf course.  Played with him the first two rounds.  It was incredible.  Kind of stalled out a little bit on 9 through 13 but ended up finishing strong so that was a big positive.   
 Q.  I don't know how much links golf you played but obviously you like this golf course.  What did you think of this place this week?  
KEITH MITCHELL: I really enjoyed it.  There's a lot of different types or different styles of players that are at the top of the leaderboard.  That shows a lot about the golf course.  It doesn't favor any one person.  I think it's a great test.  It's a great strategy for us.  So the rain definitely made it play different today but, other than that, it was awesome.   
 Q.  You got to feel really good about your game right now as we head into the summer stretch here with you get a Top-3 again this week, more money and FedExCup Points.  
KEITH MITCHELL: It's been a grind.  This is my 6th week in a row.  We are definitely kind of gassed out there today but we used a lot of adrenaline and just so much fun out there that we -- it's hard to not play.  This summer is going to be a lot of fun, having some weight off my shoulders and play the best we can.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT