THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2018
Keith Mitchell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Good number today.  Describe the day.  
KEITH MITCHELL: Made a lot of birdies.  It was fun.  It was kind of calm this morning, so I was able to take advantage of the early holes and especially the reachable ones on the par-5s.  So still got to keep those mistakes out of play -- we hit a terrible shot on 3 which cost us a couple shots -- so try to get those out of the way.  But all in all played great today.   
 Q.  Was it a surprise to get this kind of round out here?  
KEITH MITCHELL: I don't want to say it was a surprise, I've been playing well lately.  I was surprised to be able to play, first of all, so that was more of the surprise, just to be able to tee it up.  When we did, we just tried to take advantage of our opportunity.   
 Q.  Do you expect there to be a big change tomorrow with the course setup to make it tougher?  
KEITH MITCHELL: I think it played tough today in terms of the pin locations and the rough, I just don't think they expected this little wind.  So I think a lot of guys played really well today and took advantage of the little wind.  If the wind blows tomorrow then it doesn't matter where they put the pins, it's going to play tough.   
 Q.  How did it feel teeing up on 17 out there in tournament conditions?  
KEITH MITCHELL: It was pretty cool.  There was a lot of people even yesterday, but more so today, and it was a little nervous putting my tee in the ground, I wasn't sure my ball would stay on.  But ended up hitting a good shot, so that was fun.   
 Q.  Happy with how your round turned out today?  
KEITH MITCHELL: Absolutely.  I played great today, took advantage of the opportunities I needed to, really only made one bad swing.  So out of that many shots, I'm pleased.   
 Q.  What are you going to do for tomorrow?  
KEITH MITCHELL: Same as always.  Relax this afternoon.  Maybe hit a few putts.  Go back to the hotel and wake up and try to do it again tomorrow.   
 Q.  Tiger talked about his chat with Brandon Harkins about the mentality that you might have garnered on the WEB.COM.  How does that compare to playing this course and are you still thinking birdie every hole like that or do you dial it back?  
KEITH MITCHELL: Definitely I'm more of an aggressive player and it cost me pretty big time on number 3 today.  That was the back left pin and I hit it long left and that's the one place you can't hit it.  But to make a lot of birdies you got to play aggressively and on the WEB.COM you had to shoot 20 plus under a lot of times, so you learn to play more aggressively.  So if you're hitting it well out here you can do it on the PGA TOUR, but the problem out here is your mistakes are just magnified.  So we got to be careful out here, especially on this golf course.   
 Q.  You were tied with Dustin Johnson, it said, world No. 1 Dustin Johnson and somebody named Keith Mitchell.  Do you feel at all a little bit of an underdog out here as a rookie out here for the first time or do you feel like you've got to a level where you don't feel that?  
KEITH MITCHELL: Well being a rookie and not having a win is, that's just kind of the inevitable.  I've only been on TOUR for six months, so I don't expect everybody to know who I am.  But hopefully I'm going to be out here for a while and my name will be more recognizable.  But for now I'm just trying to go about my business and the better I play the more recognition I'll get.   
 Q.  Do your goals change at all for the rest of the weekend after a big day?  
KEITH MITCHELL: No, just simply just trying to hit the best shot we can every time.  And it's so simple but it's so hard because everybody wants to win so much, this is such a big tournament, it's almost like a major to a lot of guys.  So if we start thinking that way, then we're going to be in trouble.  So we're going to try to stay patient and stay positive.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT