NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 2, 2017
Keith Mitchell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Keith, keeping yourself in position, just one back going into the final round.  I guess there was a shadow out there today with the rain.  How would you assess your game today?
KEITH MITCHELL: Yeah.  It was tough.  The wind was kind of swirling a little bit, a lot of rain, a little cold.  So the numbers were really different out there today, trying to hit some iron shots in there with different numbers, and the ball definitely was not going far off the tee.  We adjusted that a little bit.  Felt like we did a pretty good job tee to green, hit a lot of good putts and then kind of just pulled a few at the end of the round, which is pretty unfortunate.  Felt like I was really controlling my game.  We're in good position.  We're exactly where we need to be going into tomorrow, and if we keep executing tee to green like we are and make a few putts tomorrow, I think we'll have a good chance.
Q. Being in the final group last week, do you think that you'll be more comfortable this time around and is it just good to put yourself in positions like that more and more?
KEITH MITCHELL: Yeah.  It's definitely will be more comfortable than last week.  The more you do it, the easier it becomes.  I've had a fair amount of last groups this year.  Unfortunately I haven't necessarily played as well in the last group.  So I think we can just use that experience and just know that we've been there before and just keep doing exactly what we're doing and just treat it like any other round.  Tomorrow is not the end all beat all.  We still got three more tournaments after this.  So we're just going to go play our best tomorrow and whatever happens happens.
Q. Regardless of what happens tomorrow you're in a great stretch of golf right now.  Can you talk about how you've been playing?
KEITH MITCHELL: Yeah.  It's been a lot.  I've worked on my putting a lot the last couple of weeks.  I remember rooming with Stephan Jaeger in California, and he made me just do some putting drills.  He says, you gotta do this, do this, you need to work on it.  So my ball striking has been there for the latter half of the season, and I'm starting to make a lot more putts and still have room to make a lot more.  So if we can just stick to that routine, I think it's really showing, but it could show even more.
Q. Stephan Jaeger is a product of you guys playing a lot of golf together.  Did he pick up on something he thought you needed to --
KEITH MITCHELL: We work off each other.  He's one of the best putters on tour and definitely one of the best short games.  We kind of help each other with our weaknesses, and he just kind of gave me some routine to do in play.  Nothing crazy.  Just kind of made me -- just kind of like that big brother for a second and just kind of said, dude, listen, I'm not rooming with you if you complain about this.  We're going to get it done and we're going to work on it.  So good advice and it's paying off.  Still got a lot of work to do, but it's getting there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT