U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2014
M.J. Maguire
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. 67 today on the Highlands; how did you do it?MJ MAGUIRE: Just drove the ball a lot better today, so I hit a lot more fairways and played par 5s really well.  I played the par 5s 3-under, so I think that was key to play well in the scoring holes.Q. Was it a hot start?  Did you get going early?MJ MAGUIRE: No, I was actually 2-over through two.  So I was struggling early, and just tried to hang in there.  I knew that there was some birdie holes coming in, if I drove it well, I have some wedges in my hand and could reach all the par 5s.  So I played the par 5s well. And then just tried to survive on the par 3s, because those are tough out there.  They are 200-plus, most of them.Q. Where do you feel like you got jump-started and felt like you were going to do something today?MJ MAGUIRE: The eagle on 5 was big.Q. Take me through that.  What did you hit there, the distances and stuff.MJ MAGUIRE: I was 280 yards out.  Hit a 3-wood, landed about ten feet short, took one bounce, hit the pin and dropped to about three feet.  So it was a short putt. The longest birdie putt I made was here on 18.  That was 15 feet.  All the other ones were inside five feet, so they are all pretty makeable putts.Q. And you know you put yourself in position now, which is great.  Yesterday you were probably thinking, what did I do to myself.MJ MAGUIRE: And now I'm back in it, yeah.  So it feels good, and knowing that playing the Highlands the next couple days should be a fun test.  I think that course suits my game a little more than Riverside.  It's a little wider and a little longer.Q. Tough to do that at the level you guys are at where you feel like something is slipping away.  Do you feel like the mental toughness is part of what you can do?MJ MAGUIRE: Yeah, I think it helps a lot.  Just not getting down on yourself and understanding that putting added pressure on yourself doesn't really help; so you can go out there and free wheel it a little more and play your game. I think that helps to keep the mood light and not put any extra pressure on yourself.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT