CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
August 30, 2019
Ellie Slama
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Another round in the 60s, your third this week. What was the key out there today?
ELLIE SLAMA: I just putted again really well and was hitting it in the right spots on the green, which was helpful, so if was consistent to yesterday.
Q. You came out here, your first LPGA event. Where are you looking at the cut line where it might fall or were you looking at the top of the leaderboard?
ELLIE SLAMA: Pretty much neither. I was kind of just focusing on my own game. I knew if I finished well I would make the cut but there's someone at 17-under. I knew where both were but yeah, I just played my game.
Q. You didn't do any math thinking, maybe, 2-under, cut?
ELLIE SLAMA: No, I wasn't sure. I saw the leaderboards out there, but I was just kind of focusing on keeping myself around 7- or 8-under and yeah.
Q. You got a good start again?
ELLIE SLAMA: Yeah, I did. I like that No. 10. It's a good starting hole.
Q. Tell me about the first few birdies.
ELLIE SLAMA: Yeah, the first one I hit pretty close. Just was putting well again, so they were easy birdie holes, but yeah, I was consistent with my wedges and it's nice to have those into par 5s and stuff.
Q. Do you feel good from playing here? Do you think that's distances or whatever club you need?
ELLIE SLAMA: Yeah, pretty much. It's a comfortable course for me. Feels a lot like home because it is, so yeah.
Q. How was today compared to yesterday? A little more up-and-down but still good?
ELLIE SLAMA: It was a little bit more -- the front nine, I guess, was a little bit less low than the last couple rounds here, but similar game. Similar spots on all the holes and just giving myself a birdie opportunities on most of them.
Q. Pretty high up there, some big names. What do you think of that?
ELLIE SLAMA: It's exciting. I'm super excited to be in the mix.
Q. How comfortable do you feel around those type of players, some of the world's best players?
ELLIE SLAMA: I won't know how comfortable I am until I meet them and play with them. It's a different feeling because I've never played in an LPGA event of this calibre, so yeah, I'm excited to see how it goes.
Q. Is there any one player in the field that you would loved to be paired with?
ELLIE SLAMA: I would love to play with Brooke just because he's done so well here and she's played here as an amateur, but we'll see.
Q. Tomorrow, you're more in the spotlight. Maybe play with a big name, or who knows.
ELLIE SLAMA: I'm just going to treat it the same way. Just going to treat it the same way and go out there and have a good time and have fun.
Q. Your parents are out here again? Now are your team going to come? Do you know roughly how many will come?
ELLIE SLAMA: Six besides me, so hopefully all six of them will be there.
Q. What's the plan tonight? Where are you going to stay?
ELLIE SLAMA: That's a great question. I have no idea. Depends on my tee time tomorrow.
Q. Making your caddie work. Gets some extra money.
ELLIE SLAMA: 100 percent of what I make.
Q. Safe to say you're not going to make the game tonight?
ELLIE SLAMA: Probably not. I was thinking about it, if I didn't make the cut, but it's at 7:30, and I know we're going to lose, so it's okay. I'll watch on TV. First half, maybe.
Q. Maybe they will be inspired by you?
ELLIE SLAMA: Maybe. We'll see.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT