MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 23, 2017
Albert Ramos-Vinolas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
R. NADAL/A. Ramos-Vinolas   
6-1, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  No way?  Nothing to do today?  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: Yeah, well, probably nothing to do, no?  I think that he was a little bit better in everything.  When he's a little bit better in everything, the difference after, it's what we saw in the match.   
I think also I didn't serve good.  To be honest, I think he served really good today.  Last time I played against him, I felt that on the return it was my chance to put some pressure.  But today I felt that he was serving so good.   
 Q.  Seems to be a little bit bad in the second set.  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: Yeah, it's not easy to play a final, to play against Rafa Nadal, to play with no sun today.  I think he's a little bit better in everything.  He has a little bit more power than me in the game.  Also I think the cloud today didn't help me.   
Obviously I think that with sun, probably I was losing also, but maybe it was a little bit different.  I don't know.  But today, to play a final against him, it's not easy.   
 Q.  You played twice against him before.  Do you see any differences in the way he plays?  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: I'm not inside him.  But I think he's playing really good.  Not his best tennis, but he's probably in a good level.  He beat some matches easy, not just the final.  It means that he's playing good.   
I played three matches in a row three sets.  I was probably a little bit tired.  If I'm not in my hundred percent of my physical condition, it's impossible to compete against a player who plays with this kind of rhythm.   
 Q.  You'll come away from Monte-Carlo with nice feelings?  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: Obviously, no?  Nobody likes to lose.  Nobody likes to play a final and to lose 6-1, 6-3.   
But I know how it is, no?  I know that I have another tournament.  I have to keep going.  I will try to have my feedback with the good things that I did this week.   
Obviously it is the week that I did my best result.  Not today, but maybe tomorrow I will be proud of myself, and I will restart again for the next tournament.   
 Q.  It was a very positive week.  Zeljko Franulovic said this morning you were the real surprise of the tournament.  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: Yeah, it's true.  But, you know, tennis it's like this.  You have some days things you didn't expect, then you come back to the reality.  Today he put me back to my reality.   
Now I have to do - how you say in English - a summary of all the week, keep with the good things that I did, try to improve the things that I can improve.   
 Q.  You had a very nice tournament, so do you think you can stay at this level?  What are the things you have to work on to better yourself?  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: That's what I have to do during today and tomorrow, the summary, to know exactly what I did good and what can I improve.   
For sure everybody, not just me, can improve lot of things.  I cannot tell you exactly what to improve now.  I can tell you today I didn't serve good.  Obviously my serve is not my best shot, but I think I served a little bit in the less condition than normally.   
Now I have to think what can I improve, what I'm keep doing good to improve on this way.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT