MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 22, 2017
Albert Ramos-Vinolas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. RAMOS-VINOLAS/L. Pouille   
6-3, 5-7, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Can you tell us how important for you is eventually to play Goffin instead of Nadal?  For a Spanish player to play Nadal, it's normally different.  Verdasco made only one game when he played here the final.  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: That's true.  To play Rafa, you never know.  If he plays unbelievable, he's going to beat you like he beat Verdasco.   
In this moment, they are playing, so I prefer to wait until they finish.  After I will start to think against who I play.   
It's a question, but I think I have no answer because I prefer to wait till the match is finish because I don't want to spend energy in something that it doesn't matter.   
I'm not playing there.  So they will play.  One is going to win, the other one is going to lose, and I will play the winner.   
I'm not thinking about who I prefer and who I don't prefer because I cannot change nothing.   
 Q.  How do you explain you have reached the peak of your career at this time now?  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: It's a good question also (smiling).   
I don't know.  As I said before, there are lot of things, no?  We can say maybe I improve a little bit my tennis, my backhand a little bit.  I improve my physical condition.  I improve a little bit my mental condition.  I also have more confidence.   
I don't know.  I think there are a lot of things that are going better.  It makes me to better results than before.   
 Q.  What was the key for your success today against Lucas?  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: I think that I accept during all the match that he's a great player.  He can do lot of winners.  He's playing more aggressive than me.  His game is, like, more varied than my game.  I accept it.  I was trying to play every point as the other days.   
I don't know why, but I think I played a really good third set.   
 Q.  Do you think being in the quarterfinals of Roland Garros changed anything in your mind?  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: For sure.  As I said before, I think for sure it was more confidence.  It's impossible to negate it.  I think since one year, since Roland Garros maybe, I'm playing better.  After I won a tournament on clay court.  In South America I did a final, two semifinals, one quarterfinal.  Last week also quarterfinal.  Here a final.  The results are going better.   
I think everything started in Roland Garros.   
 Q.  For you being a left-hander, is it more difficult to play a left-hander or a right-hander?  Doesn't make any difference?  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: Well, I prefer to play against right-hander.  But I don't know who's going to win (laughter).   
I think all the lefties prefer to play against right-hander because we used to play against them, not lefties.  There are less lefties in the tour.   
 Q.  How is your record against the left-handers?  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: I don't know.  Sorry.  I know that I lost two times against Rafa, but I don't know, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT