MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 21, 2017
Albert Ramos-Vinolas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. RAMOS-VINOLAS/M. Cilic   
6-2, 6-7, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  I don't know a lot about you.  I was surprised, looking at your results, it looks like you did a great improvement here in Monte-Carlo.  I don't know if there is a good personal reason, perhaps intimate reason.  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: I cannot explain (smiling).  No, I'm joking.   
I don't know.  To be honest, I think that I'm playing good.  I'm competing very good.  But I cannot tell you exactly what's happen.   
I think I played a good tournaments in South America in February on clay.  Here I'm playing really good, competing all the points.  I cannot really tell you what happen.   
 Q.  Does it help to play on clay?  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: For sure, obviously.  But I hope to keep on this way for a long time.  If it's possible, to keep improving some things that I can improve.  Why not to play like this, and to play also this way on the hard court and grass.   
 Q.  Today, like yesterday, it was a match with ups and downs.  How did you find the key today?  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: Well, today I think it was different because I was leading a set and serving for the match at 5-4.  I was playing very consistent during all the time.   
But I think in the 5-4, he played an amazing game on the return.  Also in the tiebreak, I was leading 5-3, and I think he played four points incredible.  I think I played a great tiebreak, and he played really good.  I don't know if it was lucky or not during the four last points in the tiebreak.   
He started also really good in the third set.  But I think I keep playing.  Maybe he was a little bit tired, I don't know.  Then the third set, I played really good.   
 Q.  What do you think about your next match, the semifinal?  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: I don't know against who I play yet.  Obviously, into the semifinal.  Anything can happen, no?   
If I play Pouille, I know him.  I know both really good.  Lucas, it's a young player coming very strong.  It will be super difficult.   
If I play against Cuevas, obviously will be the same because he beat me few matches.  He beat me in the final in Sao Paulo this year.  I know him, how he can play.   
It will be difficult match.  If I play on the same way than today, for sure I will have my chances.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT