ROLAND GARROS
June 1, 2016
Albert Ramos-Vinolas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. WAWRINKA/A. Ramos-Vinolas   
6-2, 6-1, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Spanish.   
 Q.  I suppose that you felt that he was a bit of a hurricane on the court.  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: Yeah.  Hello.  Well, frankly, I'm not very happy.  I hope that afterwards I'll be quite satisfied with what I've done during the tournament and that I'll play even better in the future.   
It's true that he knew how to play against me.  I could have done better during the first two sets.  You know, during the first game there were two break points, and during the second game it was difficult, as well, for me.   
I think that my level of tennis has decreased and he was more powerful than me.  It took me time to react, and that's what really happened during the first two sets.   
 Q.  I don't know if you could tell us more perhaps about the conditions.  The other players said that today the conditions are better than yesterday.  What would you say about this?  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: Well, I didn't play yesterday, you know, so I can't say anything about that.  I can't compare both days, but I said that when I played against Raonic the conditions were good for me because his serve was slower.  Maybe today it was the other way around.   
Well, you know, Wawrinka is so powerful; you can't say that the balls are slow with him.  Yet today it was more slippery on the court, and therefore, it's difficult to have good balance on the court.   
But the conditions are the same for everybody.  That's life sometimes.  It's good for you; sometimes it's not good for you.  That's the way it is.   
 Q.  I know it's a bit early perhaps to say, but I think you're the only Spanish player that has reached the quarterfinals.  Soon I suppose you'll realize that this tournament was good for you.  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: Well, yes.  You know, when you lose a match you're disappointed, of course.  I thought I could have done better than that, but then I played a good tournament.  I could have been very happy -- well, I am in a certain way -- and this gives me reason to work, to move forward, and to improve my game.   
I hope that soon I'll be able to celebrate this tournament and also work on the next tournament, and I'll be much more motivated.   
 Q.  I think that you're going to go to the Rio Olympic Games.  What do you think about this?  What do you think as well about the Zika virus?  Some players have decided not to go.  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: Who's decided not to go?   
 Q.  Isner, Feliciano.  Well, not just for Zika.  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: Well, I'm very happy to go to Rio.  It's a unique and fantastic opportunity.  I'm very happy to go there.  I was in Rio in February, and I didn't see any problems at all where we were.   
I had the impression that there was no problem, but I'll discuss this with the Federation.  I will listen to their recommendations.  Otherwise I'm very happy to go there.  I'm sorry about other players who were getting closer, they were about to go to Rio, but then the decision was made recently.   
I was chosen, and I'll do my best.   
 Q.  A while ago Ferrer criticized the tournament very much, the organization, and how the rain intervals were managed.  What would you say about this?  What would you say about the Roland Garros organization, that is, thinking about the rain?  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: Well, today it didn't rain so we had to play tennis, didn't we?  Well, the court was not perhaps the best one, I mean, in terms of its condition, but the courts are always covered.  There's tarps on them.  They were not that difficult to play on.  It was a bit slippery due to some type of mud, but given the weather conditions, that's normal.  That's something that happens everywhere.   
So, yeah, maybe yesterday was a bit more dangerous, but today no, not really.  Not the court.  The balls were very damp, that's true, and that's very tough on your shoulders, your elbows, your wrists.   
 Q.  I was talking about the moments when the players had to stop.  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: What are you talking about?   
 Q.  The scheduling that was changed several times.  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: In my case, not many things changed.  It's only yesterday's match that I should have played yesterday that I played today, which is quite normal.  That is, we have reached round of -- well, round of 16 should be played before the quarterfinals.  That's normal.   
If you look at the other side of the draw, that's true.  They will have to play back to back, consecutive days.  I think that this happened already in New York, you know, the tournament when Ferrer reached the finals.  But, you know, if it's raining and the courts are not covered, what else can you do?   
 Q.  Well, at Mataro there will be a celebration, a party, because you were not present for the birthday celebrations.  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: I don't know.  It's too early to say, but maybe this weekend we're going to celebrate.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT