ROLAND GARROS
May 29, 2016
Albert Ramos-Vinolas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. RAMOS-VINOLAS/M. Raonic   
6-2, 6-4, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  You said on the court you lost the last four years in the first round and now you're in the quarterfinals.  How does it feel?  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: Well, difficult to explain how I feel.  It's a lot of emotions.  I'm very, very happy.   
As I said, I lost I think four times in a row first round, and this year, quarterfinals for the moment.  So I'm really, really happy.   
I think I played a very good match, very smart match.  I'm very happy.   
 Q.  What do you think you were doing right against Milos?  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: I think I returned very good.  The second serve, when he was serving the second serve, I returned very, very good.  I played very smart all the match.   
I think I play good, every ball with reason, and that's why I'm very happy, because it's not easy to play here against Raonic.  Maybe the day help me a little bit.   
But anyway, he's very good player, and I think it's a very good victory for me.   
 Q.  Coming into the tournament, were you doing anything differently or did you come in with confidence thinking you could make it this far?  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: Not really.  I have been working since long time ago very hard, trying to find the way to win more matches.  I think this year here I'm saying that maybe the work I did -- I don't know.  It's difficult to say since when, but the work I did, it's working on now.   
It's like a present for me, because, to be honest, I didn't expect this one when I arrive here.  Last week I lost to Wawrinka 6-1, 6-1 in Geneva.  I was a little bit down.  This is tennis.  And now I feel great.   
 Q.  I read in your ATP bio that you are studying business administration online.  Are you still doing that or did you finish that?  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: No, I'm not still doing this.  I did one year in university, but now I cannot do everything.  I hope maybe when I finish the career I will do again.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Spanish.   
 Q.  I suppose you're hugely happy.  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: Yes, I'm very happy.  I didn't expect this, as I was just trying to say in English.  After losing last week 6-1, 6-1 against Wawrinka, I was a little bit down, because I was expecting a little more in Geneva last week.   
But I continued to move on in the best way.  I need to try to improve in an ongoing manner, even if it's difficult.  Even if I try, sometimes you don't improve but sometimes it works.   
I don't know why this week things seem to be falling into place, and I hope I will be continuing in that way.   
 Q.  Were you surprised by the level of tennis?  I had the impression that you were quite cool about it.  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: It's an impression.  I may have won only in three sets, but the matches are much tougher than they look, especially after 40-15, a break, it was very tough.   
But I managed to keep my cool throughout.  Then I think the weather also helped, because it slowed down its service a bit, allowing me to send the ball back.   
So I was competitive.  The match went well.  I think the main games I was there.   
 Q.  When you won with the last slice shot, what did you have in your mind?  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: On the moment, not much.  I was really highly focused on finishing the game.  We were at 40-15, and then 40-All, and then an ace.  I was very, very focused.  I really had to win that point.   
Although this is not Raonic's favorite surface, I feel quite humbled to have won against him.   
 Q.  You were one of the brave men who went to Vancouver with Corretja.  So plays pretty cool, right?  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: Yes, I was very fortunate to go and play the Davis Cup.  Alex called me and Arenes [phonetic].  It was a pretty complicated court, and all of us over there tried to give our best.   
We didn't all win but we gave it everything we had.   
Today was a totally different match.  The conditions were very different.  I think I managed to pick up every opportunity.  It's not a vengeance in any way, though.   
 Q.  Garbiñe described you earlier as someone simple, fun, nice.  How would you describe yourself, your leisure pursuits and so on?  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: Well, if Garbiñe says so, I like to be at home in Mataro.  I like to be with my mates, my girlfriend.  I like to watch football on TV.  Nothing weird, nothing special.  I'm a normal guy.   
 Q.  Wawrinka, how are you going to go into that match after the defeat in Geneva?  You have more confidence now perhaps?  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: Well, he needs to finish this match.  It's still ongoing, isn't it?   
But whoever wins, in any case, it will be a very tough match.  If Troicki wins, it will be a very important match.  We haven't played against each other for more than a year.  He's a very physical opponent, a very dynamic.   
If Wawrinka wins, on the other hand, he's the titleholder.  He's hugely powerful.   
Last week I played him, and he won very easily.  I think it's a match where he played really well.  He didn't leave any opportunity for me to play my tennis.   
But this is another tournament.  It's another opportunity for me to fight.  It's going to be very difficult to say.  If it's Wawrinka, of course he's a favorite.  But I am going to trying to win.   
 Q.  In France it's Mother's Day today.  Did your dad forgive you for not being there for his birthday?  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: Yes, it was his birthday yesterday.  He sent me videos and messages.  Unfortunately I wasn't there.  But, you know, it was worth being here.   
 Q.  You have just won.  You're now in the French Open quarterfinals.  Potentially there is a chance for the Olympics.  What is your expectation for the future?  This is a big change for you, isn't it?  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: We need to take things step by step.  Marcel is a great player.  He's a good friend.  I hope he's going to go as far as possible.   
When the tournament is over, we'll see who goes to the Olympics and who doesn't.  It's true I would like to go, but I would also like to have the opportunity to just enjoy this win and not think about the Olympics just yet.   
For your second question, I'm going to continue to try to improve my game play and if it works I will be really happy.  Otherwise I'll just have to go on working.   
My expectations are the same as before I came here.  I believe this is quite an outstanding result.  I don't expect it to happen every time, but I am going to try to obtain good results in this tournament and in the following tournaments.  If the results don't come, I will just practice and train more.   
 Q.  For you, heavy balls or light balls, does it make a difference?  Do you prefer heavy balls in view of the weather?  
ALBERT RAMOS-VINOLAS: It's hard to say.  It depends who you're playing against.  I do like to play in Madrid, because there is the altitude.  I like to play in Barcelona, although there is no altitude.   
I like it better when it's sunny, but I need to adapt.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT