SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 13, 2015
Albert Ramos-Vinolas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RAMOS‑VINOLAS/R. Federer
  7‑6, 2‑6, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. What do you think worked in your favor in this match today against somebody like Federer? 
ALBERT RAMOS‑VINOLAS: Well, I'm really happy to beat Roger Federer. I think it's my first top 10, so I'm really happy. 
I didn't expect during the match. After second set I thought it will be like always: I will lose. But I play really good. I was very solid with the serve in the third set. I am very happy because it's the most important victory for me. 

Q. It's obviously a big win. Your stats are less perfect than the results. What were the key points that helped you make the win?
ALBERT RAMOS‑VINOLAS: I don't know. Maybe I think that the first set was very good today, and I played the first set good forehands. It was what helped me be in the match during all the match. When I was returning, he was very, very solid. I think he was winning easy the games that he serves. 
I think the key was that I was serving good. It was what makes me win the match during all the match. 

Q. Did you go into the match thinking that you could win? You played Federer once before at Wimbledon, and you won only three games. 
ALBERT RAMOS‑VINOLAS: Before the match I thought I'm not going to win. But when I saw that I was playing, was not same than Wimbledon. In Wimbledon I felt very bad on court with the slice. Was my first Wimbledon. I didn't feel comfortable during the match. 
But here, when I saw that we were very, very similar during the first set, I thought, Okay, maybe I can do a good match. 
But after second set, I thought was not possible because he was serving so good. He was winning very easy the games of his serve. 
But then I was playing, and I continue. At the end after the break, I thought, Okay, maybe I can do it. Let's try to be concentrate. I won the match. 

Q. Our friend from Barcelona was giving us some background about you. He told us about a month ago you won the Catalonia championships. Talk about how different that is to playing against Roger Federer?
ALBERT RAMOS‑VINOLAS: It's very different. I played the tournament because Catalan Federation asked me to play. I was at home, resting at home. Was close to my house. I played the tournament just like a practice. 
I think I cannot compare with this match today.

Q. What ranked players were you playing against? Did they have rankings?
ALBERT RAMOS‑VINOLAS: I played the final against Mark Fornay (phonetic). I don't know the ranking, but he's playing futures. 

Q. All the fans cheered loudly for Roger when he got a point. How did you overcome that?
ALBERT RAMOS‑VINOLAS: I think it's normal. I think he's maybe the best of the history now in this moment. I think it's normal. I didn't have nothing to say about it. If I was in the crowd, I think will did the same because it's very good player. When I see him playing, I enjoy a lot. 

Q. What did Roger say to you at the end? 
ALBERT RAMOS‑VINOLAS: I didn't remember, to be honest. I think something like, Good match, good luck. I don't remember. 

Q. Have you switched your phone on since the match? Have you had many text messages?
ALBERT RAMOS‑VINOLAS: I just spoke with my girlfriend, my father, my mother, my fitness coach, my other coach who is traveling when Jose is not coming. Now at night I will try to answer all the message. 

Q. Were they all watching on television? Were any of them here, your family?
ALBERT RAMOS‑VINOLAS: Yeah, for sure. My father, my mother. My father was working. He stopped to work because he was very nervous. My mother was also at home running around the home alone. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT