AMERICAN CENTURY CELEBRITY GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2003
Dick Anderson
Steve Bartkowski
Brett Hull
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 PHIL WEIDINGER:   27 for Steve Bartkowski, 25 for Brett and for Dick Anderson.  Why don't we start with some comments about your play today.
BRETT HULL:  I started on the back and actually started out with a bogey on 10, and went bogey, birdie, bogey, birdie, and then made another birdie on 16 and eagled 18. 
So my first side went well and then kind of generic on the other side, a lot of pars.  A lot of chances, but they just wouldn't fall.
PHIL WEIDINGER:  A lot of short putts? 
BRETT HULL:  Not short putts.  But 15, 17 feet that just rolled by the edge or left the old six inches short. 
STEVE BARTKOWSKI:  I also started on the back.  Really, knocked it in there about five feet, six feet on No. 10, and I was thinking, "Boy, here we go, it's going to be a good day."  I missed that one.  (Laughs).  Then I made one about 25 feet downhill on 11 and I bogeyed 12. 
Then just, really, I hit a lot of good iron shots today.  Gave myself a lot of chances.  Really shot 68, but I left probably three or four strokes out there.  I had, you know, two or three five-foot putts that I missed, just didn't even sniff the hole.  It's the hardest place in the world to make putts.  I don't care who you are; it is a hard place to make putts.  I'm just thankful that it's the best round I've ever shot here.
PHIL WEIDINGER:  And Dick, past champion. 
DICK ANDERSON:   I started off and hit a good drive on 1 but got in the trap and almost got it to the green and 3-putted.  So I started off with a bogey, as well, and hung in there.  Then knocked it on in two and two shots on No. 3.  Got a birdie there to get started. 
Actually missed a short birdie putt on 5 with the par  3 about four feet downhill. 
Hit a good shot on 7. 
Birdied 8 and 9 which are always wonderful to survive on, and hit a driver on 10 and a wedge in, which was pretty good. 
Then 3-putted 11, so that wasn't too good. 
Hit it in the trap on 12 and got up-and-down for par, which was a great par.  That's the one that when I was leading, I left it in the trap three times and lost by two shots.  I was thinking about that when I was in the trap today.  (Laughing).
Then just played solid.  Parred all of the holes on the way in.  Had an opportunity to knock it on in two on 16 and didn't hit it very good, hit it in front of the green and hit a bad chip.  Didn't par that. 
I pushed my drive on 18 over in the trees, and usually I do well out of the trees on 18, but I didn't even have a shot.  So I hit two wedges, sand wedges to get to the hole and almost made my putt for birdie. 
But the Stableford is interesting, Steve shoots 68 and I shoot 72, and I have one double which hurt.  I left it in the trap on 7, but with the birdies, you can pick up some points.  So 18 pars in a row would be a 72 and that would be 18 points, and I got 21 points.  So, you know, a couple extra birdies certainly helps in the system. 
STEVE BARTKOWSKI:  The old man hits it a long way. 

Q.  How does it feel, as far as the first year that you've been going out in the Stableford after chasing strokes and par for 13 years out here, what was the thought process out there during the round when you were playing Stableford, did you have a feel for where you might be? 
STEVE BARTKOWSKI:  I really don't.  That's the intriguing thing about the Stableford is that you can make up a lot of ground in a hurry.  I saw that 6 go up on the board with the young fella here and I said, man  --
BRETT HULL:  Young fella?  Thank you. 
STEVE BARTKOWSKI:   Comparables.  We're doing comparables here. 
DICK ANDERSON:  You had 20 points on the first nine.  18 is not too bad through nine.
STEVE BARTKOWSKI:  I didn't play any different than if it was stroke-play.  Some guys, maybe they will, but me, I won't.  This golf course, it's just a demanding golf course for me.  I didn't play the par 5s very well.  I kind of played them like I do in stroke-play.  I didn't hit a good drive on them.  I hit a good drive on 18.  I hit wedge in there. 
BRETT HULL:  Same thing.  I just played like a regular round.  I figured that the more aggressive you get, the more chances there are for horrendous errors.  And when you play your own game, you're ready to hit those shots that you hit every day when you play. 
DICK ANDERSON:  I think it speeds up play with the players that get in trouble.  It eliminates triples and quadruples, and 8s, 9s 10s for the players that can get in real trouble.  So from that standpoint, it appears that they can move ahead faster. 
But I think at the end of the three days, you're going to see that there's varying scores greater than in stroke-play.  It will be interesting to see for those rounds. 
I think they did an analysis of the scores last year where they would be and I think the same people that won would have won under this system, as well.
PHIL WEIDINGER:  It was in the Top-10, there was one place that switched and that was 6 and 7 or 7 and 8.  Other than that, it was the same. 
STEVE BARTKOWSKI:  It's still golf. 
DICK ANDERSON:  You still have to make the putts.  The nice thing about it is you make a good putt for birdie and it gets you a little bit ahead, which is kind of fun. 
STEVE BARTKOWSKI:  A little house money. 
DICK ANDERSON:  If you're real consistent making a lot of pars and no birdies, you're sitting there saying, "I played pretty well, didn't make a putt," and you can end up with 15 or 16 points.  That's the interesting part. 

Q.  Do you guys think it would be good for the tournament to have somebody other than Rhoden or Quinn win it this year? 
DICK ANDERSON:  Absolutely.  One of the three of us.  (Laughter.)
STEVE BARTKOWSKI:  I'm not sure that the system is going to favor anybody else other than those guys.  Those guys are just the best players.  They win because they are the best players. 
BRETT HULL:  That's who you want to win.  That's who we are trying to beat. 
STEVE BARTKOWSKI:  That's the way it's supposed to be.  Somebody has to set the bar. 

Q.  Somebody asked earlier why the quarterbacks are doing so well is because they are the best overall athletes. 
STEVE BARTKOWSKI:  Way to blow the whistle on me.  If we got a beach volleyball game out, there they would win that, too. 
DICK ANDERSON:  They just run around and throw the ball.  They are good athletes, may not be able to throw a ball, but you have to do other things.
STEVE BARTKOWSKI:  In 12 years I hit the guys as hard as I could in the chest with my helmet. 
DICK ANDERSON:   I think pitchers and quarterbacks, because really, they have a touch, that they really have to know what it is, I think that can be helpful in golf, is a touch on wedges and putting and things. 
So I think the athletes that really stress accuracy  -- hockey players, as well.  They are always flapping it and they have to get it in the net. 
STEVE BARTKOWSKI:  What these guys do on blades, just pretty incredible.  When you stand flat-footed with golf spikes on and have incredible balance on ice, you put them out here, they ought to be the best, they really should be. 
BRETT HULL:  Except from the neck up.  The neck up, we're a little bit behind everyone with the temperament.  (Laughter.)

Q.  Brett, you mentioned a little bit earlier that you think the rounds are going to be played pretty much the way you always would in stroke-play.  Come Sunday if you're in the hunt, is that going to change a little bit, do you think? 
BRETT HULL:  I'm not worried about Sunday.  I'm just really happy.  This is also the best, not only the best score I've had, but it's the best I've hit it out here in  -- I think this is my 10th year.  I'm just happy with today's round, and get my caddie to grab me by the arms tonight sometime out of the casino and get some more rest.  I had a great night's sleep last night and that always helps. 

Q.  What did you shoot, really? 
BRETT HULL:  I believe it was 70.  I'm not exactly sure.  Somewhere around there. 

Q.  Do you guys think there's a number to beat, does 75 do it? 
STEVE BARTKOWSKI:  I'd take 75. 
BRETT HULL:  I'll take 76 then.  (Laughter.)
STEVE BARTKOWSKI:  It's so hard to figure, it really is.  If the wind gets up, which it didn't today, it historically does at two o'clock.
DICK ANDERSON:  I was hoping going off at 8:30 that by the time I got around, the wind would start blowing and the guys coming in would have to fight it. 
STEVE BARTKOWSKI:  I was thinking the same thing. 
DICK ANDERSON:  But it didn't happen. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT