LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 23, 2003
Meg Mallon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.  You finished up really hot on your back-nine.
MEG MALLON: Yeah.  I bogeyed 18 with probably a 5-footer, which I wasn't happy about, but I came around and made the turn and knew there was a couple birdie holes out there.  My goal was actually to shoot 4 under on my bad side, and I actually ended up shooting 6 under, which is a nice bonus.  I started hitting it close and made some really good putts.  Those are key to having a low round like that.  It was nice to take advantage of it and see the ball go in the hole.

Q.  The forecast calls for rain tomorrow.  How does that change things this weekend?
MEG MALLON: It's probably in the back of my mind.  I think a few people are thinking about it knowing that we really need to get good rounds in, especially if it starts raining like that.  So, it could become more like a slow march and not quite a birdiefest, and it's probably a little more of an advantage to be in the lead or close to it going into the weekend.

Q.  Considering today's forecast for showers in the afternoon, are you relieved to be done early?
MEG MALLON: I felt good about my swing.  You know, your swing evens out throughout the year, I've always said.  I was very happy to get this early swing because it sounds like the rain is coming in this afternoon.

Q.  How do rain delays affect you?
MEG MALLON: Well, hopefully I have been out here long enough and my experience will help me in those situations, and knowing that you have to pace yourself when the days get long like that, but you also can't anticipate things being bad.  We could end up getting intermittent showers and getting a soft golf course that could fire up the play, and the scores could get even lower.

Q.  How important was it for you to get off to a good start?  It obviously helps going into the weekend.
MEG MALLON: That would be great.  I don't think I have a good history here actually.  I'm not sure I have many top tens at this event.  I know I can do it.  It's nice to get off with this good start.  It seems like in the past I haven't been able to make putts, and, go figure, this week when the greens are probably the harshest they've been, I've actually seen the ball go into the hole.  As patchy as they are from the winter kill, they are actually rolling in places where the grass is.

Q.  Do you consider yourself a good cold-weather player?
MEG MALLON: You know, that's a very good question.  No, I don't.  I have a compact swing, and I actually today fought with that a lot, and it made me focus even harder.  I knew in cold weather and bulky clothes my swing gets shorter and shorter.  It actually mentally was my best day today because I knew that and wasn't hitting it completely solid, but managed my game incredibly well. 
In answer to your question, before I won in Rochester in the rain, I always said I won my tournaments in 70 degrees and over.  That's the only time I've won where it has been rainy and cold and whatnot.

Q.  So, you're the Tampa Bay Buccaneers of the LPGA?
MEG MALLON: Well, the Raiders are my team, so I don't know if I can say that.

Q.  So, it might be a British Open feel here?  How's that different?
MEG MALLON: Yeah.  I hope not.  I hope they don't get that way.  The hard part is they're holding their umbrellas.  You don't hear very much clapping going on.  We would rather have them hoot and holler a little bit and be more vocal when they can't clap.  Who knows what's going to happen.  The rain always makes a golf tournament interesting.  There is no doubt about it.

Q.  It must be neat to be playing well this week when Annika's at Colonial playing well where you won the 1991 U.S. Women's Open.
MEG MALLON: Yeah, I found it a little ironic actually.  I thought about that a little bit, but, yeah, that was very fun, and I'm very proud of that, and it's just fun to watch Annika play the golf course, and, you know, see how she's playing it.  So, I really enjoyed that and can't wait to go home and curl up and watch it this afternoon.

Q.  Last year you and Catriona battled in Canada in tough conditions.
MEG MALLON: Now, the wind I like.  I shouldn't say I like.  The wind, I've done very well in.  That hasn't been a problem.  The cold rain is another story.  Even though I'm from Michigan, I don't know why, I should be used to it.  It's still cold rain, and I don't like it.

Q.  Regarding The Solheim Cup, you're seventh on the list right now?
MEG MALLON: Yeah, I've got some work to do.  Major incentive.  I feel like if I get to 100 points, I'm at 72 now, I'll make the team.  That's my goal.  I'm trying to win golf tournaments.  That will kind of take care of itself.

Q.  How important is it for you to me a member of the U.S. Team?
MEG MALLON: It's my favorite event every two years.  I grew up playing team sports, and in the Solheim Cup, you not only get to play teams, but you get to represent your country, and it's probably the most fun I have had playing golf.

Q.  Can you talk about winning last year in Minnesota?
MEG MALLON: It was awesome.  They were gracious to the European players.  We were proud to play in front of them.  They were cheering hard for us.  We put on a really good show.  It was a lot of fun.




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT