THE SOLHEIM CUP
October 23, 1994
Beth Daniel
Meg Mallon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BETH DANIEL: Well, my match probably wouldn't  have been one of the finer golf displays today, but  personally, neither one of us played very well and we  just sort of gutted it out and that is pretty hard to  do.  18th hole -- and neither one of us had our A.  Games going today and it was just pure gutts.  It  really was.  And, you know, I mean, my only thought was  I just wanted see if I can get a point for this team.  Sometimes you don't have your A. Game out there and  you've just got to play with what you have got.  That  is sort of what I did today.  But I really did.  I hung  in there, I was proud of myself, and Trish hung in  there too and she should be real proud of herself.  

MEG MALLON: Well, I can say our match was  pretty much the opposite.  We both played great  starting out.  

BETH DANIEL: That is because you are good.  

MEG MALLON: I birdied two, three and four and  Pam birdied three on top of me.  And we just kind of  carried that along to make a birdie to win our match,  pretty much.  And then, let's see, on number 9 she holed a  40 yard bunker shot on me and I had hit 12 feet and  missed it.  It just kept going back.  I birdied 10 and  11 and she birdied 12 and it was really a great match.  And then we, you know, we get to 17 and I know I have  to make that birdie because I figured she is going to  make hers and make that putt, and then she makes it  right on top of me.  It was just a lot of fun, but it  was a hard match.  I mean, we had -- we were throwing  it at the pins.  We were trying to do anything we could  to get up on each other and, you know, she just hung in  there throughout.  No matter what I'd do, she'd come  back and throw another birdie at me.  So it was quite a  match and my hat's up to Pam for how well she played  today.  I was just happy that -- I didn't look at the  board all day.  I was happy to be greeted by my team  mates to know that we had gotten a lot of points at  that point in time, so it was just a great experience.  

BETH DANIEL: We are instructed not to look at  the board.  

MEG MALLON: That is true.  Ms. Carner  instructed us not to look at the leader board.  And she  also said don't let a chip in or someone hitting a  bunker shot in because it is 18 different matches, and  you have to forget that hole and go onto the next.  I  kept trying to do that, but boy, I was getting mad.  That was quite a match.  But I am glad it worked out  the way it did.  It was great.  


Q.  Exactly what moment did you think you had won  the Cup for America?  

MEG MALLON: Well, I had turned around and the  players all said we clinched it.  Brandie got a halve;  at least it took a lot to sink in at that point in  time.  


Q.  Before you putted?  

MEG MALLON: This is when I turned around and  after she conceded the, you know, match to me and I  turned around and all these guys were telling me the  good news.  So that was great.  


Q.  Meg, how satisfying was it for you when you  were sort of the victim the last time?  

MEG MALLON: Well, yes, I was the victim of  Ms. Nilsmark the last time.  


Q.  Anything like that go through your mind?  

MEG MALLON: I tried to make sure that it  didn't.  I had to take care of my match. That is what  JoAnne instilled in us.  Take care of your only match  and everyone will be fine.  I had, what, 6 birdies today and still had to  go to 18.  So we both played so good.  I didn't expect  that at all and, you know, it just turned out where we  just both played really well, and everybody did today.  I -- just our team played great today.  


Q.  Meg, on what hole was it where there was a  question about how far away one or the other was on a  putt; do you remember that?  

MEG MALLON: On the 18th hole?  Maybe they had  to do -- they had to measure it, 18.  


Q.  Who was away?  

MEG MALLON: Pam ended up being away.  


Q.  How far?  

MEG MALLON: It wasn't that far, really.  It  was just maybe a foot or so away.  In that situation, I  definitely would have liked to have putted first  because she had an up hill putt and a run in it.  But  whatever happened -- and actually, I was turning around  to look for our captain because I knew that everybody  knew what my putt did, and JoAnne wasn't there.  So I  was on my own, and I had to figure that one out.  

BETH DANIEL: I wanted to tell you too.  

MEG MALLON: I know.  

BETH DANIEL: I'd just run it by.  I wanted to  tell Sherri too, and I couldn't do it.  

SHERRI STEINHAUER:  On which one?  

BETH DANIEL: On 18.  


Q.  I want to ask Beth about that putt.  You had  to make it because --  

BETH DANIEL: It was no problem. No, I mean  seriously, it was 2 and a half, three feet, I had been  putting those very well and I mean, I had no doubt --  there was no doubt in my mind that I would make that  putt.  I wasn't worried about it at all.  


Q.  You weren't kicking yourself?  

BETH DANIEL: You'd like to lag it a little  bit better, but, you know, basically, my touch on the  greens today was not good at all.  I did not putt  well.  You know, I hit the ball okay.  I drove it very  well, hit my irons pretty good, but I mean, I just had  no touch.  I felt like some greens were quick, some  were slow, and I just could not get the speed down  today and, you know, that lag putt on the last hole was  kind of an indication of that.  And I just -- it just  picked up speed.  However, it was quicker than I  thought it was.  Meg hit a great putt.  


Q.  Meg, you had a 4 putt?  

MEG MALLON: Yes, it was lovely.  


Q.  Did you lose the hole by one?  

BETH DANIEL: Why should you talk about  something like that?  

MEG MALLON: I just birdied 2, 3 and 4, then 5  we have and 6 I get up there and she hits it in the  bunker and I am up above the hole.  You have to listen  to this because Catrin Nilsmark had the same putt the  day before or two, whenever we played them two days  before.  And she sent it ten feet past the hole.  My  only thought is how fast this putt is, will I leave it  almost five feet short, now I still have a breaking  putt.  Well, then I hit it eight feet by again and  forget it, I was shot on that hole.  That is when I  thought of JoAnne and said, you know, get it out of  your head, that is just one hole and go on.  Fortunately I went on that par 3 and hit a good shot,  but I wasn't surprised I hit a 4 putt after I just  putted three or four great putts before that, but...  


Q.  Birdied 7 after that?  

MEG MALLON: No, I didn't birdie 7.  Hit a  good shot at 7 and hit a good 2-putt there.  


Q.  You did or you didn't know that your point  was the clincher until after you played the hole?  

MEG MALLON: Me?  No, I did not know.  


Q.  Until after you played the hole?  

MEG MALLON: That is right.  


Q.  We had so much of the team together, if they  can speak -- sorry, JoAnne, showed up at this time.  About what JoAnne meant to the team this year, what she  brought to you, how she might have prepared?  

JoANNE CARNER: You want me to exit so they  can really tell you?  

MEG MALLON: JoAnne was way to humble today in  the closing ceremonies.  JoAnne was the difference in  our team this year.  She gave us tremendous leadership,  she set the tone in the beginning of the week when she  handed out the pairs and she handed them out to the  Europeans, she handed them out to everybody and said  this is my team, there are no secrets, this is who you  are playing, and these are the -- I mean, she said you  are playing 54 holes in the practice rounds despite all  of us whining about it.  She had us set and regimented  and said -- whipped us into shape and said, you know,  this is our goal, this is the reason why we are here,  we are not here just to play, we are here to win this  thing, and she set the tone.  And she -- like I said  the other day, just fed us with tremendous stories that  we will take for the rest of our lives.  I want to take  the opportunity to thank her right now for those  experiences that we had, that we got to share with  JoAnne.  


Q.  Does the results say anything about the state  of European and American golf?  

BETH DANIEL: Absolutely not.  I think that as  was said in the closing ceremony, this is great for  women's golf in general.  It showcased women's golf.  It didn't even showcase worldwide women's golf because  we don't have the Canadians here.  We don't have the  Asians here.  We don't have the Australians.  We don't  have the Africans.  But the nature of The Solheim Cup  is to showcase the best women's golfers, and I think  that too much has been talked about who is the winner  and who is the loser and who is better and who is not  better.  Doesn't make any difference.  Women's golf won  here and that is what should win because women's golf  has a lot of catching up to do, and we certainly don't  need to be fighting against each other.  And, you know,  it is tough for us as players because a lot of us are  friends.  It is like when Charlie Mechem stood up there  and he looked at the European team and he said "this is  hard for me because a lot of you are very, very close  to me," and I mean that is the truth.  That is how we  feel about these people, and I think that the air about  this has been created to have-- to win or you have to  win, and it is not right because it is all about golf  and it is all about women's golf.  And I tell you what,  the people that saw that telecast these last three  days, saw some of the greatest golf shots, male or  female, under pressure.  That speaks a lot for the  caliber of women's golf in general.  


Q.  Meg, was it like a revenge for you from '92?  

MEG MALLON: I didn't win it.  I didn't lose  it.  The team won it.  So I can't say that this was a  personal thing for me.  This was -- I was happy to get  on the team in the first place and happy to have the  opportunity to be playing with some of the greatest  players in the world.  That is how I will take this  experience.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT