NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BRUINS v BLACKHAWKS
June 13, 2013
Andrew Ference
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   (Question regarding the final score sheet.) 
ANDREW FERENCE:   You know it's going to be a lot, playing almost two games.   It looks strange on paper, had a couple games like that where everything looks out of whack on the score sheet. 

Q.   I would expect if there's a group that's able to deal with a crushing loss, it would be this group. 
ANDREW FERENCE:   Yeah, I mean, it's a loss.   It's an overtime loss.   A lot of hockey played obviously to get to that point. 
I mean, like I said, it was a good hockey game.   I think there's a lot of great plays.   There's a lot of guys that were frustrated with not putting the puck in the net on certain chances. 
I think you look back at the game as a whole, you say this is going to be a tight series.   It's not like there were no chances on net, no good plays.   Guys played their game.   Finishing wasn't there.   There was some great goaltending.   So you just move on. 
Vancouver, everybody's first time around, right?   You lose those couple games, maybe a heavier feeling than it is this morning. 

Q.   (Question regarding Krug.) 
ANDREW FERENCE:   Well, I don't know if it's a pep talk.   I think it's more it happens.   It's true.   We've all been there.   Everybody has made passes that don't work out.   So what.   That's the game. 
I mean, nobody expects perfection.   You know the other team is going to get chances.   You move on.   What's done is done. 
I think we've always been successful at really not paying too much attention to what's happened, what's gone on, whether it's history from 50 years ago or what's gone on in the last shift.   That's been a good approach for us. 
Whether it's experienced guys, young guys, the general atmosphere in the room is fairly consistent. 

Q.   If you're young, you don't get to this level without being able to shake off things occasionally. 
ANDREW FERENCE:   I mean, so what, they scored, that play happened.   But he also scored big goals for us and made great plays. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT