NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BRUINS v CANUCKS
June 7, 2011
Andrew Ference
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Andrew Ference.   
 ANDREW FERENCE: Our team has seen a lot of it. They're playing great. You know, it's tough. Your teammate is hurt on the ice, obviously your lineup is secondary to their health, but it's no fun to sit there and watch.   
  
  Q. (Question regarding the physicality.)   
 ANDREW FERENCE: Well, looking at what our sport is all about, finding that line, playing hard. We're allowed to be physical. That's part of the fabric of our sport.   
 Even though we have taken some of those hits as a team, we understand as well as anybody that it is a very fine line. A hit like that doesn't mean the guy is a bad guy or anything. They are split-second decisions. But they're split-second decisions that obviously can affect lives, as we've seen.   
 You always have to remain physical, remain aggressive, play within the confines of the game. I think players, the best word is to understand the responsibility that you have of staying on the right side of the line.   
  
  Q. Talk about the carryover that you're going to have to have from Game 3 to Game 4?  
 ANDREW FERENCE: I think a lot of our success has been to eliminate carryover, positively or negatively, to turn the page, in a big picture, game to game; small picture, period to period. It's a clean slate.   
 But they have a 2-1 lead. We know we have to do our job at home to stay in the series. It's important for us to just go at it.   
  
  Q. We've been talking about the respect factor for so many years. Yet the hits happen a lot. What do you have to say about that? Do you have to come to the conclusion they're going to happen and you can't eliminate them?   
 ANDREW FERENCE: Well, yeah, to a certain extent. I think injuries will happen for sure. These hits probably will happen. It's minimizing them. Even because those hits happen sometimes, you can't just sit there and say it's disrespectful, or the guy is a bad guy or anything like that. A single hit doesn't determine that.   
 It's not a copout when guys take, It's a fast game, because it is. Decisions happen quickly. The consequences are pretty severe, not the suspension consequences but the injury consequences.   
 Like I said, there's a lot of trust you put into your opponents that you're facing as well. There's a trust between teams that you have to not put yourselves in that situation.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT