NBA DRAFT
November 18, 2020
LaMelo Ball
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. One thing that Mitch Kupchak just talked about that I found interesting is you shouldn't just think of LaMelo as a point guard.  In the way positionless basketball is, considering his height, considering everything else, we're going to find ways to blend him.  He said, Maybe he plays some point forward.  He said, You should not simply think there's a crowd of people playing point guard.  Could you talk about, considering your combination of skills and size, how you think you fit into a basketball team in general that way?
 LAMELO BALL:   I feel like I fit anywhere real good, and definitely the point forward I feel like could work because it's definitely positionless basketball now.  You can just get in and go.  So Mitch is definitely saying the right stuff.
 Q. He said that the thing they're most excited about is your ability to push it, because James Borrego has really wanted to increase the pace of this team.  Do you see yourself as somebody who's really good in transition the way they described?
 LAMELO BALL:   Definitely.  I love transition.  I would love that the team would be in transition, and I feel like it's going to be fun this year.
 Q. Can you just talk to me about how excited you are to play with a young corps of guys in Miles Bridges, P.J. Washington, Devonte' Graham, that group of guys?
 LAMELO BALL:   Yeah, I'm definitely excited.  I've been seeing them ever since I was young, for real -- Miles at Michigan State and Huntington Beach.  And then P.J., I played him when he was at Findlay.  It's going to be exciting.  Two high fliers can get out and go.  And we've got a young team, so I feel like it's going to be nice.
 Q. Do you feel like this team really fits your style of play of wanting to get up and down the court quite a bit?
 LAMELO BALL:   Yeah, definitely.  I love getting up and down, so if that's the play style, that definitely fits.
 Q. With a lot of the mock drafts, you were projected to go No. 1 overall.  Was there any surprise at all that you fell to No. 3?  And what are your thoughts that you fell to an organization like the Charlotte Hornets?
 LAMELO BALL:   I definitely feel great falling into with them.  But the way I've fallen down, I never looked at it like that because, like I say, whatever happens happens, and I feel like it's God's plan.  So wherever he wanted to put me, that's where he put me, and I feel like he's going to let me blossom there.
 Q. You'll be playing for Michael Jordan, who is obviously considered the GOAT, the greatest of all time, when it comes to the sport of basketball.  Your immediate thoughts about playing for him as your owner?
 LAMELO BALL:   Man, straight blessing, for real.  I don't even have enough words to say.  I'm just blessed right now, for real.
 Q. What's it like to be in this moment today, to finally hear your name called?  And then I guess how excited are you to be an NBA player here in two weeks, to get into camp and get going?
 LAMELO BALL:   Definitely excited.  I'm just letting it all hit me right now.  But like I said, I'm ready to play.  I'm definitely ready to come in and just ready to lace them up.
 Q. What was the scene like at the draft party?  How many people do you guys there?  What was it like seeing everybody else get excited?
 LAMELO BALL:   It was beautiful.  It was all downstairs in the room.  The whole room was crying.  I couldn't even tell you how many people there were.  But when they called my name, everybody was cheering, excited.  It was a beautiful scene.
 Q. You've been a professional before, but Mr. Kupchak said on his call with the media he knows how young you are, there's a lot of room for growth, a lot of potential.  As far as the youth, how are you preparing yourself to adjust to life in the NBA, the spotlight, all of those things, and how do you feel like your previous experiences have prepared you for that?
 LAMELO BALL:   You just answered it right there.  I feel like these previous experiences made me who I am today.  So it's quite easy, if I'm just talking to you.
 Q. It's very well known that Charlotte needs their next showtime player.  They need a franchise cornerstone.  How do you feel like you're going to step into that role, and do you think you can fill the arena in Charlotte now?
 LAMELO BALL:   Yeah, I mean, definitely.  I feel like I can go out there and play basketball.  I feel like I was born to do this.  That's really my answer right there.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT