BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
August 26, 2004
Joakim Haeggman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Comments on the round? 
JOAKIM HAEGGMAN:  As I said yesterday, I am just trying to get my game back in shape and today was certainly the best round I have played for a while. I putted nicely and I was starting to strike the ball nicely as well, hitting the fairways and playing the game again which I haven't really been doing since the British Open so that is really why at the moment I feel that is all I can do, keep plugging away and make as many birdies as I can, that is all I can do.
Q. Are you also on duty for Bernhard at the moment -- will he be ringing you?
JOAKIM HAEGGMAN:  No I don-t think so, I think he has his mind set all ready, not that I know anything about it but I am quite sure, he has his team sorted out or at least his options sorted out. It is the captain's choice and he is going to pick the two players he wants to at the end of the week and that is that.
Q. Can you talk us through where you went after your first round last week?
JOAKIM HAEGGMAN: I was playing that badly that rather than keep plugging away, I decided to take a week off and go home for one day, see my swing coach and try to sort myself out and get ready for this week and I am playing nicely again this week which is good news.
Q. Did you explain this to Langer?
JOAKIM HAEGGMAN: Yes I did, I talked to him before I left America.
Q. And what did he think?
JOAKIM HAEGGMAN: He basically said I needed to do what I thought was the best thing for me to do. As diplomatic as Bernhard always is!
Q. Do you think he knows who his two wild cards are already?
JOAKIM HAEGGMAN: I would have thought he would have like three players in his mind already. I don't know, but it is that close that you have to think he has thought it through. He is the captain of the Ryder Cup team. It is not like a football coach who selects his team three hours before play, he has got his mind sorted out and pretty much knows. He will know who he wants on the team and who he doesn't want on the team, I mean guys like Jacobson and Donald wouldn't be over here if they didn't think they had a chance to make the team and I am sure he would like to see some form from Colin as well. Everyone is saying the Colin is in the team but he has got to show some kind of form as well, so it was nice to see him playing well today.
Q. Would you regard that as showing form, what he did today?
JOAKIM HAEGGMAN:  I think so. If you name is Colin Montgomerie with seven Order of Merits and X number of Ryder Cups and a great record in the Ryder Cup, all you need to do is to show people you can still play the game and he would be a great pick for a team like that, anybody can understand that.
Q. Sounds like he would be in your team?
JOAKIM HAEGGMAN: I think he would be, yes, but it is not my choice, it is Bernhard's.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT