VOLVO PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 28, 2004
Joakim Haeggman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  I imagine quite a disappointing finish?
JOAKIM HAEGGMAN:   Any time you walk off this golf course with two 5s on the last two holes, you haven't really done your job very well, have you.

Yes, a little bit disappointing, but at the same time, if you asked me if I would be happy at 9 under after two days, I'm really, really happy where I am.  And again, got a good chance for the weekend, and, you know, feeling pretty good about it.
Q.  When you got to 10 under after 12, you must have been feeling that you could have had a chance of going into the lead at that stage?
JOAKIM HAEGGMAN:   Yeah, well, not really.  You're trying to finish off this golf course as well as you can.  I think it's a tough stretch, 13, 14, 15.  And at the same time, 16, 17, 18 is a pretty simple stretch at the end.

13, got a bit of a bad lie in the rough, and that is really why I didn't birdie the last two holes.  I drove it in the rough both on 17 and 18, and that's the end of story, really.  Just really hard to blow those holes from there.

Gave myself a good chance on 18, though.  Hard to make the putts, as well, at this time of day.  The poa is growing a little bit and it's not rolling great at the moment.  They are probably better than they have been for quite a few years, the greens.  But again, at this time of the day, they are suffering a little bit.
Q.  But the form is still pretty good, has been all season?
JOAKIM HAEGGMAN:   Absolutely.  It's been a good year so far, I'm still playing well, and certainly scoring well.  I mean, the first round yesterday wasn't very good and today I should have played well     as you said about, 12 holes or 10, 13, 14, 15 today, just really played well for a while and that was the key to that, got it going, really.
Q.  What's been the difference this year, can you put your finger on it?
JOAKIM HAEGGMAN:   To start off with, no injuries.  Had a really nice winter.  Got a good practice in.  I worked a lot on my flexibility after my injury.  And I think just being able to listen to my body  not really working so well, I just kept beating golf balls.

Right now the guys in the physio unit here and my guy at home is helping a lot, keeping my body mobile; so I can pretty much makes moves I want to make on the golf course.  Sometimes when it's not working, I can look at that aspect of the game and say, well I'm not feeling good, I'm pretty flexible     actually now the Red Bull Unit is doing a good job to keep it going for me.  And it's obviously something I've learned to listen to over the years, and I think that's the main difference.
Q.  Hard to get back your balance after an injury?
JOAKIM HAEGGMAN:   Yeah, sure.  It has been a lot of balance training on all sorts of balls and all sort of things.  But I think the bottom line is, is flexibility and more control of what I'm actually trying to do, which helps me a lot.

Obviously, where I was in the middle of last year was just two choices:  Either go full throttle forward, or we just stop right here and end.  And the choice was pretty simple after watching the boys on TV for about four months.  In the beginning you go, maybe, well, I might not want to do that again.  After six weeks, you go, well, I can do better than that.  And after two months, you go, well, that's what I'm going to do again.

You put all of the energy towards that, and this year, I had no choice, I had to take everything outside of my life, really.  It's me, my girlfriend and my golf at the moment.  That's the way it has to be to get going, and it has worked out nicely.  Obviously a lot better than I ever thought.
Q.  Ryder Cup is a big goal, yeah?
JOAKIM HAEGGMAN:   It is.  For me to make it from where I am, it's going to be really tough.  As of now I'm really acclimating to the Open.  It's going to help me make a good golf tournament.  It's going to be really tough to finish with the U.S. PGA and NEC coming up there, as of now not having a start in either of them, it's going to be tough.  You never know, if I play well, I might get a start in either of them.  I need to get into one of those big money tournaments and do well in them.  It's going to be tough to keep winning Qatar Masters and do well at the PGA just to get there.  I think that the boys have too much of a head start for that.
Q.  This will help.
JOAKIM HAEGGMAN:   Yeah, this helps.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT