DEUTSCHE BANK - SAP OPEN TPC OF EUROPE
May 22, 2004
Joakim Haeggman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








GORDON SIMPSON:  Great playing on that back nine today, six birdies, home in 30 for a 66, and you seem to have put yourself right in the picture for tomorrow.
JOAKIM HAEGGMAN:   Yeah, I obviously gave myself an opportunity tomorrow.  I played really nicely on the back side and managed to hole a few putts, and it makes all the difference, and obviously keeping the ball in the fairway.
GORDON SIMPSON:  And this season, it seems to be a pretty good turnaround for you.
JOAKIM HAEGGMAN:   Yeah, I think it's a lot more enjoyable than being on the crutches, that's for sure.
GORDON SIMPSON:  How have things been since winning in Qatar?
JOAKIM HAEGGMAN:   Yeah, I had a couple two or three Top 10s since then, and it's been quite coming long quite nicely.  Had a bit of an upset at the British Masters a couple of weeks back.  I think I would like to put that down to    inaudible    after the Italian inexperience, if you can call it that way.  It was the very tough week, the Italian.  I was playing in the last group and we had to finish on Monday and all the sorts of things on the way there and never really got it back together after that.
GORDON SIMPSON:  A big week for the tournament, and also you could qualify for the Open this week, as well.
JOAKIM HAEGGMAN:   Yeah, it is an important week for me, obviously, as every week at the moment.  We are beginning of a patch here, about six or eight weeks, where we need to plug in and play well, especially for me, who is sort of     give myself the opportunity to do something good this year after winning in Qatar.  But I realize I'm quite a bit behind the boys here, but it's giving me the chance, anyway, which is very pleasant.
Q.  How good was the 66?
JOAKIM HAEGGMAN:   The 66 was very good. 72 yesterday was excellent, as well.  But the 66 was very good. I reckon that would be equal to sort Cejka's 64 the other day, really.  It was pretty tough out there, and I hit some pretty tough shots.  And I made every possible put on the back side except for the 6 foot on last hole which obviously I would have loved to have made, but that would be asking for too much really.  It's hard to get an opportunity like that from six feet and once you get one, you would like to make that one, as well.  But I'm very happy.
Q.  What was the highlight today?
JOAKIM HAEGGMAN:   The highlight was probably I hit a really hard 4 iron on 16 to about seven foot behind the hole, which would be very, very close to going in.  Stood back and I'm carrying a rescue, instead of my 3 iron this week, which has plenty of loft on it, so it is not that good into the breeze.  So decided to hit a 4 iron, put it back in my stance, and came out flashing really low and came in perfect which was probably the best Shot of the Day.
Q.  You're still looking to play in the Ryder Cup, aren't you?
JOAKIM HAEGGMAN:   Oh, of course I am.  Every week now it's a great opportunity to do so, but to think about the Ryder Cup in May is a bit of a big step, but I certainly realize that every week and every penny I can make, it can help toward that Oakland  Hills spot, obviously.
GORDON SIMPSON:  You'll be there in some capacity, anyway.
JOAKIM HAEGGMAN:   Yeah, I've got my ticket, which is nice.
Q.  The deadline
JOAKIM HAEGGMAN:   I think     I think that's Bernhard's call.  Obviously it's nice to be in this position and playing well.  Whether I make it or not, or if I make it, that, obviously I hope would be enough for the team.  If not, having played well and having played with a lot of the boys this season that are going to be playing in the Ryder Cup may help Bernhard for the week, as well.

So whatever comes out of this, we're going to be using this when it gets to it, which I think is good.
Q.  Taking it all to the wire, in other words?
JOAKIM HAEGGMAN:   Yeah, which is the end of August.  I'm sure it's quite easy to find another, as I said before, locker room voice, somewhere.
GORDON SIMPSON:  I think you said as well in Qatar, being one of Sam's helpers last year rekindled your appetite for that sort of competition.
JOAKIM HAEGGMAN:   Absolutely.  Being involved last year, after all of the trouble early in the year, sort of really     yeah, certainly got my mindset on where I've maybe an able to do it before, maybe I can do it once more, basically.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT