BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 3, 1999
Ralph Willard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RALPH WILLARD:  Both teams played really hard.  Both teams played very well, very aggressive and very well defensively.  Started the second half -- I thought was a pivotal point.  We missed two free throws and a layup there and Rutgers came out and made some shots, and gave them a little breathing room.  And from that point on, although he we kept battling we missed a lot of easy shots.  And free throws really hurt us tonight, too.  We were only 10 for 22 from the free throw line.  That really hurt us -- 12 for 22 I guess it was.  Thought the kids played hard.  Did a good job, and Rutgers just made a few more shots than we did. 
 

Q.  What did you say to the team in the locker room?
 
RALPH WILLARD:  I just told them I was very proud of them how they hung together through a lot of adversity.  They kept battling, and winning three out of the last four regular season games, you know I was very, very proud of their record.  You know, obviously, I would have liked to have played a little better offensively.  But their record was 18 offensive rebounds, and the effort was there.  We just couldn't seem to convert and make the  shots.  We had a lot of inside shots, that, you know, were very, very convertable and just didn't make it, but I was very very proud of them. 
 

Q.  How did Lockhart feel today?  What did that do to the game?
 
RALPH WILLARD:  Obviously, we have six guys -- Chris, God bless him, he came in for 30 seconds and he's got to come out -- but Jarrett's's been hurt since the Miami game.  He hasn't played and he practiced two days ago and he practiced for about 40 minutes, and thought he felt pretty decent but the next day.  He couldn't move his leg and Tony couldn't even stretch him; so we knew as of yesterday he wasn't going to be able to play. 
 

Q.  What emotions are you feeling?
 
RALPH WILLARD:  We've had a little time to prepare for this, the kids and I.  Obviously, it's, you know, it's an emotional time, but, you know, like I said, we've had a little time to prepare together for it.  Like I said, I was very, very proud of their effort throughout the last part of the season.  I told them, I said as a group of people, and as individuals, some individuals on this team they went through a tremendous amount of personal and team adversity, and I was proud of the way they handled.  And it I just said  that I hope they can continue to grow from it and, you know they always know they have me as a friend to -- to count on.  But, you know, it was -- there's no question, it's tough. 
 

Q.  How much of a difference do you think having only six guys made?
 
RALPH WILLARD:  Well, that would be like, you know, going to fight a war and you've got five guys versus ten.  You know, it made a lot of difference.  We were dead-dog tired.  There's no question about it. That's the hand we were dealt with and we had to play with. 
 

Q.  Why did you not bring up (inaudible)?
 
RALPH WILLARD:  In all honesty, they are great kids, but there's no way they can compete at this level, and, you know, that wouldn't have made any difference at all. 
 

Q.  What's your thoughts of coaching Geoff for the last few years?
 
RALPH WILLARD:  It's a privilege.  He's a great player and more importantly he's a great young man.  I've been privileged to coach him. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT