MLB WORLD SERIES: RANGERS v CARDINALS
October 22, 2011
Dirk Nowitzki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Are you ready for a new career?  
 DIRK NOWITZKI: Yeah, maybe in a couple years. No, it's obviously great to be out here. The World Series is a once-in-a-lifetime experience. I didn't go last year, didn't get to go. I want to obviously thank the Commissioner Mr. Selig for letting me throw and the Rangers for having me, as always.   
 It's a pleasure, and hopefully this is the big game. In a tied series you always want to win Game 3, so should be fired up for a great game.  
  
  Q. What do you want to say to the fans because the Rangers wanted you, MLB said no, and then the fans on social media said, we want this guy on the mound?  
 DIRK NOWITZKI: Yeah, it was unbelievable, the response I got. My Twitter blew up that day and it was just a crazy day. One time it was a no-go, then it was on again. Really excited the feedback from the fans and the whole Metroplex kind of tweeted somebody at Major League Baseball to get on it. So I'm really proud of obviously representing the Metroplex, and hopefully I did okay with the pitch.  
  
  Q. Did you ever get an explanation on why they weren't going to have you?  
 DIRK NOWITZKI: Yeah, kind of wishy-washy. Nothing really. Nothing really, that really made sense. No, I'm glad it worked out and I got to represent.   
  
  Q. Did the Rangers call you and say, hey, man, it's off?  
 DIRK NOWITZKI: Yeah, it was on, then I got the call it was off, and I was like, that's fine. I wasn't really hurt or anything. I just wanted to be here and watch the game. Even if they wouldn't have let me pitch today I probably would be here and support the boys.  
  
  Q. What advice did you get after your first pitch?  
 DIRK NOWITZKI: My last one in July was a little high. This time they told me to throw a four-seam fastball. I still don't understand what that means. But I think that's the grip I had. Or was it a two-seam fastball? No, I forgot. It worked out better the last time. Everybody just told me don't throw it low, so I left it way high, and Michael Young almost pulled a hamstring trying to jump and get it, and this time I think he could stay in the stance and catch it. So it was better.  
  
  Q. Was there any specific baseball team that you followed growing up even though you lived in Germany?  
 DIRK NOWITZKI: Not really. You know, baseball is not a big sport in Germany. It's basically all soccer. Been following obviously the Rangers the last 13 years since I got here and grew to love the sport. I support all the sports here. It's a great sports town. Obviously we have a lot of great teams, and it's been -- yeah, had a fun ride. Even last year fell a little short, so hopefully this year they'll get another crack at it and come out on top. It'll be awesome.  
  
  Q. Did you ever get a chance to say anything to them in the clubhouse?  
 DIRK NOWITZKI: I just saw a couple and gave them a high five and said "good luck" and "kick butt" and all the stuff you say before a game to try to pump them up. Obviously they're very focused and they know it's a big game and a tied series. We'll see what happens, but I'm excited.  
  
  Q. Did you watch Game 2?  
 DIRK NOWITZKI: I watched the comeback in the ninth inning.  
  
  Q. Were you reminiscing back to Game 2 of your own series there?  
 DIRK NOWITZKI: For sure. It didn't look good there even though it was just a one-run game. But it seemed like we couldn't score on these guys, then finally there in the ninth inning broke through with a couple sacrifice flies. I'm throwing out the lingo here. (Laughter).   
 But it was definitely fun to watch, and then Nefti came in and closed it out. So that was definitely a fun comeback and then a fun win because it's always fun to come back from 0-2 in a series in any sport. So to make it 1-1 was definitely big.   
  
  Q. Do you see a parallel for the Rangers? You guys did it, do you think they're going to be able to do it, too?  
 DIRK NOWITZKI: I hope so. Like I said, the second time around, and hopefully they'll learn from last year like we did in '06 and just be able to close it out. That would be awesome for the Metroplex to do it in the same year, get a championship and have another parade. That would be awesome.  
  
  Q. Are you going to be out here Sunday and Monday?  
 DIRK NOWITZKI: If they let me. I'll have to check with the Rangers. I'm going to ask Nolan when I sit behind him today, what's going on with the tickets?   
  
  Q. Would you sing in this parade if there was one for the Rangers?  
 DIRK NOWITZKI: For sure. If they want me in it, I'm there.  
  
  Q. How many times have you thrown a baseball?  
 DIRK NOWITZKI: Not that much. I grew up playing handball, which is kind of a throwing motion. The ball is just bigger, and we play it on a goal. That sport is not really big here, so I always grew up throwing a ball. That's why I brought the heat today.   
  
  Q. During the AL Championship Series what led to the fist bump? Did he see you first?  
 DIRK NOWITZKI: I don't know what led to that. It obviously helped that we already had double-digit runs. I think if they were down or it was a tie game I don't think he would have turned around and gave me a fist bump. But I think at that point the crowd was into it and fired up so he turned around and saw me and gave me that, fist bump.   
 I don't know how they do it 100 times a game. My arm is already killing me. I threw five practice ones. So you've got mad respect for those players.  
  
  Q. Do you remember your first baseball game you ever saw?  
 DIRK NOWITZKI: My impression was it's a pretty slow developing game. Obviously growing up and playing tennis and handball and basketball and everything, it's kind of boom, boom, boom. You know, the game started, so I shouldn't be keeping you guys, but yeah, it was a slow developing game, but I learned to love it, all the little stuff that goes on during the game. It's just fun to watch, so a big fan.  
  
  Q. Can you just talk a little bit about the NBA. What have you heard and what have you been doing?   
 DIRK NOWITZKI: Well, I don't know much more about the NBA than you guys. I mean, obviously I watched the press conference the other day, which was very disappointing. We're all hoping I guess with the mediator that something was going to happen, and just talks broke off, so it's very unfortunate. We'll see. Hopefully we can get something going here anytime soon. But it doesn't look good.   
 I've just been keeping in shape, you know, working out, doing lots of cardio and lifting a little bit and running. I mean, like I said, if the season will start any time soon, I think I'll be ready.  
  
  Q. Your finger is --  
 DIRK NOWITZKI: Yeah, what happened was still from The Finals, I took a ball on it in the Euros this summer, so it was kind of like sagging again. So I've got to keep it straight for whatever, four, six weeks. But it doesn't bother me at all, it doesn't hurt or anything, but it was just -- it was almost looking like this (finger bent). Hopefully it's coming back to this (finger straight).  
  
  Q. You didn't have to have it cut or anything?  
 DIRK NOWITZKI: I didn't have surgery, no.  
  
  Q. You haven't attended any of the meetings?  
 DIRK NOWITZKI: No, I haven't made it to any meetings. I was basically in Europe all summer. Came back about two, two and a half weeks ago just to relax after the Euros, which was pretty hard and physical, a lot of games, so I've been just relaxing. But maybe here in the near future when we get something going I might stop by.  
  
  Q. If there's no settlement will you play with the Rangers?  
 DIRK NOWITZKI: I would love that. If there's no settlement I'll probably go back home soon, start training with my coach again. It's time to really get back in the routine. Got to keep the options open, maybe see what's going on overseas.  
  
  Q. Are you still thinking that you wouldn't go overseas until January to play?  
 DIRK NOWITZKI: Yeah, since I haven't really touched a ball now since the last game of the Euros, so that's been over six weeks, I guess. I haven't touched a ball. So definitely going home and then start training again, hopefully for a couple weeks, get back in shape, and then if the lockout still stays strong, I've definitely got to look into something there January and February, if the lockout really continues to stay strong.   
  
  Q. DJ Flula Borg, he made a theme song for you and called you the German Moses. What do you think of being labeled the German Moses?  
 DIRK NOWITZKI: I think it's a bit much, but no, it's obviously having fun with the fans. I think they did some great stuff and some great YouTube videos, especially after we won the whole thing. There's a lot of great things out there, and it's been fun.   
  
  Q. You and Michael Young, you guys have kind of been long-time fixtures here in Dallas. Do you feel a connection or friendship with him in that regard?  
 DIRK NOWITZKI: Definitely. We've been here for a long time, and he's trying to win the whole thing like I did, and finally I reached my dream. So hopefully he can do the same thing this year, and the way he made contact even the last couple years, try to meet up whenever we can. He's a great guy, and he's the man, so hopefully he can come through and bring this city another championship.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT