BOSTON COLLEGE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 18, 2017
Thadd Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Just talk about the jet sweep and how you've been able to use that and make that such an effective weapon for this offense?  
THADD SMITH: Well, we started in camp and it's been working.  Each game we have a game plan out and depending on the defense, if it works, it works.  If not, we just figure out another play.  But the jet sweep this year has been successful for us.  It helps the whole offense as a whole in the passing game, inside game, and outside game.  It keeps the defense honest, I think.   
 Q.  Does it open up the defense a little for A.J. to attack between the tackles too, having that outside threat?  
THADD SMITH: I feel as though it opens up the offense as a whole, not just A.J., but also in the pass game.   
 Q.  Can you talk about Darius and how he's come along since the Connecticut game and getting you guys ready to face Iowa?  
THADD SMITH: Yeah, D. Wade is doing his thing right now.  The team is just carrying around him and supporting him.  The more we do that, the more D. Wade's going to grow.  So D. Wade is doing his thing right now.   
 Q.  You guys have had this time off a little bit before the bowl game.  How important is it for you to find a way to start fast?  Get back into that rhythm that you guys have had at the end of the season?  
THADD SMITH: Well, we had a few days off, but Coach Addazio has been doing a great job with the practices and with the way he structured our practice.  And we've been doing tempo at the end of practice so we have that game-like feeling.  Also, we've been going ones against ones, so we get that feeling of competitiveness back.  So it doesn't feel like we've been gone too long away from the game.   
 Q.  Is that different from what you've done through the regular season?  
THADD SMITH: Oh, yes.  Just because during the regular season we usually go one versus twos.  But this bowl prep we're going one-on-ones, just because we've been away from the game so long.  He wants to work us back into the game.   
 Q.  Just quickly, your thoughts on going to New York and playing in this bowl.  Coach mentioned he expects it to be more of a home game for you guys since you're so close.  The thoughts of looking up in the stands and knowing there are going to be a lot of Boston College fans out there?  
THADD SMITH: I feel as though it's going to be a great atmosphere.  I'm excited to go back to New York.  I was there my freshman year.  I feel as though we're going to have a lot of fans there.  I'm just excited to play one more game with my brothers.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT