COLLEGE FOOTBALL PLAYOFF MEDIA CONFERENCE
January 6, 2021
DeVonta Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Just wondered what was the emotion like last night?  Was there anxiety watching that ceremony?
 DEVONTA SMITH:   Last night was a great feeling.  It was just a blessing just to be in that situation, to be with Mac and Coach Saban here last night.  But now that's in the past and now it's on to Ohio State.
 Q. I was just curious as to -- you're such a focused individual, moving on to the next thing, but the excitement of last night, did you have trouble sleeping?  Was it a good night's sleep for you or were you able to just kind of put that to bed, so to speak, and move on?
 DEVONTA SMITH:   I went home and went straight to sleep.
 Q. I know it remains to be seen if he's going to play or not, but just how good is it to see Jaylen Waddle back at practice and back on his feet?
 DEVONTA SMITH:   It's amazing just to see him recover.  I'm glad that he's recovering well and that everything is just going as planned.
 Q. How has Jaylen looked at practice?  Does he look like himself?
 DEVONTA SMITH:   I think he's getting back into it.  Of course he's going to take some time just for him to get back comfortable with everything, but he looks good to me.
 Q. What do you think?  Do you think there's a shot of him playing?
 DEVONTA SMITH:   No comment.
 Q. Just curious if you had a chance to look at Ohio State's defense more and just what are your thoughts on what you saw from their defensive backs, maybe especially how they matched up with Clemson?
 DEVONTA SMITH:   As a defense, they're a very good defense.  Everybody gets to the ball.  They don't make a lot of mistakes.  Their back end, they're very athletic.  They're great cover guys.
 Q. Moving forward like you'd like to, is this maybe the best defense at least film study-wise that you've seen this year out of Ohio State?
 DEVONTA SMITH:   Yes, it's one of them, just with everything that they do, giving us different looks and things like that.  Everybody getting to the ball, everybody just doing their job.
 Q. Both you and Ohio State cornerback Shaun Wade are future first-round draft picks.  How much do you look forward to your one-on-one match-up with him and what will you do to take it tough for him to stop you?
 DEVONTA SMITH:   I'm just looking forward to my last game.  I'm only guaranteed this last one, so I'm looking forward to getting to play against him.
 Q. In this world of college football where everybody wants the ball and everybody wants to play, this season how did Coach Saban and Sark make it work?  How did you guys spread the ball around where everybody gets enough touches and everyone is happy?
 DEVONTA SMITH:   I think that's just like part of this team, just everybody knowing that there's going to be some games where you're going to get all the touches and some games you're not going to, and I think that's just everybody just buying into the process and just believing the coaches and everything that they do.  They're going to put everybody in a great situation to do the right thing.
 Q. You had Coach Saban there with you last night.  I was just wondering, he's obviously known for his work with defensive backs, but what's the biggest impact you think Nick Saban has made on you as not only a player but maybe off the field, as well?
 DEVONTA SMITH:   Just a lot of life lessons, just things outside of football, whether it's how you treat people, and no matter how people are treating you, you always treat everyone else with respect.
 Q. What have you seen from Shaun Wade in film work so far, and what is it you're looking forward to?
 DEVONTA SMITH:   He's very crafty.  He mixes his technique up some and just everything he does.  He's a technician with everything he does, and he's a great player.
 Q. Could you share with us your perspective on the development of your teammate John Metchie this year, from freshman season to the way he's been able to contribute as a sophomore?
 DEVONTA SMITH:   Just from day one when Metchie came in when he was a freshman he was always in the film room watching extra film, trying to learn defenses and things like that.
 So he's put in the work and it's paying off for him just with everything that goes on.  He's been great to this team and great to this offense.
 Q. When you're watching the film of Ohio State or other teams you're competing against, do you look how they guard their No. 1 receiver, maybe some double coverage or special zones?  And also, do you know anybody on the Ohio State team fairly well?
 DEVONTA SMITH:   I think every team has coverages where it's going to be doubles in it.  That's just part of playing defense, you have those coverages where you are allowed to do that.
 I don't know anyone on Ohio State's team.
 Q. How are you preparing for the upcoming season?
 DEVONTA SMITH:   Just coming in, day in and day out, just doing my job, just doing the things that the coaches wanted me to do and just putting in extra work.
 Q. You've probably had quite a few battles in practice with Patrick over the years; I'm wondering what makes him so good, and have you ever faced anybody better in a game?
 DEVONTA SMITH:   What makes Pat so good is just how technical he is with everything, whether it's getting his foot in the ground, things like that.  He does everything just right, and he doesn't make a lot of mistakes.  He's very smart.  He can read offenses.  He reads the splits and things like that.  He's a great corner.
 Q. Building off the previous question on John Metchie III, can you elaborate on how John has grown as a person off the field?
 DEVONTA SMITH:   I believe he's just got more comfortable with being around here, just not necessarily from being around this area.  He's got a lot more comfortable with things around here, and it's just made him develop more and become a better player.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT