SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE FOOTBALL CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: FLORIDA VS ALABAMA
December 14, 2020
DeVonta Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   We'll get started with DeVonta Smith.
While we're waiting on questions, take a moment to comment on the upcoming SEC game against Florida.
DeVONTA SMITH:   I'm excited for the game this weekend.  Going to be a big game, going to be a great game.
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for DeVonta Smith.
Q. Have you come across an offense that can keep up with you guys this season?  Do you see this Florida team as having potential to do that?
DeVONTA SMITH:   Yeah, I think they have the potential to do it just with them locked in formation, throwing the ball a lot, getting the ball to their play-makers.
Q. You're on the offensive side of the ball, but you probably watch other offensive players.  What do you think of Pitts and Toney as play-makers?
DeVONTA SMITH:   They're great play-makers.  Toney, he's good in space with the ball after the catch.  Pitts, he just makes unbelievable plays.
Q. Kaiir Elam is probably going to be matched up against you a good bit.  What do you see in him?  He's long, pretty tough guy.  What do you see in Kaiir?
DeVONTA SMITH:   He has great technique.  He's really patient.  He's a great football player.
Q. Is he a step up against some of the guys you've gone against?  Have you faced guys of his caliber yet?  The SEC is loaded with cornerbacks.
DeVONTA SMITH:   Yeah, I feel like almost every game I'm playing against a top cornerback.  It's going to be another one of those games.
Q. What are your thoughts on this Florida defense based on what you've seen so far this year, maybe some film work this week?
DeVONTA SMITH:   They're a good defense.  They're really physical.  They get to the ball.  The front seven is really physical.  Everybody just does their job.
Q. We talked to Coach Saban yesterday.  He said that he wanted to make sure that you guys maybe weren't overlooking Florida because they're coming off of a loss.  Is that something that you and your teammates will address or talk about, something that has to be a message this week?
DeVONTA SMITH:   That's the message every week, just not to overlook anybody that we playing.
Q. Florida's front seven, they're physical.  Florida leads the SEC in sacks with 31.  How confident are you in your quarterback Mac Jones being able to handle that type of pressure, get the ball around?
DeVONTA SMITH:   I'm very confident with him.  Go to practice today, put some things in, work on our protections, things like that.  I think by Saturday we'll be good to go.
Q. What are the biggest ways you've seen Mac Jones grow over the course of the year?
DeVONTA SMITH:   Just the communication with everybody on the offense, whether it's from a blitz is going to come or what coverage they're going to play.
Q. Another Mac Jones question.  A lot of people will be watching this game as a Heisman tiebreaker.  What do you think would make Mac the best quarterback in the country this year?
DeVONTA SMITH:   Just how smart he is, just everything that he does.  He sees stuff before it happens.  He lets everyone know what's about to happen.
Q. Mac Jones, Nick Saban yesterday was saying he had a tough road coming up, similar to Kyle Trask.  What did you see there?  What is his story in terms of his perseverance?
DeVONTA SMITH:   It all comes down to trusting the process.  He trusts the process.  He's making the most of his opportunity.
Q. How hard is that for a guy?
DeVONTA SMITH:   It's not easy.  Just depends on the type of person you are.  Are you somebody that's willing to work for it or are you just going to give up?
THE MODERATOR:   That's all the questions for you.  Thank you.
DeVONTA SMITH:   Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT