AL DIVISION SERIES: ATHLETICS v YANKEES
October 14, 2001
Art Howe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Can you tell us a little about your impressions of El Duque?

ART HOWE:  He's a great competitor, and an outstanding pitcher.  He's pitched well against us almost every time out.  We know we have to have our game together to get after him.  There's obviously some question about his health, but I think there's no way he'd be out there if he wasn't healthy.

Q.  It seems like one of the keys to the success of your team is the fact that you let these guys sort of be a team, give them the responsibility.  Can you talk a little bit about that and how important it is as a manager?

ART HOWE:  Well, I just let them be themselves.  That's all.  I want them to be relaxed when they come to the ballpark, look forward to coming to the ballpark, and let them know I'm going to let them be as good as they can be, and help them improve their careers in any way we can.  I think they understand that and enjoy that.  And as far as in the clubhouse, I just want them to be themselves, and they tend to like that.  It's a great family atmosphere.  The guys get along well.  The chemistry is outstanding, and I think it shows the way we play, also.

Q.  As a manager and as a player, are you amazed by that play that Jeter made last night?

ART HOWE:  Yeah, I was just -- he's just an incredible player.  He seems to always be in the right spot at the right time.  He made a perfect flip on the play.  I thought he was just going to cut it off, to be honest with you.  And he was alert enough to realize he still might have a play at the plate.  And I wish he wasn't there, but he was.  He deserves a lot of credit.

Q.  Were you surprised the way Cleveland has handled Seattle?

ART HOWE:  Well, with their offense Cleveland is a very dangerous team.  If they get on a roll they're going to be tough for anybody.  Anybody is surprised with the kind of score they put up yesterday.  But going into that series I knew they were going to be tough to beat, because they can put up runs.

Q.  Have you had a chance to look at the play again last night?  Should Jeremy have slid?

ART HOWE:  That's hindsight.  The play is over, I think Ramon was signaling him to slide, but maybe he didn't even see him, I don't know.  He could have been safe, he could have been out.  And the call was he was out, and we have to play today and hopefully get this win.

Q.  You're leading the series, but there's this 0 for whatever, guys in scoring position, is there a commonality to that?

ART HOWE:  The first game up in New York we hit some balls very hard with men in scoring position, and they made great plays to keep us from scoring.  The last two games it seems like we've been getting people in scoring position after we've got an out or two.  And I think the key for us to break through is maybe get that lead-off man on and get something happening, and get something happening right in the inning, instead of after an out is already registered.

Q.  Just a thought about maybe that you can't pinpoint a time in the last couple of years, but was there a period when this team really started to believe that it was going somewhere?

ART HOWE:  I think probably September of last year when they started putting that string together and fought their way into the postseason last year, I think that's when this team grew up as a team and realized we can be very competitive, and we've got a chance to go places. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT