AL DIVISION SERIES: ATHLETICS v YANKEES
October 13, 2001
Art Howe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Art, could you talk about the play where Giambi was tagged out at the plate, what you saw?
 
ART HOWE:  It was a bang, bang play, that's for sure.  They got the call and I don't know if he'd have slid if have been able to get in or not, but we'll never know. 
 
Q.  Should he have slid?
 
ART HOWE:  I think Ramon was telling him to slide. 
 
Q.  Were you surprised to see the shortstop, making that --?
 
ART HOWE:  I didn't have any clue why he was involved in that, but it worked out well for them. 
 
Q.  Knowing that Jeremy is not a great base runner, any thought when he was on?
 
ART HOWE:  Yeah, there was thought.  If he got in scoring position, that's when I was going to run for him.  I knew if there was a chance to get anything going, he would have a chance to come up in the 9th to get things going for us. 
 
Q.  Were the hitters from both teams pressing or were you seeing outstanding pitching for both?
 
ART HOWE:  This is the kind of game that both sides expected.  Low scoring game, I said that before the game.  Barry obviously made one mistake and pitched a great ballgame.  He has nothing to be upset about because he did his job.  We couldn't muster any offense. 
 
Q.  Did you have a conversation with Kerwin Danley between innings?
 
ART HOWE:  That's a private matter. 
 
Q.  Art you gave up one run in 18 innings and lose a game, is it a tough way to take it?
 
ART HOWE:  Yeah, we battled tonight.  And when you have a young man go out there and pitch the way he did, you'd certainly like to come away with a win.  You have to give the Yankees credit, they came out and battled and got it done.  We have to come back tomorrow and see if we can get it done tomorrow.  We just need one win. 
 
Q.  What were your overall impressions of Mussina?
 
ART HOWE:  Exactly what I expected.  A competitor, he pitched well, he changed speeds and he pitched a heck of a game. 
 
Q.  Any concerns about how your team will be affected psychologically by losing a close game?
 
ART HOWE:  No, we bounced back from a lot less than this during the year.  We'll be ready to play tomorrow.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT