AL DIVISION SERIES: ATHLETICS v YANKEES
October 12, 2001
Art Howe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  So much attention is being paid to the starting pitching on this team.  Can you tell us what the pitching coaches bring to the table here, and how he contributes to the effectiveness of those guys?
 
ART HOWE: Well, Rick Peterson does a great job preparing these kids for each outing.  He really studies the opposing clubs, their hitters, their strengths and weaknesses and gives them an idea or so-called game plan to go in and try to exploit their so-called weaknesses, and he also goes with their strengths, our own pitchers strengths and emphasizes what they can do, but really gives them a good feeling going into the game that he's confident that they can get the job done and he does a great job, works hard with them. 
 
Q.  Given that Jason Isringhausen was talking about how nervous he was, how important was it to get into that situation and out of it?
 
ART HOWE:  It was huge.  It was nice for him to get through that tough situation, and they really didn't hit the ball all that hard.  It was a ground ball that turned into a double, and the walk and all of a sudden the go-ahead runs were at the plate.  And to get through the inning without them scoring, you can only give him dividends as far as the future is concerned. 
 
Q.  Art, because of the Yankees experience, even though you lead the series 2-0, how much of a threat are they with the experience they have?
 
ART HOWE:  They're a very big threat.  They're champions for a reason.  They never quit, number 1, and they've got a great pitching staff, a solid line-up from top to bottom, experience as you mentioned, and we're not taking anything for granted.  We're treating this game like a do or die type of game coming up tomorrow.  And if we continue to play as hard as we've been, we're going to have a chance.  If not, we're going to find ourselves going back to New York, and we certainly don't want to do that. 
 
Q.  Would you talk about how Johnny dealt with the first half, the people that haven't seen you play every day all year?
 
ART HOWE:  Johnny has been great from day one.  I know he struggled offensively when the season started, but it never affected his defense, tremendous defense.  And anytime he got on base, he kept battling, had the same outlook every day.  You'd think he was hitting .450, he always had a smile on his face.  He loves to play the game, and I thought it was really a big impact on our younger guys.  Just because you're not doing good, doesn't mean you can't help the team win.  And his attitude has been always great. 
 
Q.  Any thoughts to the line-up tomorrow?
 
ART HOWE:  No.  I'm going to sleep on it. 
 
Q.  This spot, up 2-0, is there anything you have to do or say to keep the mood up?
 
ART HOWE:  I don't think so.  I think we have to stay focused.  I think these young players, they know what they're up against, they know the caliber of team we're playing, and we can't give them an inch.  Like I said, a short series can turn very quickly, and we don't want to fight them getting any kind of momentum going.  Hopefully we can get off to a good start tomorrow, and get a win. 
 
Q.  Would you talk about some of the unsung heroes that may have struggled?
 
ART HOWE:  That's the way it's been all year.  Everybody has contributed to our winning ways.  And just because you're not an every-day player for us doesn't mean you're not going to get an opportunity.  And everybody gets chances on this team, and when they do they seem to come through with a big hit or big defensive play to help us win. 
 
Q.  How much of a concern are those numbers with men in scoring position, the 0 for 19?
 
ART HOWE:  No concern whatsoever.  If we haven't been winning, there would be a concern, but I think it's just a matter of time until we break through and get a few hits with men in scoring position.  I'm hoping all it takes is one. 
 
Q.  With Barry's temperament, is he best suited to taking on the challenge of knocking out a defending World Champion?
 
ART HOWE:  I don't know.  I guess we'll find out.  We're very happy with Barry going out there tomorrow.  He's got great stuff.  And if he's on his game, it should be a heck of a pitcher's duel, because Mussina will be out there battling. 
 
Q.  If someone had told you before the series that you'd be 0 for 19 with runners in scoring position, yet you'd be up 2-0, what would you have said?
 
ART HOWE:  You're dreaming.  
 
Q.  Art, can you explain or point to a couple of things that made your team so hard to beat when they're playing here?
 
ART HOWE:  I wish I knew, to be honest with you.  We just play good baseball here, and it always starts with our pitching.  Our pitching seems to do a great job in keeping us in games, and we tend to find ways to get runs on the board, and defensively we play very well here. 
 
Q.  The twilight start, does it give more of an advantage to Mussina or to Zito or does it not make a difference?
 
ART HOWE:  I don't think it makes a difference.  It's going to be tough for the hitters, period.  The lighting is going to be difficult, and these two pitchers are very good without that kind of help.  So I'm expecting a pretty low scoring game.  I'd be surprised if it wasn't. 
 
Q.  The fact that you have been still getting some runs without hits, situational baseball, and that kind of thing, is that sort of a sign of the way the team has come along in the last year or so?
 
ART HOWE:  Yes, in fact we've improved in that area of the game as the season has gone along.  Early on we had our problems, doing the little things, moving runners, getting the men.  As the second half of the season has worn on, we've improved in that area dramatically, and it's showing in this series, obviously.  We got some key runs without getting the hits. 
 
Q.  Can you glean anything from Greg Myers about Mike Mussina's tendencies?
 
ART HOWE:  That's a good idea.  I hadn't even thought of it, to be honest with you.  I may have to confront him a little bit (laughter.) He's got great stuff.  Everything he throws up there is a quality pitch, and he mixes everything up so well.  And I think that's one of his real strengths.  He has no patterns.  So you just have to be ready to swing at anything he might make a mistake with, which is very seldom.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT