AL DIVISION SERIES: ATHLETICS v YANKEES
October 11, 2001
Art Howe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Tell us about the exchange between you and Hudson when you went out to check to see if he was okay. 

ART HOWE:   Yeah, I wanted to check to go see if he had anything left in the tank.  He told me he had a lot.  I said -- I lied a little bit, I said, "This is your last hitter so give it everything you've got."    I was thinking about taking him out at the seventh when he got that big out.  I started taking opinions and votes.  I got one yea and one nay and I decided, the heck with it, I'll let him go back out there and see if he can get us through the eighth and he did.  He did a great job.  

Q.  Talk about Gant's big hit?

ART HOWE:   It was the difference in the game.  He has been big for us ever since he's come over, not only playing on the field, but his leadership in the clubhouse.  He's been a tremendous addition for us.  There's other guys that have probably gotten a lot more innings since he's come over, but he's been just as big as anybody that we've acquired during the season. 

Q.  Obviously a great performance tonight ; how do you look at Hudson's progression, to be able to come in and have such a great game tonight?

ART HOWE:   First of all I would like to talk about Andy Pettitte.  That was a tremendous performance.  We got some hits on him but he battled like he always does and kept his club right there.  We could not get a hit with runners in scoring position and that just shows how tough he is.  We tip our hat to him.  He's a tremendous competitor and great pitcher.  Equal effort from Hudson to do.  Hudson I said a couple days ago, the reason we went with him, number two, is he's always been able to gut it up for us in the big games.  Remind me of the first year we went into Arizona. He faced the Big Unit, battled him tooth and nail and beat him.  Several other times, he faced Cy Young's Pedro; he beat him 2-0 that year.  This kid gets up for big games.

Q.  You are winning these games the way the Yankees have won games in the past maybe against you last year, did you see anything showing up today that you learned last year? 

ART HOWE:   I think it's more of a maturity thing.  Being there last year, getting a taste of it and coming so close, you know, I don't know.  I wish I could put my finger on it, but I'm real proud of the way they are playing.  I'm still waiting for a hit with men in scoring position.  That would help.  (Laughs).

Q.  No matter what happens in this series, the Oakland A's have proven they are the team of the future, but Giambi is going to be a free agent.  How active a role will you play in trying to keep him in Oakland?

ART HOWE:   As active as I can.  I've already been involved, starting in spring training.  I thought we had something maybe going right then and there, but as the season has gone along, obviously the situation has changed.  I know he's going to be a free agent, but I'm praying like heck he's wearing green again next year.

Q.  What did you say to Hudson in the seventh inning and how close were you to taking him out? 

ART HOWE:   I just went out to see what he had left.  I told him at that point, you know, this is going to be your last hitter, so don't leave anything back.  Go give me everything you've got.  Then, like I said after that inning was over, I started getting an opinion from a couple of my coaches, "Do you think he has anything left?"  Checked his pitch count; it was a little over 100 at that time.  Looking at who was coming up, I just felt like he could go back out and give us another inning.

Q.  You have one game to win, but do you like the situation you are sitting in? 

ART HOWE:   Well, it's the best we could ever expect.  But we also know that they are not going to quit.  They are the champions for a reason, and we have to find a way to win one more game from them, and it's not going to be easy. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT