AL DIVISION SERIES: YANKEES v ATHLETICS
October 8, 2000
Art Howe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Can you talk about where this team was  --

ART HOWE:  No (laughter). 

Q.  -- where this team was in April compared to right now? 

ART HOWE:  Well, I guess you could just say we were almost in diapers at that time.  You know, we came to spring training after a nice season the year before.  You know, we came on strong the second half of the season the year before.  I think we were very hopeful when we went into spring training.  We were all excited about seeing what the season was going to bring us.  Obviously, we've continued to improve from last season.  We had some key injuries along the way, which showed our character.  We responded real well to it. 

Q.  Can you describe the last 17, 18 hours, for those of us who were not with you in New York? 

ART HOWE:  Well, you know, we had our backs to the wall, obviously, going into the final game there.  We got off to a great start, which was very important.  And Barry Zito pitched a solid game for us.  We kept adding on, which was great.  Looking forward to getting home.  We had a nice flight home.  Of course, the Yankees had to endure that also.  It will be interesting to see how we play tonight.  I think both clubs will respond well and play well. 

Q.  What time did you get in? 

ART HOWE:  We landed about 3:45; got to bed about 4:30. 

Q.  Who picked the movie? 

ART HOWE:  There were a couple movies (laughter).  I wasn't into watching them too much. 

Q.  I read where you were hoping to get with your hitters  -- do you feel you have a better chance tonight than you have in the past?  There was some talk you were going to talk with your hitters about how to a pitch Pettitte?

ART HOWE:  We've looked at some things.  The fact that we just faced him recently I hope would help our chances.  Normally you don't see a pitcher for several weeks at a time.  Maybe, you know, you forget about some things.  We just saw him four days ago, five days ago, whatever it was.  We're a little more familiar with what he throws, so hopefully we'll have a better opportunity to beat him.  But he's tough. 

Q.  I won't call on you to speak for 25-year-olds in general.  As for your 25-year-olds, do you think they ever get tired? 

ART HOWE:  I don't think so.  I mean, they're playing a game they love to play.  You know, I think  -- when I think about getting tired of playing baseball, you're in the wrong business if you get tired when you're 25 years old.  I was 38, I was still playing winter ball.  You've got to love to play the game.  Never get tired of playing baseball. 

Q.  Do you think the pitchers do have little bit of an advantage having come home early? 

ART HOWE:  Well, that's why each club does that.  I mean, they make sure they're well-rested because they're the ones that are going to have to use the most stamina out there, hopefully get into the latter part of the game.  Both pitchers are definitely going to be rested.  We'll see how it goes. 

Q.  Is this too tough a thing to ask for two teams to play a winner-take-all game after flying 3,000 miles, then to start the game at 5:00? 

ART HOWE:  I think both teams would rather have had an off day if at all possible.  But, you know, since both teams are in the same situation, in the same boat, I don't think it gives either team an advantage.  We're both ready to go. 

Q.  Injury update on Saenz getting hit?

ART HOWE:  Everybody's fine.  This time of year, you know, you just ignore the bumps and bruises and you go out and play. 

Q.  Did you alter your pregame routine in terms of stretching, hitting, in terms of the time?  Have you made any changes to your lineup? 

ART HOWE:  Well, we didn't really alter anything as far as our pregame routine other than it's optional hitting.  I didn't want to force anybody to have to go out there and swing a bat that really didn't want to.  The lineup was basically the same lineup I ran out there against Pettitte the other day, except a couple spots in the lineup are a little bit different, you know.  I got Grieve hitting in the eight hole, and Chavez I moved up into the sixth hole. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT