AL DIVISION SERIES: YANKEES v ATHLETICS
October 6, 2000
Art Howe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  A lot has been made about your team being inexperienced.  How do you feel they're going to react to this environment?

ART HOWE: I think they're going to react the way they've reacted all year.  They're going to play good baseball, come in, give us a shot to win. 


Q.  Can you tell us why you have so much confidence in Barry Zito?

ART HOWE: Well, I've had the opportunity to watch him pitch most of the year; you haven't.  This young man goes out there and battles.  From the minute he goes out there, he's going to do stuff and give us an opportunity to win just about every time he goes out there. 


Q.  Are you concerned about fatigue after yesterday's travel?

ART HOWE: If they feel half as good as I do, we're going to be in good shape.  I traveled right with them.  And I'm a lot older. 


Q.  As young as they are, do you tell them anything at all about what to expect in Yankee Stadium or send them out there and let them find out for themselves?

ART HOWE: Well, what's good about it is we've played here a couple times each year.  We kind of know what's at stake and what kind of crowd we're expecting.  I think they've got that experience under their belt.  They know it's going to be a fun series and the fans are going to be doing their thing with the Yankees.  So it's important for us hopefully to get a lead early and maybe take them out just a little bit. 


Q.  Do you think that's really over-rated as a factor, or do you think your team particularly will handle it well?

ART HOWE: I think for most teams it might be a factor but not for this one.  We wouldn't be here if experience was a factor.  These kids have overcome everything that they've come up against, so I don't expect them to back away from this situation. 


Q.  You and your pitcher both use the same term, this is fun, coming here.  Is that pretty much summing up the atmosphere? Instead of,  "Oohh, Yankee Stadium and nasty fans," this is going to be fun playing here?

ART HOWE: Most definitely.  That's what I told our kids when we started the series.  This is something you've earned, enjoy it because otherwise, if we put too much pressure on ourselves, we're not going to play well.  Go out, have fun, play the game the way we've been playing it all year and see where it takes us.  And your other question, I haven't  -- I'm not a big meetings man, so I've kind of just let them go.  They've been playing great.  They don't need me to come in and emphasize anything.  They know exactly what's at stake and we are having fun. 


Q.  Are you hesitant at all to put Chavez at cleanup given how rarely he's batted there? Was Tejada a consideration?

ART HOWE: I did a little research.  Chavez hit cleanup in high school or something, somewhere along the line.  Actually, against a right-hander, I decided Chavez was a better pick.  Miguel's hitting fifth, so that's not too far away from the cleanup spot.  If we were facing a lefty, it might have been Miguel.  I think Eric's got the make-up to handle it.  He's swinging the bat well.  I want somebody in that slot that's going to give us a chance to score some runs. 


Q.  Can you just go back to Zito for a little bit, talk about his emergence, what you saw when he got to you guys, what's impressed you. 

ART HOWE: Our first impression was outstanding in spring training.  He was a pitcher, he was electric in the spring.  I don't know if anybody scored off the team all year long.  He didn't make the club.  But his attitude, when I called him in to tell him he was going out, was outstanding.  He said,  "I didn't really expect to make the team, I'll go to Triple A to do the best I can and make my way here." It was just a great attitude.  Many times when somebody has a tremendous spring, they start holding out hope they'll be on the club.  But he knew he hadn't really had a full season in Triple A and he still hasn't.  He needed some more seasoning.  He went down there with a great attitude.  Before you knew it, he was in our rotation doing a great job. 


Q.  The Seattle series, you guys had a lot of pressure there, too.  You had Boston breathing down your neck, going for the division, two-down on the road.  Did you make any correlation coming in here with that?

ART HOWE: Well, I thought that was our first real big test late in the year.  We had a good win there, four-game series in Seattle.  It was a must-win situation for us.  We had Hudson start the series off, like we do here.  We have our best.  I think that's what we feel good about, we have our best guy going out there, we're just going to let it hang out and see what happens. 


Q.  Were you surprised, not surprised or no reaction to the Yankees going with I guess the same line-up as the other day?

ART HOWE: No, I'm not surprised at all.  Hey, they won with that line-up.  So why fix what's not broken?  I learned that a long time ago, out there, Danny Murtach that used to do that when I was a kid.  He made a change in the line-up and they won, that line-up was going out there until they lost the game.  Hopefully Lou will have to change his line-up tomorrow. 


Q.  Moving Chavez, taking their hottest hitter to make sure Jason Giambi gets pitched to, is that so they're not pitching around him? Is that the prime reason for that?

ART HOWE: Yeah, I mean  -- yeah, definitely.  Hopefully get Jason some pitches.  Obviously, the key is Chavez is hot and will do something defensively for us.  He has good numbers against El Duque.  So we're hoping the middle of our order can generate some offense for us. 


Q.  How much of an advantage do you think it is to you and Hudson that he hasn't faced the Yankees during the regular season?

ART HOWE: It's a give-and-take.  I don't know if there's an advantage or disadvantage.  So I'll let you know after the game. 


Q.  Do you have an impression of this place as a place to play, a place to visit?

ART HOWE: I wish I had the chance to play here.  I mean, this is an awesome stadium to play baseball in.  Obviously there's a lot of history here and I think any player that ever gets to the Big Leagues would love to play some time in Yankee Stadium.  It's a thrill, and hopefully we represent ourselves well, and we do well. 


Q.  Is it  -- does it spook some people?

ART HOWE: Not anybody in green.  (Laughter.)


Q.  Your managerial skills and your temperament during the game has been compared to Joe Torre's.  Do you take that as a compliment?

ART HOWE: Most definitely.  Joe Torre's one of the best if not the best in the game.  I have the utmost respect for Joe.  He's not only class on the field, he's class off the field and if anybody mentions me in the same sentence as Joe Torre, I'm very complimented. 


Q.  I read the other day where someone asked if you were a baseball man.  You said yeah.  In terms of that, how much have you enjoyed this group, just being with them and how much fun has it been for you just with these players?

ART HOWE: It's been great.  To be honest with you, sometimes I look in the mirror, I think I'm starting to grow hair again.  But, no, one thing about a young group, every day's new and every day is different.  You don't know what you're going to get so they keep you young and they keep you guessing.  One thing I know that they give me is a lot of effort.  That's all I've ever asked. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT