AL DIVISION SERIES: YANKEES v ATHLETICS
October 6, 2000
Art Howe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Were you feeling pretty good about your team? You guys obviously worked El Duque hard in the beginning. 

ART HOWE: Definitely.  We had some opportunities, and we felt all along we were going to pull the game out some way.  Hudson pitched a heck of a game for us.  Got a couple infield hits off of him in the second inning.  Get two runs out of it.  Only ball hit hard was Bernie Williams, leadoff double.  The kid did everything he could for us.  He battled, but he just couldn't break through. 


Q.  How much do you think the defense hurt you tonight? Has that been a problem during the season?

ART HOWE: Well, yes and no.  I mean, everybody has problems defensively at times.  But you got the one run on the error at second base on the throw I thought we might have had.  It was a good throw, I think maybe he might have taken his eyes off of it at the last second, trying to stretch out, make sure he got the out and not catching the ball. So it's baseball. 


Q.  How's Long doing?

ART HOWE: Right now, they're saying it might be a deep bruise and he might be available tomorrow. 


Q.  What do you think about the way El Duque pitched?

ART HOWE: Oh, he battled.  He didn't have the command he normally has, but he made pitches when he had to.  You have to tip your hat.  He did the job.  Like I said, I was proud of the way our young man went out and hit it himself.  He gave us a chance to win. 


Q.  Do you feel like the Yankees now, before the game, you were saying how much of a pleasure it is to play here.  Do you feel the Yankees now at Yankee Stadium is feeling like it's quite a challenge to beat here in the playoffs?

ART HOWE: Oh, it's a challenge to beat the Yankees any time.  I think they knew they were in for a real tussle tonight.  I don't think anybody's over there real relaxed about playing us.  We're going to come back tomorrow ready to play. 


Q.  Those fielders choices seemed to be the difference in the game.  Was it a case of the A's just trying to do too much, turn the double plays, get too pumped?

ART HOWE: No, we just didn't execute.  It's as simple as that.  We had our opportunities, we just didn't make plays that we can make.  I don't think it was because of the stage we were on.  We just didn't play well tonight at times. 


Q.  Are you getting frustrated or concerned with the lack of opportunities that Jason's getting to do some things offensively?

ART HOWE: No, I'm frustrated with not being able to drive him in when he's getting on all the time.  We have to relax behind him and get better pitchers.  Tonight I thought we went out of the zone quite a bit of times and helped get ourselves out.  But that's part of the learning process, too.  You have to be patient and get a good pitch because if you chase pitches out of the zone, especially against a caliber pitcher we were facing tonight, you're not going to get too many hits. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT