AL DIVISION SERIES: YANKEES v ATHLETICS
October 4, 2000
Art Howe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ART HOWE:   Started out in the Pirate organization in Salem, Virginia.  Played a year there.  I was lucky enough to lead the League in hitting that year and got advanced to AAA in Charleston, West Virginia, where I spent two and a half years before I actually got a cup of coffee with the Pittsburgh Pirates and came up in '74.  First year with Houston, ended up spending most of the time in Memphis, Tennessee, after early May, got sent out and spent the rest of the year in Memphis, came out the rest of the year and did all right.  After that, spent the rest of the time in the big leagues. 


Q.  Without being esoteric, does the term that a guy is a "baseball man" have any meaning for you? 

ART HOWE:   Absolutely.  That means a guy has spent most of his career and his whole life in the game.  And there's quite a few of them obviously in this sport.  I hope people consider me one of those. 


Q.  In any sense do you have to get your guys prepared to go into New York for a post-season game?

ART HOWE:   It's no different than a regular-season game, to be honest with you.  Even though you're going to New York, you know you're going to have a crowd that's very avid behind their Yankees and we have to come out and play very good baseball to have a chance to win there.   They are going to be very loud and noisy and get thing Yankees going no matter what the situation is.  It's going to be very exciting to see how our young players react to that to.  


Q.  In the spring, could you see these young people coming together in could you envision what was going to happen?

ART HOWE:   You could see them coming together, but I don't know if you could envision this, just yet.  I think they are a little ahead of schedule.  But I'm not complaining. 


Q.  Do you have any sense that today the atmosphere in the clubhouse is perhaps a little less tense than it was yesterday?

ART HOWE:   I think it is very similar.  I don't think there was really any -- they hit well  -- if they were tense yesterday, they hit it well for me.  They seemed to be very relaxed yesterday.  We go about every game basically the same way.  We just come out and we just try to play and enjoy it and have fun and do the best we can. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT