AL DIVISION SERIES: YANKEES v ATHLETICS
October 4, 2000
Art Howe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Did you toy with going after O'Neill because he had been so cold? 

ART HOWE:   Well, that was a consideration.  And that's why I went out there to talk about it, and we felt like our best shot was going after Glenallen, he's got that real good slider, and he had gotten him twice tonight.  And, actually, O'Neill has been there so many times in the past coming up with big hits for them, I know he has been struggling here of late, but just felt like we were not going to let him beat us, and Glenallen did. 


Q.  Can you talk about the way Pettitte pitched against you and the prospect of facing him again in the series? 

ART HOWE:   He made some great pitches when he had to.  He got some key double plays.  That first inning we had a shot at getting on the board and he had a double play there and in the seventh, I think he had another double play.  We had opportunities to get some runs in, but he made a lot of great pitches. 


Q.  The first two games have been split.  From your standpoint, what do you think the series will come down to?  What do you have to do to regain the momentum? 

ART HOWE:   I think we just have to keep pitching the way we have.  We pitched just fine the first two nights.  We just have to get some more timely hits.  First night out, we did.  Tonight, we didn't.   That was the difference.  They got a big two-out hit.  In fact, two.  That's what broke the game open they got three runs with two outs.  They were able to cash the game in and we were not. 


Q.  Is it a comfort for know that Hudson is going to be there for you in Game 3? 

ART HOWE:   Definitely.  That's why we had him slated for that game.  I just had a good feeling that it was going to be an important game.  And who else would we want on the hill for us?  Once again, we need him to go out and do a great job and I know he will battle for us and give us an opportunity. 


Q.  Do you like the composure of your two young guys, that will be pitching in Yankee Stadium now? 

ART HOWE:   Definitely.  That's why we had them slated to pitch there.  We know that they can handle that kind of situation, and we're anxious to get to New York and hopefully get some wins under our belt there.


Q.  The long ball has not happened the last two days, and you have been a home run hitting club especially at home.  Would you talk about that? 

ART HOWE:   Quality pitching tends to shut down offense.  Good pitching beats good hitting.  In this series both clubs have pitched very well and that's what happens in post-season for the most part.  Pitching is the reason that all of these clubs are here, and it shows up a lot more in the post-season. 


Q.  Are you surprised to see the lineup that Torre put out there in the beginning of the game? 

ART HOWE:   Not really.  You know, I'm sure Joe was trying to, you know, get something going for them, shake things up a little bit.  You know, for what five innings there or whatever, it looked like we were just going to be going on to the ninth inning to see who was going to win the game.  I was proud of the way we played and pitched, and they beat us tonight.  You tip your hat and get ready for Friday.


Q.  More on Joe Torre's lineup changes.  You have to have been in that situation before yourself.  Is it a move that you think was motivated out of desperation? 

ART HOWE:   I think you have to ask Joe that question.  I wasn't sitting beside him when he made out that lineup. 


Q.  Could you talk about Sojo's hitting?  He really got into the lineup because of his defense.  Would you talk about his hitting?  He's done some damage.

ART HOWE:   He's come up with some big hits for the Yankees, and in Seattle in a playoff situation.  He's been tested and he's been there.  Inside first, though, I don't know, hitting the ball down the right field ground  -- when he hits the ball everywhere, it's almost impossible to defend him.  He came up with a big hit for them. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT