AL DIVISION SERIES: YANKEES v ATHLETICS
October 2, 2000
Art Howe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Do you believe what your lineup will look like tomorrow? 

ART HOWE:   I haven't really sat down and finalized that just yet.  We'll get to that tonight when I finish our workout and see how everybody is doing on the field.   But it's going to be very similar to what you saw yesterday. 


Q.  Do you think the experience gap between the Yankees and you is a legitimate significant factor or overblown?

ART HOWE:   You know, the way we finished the season, it's just like we've been playing playoff games all the way down the stretch and we have responded very well to that.  So I'm hopeful that is going to carry us through the playoffs.  Obviously the Yankees have an edge in post season play, no doubt about it.   But it is a new season starting tomorrow, and we're hopeful that we're going to be up for the task. 


Q.  The Yankees had their big slide at the end of the season.  Does it change because we're in the playoffs and they are the Yankees? 

ART HOWE:   It's a new season for both clubs.  Both going to try to get off to a good start.  It's going to be good to play at home in front of our fans.  It was good to win yesterday and achieve the home-field advantage.


Q.  After the Giants clinched, Dusty said you talked to him, did he ever contact you  --?

ART HOWE:   Yes, he did.  He left a message on my phone.  I just heard it about a half hour ago.  He reciprocated. 


Q.  You talked about the uniqueness of the two cities and the two ballparks, and you've got four teams here that are competing, you know, New York and the Bay Area, how interesting that is? 

ART HOWE:   They are two of the best cities in the United States and two of the bigger ones.  Who knows, hopefully we can have a nice rivalry start building up here.  I know the Yankees have a big following here, an awful lot of fans here when we play well during the season we always draw well.  A lot of them come out to root for the Yankees.  We hope our fans outnumber them now though that we are in the post season.  We're going to pack this place.  I know there's going to be a lot of energy out there and I lot of excitement and I think our young kids are going to be ready.


Q.  Did this team surprise you at all? 

ART HOWE:   I think it surprised me because of some of the injuries we incurred during the season.  When you lose your DH for the whole season and your backup DH for a couple months, you know, your DH is one of your key hitters.  To lose them for that period of time and still keep going forward was huge.  We had other key injuries obviously with Velarde being out for the first month of the season.  And then Omar Olivares being out for two months as one of our starters, and then, you know  -- and the key injury, but just a short one that we were very lucky when Giambi was out for eight days.  We went 2-6 with him out of the lineup, and that showed how important he was to us.  When he came back, that's when we went off.


Q.  Speaking of Jason, seeing him getting carried off yesterday with a hero's welcome, all that kind of good stuff, what did you think of that?  Was he deserving? 

ART HOWE:   Very deserving.  I was happy that the guys did that.  They know how important he has been to us all season, and you know, I think it finally showed how much respect the Rangers had for him.  They didn't mess with him at all yesterday.  They just basically pitched around him.


Q.  Didn't that alarm you when they carried him off?  He's a big load to carry.

ART HOWE:   I was just hoping that whoever was carrying him wasn't going to get hurt. 


Q.  How does a guy like Gil, all the organizations, all the years, just find it?  What has he found that he didn't have for X number of years? 

ART HOWE:   I think opportunity.  I don't know if anybody really just said, "Gil, you're in the rotation, go get 'em."  I think he was in and out of the rotation, in and out of the bullpen throughout his career and no one ever just said, "Just say in there and keep doing it."    And when he got that opportunity, he made the most of it. 


Q.  Do you think this aura of invincibility that surrounded the Yankees for so long is starting to fade?

ART HOWE:   We hope.  That's why we're playing them.  You know, everybody is saying that they are struggling now and whatever, but if any team can turn it around, this veteran club that the Yankees have can do it.   That's why we have to keep the pedal to the metal, try to keep the pressure on them from the get-go.  They are seasoned.  They have been here more than anybody else in baseball, along with the Braves and they know what it takes to win in these situations.  Hopefully our young players will learn very quickly.


Q.  How much of a factor is the experience? 

ART HOWE:   If there was a big factor, if experience was a big factor, we wouldn't be here right now.  And just what the big factor is, how you play the game and we've played very well here down the stretch.  We're the hottest team in baseball, and we intend to take it through the next few weeks. 


Q.  Could you talk about facing Roger Clemens in Game 1? 

ART HOWE:   Well, the Rocket, we know what we're in for.  This guy is one of the best of all time and we have to be on top of our game to have a chance.  And we're just going to go out and battle and where it takes us.  The key for us is for Gil to go out and keep us in the game.  If he can keep us in the game, we can possibly find a way to get it done.


Q.  How do you find a way not to overanalyze, where young guys might try to make overadjustments to Clemens or whatever?

ART HOWE:   Like I said, these past couple weeks have been playoff games for us.  We played in front of full houses in Seattle.  We had some nice big crowds here at the end of the season in crucial situations, a lot of pressure.  There's no more pressure ahead of us than what we've gone through, I think. 


Q.  Did Giambi's numbers startle you?

ART HOWE:   This kid, if you look at him the last couple of years, he's gotten better each year.  Who knows what he's going to do next year, if that's the case, that's the trend.  I'll be very excited to sit back and watch it, though, if he continues to get even better than he did this year.  But for me, he's the MVP of this league, hands down.


Q.  What is it about him that has made him improve himself every year he's been in the League?

ART HOWE:   I think when you have success, your confidence builds, and this kid knows that he can hit anybody in this game.  He's got a great eye.  He's got discipline.  He's got power to all fields.  He's a total package offensively. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT