NCAA WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
December 14, 2016
John Cook
Justine Wong-Orantes
Amber Rolfzen
Kadie Rolfzen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We'll start with Nebraska.  We're joined by head coach John Cook as well as student-athletes Kadie Rolfzen, Amber Rolfzen and Justine Wong-Orantes.  Coach, three national titles.  This is your seventh Final Four.  Give us your opening thoughts on advancing here this weekend.
COACH COOK: Well, the first thing that pops in my mind is we played Ohio State back in October, and we made sure we drove by this Nationwide Arena here.  And it's been one of our goals.  If you see some of the hashtags 1492 for Columbus, that was kind of one of our themes to get here, but we've been working on this since January.
And this group has done an amazing job of preparing and working hard and overcoming the expectations of the pressure to get back to a Final Four.  We have a target on our back.
So just very proud of our team, and I know this is a great area for volleyball in Ohio and Columbus.  And so we're looking forward to a great tournament.  And so far we've been treated really well.
THE MODERATOR: Questions for the student-athletes.
Q. Justine, could you talk a little bit about your position, libero?  Is that a position that you were a setter in high school, so did you ever think you would be a libero?  And can you talk maybe a little bit about the physical toll it takes on the body, and even do you notice the floor of the arenas that you play on, because you're on the floor so much?
JUSTINE WONG-ORANTES: Yeah, like you said, I was a setter in high school.  I always knew in the back of my mind that I'd probably have to transition to the libero position if I wanted to go to a D-I college or even a high D-I college, but I didn't want to give up being a setter just because I loved it so much.  I was a setter, you know, basically my whole life.
But, yeah, it was just, my junior year of my club season, my club coach switched positions.  We needed to pass -- so he was, like, okay, we're going to put you in the libero position.  I was, like, I've never played libero.  So it was very different for me.  Just with my beach background, I had a little bit of experience just passing the ball, like getting a feel for it.
But other than that, that was my only experience.  But, yeah, as far as like the physical side, I mean, yeah, there's definitely times where, you know, like, Penn State just last weekend where it's going to take a toll.  But I think it's just, you know, going back into practice we work on defense every single day until we're prepared for every single day and we're prepared for long matches like that.
And so that was a great win and a great effort with every aspect of the game.
Q. Kadie and Amber, what do you feel are the biggest ways this team has improved since the start of the season?
KADIE ROLFZEN: I just think the biggest mindset that this team has is we've just embraced the fact that we play point-by-point.  And I just think even in practice whether it's one rep at a time or whatever it may be, we just really just embrace that, and every ball we have is just going to make us better.
So I don't think it's anything specific.  I just think every day we've just gone in and whether it's one percent or two percent better we just get better every single day.
AMBER ROLFZEN: I think just going off the tournament as a whole for now, the Penn State match last weekend we were down 0-2 and we went into the locker room and Coach is kind of like, okay, we're going to see what you guys are made of.  And obviously got those next three sets.
And the Washington game the next day, Coach was, like, you guys are going to pick it up a whole nuther level.  And I think that's one thing we can take away from last weekend is we did take it up a whole nuther level and I'm excited to see what we can do this weekend as well.
Q. Amber, you guys are big, but Stanford's really, really big.  If you would just give me something about having watched them.  I know you're not playing them, but --
AMBER ROLFZEN: I mean, yeah, they have probably -- they average, what, like, 6'5".  But they have a very big block.  Obviously we do as well.
I watched obviously the Wisconsin-Stanford game a little bit of the fifth set and they were just touching everything.  They were blocking everything.  Nothing could get past them easily.
Obviously we have to -- if we ended up playing them, we know what we need to do as far as playing our side of the net and not really worrying about what's on the other side of the net.
Q. And in terms of Texas and the size of their pin hitters and how they've changed a little bit on the front line since you saw them early?
AMBER ROLFZEN: So obviously they change middle, right?  What do they do?  Yeah.  I'm ready to go.
Yeah, Texas and Nebraska are always the big rivalry.  They always will be.  It's always a really great game.  And this just comes down to -- I think we don't necessarily focus on the other side that much.  It's always if you got your side together, good team chemistry, you play hard, good effort, you can always have a good outcome.  But we're ready for the Texas match tomorrow.
Q. John, you say you know Texas well and you know what they're going to do, but Texas will also know you.  Do you still prefer that matchup and your ability to prepare and execute then playing a team you hadn't?
COACH COOK: I really haven't thought about it.  I mean, this will be the third time we've played Texas in a year.  So, you know, we had to do the same with Penn State.  Potentially Nebraska could play Minnesota for a third time.  So when you get to this point in the season you're just happy to be playing.
As I told the team on Monday, only four teams get to practice.  And so we're just happy to be playing and whoever it is we're fired up and approach it the same way as we do every match.
Q. Amber or Kadie, how frustrating would it be to play against someone who digs the ball as well as Justine?  And just real quick for Justine, do you have a favorite dig?
KADIE ROLFZEN: Well, luckily we've never played against Justine.  So she's always on our side of the net in practice.  I don't know, but no it's really frustrating especially, like, other diggers on the other side of the net during practice.  Like when you're hitting the ball it's like your shot and they keep digging you.  It's just frustrating, but at the same time it makes you better because you have to figure out a new way to get a kill and score a point.
But Justine, like, reads the game better than anybody and she knows I'm tipping before I know I'm tipping.  So she's just really good at reading the whole game.
JUSTINE WONG-ORANTES: I just think one of my favorite digs is just when the hitter's one-on-one.  And I just fill the hole and just dig in.  I don't think anything is more frustrating than when a hitter is one-on-one and someone just digs it up.
Q. Amber and Kadie, we have talked before about the expectations that were on your class and you two in particular when you came to Nebraska.  If someone could go back and tell Amber and Kadie Rolfzen who were freshmen that you would win one national championship and potentially be playing for a second, would you be satisfied with that legacy?
AMBER ROLFZEN: Yeah, I would, because obviously we come to Nebraska to compete for national championships and every single year so far -- we might not have made the Final Four all four years, but obviously last year winning at Omaha in front of all those fans, nothing will beat that.  And then obviously this year we have a chance to do it again.
But you come to Nebraska to play with the best and compete with the best.  And I think we grew as players and as people.  And obviously the one national championship is good and I think either way we still have positive impact and I would be happy with what happened at the end of the year.
Q. For all the players, are any of you friends with former teammates of maybe national team stuff with any of the players from any of the three players?
AMBER ROLFZEN: Yes.
KADIE ROLFZEN: Yes.
Q. Would you tell me who those are?
AMBER ROLFZEN: So a lot of U.S.A. stuff with Chloe Collins and Nicole Dalton and well previous Texas players and then Stanford, Kelsey Humphreys.  Merete Lutz and then I haven't really played with anybody on Minnesota.  But, yeah, we still keep in contact with Chloe.  We actually talked to her this week about getting to play her one final time in college, and how we've known each other probably since eighth or ninth grade.
And so it's just kind of cool, the volleyball world is pretty small.  And you have great friendships that come from it, whether you're playing against them or on the same team as them.
JUSTINE WONG-ORANTES: It's funny, because I used to play club against the Tapps, Sarah Wilhite, Sam and Alyssa Goehner.  And I think it was in Columbus, Ohio, my junior year when I got recruited by Nebraska or first seen by Nebraska.  I played libero and we played Northern Lights, we got our butts kicked.  But, yeah, it's just funny how we played each other in club and here we are maybe get to play each other again in Columbus, Ohio.
Q. They won the championship that year?
JUSTINE WONG-ORANTES: They did.  We won the year before, though, with me setting.
KADIE ROLFZEN: And we won in Reno.
Q. Kadie, when John talks about, like, Texas and Penn State, he says they're big, physical teams.  What do you think opponents would say about playing Nebraska?  Or what would you hope that opponents would say about playing Nebraska?
KADIE ROLFZEN: I mean, I guess I would just hope that we're just a very solid defensive team just because we harp on that so much.  And they're going to really have to work hard to get a point on us, whether that be blocking or obviously hitting.  Nothing's going to hit the floor without us making them earn it.
I think that's one of our mindsets this year.  And like Justine said, we do it every day in practice.  We make it as hard as we can for them to get a kill.  That's one thing I would hope they would say about Nebraska.
Q. Kadie, today you were named All-American again, first team joining Sarah Pavan as the only four-time All-American.  What does it mean to you to be part of that?
KADIE ROLFZEN: It's exciting, but at the same time we all -- all three of us got All-American today and the same with Kelly.  I mean it's exciting but at the same time we do have, like, a big supporting cast around us.  So we're just able to go out there and we just have, I don't know.
I don't really know what it means as far as -- that was one of my goals coming in, but at the same time it's not really a team goal.  So I guess my team goal would be to win another national championship and be the first team to do it back to back.  As exciting as it is for the individual awards it's just my goal, and our goal is just to win that national championship again.
Q. Offensively what kind of floor are you guys in right now?  What kind of challenges do you expect the Texas defense to give you guys?
KADIE ROLFZEN: I think Kelly does a really good job of keeping us balanced, and I think you've seen that all year.  And Texas is physical, but at the same time that's the Big Ten as well.  Every night we go in and grind.  And I don't know.  I guess the flow is just really good, and I guess I don't really know besides that.
AMBER ROLFZEN: Kelly is just doing a really good job of being confident in herself right now and confident in all her hitters and everyone on her team.  She's making it really easy on all of us, getting us a lot of one-on-ones, and it's just flowing very well right now and going good.
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Coach.
Q. John, we just talked about Kadie earning first-team All-American, but for Justine to be named first-team All-American, that's not something that happens every year with a libero.  How gratified are you for her to get that kind of recognition?
COACH COOK: Really happy for her, because a lot of times, you know, the liberos are not recognized for what they do.  And the fact that if you make a first team, there's very few liberos that have been named first team All-American.  So I think that's just great respect for Justine and what she's done and the level that she's playing at and has played at.  So I think it's just a testament to recognizing that she's pretty good.  I'm trying to think of the last first-teamer -- was it Natalie Hagglund, maybe?  There hasn't been very many.
Q. Coach, Texas' defensive numbers aren't as impressive as yours.  Is that deceptive at all for people who haven't played against them?
COACH COOK: I'm not sure what you're asking.
Q. [Indiscernible]?
COACH COOK: Well, you know, they play in a different conference.  So it's hard for me to evaluate that.  And I just know what we have to deal with Texas.  You have to deal with athletes.
So we don't really get caught up in the numbers too much.  We look at percentages where people are going to get set, who is going to get the most balls, and just like in football, they're going to run to the right a certain amount of times; we better be able to stop it.
And we know we have some physical hitters to deal with.  And it will be a great challenge for our blocking defense.
Q. You guys obviously play in one of the best volleyball conferences in the country.  Just how does your conference schedule help you prepare for tough games like this?
COACH COOK: Well, as the players mentioned, it's a mindset.  Every week we're dealing with top 10 teams.  And so it's like a muscle that you develop.  Having to play at a high level every week.  And we were able to do it better than anybody in the Big Ten this year, which was an amazing accomplishment over 10 weeks.
So I think this group has really shown that they can compete hard at a high level every week.  And that's not easy to do in sports.  But the Big Ten requires you to do that.  Minnesota has done a great job of that.
The Big Ten Conference is very challenging.  And a lot of tough places to play.  So it is great preparation to get to this time.
Q. What stands out about the Texas freshman Micaya White since the last time you played them?
COACH COOK: I think the opening weekend, freshman, it's a whole new deal.  She's now had a whole season under her belt, 30 matches, whatever it is.  And she's a dynamic athlete.  And technically, I think she's a redshirt freshman if I'm right about that.
So she's been around for a couple of years, but she's really blossomed.  Great athlete and she's a lot more comfortable now than she was back in September.
But their team's different.  Our team's different.  Teams change over time.  And so it's a whole new match.  You can't throw anything really into that first match back in August.
Q. You said earlier this week that your girls are now chasing for something; they're going for something.  They've already got the pressure of the Big Ten off them.  They've got the pressure of getting the Final Four off them.  Do you still feel there's any pressure at all on this team to repeat?
COACH COOK: No, I think you just heard them there.  They feel really good where they're at.  They know what they're going to have to do and how challenging this is going to be.  But compared to the pressure we felt playing at Minnesota and then Penn State and Michigan to finish up the Big Ten and then playing Penn State again two weeks later in the tournament, I mean, there's nothing that can rival that.  Nothing.  And so I think getting through that is -- we know that there's not going to be more pressure here, and we're not feeling it.
So I think they're in a good place with that.  But you cannot -- there's no way we could ever recreate that, because once you're in the Final Four there's four teams left and whoever can put two great matches together is going to win it.  And so it's exciting to be here.  And the other thing for -- this is not a typical Big Ten match or a typical NCAA match.  There's all this other stuff going on.
I mean, it's really hectic.  And it almost feels like volleyball's -- it is the focus for us.  We're trying to keep it the focus but you've got all this other stuff going on.
And we've got to do a good job managing that.
Q. Coach, last two weekends you played in front of sold-out crowds at the Devaney Center.  How different do you expect the atmosphere to be here at least from a Nebraska perspective?
COACH COOK: I know we'll have a good following we always do.  I heard from all the fans we'll see you in Columbus six months ago.  So that will be exciting to have support.  But it will be interesting to see if the Columbus fans and the Ohio fans root for the Big Ten teams.
I know last year in Omaha, the Nebraska fans were cheering for Minnesota.  And so we'll see if there's any Big Ten loyalty to the Huskers.
Shouldn't feel anything about football, so we should be good to go.
Q. What do you think opposing teams would say about Nebraska after playing or what do you hope that opposing teams would say after playing or studying Nebraska?
COACH COOK: That we're well-coached.  We're well-disciplined.  We are balanced, hard to defend.  We do all the skills well and we're just a really good volleyball team that has fun and is playing together.  That's what we're striving for.
Q. You use that word fun again, have you noticed the way the team feels this week, is it different than going into the Penn State match last week?  Are they carrying it well?
COACH COOK: I think, yeah, I think it's definitely a different feel.  Like I said it's hard to put in words or recreate how much pressure we felt on that Penn State match.  And, of course, I knew how good Penn State was.
Look at the All-American.  They've got two first team All-Americans and they're fourth in our conference.  Just shows you the talent they have.  And so for us I think it was great preparation to get to this moment.  Again playing potentially -- we haven't seen Stanford, but this will be the third time in the year we've played Texas and we've already played Minnesota twice.
So I think it was great preparation to get to this point.  So I think -- as I said it's an experienced group.  They know what they've got to do and I think they feel pretty good with knowing that.
Last year was kind of a get to Omaha and that was the goal.
Q. With how much of Texas you've seen over the last year, do you feel it's been easier for you this week as coaches knowing how to game plan for them since you've seen them so much over the past calendar year?
COACH COOK: Texas, they're not that complicated to prepare for.  They have athletes and you have to stop them.  And so it's not like we have to go reinvent a whole new game plan or do stuff like that.
It's just more of making sure our players are understanding what we're going to deal with and they're going to do some things we probably can't stop and try to get them to understand how we can beat them by three games by two points.  And so that's the mindset.
So it's line it up and here they go.  And that's how they've always been.
Q. You're closing in on 500 wins as a Nebraska coach.  Obviously that's not something you're thinking about right now, but how have you grown as a coach during your time here at Nebraska and what have you learned about yourself and this program?
COACH COOK: Wow.  Probably I think the biggest thing for me is I'm probably enjoying this group and this Final Four more than some of the other ones because I think when you are trying to get there and trying to win a national championship you feel like you've got to prove yourself and you don't really enjoy it.
And in 2000 when we won, there was no joy because it was my Wisconsin team that we played in the finals.
2006 was pretty cool because it was in Omaha, but you're so stressed out about getting to Omaha.  I mean, again I keep saying it's unbelievable amount of pressure when you're hosting a Final Four.  I'd be curious how Ohio State players feel knowing the Final Four was here in Columbus, trying to get to it and they made a great effort in the NCAA tournament.
Heck of a match against Wisconsin they had.  And so I think the biggest thing is just enjoying it more, having a better perspective on things.  And probably a great appreciation for what our players go through and we've got players taking finals today.
They've got to practice.  They've got to do all this.  They have a banquet tonight.  Talk about multi-tasking.  But just appreciation and trying to enjoy it and so I think that's because I realize I know how tough it is to get here.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT