U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 28, 2008
Helen Alfredsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







FULL AUDIO INTERVIEW

  
Q. What was the difference today? What was the feeling  
like?
 HELEN ALFREDSSON: Well they were pretty similar, I think. Pretty solid game. I made some putts and I was never really in trouble. And today when I was in trouble, maybe I was a little more in trouble today than yesterday but I was able to recover, which was nice.
 
  
Q. Did you think about that last night when you went to bed that  
you were actually --
  
HELEN ALFREDSSON: No, I was so tired after finishing at 9:15 so  
I didn't have any -- we just went straight to bed when we got home.
 
  
Q. Have you been able to take a look around in this area when  
you came here like being a tourist at all?
 HELEN ALFREDSSON: No, no. You don't have time for that at the U.S Open. We were here for the Solheim so we kind of saw a little bit more then. So I am kind of a little bit familiar with this area.
 
  
Q. Do you remember lots of shots from back then?
 HELEN ALFREDSSON: Oh, yeah. No, it was very different because it was in the fall. So it was dark and wet and -- but of course I love this golf course and so remember most of it.
 
  
Q. So what about the strategy today? Did you change  
anything from yesterday?
  
HELEN ALFREDSSON: No, just trying to hit the good shots, make  
the right decisions and hopefully you can execute to that level. 
 
  
Q. What does this chance tomorrow mean to you at this stage in  
your career?
 HELEN ALFREDSSON: To be very honest I don't really think so much about it. I've been so close in this event and I've been very high and very low.
  
And I think that particularly having not played as enormously well  
maybe or last year I was injured and then coming back, I just enjoyed  
the moment. It sounds so cliche, but it's something to be said  
about it when you haven't been able to enjoy the moment. To play  
with J.J. and Paula are two great players and we had a lot of  
fun. Those are very precious moments when you get to my age. 
  
(Laughter.) 
 
  
Q. Do you enjoy the pressure that comes with it?
 HELEN ALFREDSSON: Do we ever enjoy the pressure? Well, I guess you do in a way. It takes you hopefully to a different level in focusing.
 I  
think also it helps when we had a very nice group today. We were  
chatting in between and it makes it a little bit more relaxed if you  
just aren't all three walking on their own side and not saying a word.  

 
  
Q. It's better if you can avoid Paula's bag?
 HELEN ALFREDSSON: I mean it always happens and why does it happen on 9? An always happens to me. But I'm just used to it now. I don't even bother with it any more.
 
  
Q. How much better could this round have been?
 HELEN ALFREDSSON: You could always make some putts, you always feel, and obviously last putt I could have made.
  
But then I made some good recoveries and I think it's hard, I don't  
really have a great sense of disappointment or anything today. I  
did what I could and I didn't feel like I made a lot of wrong  
decisions, which I think is some of the worst that you regret a lot of  
times that you make bad decisions out there. 
  
My caddie and I we discussed a few things and I think we always took  
the right club, which was -- those are very -- because that creates  
some momentum. 
 
  
Q. This week your expectations, obviously you want to do well,  
but does it take some of the pressure off just not knowing what's  
going to come about?
 HELEN ALFREDSSON: Of course it does. But you don't -- obviously I haven't played anywhere near what I should be doing, what I feel. And I played quite well last week. I've been -- I'm third in greens in regulation for the year, so -- and that's a pretty good number. It means that you're hitting fairways and greens, obviously the putting has been a little bit iffy so it's been a pretty steady year. I just haven't been able to show anything for it.
  
But it's nice. It's nice to be able to play good in a U.S. Open  
because it's a big part of the game. You have to have every part  
of the game. You have to chip well, you have to do different  
things, it's not just about putting.
 
  
Q. What are you going to do tonight?
  
HELEN ALFREDSSON: Probably eat. Having dinner with friends  
and relax. Hopefully. 
 
  
Q. Think much about tomorrow?
 HELEN ALFREDSSON: No. I think hopefully something has, you know, experience has to do with it. You can't sit and play tomorrow, because then you'll be exhausted tomorrow. So just, I stay with some very nice people and good friends and that helps a lot. To talk about everything but you and your game.
  
(Laughter.) 
  
Even though of course it's nice to talk about me, but. No.  
I'm just kidding. 
  
(Laughter.) 
 End of FastScripts 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT