U.S. SENIOR WOMEN'S OPEN
May 17, 2019
Helen Alfredsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What was different today than yesterday?  
HELEN ALFREDSSON: I don't know, I think you never get used to it here.  But you kind of get more aware of what you have to do.  I mean, it is such an intimidating place.  You know, the greens and everything, and you never relax.  I think maybe that's it.  And then the tees were -- they were kind to us.   
 Q.  Do you think it's learning to back off a little bit on this golf course and not trying to attack it?  
HELEN ALFREDSSON: Exactly.  You know you can't attack some of these pins, exactly, so you don't put yourself in compromising situations.   
 Q.  Do you think going into the weekend it'll continue where par is going to be a good score?  
HELEN ALFREDSSON: Well, I mean, if they keep the tees where they are, the tees are very, very kind, which makes more a shorter shot in, which obviously is a lot easier on this golf course.   
 Q.  A blemish-free card, that's outstanding on this golf course.  Were there any par saves that were probably better than the birdies you made?  
HELEN ALFREDSSON: Yeah, I had a brain fart on 16 -- no, 15.  I was going to lay up with a 5-iron and I almost hooked it out of bounds.  I was underneath the trees there with a bunker, but I managed to roll it up on the the green and two-putt.  I still made it on the green, but it was still not just an easy, straightforward par.   
 Q.  How about the position at the top of the leaderboard, what's that say to you?  
HELEN ALFREDSSON: You know what, I've been there a few times in the U.S. Opens, and it's not something that you should ever think about because any time you play U.S. Open golf courses and particularly at a place like this, you've just got to focus on what you have to do.  It can change so quickly.   
 Q.  It's supposed to be very hot on the weekend, and you're one of the best conditioned athletes out here right now.  Is that something to your advantage?  
HELEN ALFREDSSON: Yeah, that probably could.  I've tried to keep myself in good shape physically, and it helps, obviously, because I think most of us don't hang out walking.  The golf cart is very easy except when I'm in Sweden, then we have to walk.  So I do some walking in golf.  But Florida, there is not a lot of walking.  Thank God for these soft shoes now.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT