THE SOLHEIM CUP
October 22, 1994
Helen Alfredsson
Lisolette Neumann
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LISELOTTE NEUMANN: I think it was A really  good match, some really good golf. It was exciting up  to the end.  I think Patty put a lot of pressure on us,  she played really good golf these last couple of holes  that, you know, just barely missed a couple of putts  and, you know, Helen made that last putt.  What can I  say?  

HELEN ALFREDSSON: 4 footer that I had,  probably -- it was funny, we both had the same  thoughts.  We were standing in Dalmahoy two years ago,  we both had probably about five, six footers to win the  match.  And I don't even know that she is thinking  about it, but I am thinking the same, well, she is  going to make hers -- no.  Here I am, having another  one but, you know, it is a great feeling when you make  them.  


Q.  Buying putters or selling putters?  

HELEN ALFREDSSON: You want some?  No, these  are just winning putters.  


Q.  What about the singles matches tomorrow, do  you have any thoughts on who you might play or will  play or anything like that?  

HELEN ALFREDSSON: I wouldn't have -- I mean,  I feel so dizzy right now.  Oh, we are playing  tomorrow?  


Q.  I hear that.  

HELEN ALFREDSSON: Oh, you hear that.  I have  a tee time Monday.  I think I am going Monday.  No, actually, I have no idea how Mickey, you  know, she did a very good job last year and whatever  she decides how we are going to play, that is how we  are going to play.  I am sure that she knows how she  wants it.  


Q.  Helen, is there someone you would like to  play?  

HELEN ALFREDSSON: Who would I like to play?  You? Oh, from the team.  No, really.  You know, it is a  very tough team.  I don't think I could say I would  like to play a particular person.  I think it is -- you  know, we are such good friends, really not something to  feel that -- I mean, it is a hard question.  I really  can't answer that, who I would really love to play?  I  mean, if it would be "someone to play with," that would  be easier.  If we are going to win, we have to beat  them, so whoever is going to be up there, I am going to  give it my best.  


Q.  Same goes for you.  

LISELOTTE NEUMANN: Same for me?  It is no one  really special that I want to play.  Anyone is fine.  


Q.  Since it is tied, how important is it for  either team to get off to a good start?  

LISELOTTE NEUMANN: I think it is very  important.  


Q.  Is it more important than a good finish,  though?  

LISELOTTE NEUMANN: Either way.  I think it is  just going to pretty much come down to the last two  matches tomorrow, probably.  So -- but I think it is  important, you know, for the players teeing off in the  end to see Europe on the score boards tomorrow on the  first couple of matches, kind of get us going and pump  us up a little bit.  

HELEN ALFREDSSON: I think that is how we all  felt like when we won in Dalmahoy.  All of a sudden you  look up on the 7th hole and I think at that point we  probably have about what, 8 blues or 7 blues, I mean  that gives you a very nice feeling that everybody is  fighting hard and trying to do it.  So I think that is  what we are going to try to do.  


Q.  How will you cope if there are seven reds up  there?  

HELEN ALFREDSSON: That is good because we are  in red this year.  

LISELOTTE NEUMANN: Perfect.  


Q.  If you looked up and see the Americans are  ahead in 7 or 8 matches, how do you cope with that  because it's a -- rather than exploding like Dalmahoy?  

HELEN ALFREDSSON: I think Dalmahoy was a  little different because we came from losing so badly  the first -- I think now we have one more year of  experience and you trust the players and, you know,  that things can turn around.  The matches have been  very even except one today.  So, you know, that things  could turn around so quickly, particularly around this  golf course.  We are not making all that many birdies,  and you know, so anything can happen.  I think Dalmahoy  was just so special because we were so young and it was  basically the first time we were really in it.  


Q.  Tell us what preparing -- you did so well  today, it would appear you didn't do so quite so well  today?  

HELEN ALFREDSSON: It is totally different.  Yesterday you play each other's shot. If you don't  really feel very comfortable in the beginning, it is  very hard to get into the game.  Whereas today, you  know, you can play your own game and I think, you know,  we know each other pretty well so we support each  other.  And if it's something like well, do you think I  should go or should I take the chance here and you do  that.  Yesterday if one of you is not playing, you  know, hitting it as solid, it affects the game much  more than it would be in a game today.  

LISELOTTE NEUMANN: Obviously I played awful  yesterday, so, you know, it wasn't much for Helen to  do.  She played really well.  But it was just nice for  me to come out today and I felt really comfortable  right off the start and, you know, I think we were both  really pumped out there, and just played really hard.  


Q.  What did you do to recover, because you  didn't play well yesterday?  How did you --  

LISELOTTE NEUMANN: I just kind of -- the same  mistake that I always do and I think, you know, the  little nerves and then not being able to kind of play.  I felt like I was hitting a shot every 15 minutes and I  never really got a chance to kind of think about it and  work on it.  I was putting like two hours on the  driving range in the afternoon yesterday, figured it  out and it is back to normal.  


Q.  What was it?  

LISELOTTE NEUMANN: Just my take-away.  


Q.  Were you usually nervous?  I mean, you talk  about feeling nervous, but were you more nervous than  you expected to be?  

LISELOTTE NEUMANN: Yeah, I think some.  I  think I was a little bit more nervous than you are in a  regular tournament.  


Q.  Why?  I mean, you have been through this  before?  

LISELOTTE NEUMANN: Yeah, but I think it is  only human, I think, to be nervous when you stand on  the first tee and obviously we are the first group off  and, you know, it is -- I think it is pretty normal.  


Q.  You said you're more nervous.  

LISELOTTE NEUMANN: Than what?  


Q.  Than you expected to be.  

LISELOTTE NEUMANN: Yeah, well, it's is like  you never know until you stand on the tee and you see  all the people around and everything and you feel the  pressure.  


Q.  How many Swedish people are there here?  Supporters and family and friends and so on.  

LISELOTTE NEUMANN: I don't know.  A lot.  


Q.  Enough to make enough noise so you know they  are there?  

LISELOTTE NEUMANN: Oh, yeah.  

HELEN ALFREDSSON: I think we are all very  disciplined and calm, people in Sweden, so I don't know  what you are pointing at there.  I don't have a clue.  Calm and collected, Swedes.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT