U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 22, 1994
Helen Alfredsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 HELEN ALFREDSSON:  My first birdie I had on 7.  It was a 5 footer,
I had a, I think, 6-iron in on that hill to 5 feet.  I birdied
12.  I had a sand wedge in.  That was-- I don't know how long
that was-- probably about a 36 feet, probably, that putt, up the
hill.  Then I bogeyed a I 5-wood on 13; hit it to the right, chipped
it in; 2-putted.  And on 18, I hit an 8-iron to four feet, made
the putt.

 Q.  How much break was there on the putt at 12?

 HELEN ALFREDSSON:  Probably about-- what is it -- six feet.

 Q.  It was a big curly thing?

 HELEN ALFREDSSON:  Yeah, it was a big curly one.

 LES UNGER:  How would you describe the differences today and
yesterday in your play?

 HELEN ALFREDSSON:  Always hard to follow a day like yesterday,
you know, I played pretty well.  It was funny because I missed
about three five-footers in the beginning, first 6 holes, so I
was feeling like I was stroking the ball a little better; getting
closer to the pin today, but I didn't really make the putts, so
I mean, to have a round like yesterday, it is so typical.  Putting
is the one that is working.  I think the wind was a little bit
stronger today than yesterday, which made some holes a little
bit longer and a little bit more difficult.  But otherwise, you
know, for myself, I just didn't make the putts that I did yesterday.

 LES UNGER:  You are feeling pretty good about things; I would
take it?

 HELEN ALFREDSSON:  Yeah, can't complain; so far so good.

 Q.  You said you didn't know what your mood was going to be
this morning.  What was it like and how was it after you missed
those five-footers?

 HELEN ALFREDSSON:  Well, I stayed pretty steady, I have to say.
It was funny because we got off dinner yesterday at 10:30; I am
thinking, geez, this is long working hours, and then you have
to get up again at 8.  I was a little tired this morning, actually,
but I felt pretty good, and coming out obviously it was a little
frustrating to miss some of those shorter putts, you know, that
is what happens; you got to keep your patience and, you know,
keep playing and, you know, it paid off at the end.

 Q.  Seem to be quite a few distractions out there today, I
mean, not the same cameramen  as maybe they had yesterday --

 HELEN ALFREDSSON:  Yeah.  Even on the first hole I am sitting
there and I am just about to take my putter back; somebody is
just clicking right there.  I think, you know, you don't want
to hear it, but you do, and then you think, well, should I stop
or should I not.  So much time passes; you have to step back and
I mean, that is a part of it.  Sometimes you wish that they know
when to click and when not to click.  I mean, particularly if
they are close enough so we can hear it.  I mean, it was a few
occurrences like that today.

 Q.  That putt at number 1, it was only about four feet; wasn't
it, five feet?

 HELEN ALFREDSSON:  Five feet.

 Q.  Did you hit the hole with that?  I couldn't see from where
I was --

 HELEN ALFREDSSON:  No, it never found the hole anywhere.

 Q.  What about 5 and 6, those were both close too; weren't
they?

 HELEN ALFREDSSON:  Yeah, those were not very good putts, period.
So you know, it is really not much to say.  I guess I took the
line and I don't know if I didn't have-- I did have focus or concentration,
but they were just not good putts.  I was just trying to figure
out why.  All three of them went on the left side.  I did something
consistent.

 Q.  Could you translate what you said on 6 after you missed
that putt?

 HELEN ALFREDSSON:  Did I say something?  Well, I don't think
so. Things are better unsaid; we all know that.

 Q.  Did something happen on the 13th tee?  Short hole?

 HELEN ALFREDSSON:  Oh the par 3 hole?

 Q.  Yeah.

 HELEN ALFREDSSON:  No, I just hit the right -- a bad shot.  I
wish I could blame it on something, but you can't always.

 Q.  I got here late.  Did anyone ask you if the course was
tougher?

 HELEN ALFREDSSON:  I think it did play a little tougher today.
Maybe if -- seems like it was a little bit heavier, the ball didn't
release as much and also the wind picked up a little bit; some
holes into the wind, coming down the end, are uphill, and it is
pretty tough, so. . .

 Q.  What about the pin placements in the greens?

 HELEN ALFREDSSON:  I think the pins were in good positions today.
 You've got to know the greens.  You got to know where the humps
are.  You've got to know what side to be on; it is up to you to
know what you are doing.  I mean, obviously if you are on the
wrong side and you can think it is a bad pin position, but you
shouldn't be on that side, so...

 Q.  They weren't any tougher, in general?

 HELEN ALFREDSSON:  No, I think they were very fair.  I think
they were good pin positions today.

 Q.  Must be very satisfying to play that well after yesterday?

 HELEN ALFREDSSON:  Yeah, it was.  Actually, it's hard when you
come off and I started with two birdies yesterday and sometimes
you just think about at this stage yesterday I was 4 under and
then here 5 under and -- but you just got to let that go, because
it is not often, I mean, I haven't really been shooting that low
scores this year, so I don't really have much to fall back on.
 So just try to go out and it is a new day and whatever it is
going to give me today, I take it.

 Q.  You had an albatross a couple of weeks ago at the 18th.
 What was the tournament?

 HELEN ALFREDSSON:  Hennessey Cup in Germany.

 Q.  Where in Germany?

 HELEN ALFREDSSON:  In Cologne.

 Q.  Where did you finish?

 HELEN ALFREDSSON:  Fourth.

 Q.  What were you in relation to par?

 HELEN ALFREDSSON:  I don't know.  Do you remember?  9 under?


 Q.  No, I have got it with me.

 HELEN ALFREDSSON:  7, something like that.

 Q.  You played how many events overseas?

 HELEN ALFREDSSON:  I only played two so far.

 Q.  Helen, can you comment have you ever been in a position
that Patti Sheehan was in?  She finished yesterday on 18 with
a birdie; was tied for the lead at minus 5.  Before she even tees
off today she is five strokes back.  Have you ever been in a position
where you are tied for the lead; you finish one day, and the next
day before you even start you are like 4, 5 shots back,? Can you
imagine what must be going through her head?

 HELEN ALFREDSSON:  No, I mean, she has three more rounds to go.
She is a superb player.  She has been in this situation. She has
seen the worst of the Open and the best of the Open, and you know,
she knows what she needs to do to be out here.  I mean, she is
a great player, and it is different.  I don't think she really
thinks about it. It's a long ways to go still.  I think she is
just going to go out and play her best golf.

 Q.  What separates a day like today and a day like today;
was it the putter?  I mean, yesterday was pretty unusual.  Was
it strictly putting or was it other things too?

 HELEN ALFREDSSON:  It is very hard.  I think yesterday I was
very focused, but it is very hard to say.  It is not to not sound
humble or anything, but it is a day where you just go on and you
do your business; you make a couple of putts and then you go on
and you make another few putts and all of a sudden you are 6 under;
then you are 7 under and 8 under and you don't realize what you
are doing.  I mean, it wasn't probably my best striking day, I
mean, as far as ball hitting, but I was making a few putts.  I
wasn't in trouble and I got in close a few times and I made --
it is very hard to explain a day like yesterday because it feels
so simple, like it is so easy, because nothing special happened.
 You make a few putts. Besides, I didn't make any bogeys, which
makes it much easier.  Today, it's was little bit more -- you
were more aware of things, you know, and you know exactly where
you were.  Yesterday, everything was just floating.  It is hard
to explain a day like yesterday because it is just there, you
know, you just -- you know, trotting on.  I don't know how you
say it in English, but you just keep going.

 Q.  Is this in any sense a day where you shoot the '60s; it
turned out to be a letdown if there is such a thing?

 HELEN ALFREDSSON:  It is never a letdown to shoot in the '60s.
No, I mean, I am very happy for yesterday, you know, and I am
pretty happy today with a 69.  It played a little tougher today
and sometimes it is hard to come off a round like yesterday, you
know, because you have a lot of expectations and you might sometimes
lose a little patience because, you know, yesterday I have got
all these putts in, you feel -- and now, you are not getting putts
that you think should be getting in.  You have to forget about
that.  That is a day that passed you and you are you are happy
with that and today is a new day.

 Q.  Last year you dominated early, Helen, you are dominating
again.  Is it more fun this year?

 HELEN ALFREDSSON:  I don't know.  It is hard. I haven't -- last
year I was playing much better up until this point, you know,
and I had some much better finishes.  I guess, you know, coming
in now I haven't really been producing that much, so you know,
it is kind of a nice feeling to know that you can still shoot
some of those scores, and I just take whatever it is right now.
 I don't really have any expectations because, you know, last
year I won and I finished third and second a few times coming
in here, so I knew I sort of had the game with me during the year
and I haven't really felt that so far this year, you know, I guess
it is more fun in that sense because you can enjoy it better.


 Q.  Is that feeling coming back?

 HELEN ALFREDSSON:  Not yet, but I guess hopefully.

 Q.  Helen, how will you approach tomorrow especially if you
go out there with a 4, 5 shot lead; will that make any difference
to you?

 HELEN ALFREDSSON:  No.  I am just -- I just need-- I think it
is even more important to just focus on your game and what you
need to do and not thinking what everybody else is doing, I need
to be on top of my game in order to do what I need to do, and
not to worry so much.  I think when you start worrying, it is
the last nine and the last day.

 Q.  What would it be like if -- Alcott is a good friend of
yours.  What would it be like possibly, you know, shooting it
out with Amy for the championship especially if you were paired
together?

 HELEN ALFREDSSON:  You know, I think we talked about that very
often because especially when I won the Dinah and she was very
nice with me, and you know, we practiced and hang out sometimes
in L.A., but we both know when we step on that golf course, we
are head to head.  We both try to win, and I think you need to
know that even if it is a friendship and you are out here and
you are good friends, but when you step out, this is what we do
for a living and this is what we love to do and we also love to
win tournaments and that way you have to separate the friendship,
and the competitiveness out here and it is nothing wrong.  It
is nothing against her personally.  It is just that I am trying
to win a tournament and I know that she does too - probably more
so with her.

 Q.  Do you leader board watch and what about Sunday when you
are in contention?

 HELEN ALFREDSSON:  I will.  I will probably watch.  If I feel
like I want to, I do.  I don't see why I shouldn't.  I know some
people think that you shouldn't, but I am not that type.

 Q.  Will it enter your mind at all that you have arrived at
the point where it is time to play safe and go for the fat part
of the green, if there is a question in your mind at all, because
you are 10 under now?

 HELEN ALFREDSSON:  We still have two more days.  I mean, maybe
if I come down the last nine, yes, I might think about that, but
right now, no, because sometimes the more defensive you try to
play, the more defensive you get and you make a few bogeys and
then, you know, because you are not aggressive enough, you are
not making any birdies, so I think you just got to keep playing
and I mean, if you are coming down the last few holes on Sunday
and you feel like you need to do that, well, that is the decision
that needs to be made then.

 Q.  Have you been playing extra aggressive at all these first
two rounds or is it just your game?

 HELEN ALFREDSSON:  No, it is just my game.

 Q.  When are the Swedes due to arrive here?  They don't seem
to be any here yet.

 HELEN ALFREDSSON:  I guess they are have all gone since the soccer.
 They are all tired, home taking a vacation. They have run out
of paint.

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT