COLLEGE WORLD SERIES
June 26, 2018
Pat Casey
Trevor Larnach
Christian Chamberlain
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Arkansas - 4, Oregon State - 1   
PAT CASEY: Well, you know, we give a lot of credit to the pitching for Arkansas.  I thought they threw the ball real well.  The game doesn't change.  We put 10 runners on base, and that makes it difficult.  Christian was outstanding.  He pitched like a man, kept us right where we needed to be, and we needed to be there.   
 Q.  Trevor, that kind of swing of momentum a little bit in the fourth and the fifth, there was of course the double play call, the interference, did you feel like the momentum switched a little bit there?  Did the team just not respond well to that?  
TREVOR LARNACH: No, I don't think the momentum really switched.  I think we've dealt with it before in this tournament, and we've learned from it.  Just wipe it and move on.   
 Q.  Christian, just what was it like being out there, experiencing that coming into such a big moment and excelling the way that you did tonight?  
CHRISTIAN CHAMBERLAIN: I mean, it's just baseball.  It's the same game no matter the stage.  Obviously there's not going to be a better stage you're going to throw on, but it's the same game, doesn't matter where you're at.   
 Q.  Trevor, you guys had some opportunities there again tonight.  Looked like you got a couple good swings off of him.  What is it that that guy does that makes it hard to break through and get the offense really going?  
TREVOR LARNACH: I think he did a pretty solid job commanding his off-speed.  Some of our guys were off balance, had some of our guys (indiscernible).  That's baseball.  If you can command everything, it's pretty tough.  You know, I think we could have done better in some areas, but like I said, it's baseball.   
 Q.  Pat, looked like Luke at least got into a good rhythm early in the game.  What happened there in the middle of the game when he started to lose a little bit?  
PAT CASEY: I think that was it.  He started to lose it.  He didn't throw the ball where he needed to, and it kind of -- it was -- I don't know, I don't have an answer for that.  He'd been real good all year long, and certainly really struggled in that inning.   
 Q.  The call in the fourth inning, the explanation that you got from the umpire, it seemed like you weren't satisfied with that, and how much of a factor do you think that played?  
PAT CASEY: Yeah, I don't agree with his explanation.  It appeared Rutsch was doing everything he could to get out of the way.  The ball left the guy's hand.  They weren't near one another, so I don't agree with the call, but I don't -- it's certainly not something that I'm going to say that affected us or affected the game.  It certainly could have -- well, it did affect that inning.  We had that run taken off the board right there, so that makes it tough.  We've got a guy on first base with a two-run lead and one out, so everybody can look at the tape and decide for themselves what they think.   
 Q.  In the bottom of the fifth, there was another play that was challenged and then overturned, and it seemed like that could have led to another run.  How do you deal with the things that you can't really control in a game like this?  
PAT CASEY: Well, it's been difficult for us.  We've had -- it seems there's some things that I can't control that haven't gone our way, so we've just got to do a better job of trying to get through those things.  And since we can't control them, we've really just got to get to the next pitch and the next at-bat and try to handle that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT