THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 24, 2000
Omar Uresti
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








OMAR URESTI: Yeah.

OMAR URESTI: Well, actually starting this morning on 17 I had dumped it in the water,
hit a really poor shot. Able to hit sand wedge up there about four feet; made the putt for
bogey. That kind of got my day going, at least there, a halfway decent direction by
getting up-and-down there. Then starting the second nine, started on No. 10. , made a good
up-and-down on 10. Hit my drive in the right rough. Hit it short, and got up-and-down from
about 20 yards. Made about a 4-, 5-footer for par there. Then 11, I got up-and-down from
left of the green for birdie. So almost made my pitch shot. Actually went to about eight
inches. Tapped that in for birdie. 12, I hit a good drive. Hit a wedge up there, oh, about
four, five feet past the hole; knocked that in for birdie. 13, hit 8-iron, and it landed
just on the side of the slope and rolled down towards the hole about six feet from the
hole; made that. So I was pretty fortunate. Then, let's see, 14, hit a good drive. I hit
-- I was in between clubs. I tried to hit a hard 9-iron, didn't quite catch, it plugged in
the bunker short. I hit that out by twelve feet; made the putt for par. So I was -- that
kind of kept me in there again. Then made a good par on 15. 16, hit it just short of the
green in two. Hit a little -- my putt almost made that. So I tapped that in for birdie.
Then parred 17 and 18. And No. 2, 3-wood off the tee because I figured I could still reach
it in two with a 3-wood. I was able to hit a little draw with that. Right, just short
right of the green. 5-wood, hit my putt by or my chip by about seven, eight feet; and
knocked that in for birdie. No. 3, the wind was a little tricky. All three of us in the
group came up well short of the green, and it was kind of a tough little chip shot from
down there, being just short, hit it by twelve feet; missed that putt, left it short right
in the heart, but other than that, hit a couple -- hit a good pitch shot. I thought it
just took off; then the putt was just not quite hard enough. Got up-and-down on 4 from
just over the back edge. Pretty happy with that. Then No. 5, didn't hit enough club on my
second shot. Came up well short in the right, pitched it past the hole about six, seven
feet; chipped my putt a little bit hard for the line that I hit it on; went by, so I made
bogey. Then I get to 6, hit wedge on -- didn't quite hit it like I wanted to, but I had
like a 25, 30-footer; somehow I made that. Then we get to No. 7. I hit a pretty good drive
down there, hit my 5-wood up there about seven feet from the hole. I thought I hit a good
putt, just misread it. It stopped breaking on me halfway there, so made par. 8, really
good up-and-down from well right of the green. Made about a 5-footer for par there. 9,
rolled in a 12-footer for par. I kind of struggled on 9, hit it just in the short cut, hit
3-wood right, in the rough, thought I hit a 9-iron out there; thought I hit a good shot
released to the back edge, difficult chip, rolled it up to the green, made a difficult
par.

Q. What were you thinking when that first ball went in the water?

OMAR URESTI: Actually I just kind of laughed because I have done that before on that
hole and made bogey, so I wasn't too, too worried.

Q. Happy you didn't have to play yesterday with the conditions --

OMAR URESTI: I thought I was until this morning because the wind was still blowing. It
didn't seem to let up overnight.

Q. How many holes did you have to play this morning?

OMAR URESTI: Two, 17 and 18.

Q. 17 is your first hole of the day, is that something you spend the night thinking
about?

OMAR URESTI: Actually I didn't really think about it at all. Maybe I should have
(laughs).

Q. This putting streak you had on the Nike Tour, from where to where?

OMAR URESTI: The birdie streak?

Q. Yeah.

OMAR URESTI: Started on the 4th hole and went through No. 12. Then I had parred 13 and
I birdied 14, so, I made 9 in a row, then birdied 10 of 11.

Q. Did you have any indication a round like this was on the horizon?

OMAR URESTI: The past few weeks my game has gotten a little better and it is just a
matter of getting the confidence and everything going, so I knew I was close to it and I
am glad it is this week so far.

Q. What was key to the round today that you put yourself in good position in the
fairway, good iron-play, good putting?

OMAR URESTI: So far this week I have made five putts that have been about 30 feet or
longer for birdies and actually four for birdies and one of them for pars. So right now it
has been my putting and when I have missed shots, they haven't been on the short side of
the green where I have had a tough chip shot. They have been where I have had a lot of
green to work with and able to run them up to the hole. 

Q. Did you get the most out of your round having to scramble with all those
up-and-downs?

OMAR URESTI: Other than maybe a putt here and there, I think I played pretty well
because I - I don't know how many greens I hit, but I know I made quite a few good par
saves today where I had to get up-and-down, made a lot of 4, 5-footers for par.

Q. What sort of response did you get to that Sports Illustrated thing on the movie
reviews and the other guys in the Tour, did they ask you?

OMAR URESTI: I haven't heard anything from some of the other guys. I actually have not
been -- I haven't seen the article yet but some friends of mine and some other people have
told me it was a really good article. I am looking forward to seeing it.

Q. You are going to try to watch -- because of that try to watch the Academy Awards
Sunday night or does travel get in the way?

OMAR URESTI: Travel might get in the way. Actually we will probably drive up with my
brother to Atlanta and we have a TV so we will probably plug it in and try to watch some
of it.

Q. What is your prediction? Give us the big three.

OMAR URESTI: Oh, best actor is probably Denzel, in my books, anyway. Although it is
pretty close with Kevin Spacey. Best movie overall, probably I am thinking the Green Mile.
Those are the only two I feel pretty good about.

Q. Are you that much of a movie buff?

OMAR URESTI: Well, to pass the time out here on Tour I average two to three movies a
week and I have been to one this week but that is all I am right now having time for.

Q. Tomorrow if things don't change, you are going to be playing with Fulton Allem.
Fulty is a fast player and he says you are a very deliberate player. How is this going to
play out with you guys out there?

OMAR URESTI: Well, watching in the past, it seems like slow players seem to affect the
fast players a little more, but Fulty is used to playing with me. We played together quite
a few times. I am just going to try and keep my pace up right now that I have been
playing. I actually feel like I have sped a little bit the past this year, especially with
my confidence a little bit better, you play a little faster, but Fulty is fast and I will
give him that. We will just have to see. I don't want to make him mad or anything, but at
the same time I don't want to disrupt my game.

Q. Does he needle you?

OMAR URESTI: Yeah, he gives me a hard time every now and then. It is friendly needling.

Q. What does he do?

OMAR URESTI: He just, you know, like every now and then he might say: You are playing
slow or whatever. But it is usually after the round. He doesn't really say anything during
the round.

Q. He said -- he told us that he wrote: "You are too slow" on Bob Estes's
score card. He hasn't done that to you?

OMAR URESTI: No, he hasn't done that to me.

Q. How many times have you visited the interview room before in your career?

OMAR URESTI: Oh, gosh. Maybe a handful. (laughs).

Q. So this is not particularly unusual?

OMAR URESTI: No. And I was also a communications major, so I am a little --

Q. Comfortable?

OMAR URESTI: Yeah.

Q. How much satisfaction or excitement if you end up being second round leader will you
get out of that or is that something you just refuse to even acknowledge --

OMAR URESTI: Unfortunately I will probably hear it a lot throughout the day if I am or
throughout the evening, but I am just going to try to put it behind me. There is still 36
holes of golf to play. See if I can just keep playing the way I have been playing.

Q. In all your accomplishments is this significant as a second round leader?

OMAR URESTI: Not really. It is all about Sunday, so, we will see what happens then. I
am very excited to be where I am right now, but we will just see what happens after
Sunday's round. That is the important thing.

Q. Will Sunday be your last chance getting into the Masters type of thing. Have you
given that any kind of thought?

OMAR URESTI: If it happens, it happens. I am only 31 years old so I feel like I have
quite a few years left.

Q. What movie did you see this week?

OMAR URESTI: Actually I went and saw Hanging Up, the one with Meg Ryan.

Q. How was it? 

OMAR URESTI: It was pretty good. A little different than I expected.

Q. Do you always go to the theater? You don't have any inroom movies?

OMAR URESTI: Usually I have seen all the ones that are in the room. It is almost
cheaper to go to the movie theater than it is to watch them in the hotel room.

Q. We got your picks for the Oscars. What is the worst movie you have seen where you
almost walked out?

OMAR URESTI: I forget the name of those ones. I have kind of forgotten the names of all
the ones I see because I see so many. But one of them I did not like. I can't think of it
right now. There is one, but I can't think of the name.

Q. Do you have like an all-time Top-10 or Top-5 movies and would any golf movie --

OMAR URESTI: Caddie Shack, Dead Solid Perfect as far as golf goes. My favorite western
is The Good, The Bad and The Ugly. And just flatout different movies is Pulp Fiction.

Q. Dave Jr. and you, do you argue about these things?

OMAR URESTI: Actually we agree most of the time on what we see. We usually see them
together quite often, so -- but our opinions are fairly similar.

Q. Does Rusty go with you?

OMAR URESTI: He doesn't see too many movies. He'd rather just sit at the house or
whatever or his hotel and relax. But I can't stay inside like that. I'd rather go out and
watch a movie rather than sit inside the room and watch a movie.

Q. You have got a communications degree, but what was the sequence on that?

OMAR URESTI: Organizational communications, just real general thing. Could have gone
into several different areas.

Q. Could have had our job, right?

OMAR URESTI: Yeah.

Q. Keep yours.

OMAR URESTI: That is a backup. (laughter).

Q. Who has had the strongest influence on your development as a player?

OMAR URESTI: Well, I have been with my instructor Chuck Cook since I was 13. But as far
as idols, there was Crenshaw and Tom Kite being from Austin and Tom Watson, I always liked
the way he was -- the way he hit the ball. 

Q. Do weeks like this and Bay Hill a couple years ago make you wonder why you don't win
--

OMAR URESTI: I am starting to figure -- earlier in the year, my attitude wasn't the
best and some of that comes with confidence as well. The swing wasn't feeling real solid
and I'd hit some good shots but when I missed it, I was missing it really bad so the
confidence wasn't quite there. Right now everything is feeling pretty solid. But I do
wonder why it doesn't happen more often but that is the game of golf.

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT