TURNING STONE RESORT CHAMPIONSHIP
August 5, 2010
Omar Uresti
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ADAM WALLACE: All right. We'd like to welcome Omar Uresti to the interview room. Great round today, 7-under par 65 with no bogeys on the card. Currently tied for the lead. If you could, just talk us through some of the holes and your birdies and we'll take it from there.  
 OMAR URESTI: Okay. No. 2 I started out hit a good drive down the fairway hit a 5-iron about 12, 15 feet right behind the hole and was able to roll it in. Had about an 8 or 10-inch break to it and just hit a really good putt there.  
 Got around to No. 7, and let me picture that hole real quick. Let's see. 8's par-5. I hit it in there pretty close. Let me look at my yardage book. Gosh, I went blank.   
 7, I can't even -- I don't even remember how close I hit it. I think I hit it pretty close there and was able to knock it in. I think I hit it about three or four feet on that hole.  
 Get around to No. 10 I hit 7-iron in there from about 155 yards to about five feet or so and made that. 12, I hit a pitching wedge to about 12 feet and then just to the right past the hole and was able to roll that in.  
 13 was a pretty good hole today, into the wind. You know, just trying to hit it in the fairway and then just trying to put it in the center of the green. I hit 3-iron into the green and then I probably had about a 50-footer or so, if not a little bit longer, and it had probably a seven, eight-foot break to it, and it stopped kind of on the front lip, and I kind of just put my head down and when I put my head down, it fell in. So I didn't even see it go in.   
 And you know, just made some good solid pars, was able to make a good up-and-down on 15. And then 16, I hit it in there about 12 feet and made the putt. And 17 I made about a 20-footer after hitting 3-iron in. So I hit some good shots and finally got a few putts to fall in for me today.   
  
  Q. Can you just talk about the conditions of the course, and was it -- how much tougher was it to go, all right, I'm going to play few holes and wait two and a half hours and then we're playing again. Just talk about your day that way.  
 OMAR URESTI: You know, getting up and getting ready, and playing I think I was on six green when they stopped play, and you know, was kind of in a decent groove. I was hitting it pretty good and actually rolling it well. I'd only made one birdie at that point.   
 And when we came back out, you know, I hit a pretty good putt. I just missed it. But they gave us a certain amount of time to get ready, and it really didn't seem like quite enough. And then they came out and said, well, we got another 30 minutes, so actually I was able to slow down a little bit getting ready and just kind of take it easy and not have to rush.   
 And actually I think that kind of helped that we had that extra 30 minutes on to it. And then when I went back out, I was pretty relaxed, and you know, on No. 7 I actually -- now I remember -- I hit a little 6-iron in from about 157 yards into the wind to about four feet. So yeah, that was right out coming back out after the rain delay. So it felt pretty good all day.   
 And then fortunately I didn't -- you know, we just kind of sat in the clubhouse. I was sitting with Steve Flesch, Craig Bowden and David Duval and we were just kind of telling stories, so kept it pretty relaxed, so it wasn't too hard to go back out.   
  
  Q. Omar, how much effect did the rain have on the greens?  
 OMAR URESTI: It had a little bit. I mean they were kind of soft after the rain the last couple of days. You know, but it did soften them up a little bit more. So you were able to throw it a little bit more at the flag after the delay.   
 You know, the fairways surprisingly kept rolling, were rolling fairly well. And you know, they didn't get as soft as they have been in the past here. And you know, fortunately we're in the summer now, so we get a little bit warmer weather, don't have to deal with the snow and all the cold weather gear.   
 But you know, it didn't -- it softened it up just a little bit, but not drastically.  
  
  Q. Omar, it sounded like everything you described at the beginning there was short game. Short game was the key. Why was that working so well for you today?  
 OMAR URESTI: It's actually -- I've been -- I changed to a different putter, different Scotty Cameron putter last week, and took me a little while. I went a little bit longer with it from what I've been using, and last week was kind of sketchy with it, but I think I'm feeling more comfortable with it now and was able to make some putts.   
 And if you look at my rounds and my stats recently, I've been having 32 to 34, even 35 putts a round and only shooting a couple over. You know, so to get it down to where I did today at 25, you know, that's 10 strokes off the score right there, or at least nine, and going from 74 to 65, that's what's been hurting me. And today it felt really good in my hands, and I felt confident. And you know, I was trying not to take so much time over it either.   
 You know, but I had a couple of pitch shots today, you know, that were -- might have been a little touchy, and you know, I pitched it to around three to four feet or whatever and was able to make those for par as well. So it was a nice day out there on the putting green, on the greens.   
  
  Q. How would you describe your season so far?  
 OMAR URESTI: After the start I had at the Sony Open, it's been a little bit of a letdown, but I've been playing well. I just hadn't been getting anything out of it. You know, if you look -- like I said, again, if you look at my stats, I'm not real long off the tee. I'm actually one of the shorter guys out here, but I'm leading in accuracy. I think proximity to the hole, I'm doing very -- Top 10 at the worst, I think, or was not too long ago. And it's just a matter of getting it in the hole.   
 And like I said today, finally they started falling.   
  
  Q. What's it do for your confidence to be close to the lead after the first round?  
 OMAR URESTI: It helps. You know, just to be able to throw up a number like I did today is really nice. That's the lowest score I've shot all year. I think before this was only 5-under, and I think that was at the Sony or the Bob Hope, and at the Bob Hope you're expected to take it low there.   
 So you know, to be able to put up a low number today, you know, it feels pretty good.   
 ADAM WALLACE: All right. Thanks for coming in, Omar. Best of luck the next three days.  
 OMAR URESTI: All right. Thank you guys.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT