BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 16, 2008
Omar Uresti
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thank you for joining us here on the phone for a few minutes at the Bob Hope Chrysler Classic.  Great start to your week with a 65 over at PGA West.  Seven birdies and no bogeys.  Why don't you just talk about the conditions over there and what you did well today.   
 OMAR URESTI:  It was actually pretty perfect starting the round.  Sun was shining, there wasn't a whole lot of wind, but there was a little bit.  And just getting off to a good start, let's see, I guess I got to the third hole and hit a nice iron approach shot in there probably about 12 feet and made a putt.  I made a bunch of good putts today so that was a really good feeling.   
 I just was able to kind of keep it going doing that.  Right now I can't even tell you what holes I birdied.  I guess I was just kind of -- I was having a good time, talking to my amateur partners and just was hitting good shots and making some good putts.   
 So it's just one of those days.  Later in the day it actually got a little chilly and the wind started blowing a little harder when the clouds moved in, you know, a little cool.  But overall it was a nice day out there.   
 JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  You didn't really get in the field until yesterday, I believe, correct?   
 OMAR URESTI:  Yeah, I think it was Monday morning.   
  
  Q.  Had you had a chance to get around and play all the courses?   
 OMAR URESTI:  Well, funny enough, yeah, I got in on Saturday, I missed the cut in Hawaii.  And I went out and played La Quinta Sunday morning, bright and early.  And then went and watched that awful Dallas Cowboys football game.  At least it was awful for me.   
 And then Monday morning I went and played SilverRock.  And then yesterday I played the Classic Club.  And then I just drove around the PGA West yesterday, didn't even hit any shots or anything on the course or putt.  Just drove around it to refresh my memory, because I played this course several times.  And then I just practiced after I did that.   
  
  Q.  A lot of people have been in here talking about how SilverRock, The Classic Club may be the toughest courses.  Do you look at your draw or the way that the week sets up for you at the beginning of the week?   
 OMAR URESTI:  Not really.  Just try to go out because each day the conditions are going to be different.  So you can try to form a game plan early in the week, but the conditions could alter that game plan.  So then you're going to, you might be a little caught off guard on certain shots.   
 So just try, I just try to go out there and see what the conditions are that day and then go for it.   
  
  Q.  Does being in the lead here considering the dynamics of this tournament mean what it would mean normally?   
 OMAR URESTI:  Now there's four days left instead of three, so there's a lot of golf to be played and anybody could, can go low on any course or all the courses.  So you just got to keep playing good golf the rest of the week.  And hope it works out in your favor.   
  
  Q.  You seem to be one of the players that actually likes helping the amateurs and not even realizing your score.  Do you think, do you feel like that makes you a little bit more relaxed out there and it lends itself to shooting lower?   
 OMAR URESTI:  I think sometimes it does.  Usually if I can keep myself talking I'll stay a little loser and not think about the game so much.  Sometimes I have a tendency to tighten up, get a little tense out there and stuff like that.   
 So it was kind of nice to be able to talk to my amateurs and stay loose out there.   
 JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Omar, for your time and play well and we'll see you over here later in the week.   
 OMAR URESTI:  All right.  Thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT