GREATER GREENSBORO CHRYSLER CLASSIC
April 20, 2000
Omar Uresti
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








OMAR URESTI: Yeah, started off a couple good solid shots on 1, and 2-putted. 2, hit
three good shots to get to the green, and then missed about a 6-footer for birdie. That
was a little disappointing. And then I hit two pretty good shots on 3. Made a good 2-putt.
And then on No. 4 I hit a 6-iron up there about 12 feet, I believe, and ran it in for
birdie. Another two good shots on 5, and 2-putted. 6, I hit a good tee shot, and I pulled
my second shot long and left; and hit a nice little bump-and-run up the hill for about
five feet, and made that for par. 7, did a good 3-wood up there off the tee and hit a
wedge to about 12 feet, right behind the hole. The putt was a little sneaky, got past me,
and ran by a couple of feet when I hit it coming back. 8, I hit a 2-iron to about 8
inches. So that was rather nice. And then a good solid par on No. 9. 

Q. Four birdies in a row coming back. 

OMAR URESTI: No. 10 I hit a drive, pretty good drive; ended up in the short cut of the
rough. Hit a 6-iron to about 7, 8 feet; and made that right in the middle. I hit a good
drive off 11. I hit a wedge to about 8 or 10 inches again. So I tapped that in for birdie.
I hit it to about four feet on 12, with a 7-iron; and I made that for birdie. Then No. 13,
I hit my tee shot just to the left rough, laid up fine, and hit a sand wedge on about 15
feet and had a good putt there. Then I just made a couple of good solid pars on 14. 15 was
a little disappointing. I hit my driver just in the right rough, I laid up. I was trying
to hit a 6-iron and just got a little fast with it and pulled it left. And I chipped it
on, and ended up missing about a 6-footer. I thought I hit a pretty good putt. I think it
hit something halfway to the hole and it kicked right. So I just missed that one. I made a
really good 2-putt on 16 from about 40 feet. I was on the right side of the green. I
didn't really -- I misread my first putt and had about a 5-footer left for par and made
that. I hit a horrible 4-iron on 17, left of the green, left of the bunker. And I got a
good bounce on my flop shot that I hit, and was about four or five feet, and made that for
par. Then 18, hit a pretty good drive and hit 7-iron just so far the green, and chipped it
up to about 6 inches. So it was a good solid day, other than a couple of shots. 

Q. Were you able to stay out of the rough for the most part?

OMAR URESTI: I think I missed three fairways today. So it wasn't too bad. For me it
felt a little disappointing, after playing last week, Hilton Head, I think I only missed
maybe 2 fairways around there. And just looking at it, that course looks a lot tighter.
But the rough here is a lot more severe. 

Q. How high was it?

OMAR URESTI: It's a good four or five inches in spots. But I was very fortunate with
some of the lies that I drew, and I was able to advance it fairly well. 

Q. How does it compare to probably the -- let's say the last five or six courses you
played?

OMAR URESTI: The condition is really good, other than the rain they had here, made it a
little soft. But Hilton Head and TPC, both really demanding off the tee, as well as here,
because of the rough. The rough is fairly -- kind of brutal at TPC, so you have to hit it
fairly straight there. Atlanta, the fairways are really wide, so you can get away with a
few mis-hits off the tee. And Fort Lauderdale before that, let's see, fairly wide
fairways, no trees. The rough sometimes is fairly bad, but there's so many bunkers that
you can get away with miss-hitting tee shots there, as well. 

Q. Do you like the course? Does it fit well with you?

OMAR URESTI: Yes, I've always felt like I've played fairly well here. Last year I had a
little run at it, and had a little struggle on Sunday, I believe. But for the most part
I've always liked to come here and play, it seems to suit my game.

Q. Can you talk about getting off to such a good start the first round, something you
haven't really done this year?

OMAR URESTI: I guess the only good first round was at TPC. And last week, actually, I
played fairly well with the first round with the wind the way it was. I'm fairly happy
with the way the game is coming around right now.

Q. Was there a turning point today at all? Was there anything -- did you have any kind
of good vibe that you were about to -- when you made the turn, that you were about to
start after some birdies?

OMAR URESTI: Well, I felt like I was stroking it fairly well the whole front nine and
just missed a few putts here and there, barely. No. 9, I hit what I thought was a good
putt, and kind of a little double breaker, and it just lipped out. After that, I just -- I
started leaving myself some makable putts, and I was able to roll them in there.

Q. After four years of steady progress on the Tour, how disappointing has the start
you've gotten off to been?

OMAR URESTI: It was a little disappointing, because I usually play well on the West
Coast. But there's a lot of golf yet to be played, and I wasn't trying to worry myself too
much. The past few years or past couple of years, the summertime has really been where
I've been playing the best or in the springtime, as well. So last year, this stretch of
tournaments from here to -- through New Orleans, I had three really solid tournaments in a
row. So hopefully we can throw it up and do it again.

Q. What are you doing better in recent rounds, in recent weeks than you were doing
earlier?

OMAR URESTI: Recent weeks I'm actually, I think, holding my composure better. I was
getting frustrated earlier in the year and trying to force things to happen. I was putting
too much pressure on my swing, and just too much pressure on myself to do good. Whereas
lately I've been more relaxed, just trying to enjoy it a little more, and trusting
everything a little more, as well. 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT