ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 21, 2007
Kyle Reifers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Terrible way to finish, bogey-bogey, but nonetheless, you're still alive with a chance to win. 
 KYLE REIFERS:  Hanging around.  I was pleased the way I played today, made one bad swing on the front nine, hit it in the water and there was nowhere you could drop it and I made a double. 
 Other than that, I had a lot of good opportunities, hit some good putts that didn't go in, and then it was kind of a bad way to finish.  The last three -- I had a real short one there on 16 for birdie to get to 11, and then 17 I really didn't hit that bad of a shot.  I was aimed kind of right, went a little further right than I thought, and it was kind of on the downslope, made bogey there, which wasn't terrible. 
 And then 18, hit the wrong club off the tee.  I hit too much club, went up against the side of -- kind of no-man's land up there against the bunker, played it smart and had a good look at par and just didn't make it.  That gives me a little fire in my belly for tomorrow to come out and try and get after it. 

 Q.  I would also think because of your great opening round, puts you at the top, you're leading after 18 holes, so you're around the lead through 54 holes.  I would imagine it's got to help you building confidence, like, I'm here, I'm still here, I belong here, I can win. 
 KYLE REIFERS:  Yeah, that's how I feel.  You know, I think I was leading today at times, maybe early on.  I got off to a good start, and I know I can do it, just need to put one more good round together.  But I am sticking around, and I'm really looking forward to tomorrow. 

 Q.  I know the way you started was an ideal way to start. 
 KYLE REIFERS:  Yeah, I got off to a good start, made three in a row there early, kind of got things rolling.  I said, hey, let's get after it.  Made a bad swing, I think it was the fifth or sixth -- sixth hole I think it was, and I hit it in the water, and you just can't hit it over there.  You had to drop pretty much on the ladies' tee and had no look at the green.  So made a double there. 
 Kind of hung around, hung around, made some birdies there coming in, and then I bogeyed 17 and 18.  I really hit the wrong club on 18 and wasn't too disappointed with the bogey on 17.  It wasn't a great way to finish, but I'm playing well and looking forward to tomorrow. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT