BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2015
Kyle Reifers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Kyle, what a special round. Did you have any inclination on the range before you played that something special was going to happen today?
KYLE REIFERS: Oh, I wouldn't really say that. I just feel like the last couple months I've been playing really good. I haven't got a lot out of it, but every day my caddie and I kind of joke when we're hitting balls for 10, 15 minutes and kind of laugh.
I feel like I've been repeating what I've been trying to do and hitting it good for a while. It was nice to make a couple putts kind of coming in. Feel like I've been all over the hole on these greens. The mountain effect and everything can kind of be tough to read, so it was nice to get a couple to go in today.

Q. You had a special stretch of holes on the back nine. Was there a sense that you got at some point that it might be something different today? 
KYLE REIFERS: No, I kind of had my head down, obviously after I made the back‑to‑back eagles, holed out from the fairways, kind of hit a real nice L‑wedge, kind of half L‑wedge, and just trickled right in the middle. 
Within format I knew I got ten points there in the last few minutes, which is great and can really catapult you.
I didn't really look at the scoreboard all day. I knew if I made eagle on the last I would have a chance. That's kind of what my thought was. But really didn't look at much. 
Kind of got iced there on 18. It makes you think about everything. Pretty tough little tee shot downwind with an up‑tee kind of makes it tougher.
Just proud of myself the way I hit the ball and reacted and kind of putted. Just everything coming in. I'm proud of myself. I feel like it's probably my maturity and finally my kind of experience kicking in a little bit. 

Q. You talked about being iced on 18. Tee. Tell us what went on there. 
KYLE REIFERS: Well, think the guys ahead of us were having some problems, and looked leak the fee was clear, the fairway was clear.
But they kind of backed me off while I was over it so kind of started over on my routine and waited another five minutes and stepped up and hit a really good shot.
All in all we had to do the same thing yesterday with ‑‑ I think a guy broke his hand, so it kind of threw a kink in everything yesterday. I knew what to expect and stepped up and hit a good shot.

Q. You said your sister lives here, right?
KYLE REIFERS: Yeah. 

Q. Did you get to spend time with her? Is she here watching?
KYLE REIFERS: Yeah, yeah, she's here. Yeah, it's great. I have a little niece and nephew here. It was nice in the evenings to kind of hang out with them and get my mind off it. 
I don't know, just been kind of keeping my head down for a couple months here. Like I said, didn't really look at any scores. With this format anything can happen, so finally at the last minute there kind of came together and three eagles on the back.
Yeah, it was cool.

Q. Take us through the three eagles, if you can. 
KYLE REIFERS: First one I hit a great drive and had a pretty good number. Wind was swirling a little bit on our back nine. Hit a 4‑iron just right on the nose to probably 12, 15 fit. Kind of a little double breaker; tough putt. Hit a really good putt and made that one. 
Next hole, 4‑iron and had kind of a half L‑wedge I think 70‑yard shot. Justhit a perfect shot. Kind of sloping away and just trickled right in the middle. Really kind of the perfect shot.
18 hit a really good drive and a good 7‑iron and I hit a really good putt.
So it was nice under pressure and everything. Kind of a downhill left to righter which didn't have to worry too much getting it there.
Is it was nice.

Q. Was it like a ten or fifteen‑footer? 
KYLE REIFERS: Yeah, it was just on the fringe. Probably 12 feet or so. Wasn't too far from the hole. Just on the fringe. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT