BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 7, 2015
Kyle Reifers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Just get some comments on your day. Obviously highlighted by the eagle there on the back nine.   
KYLE REIFERS: Yeah, it's great. I love this format. Started off nice with three birdies in row to get the day going. Greens were perfect this morning, so felt like you could make some putts.  
Really just kind of played solid. I made a couple bogeys on the back, but with this format it's kind of funny. It just feels like a little slap on the wrist and keep rolling.  
My mindset seems pretty good this week.  
   
 Q. What did you hit on the eagle?   
KYLE REIFERS: I hit driver, 3‑wood.   
   
 Q. Comment a little bit about your position heading into the weekend. Obviously right where you need to be.   
KYLE REIFERS: Yeah, feel like I've really been playing well for a couple months. I haven't had great results, I mean, not awful, so I feel like it's been coming.  
But I'm excited to be in the hunt and in the mix. In this format, like I said, anything can happen. You can be pole vaulted, be playing advantage and making eagle, or just kind of plod away.  
So it's a really fun format. I've played in this tournament a few times before, and I think it's really great for the tournament and I think the guys enjoy it.  
   
 Q. Do you attack par‑5s differently here than you would maybe other places?   
KYLE REIFERS: I am trying to play pretty similar to what I normally do, but if you kind of get a putt or something, you know, if hit two good shots in with a putt at it, you might be a little bit more aggressive trying to make an eagle.  
Other than that...  
   
 Q. This is probably one of the higher altitudes.   
KYLE REIFERS: Yeah, I mean the way the course is, too, I mean, like I said, it's a perfect course for this setup. The par‑5s, you can have a chance. All four are reachable for the most part, or kind of three of them for sure.  
Yeah, it's great. I made two of them, so that really kind of helped. Some birdies, couple bogeys, and that's about it.  
   
 Q. How do you get ready for tomorrow now?  
KYLE REIFERS: My sister actually lives here, so it's been great. Go hang out with my niece and nephew probably and just spend a little time with them and relax.  
   
 Q. Here in Reno.   
KYLE REIFERS: Yeah.  
   
 Q. That makes you like a local.   
KYLE REIFERS: Yeah, exactly.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT