THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE INSURANCE
June 2, 2012
Kyle Reifers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Well, you gave one back but still in striking distance.   
KYLE REIFERS:   Yeah, it was tough out there today.   I didn't quite have my "A"game.   I hit some good shots, but I putted beautifully, so I made a bunch of par saves, especially on that back nine.   Seemed like even a couple birdie putts I hit good putts that just didn't go in.   But I'm pleased that some 1‑overs are better than others, so I could have let that get away from me.   Grinded my butt off, and I'll see if I can't put a good round together tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   How difficult was the wind?  
KYLE REIFERS:   It was very difficult.   I think that I maybe had‑‑ I wouldn't say an advantage, but I played late yesterday, and we had a similar wind.   It's a little stronger today.   But it's tough.   The greens are quick, and you really have to be in the right places.  
   
 Q.   I guess the wind is going to continue tomorrow they're saying.   It could be even a little tougher.   Just your mindset heading into tomorrow?  
KYLE REIFERS:   Yeah, try and give yourself as many looks as you can.   You've got to hit the fairways, see if you can't get‑‑ the way the greens are you have some slopes that you can maybe work off some slopes and get it somewhat close to the hole and make some putts.  
   
 Q.   Was it tougher today than yesterday?  
KYLE REIFERS:   Different.   It was cold and nasty yesterday.   Today was just windy.   There were difficulties with both days, but I really like the way I'm rolling it, and if I can give myself some looks tomorrow, I think I'll shoot a good number.  
   
 Q.   There's a lot of high scores out there right now.   Is this as tough as you've ever seen this golf course?   
KYLE REIFERS:   Yeah, probably right there, yeah.   They're starting to pick up speed.   They're getting a little bit firmer.   It's one of the tougher days that I've seen.   
   
 Q.   Five years ago when you went through this, did you see something like this happening when you would make your return?   
KYLE REIFERS:   Well, I mean, yeah, you see it, but at points you think it's a long way away.   So I'm happy to be here, and this is always a great week for me.   
   
 Q.   You see the leaderboard right now.   What is the expectation or the goal?  
KYLE REIFERS:   I really don't have any expectations.   It could blow 40 tomorrow and 2‑over could be a great round.   It could not blow and try and shoot under par‑‑ I never really put a number on it, but I kept it in the ballgame today, like I said, and I can hopefully post a good round tomorrow and see what happens.   
   
 Q.   How much of a make‑or‑break is it, 16, 17 and 18?  
KYLE REIFERS:   I don't think it is at all, really.   I think there's good holes all the way around here.   At least with this wind you have it somewhat downwind those three last holes.   We were playing some of those other holes with crosswinds and into the wind that are tough holes.   It makes it interesting with this wind.   You get holes that are playing just completely different and you've got to think about it.   But I don't think 16, 17, 18, I think you just try and give yourself‑‑ you can make birdies, as well.   They're good holes.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
KYLE REIFERS:   Yeah, exactly.   I think that's why it's a great finish.   It's a great course, and it'll make you think.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT