THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE INSURANCE
June 1, 2012
Kyle Reifers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  KYLE REIFERS:   I mean, it's good.   It's early.   It's Friday.   A little disappointed with a couple bogeys coming in.   I played better than that.   But I like where I'm sitting, and it was difficult out there.   I mean, we were in the last group.   You can tell right now, no light out.   So it was tough.   We got fooled a couple times coming in on that wind.   But I hit all the shots that I wanted, so I'm pleased where I sit, and I'm looking forward to the weekend.  
   
 Q.   You're in striking distance.   Just your mindset coming into tomorrow because no one really ran away.   
KYLE REIFERS:   Well, no, not in these conditions.   I had a chance to really put up something good today.   I'm still pleased with the way I played and where I'm sitting, but I'm looking forward to the weekend.   If you would have told me I'd be three back or whatever going into the weekend, I would say, let's go.   So I'm excited.  
   
 Q.   Are you pinching yourself at all?   You always come here wanting to play well, but you're actually‑‑  
KYLE REIFERS:   I am, yeah, a little bit.   But I think that my game is at a state now where I can compete with these guys.   That's the bottom line.   And it doesn't matter, I'm kind of trying to feed off my family and friends and show off a little bit and say I'm in a better place now.  
   
 Q.   What kind of vibe are you getting out there from folks?  
KYLE REIFERS:   It's great.   There's a lot of, like I said, family and friends out there, so it's all positive, especially when you're playing well.   Sometimes if you're not playing well it can be tough where you feel almost pressure to play well for them, for them coming out.   
It's fun making a few birdies and getting in the hunt, and hopefully we'll have a lot of people out there tomorrow and see if we can make some noise again.  
   
 Q.   You said yesterday that some of the local knowledge may have helped.   Was there any of that again today?  
KYLE REIFERS:   Yeah, I think so.   It only helps.   It was blowing every which way.   It was cold.   You know, so I'm hoping‑‑ I think the next couple days the sun is at least supposed to come out.   So it should be manageable and I'm looking forward to taking a hot shower and getting some food and going to bed.  
   
 Q.   You have Zach on the bag, your friend.   How is that?  
KYLE REIFERS:   Yeah, we're essentially one for one.   He caddied for me in the Nationwide event at Scarlet last year, that's it, and had a real good week and brought him back for this one week.   We're having another good week and let's see if we can go two for two.  
   
 Q.   I think you were in the fairway and ended up in the bunker and in trouble, and on 18‑‑  
KYLE REIFERS:   Like I said, I hit the shots that I wanted, I pushed a lay‑up shot on 15 that kind of put me behind the eight ball and made a bogey there.   But other than that, I hit a really good shot on 16, got up‑and‑down on 17, hit two good shots, as well.   I mean, it was blowing‑‑ I just got done hitting an 8‑iron 190 yards in the air on 16 in the same wind and the ball didn't go 158 yards with the 8‑iron on 18.   You know, I hit the same exact shot, or it should have been the same way.   So I was pretty frustrated that thing came back and I didn't get it up and in.   
I played well, and that's all you can do.   It's the elements.   I hit the shots I wanted to hit, and keep going.   
   
 Q.   How much farther did that ball need to be on 18 to stay there?  
KYLE REIFERS:   Another yard, but it's‑‑ where it landed, you knew it was going to come back.   I didn't think that was where it was going to go, but that's beside the point.   I hit a pretty good chip and I hit the putt right where I wanted and it went right and I thought it was going to go left or straight.   
You know, like I said, I'm hitting the good shots and the good putts, which is all you can do.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about what happened on 15?   Did you feel like you kind of lost an opportunity there?  
KYLE REIFERS:   Well, I think so.   I hit a good drive, but it was blowing 25 miles an hour into us.   You're on an upslope trying to lay the ball up with water and stuff and I tried to chip a little 4‑iron and just pushed it and I had to hit something over to the left.   
Yeah, you never like making 6, especially after hitting a good drive, but you know, you keep going.   I hit some great shots and some great putts, and it's golf.   I'm sure everyone else in these conditions made something like that today.   
   
 Q.   It's been a long, long day.   How happy are you now to at least get this round in, in the position you are, and sleep in a little bit tomorrow?  
KYLE REIFERS:   It's huge, it's huge.   Like I said, I'm going to take a hot shower and get some food.   It feels like it's snowflakes right now is what it feels like to me.   No, it's great.   I'll be able to sleep in, I'll be rested and ready to go tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Athletes talk about the longer they do stuff, and you talked yesterday about paying your dues and everything, that the game starts to slow down in like football or whatever.   Is there any of that in golf where the game slows down?   So much of it is between your ears.   
KYLE REIFERS:   I think so.   Even today on that back nine we started to get some cameras going and some people coming out, and that was fun, but I didn't feel any different.   I felt like I belonged.   I still, like I said, felt like I hit good shots and good putts, and hopefully I can do that this weekend.  
   
 Q.   How many people were following you today?  
KYLE REIFERS:   My mom, my aunt, my uncle.   I had a lot of friends from growing up in the neighborhood and golf and baseball and just a lot of friends, so it's neat to see.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned maybe in the past you wouldn't have been mentally prepared, but you wouldn't have felt like you belonged necessarily.   Is that a thing that's happened this year?  
KYLE REIFERS:   Well, I think so.   Last year you start to do it by earning my way back out here.   I put in a full season last year and feel like I just continually‑‑ like I'm getting better.   But to be able to do it out there is different than to be able to do it out here.   I feel in the last couple months‑‑ I've felt all year I've been playing well, but in the last couple months I'm starting to get some results and keep pecking and keep knocking on the door and good things are going to happen.  
   
 Q.   Did you have a concern about being able to finish today?  
KYLE REIFERS:   I knew they were going to push to get us done.   We were the last group, so they were going to get us in.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT