NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: DEVILS v RANGERS
May 22, 2012
Zach Parise
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   When you're heading into a series like this, and you‑‑ I guess you're expecting fireworks.   Is there any sort of a feeling when they finally erupt?   Is it okay here we go, or is it uhoh?
ZACH PARISE:   By no means is it uhoh.   When we play these, when these two teams get together, I think you expect things like this to happen.   But I mean that's‑‑ I don't know.   I mean, it's not the way that we play.   As we showed in the Flyers in that series we do a good job of staying out of that and playing disciplined, and that's worked for us so far.
But I mean, by no means are we saying uhoh.   You anticipate the tempers to rise a little bit throughout when we're playing these guys.

Q.   Do you anticipate that some of stuff in the third period would carry over in tomorrow's game or that stuff, as the games get more important, we'll see less of that?
ZACH PARISE:   I think a lot had to do with the scenario, you know, you won't see anything like that in the first period.   A lot of it is dictated by the score and how the game develops and unravels. 
So it's only going to go from here.   It's only going to go up as we play more and more, I think it was just the way the game was unfolding.   I don't expect it to be a dirty series by any means going forward.

Q.   What does it mean to you when you see your coach so emotionally involved like that on the bench in the third period?
ZACH PARISE:   We know how much of a competitor he is.   And he cares about his players.   And he cares about winning, and he's emotionally involved in the game just like we all are.   And so I think it's great to see when your coach is involved in that and cares like that. 
And I think he's done a great job throughout the whole series keeping his cool.   And when things have gone good or bad, he's always done a really good job of keeping everything even keel.   And I don't know if something just happened to push him over the edge last night.   And that's fine with us.   We know that he cares about us and cares about the team. 

Q.   I have a question about, coach talks a lot about how the team talks almost every day about your composure.   And I know you probably don't want to go into detail about this.   But how much, what do you talk about when you talk about those things?   Is it something you talk about every day? 
ZACH PARISE:   What do you mean like what we talk about, ourselves? 

Q.   Yeah.   Keeping your own composure. 
ZACH PARISE:   I think that's a big part of the Playoffs.   You're going to go through some great times and you're going to go through some times where you can't allow yourself to get frustrated.   And we've done a good job of that.   We do a good job after we lose a game of making adjustments and responding and rebounding.   That goes to having composure on the ice, playing the game, playing composure with the puck.   And I think it all just ties together. 
The coaches do a good job making sure we're prepared.   And we've said that before.   But it's the truth.   If things don't work, we make adjustments to do things differently.   And we're prepared.   When that's the case, I think the composure comes along with it. 

Q.   Just talk about the New Jersey fans and how they were last night and what is it like to see them on Friday, how would you like to see them on Friday?
ZACH PARISE:   They were awesome last night.

Q.   Over the years. 
ZACH PARISE:   They were awesome last night.   And through the Playoffs.   We've played well at home.   We've given them something to cheer about at home.   And that's important.   When you're not playing well at home, you're not winning, it doesn't matter how great your crowd is, you're not giving them anything to cheer about, it's tough.
But I think right from the start of this playoff and up until now, the building's been loud.   It's been a great atmosphere to play in.   And even just small things, when you spend a lot of time in the other team's zone they get loud and they start to cheer.   And they appreciate the hard work that we're putting in. 
It's great.   It's great for us.   And it's fun to play in front of them.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT