NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: KINGS v DEVILS
June 10, 2012
Zach Parise
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Zach Parise. 

Q.   (Question regarding the 3‑0 deficit.) 
ZACH PARISE:   I think it's overblown.   He mentioned it to me once when we were down 3‑0.   There's not much more to the story than that. 

Q.   If you do win the Cup, it will be history.   Does that history angle entice you, interest you? 
ZACH PARISE:   We have such a long way to go.   Just have to worry about tomorrow night's game than thinking long‑term.   We've got a lot of work to do just to have a chance. 
So right now, we just want to get this thing back in Jersey. 

Q.   I don't think there's two players in the league whose ability level and determination level are so close as you and Sidney Crosby.   I'm wondering if he helped you out in that regard or if you helped him out in that regard.   The compete level. 
ZACH PARISE:   I think we never really played together or crossed paths.   I saw him play a few times.   He had just come into Shadduck when I left.   As a fan of the game, I watch him.   He's the best player in the game, and you try to take things from his game and try to use it in your own.   But that's about it. 
I doubt he does the same about me (laughter). 

Q.   Is that something you take pride in, having that compete level?
ZACH PARISE:   I try to.   That's my game.   If I find that's what has worked for me, that's what's helped me out in my career, I think that's just the way I need to play.   That's all there is to it.   That's the way I have to play. 

Q.   (Question about a beard.)
ZACH PARISE:   It didn't work for me.   I tried in the first round.   We lost a few rounds.   We were down, so I shaved it.   We came back and won.   I haven't even tried since.   Probably still look the same anyway, but I haven't tried. 

Q.   Do you think you put questions about doubt into their minds?
ZACH PARISE:   You'd have to ask them.   So far we've done what we wanted to do after being down 3‑0, give ourselves a chance.   I think they played a great game last game, and we were able to come away with a win. 
I don't know.   I hope so.   I think from our standpoint, we hope so.   That's what we wanted to do. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT