NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: KINGS v DEVILS
June 7, 2012
Adam Henrique
Zach Parise
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   (Inaudible). 
ZACH PARISE:   Hopefully.   I mean, I don't think there was much difference in the way we played.   Games 2, 3, 4 we were fortunate to end up on the winning side.   But hopefully we didn't, but also, we don't know what they are saying in their locker room or anything.   But in our minds, we hope so. 

Q.   Inaudible. 
ZACH PARISE:   No. 

Q.   Curious, if there's a big difference between believing you can do something and actually knowing that you can‑‑ what has changed?   What did a Game4 win do? 
ADAM HENRIQUE:   Feel like‑‑ the series, just‑‑ inaudible. 

Q.   (Inaudible). 
ZACH PARISE:   We are getting good chances‑‑ unfortunately right now, just for whatever reason, it's not going in for us.   I think we've been playing fine.   I don't think that we need to change anything about what we are doing.   We are working.   We are working hard.   We are making, e we are doing a decent job of spending time in the offensive zone.   Of course you always want to do more of that.   But I think that we're playing fine.   We just have to score and then we don't have this conversation. 

Q.   Inaudible. 
ADAM HENRIQUE:   I feel like we've been playing well‑‑ (inaudible) ‑‑ getting that first win, we know what we can accomplish. 

Q.   Did you know you were going to have‑‑
ADAM HENRIQUE:   I knew I was going to have, coming over‑‑ (inaudible)‑‑ I knew I was going to have‑‑ to have control.   Have a chance‑‑

Q.   Big games, pressure games, personnel playing‑‑ you guys‑‑ talk about the relationship‑‑
ZACH PARISE:   We were talking about the whole way through, they have done a really good job, whether it's been switching lines or tweaking forechecks or things like that, breakouts.   And we find whatever we seem to change, we see the results right away.   We believe in what they are saying and the way they want us to play. 
So throughout the whole playoffs, we have played a couple of games a certain way and then find a different thing to do and find out that that works.   So they have done a good job. 

Q.   Does that maybe change for you in terms of breaking‑‑
ADAM HENRIQUE:   Down three‑‑ (inaudible)‑‑ not sure‑‑ done it before as a junior, and it's worked before so why not try it again?

Q.   Does that mean‑‑ in clutch situations in the playoffs as a junior‑‑ is that why‑‑
ADAM HENRIQUE:   I think so.   Whatever the juniors‑‑ (inaudible)‑‑ still have‑‑ (inaudible)‑‑ whatever the situation is, try to take it game‑by‑game and do whatever I need to do, score a goal, penalty, whatever it is. 

Q.   (Inaudible). 
ZACH PARISE:   I think it was just‑‑ I don't know if it was so much him or just the fact that we were missing great opportunities, missing the net, not executing five‑on‑three. 
I don't think it was so much‑‑ like for example we were throwing 35, 45 shots at him and couldn't get anything by him.   I think this team, they don't‑‑ Quick is getting a lot of credit, and he deserves it, but the whole team should get credit for how good of a job they have been doing limiting our opportunities. 
It's nice for us to score goals, but I think it was more so‑‑ it wasn't so much, you know, what can we do to beat this guy, type of attitude. 

Q.   After last night's game‑‑ having a chance, are you even thinking about that? 
ADAM HENRIQUE:   (Inaudible).   We have the confidence‑‑ going to be tough obviously, but we can do it. 

Q.   How big was it for the team‑‑
ZACH PARISE:   It's important for players confidence.   Of course, whether it's an empty net or the goalie is in there, it's important, for a player to get on the board and just feel better. 
For us, that's going to go a long way when he's feeling good about his game?

Q.   What do you guys think about‑‑ do you feel like you're making progress? 
ADAM HENRIQUE:   I think so.   I feel like we are getting chances. 
line





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT