NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: KINGS v DEVILS
June 5, 2012
Zach Parise
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Zach Parise.   
   
 Q.   What is the mindset coming off of Game3?   
ZACH PARISE:   Try to get this thing taken back to New Jersey.   That's all we can do right now.   That's all we can think about.   
   
 Q.   What about the start?   How do you get something going?  
ZACH PARISE:   Well, I thought we had a pretty decent start.   It would be nice for us to get the first goal.   That was a big part of how well we played in the Rangers series a lot of times.   We were able to get the first goal.   We were converting.   That hasn't been the case so far.   
   
 Q.   In terms of belief, confidence, where is that for you right now?   Do you believe you can do it?  
ZACH PARISE:   Of course, we do.   We're in a tough spot.   It will be very hard.   But we'll try our best.   You can't look at the big picture for us right now.   Try to get this thing back to New Jersey and see what happens.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
ZACH PARISE:   We got to convert.   Again, I think last game we had some good opportunities early, power plays.   We're just not cashing in when we need to, and they are.   That's been the difference.   Well, that was the difference last game.   When we have a breakdown, they're making it count and we're not.   That's why we find ourselves where we are right now.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
ZACH PARISE:   No, I'm not thinking the end right now.   Hopefully we got a few more games in us.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel the pressure of you and Ilya and Travis, provide some offense?  
ZACH PARISE:   Yeah, we need to.   There's no secret there.   I know how this goes.   When the offense struggles, you look at certain individuals.   I get it.   
Yeah, we got to do a better job of scoring some goals, getting some more opportunities.   
They're playing a really good defensive game, not giving us a lot of room, not giving us a lot of chances.   But they are there.   The chances are there.   You're not going to get a lot of 'em against these guys, but you have to make 'em count.   So far we haven't been able to do that.   
   
 Q.   How do you approach going into this game?   Are you relaxed?   Do you worry about anything?  
ZACH PARISE:   I mean, in the back of our minds, no one wants this to end.   But we got nothing to lose.   We can go and play as hard as we can and hope for the best, try to put our best game forward.   
But there's nothing really right now to save it for.   Just try to make sure we're all playing as hard as we can.   We're playing hard, we just need to play smart.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT