NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: KINGS v DEVILS
June 4, 2012
Andy Greene
Zach Parise
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
   
 Q.   You could see after Game2 how disappointed you were.   How do you refocus?   Is there anybody you talk to?   How do you go to being ready to go tonight?  
ZACH PARISE:   We've kind of gone through that I think throughout this whole playoff.   There was some frustration building up throughout the Rangers series, even the Florida series as well.   We've done a good job of rebounding back.   
I think everyone was pretty disappointed just because we felt we could have won at least one of those games at home, and we didn't.   Then now we find ourselves in a pretty tough spot.   
But we've done a good job of, like I said, refocusing throughout the whole playoff.   Hopefully we're ready to have our best effort tonight.   
   
 Q.   I know you said it's not just about you and Kovy, it's more than just one guy.   Coach said that you and Kovy and Clark are on the verge of breaking through.   Did you feel like that at the end of last game?  
ZACH PARISE:   I hope so.   We've had the opportunities.   We just haven't scored.   Kovy hits a crossbar.   There's maybe under a minute left last game.   He puts it off the crossbar.   That's the way it's been going.   It goes like that.   
We do need to score.   That's our job and that's our responsibility.   We're close.   I think, like I said, we've had the chances.   But the bottom line is it doesn't matter.   If you're getting the chances, you've got to put them in.   We'll have to be a little better.  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Andy Greene, as well.   
   
 Q.   Coming out west, do you embrace it?   You've been in a set routine for a number of weeks?   Does this change things at this stage of the playoffs?   
ANDY GREENE:   Yeah, I mean, we're pretty fortunate for two series not to get on a plane, going on a bus to Philly, a bus to the Rangers.   
It feels good to get back into this routine a little bit, get on the road, kind of get away from home, get back to being just focused on the single thing, the game.   It's not like we're focused at home.   When you're on the road, there's a lot less kiss attractions, a lot of less things to worry about.   I think it will be a big plus for us tonight.   
ZACH PARISE:   Hopefully it plays to our advantage, getting that extra rest, not having those long flights.   No one in the east is going through the time changes.   But not having those get‑home‑late type of flights.   
Hopefully as the series moves on, that will be to our advantage.   
   
 Q.   Zach, how would you describe that third‑period stretch with you and Kovalchuk?  
ZACH PARISE:   I mean, I think it was okay.   I feel like we had good scoring opportunities.   Even in overtime, I know we had two or three good chances there, too.   
I think we turned the puck over a couple too many times.   We can't allow ourselves to do that.   When you're in a tight series like this, chances are so hard to come by, you don't want to give them any free opportunities.   I think we did that a couple times in the third period in overtime.   
All in all, I thought it was okay.   I mean, we did end up putting one in the net.   But we had some chances.   I mean, hopefully we'll rebound tonight.   We've played pretty well together all season.   Hopefully tonight will be better.   
   
 Q.   Zach, you said you had some frustration against the Rangers and Lundqvist.   What did Pete or you guys do to keep that frustration at bay and keep plugging away?   Anything that helped?   
ZACH PARISE:   We did a good job of looking at video, how much offensive zone time we were having, and really how we were dictating, we were controlling the game, we were controlling the play.   
We just kept preaching, It's going to go in, it's going to go in.   Throughout the whole series, we felt good about the way we were playing.   We couldn't get anything by him, but we still felt good about the way we were playing.   
Of course, when you get shut out two‑out‑of‑three times, you start to get a little frustrated.   They showed us a video of the offensive zone, all the chances we were having, but just that they weren't going in for us.   
   
 Q.   Andy, the Kings forwards presenting any different challenges than you've seen in the previous three rounds?   One regulation goal against in each of the games.   
ANDY GREENE:   No, I think it was pretty similar to when we played Philly.   I think they have a group of forwards pretty similar.   They may have one or two more bigger guys than I think we handled against Philly.   They haven't done anything that has surprised us.   They're an honest team.   They forecheck hard.   
It's just about executing plays, you know, making sure we're doing the right plays at the right times.   
   
 Q.   Zach, I'm sure you're tired of talking about the power play.   Is there something different that L.A. is doing that hasn't been done before?   
ZACH PARISE:   Not really.   I think their penalty kill is real similar to ours.   They pressure at the right times.   You feel like right when there's a bobbled puck, they have two guys in your face.   They challenge you up the ice.   
These guys, as opposed to the other guys we played, they hold the blueline better when they're coming into the zone.   We find we have to dump it a little bit more, whereas against the Rangers and Flyers, we could skate it in.   They definitely make it tougher to get into the zone.   
But I think we've had some decent looks ‑ not great.   I don't know how many power play opportunities we've had.   Sneak one of those in, it's a different game.   
They've got a good PK.   There's no way around it.   But I think we can help ourselves out a little better by executing some passes and not fumbling the puck a little bit.   Hopefully be a little sharper.   I think we can take some more shots, too.   It's a lot of perimeter passing.   I think we can get some pucks, then that will be better.   
   
 Q.   Is it a concern that you don't get a skate on that rink before warmups?   
ANDY GREENE:   I don't think it's that big of a deal.   We had a good practice yesterday after we got off the flight, had good energy out there.   Guys were upbeat and ready.   
I think we'll go out there for warmups.   It's not like when we skate out there in the morning skate, not like we're out there for an hour testing the ice anyways.   You're out there for 10 or 15 minutes and done.   
Get out there in warmups, get a good warmup and be ready for the game.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, guys.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT