AMERICAN CENTURY CELEBRITY GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
July 16, 2004
Dan Quinn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Looks like you got pretty hot on the back nine, four birdies, talk about the front compared to your back nine.
 DAN QUINN:   Well, I started, I hit like a foot on 1, so I had like five feet on 2, and then made par     I made par on the two par 5s, kind of put me in a tentative mode and I made two bogeys from the fringe on 5 and 6.  Then I made a really good birdie on 10, a foot again.

3 putted 12.  Hit it a foot on 13 chipped in on 14     15, I should say, and 2 putted for birdie on 16.  I hit an 8 iron in the water on 18, so I'm a little ticked at that.
Q.  Number wise, 25 is a pretty good score.
 DAN QUINN:   Yeah, you look at what you think may or may not be a winning score, but I shot 2 under, basically three bogeys from the fringe, a 3 putt     I 3 putted, hit a chip from the fringe on 5.  So those are three points to look at, but 8 iron in the water on the last hole, you can't do that.  I know it was about a foot from being     I sort of justified     four more.  I chipped in on 15 and I hit a horrible shot, got lucky, so it is what it is.  Today's Friday; hopefully we get better every day.
Q.  A lot of shots right in close, were your irons pretty hot?
 DAN QUINN:   You know, four, five birdies, so I chipped in and everything else was a foot.  I chipped in once.  Putted very tentative.
Q.  What happened at 18?
 DAN QUINN:   I generally don't hit a good drive there, once every six rounds, and hit a good drive and I had 8 iron in.  Sort of sucked in by the pin, I pulled it more than I drew it, I just sort of pulled it about five year yards, pin high right; you see it a yard in the water right there.  Sort of dropped it and got out of there with a 5.  Better today than Sunday, I guess.
Q.  Were you surprised at the numbers that you've seen up there?  Seems like there's a dozen, 15 guys in the high teens, 20 range.
 DAN QUINN:   The funny thing about Edgewood, you come on Tuesday and Wednesday, kind of free wheel it, everybody thinks there's a ton of birdies.  You go through from that fourth hole, until 16, there's not a lot of birdies.  And the greens are firm and fast and you have to be a little bit careful.  You've got a big bunch of 240 guys walking around, there's heel prints and it's spongy.

IVAN LENDL: Talking about me?
DAN QUINN:   Is that the guy that has like 80 home runs?  Him and that group, Peyton Manning, what is he, 260?  I'm kidding.   You have big guys going around on these poa annua greens, a couple holes, a one foot putt was a scary thing.

Like I said, usually    I talked to Vince Cellini the other day     said that this course brings out all of the     because of the greens being bumpy all of the tentativeness just sort of reworks when you get back to the first tee on Friday.  Everybody is pretty confident Tuesday, Wednesdays, Thursday.  That said, I think the scores are pretty decent.  I don't know what everybody's medal was, but I think they are pretty good, pretty clumped together.
Q.  You've had so much success here now, do you feel more confidence out there?  Do you feel you've got an edge on just about what you've been talking, you know that's how it goes and are you more prepared for that?
 DAN QUINN:   It was weird, again it's the second year with this format, so it's weird going out and trying to figure out if you're having a good round or not.  Again, when it was medal I used to think if I could try to get under par on the front nine and then go get the back nine, that's sort of the way you play.  Especially when you get to 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10,11, 12, they are good holes, good greens; and if you are not in the right spot, it's easy to make a bogey or a mistake.

With the points, went out today a couple guys tee off 45 points ahead of you, they have 16 points and you have eight, it's kind of different.

Generally, the years that I've done well here, you try not to kill yourself on Friday and that's generally what I did.
Q.  Does it help to be playing with another strong player like Al Del Greco?
 DAN QUINN:   And Ivan Lendl.  Ivan's a little skanky     he's back there.  Ivan played great.  We had a good group.

Al had an unfortunate 15th, 16th hole.  Otherwise, he would have been     I don't know how many points he ended up, but he made a double.  Otherwise he played very well, too.  He was actually playing the best of us through 14, 15.  We had a group, I played with those guys a lot, and it's always fun to play with them.
Q.  Starting the day, if you would have known would you have got 25 points, no matter how you got there, would you have been happy?
 DAN QUINN:   Yeah, yeah.  That's the thing, though, how do you know what's good?  I had an eagle putt on 16, it was a 6 point putt, right in the heart of the hole, about 20 feet which is makeable.  And you stand on 18 with an 8 iron, Ivan had a 6 pointer, 18 footer on 18 for an eagle, so you don't know if that's good, 25 points.

70 is a good score.  I'll take it.  Add it up at the end.  Somebody could shoot 70 points and get 25 points, I think.  That's what's weird.  I don't know.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT