AMERICAN CENTURY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 2012
Dan Quinn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Four‑time champion Dan Quinn.   Take us through your round today, Dan.
DAN QUINN:   All right.   First of all, first time I got to play with Tony Romo, which was a great pairing, with Brett Hull.   Brett had a little bit of a tough time.
Tony and I started out‑‑ looked like we were going to play some really good golf and never sort of followed up on it. 
I ended up having 10 pars on the front, maybe three good birdie putts that I didn't hit goodputts on‑‑ sorry, 9 pars and missed tenth and 4‑footer and made a birdie on the 11th.
But for the most part I'm sure, like you guys, I've been kind of shocked that this is the score that's leading.   Normally if you're 43 or 44 on Saturday you're 10 or 12 points behind. 
So I'm pretty happy that it's still out there and I still have a chance.   This course is really about the par 5s and I'm 3 over on those. 
Made two birdies, 11th from a foot, and I hit it to about a foot and a half, almost made a million or whatever that prize money is on 17. 
So anyway, one good round and we'll see what happens tomorrow.   I'm looking forward to it.

Q.   You've won this thing four times.   The last time in 2004, you're the second leading money winner here behind Rhoden with about $780,000 over that time.   How does it feel to be back in the hunt going into the final round?
DAN QUINN:   I haven't won since'04, but I think I had two opportunities when Rick won maybe in '08 or '09.   If I birdie 18, I win.
It wasn't like I haven't been there the last couple of years.   I was in the last group two years ago even though Billy Joe lapped us, I was in the last group and played horribly.   But I'm looking forward to tomorrow.   I played with Mark Rypien yesterday, and he shot plus 5 and kept it a round and made great saves and had 16 points.
And so we'll see how he comes out tomorrow.   Obviously he had a good round today.   There's still probably somebody, if they could post a 30‑pointer, which somebody has usually done every year, looks like there's a lot of guys that are in it tomorrow.

Q.   You've won four times.   As you've said you've been in the hunt a bunch of others.   And the guys that are closest to you, there's been one winner and that was Mark in the initial tournament back in 1990.   The other guys are looking for their first one.   Advantage Quinn?
DAN QUINN:   You know, I looked at‑‑ I always look for Rick's name and I saw Jack didn't have his best day.   You look at the guys that have won, sure.   I was playing with Tony.   So you see where he's got potential at some point over the next couple of years, maybe even tomorrow, he'll win this thing. 
Advantage me, I don't know.   I wish I could feel a little more confident.   If I can just wiggle a couple more putts in.   I'm hitting it okay with my irons.   And I find 20 yards‑‑ if anybody could lend me 20 yards for tomorrow that would be nice for the par 5s.

Q.   The Quinn/Ernie Els theme has been in the news yesterday.   I'm wondering if you know where he is and if it will be difficult for you tomorrow knowing that he's on the leaderboard over there?
DAN QUINN:   Well, I could probably see‑‑ I think I saw him through 14 holes before I teed off today and it should be similar tomorrow. 
I just looked at his tee time, 2:10, which I believe is 6:10 here.   So I'll see a good two and a half, three hours or I'll be able to watch a little bit in the morning. 
I woke up first thing this morning saw him hit it off the first tee.   Saw his‑‑ two birdies and almost birdied 8 and 9 I believe and I came over here and I had to turn my phone off when he was on 15.
So I'll be definitely watching.   And I'm catching a red eye to go work for him on Monday at the Canadian Open. 

Q.   Are you more nervous playing or watching him play?
DAN QUINN:   Playing.   Playing.   You do things when you're playing, you just don't‑‑ and I'll say this in defense of the scores this year.   Eventually this course is a beautiful place and it's a beautiful golf course, and anybody looking at it should say these guys‑‑ Jack had a great week last year and shot 9 or 10 under.   We've shot that to win this thing.
But when you don't play a lot annually, you keep score half dozen times, all of us, two tournaments a year, this is what happens. 
Sometimes it just bunches up and everybody's a little tentative, and I fall into that trap this year.   Usually just come here and you try not to wreck and try not to get out of it. 
And the point system, you don't want to jam a par putt by and make a double bogey because you miss your bogey putt.   There's a lot of things that go through, and I saw everybody doing it with this format and this golf course. 
That said, I get the juices flowing when I'm with Ernie, and I love it when from the time we get to the range.   Especially when we have a chance to have a good finish in a tournament, getting out there, he's really come on from where he was a year ago, having missed the cut in the British Open and I worked for him in the Canadian last year. 
The last 12 months he's really fought hard to get himself back to where he believes he should be in contention.   This is two majors in a row he's got a chance to win on a Sunday. 
And I think‑‑ I don't know, maybe I just try to feed off of whatever he's doing there tomorrow.   I was nervous watching him this morning.   But I'm more nervous watching him than when I'm caddying for him, and I'm more nervous playing.   The least of the three is when I'm caddying.

Q.   Seven players within six points.   We haven't seen that in a long time. 
DAN QUINN:   Nobody's ran away.   I'm sort of a little disappointed.   Kicking myself because a good round today and you got a heck‑‑ I could have got to 47 or 48 and you have a nice cushion tomorrow.   That said, it is what it is.   Like Tony and I both said, we haven't played great but we're still here.
I think you'll see a lot of guys, they get off to a good start tomorrow and it will probably be what everybody at NBC dreams of:   The last three holes will decide it.   And I think it's going to be, it will be interesting because the front nine, when we've got the nines configured, two hard holes to start, which used to be on the back nine are now 1 and 2.   And then really when you if you don't get those two par 5s, 4 through 9 is‑‑ 5 through 9 is a good stretch of holes.   Not a lot of birdies. 
So if you get off to a good start and you get those holes, then there's some birdies on the back nine.   So we'll see what happens.   I think it's going to be a lot of fun and it's great to see John Elway and Tony Romo guys that have not won they have a chance.   So I'm looking forward to it.   I'm really excited. 

Q.   What did you hit on 17?
DAN QUINN:   8‑iron.   Foot from a million.   I was looking at it:   Come on, man.   I would have played hung over tomorrow if I could have sunk that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT