AMERICAN CENTURY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 17, 2010
Dan Quinn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: We're joined by Dan Quinn. Why don't you take us through the round real quick, and then we'll get some questions. 
 DAN QUINN: I basically had two similar rounds two days in a row. I made one putt over on the last hole was the longest putt I made. I hit a lot of greens, a lot of good shots. Haven't really been in trouble. 
 But on this tournament, there's such a precedent on birdies over just playing solid golf, you need really need to make putts. And I just haven't done it. 
 But for the most part, it's been -- I have seven birdies, everything was three feet except for a couple of them are 2-putts and 8-footer on the last hole the other day. Looking at Billy Joe, that's going to be tough to catch. 

 Q. Does Billy Joe have a game that's particularly conducive to a day like today?
 DAN QUINN: You know, as I said, he hits it far, so there's -- the format's gone to the Stableford. Obviously, to make two birdies and two bogeys is fine. But if you make two birdies and two pars, it's not that big a deal. It's just two points. 
 So at the end of the day, when you have the length to get to par 5s -- Billy Joe putts these greens well. So today, looks like it would have been interesting until obviously 16, 18, he finished it off good. I heard he got a nice break on 18 with a poor tee shot. That's the way it goes.
 You just have to see if you can shoot a 66 or 5 tomorrow and see what he shoots.

 Q. Is he the kind of player that it's tougher now because he's solid and you mentally get a little fatigued because he's solid?
 DAN QUINN: Me? When I get mentally fatigued I don't make putts. But this tournament, this event, when it's the Stableford, as I said, it make your birdies as much as you can and obviously but today at 66 it's a good score. I'm not sure what he shot yesterday. I'm sure he's pretty far under par. 9 is the record pretty close to that.

 Q. Game plan tomorrow? 
 DAN QUINN: If I would say anything, my goal would be -- what am I, 12 back? -- to trim that in half by the turn, and you can make six points up in nine holes. 
 So to do it over the course of 18 we'll see what happens, but get within a shot hopefully by the 16th tee or something like that. Let my little drive down there against his big one and see where we go. But it's going to be fun. Tip your hat to a guy that's played great and hopefully somebody can shoot a good score to make it an interesting contest by the end of the day.

 Q. You had a few frustrations last year on the back nine. How are you comparing last year to this year, and are you doing anything to overcome some of your challenges that you had last year?
 DAN QUINN: Last two years, if I birdied at the last I would have won. I hit poor shots on 18 two years in a row. As far as this year, it's just different. 
 I mean, I've played really well to the green and hit a lot of greens and had a ton of birdie putts, to make one 8-footer and miss half a dozen to eight 6-footers and 5-footers is the difference why I'm not in 50s as well. As I say, tomorrow's going to be a fun day.

 Q. Danny, could you tell me about, you played with Rick today and he really struggled like no other time probably in this tournament. Can you tell me what was going on with him?
 DAN QUINN: Well, he hit two good shots on 1 and two good shots on 2. Looked good. And he hit a poor chip on 3. And then it seemed like he kind of just got unraveled, started with three pars and played two pretty good holes. Didn't play too well on the 4th and 5th hole. 
 All of a sudden you're sitting there, I think, with no points or something like that through five holes. It's looking at that leaderboard, it's kind of bizarre. But obviously he's had a great run here, and I don't know how well he's played up until now, but he didn't have his best day today.

 Q. He had a really good round today. Do you think he can follow up with something like that? Because it's extraordinary. Tolliver had an excellent round, do you think that's going to be fulfilled again by him tomorrow, or do you think he's going to fall because of overconfidence or what?
 DAN QUINN: No, no. He'll play well. You just have to -- if you look at the way that -- just looking at the scores, you try to put a thought in your head, but a 66 and a 74, that's not unheard of. And 12 points seems like a lot. 
 But obviously if he breaks par tomorrow, it's going to make it, virtually, especially if he does it with a 5 birdie 5 bogey type of round. That's going to be a lot of points. So it will be interesting to see. He's very aggressive, see how he plays with the big league. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thanks, Dan. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT