AMERICAN CENTURY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2009
Dan Quinn
Tony Romo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Tony, why don't you start us off, take us through your round with the highlights and any low lights.  
 TONY ROMO: There were plenty of low lights. You know, I didn't hit the ball very well today. I started off hitting it pretty decent off the tee. But my iron play was a little bit off. And all day I was kind of fighting that.   
 So I tried to do different things to just kind of get around par and make a couple birdies.   
 At the end of the day, the number's okay. But I didn't really play that well today. So I'll have to pick it up tomorrow and hit it better to beat these guys, that's for sure.  
 THE MODERATOR: Danny, how about you, you started off a little bit slower than you probably wanted yesterday but came on pretty strong today.  
 DAN QUINN: I birdied 1, if that's slow -- I didn't get the two par-5s. And then I birdied 7. I bogeyed 9. Anyway, I made one putt on 13. I hit a great 3-wood on 16 down to about four inches, made eagle. Hit a good putt on 17 and 3-putted 18.   
 So I felt like I left -- but at this point my hat to the guys behind us. Sounds like they played great. Tons of birdies, especially the last four holes. We had a little stall there and made an eagle and turned around. And Grant made eagle, and I think Tony or Rick both made birdie. And Tony birdied 17.   
 TONY ROMO: Just Rick, not me.  
 DAN QUINN: So I thought maybe the eagle might get me going. Anyway, it's going to be tough. The guys are playing, those two guys at least who were here, seven-point leads on Tony and I. We'll have to shoot a mid-60 round and see what happens.  
 THE MODERATOR: You had 68 today. How far out were you on 16 on the second shot?   
 DAN QUINN: Like four inches.  
 THE MODERATOR: How far out were you?   
 DAN QUINN: 250.  
 THE MODERATOR: Not a bad second shot there. You've got four guys here, the two that were in here before you and you two, that have been in the hunt so many times. You've won this event four times yourself, Dan. Tony's been right there on the cusp of it. Once again, here we go again, Tony.   
 What are you looking at tomorrow? What do you think it's going to take? Do you think 65? You shot 68. Tony, if you were stroke play today, what would it have been?   
 TONY ROMO: For me it's just going to be, you know, everyone talks about putting, but for me it's just getting it closer to the hole. I think really I just missed too many easy shots sitting in the middle of the fairway.   
 You've got 80 yards and I missed a green. I missed some other from 110. Stuff you can't do. I think if I tighten up the iron play I'll have a chance because there's plenty of holes to score out there.   
 I'm driving the ball pretty well. So I think that as long as I get the iron play worked out a little bit I'll have a chance tomorrow.  
 THE MODERATOR: From what we're hearing, there's a lot of guys talking about it's all about putting; if somebody gets out with a flat stick tomorrow, it could be something special.  
 DAN QUINN: Well, I mean to make -- what I saw, obviously if you 1-putted the last four greens you're putting good. 16 green is great. You should make putts on that. But the other ones, you need a little bit of a bounce here and there. Or you need to be convicted on your stroke. If you come out of it at all it's gone off line.  
 But like Tony said, I think I chipped twice in two days. So you've got to hit it close. And then when you're there you've got to hit good putts. If you wish them in, they're not going to go in.  
 THE MODERATOR: How far out did you have on 18? You were there in 2, weren't you?   
 DAN QUINN: Yeah, 22 or 23 feet, left it three feet short and missed the next one.  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions.  
  
  Q. Tony, your name has been in the news for other reasons. Yesterday you took the lead. Mentally where are you right now?  
 TONY ROMO: I'm pretty much the same. I mean, you always -- I enjoy competition. I enjoy competing. I enjoy playing. Doesn't really matter what it is. Obviously I think you love -- I love football. But I really enjoy playing other things to compete against guys who are talented in their own right. So it's fun.   
 When you go out there on the football field, on a golf course, you lock into what you've got going in front of you. And you just try and -- the more stuff you've got in your mind, probably the less successful you're going to be. So the only thing I think about is the task at hand. And when you let your mind wander or think about other things, you're just setting yourself up for failure.   
 So I just try and stay focused and do what you do, and I've done a pretty good job of that this week.  
  
  Q. How do you deal with the distractions on 17?  
 TONY ROMO: (Chuckling) Well, you just gotta -- it's fine when you're walking up there and everyone's hooting and hollering, it makes it fun, a fun environment.   
 But I think when you get over your putt, or over your shot, you just clear your head and you know your task at hand. You either can do it or you can't. It's not anything more than that. There's no secret to it. You either you can repeat the swing under pressure or you can't and just think about what you've done on the range.  
  
  Q. You had a U.S. Open hat yesterday. Masters today. What have you got tomorrow?  
 TONY ROMO: Starter (Laughter). I love Starter.   
  
  Q. Record round, final round for the Stableford format. This event is 31 points. Is that a danger tomorrow, do you think?   
 TONY ROMO: How many points did Grant have today?   
 DAN QUINN: I don't know if I 2-putted the last one I would have had 31. It's definitely doable. Actually more than doable. You just have to play.   
 I have to say one thing for Tony: Obviously I think this is his third year. The first year I won I was still playing the NHL. But it's Grant and Rick and I have been playing a lot of golf the last 10 years.   
 This is a great welcome addition, a current player, the promise of Tony. To play as well as he does, I'm sure he'll find as he plays football -- playing tournament golf is addicting. It's a fun, fun thing to do. It's fun to prepare. Obviously I saw he played a Pro-Am with Tiger. Probably enjoyed that. But it's been a great thing for this event, the way Tony plays. And hopefully he wins as a current player. That would be great.  
  
  Q. Let's check the last stat. Until today the record was 31. Fuhr had 32 points today.   
 TONY ROMO: Yeah, and I had to sit and watch it all, too. Eagle, eagle. Birdie.   
 THE MODERATOR: Any other questions? Thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT