SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 6, 2014
Krista Donald
Andy Landers
Khaalidah Miller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   We'll start with an opening comment from coach and the student‑athletes. 
COACH LANDERS:   It was the kind of game I think that we thought it would be:   extremely competitive.   We just felt challenged defensively by a very good Vanderbilt team, a team that has skillful players who cannot only make shots, but make plays and execute extremely well.   That was a big challenge for us. 
We felt like our players answered that challenge.   I thought we played outstanding in the first half.   Second half missed some pretty good looks at shots.   But Vandy, to their credit, just kept playing, doing the things they do so well, and cracked us a few times with back‑door cuts especially. 
Hard‑fought game between two very good teams. 
THE MODERATOR:   Khaalidah. 
KHAALIDAH MILLER:   I thought we played really well as a team tonight.   We played really well defensively.   Even at times in the game where we weren't doing as well as we wanted to do offensively, we stayed the course and guarded them on their end, which is the best I've seen us play defensively all year. 
Vanderbilt is a very good team. 
KRISTA DONALD:   I felt like we stayed focused throughout the game 'cause at certain points in time we sort of kind of slipped, but we regained that focus and we stayed to it, got the W. 
THE MODERATOR:   We'll take questions. 

Q.   Coach, end of the first half, probably about last 12 minutes or so, can you talk about that stretch.   You held them down to one point and no field goals for a long time. 
COACH LANDERS:   Defensively that's when a lot of things just came together.   We knew what we wanted to do.   We knew how we wanted to defend them.   We started the game that way. 
But we had some cracks.   We had some little breakdowns.   I think as the game got played, after about 10 minutes, all five of our kids were on the same page.   We were playing close to exactly the way that we wanted, the way that we hoped we could play defensively and affect the things Vanderbilt was trying to do offensively. 
To their credit, I thought they adjusted a little bit in the last three or four minutes of the half and just pounded it inside to Webb on us because we really were up on them on the perimeter, which left the inside somewhat vulnerable one‑on‑one.   They got it in on us and I think scored a couple of baskets there. 
But I think it was a culmination of having played that first 10 minutes, everybody getting a grip on exactly what it was we wanted to do together that made us so effectively in the first half. 

Q.   Coach, the first time Lister had 24 against you.   What was different this time? 
COACH LANDERS:   We guarded her better (laughter). 
You know, let me just say this about Lister and Foggie.   I'm sure they have a lot of big fans.   They don't have too many bigger than I am.   I really enjoy watching them play.   I've enjoyed watching them grow and develop as players.   When I've scouted them through the years, it's just been fun. 
Now that said, you have Lister and Foggie.   You asked what happened, what was the difference in Lister.   You've got to be almost perfect to guard them both on the same night.   I haven't seen very many times, very many box scores, where Lister and Foggie both, say, got half their average.   Doesn't happen. 
Tonight was a night that for whatever reason we were effective with her.   Foggie still broke us down with some back‑door cuts and a couple of early threes.   Next game it might be just the opposite. 

Q.   Khaalidah, you talked the other day about their defense, all the different ways they can confuse you and rattle you.   They had turnovers the first time you played them.   What was that like tonight as the point guard? 
KHAALIDAH MILLER:   They definitely tried to pressure a lot coming up and down the court.   I think we held our composure as a team as a whole.   We did a lot better with the ball when they were pressuring us, not turn it over so much. 
People were getting open, getting in the gap like we practiced.   That's something we didn't do the first time.   I think we executed very well against them in the press. 

Q.   Talk about playing South Carolina again after last week. 
COACH LANDERS:   I think we'll be excited about it.   I know I am.   The game at South Carolina started with a South Carolina run.   It put us on our heels.   That lasted about five, six minutes.   After that the game was a game. 
Can we repeat and improve on our last performance?   I certainly think so.   So I'm excited about playing them again.   I look forward to it.   I think our players will look forward to it. 

Q.   Krista, you looked quite comfortable in the post today.   Tell me about that. 
KRISTA DONALD:   I just went out and played hard, which is what I try to do every game.   I just let it come to me.   I mean, if I do good, that's what I'm hoping.   But sometimes the game's not always perfect.   Just have to go out and play. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT