ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 7, 2004
Paula Radcliffe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 

Q.  Has this made up for what happened in Athens?
 
PAULA RADCLIFFE: I think it's very difficult to make up for it.   Like I said before, it happened.  It's over now and this is moving on from there.  But in it's own right, winning here in New York is very important to me.  I've always run well here in the past.  It's a great city with a great atmosphere and I'm really, really happy to be here and run well. 
 

Q.  It seems like your best marathons have been almost time trials.  Have you ever been challenged like that the way you were challenged today by the second-place finisher and can you just talk about what that means in terms of tactical racing, how do you keep your focus on winning the race when someone is right on your tail, ready to take it from you at the last .02 miles?
 
PAULA RADCLIFFE: Well, in a lot of races, I've been in that position, maybe not a marathon race but in a lot of the other races.  I mean, I've raced Susan for years, probably ten or 12 years now.  We've know each other very well and I'm really pleased to see her back running well, as well. I think it's maybe a little bit different position for me in America than on the track because I am confident with my finishing speed.  Maybe I could have run sooner but today was about winning the race.  It wasn't about times.  It was about taking in the atmosphere and enjoying it and winning the race. 
 

Q.  Was there any doubt in your mind as you entered Central Park, even that you were going to lose the race?  It seemed like you were pretty determined at that point.
 
PAULA RADCLIFFE: Yeah, I was pretty determined.  I was struggling a little bit with my stomach.  I think I was -- I ate something last night, it was cold and I reheated and woke up in the middle of the night with pretty bad indigestion.  It was okay in the race and just came on at 23 miles.  In this case it was just hanging on to finish.  I knew that once I hit the line, it wouldn't matter if I threw up. 
 

Q.  Can you just describe what is going through your mind when Susan is right there in the final mile?
 
PAULA RADCLIFFE: We were running alongside each other pretty much since -- I think maybe about 20, 21 miles.  In some ways, I'd say we're pretty relaxed running along side each other.  It's not like either of us is really competing with the other.  But we both tested each other out a little bit and I was just feeling confident and just hanging on and then just running hard at the closing stages to win the race. 
 

Q.  Were you pretty sure this was not going to be a race like other ones, that you were going to have it put away early, even as you run the first 15 or 16 miles, were you pretty sure that you there were always going to be people close to you until the late stages?
 
PAULA RADCLIFFE: I think with the quality of the field, it was going to be a competitive race and possibly the nature of the course, as well.  But really, today was not about times to me.  It was just getting in there and enjoying the race and enjoying the atmosphere. 
 

Q.  Until it got down to you and Susan, I notice you kept your distance from the field, an awful lot of them running well over to the right and obviously in your other marathon it is wasn't an issue.  Can you talk about your desire just to separate yourself from everyone?
 
PAULA RADCLIFFE: Probably it wasn't really intentional.  It's just when you've got the whole world, you're right there on top of each other, in some races you do have to watch your step a little bit in terms of uneven areas or potholes.  Probably just trying to find the best area of the road to run on.  
 

Q.  What did you eat last night that made you sick?
 
PAULA RADCLIFFE: It was just spaghetti bolognese.  I was just going for the basic pasta. 
 

Q.  There's a huge crowd out there today.  How did the crowd and the people of New York help you through the race and help you finish the race?
 
PAULA RADCLIFFE: They were great.  The atmosphere was really, really good.  So much support for me out there.  It was really surprising.  I could obviously feel the support for Deena, but there was a lot of British support out there and thank you very much for that.  The atmosphere, it was really good.  It was fun going through all of the different boroughs.  The only quiet area was going through the bridge at the beginning and then you had the good views, so it was nice. 
 

Q.  I heard you say several times that you've always wanted to run this race.  Why hadn't you before?
 
PAULA RADCLIFFE: It just had not fitted in.  Simple as that.  It just hadn't fitted it in. 
 

Q.  You requested the number 111, why was that?
 
PAULA RADCLIFFE: It was one of the ones that I had in my first in London, so I just thought, have that. 
 
PAULA RADCLIFFE: Yeah, it did. 
 

Q.  What about the training a few weeks ago made you decide to go and say, "I'm going to run"?
 
PAULA RADCLIFFE: There wasn't really a specific training run.  It was just after feeling pretty bad and the left knee injury healing post-Athens, I just started to feel a bit more like myself and my training was coming together.  I just decided I wanted to come here and race. 
 

Q.  Was there ever during that race a moment of doubt?  You mentioned about 23 miles feeling a bit sick, what was going through your mind and/or were you always confident all the way through?
 
PAULA RADCLIFFE: Do you mean doubts for winning the race? 
 

Q.  Yeah.
 
PAULA RADCLIFFE: Not really.  I think just maybe doubt that I would hold it together.  But no, all the time that I could hold onto Susan, I was confident that it would come down to a close battle at the end.  I just needed to just hang in there. 
 

Q.  Was there any moment during the race where you had any flashbacks back to Athens?
 
PAULA RADCLIFFE: Not really.  I kind of run it past at mile 22 and thought about it.  (Laughter) No.  I felt totally different.  I felt totally myself.  My legs might have been a little bit tight because it's the end of the season, but nothing like that horrible feeling that I had, nothing like that. 
 

Q.  How confident were you to win this sprint?
 
PAULA RADCLIFFE: Like I say, reasonably confident.  I know Susan is a really strong athlete, but I've raced her for a long time and I was confident, I had run the last half of the course quite a bit so I knew exactly when you turn from Columbus Circle how far it was up there and that hill I've raced in the mini as well. I knew I had a lot left so I was just holding myself together until I could get to the last. 
 

Q.  Were there any sort of hiccups on Columbus Circle?
 
PAULA RADCLIFFE: No, I didn't clip, I saw it -- I thought it was just flat and then as I saw there was a rise there.  But no, I didn't hit it or anything. 
 

Q.  Did you miss the drink station?
 
PAULA RADCLIFFE: Yeah, one of my bottles wasn't there.  I don't know what happened there.  I got to mile eight and I got to table six before, it should have been and it just wasn't there.  And I didn't want to take somebody else's bottle so I just went out. 
 

Q.  Do you feel this sends out a message to the world about Athens, coming back to win here?
 
PAULA RADCLIFFE: I don't think it was about sending out messages.  It was about running well for me and enjoying it and just being back to racing normally and in it's own right, winning here in New York is very special to me. 
 

Q.  In your other great marathon runs, you had implied earlier in the week that you would run your usual race here but you didn't, why is that?
 
PAULA RADCLIFFE: I just said earlier in my race that I would run my normal race, in that I would run how I felt.  I felt good at the end part of the race and pushed on.  There was a group of us running strongly and then the second half of the race was quite windy today.  I wasn't actually thinking about it.  I think I saw the first three or four -- I saw the halfway splits and I wasn't really checking the splits.  We were just racing.  It's a nice way to run it. 
 

Q.  The last few hundred yards, did you pick it up or did she fall back?
 
PAULA RADCLIFFE: I think I picked it up.  I picked it up up the hill. 
 

Q.  With this late decision that you made, how much real quality work were you able to do in the last five or six weeks, or really is that victory, the training is mainly based on the residual effects of your pre-Athens training?
 
PAULA RADCLIFFE: I did a lot of good high-quality training pre-Athens.  You're not going to lose that in two weeks of interrupted training and two weeks recovering.  So that was there, and it was just a case of just getting back to running and taking over and enjoying it.  It was a reasonable level of training. 
 

Q.  And this time you were in Flagstaff?
 
PAULA RADCLIFFE: That's right. 
 

Q.  How long were you there?
 
PAULA RADCLIFFE: We were there about four and a half weeks, and thank you to everyone there at the High Altitude Training Center for welcoming us there and making us feel really at home. 
 

Q.  You've come back from disappointments more than once in the past, I just wonder how this compares, the joy you take from this compared with previous comebacks, is this your biggest comeback?
 
PAULA RADCLIFFE: I think certainly it was the biggest disappointment.  And yes, it is, it's important to come back and run well.  It's just important to just be back feeling happy and feeling like myself again. 
 

Q.  It seemed the way the race played out that it seemed like more of a really long cross-country race in a timely manner, the distance and then gauging the finish line --
 
PAULA RADCLIFFE: Yeah, it was definitely a race rather than any concerns about the time.  I didn't even know what time I finished.  I had to ask afterwards.  Like you said, it was just about winning the race, and over the last six, seven, eight miles, I don't think we were looking at splits.  We were just racing, and it's a nice way to run. 
 

Q.  What happens next for you?
 
PAULA RADCLIFFE: A couple of weeks easy.  I'll run in the race on the 28th of November and I'll just take four or five complete breaks of holiday time. 
 

Q.  What kind of race?
 
PAULA RADCLIFFE: It's a 10K. 
 
PAULA RADCLIFFE: Thank you. 
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT