ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 1, 2009
Paula Radcliffe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Can you talk about the race? You said you had a twinge?   
 PAULA RADCLIFFE: Yeah, I wasn't able to run the last two legs because I had a pain in my tendon. I had a jab in it. I really thought it was going to be okay. But I knew I was fit coming in. It felt great, then at 11 miles it just went. For the last miles I was just thinking just hang in there as long as I could. Just try to stay with them.   
 I couldn't believe they weren't running faster. I was thinking, "hang in, hang in." And as it started getting closer, I thought I had a chance. But when they got away, I just -- uphill I couldn't do like the downhill. I think I used a bit too much to get back to [] Christelle. And it just came in my legs, and I just couldn't keep going the last 300 meters. Yeah. I knew it was a risk, but we were hoping my leg would hold.  
  
  Q. What was the feeling going into the race knowing that you hadn't run for two weeks, and everybody was thinking this is Paula, every woman's dropped out, this is Paula's? How was it leading up?  
 PAULA RADCLIFFE: It was hard, to be honest. I knew it was going to be against my leg. And I was feeling really bad. Like Wednesday, Thursday, but once they got it on Friday, I ran last night. I couldn't feel it. I was thinking, finally it's okay. I'm just very disappointed.  
  
  Q. Can you explain the injury? It happened two weeks ago?   
 PAULA RADCLIFFE: Yeah, I was doing my last workout. Just on the last couple of K I started to feel it consistently. It's actually a twinge, it's a tendonitis in the tendon behind the knee. They scanned it, there was no tear. It was just tendonitis, like fluid build-up in there. It's just really sore.   
 Like now it doesn't feel bad. The cortisone shot helped, I think.  
  
  Q. And right now?   
 PAULA RADCLIFFE: I can't bend this leg. I can bend this one.  
  
  Q. Last time was different. This time was harder because it's New York. Maybe you would not have a good memory of this race?   
 PAULA RADCLIFFE: No, I'll definitely have a good memory of this race. I don't think it will affect my memories of New York. I certainly want to come back and try to win the fourth one another time. But I had a problem in the two weeks leading into the race, and kind of didn't want to say too much about it, because I didn't want people to know that they could maybe run away from me if it started to go. I hoped it would be okay because it felt good yesterday, felt good the first ten miles. But at 11 miles it got sore.  
  
  Q. Maybe the operation that you had affected you? No, it's another thing?   
 PAULA RADCLIFFE: Well, indirectly, because I think the foot is very good now, but in coming back from it, I had the hamstring problem in August, and then that was okay. Then just two weeks ago the other end of the hamstring from the other leg.  
  
  Q. Derartu was your rival for a lot of time.   
 PAULA RADCLIFFE: Yeah, Derartu's lovely. She's waited so long. Like even in the race she was like, "Come on, Paula, come on."   
 Unfortunately the really frustrating thing is I don't even feel tired now, but my legs just couldn't go any quicker.  
  
  Q. Your daughter is always here?  
 PAULA RADCLIFFE: Yeah. She just said, "Mommy you have a boo boo."  
  
  Q. Thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT