UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT SAN ANTONIO FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 25, 2017
Frank Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
UTSA - 6, Louisiana Tech - 20   
 Q.  I know a disappointing night.  But now you've got to sit back, and the anxiety of being eligible, but not guaranteed.  What did you tell the guys tonight in the locker room?  
COACH WILSON: Yeah, the object of this game is to score touchdowns and when you don't score touchdowns, you won't have favor.  To score touchdowns and to deny a team from scoring touchdowns, in both those regards, we were not able to do that today unfortunately.  Had some opportunities in the red zone, in the tight red zone, within the five-yard line and did not score touchdowns and that's unfortunate.   
 Q.  The first half, it seemed like Louisiana Tech was able to run some stunts and do some twists and get some penetration.  You kind of neutralized that for a lot of the second half.  
COACH WILSON: Yeah, we did.  You know, and it allowed us to then get some drives started at times.  But as I alluded to, the drives are one thing.  Scoring touchdowns are another.   
 Q.  The defense really fought tooth-and-nail, came up with a couple turnovers.  What did you tell the guys about their play and how they did tonight?  
COACH WILSON: They did a good job.  At the end of the day, though, when we had them backed up in there, we get gashed for a big run at the very end.  But I thought they had a valiant effort and played extremely hard.   
Special teams created a turnover at the very end for us to give us the ball inside the 20 to make the game they interesting at that point and they threw an interception.   
I thought our defense did a good job for the most part.  Early on we missed way too many tackles and their back was elusive.  He did a really good job but I thought we did enough defensively to put ourselves in position to win this game.   
 Q.  What does next week look like to you?  I know it's recruiting time and you've got to get -- you find out next Sunday if and when you go to the Bowl, so recruiting is top of the list?  
COACH WILSON: Well, no, our team is, and we'll meet tomorrow and to give them directives on what's going to happen in these next several days, and then we'll have a team meeting next Sunday.   
Unfortunately we allowed our fate to be in a Bowl Commission or Bowl Committee's hand that's going to determine whether we get an opportunity or not, when it presented itself today that we could have solidified it.   
So we're hopeful.  I think we'll get a shot and we'll pick up from there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT