UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT SAN ANTONIO FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 31, 2019
Brenden Brady
Frank Harris
Savion Harris
Frank Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 Q.  The offense came out today after the first possession, you scored touchdowns on three straight drives. Were you happy with the offensive performance today?  
  
  
  
  
 Q.  You had multiple penalties throughout the game. How do you go about correcting that for the next few games?  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 Q.  Frank Harris, just what was it like for you to get back on that field and play in a football game?  
  
  
 Q.  Coach, was he worth the wait?  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 Q.  Frank, I have to ask, how did it feel walking down the hall when you came out, and once the game started you looked like you did when you were a senior at Clemens High School. Where was the rust? Everybody expected some rust, but I didn\'t see it.  
  
  
 Q.  You connected on your first 13 passes. What was the secret to being consistent and keeping the offense moving for long drives?  
  
  
 Q.  Is that sort of how you envision the offense going, more ball control, kind of long drives and sustaining when you can?  
  
  
  
  
 Q.  SaVion, Coach Morris was talking about that the defense really surprised his team tonight. What did you guys do out there maybe differently than normal?  
  
  
 Q.  Brenden, can you talk about the run game and the play of the offensive line? Looked like you guys had some holes out there to get some rushing yards today?  
  
  
 Q.  Coach, I thought early in the weekend, and I think everybody kind of looked at that, you said that the strength of your defense was the defensive line, and Coach Morris said tonight that I thought you guys -- they weren\'t going to be able to deal with that physical front that you guys were able to rotate. Can you talk about that? You kind of shut them down.  
  
  
  
  
 Q.  Brenden, being a San Antonio guy, what was the atmosphere like out there with both of these teams and their fan bases in the same venue tonight?  
  
  
 Q.  Frank, you had a lot of success converting 3rd downs running scramble plays. What do you look for in those situations? What was the key to your success there?  
  
  
 Q.  Frank and Brenden, when you look at this, I know you guys have a lot of teammates, but for San Antonians it\'s pretty exciting to see quarterback and two running backs from San Antonio. How cool is that for you guys to see that?  
  
  
  
  
 Q.  Coach Wilson, it\'s been a long time since the Roadrunners won a game in this building, and the fans at the end of the game seemed in a celebratory mood. What\'s your message to the Roadrunner fans who stood by you guys last year?  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT