NBA DRAFT 2017
June 22, 2017
Frank Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Could you start off with an opening statement about your game and what you'll bring, please?
FRANK JACKSON: Sure.  I'm super excited to be in this situation.  You know, to be a part of New Orleans and the organization means the world to me.  I'm part of the NBA.  People can expect me to be a fierce competitor and someone who can lead a team and get out and defend.  Just play my game.  I'm just super excited to be here and grateful for this opportunity.
Q. Frank, talk about playing with two big centers like Anthony Davis and Boogie Cousins.  What's that going to be like for you?
FRANK JACKSON: I mean, those are two of the best bigs in the league.  It's going to teach me a lot.  It's going to allow me to play with those guys and just learn.  I'm looking forward to it.
Q. What did you have talking with Coach K getting ready for this process?  I'm sure he's helped all of you guys, but what did he say to you in this process and how he helped you off the court?
FRANK JACKSON: He's been tremendous from day one, and he's really had my back and has really supported me throughout this whole deal and tends to give me his words of wisdom.  But for the most part, just to be there and to know that he cares for me and wants the best for me.
Q. Loving the suit; you get best dressed of the night.
FRANK JACKSON: That means a lot, thank you.
Q. Can you tell me about the short pants and the color and everything?  How did you go about --
FRANK JACKSON: Yeah, so it's from Ella Vive (phonetic), Shandra, she's great.  Sat down with her and picked out what I wanted to do.  She gave me a few options.  Fell in love with this.  I don't know, I just think this fits me well, and you only get one of these, so it's pretty cool.
Q. Do you wear a lot of like short pants?
FRANK JACKSON: I do, even like my jeans and even my sweats and stuff, I love them kind of like -- not high water, that's what my dad calls them, but that's my style and I like that.
Q. Did you know you were going to be going to New Orleans the whole time?
FRANK JACKSON: No, I didn't.  Just minutes before the Hornets picked, I found out, and I'm so grateful.  But they weren't in my mind to be honest.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT