FAMILY CIRCLE CUP
April 1, 1995
Natalia Zvereva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Did you ever feel like you were in the match today?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA:   Not really, no.  It was tough for me.  I came out and I had very, very low energy and I couldn't really, like, bring it up.  I've tried and it just didn't work and she hits the ball very loopy-type spin, that makes it even more harder for me to get a groove and into a rhythm. 
 

Q.  You said you were tired yesterday, is this a result of just playing so much tennis?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA:   I think so, yeah, that's pretty logical to think so. 
 

Q.  How was the party last night?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA:   Excuse me? 
 

Q.  How was the party?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA:   Which one? 
 

Q.  You said you were going to a party last night.
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA:   It was a banquet.  It was Family Circle Magazine Cup Player That Makes A Difference Award banquet, yeah.  It was good.  It was good food.  I ate and a stayed as long as I could and I left.  I was getting a little tired. 
 

Q.  When you woke up this morning you just felt a little bit lethargic?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA:   I don't think lethargic is the word.  It's just that I just felt very low energy, yeah. 
 

Q.  I know it's your game to be aggressive and things likes that, but when you're feeling like that did you ever think of maybe taking more time on the play?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA:   It wouldn't be a very good idea because for me to play safer and have a lot more patience than I did, it probably means that I would lose easier because she was wearing me down really well.  She knows that and that's how she is basically playing all the time; she wears an opponent down and she goes for a kill.  If I was trying to play more safer I think I would just die out there.  I was getting really, really tired. 
 

Q.  Safe to say you tried just about everything you could think of against her; I mean drop shots, coming into the net some and none of it worked?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA:   None.  It's -- it seems to be that way when I play against her in clay; especially slow surfaces and high bounce.  On faster surfaces like maybe grass or indoors I have more -- my tactics work a little bit better, yeah, because then I'm able to come in a little bit more and try to put vollies away more. 
 

Q.  Those first four games you lost all of them but you had the advantage in three of them so you must have lost some key points.
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA:   Yes, I've lost a couple of really important points and if I were to have won a couple of games it probably would have made the first set a lot tougher and it would probably let me get into the groove a little bit more, but I guess not. 
 

Q.  You always seem to be running in her at this tournament.  I think this is the fourth time in the last six years you've played her in the tournament.
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA:   I think I played her quite often.  I played  her in championships first round, yeah. 
 

Q.  What do you think of her chances of repeating?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA:   Excuse me? 
 

Q.  What do you think her chances are of repeating?  Do you think she's playing well enough to win it tomorrow?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA:   Yes, I believe so.  I don't think she'll have any problems whoever she's playing against; either Silvia or Maggie.  I mean, I always give credit to another player but I just think Conchita's game is a lot more suitable for clay than the rest of the -- the two of the other people. 
 

Q.  Feeling the way you did this morning is it safe to say you had really no confidence when you went out there?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA:   I had very little confidence last night playing Larisa too, but I think she felt also a little bit nervous and that might have given me more of an edge. 
 

Q.  Do you think changing the date on this tournament, moving it a week right next to Lipton hurt it a little bit?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA:   A week right next to Lipton? 
 

Q.  Well, it used to be Houston and then --
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA:   Oh, yeah.  I don't know, this tournament seems to be doing really well with player attendance apart from pulling out, but I guess it's injury.  So I mean whoever played here, Conchita and Arantxa and Gabi and -- you know, that's quite a field out there, so I think it's doing really well in the dates.  I mean, the only disadvantage is of course going from hard courts to clay court, but we're all professional athletes.  If you made up your mind, go ahead and go do it. 
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA:   Thanks. 
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT