FAMILY CIRCLE CUP
March 31, 1995
Natalia Zvereva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Just sort of a general comment, you know, on how you played today?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA: I think I played good.  I won my singles match.  It was very tight under the circumstances, weather and plus I had to play somebody I know really well, I wasn't really comfortable and we almost completed second match doubles so it was a good day. 
 

Q.  Is this kind of your tournament?  This is one of your tournaments or one of the places you have a specialty for, you always seem to make the semifinals.
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA: Well, I guess you're right. I mean, I can't argue with you.  I mean, I wanted to but I couldn't.  If the statistics say I'm making semifinal here pretty often, well I'm here I guess. 
 

Q.  Any particular reason for it?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA: I don't know, I try to play good every time.  Well, you know, it happens to be that I make semifinal in this tournament quite often so I guess it just works out for me, yeah. 
 

Q.  Do you think you adjust to the -- cause you're always coming from Lipton, do you adjust to the clay courts faster than maybe some of the other players who are also doing the same thing?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA: It is hard especially -- I wouldn't say because it's slower from hard court, but because there's a lot of different and difficult bounces, that's why it makes it really hard.  But I know I like to play this tournament anyway and I make up my mind and gosh, you know, if I lose in the first round, that's a tough luck.  I mean, I could have lost in the first round, sure, because it was a three setter, tough against a good player, but I make up my mind and as long as I don't have any regrets I just go ahead and play the tournament, you know.  And I've been coming here very often since '88, maybe '87 so... 
 

Q.  You mentioned it was tough playing a good friend.  How close are the two of you?  Do you hang together a lot?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA: Oh, no, oh, no, we're not close at all.  We're not friends.  I just used to play doubles with her and that's why I know her very well. It was very tight, my emotions were, you know, I just could not relax.  When I can't relax out there in the court it's trouble so... 
 

Q.  Was it a revenge thing?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA: Oh, no, don't be silly. 
 

Q.  How gratifying was it?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA: Excuse me? 
 

Q.  How gratifying was the victory?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA: Just the same as against everybody else.  It's just we know each other so well, I think our games, and it's always hard to play somebody that you know very well and from the same country and -- I mean used to be from the same country. 
 

Q.  Is that confusing?  I mean, you used to be from the same country, how do you guys look at it?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA: I guess if you know geography it's not confusing, not for me.  It's not really.  
 

Q.  Any part of you that considers her still from the same country?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA: I don't really give it a big thought.  I mean, like from different countries.  I mean, it's difficult to think that we are from different countries even though it happened quite a while ago.  We might as well get used to it by now.  I mean, it's still there, it's the spirit of the countryship.  It's still there!  Anyway. 
 

Q.  Can you detail a little bit about why you broke up as doubles partners?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA: Why did I broke up with doubles partners? 
 

Q.  Why did you break up, you and Neiland as doubles partners?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA: Excuse me?  What was her name again? 
 

Q.  Neiland.  I can spell it, I can't say it.
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA: Why did we broke up?  She broke it up.  I believe she had her own reasons, so I guess she broke it up and here we are four years later or three or four. 
 

Q.  Blessing in disguise sort of because it led you to teaming with Gigi?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA: Did she -- 
 

Q.  Was it a blessing in disguise sort of because you teamed up with Gigi eventually?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA: Well, I believe everything that happens is for a good reason and it's a destiny in a way.  I mean, it's great that I teamed up with Gigi and it worked out so well. 
 

Q.  What's the machete there for?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA: That's from the party. 
 

Q.  What?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA: That's from the party, yeah.  Nothing special. 
 

Q.  I thought you were taking up the O.J. --  What about your match with Conchita, what are you looking towards with her?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA: Again, it will be hard because she's one of my tour friends and we hang out once in a while.  I'll just have to tough it out, go for it. 
 

Q.  She does a lot of spins and top spins and slices, how difficult does that play --
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA: It's awfully hard to play against her because she is a very talented player and that gives her an edge over other players in a way that at the big moment she can still pull out something special.  I mean, if you're up on the lead and you think you might win the set or match, she can still come out strong and give you something different.  And again, I mean, I just really hope it will be a good match.  It will be hard for me to play with all the amount of tennis I played lately, but I'll fair up just like for any other match. 
 

Q.  Are you feeling tired at all?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA: Yes, I am, yeah.  I'm feeling a little tired but I have another banquet to go to tonight and hopefully I'll go there and I will have a great time and wake up tomorrow feeling great and play one match and then finish the other one and if I win the other one I'll have to play another one and then I if win the other one then I'll have to play a lot more tennis.  So just the way it comes, take it.  
 

Q.  Maggie told us the other day she's been pretty intrigued by the O.J. Simpson trial.  Have you been following it at all?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA: No, not at all.  I followed it in Japan because CNN was the only English, you know, spoken program out there, so that's why I had to follow it cause I miss the TV, but not really. 
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT