THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 22, 1995
Natalia Zvereva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Close, but no cigar, Natasha. Do you feel like you are getting
closer to beating Steffi?

NATASHA ZVEREVA: I believe so. I work on it each time and hopefully
by the end of my tennis career, maybe I will win, I hope.

Q. What is it you think you did today to get her off her game?

NATASHA ZVEREVA: What did I do today? Well, I played a match,
yeah.

Q. Anything about what you did in your shot-making that you
think you could have upset the type of game that she plays?

NATASHA ZVEREVA: I believe I did a pretty good job. I had my own
tactics and they worked out pretty well, yeah. I can't say I am
really recovered from the last two matches last night. It was
a very bad schedule; but who am I to complain? I am playing here
in a tournament.

Q. Yesterday, Judith Wiesner said, compared to last year she
had improved very much. Do you agree with that?

NATASHA ZVEREVA: Well, I guess if Judith said that I trust her
and I believe her.

Q. What is your opinion about it? You played her often enough.

NATASHA ZVEREVA: Well, every time we meet, basically she either
plays extremely well, or well. She never plays "under well."
So I wouldn't say she improves since I played her last time. I
mean, not drastically, no, let me put it that way.

Q. Anything else?

NATASHA ZVEREVA: This is lively.

Q. Did you notice after she struck the ace, the movements that
she made that followed the movements you had made after you hit
a backhand winner?

NATASHA ZVEREVA: Good for her, I am glad. I am glad she was able
to top that shot. Well, although it wasn't that spectacular, I
have to admit that. It was just a serve, You know, I don't hit
my backhand, one-handed often enough, so I thought it was pretty
spectacular - anyway, I thought so.

Q. Natasha, do you feel Monica should get some kind of special
seeding treatment when she comes back?

NATASHA ZVEREVA: Seeding treatment?

Q. Well, you know, I mean, the ranking, when she comes back,
so she is not going to play a qualifier or something?

NATASHA ZVEREVA: Yes. I believe the Tour is going to make sure
she will be in a one of the top positions so she doesn't have
to play a seeded person right away in the first two rounds. So
I believe that is a good way to put it at the moment.

Q. Have you talked to her much? Do any of you guys talk to
her at all, Monica?

NATASHA ZVEREVA: I could not say for anybody else. But not personally
me, no. It is very -- I haven't really had a relationship with
her on the Tour. I don't believe many people did anyway, so, no,
personally not me, no.

Q. Do you think it would be good for the Tour if she did come
back?

NATASHA ZVEREVA: Oh, very good, yes. I personally would really
love if she can handle her, I guess, herself being scared and
afraid and come back and I know she is very tough. I know she
can do it.

Q. Do you understand why a lot of the top players, they keep
themselves removed from the other players in terms of relationships?

NATASHA ZVEREVA: I don't understand that. Do you think it is that
way right now?

Q. I think with some of them.

NATASHA ZVEREVA: Well, you are probably right. Some of them; but
not all of them. Yeah, I do believe there is good relations between
all of us.

Q. I don't mean that you don't get along, I just mean in terms
of becoming good and close friends, they keep themselves in their
own little camp.

NATASHA ZVEREVA: I guess it is individual choice. Whatever a person
chooses to do, I guess that is her or his own deal. Maybe they
feel very private or don't want to be bothered. I am certainly
not that way, you know, I seem to be liking basically everyone
on the Tour.

Q. Speaking about you, are you never really angry about losing
a match even if it is close and you could have won a set?

NATASHA ZVEREVA: If I'd be angry about this match, I would be
a fool, really. I think it was an extremely great experience for
me and plus I am very grateful that I won last night's match because
it was very difficult to stay in there, and come up and give a
good effort this afternoon without a rest, it is unbelievable.


Q. When you walked off the court you got a pretty big ovation
from the crowd. I think it was more than just the fact that you
had played her closely, but I think the people-- the crowd appreciated
your gestures and enthusiasm of playing; you seemed to be having
fun out there. Can you talk about that a little bit?

NATASHA ZVEREVA: Well, I certainly hope you are right and I'd
love that if it is really that way. I seem to be getting very
comfortably on the show courts, basically most of the time and
I guess it gives me an adrenaline to see a big amount of people
watching me and plus especially, if I play good, and if it is
a tight match; if it is a really good match, I like that - I really
do.

Q. Do you think your success in doubles has something to do
with that, the enthusiasm or you are likely to play there more
now?

NATASHA ZVEREVA: No. No, I think it is just me individually. I
have learned how to do that and I'd like to continue if I can.
I will try anyway.

Q. Within the last year you have made one big step forward
to the absolute top singles players. What is the main reason for
that?

NATASHA ZVEREVA: Can you rephrase that, please?

Q. Yeah, I will try.

NATASHA ZVEREVA: Okay.

Q. You improved your singles game very much in the last maybe
6, 8 months. What do you consider the main reason for that besides
having won more matches?

NATASHA ZVEREVA: I guess me being happy, really. I guess that
-- if I am basically happy with myself and I am having a lot of
fun, I know nothing would matter anyway and if I do my best, that
also -- I have been brought up that way and that is what I am
trying to do right now just basically have a lot of fun, go for
it, and enjoy it.

Q. Do you have a coach now?

NATASHA ZVEREVA: I have a hitting partner.

Q. Do you ever think you would want to have a coach again to
perhaps move up even higher or do you think, no way, I don't want
that?

NATASHA ZVEREVA: At this particular moment I would say no way.
But my mind changes in about probably every each day, I don't
know.

Q. Why don't you prefer to have a coach right now?

NATASHA ZVEREVA: Because I am doing so well without him, dammit
(kiddingly). No, really, because I think I am doing really well
without one, why would I want to change something? If it wouldn't
work out, then I might give it another thought and try to come
up with something better, maybe. Jim Fuhse, that was not my song.


Q. What is your song? Which song did you want?

NATASHA ZVEREVA: It was either Off Spring or Metallica, Off Spring,
"come out and play".

Q. Which song did they play?

NATASHA ZVEREVA: Four non-blondes (sic). What is up? Okay, thanks.


End of FastScripts....... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT