VIRGINIA SLIMS CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 16, 1994
Natalia Zvereva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Natasha, why did it just slip away at the end? 

NATASHA ZVEREVA:  I pretty much going for every shot, and, you know, I was trying to go for every shot in my whole match, basically, and the first set she was taken by surprise pretty much, I think, and that's why it worked out really well, and the second set and the third set, I was still going. She was up 5-2 in the third set, but I was going for every one of my shots and I was still going at 5-4 and it just didn't work out.  A couple of them went out and she passed me a couple times. 


Q.  Were you tired from last night; and would you have played better if you didn't play so late last night? 

NATASHA ZVEREVA:  No, it doesn't really matter any more. It's just that my mind is willing to go, but my body is not really.  It's kind of a -- it's the end of the year and I played pretty well in Philadelphia, I made to it the end of the semis and I can feel I'm really trying to go for every ball and I almost injured myself twice today. Once was my ankle and once was my knee, my cap almost fell out of my knee. 


Q.  So when you say, "your body couldn't go", you mean did it effect -- the last match, did it effect you a little bit, your performance? 

NATASHA ZVEREVA:  I wouldn't, put it that way.  It's just the whole experience, the whole year, it's like
you really want to go for it, and there's also top players out there that you have to give them credit. 


Q.  Did you work out what that problem was? 

NATASHA ZVEREVA:  I'm sorry? 


Q.  What was her problem at the end? 

NATASHA ZVEREVA:  Funny, I guess she one-footed me and I went the other way-- 


Q.  Her problem. 

NATASHA ZVEREVA:  Sorry? 


Q.  Her problem; what was her problem? 

NATASHA ZVEREVA:  I don't know.  When-- 


Q.  5-1, 5-2? 

NATASHA ZVEREVA:  When she went -- I have no idea. 


Q.  Do you have any goals for next year? Doubles? 

NATASHA ZVEREVA:  Not really.  I'd just like to play and do my best and take match by match and enjoy myself out there, basically.  Have a fun life off court, on court.  That will be pretty cool. 


Q.  This year you've come back to the top ten first time in five years; what's made the difference; why is it happening? 

NATASHA ZVEREVA:  I think this is the major key.  Just to have fun out there and I feel like if I do that, I'm in control.  If I'm out there goofing around on the practice court or on match court and just, you know, enjoy myself, it's just that I feel like I'm in control, even if I'm losing I'm still having a good time. 


Q.  Has it always been that way for you or is it only until recent years that you started to have that kind of attitude? 

NATASHA ZVEREVA:  No, it's in the recent years about maybe -- actually, I've done really well in that department for the first year my whole life.  It's just that I have that free flow, basically and kind of like every match is just-- I don't know, it feels really nice. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT