FAMILY CIRCLE CUP
April 3, 1994
Natalia Zvereva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What happened out there today?  
 
NATALIA ZVEREVA:  Well, it seems like every time I play  her there is very a tight first set and then,  like, I am always leading in the game, like  whatever, 30-Love or 40-15, and for some reason, I  can't finish it.  It is just -- it has been quite  windy today, so that had been a big factor, and  that is what happened.  She played very good.  She  basically outplayed me in the second set, very  tough.   
 

Q.  Did you ever feel into the match  completely like in the second set?  Did you lose  concentration or anything?  
 
NATALIA ZVEREVA:  Not really.  I wouldn't say I have lost  my concentration, but it was like she got better  and better with every game, and it was only me  that could have, you know, done something, and I  have tried.  I mean, like, I knew I had to be the  one that would be more aggressive at the beginning  because she was spinning me -- she was trying to  top spin a lot, and I knew that I wouldn't do the  same thing; I wouldn't just lay back and try to  topspin again.  So I was trying to be aggressive  at the beginning and pretty much in the end did  really click at the end of the first set.  In the second, as I said, she  pretty much outplayed me.  I tried to do the same  thing.  I knew I had to come in anyway if she was  going to pass me.  I knew I had to come in  anyways, so --   
 

Q.  You had three game points at 5-4 on  your serve and you lost all three of those?  
 
NATALIA ZVEREVA:  Yeah, 40-15, double game point.   
 

Q.  What were you thinking when you were  down 45, in the 10th game, the first set, when you  were up 45 trying to tie the set at 5-5-?  
 
NATALIA ZVEREVA:  45?  I am sorry.   
 

Q.  You were up 45?  
 
NATALIA ZVEREVA:  What is 45?   
 

Q.  40-15.  
 
NATALIA ZVEREVA:  Oh, 40-15.  What I was thinking there?  I was just hoping I could close that game so it  could be 5-All.  It would be a very even situation  and just see what happens then, but I couldn't  close it out.  She won the set.   
 

Q.  You had three game points to go to  5-5.  Was that any sort of let-down as a result of  that; felt discouraged after that at all?  
 
NATALIA ZVEREVA:  Not really, no.  I was still pretty  much into the match, and that first game of the  match was really tight too.  I think I had some  game points there, which I didn't convert.  And  she was moving me around very well this match, and  I had to struggle a little bit.  And she uses the  wind very good.  She uses it very well and she  moves the player around, so it was just my job  trying to get all those balls back.   
 

Q.  Didn't try as many drop shots today as  yesterday.  Is that because she didn't let you do  that?  
 
NATALIA ZVEREVA:  Not necessarily.  She is a far more,  better-- more like going forward than Mary, so  that might have been not a very good idea, which I  thought it wasn't.   
 

Q.  How often have you had to play for a  final in the singles and turn around to do it in  the doubles?  
 
NATALIA ZVEREVA:  Already three this year, so --   
 

Q.  You think that wears you down  tournament after tournament playing singles and  the doubles or are you used to playing it?  
 
NATALIA ZVEREVA:  No, I think it does me good.  It is  just you know, gets me in better physical shape,  for sure.  It might be tough mentally.  It is  tough mentally more than physically, but I think I  have done a pretty good job coping with it, so as  far as I am concerned I am okay.   
 

Q.  How do you feel overall about the  season you have had so far?  I mean, do you still  feel pretty good about the way the year is going  for you?  
 
NATALIA ZVEREVA:  "No.  I am so unhappy.  I have been to  three finals and I won only one."  (Player  laughing) What kind of a question is that?   
 

Q.  How about a career in acting?  
 
NATALIA ZVEREVA:  I am in Seventh Heaven right now.  Right now, I am.  I am flying somewhere there.   
 

Q.  Natasha, you don't have a full-time  coach yet you started off this year as one of your  better first halves of the year.  Have you ever  thought about getting a full-time coach?  
 
NATALIA ZVEREVA:  I would not consider a full-time coach.   
 

Q.  Why is that?  
 
NATALIA ZVEREVA:  I have thought about it for a few years  and I don't think it is a good idea for me.  I  mean, I'd hate to pay somebody to push me.  So I  just -- I don't like to be pushed by other people;  especially doing physical work, whoa, I do that a  lot myself, so it is just about enough.  I always  do push myself to do things, either it is a  workout or practice.  Matches are easy.  Matches  are like, well -- but practice, that is what, you  know, what is tough, you got too tough it out when  you practice.   
 

Q.  Talking about the mental strain of  doubles and singles, is it tough to get motivated  for a doubles match or --  
 
NATALIA ZVEREVA:  Well, you know, Gigi played an amazing  match yesterday, she did.  She -- I had some  little hangups, little things, she was just  great.  I hope she will do the same.  It doesn't  matter if we win or lose, but it is always a  matter of staying together in doubles; staying  together and communicating and just be good people  to each other and good human beings and good  partners.   
 

Q.  Do you recall ever having losing two  service games at Love recently in a match as you  did today?  
 
NATALIA ZVEREVA:  No.  I can't recall that right now.   
 

Q.  Do you recall it today losing two  service games at Love?  
 
NATALIA ZVEREVA:  No. -- Yeah.  Now that you made me  recall it, I recall.  I recall.  I recall.   
 

Q.  Are you happy to be taking a break now  from singles; do you feel kind of worn out and  ready to put it away for a while?  
 
NATALIA ZVEREVA:  Yeah, I will make sure I won't play  tennis for two weeks or so when I get back home.   
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT