FAMILY CIRCLE CUP
April 2, 1994
Natalia Zvereva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Your timeout, what was it for, your  five minute break?  
 
NATALIA ZVEREVA:  Yeah, that was a bathroom break, sir.   
 

Q.  How does it feel to make the finals  here after you have done well here in the past and  now you have made it all the way?  
 
NATALIA ZVEREVA:  Not yet.   
 

Q.  Well --  
 
NATALIA ZVEREVA:  I have been playing this tournament for  a while, like, what, six years in a row or  something like that.  I like it very much.  It is  just, you know, it is a great way of, you know,  starting your clay court season a little bit.  You  know, just to play a couple of tournaments on  clay, green clay, then there is red clay coming  up, so it is perfect.  Then after this tournament  I am going to have a little rest at home.   
 

Q.  What were you thinking after what  happened in the first set?  What were you  thinking?  I mean, it went, like, really quick.  What were you thinking there?  
 
NATALIA ZVEREVA:  You know, last time we played in  Filderstadt, same thing happened.  She just  switched me off the court in the first set.  And  second set I had 2-Love going for me and I sort of  had a tough game and didn't win it.  I was, like,  again switching, but today I managed to stay in  the match.  I was again 2-Love, and then went  2-All, and then somehow I just stayed in there.  I  thought it was good because she was hitting some  winners from both of her wings; tough to get.   
 

Q.  When did you start dropshotting,  sometime in the second set?  
 
NATALIA ZVEREVA:  Yeah, I should have remembered in the  first set; just -- sometimes when you are on the  court, it is hard to remember all the things, so  it is good that I started thinking about it and  then it works.  Suddenly it clicked couple of  dropshots and she didn't get to them, so it was a  good idea.   
 

Q.  Did you know-- she said she had a tight  thigh muscle?  Were you aware of that, that she  wasn't moving as well as maybe she usually does?  
 
NATALIA ZVEREVA:  Well, I thought in the second set when  I was -- when it started to actually move her  around a bit more, then she wasn't moving as well  as she did in the first set.  But I never knew  there was a problem or anything like that.  I  just, you know, I like to stretch.  I stretch all  the time on the court.  That is what I thought was  wrong with her because she was, like, stretching  constantly.   
 

Q.  For those of us who don't know,  officially, it's Natalia, but why are you called  Natasha?  
 
NATALIA ZVEREVA:  It is my short name.  Natasha is short  for Natalia.  Natalia is a passport name, and when  I get old, maybe children will call me like that.  Plus, my dad's name, it is like -- it is an  initial.  It is the way children, respectfully,  call adults.   
 

Q.  Natasha or the --  
 
NATALIA ZVEREVA:  Natalia.   
 

Q.  Are you playing your best tennis now or  do you feel that you are at your peak now playing  or do you still -- do you still get better this  week or even in the coming months?  
 
NATALIA ZVEREVA:  I don't think I am playing the best of  my tennis because I do certainly think when I play  my best tennis, I am making winners from all over  the court.  That is where I think I am playing the  best tennis, so obviously, I am not making  winners.   
 
      It is like today, I thought in the  first set I was trying to crack the ball, and I  could not crack at all.  I was just like making  errors and stuff, but you know, just -- I guess,  right now, it is not my kind of game; just to  start trying to make winners at the beginning,  right from the beginning of the match.  I think I  have to work things in.   
 

Q.  Last year you got injured in the first  round, right, you had to retire.  I forget what  happened then.  

Q.  Last year in the first round?  
 
NATALIA ZVEREVA:  Yeah, I had a back problem.  It was a  spasm in my back, yeah, which I think I still  finished that match; didn't I?  Yeah.  I didn't  retire, yeah, it was a set and something, but --   
 

Q.  Comment on both Martinez and Majoli,  what do you think of both of those players?  
 
NATALIA ZVEREVA:  Martinez and Majoli.  Well, very good  tennis players.  What else can I say?  Well, it  will be really tough no matter who I play  tomorrow.  They are both an extremely well clay  court players, very good, so I just-- it will--  both will be a tough match.  See what happens.   
 

Q.  How excited are you to be in the  finals; to have made it to the finals here at  Hilton Head?  
 
NATALIA ZVEREVA:  I am very excited.  Very, very excited.   
 

Q.  Natalia, didn't you reach the finals  your very first year here.  

Q.  Lose in the finals?  
 
NATALIA ZVEREVA:  I don't think so.  I don't think I have  ever been in the final here.   
 

Q.  That was against Graf back in 88?  
 
NATALIA ZVEREVA:  Yeah, yeah.  That was a really good  year for me.  I think it was 88, yeah, that was an  extremely good year for me.  Actually, I think  that is where I started my really good year in 88,  I think, this tournament.  Then it was French, you  know, some tournaments in the fall, it was good.   
 

Q.  How much better are things for you off  the court?  I know you have had complaints in the  past about the money being taken away from you and  things have changed in that aspect.  Does that  help with your tennis?  
 
NATALIA ZVEREVA:  Of course.  It made my future secure;  although, when I was playing many years ago, I  just didn't know I could make any money off it.  It is not fair in some sort of sense because when  you do -- when -- tennis is fun, but tennis is  work too, I mean, I couldn't just, you know, just  be a lawyer or something or make money from  another profession or occupation.  So it was not  fair for me not to make any money, so I was a  little bit concerned of that.   
 

Q.  That first year you got through the  finals.  Did you get to keep any of that money  that you earned from that?  
 
NATALIA ZVEREVA:  No.  No.  That was 88.  No, I have  given it up for another year and half since 88 and  then I think in 90, actually maybe, 89, that is  where I totally broke up with the Tennis  Federation.   
 

Q.  Did you ever get the red convertible  you said you wanted back then?  
 
NATALIA ZVEREVA:  That wasn't convertible.  Bad memory.  Just a red one.   
 

Q.  You have had some tough matches this  week.  How much confidence -- having won all of  those, does it give you more confidence going into  the finals?  
 
NATALIA ZVEREVA:  It has been an awful lot of  three-setters for me this week, and you know, it  is really good because I look at my body and there  is no injuries, I feel really good about my body  now, I mean, I haven't had a strain or anything  like that in like a few months now, so-- and I  spend a few -- some time in gym right now working  out.  I guess that helps out a lot.  So I am going  to continue doing that.   
 

Q.  What have you been doing in the gym,  lifting weights?  
 
NATALIA ZVEREVA:  Yeah.   
 

Q.  How much time are you taking off after  this tournament?  
 
NATALIA ZVEREVA:  I have two weeks off and then I am  playing qualies for Federation Cup; then again a  week off and I am up in Rome.   
 

Q.  This being the first clay court event  of the year, you have done so well.  Do you get  adjusted, do you think, to clay quicker than the  other players; is that a factor at all?  
 
NATALIA ZVEREVA:  No, I don't think there is anything  special in me adjusting quicker, so, no, just like  everybody else.   
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT