THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 15, 1994
Natalia Zvereva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You got sick during the second set?

 NATASHA ZVEREVA:  Well, I still am.  My right side of my stomach,
I have a huge pain just right above the rib inside and just won't
go away.  I thought it was because I didn't drink enough.  But
obviously I am fine, and yesterday I started drinking, and this
morning and just wouldn't go away.  I had taken 7 Nuprins - not
at one time.  I am not that dumb.

 Q.  How long have you had it; started yesterday?

 NATASHA ZVEREVA:  Since yesterday night.  I started drinking.


 Q.  Was the second set the first that it really bothered you
during the match?

 NATASHA ZVEREVA:  I had it this morning when I was practicing,
it went away, and right before the match, it went on again.  Then
when I started playing, it was gone, and so it came back like
after the second set, started and never gone away yet.

 Q.  What game in the second set did you feel it?

 NATASHA ZVEREVA:  Right from the beginning.

 Q.  Correct me if I am wrong, but I can't think of the event
-- I seemed to remember, though, you were sick in another tournament,
maybe last year, and you like won the match.  I mean, almost to
the point you, like, play well sick?

 NATASHA ZVEREVA:  It was Delray last year.  I had a fever all
throughout the match.  I said if I win the first set, I might
as well go for it.  I won the first set and just, you know, adrenaline,
I guess, got out and I was booming.

 Q.  Which round was that at Delray?

 NATASHA ZVEREVA:  First round.  But that was totally different.
 Now it is just the stomach problem.

 Q.  She had set point against you in the first set.  Do you
remember that point?

 NATASHA ZVEREVA:  She did?

 Q.  That is what she said.  Unfortunately, most of us missed
the first set.

 NATASHA ZVEREVA:  When?

 Q.  I don't know.

 NATASHA ZVEREVA:  I don't remember.  She might have.

 Q.  I do remember at the end of the first set you kind of
strutted to the chair inside between changeovers.  Were you feeling
particularly confident at that point or did I just misinterpret
your walk?

 NATASHA ZVEREVA:  Oh well.  I have about five different answers
for that.  I have to choose which one.

 Q.  You can do all five.  It will be really good.

 NATASHA ZVEREVA:  No, you know, I never try to do those things.
 I never deliberately try.  It is just something that was -- comes
out, naturally, so whether I was confident or whether I was trying
to you know, I don't know.

 Q.  So this puts you in the semis with Brenda Schultz.  I
guess you guys are pretty good friends?

 NATASHA ZVEREVA:  Yes, we are huge friends, so it is always tough
to play against each other.

 Q.  How long have you known each other and what kind of things
do you do together?

 NATASHA ZVEREVA:  Well, we have been pretty like good friends
for about three years now, and once in a tournament we hang out
together and go out for dinner or something.  Always share our
information, our personal information, so we are very close friends,
I'd say.

 Q.  Do you see similarities between you two, personality-wise?

 NATASHA ZVEREVA:  Tough one.  I don't know.  I hope we are different.
 Well, we get along great together, I think.  And we had a mutual
coach.  We had one coach, the both of us, I was with him for a
year and a half working.

 Q.  Nunez?

 NATASHA ZVEREVA:  Yeah, and she had a longer period.  So that
brought us very close, too.

 Q.  But you no longer are with Juan?

 NATASHA ZVEREVA:  No.

 Q.  Are you working with someone else?

 NATASHA ZVEREVA:  No.

 Q.  Actually, Brenda was saying that she likes the entertainment
variety of tennis and I think you are someone who, whether you
mean to or not, sometimes you are entertaining?

 NATASHA ZVEREVA:  Well, I hope so.  No, I am joking.

 Q.  Do you agree with that assessment?

 NATASHA ZVEREVA:  Yes.  I totally, 100%, agree with her. I think
it just makes women's tennis and doesn't matter which tennis,
any tennis, or any sport, more interesting, more exciting.

 Q.  What is the T-shirt?

 NATASHA ZVEREVA:  I will let you read.

 Q.  "Metallica."  Four are gone, as far as the seeds.
 What does that say -- what is going on today, basically, I mean,
this is unbelievable?

 NATASHA ZVEREVA:  I will tell you what.  There is so much more,
so many more good players right now and players are not in the
top 10.  Obviously, because No. 2 and No. 3 seeds are gone, did
you say that?

 Q.  Four.

 NATASHA ZVEREVA:  Just No. 2, 3 tells you right here evidence
there is so much -- so many more good players around.

 Q.  Could you talk a little bit about your French Open preparation;
what tournaments you will be playing?

 NATASHA ZVEREVA:  I will be playing Berlin and that is it.  Rome
doubles and Berlin singles and doubles and I have a week off,
and then there is French.

 Q.  Pretty light for you going in?

 NATASHA ZVEREVA:  I have done it for about maybe three years
right now.

 Q.  Really?

 NATASHA ZVEREVA:  Yeah, I think so.  I think I have played Rome
singles before, but I decided not to, so I am just coming out
there to have fun and play some doubles.

 Q.  Does it help you stay fresher before the French to not
play as much?

 NATASHA ZVEREVA:  Not -- I don't consider it like that. It is
just -- I like variety, and Rome is a good place to hang out.
 I mean, it is nice and I can also like practice there; try to
prepare for Berlin and Paris.

 Q.  On clay, who is some of the really tough players for you
to face on clay?

 NATASHA ZVEREVA:  Well, which ranking, for example?  You mean
out of the top 30?

 Q.  Sure.  And specifically like in Paris.

 NATASHA ZVEREVA:  Everybody is tough.  I mean, there is -- everybody
is tough.  Everybody.  Extremely tough.

 Q.  Is it because you are on the clay that it is so tough
or --

 NATASHA ZVEREVA:  Yeah, people are right now so much more stronger
physically, and that is what gets them through playing on clay,
because that is where you are patient and you are fit -- being
fit also helps you very much, so prepare for -- players are just
so tough; getting tougher and tougher.

 Q.  Do you feel like you are fit enough to stay out there
and --

 NATASHA ZVEREVA:  No, I am going to die tomorrow.

 Q.  Don't do that.  I mean, is that something that you concern
yourself, too, getting fit for that?

 NATASHA ZVEREVA:  Yeah, I think if you take care of your body,
it is just another part of being professional; you take care of
yourself and prepare so -- you know, just gets you through, I
guess, and hey, I was at the final at the French Open and it was
done on clay.  It was a lot of years ago, but --

 Q.  For someone who is one-half of the No. 1 doubles team
in the world, you seem to be playing singles perhaps better than
some might expect.  What is the reason for that?  At least for
the first three months of the year?

 NATASHA ZVEREVA:  Geez.  I am just playing tennis.  I really
am.  I am trying to be as tough as I can and also have a lot of
fun, and I guess that might be the major reason that gets me through.
 But I do enjoy the things that are happening to me right now,
like being in the semifinal at Lipton and win 7 Grand Slams in
doubles and yet, I just enjoy it so much that -- because you have
to.  I mean, you have to because one day I will play next tournament
I will lose first rounds.  I will still enjoy it to the point,
but that is a tough question.

 Q.  You have always been capable of this kind of test, we
saw it when you made the French Open final.  This is not unusual
tennis for you. What has been the problem for you as far as consistency,
you know, doing it more regularly? You seemed to have found some
solution this year.

 NATASHA ZVEREVA:  I have learned a lot in the past two or three
years.  I have learned so much.  I have learned that if you don't
have fun, then there is trouble.  I am trying to enjoy things
as much as I can right now and that just helps me tremendously.
 Just take things easily, that is such a help.  I mean, not being
totally like focused only on tennis, just tennis.

 Q.  But you are obviously working hard too at the same time,
right?

 NATASHA ZVEREVA:  Yeah.  I do push myself all the time. I'd said
I do not enjoy practicing that much, but I have learned how to
enjoy it.  I didn't used too.  I have learned to have fun even
on the practice court.

 Q.  Do you find that easier to do without having a coach,
without having someone standing over you?

 NATASHA ZVEREVA:  Oh, yes.  Oh, yes.  Yeah.  Me and Gigi have
been hiring hitting partners at locations. That had worked out
very, very well for me.

 Q.  Thank you.  Natalia is at her highest ranking right now,
No. 14. 


  End of FastScripts....


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT