VIRGINIA SLIMS CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 17, 1993
Natalia Zvereva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Natasha, were you a little slow tonight, or was that just the way she made you look? 

NATASHA ZVEREVA:  What kind of question is that? 


Q.  It's an original Barry Wood? 

NATASHA ZVEREVA:  Yes, it's very original.  No, I was okay, I thought I was okay, and I had to cover the whole court, so it made a little difficult. 


Q.  Is that actually some-- when you play probably more doubles matches than singles, is that sort of a little unusual to have the whole court to yourself? 

NATASHA ZVEREVA:  No, I thought I played a pretty good amount of singles matches this year, especially did a lot of quarterfinals in the tournaments and couple of quarterfinals in the Grand Slams, so not really, it's just, lately, like I had a little injury and it's still on, so, that kind of slows me down a little bit, because I'm always afraid whether I do it it will-- to worsen the injury, but I thought my game plan worked pretty.  Well, I was just hoping I would serve better in the first set, and I started serving a little better in the second, so that was good. 


Q.  Natasha, in the last three times you played Steffi, fourth including today, scores have been fairly lopsided; what is it about her that is so mystifying? 

NATASHA ZVEREVA:  Well, it is not really mystifying because she's the number one player in the world and she's really powerful.  She hits the ball hard.  She also can get some amazing angles and the shots that she runs around, her forehand is pretty amazing, I think, and it is not really a mystery, I think.  She's one of the best. 


Q.  She's what? 

NATASHA ZVEREVA:  She's one of the best-- she's the best right now. 


Q.  What do you have to do to win against her, or is it a mere -- 

NATASHA ZVEREVA:  I personally?  Well, just play better, I guess.  I mean, gee, it's hard.  You have to play better than her to beat her, which is really difficult.  Is that a great answer or what? 


Q.  What was the game plan that didn't work? 

NATASHA ZVEREVA:  Sorry? 


Q.  What was the game plan you had that didn't work? 

NATASHA ZVEREVA:  It did work, it did work.  I thought I tried to come in more than I usually do because purely on the baseline she's going to kill me pretty easy, so I thought I'd give it a chance and try to serve, you know, to the body and come in. Even if I'm not coming in really close after the serve, it is still good for a try because she can't hit her returns perfectly all the time. 


Q.  The hat you were wearing last night is great.  Where did you get it and what does it mean to you? 

NATASHA ZVEREVA:  The hat was-- I have so many hats.  I don't remember which one I was wearing. 


Q.  Hammer and sickle 1917-1991? 

NATASHA ZVEREVA:  Well, for your information, it is the years of communism-- 


Q.  The years of? 

NATASHA ZVEREVA:  The years of communism.  So it started in 1917 and it ended in 1991. 


Q.  What does it mean to you personally? 

NATASHA ZVEREVA:  Well, first of all I thought it was a pretty cool hat because it's black and red and it's great, but it felt comfortable and I thought for me being Russian and communism ending a couple years ago, I thought it would be really, really cool to have that hat and it was 19 bucks, so it was worth it. 


Q.  Where did you get it? 

NATASHA ZVEREVA:  Boogie's.  Here. 


Q.  Thank you. 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT