U.S. OPEN
September 8, 1993
Natalia Zvereva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. What happened?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA:  Well, what happened -- what?  Like why default? 
 

Q. Why did you retire?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA:  The day before yesterday night -- I mean, the night before yesterday night I felt very stuffed up, and congested, and pretty high fever. And the next morning after I played my doubles match, I felt kind of weak.  I saw the doctor and the doctor thought it was just a congestion; that it had to do with my throat and my nose, so he prescribed me a whole lot of pills, antibiotics and some other stuff.  Along with that I was taking Anthol (Phonetic).  It did help my fever.  It put it down a little bit, but overall, my body aches - like my whole body aches - and it is very weak, and I am like very, so hot and congested.  So I had -- I was praying, praying for it to be raining at 7:30, which it didn't happen unfortunately.  I thought that if I would come out tomorrow I have a better chance, but it didn't rain, so I guess I had to just go out and try.  But after three games I don't think I was able to give her a good fight, as I always try to do and I did not "tank," so that is what I did.  I mean, I had to go out and try. 
 

Q. When you played your last singles match you were fine the night after, I mean--
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA:  The night after what, the doubles match? 
 

Q. No, the singles match, you were fine, right?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA:  Gaidano. 
 

Q. Right.
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA:  I was fine.  Late night at 11 P.M., I felt not good. 
 

Q. I mean, when you played her you were physically --
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA:  Yeah, I was fine.  I was. 
 

Q. Was it a chance yesterday that you could not play the doubles?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA:  I couldn't play the double? 
 

Q. There was a chance, were you feeling sick yesterday when you played the doubles?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA:  Doubles is different.  I mean, I mean you are not moving as much.  I felt very weak in doubles, but they didn't play as well as they usually do.  We played them a couple of times on clay courts, and they played very, very consistent, so I felt weak, but you know, Gigi was there, at least. 
 

Q. You said you didn't tank.  You obviously are aware that some people are raising their eye brows at this.  You had said in a previous press conference that obviously you didn't-- I understand you didn't really have the drive or need or want to be a great singles player.  I mean, have you retired before and worried about what it is going to do to your reputation?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA:  I retired -- I remember exactly once this year with a humongous flu in Eastbourne.  I did not even go out and play because I was in the bed with, God knows what, I mean I was with a huge fever.  I just -- it wasn't even worth the try to go out on the court. 
 

Q. What everybody is thinking right now - just speak directly to it - is that you let this go so you could concentrate on the doubles so you could have a Grand Slam thing, you know, still possible and intact.  So would you speak to that? That is kind of what everybody is assuming right now.  Everybody is kind of thinking that you did in a form "tank" in order to save yourself for the doubles.
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA:  That is the big difference because I was hoping I didn't have to play today.  I was hoping.  I mean, could have just rained for one more hour and I would have a bigger try tomorrow because I thought with all these pills that I was taking, it will get better.  But obviously, because I defaulted today, I mean, I have another match tomorrow, so I might as well just go out and play tomorrow.  But if I feel like dying on the court I am going to default.  It would be a bit different in doubles because I am not playing for myself.  I am playing for a doubles team.  So -- that would be a bit different. 
 

Q. As I understand the rules, had your doubles match been tonight after this singles match, you would have had-- you couldn't have defaulted from singles and then gone and played doubles.  Would you have defaulted from this match if your doubles match would be later today?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA:  No, I think I would be staying in there and pretty much losing this match really badly.  I would have to do this, I would have had done it. I would have just stayed out there and God knows doing what, but I will do it because you would have to be defaulted automatically, right?  If you play -- 
 

Q. Did you spend the day on the grounds and if so, were you taking medication all day, or what were you doing to get through the day?  Were you feeling as bad as you did at night?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA:  I saw the doctor yesterday, so he gave me some pills.  I was taking the pills for a whole day yesterday through the course of yesterday night and today.  So I have been just pretty much -- had a little hit in the morning, about a 15 minute hit and I was just in the players' lounge, just sitting my rear, you know -- 
 

Q. Thank you.   


End of FastScripts....
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT