WTA TOUR CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 17, 1995
Natalia Zvereva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Natasha, what was the secret of your success?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA:  My dress, definitely.  (Laughter) Adidas came out with -- it has like not air inside the dress, but it's like something -- helium, there you go, like for the one that goes into balloons so they go up, so I move a lot easier, probably. 
 

Q.  Where did you learn those poses?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA:  It's very natural.  I wouldn't fake it. So if you try to fake it, don't. 
 

Q.  Can we talk tennis a little bit?  She saved three match points.  At what point -- there was lot of seesawing going on out there.  At what point did you feel you had any kind of control?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA:  I basically never felt I was completely in control of those three match points that she saved because her slice was getting really, really deep.  And it was hard for me to put any angle or any pace on that ball, actually, to come in.  Because that's what I was trying to do for the whole game, really.  I was trying to work the point up and then come in.  But it was really difficult because it was dipping and it was really deep. 
 

Q.  Is that why you started to serve and volley, your last service game, to put more pressure on her?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA:  She didn't really give me any heaters off her backhand.  She just kept chipping and slicing it.  I guess I had a good chance to come in after a good serve and maybe kill the volley. 
 

Q.  How difficult is it?  Obviously a pro Sabatini crowd. It didn't bother you.  Did you hear that, notice it?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA:  I thought at some points some people were kind of indecent.  I don't know, maybe I was wrong.  But it's very hard -- I know how big Gaby is in New York.  And I can't control that.  And I can't be a hundred percent positive about that, no way.  I'm just a human being, and it's good if I'll be like 90 or 95, that will be great for me. 
 

Q.  Natasha, you've staged two big upsets here.  And played two tremendous matches.  What are you taking from this?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA:  Well, first of all it is quite amazing to me, as I think I've beaten two of the top, top players.  And that gives me just a little bit of edge that I could still beat these sort of players.  And maybe I'll come out next time and I will be playing at least the same or close to it. 
 

Q.  What do you anticipate tomorrow with Graf?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA:  What?  
 

Q.  What do you anticipate of your next match?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA:  With Steffi? 
 

Q.  Yes.
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA:  I don't really anticipate anything.  I don't expect anything of myself, just as these two matches, I was just coming in and playing some tennis.  And it worked out that I played quite good and was able to keep up a good match out there for the tournament. 
 

Q.  Is there a point out there that you were worried that maybe the match was slipping away from you, when she broke you back?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA:  Obviously at 5-all, I felt like -- I mean, I felt -- I'm not going to lose, but it was really, really tight.  And she was starting to play better and better with every point.  And I was really fortunate to actually serve hold my serve at 5-all and keep it going. 
 

Q.  Have you ever seen an umpire take off before you shake hands?  Were you surprised by that?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA:  I was surprised because he left right before I went to shake his hand.  But immediately I realized that he's going to get booed, probably, so that's why he didn't want all the negative emotions out -- bringing him down.  But it was unexpected.  So I was shocked. 
 

Q.  What do you prefer, winning singles or doubles?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA:  Why do you ask me these questions?  I  don't prefer to win anything.  I would have loved to win as much as I can, as many matches as I could.  It doesn't matter if they're doubles or singles.  I always take things equally. I would never give up any part in doubles for singles or singles for doubles as a professional athlete. 
 

Q.  Do you think you'll attack Graf a little bit more than you did today against Sabatini?  Especially with her -- she's got that same, similar knifing backhand, Sabatini really grooved in at the end of that match.  Do you feel the urgency to get to the net and pressure her backhand, Steffi, because that's her weaker side?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA:  Well, thanks for pointing that out. Thanks for the tip.  It would be obviously harder, just because Steffi has a heavier forehand.  And if she gets her hands on that forehand, you know, you've just got to fish it out somewhere, somehow.  So it would be difficult.  But I would try to play just as I did these last two matches, try to play aggressive.  I have nothing to lose.  I've been playing not bad. 
 

Q.  Your serving at the end, you didn't get a lot of first serves in there, when it was real nip and tuck until the third set.  Was that due to fatigue or just pressure or just that's the way the ball rolls?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA:  I think you're right, for a physical reason.  Sometimes I lose my emotions because I get a little  tired.  I know at the beginning of the match I serve pretty good.  And I guess maybe because of physically.  And probably I tend to panic a little bit.  Because if my serve is not going, she has such a great return of the second serve.  She has you running around the forehand and hitting it inside out.  So that kind of makes it difficult, puts pressure on myself to make a first serve in. 
 

Q.  Natasha, you played the two longest matches of the week.  Is fatigue likely to be a factor at all tomorrow?
 
NATASHA ZVEREVA:  I would never go out on the court and say, oh, gee, I'm tired, maybe I'll give it a rest today.  No, I wouldn't do that.  But it all depends how I actually go in, in the beginning of the match.  If my tactic will succeed and if I'll be able to groove in, then I don't think it would be any problem. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT