WTA TOUR CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 15, 1995
Natalia Zvereva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Is this one of one of your biggest singles wins?

NATASHA ZVEREVA:  Yeah, I did beat her once this year, so probably two of my biggest wins.


Q.  What do you say to yourself to keep yourself in the match and get pumped?

NATASHA ZVEREVA:  I was trying not to talk to myself. Well, I guess if I was talking to myself, it would have been kind of weird.  So I tried not to.  And just basically not think about the -- I have chances.  And purely concentrate on every point.


Q.  You said before you were just happy to get into the tournament.  What were your expectations coming into the match?

NATASHA ZVEREVA:  I had none.  With doubles it's different because we are an established team, and there are probably more or less, but there are expectations.  Not in singles, though.


Q.  What about playing here at the Garden and being in this tournament?  What does it mean to be here, and especially after this win?

NATASHA ZVEREVA:  Well, first of all it's huge just to  make it here.  And you've got to have a pretty good record through the year.  And so for me, obviously, it was good to make it here.  And extra, extra good that I won the first round.


Q.  Natasha, what are you most pleased with in your performance tonight?

NATASHA ZVEREVA:  Probably -- no, certainly the way I sort of --  kept some sort of a coolness, that I tried to keep my concentration.  And I just told myself, the first time I beat her in Indian Wells this year -- is the way I played, I basically just played.  And kept my cool.  And that is what helped me to beat her.  And I said, why don't I just try to do it the same way and see what happens.  I mean, it was a lot closer than Indian Wells, obviously.  And with that match point at 5-3, it was very hard not to think about that point.  But I tried to just push it away.


Q.  Why have you been so good this year, when you haven't been that good before?  You've beaten her twice this year.

NATASHA ZVEREVA:  I have no idea.  Am I predictable or what?  I have no idea.


Q.  Is it her game has gone down from what it was, and you've improved your game or a bit of each?

NATASHA ZVEREVA:  Well, it's hard for me to say something like that, because I am the player.  And I am the one that had to play on the other side of the net against her.  If you might  think that way, then I guess that's what you think.  But I guess I just -- I was just trying to -- I always had a mental age -- she always had a mental edge over me and that's why I guess -- every match I played, I was not coming out just to lose, but she always had that little extra edge to win a huge point, and then give her a break to actually finish the set and then another.  So -- and this time, I feel like it's kind of even.  It is pretty even.


Q.  So you've really got a different attitude going into the match against her?

NATASHA ZVEREVA:  Yes.  And it doesn't mean I'm going to win, but I just have a little bit of a different attitude, just to try to keep my coolness and see what happens.  Because she doesn't really give you much.  I mean, you have to create your own pace and you have to create your own point in order to attack the ball and then kill it, if you have the chance.  And basically, I have to do that every time I play her.  And if it works, it's great.  But if it doesn't, then she's better than me that day.


Q.  Does your doubles experience help you in that she's also a very good doubles player?  Does that help you when you play her singles?

NATASHA ZVEREVA:  I've been asked that so many times.  I could say yes, but it's just a totally different ball game.  I guess maybe volley wise, probably, volley wise, and coming into  the net and maybe using some volleys here and then.  But that would probably be just about it.


Q.  You said a coolness was a key tonight in this match. You were able to keep your cool.  Do you remember an example maybe where under other circumstances you might have lost your cool, but you realized you were keeping it in control, in tonight's match?

NATASHA ZVEREVA:  Pretty much in the third set I did a very good job.  I thought I did a very good job of keeping my concentration.  That's about it.  But when you have a chance, when you do have a chance to close a match out and you don't because somebody is playing really well at that point, and you sort of hesitate a little bit, you always start thinking about your lost chances when you come out in the other court after a changeover.  So I think I did a pretty good job.


Q.  She used to be one of the most difficult players to beat, she was down, she'd keep coming back, do you think she's lost that a little bit?

NATASHA ZVEREVA:  I wouldn't say that, because I've just experienced, almost experienced, a good come back.  If I didn't tough it out in the last couple of points, that would have been really hard for me to win that match, if it was 5-All.  And maybe I would start having doubts after 5-All.


Q.  She used to win this kind of match pretty regularly, she doesn't do that anymore, do you feel that? 

NATASHA ZVEREVA:  What's the word --


Q.  She used to win this kind of match pretty regularly. She might be down 3-Love in the third or might be down in the third and might win the match.  She doesn't do that anymore.

NATASHA ZVEREVA:  Simply because the opponent -- let's say if I was on the other side of the net I would still feel the pressure, because I want to close this match out because I don't want it to go to 5-All.  And that's where you start keeping the pressure on yourself and then you might even lose some easy points, because sometimes I tend to panic.  And I don't know what I need to do.  I know I need to go for it, because that's the only way.  But it's also hard when I start missing balls.  And I think maybe I should play a little more safely.


Q.  How much of a game do you think is the mental game? Is it halfway or 70 percent, physical, and the rest mental? I'm talking about feeling pressure, like having the mental edge?

NATASHA ZVEREVA:  Well, mental edge is always there, it always probably will be there.  And physically it depends on the day.  Because I think sometimes I can match her up, physically; sometimes.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT