U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2018
Trent Phillips
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How disappointed are you?
TRENT PHILLIPS: Um.
Q. If you are disappointed.
TRENT PHILLIPS: I'm disappointed, but at the end of the day it's just golf, bro.  It's golf.  You got to come out here and take the wins and the losses.  Today I lost; got to move on.
Q. You carved out a big lead.
TRENT PHILLIPS: Yep.
Q. What were you doing well to get it that point?
TRENT PHILLIPS: Just staying consistent and making him work for the holes.  Kind of went on a little birdie run with 8 and 9 and 10.  Was a good stretch for me.  Kind of gave me a pretty good lead.
Kind of gave him one on 11, which if I wouldn't have did that we wouldn't even be (indiscernible) right now.  Yeah, I'm a little disappointed, but it's golf at the end of the day.  There is a lot worse things I could be doing.
Q. Do you think that pulling the driver on 14 was the right play still no matter what happened?
TRENT PHILLIPS: Yeah, for sure.  That's not a hard shot for me and not a hard shot for anyone in this tournament.  I didn't hit a good shot, didn't commit to it, and kind of cost me there.
Q. Was there any one play you would do over again, or was everything exactly the way you wanted to do it -- other than execution?
TRENT PHILLIPS: Yeah, nothing really that sticks in my mind.  I didn't execute the short putts coming in, and that's pretty much where the difference was in this match.
I missed short one on 15, 17, 18, and then here.  So if I make two of those we're not on this hole.
Q. 17, when you hit the putt, it looked like you made it.
TRENT PHILLIPS: I thought I made it.  I thought I made it.  It was obviously a misread.  It's really straight and I thought it would go left, but...
Q. On the last putt, I mean, it was a tremendous chip to get even that close out of that stuff.
TRENT PHILLIPS: Uh-huh.  Yeah, it was a misread as well.  Literally looks right edge and the putt broke two balls more than what I thought.
Q. Yeah.  What do you take out of this whole experience?
TRENT PHILLIPS: I mean, I've been here before.  I knew what to expect with match play.  I knew it was a grind.  You just got to look at the things you got to work on.  Obviously I missed four short putts coming in, so I got to work on short putts.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT