WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: 1ST ROUND POOL A
March 7, 2017
Hensley Meulens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Can you share with us your impression about the game yesterday?  
HENSLEY MEULENS: Well, it was a very well pitched game.  It was impressive, the pitchers that pitched on both sides.  I was expecting more hitting from the Korean side, but the Israeli guys pitched very well.  It was a good game to watch that way.   
But we also were able to scout, how to attack some of the hitters.  I know that's what we're getting ready for today.   
 Q.  I have a question.  You are going to face Chinese Taipei.  Who your starting pitcher for this game?  
HENSLEY MEULENS: We'll announce it 30 minutes after the game today.   That's the rule, right?  Sorry.   
 Q.  Woo Kyu min is the starting pitcher and he has a sidearm, and I think the Netherlands players are not familiar with him, so do you think hitters can respond to him?  
HENSLEY MEULENS: Yeah, it's a good question.  I think we watched a lot of film this morning on him, on various times in his career last year.  And you know, the guys got used to seeing his timing and what he does, what he likes to do.   
It's always a tough challenge when you are facing somebody you haven't seen before, no matter they throw sidearm or conventional.   
We have to have our A Game to be able to score some runs off him.  He's obviously a very good pitcher.  Ball moves a lot.  You know, we've got to make sure he throws strikes so we can get after him.   
 Q.  Compared to 2013 and now, how much information do you have?  
HENSLEY MEULENS: We have a lot of information.  We've played you guys again.  So we watch a lot of games.  So we don't need Sadowski's information to play you guys today.  We have two scouts in place, and that's where we are getting all of our information from.  I think we should respect that.   
 Q.  From yesterday's game, did you find any customized plan for the Korean team?  
HENSLEY MEULENS: Well, you know, it's more along the lines of what our scouts has been telling us, what they have been seeing from the batters and the pitchers.  I think it's pretty much dead on how to attack the Korean hitters, and also what to look for for their pitcher.  It wasn't that much different than what they have seen in the last few    when they have seen them playing before last night.   
So that was, you can say, assures that they were right what they were seeing in the practice games.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT