WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: 2ND ROUND POOL E
March 12, 2017
Hensley Meulens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JAPAN 8, Netherlands 6
Q. That was a very tough game going into the extra innings.  What is going through your mind?
HENSLEY MEULENS: We scored some runs early; so did they, tied the game, and it was awhile we didn't score.  We had plenty of chances in the become of the fifth, bottom of the eighth, and again, in the 11th.  But we couldn't get a big hit.
We struggled to get a big hit.  Our pitchers did an outstanding job to keep us in the game after Rick couldn't hold them; gave up five runs in three innings.  But our relievers gave us a chance to win the game.  We just didn't get the timely hit today to put them away.
Q. When you play against Team Japan, what impression do you have?
HENSLEY MEULENS: They are a solid mistakes.  They didn't make any mistakes again today.  They played defense, they catched the ball and made a couple of great plays today, as well.  They put the ball in play.  They have very good hitters and they get through time after time after time.  They keep coming, they keep putting the ball in play, and they keep getting good at-bats.
You know, we elevate the ball against them, they are going to hurt you, and that's what happened there.  And in 11 with an elevated advocated fastball, got hit hard for a base hit and two runs scored.  We did their fair share of controlling the damage, and not letting us score for awhile in the game, but they keep coming, like I said, and they came out ahead, and we couldn't capitalize when we had an opportunity to score runs.
Q. What did you learn from tonight's game?
HENSLEY MEULENS: We're still in it.  We have two more games.  Tomorrow we play Israel and then we have a day off and then we face Cuba.  We're going to put some one behind us and comeback tomorrow.  What I learned is if you don't capitalize on opportunities you're given, it's a short tournament, so you're going to pay in the end.  That's what happened in the game today.
So tomorrow we'll try to do a better job of putting the ball in play.  Struck out with guys in second and third, struck out with bases loaded, struck out with first and second no outs and putting the ball in play.  So we have to put the ball in play in order to score runs.
Q. You knew going in what the 11th inning system was, but this is the first time it's been used.  What were your impressions?
HENSLEY MEULENS: It's the first time we use it.  It's the rule.  We've got to play by it.  It's a fair chance because we get to use it, too, when it's your turn to hit.  They put a nice bunt down and then they got second and third and we have to play the infield in.  And then he got an elevated fastball and hit it to left-center there.  It is what it is.  It's the rule, and it's to try save the pitching and we just couldn't make a pitch there to keep them from scoring.
Q. The tiebreak system, one man on second and third, and you could have had a walk but you let your pitchers pitch against Nakata, what's the reason why you pitched?
HENSLEY MEULENS: Earlier in the game, we got him out.  We got him out earlier in the game.  The batter that was hitting behind him was super hot today.  He was on base almost every time.  We took our chances and it didn't work out.
Again, he left a fastball up that was easily hit, and that's the reason why we pitched him because it's later in the game, we got him out earlier and the guy behind him is hot.
Q. Team Netherlands had a couple opportunities to have a sacrifice bunt to accepted the runners, especially the bottom of the 11th, you were two runs behind but you didn't put the sacrifice bunt.  And also, there was a situation early in the game, you sent the bunt sign and the hitter got one foul ball, and then you let the hitters hit.  Do you think the player is not good at bunting or do you have enough practice for a bunt?
HENSLEY MEULENS: Well, you have to know your personnel.  This is a guy that hits in the middle of the lineup.  He's not a bunter.  He's a power hitter that we asked to bunt, and after he threw the first pitch, I knew he was going to have trouble putting the bunt down, and that's why I let him swing away.  I was hoping for him to connect and he didn't.
In the 11th hitting, Profar has been our hottest hitter, so I was thinking that he might hit an extra business hit.  The guys coming behind him are not swinging the bat very well, and Bogaerts -- at the plate, so I was not going to bunt my best hitter there to bring guys up, especially against a super right-hander that gives righties a tough time.  I was going to take my chance with Profar there in the 11th to see if he could make contact, but he didn't.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT