WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: 1ST ROUND POOL A
March 7, 2017
Hensley Meulens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Netherlands 5, Korea 0
Q. In 2013, you played with the Korean team and now you played again.  Of course, you won two games, was there any differences between the two teams?  Can you give us the overall impression and evaluation about the Korean team?
HENSLEY MEULENS: Yes, well, you know, like I said before, we had to play our A Game today to come out on top, and we did.  We pitched a very good game.  Rick gave us four solid innings, and then Diego Markwell with two, Martis with one, Stuifbergen and van Mil and to finish us off.
And you know, our hitting came alive, from the first inning, Profar gave us a cushion with the two run homer and then we scored not only in the second, and then of course the two run homer by Oduber to give us a 5 0 lead and that was pretty much holding the game thereafter that.
The Korean team is still tough.  They didn't get much hitting in today because our pitching was on.
Q. The game went really well.  Is this form good enough for the rest of the tournament?  What do you think?  What didn't go so well as you hoped?
HENSLEY MEULENS: Everything went well.  Like I said before, we pitched extremely well.  Kept them to four or five hits, and then our hitting was good enough to score five runs.  If you score five runs with the pitching we're getting, that's good enough.
Also, you've got to admire the defenders, the double plays they turned to get us out of some tough innings.  If we can play like this the rest of the way, we'll be fine.
Q. Tomorrow you'll face Chinese Taipei.  Which starting pitching will you have?
HENSLEY MEULENS: Is it a half hour? [laughter]  Jair Jurrjens will start the game tomorrow against Chinese Taipei.
Q. Especially the three plays in center field, they were making the game.  They played really well, really quick.  They haven't been together so long, just joined the group last week.  How did you get to play them together so fast?  How did that happen?
HENSLEY MEULENS: Well, it's not the first time they played together.  Everybody knows what I want.  I've been talking to these guys since August last year, first of all, to get them on board.  Everybody wanted to play once they got here.  Since they have been in their big league camps, they are all ready to go.  All we have to do is work on our plays and make sure they know the signs.  Baseball is baseball.  The guys are going to individually do what they need to do, and then at the end, it's going to turn out like a team play.
Profar is the first time playing center field for him, so he did a tremendous job.  He's a great athlete, and just talking to his manager, Jeff Banister, he was okay with that.  So we went with it, and it worked out so far.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT