SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 21, 2007
James Blake
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.    
  Q.  Is there an advantage for some of you seeded in the Top 10?  Federer is here and he comes off a loss like he did after that long streak.  Is there any type of advantage coming to this tournament?   
 JAMES BLAKE:  I don't know, we'll find out.  We haven't had that experience for a long time, in 41 matches.  We haven't seen him come off a loss, so we'll see how he reacts.  He's a great player, possibly going to be the greatest ever by the time he's done.   
 I have a feeling if you've gotten to that point and accomplished so much, you know how to bounce back and how to come off a loss.  We'll find out this week.   
 It maybe gave us a little bit of hope in the fact that he is human.  He can lose and there's a way to beat him where he can have an off day.  He hadn't had one in so long.   
 It gives us a little bit of hope, but it's definitely something where we still go into each match we play with him, or any time I step on the court with him I feel like I'm going to have to play my best tennis to win.  Sometimes I've played matches with him where I felt like I played some of my best tennis and came up short.   
 He's the one guy I feel like can do that to you still.  But having a loss, maybe he's faltering a little.  But I have a feeling he's eager to prove otherwise.   
  
  Q.  On that same topic, as the opponent, how do you keep from being in awe, I guess for lack of a better word?  But how do you make yourself feel like, I can beat that guy, even though when you look at his record against the Top 10 players, it's absurd?  How do you convince yourself that you could beat him?   
 JAMES BLAKE:  Just being a competitor you go into every match feeling like, I can win, especially when I'm confident.  Last year I was confident in how well I was playing, so I definitely went into the match thinking I could win.   
 Then once you get out there you never really want to feel in awe of someone while you're playing, so you're not thinking about that.  You're thinking about everything you can do.   
 If you make him come up with great shots and he does, you know, it's too good.  After the match you can say, That was too good and there was nothing else I could have done.  But during the match you try to find a different way to win.  You go to the other wing, make him beat you some other way, try anything to change it up and see if you can win.   
 Then after the match or when you're seeing him play someone else, sure, we're all tennis fans, too.  You can be in awe of someone that's that good.  But when you're on the court, you're just focusing on yourself, making sure you're doing what you do best and trying to make him beat you at your best.   
  
  Q.  Do you like the purple courts?   
 JAMES BLAKE:  (Laughing) only gotten a chance to hit on them once.   
  
  Q.  Does it make any difference in your vision?   
 JAMES BLAKE:  No, it never made a difference.  They changed those US Open courts to blue, and I didn't really notice much.  I did notice the blue made it better on TV, made it easier to watch.  But here, I don't know how -- I haven't seen this on TV yet, so we'll see if it makes it better for that, but for the players, for me, it doesn't make much difference at all.   
  
  Q.  How would you rate your own game right now?  What shots are working and what are not?   
 JAMES BLAKE:  I feel good.  I had a week of practice last week at Saddlebrook, and I didn't have my best week against Benneteau, but after that, I've had enough success the last year or two to be able to figure out ways to win and to still be confident in my game after a bad day.   
 I am definitely confident.  I feel like I still try to use my forehand to set up points and then to possibly eventually end points.  I'm confident in my defense, my ability to scramble and stay in points.   
 Otherwise I just feel good about my game.   
  
  Q.  How about the serve?  Do you feel like you're getting enough points off of --   
 JAMES BLAKE:  Yeah, it's getting tougher and tougher.  Guys are returning better and better, but I feel like my serve has improved quite a bit in the last few years to the point where I like to think of it as a weapon.  It's never going to an Andy Roddick serve or an Ivo Karlovic serve, but it's something that for me is more effective in setting up points for me.   
 I'm not going to get a ton of aces, but I'm going to set up points and hopefully be able to hold serve quite comfortably.   
  
  Q.  There's been some talk about making the tournaments be two out of three for the final, and here it's always been a tradition of five.  That's one of the things that makes it special, I think.  How do you feel about that as a player?   
 JAMES BLAKE:  Well, I think they did two out of three last week at Indian Wells after it had always been five.  I haven't asked the players yet, but I have a feeling they would think it's a good thing coming from Indian Wells to here, because to play three out of five, if it's a five-setter, it ends up wearing on your body quite a bit, and then to come here and play a whole other six straight matches, especially in the heat here.   
 But for this final, you know, the rest of us are going to Davis Cup, it could be tough on our bodies to play a five-setter before.   
 I think the general consensus is going to be to shorten it a little bit more because we are playing so many matches, and I think the Tour and the powers that be on the Tour are realizing how much stress we're putting on our bodies these days.   
 So to shorten it these days, hopefully the fans still get what they're looking for in a two-out-of-three set match.  You're still getting some great shot making and some good drama in a two-out-of-three set match.   
 I would also like to have more experience in being in those finals so I could give you a better firsthand judgment of it, but that's just my experience from the outside looking in.   
  
  Q.  Do you think it would affect the fan experience?  A lot of fans love five-setters.   
 JAMES BLAKE:  I don't know.  I actually talked to a few friends the other day that weren't as much in the tennis world, and they said something about sometimes going three-out-of-five set matches and feeling like they could be too long if they're not as interested in a match or if it's not as exciting tennis.  To be there for four hours could be too much for them sometimes.   
 I don't know, we'd have to find out from the fans, and I've always been a proponent of, what the fans like we need to do, because we're athletes but we're also in the business world of entertainers because that's how we're getting paid is the fans coming to see us and the sponsors paying us dollars when the fans come see us.   
 If the fans do like three out of five better, then we can suck it up for one match and play it for the finals.  Those guys that are in the finals are probably pretty happy to be there so they'll play four out of seven if we need them to.  I'm not suggesting it, but I'm just saying that the fans are what kind of dictates our sport hopefully, and we need to realize that and we need to be aware that the fans are what's putting the money in our pockets.   
  
  Q.  After everything that happened in 2005 with your neck and shingles and all that, how did you find it in yourself to get back on the court and have such great success that you had in 2006 and still growing?   
 JAMES BLAKE:  Well, I just realized how much I missed it when I was sick, and it gave me a little different perspective.  I honestly think it made me a better player, and a hope a better person, too, because I just matured and grew.   
 I started putting a little less pressure on myself.  I love playing.  I'm a competitor.  I want to win every time.  I'm upset every time I step off the court and I lost, but I now know that it's not the end of the world.   
 I had great families and friends around me at that time, and they made me realize if I never win a tennis match again I still have family and friends around me.  That makes a big difference when I'm out there on the court.   
 Before that I was still young and dumb and, I don't know, probably arrogant and thinking that the world revolved around tennis and that this was the most important thing in the world, and now I'm more aware of that and I'm sure I've got a lot more learning to do.   
 I'm probably still young and dumb, according to most people.  But I just became a little more calm out there and it's gotten me better.  I had some time off where a got a chance to work on some of my weaknesses, and now I feel pretty confident going forward.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Thanks, James.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT