MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 11, 2007
James Blake
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Nice to get a quick one out of the way in the heat today?   
 JAMES BLAKE:  Yeah, it was great.  Under an hour, it's incredible.  He's a tough player, especially today.  He's a great talent, and I know he's got a big future.   
 So it was interesting because I had to feel him out a little at the beginning, didn't know what to expect.  I just felt great.  He was hitting some big shots and I was able to fend him off.  Then when I had the offensive I took advantage.   
  
  Q.  Playing well both sides, confidence is high.  Have you ever felt this good leading into a Slam before?   
 JAMES BLAKE:  It's tough to say because I definitely feel like I'm a better player than I was last year.  Last year I felt pretty good after I won here.  I felt pretty good a couple years ago when I won New Haven going into the Open.  It's tough to say whether or not I've ever felt better.  Next two matches might decide that.   
 I feel great on the court.  I'm getting used to the heat.  I haven't had a long match yet to push me, but I'm not complaining about that.  These short ones are just great for me.   
  
  Q.  As the defending champion I was just interested to know what your thoughts were on Davydenko's comments yesterday that this tournament is so small that no one cares about it, and that's the reason that a lot of players just pull out.   
 JAMES BLAKE:  I think that's silly.  I mean, I play tournaments to go in thinking that I can win them, and that's the reason I'm playing here.  I hope I get a chance to hold up that trophy again.  I'm extremely proud that that I won it last year, so I don't think anyone looks at it as a secondary title or whatever that I won.  It was for me a big event and a great kick-start to the year.  It seems crazy for him to say that he doesn't care about it since he plays about 40 weeks a year.  Maybe that's the reason people get injured, if they play too much like that.   
 If I were to blame anything on all the injuries on, it might be the fact that we do have such a quick off-season, but it's not having to do with people disregarding Sydney.  I mean, look at the draw every year and look at the past champions.  With the exception of me there have been some great players, Lleyton Hewitt, Todd Martin has won it, Roger Federer has won it.  It's not like Challenger level players that are winning here; it's great players that play this tournament and great players that win here.   
  
  Q.  Scheduling aside, before any Grand Slam, particularly maybe the Australian because it's in the heat, should Sydney be a week back, or do players like to play in the week straight before a Grand Slam?   
 JAMES BLAKE:  I think that's a very individual decision.  Tennis is such an individual sport that it's up to the players, and part of the reason it's great is you can pick your own schedule.  I know in terms of my friends, like Andy Roddick, he likes to have -- he plays the Kooyong, and it's exhibition and a little less rigorous maybe but still gets used to the heat, but I like playing competitive matches especially coming into the Australian because I haven't played a match since Shanghai, so to hopefully play a match that's competitive, hopefully five matches here, for me that's the best preparation for Melbourne.   
 Maybe I'll regret this when I'm older, I won't be able to do this when I'm older, but playing five matches isn't going to make me tired for Melbourne.  I have good enough physical fitness, good enough training that I won't get tired in Melbourne or anything.  I think this is the best preparation.  There's nothing better than winning matches for my confidence and my level of tennis going into the Australian.   
 For me I think it's great to have this tournament.  I always play this one, I always play New Haven right before the US Open, and if people don't -- if Davydenko says it's not a big deal, then he shouldn't play here.  But I think the guys that are playing here take it very seriously.  I take it very seriously.  I might be a little offended if some of the guys I'm beating are saying they don't care and that's the reason I'm winning.  I definitely take it very seriously.   
  
  Q.  You don't think maybe playing Doha and Chennai, if you got a little niggle there you wouldn't take a week off before?   
 JAMES BLAKE:  No, I wouldn't do that.  I don't play my schedule that way.  If I say I'm going to play something, I'm going to try to play something.  Obviously our sport is a somewhat rigorous sport so there are going to be injuries, and you can't play everything unfortunately.  I don't plan on saying, oh, if I do well in one I'm not going to play the next one.  If I make a commitment, I want to be there and I want to do my best.  So I don't plan that way.   
 Most years I do play a tournament the first week.  I played Hopman Cup a few times, Adelaide last year, but since I ended the year so late in Shanghai, had a little niggle there with my knee, had a little tendonitis so I needed to rest to get that better, so I wanted to have a little bit of extra time at home.  But I still wanted to be here, and I'm happy I'm here, I'm doing so well, so I'm very happy.  I'm healthy, I'm playing great here.   
  
  Q.  It's not cheap for all these moms and dads to bring the kids out for a day at the tennis.  As someone on the ATP Council, does it irk you when you hear comments from millionaire tennis players talking about tournaments in that way?   
 JAMES BLAKE:  It is a bit disconcerting to hear someone talk about a tournament and not show the respect it deserves, especially when they're playing here.  You would think you would want to have those people that are paying the money, you'd want to show them the respect because they're the ones that are making you a millionaire.  They're the ones that are paying the tickets so we can get sponsorships, so we can get it on TV so we can be millionaires.  I'm very fortunate to have fans.   
 I don't know how many of those people that paid for tickets are here to watch Davydenko, but there's some, and in my mind he should be thankful for that, and I am very thankful for that.  It is always a bit of a pity to hear athletes complaining about a lot of things.  I know that's why no one wants to hear us complaining about a long schedule, but I just think in the long run that's going to be better for the Tour.   
 But it happens all the time in America with basketball players, football players, baseball players, complaining about little things, when I know better because when I complain, my friends back home, they're there to kick my butt and say, "Are you kidding me; you're playing in 90-degree weather, you're in a tee shirt and shorts, and that's your job?"  I'm not allowed to complain.   
  
  Q.  That's your opinion, but is there talking amongst other professionals about doing something about this?   
 JAMES BLAKE:  Doing something about what?   
  
  Q.  Trying to get value for the fans, as well?   
 JAMES BLAKE:  Well, for me it's just go out there and put the best product we have out there, and that's why I train.  That's what I'm doing in the off-season is working hard so I can be the best player I can be and give the fans what they deserve, and that's my best effort.   
 I hope the rest of the guys do the same.  I feel like 99 percent of the guys do that.   
 And then the other times you never know what could be going on in other people's lives.  If your girlfriend just broke up with you five minutes before you go into the match, you're probably not going to be in the best mental frame of mind.  So I never know.  In terms of in general, guys are giving their best effort.  That's what we do for the fans.   
 Then there's the other little things, the things that the Stars programme is for where we're going off doing autograph sessions, visiting hospitals, doing charity events, and I think that's important, and to be honest, I've always felt those were more important.  Everything I do this year, last year, on the tennis court, in the ATP Tour matches, is to give me a better voice or a bigger voice in the off-season where I get a chance to do charity events and help out kids and help out people less fortunate.   
 I'm proud that I do that and that a lot of guys -- I know there are a lot of guys.  Every time I've asked people to be a part of my charity event or be in our charity events, guys are so quick to say yes and help out others.  In terms of my group of friends on Tour, I don't see there being anything wrong with the situation.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT