WESTERN AND SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 14, 2003
James Blake
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Could you have played much better in that first set today?

JAMES BLAKE:  Could have played better in the tiebreaker and breakpoints, I think.  It's kind of frustrating because I really felt like I did play well.  I had those breakpoints.  I didn't go for maybe what I felt like I should have.  I played a little tentative, waiting for him to miss.  You can't do that against a player that good.  Tiebreaker, I got a little tentative.  He's been in these situations more than me, and he played better.  Then I really tried to get my focus back pretty quickly in that second set, and, you know, he managed to step his game up a little.  Was a call or two there that was pretty questionable.  But, you know, he played a little better.  He stepped his game up.  I had another breakpoint, and he came up with a huge serve.  It's a great weapon to have.  Any time he gets in trouble, he seems to come up with big serves.  That's why he's whatever he is  - 4 in the world.

Q.  How much has he improved?  You've had experience with him, obviously.

JAMES BLAKE:  Lots.  Because I feel like I've improved a lot, and he's going at a quicker pace even I think.  Because his serve is, you know, just huge.  But tonight  -- I haven't played him in probably a year.  Tonight, it's different 'cause it's not just one speed.  It's not 140 every time.  It's 120 and more effective than that 140 serve because he's changing it up a lot more.  He'll sneak into net on it once in a while.  With that getting even better, I don't really see anyone in the world's better than his.  He's controlled his emotions a little better.  I think he's just playing  -- I mean, he's only 20 years old.  I think he's gonna get even better, which is a little scary.  And he's gonna make us all get back out on to the practice court even more so we can just compete with him.

Q.  At this point would you say he's the player to beat at the Open?

JAMES BLAKE:  Yeah, I think he's the best player  -- he's playing the best tennis on the hard courts right now.  You never know with Andre taking two weeks off, being fully ready; he can play better than anyone in the world at times.  But the way it's played out on the courts here, Andy's playing better than anyone right now, I think.

Q.  How about you, where are you at right now?  You haven't necessarily had the best results this summer.

JAMES BLAKE:  Yeah, I think it's been a little bad luck.  I think critics or media people or other coaches are going to worry a little bit more about me than I am.  I've played good tennis, but it's just sometimes come at the wrong times.  I played really well in DC, happened to come up against Andre when he's playing his best.  Played great tennis here, happened to come up against one of the three seeds left in the draw, and possibly the best player in the world right now, and lost.  My ranking might drop a little bit, but I feel good going into the Open.  I don't feel there's that many guys I'm going to be nervous or scared to play in the Open.  Now I don't think I'll be seeded.  There's a possibility for some pretty tough draws, but I'm not that worried about it. 

Q.  When you've got the kind of record that you had against Andy going into the match, is it hard to keep your belief? 

JAMES BLAKE:  Yeah, I just got to try to have a pretty short-term memory.  I haven't played him in about a year, so ...  Oh, wait, I guess I played him indoors last year, so I have played him sooner.  I just try to forget about those.  Each one is their own separate incident.  I had my chances against him in Memphis.  Couple of them are in challengers.  That was, I mean, that was a lifetime ago for both of us, so...  And then last year when I played him indoors, he told me after the match it was one of the two best serving days of his life.  If he's having one of the two best serving days of his life, no one's beating him.  Can't really fault myself for that.  He's played well against me.  Can't go home and cry about it; it happens.

Q.  Down 30-40 first game of the second set, how critical was that point to this match?

JAMES BLAKE:  Pretty critical.  And afterwards, I was asking the guys up in ESPN about the Shot Spot.  They said that one was way in, which is pretty tough to swallow when a guy  -- when a chair umpire is only supposed to overrule when they're 100 percent sure, and you find out a ball's way in and they overruled on it 50 feet away from them.  That's a tough pill to swallow. But those are the breaks.  Bad luck.  You know, I think maybe, you know, maybe since we got the technology, we should implement it.  Put Shot Spot on the little monitor in the chair.  It takes just as long as checking a mark on clay.  It's totally accurate.  I mean, we have the technology, why not use it?  We have the technology for those let cord machines.  Why not use it for Shot Spot at such an important time?  I mean, it's breakpoint.  A match could swing on that.  Obviously, humans are fallible.  Shot Spot's supposed to be accurate.  Why not use it? 

Q.  He changed things up by getting Brad as a coach.  He says that Brad doesn't necessarily tell him something different, but he's hearing a different voice.  Do you ever think of maybe changing your situation at all? 

JAMES BLAKE:  Nope.  My coach is the best person for the job right now.  He knows my game better than anyone in the world.  He knows me better than anyone.  I've grown up with him.  I've heard people talk about this, you know, tell me  -- put thoughts like that in my mind, and they go out as quick as they come in.  He's a best friend, he's a mentor, he's a great coach, and the great thing is, I mean, he doesn't try to take any credit.  He doesn't worry about anything.  He keeps me calm.  He's gotten me to where I am, and, you know, he doesn't take any credit for that.  I think he's one of the greatest guys in the world, and I'm lucky to have him as a coach.  And I would never think  -- I mean, right now, if things ever do get stale, then, yeah, I'll think about it.  It's not gonna be one of those situations like a lot of these guys who go through seven coaches in two years or something.  I'd talk to him.  We'd really talk about it and see what's the best thing for me.  I trust his opinion on just about everything in my life.  So I wouldn't change my coach for the world. 

Q.  Does it annoy you when people suggest that you do?

JAMES BLAKE:  A little bit, because they don't know the whole situation.  They don't know that  -- it seems like people don't want to put the blame on the player.  I went through a rough summer.  They're saying maybe I should change my coach.  Maybe I should stop acting like a teenager.  Maybe I should work on my forehand a little bit more.  Maybe I should get out and run a few more sprints.  Put the blame on me, I'm the one that's out there.  For sure when I'm winning, no one's saying, "His coach did a great job."  Then it's "James played well."  Let's make it fair and go both ways.  I take full responsibility for the way I played this summer, and it had nothing to do with my coach.  He's been doing a great job.  I wouldn't think about changing him, you know.  Andy's had some great success.  I don't know if Brad's the reason for it.  I don't think Brad taught him how to serve 140 or hit a forehand Mach 3.  Brad's sitting up there and can do just the same as any other fan in the stands once the match starts. So, you know, most of my credit goes to Andy for what he's been doing.  He's matured.  And, you know, you take a 20-year-old that's Top 10 in the world, and I think he's only gonna get better.  And Brad came in at the right time.  He's obviously done a great job.  But maybe it's just 'cause I'm the player, I'm a little bias, but Andy's the one doing the hard work, putting in the time on the courts, going to bed early, making the sacrifices.  He's done a great job.

Q.  Is it fair to say you think sometimes coaches are overrated?

JAMES BLAKE:  I think at times they can be, but I think my coach has done a great job not  -- he really shouldn't  -- he can't be overrated because of what he's done.  He's turned me into the person I am.  I was 11 years old when I started working with him.  For me, he matured me from an absolute brat who a lot of people suggested I quit tennis for good because I was that competitive, to being someone who can come in here and talk rationally with you guys after a tough loss 10 minutes later.  So he, in my mind, is underrated.  But the coaches that have taken over once kids are pro, once a kid's already done the hard work, grown up, started to play on tour, you know, they help out a lot, but it's just kind of little things and the hard work has already been done.  So, you know, I've even talked to my coach about, you know, by the time I hit 26, 27 years old and I'm on tour, you know, if Brian is still traveling with me, I think it's gonna be more as just a friend than as a coach.  I think by then I'll have learned enough about the game and have gotten down to, you know, seeing just about every situation possible.  And, you know, if I can't figure it out on my own, I'm in big trouble because you got to do it all on your own when you're out on the court, so... I think the coaches that come along later in the process are sometimes overrated, because it could just be that, you know, like he said, he's hearing a different voice or seeing a different face in the crowd when he looks up.  Just having a little change like that can inspire you somehow.  But I don't put that much stock in the amount that people are hyping up some of these, you know, "super coaches" that are out there; that are, you know, that should make such a huge difference in your game.  I don't think, you know, they can take anyone and turn them into a Top 10 player.  They can take a great talent and put them there.  I think Brad worked with a girl by the name of Tatiana Golovin for about six months.  No one heard about that, because she can't serve 140.  So I think sometimes they're a little overrated. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT