WIMBLEDON
June 26, 2002
James Blake
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  You really left your heart on the court today.  Do you want to talk about the match?
 
JAMES BLAKE:  Let's see, these aren't quite as much fun to talk about.  But I played my heart out, you're right.  It's amazing what Richard has been able to do.  I mean, I don't think there are many people in the world that can take a year and a half off off of their sport and come back and play at such a high level, especially in a major, five-set, be fit for the whole time, serving I think better than he had been the whole match in the fifth set, and hitting aces, seeing him come up with, you know, hitting lines on big points.  You know, I was always under the impression that took a lot of match experience and a lot of preparation to do that.  He just showed, you know, how much he's been training and how hard he's wanted to get back.  My hat's off to him.  I felt like I played a good match.  I felt like I had some chances in those first two sets, just didn't go my way.  I thought maybe my time would come.  And I got lucky a couple times maybe in the third and fourth, was really playing well.  Then had more chances in the fifth.  These kind of matches in the Grand Slams seem to come down to a point here and there.  And it did again.  And he just came up with the goods today.  It's really getting tough to lose these because I feel like every Grand Slam, it seems like for me I've had some tough matches where I felt like I could have gone through and maybe done some damage in the draw.  But, you know, these guys are not easy.  I really hope it's going to help me in the long run to appreciate a little more.  When I started out on tour, in general I really struggled, couldn't even get out of the first or second round of challengers.  So then when I finally did, now I feel like I'm part of the real ATP Tour; I appreciate it a lot more.  I feel like it didn't come easy to me.  I really hope this is just another one of those stepping stones I get over, and I really appreciate the next time I get an opportunity like this and it goes my way.  You never know what can happen in the rest of the tournament.  Wow, that was a long answer (smiling). 
 
Q.  The next to last point was typical of the way you played today.  Do you want to talk about that?
 
JAMES BLAKE:  Sure.  That was one where I felt like I just got lucky to be in the point because he hit a great shot.  I think he played a great return.  When he had that overhead, I just took a guess.  I thought, you know, the point was over.  It just came right to me.  I actually almost overran it.  I miss-hit it.  I hit right off the throat of my racquet.  It happened to be going towards the court.  To be honest, I was actually hoping he would let it go.  It looked like it was floating all over the place.  When I saw the line it was on, it looked like it was going in.  I was praying he would let it go and think it was floating out.  I would get a freebie.  I had to take a chance, take a guess, see what would happen.  Like I said, he just came up too strong at the end there.  
 
Q.  How strong is he, do you think?
 
JAMES BLAKE:  You know, I don't really know.  I feel like I played pretty well out there today.  You know, I don't know how well he felt like he played because I haven't seen him out on tour for the last two years.  I've only really been on tour for about a year, so I don't know.  Obviously, I mean, he's had a lot of success here, so he can fall back on that confidence.  But, like I said, it is amazingly tough to come back after a year and a half of not playing your sport.  I come back after taking a month off, and you get blisters on your feet, blisters on your hands, just things start to ache that you're not used to.  He managed to do it unbelievably.  I don't know how he's going to feel tomorrow, how he's going to do.  If he keeps that up, I hope for my sake that he can keep going far, because I played well and he beat me.  If he keeps playing that way, I'd like to think that he can do really well.  I don't know exactly what to say to that one because I don't know how he's feeling.  But today he played great.  He played just too good on the big points, and that's what counts in these tournaments. 
 
Q.  Does he feel like an opponent who can go far in the tournament?
 
JAMES BLAKE:  Like I said, I really hope so.  I mean, I'm trying to give myself credit there.  I don't feel like I played badly today.  So for my own ego, I'd like to think that someone beating me when I'm playing well can do well.  But you never know.  Maybe I'm not as comfortable on grass as some of the other guys.  But I feel like he beat me while I was playing well.  So I'd like to think he can do really well.  Now I see he's got Paradorn in the next round.  I think that might be a little bit different than if he was playing Andre.  He probably doesn't know much about Paradorn.  He'll go out there probably swinging away again.  If his body holds up, I think he's got a good chance.  
 
Q.  I know you're disappointed now, but how has it been to be in the singles for the first time here in Wimbledon?
 
JAMES BLAKE:  It's been fantastic.  Just a lot of fun to be a part of this tournament and to totally legitimize that I'm a part of this tour now.  It feels good to do that and to come in and get a win.  Like I said, I really hope this match here is a stepping stone to really appreciating a few more wins later in my career where I can fall back on having this experience where I lost a heart-breaker and I know how it feels  - and I don't really want to feel it again.  Maybe it will make me, you know, that 1% tougher in the next match.  I don't know.  I hope that's what happens from this.  
 
Q.  What are some of the things you've learned this year being on the tour about your game?
 
JAMES BLAKE:  I learned that just playing my game is what I need to do, not trying to overdo anything, not trying to overhit, or not being too tentative.  Just finding the right rhythm, what works best for me.  Just going for my forehand, taking advantage of my chances, not getting crazy, not trying to play above myself.  If I play my game, I feel like I can compete with just about anyone.  I had a tough one with a great player today.  I've had some really good matches with top players.  I feel like hopefully I'm just keeping  -- I just keep getting better and better and those matches also go my way soon.  But it's just a matter of playing my game.  Everything seems to be getting better and better.  That's what the coaches are saying.  Maybe that's their job, is to pat me on the back.  I definitely feel like my returns are getting a lot stronger.  My backhand, which was definitely a weakness a year ago, is to the point where guys can't pick on it.  I felt like I passed really well off it today.  So my game just feels like it's getting better.  I really hope there's nothing that guys can just pick on. 
 
Q.  What do you think about the atmosphere here?
 
JAMES BLAKE:  Atmosphere is great.  I remember from last year when I was here just playing doubles, watching matches like this one I was just a part of.  It really gets exciting.  When it's the end of the day, there aren't many singles matches on, the crowd is supporting every time you stand up from the chair.  You have people watching from up in the eating area, kind of leaning over.  It's just a lot of fun.  Also the fact that it's a little different atmosphere from the US Open where they might be a little more rowdy, they might have had a couple more pints.  It's just a little different, but a lot of fun.  It seems like they get some great matches like this every year.  It's an honor to be a part of one.  Unfortunately, I came out on the wrong side of it.  But this is one of those things that hopefully when I'm done with my career, I can tell those youngsters, "Back when I was playing, I was in an 11-9 in the fifth," one of those kind of things.  Maybe by then I'll have switched it around, that I actually won (smiling). 
 
Q.  You were talking to yourself on some of his aces.  Were you exhorting yourself to have gone for them?
 
JAMES BLAKE:  No, just kind of venting, just saying, "That's amazing," just hoping one of those times he would panic and miss the line that he happened to hit every time it was Love-30 or breakpoint.  It's just frustrating.  You really can't do anything about those.  All you can do is take advantage of the chances you have.  If I was mad about anything, it might have been the point before that that I didn't take advantage of a chance, saying, "That's what happens, that's what he's capable of doing."  But, you know, I can't really get mad when he's acing me, hitting 130 at the T.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT