TENNIS MASTERS SERIES - ROMA
May 9, 2002
James Blake
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  So how did you manage to come back from a set down tonight?

JAMES BLAKE:  Well, I'm starting to get used to it, I guess  - this is my third one in a row.  I just had a slow start.  And he was playing really well, serving great in the first set.  I never got a chance to break him.  And then after that first set I really wanted to just try to play my game instead of adjusting to his game.  And I started going for my shots a lot more and putting pressure on him.  If he could come up with the shots, then I just say, "Too good."  Nothing I could do.  But, luckily, my shots were good enough to win that second set.  Then got a little more confidence and felt really good in that third set.  Felt like I could try and control the points. 

Q.  Since your first match here, how do you feel on the clay now?

JAMES BLAKE:  I'm feeling better every match, getting more and more comfortable.  And today, playing against just a definite clay courter, I knew it was going to be a tough match.  I've had three really tough matches.  So I think the only thing it can do is make me better. 

Q.  How are three Americans still alive in Rome?

JAMES BLAKE:  We're trying to show the French that we can play on this stuff since we're coming up to playing them in Davis Cup.  Want to put a little pressure on them (smiling).  We're just  -- actually, I have no idea how we're still in it.  We're not known for playing good on clay, but I guess we're learning and we're having some fun over here.  And hopefully we can all continue the success this week and into the French Open. 

Q.  Just take us through that set point in the second set.  It was a little bit special. 

JAMES BLAKE:  Yeah, I thought I had it.  He hit a dropshot to get me in, I think, then threw up the lob.  I saw him coming in as I looked over, I figured that was the perfect time to get a lob over him.  I actually like hitting that shot  - it's fun.  And a lot of times guys close way too tight on that, once they see the ball go over your head.  I had him  - thought I had him.  Then I just barely missed it.  I thought I hit it perfect .  Guess not.  Oh, well.  Next time I'll make it hopefully...

Q.  Have you guys been practicing together at all, Roddick and Agassi?

JAMES BLAKE:  Yeah.  I've actually hit with both of them this week.  Andre has helped me a lot of times with scouting reports, as has Andy.  You know, I would try to help them, but they've both got a little more experience than me.  And we've been having a good time.  And I hit with Andy right off the plane.  We actually were on the same flight over here.  Right away, we were hitting together.  And warming up with Andre a couple times, he's been very helpful.  And hopefully we're doing this together, and hopefully we'll continue. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT