PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 12, 2002
James Blake
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions.


Q.  Differences between the first set and the rest of the match?

JAMES BLAKE:  First set I was pretty patient, played a good set, for this court being so slow.  Feel like I kind of controlled the points on my forehands.  Instead of hitting winners, I was trying to move him a lot and hit heavy.  Second set I got too relaxed or too patient, started going for too much too soon.  He served well, gets a lot of confidence from his serve.  He obviously improved to put more pressure on me.  I didn't respond with my same game plan.  I changed and tried to do too much.  The guys out here are too good to do that against.  You've got to stick to what your best game is. 

Q.  Do you think it's one of those situations when you relax, it's hard to get it back?

JAMES BLAKE:  Yeah.  Just couldn't quite get it back.  I felt like I had chances.  Even when I was down 5-2, I still had that breakpoint chance.  He came up with a really big serve.  Definitely I struggled to get it back.  It's not only me out there.  There's someone else making me do that.  Jan-Michael served well, played well, to make me struggle to get it back.

Q.  How do you think you played compare to your last match in Memphis?

JAMES BLAKE:  I think I played  -- I mean, he played a little better, I played a little worse.  That's what happens.  It's just a few points.  The match in Memphis was pretty close.  He had a set point in the second set.  Definitely could have gone either way.  I am a little more comfortable indoors seeing that I grew up indoors.  It's probably going to take me longer to have as much success with these guys who all grew up outdoors than it will for me indoors.  I think just having that comfort zone indoors where I felt like I can continue to play my game and not rush anything, not go for too much, makes a little bit of a difference here, and 5% of a difference means the difference out here between a win and a loss. 

Q.  Are you playing doubles with Mardy here?

JAMES BLAKE:  Yes.

Q.  Florida, too, or just here?

JAMES BLAKE:  I think just here.  Florida, it's been kind of a long trip for me.  If I don't do well in singles, I'd like to take a break.  If I do well in singles, I'll be pretty happy, as well.

Q.  Sort of getting worn down as far as the schedule?

JAMES BLAKE:  Not really.  I just kind of miss home every once in a while.  I want to go back, if I get that chance.  Hopefully after Miami, I'll also have the opportunity to be with the Davis Cup team that next week.  So it's a long trip.  Since I've only been out here a couple years, I'm probably not as hardened of a veteran as a lot of these guys who can go a month or two, three months at a time on the road.  I'm still on that learning process. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT