U.S. OPEN
September 5, 2009
James Blake
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







T. ROBREDO/J. Blake
  7-6, 6-4, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Could you talk about what happened with your foot. 
 JAMES BLAKE: Yeah, I think it's basically a sprained ankle. I don't know how to describe it. Something about a posterior ligament or something. I talked to my trainer in there and my physio. 
 They both agree, it's one of the ligaments down there that's somehow strained or something. I don't know. I could have done it on a serve, because I don't feel like I did anything specific. They say I could have done it going for a little more on a serve or something like that. It just kept getting worse and worse. 
 But that's not any reason for why I lost. Tommy played well. I didn't serve very well. He did serve well. That was the real difference, not my ankle.

 Q. This wasn't related to the ankle injury you had earlier in the year?
 JAMES BLAKE: No. Same ankle, but it's -- I don't think it has anything to do with that. 

 Q. Do you feel like you're a little snake-bitten this year?
 JAMES BLAKE: Yeah, a little bit. But that's part of sports, unfortunately. I'll rest this for I don't know how long. We'll see what my trainer says. But rest it and get back. This is one of my first matches in a while where I actually felt like I was playing my brand of tennis. 
 Like I said, I didn't serve well. From the ground, I felt like I was hitting the ball all right and through streaks feeling like, I don't want to say my old self but myself when I'm really confident. There were stretches where I had hiccups, played a couple bad points in a row. 
 Other than that, from the ground, I felt like this was back to being better tennis. That's going to bode well for the fall indoor season. 

 Q. Definitely felt like it was getting worse as the match went on?
 JAMES BLAKE: Yeah, it just kept feeling more and more painful. The tape helped for a little while, sort of stopgap. By the end of the match, it was back to the way it was before. It was hurting. 
 Like I said, that's not an excuse. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT