INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA (MEN)
April 27, 2009
James Blake
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. CRIVOI/J. Blake
  7-5, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. What happened? Really slow start out there?
 JAMES BLAKE: Yeah, slow start. Didn't really every get anything going. I won a few games in a row because he didn't play his best. He might have gotten a little nervous trying to close out the first set, and I didn't put any pressure on him. I wasn't attacking, and when I tried to attack I was missing. Just a really bad day. 

 Q. Is it because of the condition, because of the wind, or because of the...
 JAMES BLAKE: I don't want to make excuses. It was the same for him as me. He did a better job of handling the conditions. I should have put more balls on the court. I could have done a better job taking my time in those conditions. 
 It was tough, but it was tough for both of us. It makes when you're playing bad even less fun when you're out there and the conditions are like that. You got clay in your eyes and you can't control the ball because of the wind. And when it starts to drizzle, makes it not so much fun.
 Same for him. 

 Q. Tougher time on the clay this season. Lost in Houston, as well. 
 JAMES BLAKE: Yeah, so far it hasn't been good. Hasn't been my best tennis lately. I'd love to snap my fingers and magically turn it around and be playing better, but I don't have those powers. I don't know what's going to happen. I don't know how I'm going turn it around.
 I've played worse before and turned it around and had some good results. Hopefully this time it'll be the same. I'll have some bad times and I'll -- there will be plenty of ups too hopefully still after my career. 

 Q. What would you say about the state of the American chances coming into the clay season with you not doing so well and Roddick taking some time off here? 
 JAMES BLAKE: Depends what you think of as the clay season. Most people, especially in the America, think of the clay season as the French Open. I think our chances there will be fine. 
 When Andy will be back, he'll be fresh after taking a couple weeks off for vacation. The way he's been playing this year with his attitude, his fitness, his game, he's got a good chance of playing well there at the French Open. Myself and Mardy and Sam Querrey, hopefully we have good chances, too. 
 If I don't start playing better than I did today, I'll be out there early. I need to make some adjustments in the next three weeks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT