XXIX OLYMPIC GAMES
August 10, 2008
James Blake
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  J. BLAKE/C. Guccione  
6-3, 7-6  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for James Blake.   
  
  Q. Are there more nerves out there than normal, bearing in mind you missed the last Olympics? How did you feel out there?   
 JAMES BLAKE: Definitely more nerves than a normal match. I tend to not really get nervous when I'm out on a tennis court, but today was a little different. This is even different than a Davis Cup. Davis Cup is thrilling, exciting, definitely a little different nerves.   
 But out here was crazy. And also with the surroundings of not knowing when I was going to play, sitting around watching other sports this morning, 'cause I didn't know the weather.   
 But it was very exciting. Just sitting there watching this morning, watching Michael Phelps set a world record, it was something that was special to me 'cause it made me realize how many people are inspired by him, and that I'm now in the position to have that opportunity, to go out there and get a medal for my country. Today was hopefully the first step towards that.   
  
  Q. This being your Olympic debut, can you describe, was there a difference playing an Olympic tennis match compared to a slam or a Davis Cup match that you've experienced?   
 JAMES BLAKE: Yeah, there's definitely a difference. For one, you look up and you see the Olympic captains and coaches instead of your normal surroundings. And those guys did a great job of getting me ready here. I think they'll continue to do a great job. Hopefully I'll be here all week.   
 It's definitely different. Just the whole preparation, being in the village. Just, like I said, the inspiration I've gotten from meeting so many other athletes, being around so many great athletes from other sports. It's definitely different because you want to do something special. Instead of just proving yourself for your own sake, you want to prove yourself as a member of a team, as a member of the Olympic team, that you deserve to be here, and you deserve to be among all these other great athletes, because there are some out here that I'm so impressed by.   
 And I just want to hold my own and hopefully be a great part of the Olympic American tradition and hopefully bring home a medal.   
  
  Q. There's been a lot of talk about the weather conditions here. As your first match, what is your feeling?   
 JAMES BLAKE: It's about as humid as I've ever played in, and I live in Florida (smiling).   
 It's pretty sticky. You know, you notice it right away. You got to keep your wristbands on. You've got to keep going to the towel, and it's still going to be tough.   
 But, uhm, same for everyone. I noticed when I was changing sides after each time, there was plenty of sweat droplets on the court from Chris, as well. It's going to be the same. It's going to be tough for everyone.   
 I'm happy I've done a lot of hard work to get me in great shape and feel good physically. But it's going to be a grind. By the end of the week, whoever is left standing is going to have to be someone that's in great shape physically.   
  
  Q. Chris said he wanted to get into your backhand to see how you would handle it. He said it obviously backfired on him. Could you talk about how you felt about your backhand today.   
 JAMES BLAKE: Well, I think with the way he serves, he can -- if he hits his spot anywhere, it's going to be very effective. He definitely was serving a lot more second serves to my backhand. At times it was effective, but when it came down to crunch time, in the breaker, I hit two pretty big backhand passing shots I think, and put every return I got a look at back.   
 So I think my backhand is faring pretty well. It's something I've always worked on. It's something that was a weakness when I got on tour. I think guys are still going to go there. But I think I've been able to exceed most of their expectations when they try to use that as a ploy.   
 So it's been my most improved shot and it continues improving and I feel like it's what's gotten me to where I am now.   
  
  Q. Beyond the humidity, how aware were you of the air quality and do you think it's going to be a factor? Also, what about the court conditions, speed of the court, how do you think that's going to play out in this tournament?   
 JAMES BLAKE: I didn't really think much about the air. I was concerned with the humidity and also if it was going to rain again. That was the only thoughts that were going through my head really. And so I don't think that will be a factor throughout the week.   
 But the court conditions seem great. No bad bounces out there.   
  
  Q. Slow? Fast? Medium?   
 JAMES BLAKE: I'm about the worst person in the draw to ask about that 'cause people keep saying so many different things, and I never have any idea. I play the same game on slow or fast, so it's not gonna change for me (smiling).   
 But in my opinion, it seems a little slower than, say, the US Open. But, you know, if someone else comes in here and says they're faster, believe them, because I'm terrible. Most of the guys on tour know by now not to ask me about the conditions. So I don't know (laughter).   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT