INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA (MEN)
May 9, 2008
James Blake
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  S. WAWRINKA/J. Blake  
6-7, 7-6, 6-1  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. What are your thoughts after?  
 JAMES BLAKE: It was a tough match. Definitely could have taken advantages in the second set I think. The third set just got away from me. He started playing really well and I started making a couple mistakes.   
 It can get away in a hurry on clay I feel like because guys have so much more time you end up having to hit -- do so much more. If you're a little frustrated going for winners it's not going to be the answer. You really have to be patient out there, and I didn't show enough patience in the third set.  
  
  Q. So the frustration was building?  
 JAMES BLAKE: Yeah. You know, I missed a really easy volley to get broken the first time, and that was a little frustrating to me because I had an open court and all I had to do was kind of stick it there and didn't do that. That frustrated me a little.  
 And then he kept the pressure on playing well, but felt like too many times I was going for too much and didn't really need to do that and forcing the issue. That's not what got me into two tiebreakers in the first two sets and gave me opportunities to win those sets.   
 Getting away from that is not something I can't let happen again.  
  
  Q. Are there any holes in his game?  
 JAMES BLAKE: No. His serve is solid. Returns pretty well. Moves well. Both sides can be rock solid at the times. The forehand maybe can go off maybe a little at times, but, yeah, he's a very solid player.   
 You know, he doesn't come into net much so I didn't get a chance to see how well he volleys, but the way he was hitting the ball he didn't need to.  
  
  Q. Obviously frustrated now, but a decent week in reflection.   
 JAMES BLAKE: Yeah. You know, if I look back in a week or so I'll think making the quarters of a clay court Masters Series should be considered a pretty good week.   
 Right now it's a little disappointing because I feel like I could be further and have a chance in the semifinal here. I don't have it, so hopefully better luck next week in Hamburg.  
  
  Q. Will you go there straightaway?  
 JAMES BLAKE: Yeah. I'm sure I'll try and to get out of here tomorrow morning.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT