SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 30, 2008
James Blake
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. What is it about Fabrice? He gives people fits a lot. What is it about the way he plays?   
 JAMES BLAKE: It's the way he plays. It's a tricky way. It's very unconventional. There's nobody out there to really prepare to play Fabrice. There is no one that plays that way. You can see how much he loves the game. He competes. He's playing singles and doubles every week.   
 I'm sure he doesn't need the money anymore, it's about how much he loves the game. It's fun to see. Not fun to play against, but it's fun to watch. I think fans appreciate that. I hope they do. And myself and him have some pretty good battles.   
 Obviously our styles are pretty contrasting, and I'm trying to attack him with my forehand. He's trying to get a few more backhands and put me on the defensive. It's a lot of fun.   
 We both play some pretty good defense. He's probably a little better, and a little more accurate with his defensive shots, and it's definitely fun to play. Fun to win.   
  
  Q. You feel relief? Did you worry at any point?   
 JAMES BLAKE: Yeah, worried almost every single match. Especially when it's one set all and it's that hot out there. It turns into a physical battle. I'm always worried. I'm up a set and a break and I'm still worried with how talents these guys are out here and how hard he fights.   
 I don't really relax until matchpoint is over with, so I was definitely worried. And he could have picked up his level at any point and played great, put the pressure on me, but I'm sure he was worried the same way. So that's the fun with sports and competition.  
  
  Q. Is that hat a Final Four statement?   
 JAMES BLAKE: This hat is a statement to one Pete Holtermann, whose team did not make it into the Final Four and my team did, so I'm pretty happy about that. Yeah, I'm very excited for the way North Carolina's playing right now. I've been a fan of it ever since Michael Jordan. I'm a huge Michael Jordan fan in just about everything, so I became a North Carolina fan, I'm a Chicago Bulls fan. It was just when I was growing up, he was just kind of my idol, so everything about him I started becoming a fan of.   
 I don't know. I've stuck with it. Even obviously after he's gone from North Carolina, he's gone from the Bulls. I stuck with the Bulls even in the lean years after he left. I've just been a fan of all of them, and just about everything about North Carolina.   
 It's actually the only other school I seriously considered going to besides Harvard because of how much of a fan I was of the school and how great of a time I had just being on that campus. And.  
 Coach Paul is also a great guy. So I had a lot of fun there, and thought about going there.   
  
  Q. Speaking of another sport, we understand you hit deep at Marlins stadium yesterday.   
 JAMES BLAKE: I did. I'm pretty proud of that. Pretty happy you brought that up, because I probably would have anyway (laughing). Yeah, I got one out. All the guys at the beginning were saying there's no way me or Sam would be able to get one out. Sam got two out, I got one out. We both took them pretty deep over the little wall that's a little higher in left field.   
 Then when the Yankees came on I told them, and they didn't really believe me either. They thought I was lying, so I was pretty proud. I hope they got it on video, too. I still have to prove myself to Mardy, because Mardy got one out of Shea, and I couldn't get one out of Shea. So we still have to do that again to see if we can get one out when we're both there. So I'm still practicing for that battle.   
  
  Q. How windy was it?   
 JAMES BLAKE: The wind, gale force in our faces, of course. No, it was swirling a little bit. But it wasn't -- I don't think it was much of a factor, especially Sam's second one. Doesn't matter how windy it was. That one was getting out. I'd like to think mine was. It's amazing how quickly you kind of pick it up.   
 Because our first round, we did three rounds of hitting. First round both of us were kind of grounding a few and just not really getting really good wood on it. Second round we're definitely getting a lot better. Both of us hitting the wall a little bit.   
 By the third round he got two in a row, and I stopped after I got one out. I would like to think that I would hit more, but I don't know. I got one out, and you kind of start picking it up. It's fun to be an athlete in something else that you're so used to doing it.   
 Then we saw the real guys get out and hit and it's a whole other level. The ball jumps off their bats like nothing we could do.  
  
  Q. Did you play baseball as a kid?   
 JAMES BLAKE: Yeah, I played little league up until I was about 13 years old; I loved it. I still love getting out there and having some fun. They wouldn't let me take fielding practice. They were a little scared I'd get hurt. But I love doing any of that kind of stuff.   
 Just playing, I'll definitely be in quite a few of those softball leagues when I get older. All the guys with the beer guts and the six packs with the coolers in the dugout, and I'll have a great time doing that.   
 Maybe be a ringer on someone's company team hopefully, if they don't notice me. I can pull my hat down real low. I love the game and I love competing and being with the guys. It was fun just hanging out with all the Marlins. I've gotten to know a few of the Yankees thanks to them living in Tampa, so getting to see some of them it was a lot of fun.  
  
  Q. How much are you looking forward to the Olympics?   
 JAMES BLAKE: It's going to be a thrill. I've never been there. Never been part of the team. Being part of the Davis Cup team is always an honor. But the Olympic team, it's a little different. I'm excited to interact with all the other athletes.   
 Because, for them, it's the biggest thing in their careers, and to see how hard they've trained and just talk to them about how much they've sacrificed to get to that point is going to be a lot of fun.   
 Hopefully I can meet a lot of new people. Mardy's told me how great his experience was over in Athens, and I hope it will be the same thing in Beijing. I'm really looking forward to having that opportunity to compete for my country again.  
  
  Q. As far as the competition, how would it compare to a Grand Slam, do you think?   
 JAMES BLAKE: A lot of people have kind of joked about that. Which would you rather have? I think a Grand Slam title in this sport is what's viewed historically as a bigger deal. I was shocked when I actually did an exhibition with Lindsay Davenport and Andre Agassi and Steffi Graf, all three who have gold medals.   
 When they asked them what their two greatest memories of their tennis careers were, none of the three mentioned the gold medal, which was very surprising to me. I feel like it would be such a thrill and such an honor. But the way they said it, it really is kind of overshadowed by a lot of the other sports at the Olympics. Which I don't know if that's fair or unfair, but it's true that all the other sports build up to that for their whole four years.   
 And for tennis, we have kind of a never ending year. We have four Grand Slams every year to look forward to that are somewhat the pillars of our calendar. It doesn't have maybe the same meaning, but it would be an honor to help the country in the medal count and be a part of a team that's really proud of you.   
 So I'm looking forward to it, but I don't know if it would be the same as winning a US Open or a Wimbledon.   
  
  Q. The hard court season is so important to you usually, especially New Haven and the US Open. I mean, Beijing could really kind of throw a wrinkle into that for you. But you're willing to make that tradeoff?   
 JAMES BLAKE: Absolutely. I was pretty disappointed I missed it in 2004, but you never know how long you get to play this game. I've had so many - so many - great doors open for me. So many opportunities and so many pluses that I'm thrilled to have this chance.   
 If it does hurt some of the preparation, if I miss out on New Haven, or maybe a couple of the other tournaments, it's sometimes a once-in-a-lifetime thing. You have to take advantage of those.  
 I never know if I'll get to play again. I hope I'm still playing in four years, but if I'm not, at least I'll be able to say I played on the Olympic team one time. That's something you can always be proud of.   
 I'm always excited when I get to do something like that, where I get to say I did something that can never be taken away. To be an Olympian, there are so many people who work their whole lives to become an Olympian, and either fall short or make it there and are so proud of it. For me to be an Olympian is something that I'm willing to make sacrifices for.   
 I think the whole idea of sports, everyone must have made certain sacrifices to get where they are today. It's just a matter of figuring out which sacrifices you're willing to make. That's definitely one I'm willing to make.   
 It means so much more to you when you make those sacrifices and you're happy about your decision. You have no regrets. And all the parties I've missed, all the friendships, the strain in your friendships and relationships or anything, or all the travel and all the sacrifices I've made for this career, I haven't had a regret yet. So I'm thrilled about that.   
 To do this, I don't think I'll regret it once I'm done with this year and done with my career, I think I'll be able to say I did it my best. The Olympics is a part of it, and I'm proud to be part of that team.  
  
  Q. The U.S. men got shut out in Athens in tennis. Would it be important for you guys to change that? Is there a collective motivation there?   
 JAMES BLAKE: Pretty sure Mardy got a silver medal.  
  
  Q. In Athens?   
 JAMES BLAKE: Yeah. I remember watching it. I was sick, and I was very proud of him.   
  
  Q. Well, let me rephrase it. What about the team aspect of it?   
 JAMES BLAKE: Well, I was really happy to see -- over there, I was watching it from my couch. Kind of biting my nails and nervous with Mardy the whole time. But I also saw Andy Roddick in the crowd there.   
 He could have been home preparing for the US Open. But he was still in the stands cheering on Mardy and I think that says a lot about how much the guys care about each other, how much we really enjoy being part of team.   
 It's going to be interesting for me because it will be a little different than the Davis Cup where each match also does reflect on you. It really is a whole team atmosphere as opposed to the Olympic team, which is a team, but you're still out there competing individually for a medal.   
 So it will be really interesting to see the dynamic. But I know the guys that are going as of right now: Myself, the Bryans, Sam Querrey, and hopefully a couple of the other guys will get their ranking up and qualify. We all get along so well, and it's going to be a lot of fun. I hope to be sitting there watching and cheering them on, and vice versa, them cheering me on.   
 So I'm excited about that, and I think the dynamic will be great. We are looking forward to hopefully having some medals. Coming back with some hardware. I remember how proud Mardy was when he came back, and how proud we were of him.  
  
  Q. What do you think about Patrick announcing that he's not going to the Olympics, or Andy?   
 JAMES BLAKE: Well, it's such an individual sport, tennis, that you really have to make decisions based on the way you feel and what is best for you. I know he's got a very young child at home, and it's tough to take a couple of weeks out to go all the way over to Beijing.   
 It's just people have different priorities. I don't want to speak to exactly what's going on or why he would do that, but I'm sure he has his reasons. He's still the Davis Cup captain, so I'm still a part of a team with him.   
 Same with Andy. He's shown unbelievable commitment to Davis Cup, so I really hope no one faults him for not going to the Olympics. His commitment to Davis Cup has definitely been a sacrifice that may have taken away from his individual results on tour, and I'm so proud to be a teammate with him in that regard.   
 For him not to go to the Olympics after he's already gone in Athens and to be two weeks in front of the US Open, I don't fault him at all. I never would, and I hope no one else does.   
 I see him as a teammate, and I know not many people get that opportunity or are lucky enough to have that honor. But you can't ask for anything more in a teammate, so I'm so proud of him. I would never fault him for not going, and he's got a great chance to win the US Open, I think.   
 You never know how many chances you'll have at that, so he needs to take advantage of that opportunity.   
  
  Q. So baseball season's almost starting. How do you follow Mets games?   
 JAMES BLAKE: I'm thinking of going to one tomorrow, watch Johan Santana. If it wasn't so hot out here it would make it a lot easier to sit there and watch for three or four hours. I think they're looking good. I just hope they don't get my hopes up again and collapse a little at the end, but I think Johan Santana will be able to put together a quality start, and looking forward to great a great year.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT