GINN OPEN
April 12, 2007
Na Ri Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DANA GROSS-RHODE: (No audio).   
 NA RI KIM:  175, 5-iron.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Okay.  Two.   
 NA RI KIM:  Right bunker.  Fifteen yard, 3-putt.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  All right.  Birdie on 6.   
 NA RI KIM:  165, 6-iron.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Okay.   
 NA RI KIM:  13-yard putt.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  And she made it?  Jeez.  Okay.  Birdie on 8.  If her caddie is around I can go get her score card from her caddie.   
 NA RI KIM:  53.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Okay.   
 NA RI KIM:  Hit 7.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Okay.   
 NA RI KIM:  8 steps.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Okay.  So about 8 yards.  Okay.  We can get the rest of these after you're done and I can write them in the transcript.   
 Na Ri, I want to say congratulations.  You had a very good round.  How do you feel about your round?  What went really well for you out there today?   
 NA RI KIM:  Today I had a very good round.  My shot was really good.  However, I was missing a lot of short putts, and thankfully my long putt was able to get into the hole.   
 So I was able to make some birdies and overall I had a good round.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 NA RI KIM:  Two long putts.  Myself and my caddie were talking about the long putt, and then we agreed a hundred percent on the lie.  So we were just trying to put it closer to the pin and then it just went in.   
  
  Q.  What do you think you would have shot had you made a lot of the short putts?   
 NA RI KIM:  I miss three really short putts for birdie.  And so there were quite a few par putts for short putt that I made it bogey.  So if I had made all that, probably very good score.   
  
  Q.  How were you playing coming into the event yesterday when you were playing in the Pro-Am or practice round?  Or this week coming in, did you feel that you were on top of your game?   
 NA RI KIM:  If I came to this event I was practicing a lot on my shots, iron shots, and I thought that I was going to do well on the shots.  When I came here it was the weather issues and all that, so I start kind of getting worried.   
 But my shots were good.  I was focusing on shots so I wasn't really paying attention to putting.  So I guess putting wasn't too good today.   
  
  Q.  During the round, did you feel that you had a very good score in you, like you could shoot a very good score today during the round?   
 NA RI KIM:  On the first obviously I started with a double bogey so I was kind of worried.  Okay, this is going to be a tough round.  And so I was just trying to keep my pace, trying to make one shot at a time, and then it started to work out.   
 And then so, Okay, maybe I can do this.  There's a lot of holes left.  I can shoot some good scores.  So I was going one by one, hole by hole, and there were a lot of chances for me to make birdies so that's how it happened.   
  
  Q.  Have you been in this position before shooting 5-under in the first round?  And you have a long time before teeing off tomorrow.  You have all afternoon and then all morning tomorrow.  Will you be doing a lot of practicing?   
 NA RI KIM:  No, I haven't been on this, and tomorrow I'll just do the same thing that I do every week.  I usually come out hour and a half before my tee time and try to warm up, and that's what I'm going to do tomorrow.  And then, you know, I'm just going to try to play like today.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT