BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 6, 2015
Andres Gonzalez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Not a bad day's work. New good record there with 21 points. Just get some comments.
ANDRES GONZALES: Yeah, today was a lot of fun. I wouldn't have been able to do it without my caddie, Brandon DeStefano. He did a lot of number figuring here.
Playing at altitude here in Reno, early in the morning it can play a little bit less and then get to the afternoon and it can play a little bit more. 
I went off what he said and hit a lot of good putts today.

Q. One round vaults you to the top. Can you believe where you came in and where you leave in this round?
ANDRES GONZALES: Yeah, one round always does a lot on this tour. If you play really well, you can definitely jump up. 
That's what I did today. I was very fortunate that I was able to make a lot of birdies. I made a lot of putts today and had a lot of fun.

Q. How does this round stack up in your career compared to other rounds you've had?
ANDRES GONZALES: It ties it. I shot 62 today. Did it bogeying the 1st hole, which was nice, but I made a lot of birdies coming back from that.
Today was a lot fun. I couldn't have asked for a better day.

Q. Start on 1 or 10?
ANDRES GONZALES: 10.

Q. What happened on the bogey? I mean, I gotta ask. 
ANDRES GONZALES: I hit it a little bit short and just flubbed a chip and missed a six‑footer.
You want to ask about the rest of the birdies? 

Q. You have any real long ones?
ANDRES GONZALES: Probably made a 25‑footer on No. 16, the par‑3. That was probably my longest putt.

Q. Bender, or just kind of straight?
ANDRES GONZALES: It probably broke about a foot and a half over 25 feet. It was pretty consistent the whole way through. That was probably my best roll of the day. 

Q. Mentally going into tomorrow how do you feel? 
ANDRES GONZALES: Yeah, I feel real good going into tomorrow. Whenever you get the putter rolling hot it gives you a lot of confidence going into the weekend especially. 
Yeah, excited to get into the weekend. It's going to be the first time, or at least as of right now I think I have the lead. So first time going into the weekend with a lead. Usually have had to play some catch‑up in the past, so it's going to be fun. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT