FRYS.COM OPEN
October 9, 2014
Andres Gonzalez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  ANDRES GONZALES:   I finished 11th on the Money List, and yeah, my number is 22 this week.

Q.   How refreshing is it to‑‑ it's one out of probably 115 rounds for the year, but refreshing to start the way you did?
ANDRES GONZALES:   It's definitely a confidence builder getting out here and starting that way.   I really feel good about it because I don't think I was as sharp as I could have been, but as far as ball‑striking, I scrambled well and got up‑and‑down.   When I did miss fairways, I missed them in the right spot.   There's definitely a lot of room to improve, but definitely pleased with the way I've started. 

Q.   A lot of the golfers are describing this course as kind of an old‑school layout.   Is that the way you'd describe it?
ANDRES GONZALES:   Yeah, very much so.   It's not overly long.   It's not real overpowering, but there are a lot of sections of the green where if you're not in the right spot, you're going to have a tough up‑and‑down or a tough two‑putt, so you want to be below the hole on a lot of them.   You have to be in the right position on fairways.   You can be in the fairway and not have a clear shot, so you have to be on the right half of the fairway, or if you do miss a fairway be on the proper side.

Q.   Maybe not a course that people can just overpower?
ANDRES GONZALES:   Yeah, I don't think that you're going to have anybody overpowering it.   With some of the doglegs and kind of going‑‑ trying to play into position and take some clubs out of your hands on certain holes. 

Q.   You say you like the wine country; do you come out here a lot?
ANDRES GONZALES:   My wife and I come out here maybe once a year.   We just like the area and like to kind of taste wine.

Q.   You've got a lot of golf holes yet to go.   Do you anticipate the golf course changing the next three days?   This confidence you acquired today, do you think that can hang with you for the next three rounds?
ANDRES GONZALES:   Yeah, I plan on it to.   I've been playing pretty well here the last few weeks in our time off.   Been working hard but still taking a little time off as far as relaxing.   I don't have to get up at 6:00 in the morning to go out and practice.   I can sleep in and then work. 
But yeah, I think the course is probably going to firm up a little bit, and the greens are going to start bouncing a little bit.   I think everybody is going to make some adjustments for that. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
ANDRES GONZALES:   Very happy.   I think it's leading, so any time that you're in the lead, you're playing well.   You're with the best players in the world out here, so it's fun to start that way.

Q.   Can you describe sort of what kind of course it is?   This is obviously the first time an event have been here in 30‑something years.   Do you feel like it's a good test for this level?
ANDRES GONZALES:   I do.   It suits my eye well.   I like tree‑lined courses with big trees, and poa annua grass is what I've grown up on with the greens, so I feel pretty comfortable out here.   I don't think that‑‑ I think you have to hit every shot out here.   You have to shape shots around trees.   You can hit driver, you can hit 3‑wood, you can hit whatever you want, but I don't know if anybody is going to be overpowering the course except for on some par‑5s, but most of the par‑5s are reach only, it just depends how short a clubs people are going to be coming in with. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
ANDRES GONZALES:   Yeah, I wouldn't say that it's flying real far, but I don't think that it's flying short.   I think it's pretty standard. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
ANDRES GONZALES:   The fairways are playing pretty firm.   They're definitely fun.   There's not going to be a lot of roll in the rough.   The rough is just thick enough where if you roll through, it's not going to roll much more once it gets into the rough, and it's definitely thick enough, and especially in the morning, moist enough that it is going to hinder the ball coming out. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
ANDRES GONZALES:   You know, it's tough to say.   It's just come out, play as well as you can, and see how each day happens.   I think that different days are going to have different pins where people are going to be able to fire at them a little bit more and be more aggressive, but it's just hard to tell. 

Q.   How long did it take you to get out for the first time, from leaving college to getting on TOUR?
ANDRES GONZALES:   I graduated in 2006 and my first year on the PGA TOUR was 2011.

Q.   When you lose your card the first year or don't keep it, and then if I'm mistaken didn't Lee Williams make about a 1,000‑foot putt on the last day?
ANDRES GONZALES:   Yeah.   I don't know if Lee was the exact guy that caused me not to get my card.   It ended up being that at the end, but I guess‑‑

Q.   I haven't got to it yet. 
ANDRES GONZALES:   Lee did do that. 

Q.   When you go through that, how much more rewarding is it to come back from that and get your card again, and I guess the broader question is what kind of test of your confidence is that, too, when you don't keep your card the first time to believe that you're going to get back?
ANDRES GONZALES:   I always felt that I've been good enough to be at this level.   Whether or not I've proven that each year, which I obviously haven't my first two years, I think the most you can do is just take confidence from whatever you did.   I've felt and have felt that each year, even though I may move down a level, I have improved each year, and I think taking confidence from wherever I can get it, whether I improved on driving the ball that year or putting, mentally I feel like I'm a stronger player and stayed more even keel.   It's taking positives from whatever I can and knowing that I'll be back out here. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
ANDRES GONZALES:   I would say no different.   I'd obviously like to stay out here.   I think that would be more rewarding.   I think the most rewarding would be the year after I keep my card while I'm on the TOUR, and that probably is because I have yet to do that. 

Q.   When did you cut your hair? 
ANDRES GONZALES:   Last year in February.   I donated it to locks for love, and that's why.   It was getting hot. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
ANDRES GONZALES:   I didn't like studying for tests, and I was a fairly proficient writer.   I wasn't very good when I was in high school, and my parents had a writing tutor for me every Monday all four years of high school, so when I got to college I could throw some papers together pretty quickly, so I just wrote instead of taking tests.   My tests were papers. 
DOUG MILNE:   Andres, congratulations on a great start. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT