HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 17, 2012
Andres Gonzalez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   4‑under par, a bogey at the end but still a good opening round for you.   
ANDRES GONZALES:   Yeah, I played solid.   I came out, tried to hit the fat part of the green, started making putts on the front side and got it going.   
   
 Q.   We were talking to some guys and it seems like the wind might pick up the in the afternoon tomorrow, so having the afternoon the first day and the morning the second day might be favorable, especially off of a good score like this.   
ANDRES GONZALES:   It's one of those things that you hope to get a good draw, and sometimes you do and sometimes you don't, and it usually works out in the end, and you always take it.   
   
 Q.   I wanted to ask you about Twitter.   Is it a good way to communicate with the fans?   
ANDRES GONZALES:   Yeah.   It's hard to keep up and answer everybody, but it's a lot of fun.   People seem to like it.   It's an easy way for the fans to get in and feel like they're actually able to talk to the players.   That's always a good thing, celebrities or whatever.   
   
 Q.   Is that part of your personality?   Seems like you have fun.   
ANDRES GONZALES:   I try to.   If we're not having fun, what's the point in playing?   
   
 Q.   Well, money; it's always a good thing.   
ANDRES GONZALES:   Yeah, it is, but you play‑‑ if you play well and you're having a good time then money is just a bonus.   
   
 Q.   Has Tiger Woods responded to any of yourtweets?     
ANDRES GONZALES:   Tiger has not.   
   
 Q.   Are you disappointed?   
ANDRES GONZALES:   No, it's kind of funny.   I know he knows about it.   
   
 Q.   And do you have any red pants?   
ANDRES GONZALES:   I do; they're coming out Sunday.   
   
 Q.   Talk about your season on the Nationwide Tour.   How have you played?   
ANDRES GONZALES:   I've played well.   I think I only made half of the cuts, but when I do make the cut, I'm there in contention.   
It's nothing to freak out about when you're not playing on the weekend, but as long as when you are playing you're in contention, that's kind of the key, that's what you need to do out there.   
You have to finish in the top‑five at least a few times in the year to get back out here, and I've been fortunate enough to do so.   
   
 Q.   Speaking of getting back out here, sponsor's exemption this week.   Is that putting any extra pressure on you to make something out of it?   
ANDRES GONZALES:   No.   I know I've been playing well all year, and if I can come out here and do the same thing ‑‑ the only thing that's different is the size of the purse and the amount of people, and I like playing in front of people and interacting with them, so I'm enjoying myself.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT