MAYAKOBA GOLF CLASSIC AT RIVIERA MAYA-CANCUN
February 24, 2011
Andres Gonzalez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  NELSON SILVERIO: We welcome current first-round leader Andres Gonzales to the media center of the Mayakoba Golf Classic at Riviera Maya. You're a rookie this year. Can you tell us how your season is going so far and what clicked out there for you today? 
 ANDRES GONZALES: I hit a lot of fairways today. Easier to score. The wind is definitely up out there, so every shot you have to concentrate. Really everything so far has been fun. I've missed two cuts by a couple shots, so first round out here is still a blast either way. I played Pebble Beach before we came here. It was a treat, my first time out there, and really just had a lot of fun and have enjoyed everything I've been doing so far.
 NELSON SILVERIO: We've had a few players come in, and they've talked about the change in conditions from earlier in the week to today, the wind kind of picking up. Did you have to adjust much to that? 
 ANDRES GONZALES: I think there's been the same amount of wind, but it was definitely more windy today. It didn't die down. It was pretty consistent. Every shot I had to focus a little more. You had a little more math to do, a little more conversions to do. We did a pretty good job of it today. 
 NELSON SILVERIO: Is this your first time visiting Mayakoba? 
 ANDRES GONZALES: First time visiting the Mayakoba resort. I played a Canadian Tour event a couple years ago just down the street at Iberostar where the Monday qualifier was this week. But first time here. Beautiful place. Everybody treats us fantastic. The whole resort is nice. It's nice being on site. I have my wife down with me and really vacationing, enjoying playing golf.
 NELSON SILVERIO: You're in a relaxed state of mind and playing well. 
 ANDRES GONZALES: Trying to. 

 Q. This being your first time competing at this golf course, is there a particular thing that stands out for you from this golf course that you like, that appeals to you more than something else? 
 ANDRES GONZALES: The course is just in phenomenal shape. The greens are just perfect. It's hard to get greens that are much better than this. Where I grew up, I don't deal with a lot of grain like there is on the greens here, but I'm slowly getting better at it the more and more time I spend doing it. The course is just phenomenal. It's in really, really good shape. 

 Q. We spoke a little bit about this before, but the wind, how would you describe it compared to earlier in the week? 
 ANDRES GONZALES: The wind was very consistent today. It was consistently strong. It never really let down. In the practice rounds, it let down a little bit so you'd get some high winds and then you'd get some low winds. So it was really -- yeah, you had to concentrate a lot out there. You had to pay attention to every shot out there, including putts. Often times if you had a putt that was downwind, downgrain, it would get away from you. So you had to really pay attention to every shot that you hit. 

 Q. You're currently in the lead. Do you feel that score will hold up by the end of the day? 
 ANDRES GONZALES: I don't know. It's playing tough out there, but playing on the PGA TOUR, someone has got to come in probably lower. But if it does hold up, awesome. It'll be my first time sleeping with the lead. But everybody is pretty good out here. I would assume that there will be some scores that would trump it. 

 Q. You have a nice little mustache. Anyone confuse you for a Mexican and speak Spanish to you? 
 ANDRES GONZALES: I don't know if it's the mustache or my Spanish name. I get a lot of people speaking Spanish to me. I can speak un poquito, but I'm glad I have Nelson here with me to help me out because I'm not following you all real well. 

 Q. Talk about the vacation aspect of México. What's your message to people who are planning to come or may be hesitant to come to México? 
 ANDRES GONZALES: I don't see any reservations coming to México. I think this place is beautiful. Everybody here treats you and welcomes you as much as they can. Like I said, the course and the resort at Mayakoba are phenomenal. 
 My wife and I are actually treating this as our honeymoon. We got married a year and a half ago but never -- we weren't able to really afford to have a honeymoon, so we're kind of treating this as our honeymoon. We're staying here on-site and really just having a great time. 

 Q. Were you given any warnings before you came out here down to México, or was that --
 ANDRES GONZALES: No, not really. No. 

 Q. Have you played any more golf courses here in México?
 ANDRES GONZALES: Yeah, I've played in Culiacán México at Culiacán Country Club; Iberostar here; I've played El Tigre in Puerto Vallarta; I've played in Cabo at Cabo del Sol and another one when I was younger. But I spent my first five years of professional golf playing on the Canadian Tour, and the Canadian Tour -- also, in Mazatlán, also, at El Cid. Yeah, I've played quite a bit in México. 
 I really enjoy it. I really enjoy playing in México. The courses are all real fun to play. It's always perfect weather, so it's really enjoyable. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT