SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 15, 2021
Vaughn Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Steady play out there.  What worked for you?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:   It was pretty solid overall.  I had a few mishaps, but made some good birdies today and a couple good par saves, as well, to kind of keep things going.  It was good.
Q. John Rollins was joking, he was just saying great shot, great putt; did it feel that smooth?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:   No, it did not.  I'm working on a few things, so I'm a little unsure what it's like in competition.  I did not feel at too much ease.  I was grinding pretty hard.  Everything feels pretty good.  Just didn't know how things were going to feel under pressure and tournament play and still trying to feel it out and get two more days to try to do it.
Q. Obviously the golf course is in front of you and bouncing and firm, and when it is like that and nothing fancy that you have to worry about, does that help you get into a rhythm with what you're trying to work on?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:   It does, it helps me because I'm not the longest hitter.  It's more of a position golf course.  I just try to get my position in the fairway and then hopefully hit some good iron shots.  For longer hitters, it's probably -- there's a lot more options out there, take on a dogleg or not.  For me I'm hitting it to the dogleg and trying to get a birdie putt.
Q. How would you describe your round?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:   It was pretty steady.  I hit a few bad tee shots coming in.  Overall I played solid.  A couple big saves and a couple nice birdie putts that I needed to keep the good momentum going.  Overall pretty solid.  I'm pleased with how I'm playing.
Q. Do you feel with the conditions, it was there for the taking?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:   Yeah, I feel like it was going to be pretty jumbled and a lot of good players within a few shots.  I tried to keep the pedal down and keep making birdies.  I knew everybody else was probably doing the same.
Q. Did you feel this kind of week coming?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:   No, not at all.  I've been struggling for a little while now.  So I'm thrilled.  I'm really good -- really happy to see some good play and I'm just looking forward to playing this weekend.
But I did not see it coming, no.
Q. What kind of things have you been working on in your game?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:   Just simple stuff.  You know, setup and posture.  Nothing dramatic.  I'm working on release a little bit.  Trying to keep it pretty simple.
Q. Not to sound negative, you're not the longest hitter out here on TOUR, but do you feel when you come to places like this, these are places that you know you can win, where maybe somewhere like Torrey Pines you don't feel that way?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:   Yeah, absolutely.   That's why I'm not playing Torrey Pines.
Yeah, this is a great golf course for short hitters.  It's a position golf course and evens out the field that way.  You just to be in the fairway and be in the right position and you can get some good looks.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT