WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2017
Vaughn Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You raced out in 30, pack in 33.  63.  Solid day's work.
VAUGHN TAYLOR: I played really solid today.  Had a lot of looks.  Could have been a little better but I was lucky to get one there at the last, drove it in the rough and just kind of get a nice jumper and turned out perfect.  So, all in all, I played really solid.  Really happy with my round.
Q. Much is made about the heat, the humidity.  For a Georgia boy this is --
VAUGHN TAYLOR: A couple times of day I wasn't feeling the best.  I was shade seeking early, trying to find as much shade as possible.  Once the sun comes out you can't really avoid it.  It's hot.  Not much wind and pants and hats, it's warm.
Q. Now, it's the only Donald Ross course we play on the Tour.  Your impressions how Sedgefield played today.
VAUGHN TAYLOR: It was really good.  In perfect shape.  Greens, you know, have a little bounce to them.  Just right.  The course -- it's just in great shape.  There's a little bit of rough.  You catch some jumpers and you can get some good lies but it's really good.  I enjoy the way it's set-up.
Q. That's a good first day.  Congratulations.
VAUGHN TAYLOR: Thank you.  I appreciate it.
Q. Nice playing.  So, what was going so well for you today?
VAUGHN TAYLOR: I hit it really well today.  You know, hit a lot of fairways and I had a lot of looks inside of ten feet.  So, just struck it well.  I made some putts, too.  I played good all the way around.
Q. You come in here kind of feeling like you were kind of going in the right direction?
VAUGHN TAYLOR: I felt I was going in the right direction.  Last week at home I feel like I needed to tweak a little something to maybe get over that hump, kind of mediocrity.  So far it seems like I did that.  We'll see.  It's golf.  Tomorrow could be different.  We'll see.
Q. Your 150, I think, your number right now but you have some -- is that your FedEx --
VAUGHN TAYLOR: 119.
Q. You have some comfort in the fact that you're exempt no matter what.  Does that free you up a little bit?
VAUGHN TAYLOR: Little bit.  It definitely helps to know you have next year regardless so -- but I want to make the Playoffs and try to do some damage there.  It does free you up a little bit.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT