SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
March 30, 2016
Vaughn Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOHN BUSH: We'd like to welcome Vaughn Taylor into the interview room, making your tenth start here at the Shell Houston Open but first since 2012.  I know you're glad to be back.  Just talk a little bit about being back in Houston.   
VAUGHN TAYLOR: It's good to be back in Houston.  Last time I was here I played well and some good memories.  I like it here and, you know, it's nice to be able to have somewhere to play.   
JOHN BUSH: Runner up finish in 2010.  Just take us back to what you remember about that week.   
VAUGHN TAYLOR: That week, I played well on Sunday and made a good birdie at the last to give myself a chance and then Anthony Kim luckily made a bogey and didn't fare well in the playoff, but it was a good week.  Played really well and played solid on Sunday.   
JOHN BUSH: Still working around with a smile on your face after that win at AT&T Peeble Beach.  Talk about how that has changed your career here for the next couple years.   
VAUGHN TAYLOR: Every day I think about it still and it's amazing.  You know, I played a few events since and, you know, every day driving to the golf course, just kind of -- can't think wow, I'm actually back on Tour and can't believe I'm playing here this week and those kind of thoughts go through my head every day.  It's a great feeling.   
 Q.  How many calls and text messages have you gotten from folks back home saying, "hey, congratulations on getting to the Masters, got two badges for me?"  
VAUGHN TAYLOR: Not too many.  Lot of congratulations but not too many ticket requests, but just a few.   
 Q.  What is it going to be like?  I know you've done it before, but going back -- back home to the Masters and playing in it at home?  
VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah.  I think it's going to be fun.  It's going to be interesting.  Hopefully not too much going on and try to keep it low key, but it's going to be something.  I've got some butterflies already just thinking about it and really looking forward to it.  I just want to enjoy the experience and have fun with it.   
 Q.  Will you actually stay at home, sleep in your own bed?  
VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yes.   
 Q.  How far are you exactly from the course?  
VAUGHN TAYLOR: Fifteen, 20 minutes.  Got to take a little bit different route, but it might take 30 minutes the way I got to go.  That's good enough for me.   
 Q.  How many times have you actually played Augusta National, not obviously at the Masters but just in general?  
VAUGHN TAYLOR: I haven't played that many times.  I played it a couple times in college, and then I think when I qualified in 2006, I played a lot leading up to the tournament and then handful of times in between those years, and then I played once last week.  So, you know, I can't put a number on it.  But not a number of crazy amounts.  But enough I feel like I'm comfortable with the course.   
 Q.  How did it look to you compared to what you recall?  
VAUGHN TAYLOR: You know, it looked very similar and didn't really notice any changes.  Felt really comfortable with what I was seeing.  So, looked little different without all the spectators and things when I played last week.  So, that was a little different.  I haven't seen it like that in years.  That was a little different for me.  But once the gallery gets out there, kind of define the fairways a little more and things.  So, it will be nice.   
 Q.  Since winning at Peeble Beach, has it been -- sometimes after you have a big win, it can be tough to kind of refocus.  Have you felt any of that at all?  
VAUGHN TAYLOR: Little bit.  But I think with Augusta coming up (laughter) that was always, you know, kind of what I've been thinking about.  So, I've been practicing hard for that.  If I didn't have Augusta in front of me, it might have been a little different, but definitely the week after was hard, and in L.A. I really struggled that week just, you know, I couldn't focus on golf.  It was really hard to concentrate.  But each week has gotten better, and I've been working hard for next week.   
JOHN BUSH: Anything else?  All right.  That will do it, Vaughn.  Thank you for your time.   
VAUGHN TAYLOR: No problem.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT