AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 14, 2016
Vaughn Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I talked to you a few minutes ago, what's going through your mind right now?  
VAUGHN TAYLOR: Oh my God, I'm thinking about Augusta.  I get to play in the Masters.  I mean, are you kidding?   
I don't know.  I'm so thankful.  So lucky to be here.  So many people have helped me get here, the list is endless.  So, I'm just super excited.   
 Q.  Talk about how hard it was for you to get back.  
VAUGHN TAYLOR: Oh, man, a lot of dark days and nights, man.  I've worked hard, man.  But I couldn't have done it without my family, my wife, my teachers, all my friends.  There's so many people that have done a little thing here or a little thing there, all the way, man, it's been amazing.   
 Q.  Safe to say this is a life-changing victory?  
VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yes, it is.  It's been a long time.  I didn't think it was going to happen.  I worked so hard and just kept getting knocked down and knocked down.  And I just can't believe it actually happened today.  It's amazing.  So many people to thank.  I'm just at a loss for words right now.   
 Q.  Of all the things that come with this, the FedExCup points, a place to play, and a trip back home to Augusta.  What seems to resonate the biggest right now?  Not as much time to think about it, obviously.  
VAUGHN TAYLOR: I know.  I don't even have my TOUR card, and I got in this week on a past champion status.  I'm playing in the Masters pretty soon, so that's just a dream come true.  I have so many people to thank.  I don't want to take the credit.  There's so many people that have helped me get here.  I love everyone of them.  I thank them so much.   
 Q.  Six back beginning this final round, Vaughn, as Sunday was upon you, what were you hoping to do here Sunday at Pebble?  
VAUGHN TAYLOR: Top-10.  I just wanted to play next week.  I wasn't even thinking about winning, it wasn't even a thought, really.  Things were just -- it was just magical out there.  I could just feel it.  As I said, I had to keep my emotions under check, and I kept just trying to stay calm, and I can't believe it happened.   
 Q.  You rattled off a stretch of birdies on the back nine.  How aware were you of where you stood with just a couple holes to go?  
VAUGHN TAYLOR: I saw somewhere there on 14, I think.  I glanced at the board, but I wasn't looking at the leaderboard.  I wasn't -- I just knew Phil was behind me, and I couldn't think about the leaderboard.  So, I just kept trying to play my game and stay in the moment, stay in the present.   
 Q.  It's been a struggle for you the past few years.  A week ago you were in Columbia withdrawing from WEB.COM TOUR event.  A week later you're back in the winner's circle.  What are the initial emotions about how hard it was to get back here?  
VAUGHN TAYLOR: I mean talk about -- I missed the cut in Panama, nothing went right.  I go to Bogota and I got, I don't know if it was food poisoning or stomach flu, and I couldn't even play.  I had to withdraw.  I came here early and now I'm in the winner's circle.  It's not even believable.  So, just in disbelief.   
 Q.  When is the last time you did this many interviews?  
VAUGHN TAYLOR: Never.   
 Q.  Biggest win of your career?  
VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yes.  Definitely.  No doubt.   
 Q.  Tell us about Pebble Beach this week, the entire experience.  I understand you got in late.  Did you have any idea?  
VAUGHN TAYLOR: No, this is, I mean, I was first alternate at the deadline, and I'm standing here right now, and I just can't believe it.  This place has been good to me.  I played well here last year, just kind of fed off of that.  It's just been great.   
 Q.  I know you don't root against another player, but when he missed that putt what was going through your mind?  
VAUGHN TAYLOR: I just can't believe it.  I mean, I really can't believe it.   
 Q.  Was the key to your round maybe earlier at Spyglass or was today it?  
VAUGHN TAYLOR: It was -- the first round I played here, I didn't putt very well, and I just kind of keyed in on something my teacher taught me, and I just rolled it good the rest of the week.  And I putted really well this week.   
 Q.  Now, do I understand you live in Augusta, now you're going to play Augusta?  
VAUGHN TAYLOR: I do, yeah.   
 Q.  This is a step stone of greater things.  
VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah, this is a blessing.  It's a dream come true.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT