NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 12, 2014
Vaughn Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You're three back going into the weekend.   Do you feel like you're in solid position?  
VAUGHN TAYLOR:   Yeah, I think overall I'm in good shape, so just trying to keep doing what I'm doing on the weekend and just stay in the present.   
   
 Q.   People have been saying that these pins have been some of the toughest pins you guys have seen out here, like collectively 18 pins.   Would you echo that?  
VAUGHN TAYLOR:   Yeah, I mean, I would agree.   I think with the firmness of the greens, it's really hard to get to some of the pins now.   You just can't even play at some of them.   You have to play away and try to get your two‑putts.   They're tough.   There's a lot of little mounds and things in the greens that kind of prevent you from being able to fire right at them.   
   
 Q.   And yet for 35 holes you avoided a bogey.   
VAUGHN TAYLOR:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   How did you do that?  
VAUGHN TAYLOR:   Yeah, I three‑putted the last hole.   I drove it in the rough and thought I had a little bit of a flier lie, and it came out soft, and I had a 60‑footer for birdie.   
   
 Q.   On the computer it said that you putted off the green.   
VAUGHN TAYLOR:   Yeah, I putted it off the green.   I was on the front of the green on 9.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
VAUGHN TAYLOR:   You've just got to be in the right position.   I think almost with every pin, if you get in the wrong position, you're lucky to two‑putt.   You've just got to hit it in the fairway and give yourself a chance to hit a good shot on the green, and if you don't hit a good shot on the green, you're going to have a tough two‑putt.   
   
 Q.   The scores were almost two strokes higher than yesterday.   Was it primarily the pins or was the weather much of a factor with it being cloudy or windier today?  
VAUGHN TAYLOR:   I think the greens firmed up a little bit more, and then the pin placements.   The temperature and the wind was similar.   I played in the morning yesterday, and actually it was a little windier yesterday morning.   
   
 Q.   They say when you get in these things you really just need one really good finish, and right now you're a living testament to that.   I think you're right now projected to go from 77 into the top 10.   As you've gone through this season, and especially late in the season, have you been thinking that, that all I need is one good week and I'm okay?  
VAUGHN TAYLOR:   Yeah, I think last year being the first year of this format, we kind of saw how it played out.   Yeah, you just need one good week, really.   It's a fair system, and you've got four cracks at it, and I think it's good.  
   
 Q.   You took off Portland, right?  
VAUGHN TAYLOR:   Yeah, I took off Portland.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like that might have‑‑ are you good with that decision in retrospect?  
VAUGHN TAYLOR:   Yeah, yeah, I needed to take a break.   I played three or four in a row, and if I had played Portland, it would have ended up being however many‑‑ nine.   That's just not smart.   I played well in Knoxville, and that's close to home, so I drove home, got home Sunday night and had a nice little week at home.   
My game just got a little off in Fort Wayne and I struggled last week with it, and then I feel like I got it back on track this week.  
   
 Q.   I was just going to ask you that.   Why are you playing so well this week versus the last couple?  
VAUGHN TAYLOR:   Yeah, I had my putting coach come out in Knoxville, and he gave me a few tips, and on my swing, as well, and then I kind of lost track of it a little bit, and then I had him come out this week, as well.   He just kind of got me back on track Tuesday, and it's definitely been the difference.  
   
 Q.   What's his name?  
VAUGHN TAYLOR:   Pat O'Brien.   
   
 Q.   Obviously the firmness of the greens and the hole locations and stuff, but last week the scores were very low, but out here it's a 2‑over cut, which is very rare for this Tour.   Just general thoughts about this course and playing this course and if you enjoy that more?   
VAUGHN TAYLOR:   Yeah, I think this course is more like a PGA TOUR course.   Some weeks out here the courses are too short, and it's just a wedge contest.   But not this week; there's rough, the greens are undulating and firm, and you know, those are conditions we see on TOUR.   I prefer this.   
   
 Q.   Birdies, No.12, par‑5, do you remember what you hit in?  
VAUGHN TAYLOR:   Yeah, I hit 3‑wood in and two‑putted from about 40 feet.   
   
 Q.   No.15?   
VAUGHN TAYLOR:   15, I hit 7‑iron to about four feet.   
   
 Q.   17, par‑3?  
VAUGHN TAYLOR:   I hit 4‑iron to 10 feet.   
   
 Q.   Any big saves?   
VAUGHN TAYLOR:   No, not really.   Nothing spectacular.  
   
 Q.   You said at 9 you had 60 feet for birdie, and then how far did you have coming back?  
VAUGHN TAYLOR:   Probably 20 feet.   I was actually in the first cut of rough.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned nine straight weeks.   I talked to Kyle Reifers today, this was his ninth.   He missed the cut and he wasn't that unhappy.   He's going home for a couple days.   
VAUGHN TAYLOR:   Yeah, it's tough to play that many in a row.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT