NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 11, 2014
Vaughn Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   5‑under.   
VAUGHN TAYLOR:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Kind of slow the first 15 holes?  
VAUGHN TAYLOR:   Yeah, I didn't do much.   Hit the fairways, just having long birdie putts, just happy to two‑putt for pars and finally got a good opportunity on 9, 9 downwind.   Had a wedge into the green.   Hit it 15 feet and made the putt.   Kind of got things going and made a lot of good swings on the back nine.   We just had some good 10‑, 15‑footers and looks at birdies and made a few of them.  
   
 Q.   You're 77 on the priority list.   When is there a sense of urgency or is there?   
VAUGHN TAYLOR:   I don't think there is urgency yet.   I think next week if I'm still in that position there is some urgency there.   But you know, I think there are two ways to look at it.   You can look at it as there is urgency, and you can look at it as you don't have anything to lose, just everything to gain.   That's going to be my approach this week to next week, and just go out there and hopefully stay relaxed and play and just play golf and not worry about what's at stake.  
   
 Q.   Are you on the 126 to 160 on TOUR?   
VAUGHN TAYLOR:   No, I have past‑champion status, but maybe I'm going to have a Web card.  
   
 Q.   You get some starts?  
VAUGHN TAYLOR:   Yeah, I get a few, but nothing to write home about.  
   
 Q.   So when you say nothing to lose?   
VAUGHN TAYLOR:   Well, I have exempt on Web and same thing I had this year, so I think I only have stuff to gain from here.  
   
 Q.   Anything particularly good today?   
VAUGHN TAYLOR:   I hit everything pretty well.   Nothing really exceptional.   Just really kind of down the middle, on the green.   Looked at it, made a few, nothing spectacular.   Just played solid.  
   
 Q.   Good stretch for 4 out of 5?   
VAUGHN TAYLOR:   Yeah, I hit the fairway and I hit some good iron shots on the green, hit it pretty close on 16.   That's a short hole, hit 5‑wood, sand wedge into there, so that is definitely one you want to take advantage of.  
   
 Q.   Did the course change much with that little bit of rain?   
VAUGHN TAYLOR:   It did.   It was a little softer.   Still wasn't soft by any means.   The greens have a nice bounce to them, and the wind direction was the biggest change.   The holes playing into the wind were downwind the other day.   So like 11, for instance, hit 8‑iron, 7‑iron in on the practice round, and I hit 3‑iron in today, so that's a big difference.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT