TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 24, 2011
Vaughn Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DOUG MILNE: Okay. Vaughn Taylor, thanks for joining us after the second round of the Travelers Championship. Obviously a good 36 holes. Obviously a marathon day for you. But you got it all in, and you find yourself at the top of the leaderboard with Webb Simpson. Just a few comments on how you're finding the course and how you're feeling as you head into the weekend.
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah. The course is playing about as easy as I've ever seen it. The conditions are perfect out there, soft greens. It's playing a little longer than usual, obviously with all the rain, but the wind was not much of a factor today, and the course is in great shape as well. So it's -- definitely can make some putts out there. Just looking forward to the weekend. I'm playing well, so hopefully I can keep it going.
 DOUG MILNE: Okay. With that we'll just go ahead and open it up for some questions. 

 Q. Did you expect to have a good week coming in?
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: You know, I felt pretty good on the range this week. Just came off of two weeks off, so definitely fresh. 
 And that was the plan. I was getting a little burned out, a little frustrated, so decided to go home for a couple weeks, and you know, feel good. It's nice to come out refreshed and ready to go.

 Q. I understand 36 is tough, but when you're playing well it's a positive.
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah, definitely. A day like today, played good in the first round, you just kind of -- you just keep on going. Generally your swing feels the same and your game feels the same, so you just kind of stay in it and just keep playing, and it's nice to ride the momentum from the morning round. 

 Q. How many times in your career have you taken a lead into the weekend?
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: I'm not sure. Maybe two or three times maybe. 

 Q. Can you talk about the adjusting to greens speeds that aren't rolling as fast as you're used to?
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah. It's difficult at times. Definitely on uphill putts you gotta give it -- definitely give it some extra steam. But I myself, I do it by sight. I can just visually tell that the greens are slower, and that's kind of the way I do. I don't like to try to hit putts harder or firmer. So I just kind of use my instincts and kind of adjust that way. Just kind of adjusting without adjusting, if that makes any sense. 

 Q. Would you rather play the 36 as opposed to, whatever, 25, some random number?
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: I think so. When the weather is good like it was today. It's tough to play a few holes and then head home and then, you know, come back later on. It's nice just to get out there in one day and get into a rhythm and just play till your legs fall off. 
 DOUG MILNE: Okay. Well, Vaughn, we appreciate your time, and best of luck on the weekend. Hope to see you back here tomorrow.
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Awesome. Thanks, guys. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT