RBC HERITAGE
June 20, 2020
Vaughn Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Vaughn, just it's been about 24 hours now. Just kind of recap your feelings over the last 24 hours, going from finding out to getting tested and finding out your test. Just kind of the emotions the last 24 hours.  
VAUGHN TAYLOR: It's been an interesting 24 hours, lots of thoughts and emotions. Mostly thinking about Nick. I hope he's feeling well and gets through this physically and mentally. It's got to be a tough position to be in, being the first guy. I feel for him.   
Myself, it was a little strange coming out this morning. I watched a lot of SportsCenter last night and just kind of saw what was going on in football and other sports, and it's eye opening to see how much the virus is out there and how careful we have to be.   
 Q.  Has the attitude amongst the players kind of changed at all since finding out about the positive test?  
VAUGHN TAYLOR: I think so. I was talking to Joel this morning, and we were both kind of like this is a little eye opening. We need to be more careful. I felt like coming in the last week everyone was super careful, and then we got here, and the vibe on the Island is a little more relaxed. I feel like we might have gotten a little more relaxed too, complacent with being careful.   
Everyone has kind of ratcheted it up a little bit. Not hanging out with too many people, hanging with too many guys, stay out of restaurants and bars and those things. I think, if we do that, we should be safe. We've all got to keep that in the back of our mind and just be smart.   
 Q.  Last question. Do you still feel like PGA TOUR did a tremendous job of getting everything in place. Do you still feel comfortable with all the protocols and everything that's in place?  
VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah, I think so. We don't know all the facts and the statistics. I feel like I want to get tested before I get on this charter again, and I just want to make sure guys are getting tested enough. I don't know if we are. They're telling us we are. So we've got to trust those guys.   
But it would be nice if we just had the ability to get tested whenever we like. Some guys want to get tested more. Some guys are comfortable with the way it is. I think it's still a learning curve. I feel good that the TOUR is going to get everything worked out.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT