TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 24, 2011
Vaughn Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  June 24, 2011  
  
An Interview With:  
  
VAUGHN TAYLOR  
Round 1  
  
  Q. How good is 5-under?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: You know, today it's a decent score. The conditions are probably (indiscernible) out here. Just so much rain, it's so soft and not much wind.  
  
  Q. So you don't hit a shot on Thursday, and now you play, you finish, you got 40 minutes and off you go and you're going to play 36 today. How do you like that or how do you not like it?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Well, I'm rested up because I didn't play yesterday. You know, it's not a bad thing when you're playing well. You just kind of keep going and hopefully the momentum with keep going throughout the day.   
 It's a long day at the same time, but we're used to walking all these holes and stuff. Be tired at the end of the day, but it's good I'll have my two rounds out of the way.  
  
  Q. It's amazing what a good score will do for you, huh?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: It will. It'll definitely make you feel a lot better and not be so tired.  
  
  Q. Thanks, buddy.   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah. Played well this morning and hopefully continue in the afternoon, and you know, get some rest tonight and hopefully get a round in tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Bogey-free with five birdies. Tell us a little bit more details about the round.   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Played pretty solid. Made some good putts. Putted well today. So I kind of kept my round going. Made a really good par putt at 15 to keep the momentum going, and birdied 17, which is a good birdie today. Played good on the front. Just didn't hit it close enough.  
  
  Q. You've putted well all year. You're top 20 in the strokes game putting. Tell me about these greens.   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: They're good. They're in great shape actually. Just a little slow and soft from the rain, but you know, you can't do much about it, but they're still in really good shape.  
  
  Q. Knowing last night this was going to be a long day for you, did you do anything special, hydrate, extra sleep, anything?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Tried to get some extra sleep, but the night before I slept really, really good. So I had trouble falling asleep last night. But still got enough rest, and I think that's key on a big day like this.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT