THE BARCLAYS
August 26, 2010
Vaughn Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: All right, Vaughn, thanks for joining us. Good playing this morning. 6-under par. 65. If you could just give us a few thoughts about the round and then we'll open it up to questions.  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Thanks. Played solid today. Made a lot of key putts. And made some good birdie putts and just overall played pretty well.   
 THE MODERATOR: Pretty good stretch back nine, 13, 14, 15. Did that kind of -- the bogey on 3, did that jump-start your round and from there you played beautifully.  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah, I made a really good putt at 4 for birdie. And I kind of -- you don't like making bogeys on par 5s but made a really good putt. And on No. 4 the hole is playing really long. One of the tougher holes out here. Got me going back in the right direction. I made some birdies in streaks today. And it was just one of those days. I hit a lot of greens and fairways and made a few good putts.  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions.  
  
  Q. What's your standing in the FedEx?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: I believe 38.  
  
  Q. What did you think of the par 5s on this course? Any that you can reach?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: No, it's just playing too soft. 17, if you get a little roll-out and hit it down left you can possibly reach that. What's the other ones?   
  
  Q. 3, I think.   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: 3 --  
  
  Q. Cross mounds, right?   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: 3, you just can't drive it far enough. I think some guys could probably, if they hit a perfect drive, they could get it up close to the left front. So try to take a pitch.  
  
  Q. Is that good or bad?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: I think it's good on the third hole.   
  
  Q. Is it good overall on a course where most guys have an advantage?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: It's definitely an advantage if you can reach. The greens are so soft right now that you don't want to have a full wedge in for sure. So I like getting a little closer and taking the spin-off the ball.  
  
  Q. Do you feel like you had a day like this coming?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Not really. I've been struggling a little bit lately. Just haven't been hitting it very solid. Not playing bad, but my putter has been a little sketchy, too. So did some good work Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday. Felt like I was on the right track.   
 So it was good to get out there and get some confidence going.  
  
  Q. Change anything?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Decided to change it up for a few weeks. Get back with my old caddie. Needed a break, stuck in a rut, so just tried to switch it up.  
  
  Q. You were running pretty good after the John Deere, finished 6th, what has happened since then, the last couple of weeks?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: I had a nice stretch there for about a month and went out to Reno and just struggled with the altitude. Just couldn't figure out how far the ball was going. And played well there, just couldn't figure out the altitude, really and didn't putt my greatest, either.   
 So the last few weeks, just hadn't made a lot of putts, really. But overall my game is in pretty good shape. Just a few putts here and there, losing momentum.  
  
  Q. You won Reno twice; how can you not figure out the altitude?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: I know. I can't figure it out. The last two years. Just clueless. I don't know. It was just maybe I got lucky two years.  
  
  Q. Back to the 38, how do you look at that? Are you unhappy with that? Is that mediocre? How do you characterize it?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: The last couple of years I haven't played my greatest. I'm pleased with my position coming in and we all know if you play well the next few weeks, you can have a chance to win the whole thing.   
 So I think anyone who is in the top 40, 50 are pleased with where they're at. You've got a chance, you just gotta play well.  
  
  Q. The follow-up to that, do you look at these playoffs as a fresh start, a new beginning?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah, definitely a guy in my position, I have my card locked up, and it's just kind of gravy from here on out. Obviously want to finish as high as I can on the FedEx and the money list to get in all the majors next year and things of that nature. So it's pressure off, but also a little bit of pressure to reach your goals.  
  
  Q. You gave such a spirited run at Houston to get back to the Masters, how hard was that to get over, being so close and not making it?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: It was tough. It kind of ate at me for a little while. It was hard to sleep sometimes at night. You always think what could you have done differently and I would have loved to have had that playoff over again.   
 But at the same time, it was a great experience. It's always good to be in contention and be under the pressure and now I look back and I take a lot of the positives from it and I've moved on.  
  
  Q. Are you really tracking your FedExCup position how that can get you --  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Not really, just going through my normal routine, just playing golf. Trying not to get too focused on FedEx numbers.  
  
  Q. I have to ask why you left -- for years though you could walk around the course look at a leader board and see Tiger's name, almost expect it. Did you find yourself walking along at the board wondering who that guy was?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Somewhat, you know? It's good to see him back up top. It's been a tough year for him and I think we've all seen what he's been going through. So it's understandable. So many distractions. I think only he could deal with it. I know I wouldn't be able to.  
  
  Q. Were you surprised to see the name?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: No, not at all. I don't think anybody is surprised when he plays well. Just looks like if he tweaked his swing and made a couple putts he'd be right back in there.   
 So not a surprise.  
  
  Q. How did you bogey 3?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: I drove it in the left rough and had to lay back pretty far. I had like a 7-iron in the green and just missed it, short right, kind of short-sighted myself and had a tough up-and-down.   
  
  Q. Didn't quite follow what happened on 4.   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Just hit a good drive down there. I made about a 30 -- it was 30, 35 feet, and it was moving pretty quick. Probably would have went by good eight to ten feet maybe. Center cut, but it was just one of those putts you feel like you kind of stole one. So it was good to get the momentum right back.  
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Vaughn.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT