TURNING STONE RESORT CHAMPIONSHIP
August 3, 2010
Vaughn Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ADAM WALLACE: We'd like to welcome Vaughn Taylor to the interview room. Vaughn played here the last three years, hasn't finished outside the top 18, and as you guys all know, last year he was in a six-hole playoff. Vaughn, if you could just give some opening comments about how it feels to be back here at the Turning Stone Resort Championship and the golf course and how you're feeling going into the week.
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah. I'm excited to be back. Good memories, good feelings here, obviously; and really excited to see the course this year in firmer, faster conditions. And you know, love the golf course. It's in wonderful shape.
 You know, a great tournament here, and it's good to be back, and looking forward to the week. 
 ADAM WALLACE: Okay. Questions? 

 Q. (No microphone). What do you have to do differently that will be the key more or less?
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah. I think it's going to play shorter. Tee balls last year were pretty much plugging, it was so wet. 
 So we'll have shorter clubs into the greens, but the greens are going to get firmer. So you know, you gotta play for a little bit of release on the greens. 
 It's going to play a lot different. It's going to add a lot more difficulty in pin placements. You're going to have to work the ball in, use the slopes, those type of things like that. So it's going to be exciting. It should be much better.

 Q. Vaughn, how long did it take you to put last year's tournament behind you? Have you and obviously you noticed what Matt's done since he won, and Dustin's done since he won. He's kind of used this as a springboard.
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah. It took me a little while to kind of get over it, but at the same time it helped me lock up my card, and you know, it was a good thing. You know, used it as confidence. And you know, coming into this year, you know, when I've been in the hunt, I've felt a lot better because of last year and the playoff. 
 So it's been a positive, you know, all in all, and you know, still think about it every now and then, wish I had a shot or two over again, but that's the way it goes. 
 And Matt's obviously played really well. He was playing well before that, and you know, he was well deserving of winning; and yeah, it was good to see him playing -- I think he's probably, what, top 30 in the world now. So he's a good player, and good to see him playing well.

 Q. Do you feel like you have an advantage over the other players being the runner-up from last year?
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: I wouldn't say an advantage, but you know, inside, I think confidence is definitely high. And anytime you play well somewhere and you come back, you know, you have good memories, good feelings and things of that nature. 

 Q. Are there any holes that you completely change your game plan and it's completely different than it was last year that you've played so far this year?
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: I've only played five holes, so I'm kind of not quite sure, but you know, off the top of my head, I think the par-5, is it 12? That could be reachable, you know, much easier this year. I think they had to put the tee up last year a couple times and getting up there. 
 You know, the holes in the back, the par-5s are going to play much different.

 Q. Vaughn, we've seen some really low rounds, low scores this year, obviously, last Sunday with Stuart Appleby. Considering the changes in the course here, can a 59, can a really low score be shot out here? Is there a low score like that to be had out here?
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: I don't think anything in the 50s. You know, the greens have gotta be soft. And you know, that's the biggest key. I think if the greens are soft, you know, there's no bounce to them, you know, it could be possible. But it's totally based on the conditions. You know, the greens gotta be, you know, a hair slower, softer, and no wind. 

 Q. How are you preparing to adjust your game? Last year it was cold and rainy -- maybe not cold, but to this weekend being warm?
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: You know, you just go out and play and just try to get a feel for it. Hit some different shots, see how far the ball is traveling. And you know, you basically just through practice and play you get a feel for how it's playing. 
 And you know, we're pretty used to adjusting to the conditions. So it's just one of those things you get a feel for it as the week goes on.

 Q. What is it about this course that suits your game? The past three times you were in the top 18 last year.
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: I'm not really sure. Some courses you just show up and you just see the lines and the tee ball. You know, it's just one of those things that you just feel comfortable somewhere just because. So I think the greens are really good, that's definitely a part of it. You can make some putts out here because the greens are so pure. 

 Q. Vaughn, you mentioned about the differences in the conditions from late September to obviously now, we're in August. Can you just clarify, can you just say that again? What are the changes going to be like with this tournament going on in the first week of August as opposed to late September when it is cold and windy and a little bit more predictable? How is the course going to change?
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Well, first off, just being warmer, the ball is going to go a lot further. You know, when it's cold, you just don't hit it as far. And then being firm, you know, last year the ball was plugging off the tee, so you know you're going to be flying it 260, 270, whereas now the ball is rolling out, so you're hitting it 300. That's 40 yards, 30 yards at times. 
 So you know, the holes play much shorter; and then the greens being firm. You know, you just can't fly at the hole every pin, just go at it. You have to play for that bounce and the roll-out and kind of use the slopes and that types of thing. 
 ADAM WALLACE: Any more questions? Thanks, Vaughn. Best of luck to you this week.
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Thank you. Appreciate it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT