TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 26, 2010
Vaughn Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You seem to be putting together a string of good rounds this week. 
   VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah. I've played pretty solid this week, so if I can just keep it going tomorrow.

   Q. Tell us about your round today, what made it distinctive?
   VAUGHN TAYLOR: You know, hit a lot of fairways and a lot of greens. 
   Hit some good putts that didn't go in, but I just kept it in play, kept it in front of me and played solid.

   Q. Talk about tomorrow and your mindset heading into Round No. 4. 
   VAUGHN TAYLOR: Probably have to make a few more birdies out there than I did today, but you know, I'm right there, so just kind of keep doing what I'm doing, and hopefully those putts that didn't go in today will go in tomorrow.

   Q. We wish you the best tomorrow. 
   VAUGHN TAYLOR: Thanks. Been struggling a little bit lately, but there's still been plenty of good stuff. Overall things are where I want them.

   Q. Do you have a low number in mind for tomorrow? Probably going to be tough to catch. 
   VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah. He's playing well. Depends on the conditions, obviously, and pins are going to be tough. So you gotta play well and great iron shots so you can make birdie.

   Q. Can you take us through your birdie on 8 by any chance?
   VAUGHN TAYLOR: I hit a 6-iron in there about seven or eight feet, I guess, and just had a ball out on the right type putt. One of those putts you're always going after.

   Q. Can you just sort of summarize how you feel about your round? It was good. Do you feel it was good enough? 
   VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah, I played well today. Played a little bit better. A couple of putts that I thought I made that kind of went around the hole. But overall, you know, I played well, gave myself a shot and just keep going tomorrow.

   Q. What kind of position do you feel like you're in now? You're five back as we speak, but you're still 1-up on a whole bunch of guys. 
   VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah. I know there's a lot of guys within however many shots of me, so just one of those things you gotta go out and play your own game and try not to think about Justin. He's playing well. So I'm just going to try and shoot low and catch him. 

   Q. Thank you. 
 End of FastScripts



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT