SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 4, 2010
Vaughn Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MARK WILLIAMS: Vaughn Taylor, thanks for joining us. I know you're awfully disappointed after that playoff but coming from Augusta and all the implications involved for next week.
 Just give us your thoughts on the afternoon.
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Well, all in all, it was a good day. I played solid, played well, and I made a great putt, at the last before the playoff. I'm excited, but, you know, hugely disappointed. So it's a tough pill to swallow.
 MARK WILLIAMS: Let's have some questions.

 Q. Vaughn, can you just talk about the playoff hole.
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah. I didn't quite get committed and, you know, so many things were going through my head. Just didn't get quite back in the mode of playing. You know, 18 is a tough tee shot. I just wasn't committed and kind of just bailed on it. You know, just -- I don't know. So many things went through my head. Couldn't quite get back into the mode. If I had a little more time, maybe I could have gotten focused.

 Q. Were you surprised when Kim missed the first time?
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah, I was. He's a great player and putter, and I thought he was going to make it for sure.

 Q. What was going through your head? You said there were so many things going through your head at that time. What were you thinking about?
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Just the whole day, the whole experience, the Masters. Just all those things.
 MARK WILLIAMS: Was your caddy doing anything to try and keep you in the moment?
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah, he was. We had a good talk on the way to the tee, but sometimes it's up to us.

 Q. So you hit what off the tee? What did you hit off the tee?
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: I hit a driver.

 Q. You get to your ball, and what do you see in there for your second shot?
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah, I had a so-so lie, not the best lie, and had a little bit of a lip in front of me was an issue and, you know, hit a really good shot, just hit it a little bit right. Caught it solid. Carried the lip, obviously. Just a little right.
 MARK WILLIAMS: Anything further?

 Q. That last putt there, just kind of what was your thought process and what did you see there?
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: I was reading it to go just a little left and got consumed in the line and, you know, I know I got to get it to the hole. It's a must make. Kind of embarrassing to leave it short. Just kind of got tied up in the line too much.
 MARK WILLIAMS: Okay, Vaughn, appreciate you coming in. Thanks very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT