SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 3, 2010
Vaughn Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Vaughn, all in all, very nicely played. It's been that way kind of all week.
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah, I played good today. I had a lot of looks. Played solid, up.

 Q. 18, getting above that hole is death, isn't it?
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah. Didn't hit a very good second shot. You know, it was tough. I just killed it. Just got ahold of it. Not the place to be.

 Q. Talk about your ball striking. You only missed 6 greens all week. You got to be pleased with the way that's gone.
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: I've hit it nicely, yeah. I had the driver loose a couple times. Been hitting my irons great, had a lot of looks and hit a lot of greens.

 Q. Very much in the hunt on Sunday, and I'm sure everybody back home has talked to you about how important tomorrow is. Are you excited? Nervous? You don't show much emotion. What's the feeling?
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Little of both. I'm looking forward to it and nervous or not to be. You know, looking forward to the challenge and go out there and have fun.

 Q. More nervous to try to get there than when you've been there in once you're there -- by the way, it's a whole lot easy earnings, isn't it?
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yes and no. Not as easy as you think. It's tough to get back. Been a long process, and so I hope that tomorrow I can get it done.

 Q. Good luck. There will be a whole state and more rooting for you tomorrow. The nerves because of a chance to win the tournament, or is the Masters thing the overriding thing?
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Little of both. Nerves play a part in winning a tournament, but a week before the Masters, you know, it makes it a little bit more --
Q. How are the conditions different the first couple of days.
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah. The wind wasn't strong. It was coming from different directions. Kind of changed as the day went on. At the start of the day, it was the complete opposite.

 Q. Early in the day some thought it would be kind of ripe for somebody to go really low, and that didn't really happen. Why do you think that?
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: There was a lot of tough pins. Some of the holes played in downwind and playing longer, and so you have some short irons into a couple holes. But the pins were tough. They weren't real easy. The greens are getting firmer, and the course is running faster.

 Q. (Indiscernible)
VAUGHN TAYLOR: I looked a little bit.

 Q. Talk about the last one on 18 when you went long and you blamed yourself. It's a difficult hole. Can you talk about the playability of the course, you get what you earn, basically?
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah. The greens are tough, and you hit it in the wrong spot, you got a tough 2-putt. So you really got to hit it in the right section of the green to have a good look at birdie. It's a good design.

 Q. Tough as in fast or more --
VAUGHN TAYLOR: Fast and, you know, if you get on the wrong side of the hole, you got it swinging downhill type of thing. And so they're just -- certain sections, you know, kind of make it -- you're in the wrong section putting to the other section, it's tough.

 Q. Does the course overall fit your eye?
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: I do, I like it. I played some good rounds here in the past. It's just a great golf course. Got a good mix of short and long holes and it's good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT