SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 1, 2010
Vaughn Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   VAUGHN TAYLOR: Made a couple -- made a really long one on the 3 hole. One of those kind of a gift, and, you know, rolled the other once nicely. They were makeable, but it was tough.

 Q. Is that the key to your round today, putting?
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Got me off to a good  start. I hit the ball solid, too. I hit a lot of greens, just made a couple of bad swings.

 Q. Were you guys feeding off of each other?
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah, definitely. Just makes things easier when everybody is in a good groove, you know, everybody is doing good. You're not waiting. Good to feed off each other.

 Q. How tough was the wind?
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: You know, it got tougher as the round went on.
 A The last five, six holes it was picking up, and early it was fine. It was still blew a little bit early, but not like later.

 Q. Glad you played this morning?
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Most definitely. Always an advantage to get out early definitely, when the wind is mostly blowing here all the time. It's good to get out early.

 Q. How did you like the course?
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: It's great. It's in fabulous shape. Actually perfect. Playing good. The greens are perfect speed. Firmness-wise it's good. It's awesome.

 Q. Expect to be some low scores this week?
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Depends on the wind and pin placements and firmness of the greens. If it gets fast and firm, start tucking the pins, the scores won't be low.

 Q. I guess 18 takes a bite out of folks there and kind of spoiled what was a really good day for you?
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah, thanks. Played well all day. 18 is a tough hole. Got to hit it in the fairway there. Pulled it in the water, and you know it won't be the last time.

 Q. 31 on the front side today and I think lot of those birdie putts you had were like within 5 feet.
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Actually made the long putts. I made about a 20-footer on 2 and then probably a 50-footer on 3, and just one of those days, you know, the greens are perfect. If you hit the putts, they're going to go in.

 Q. Being an Augusta native, how much does that weigh on you with the Masters this next week in trying to get?
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Trying not to think about it, but it's hard not to. So just one of the things I got to stay in the present and try to take them one at a time and, you know, do the best I can.

 Q. Good shooting today. Vaughn Taylor, one -- the second threesome off. You had it to 6-under. 4-under on this course in these conditions, you got to be pretty happy?
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah, I am. I putted solid today and one of those rounds where could have been really good.

 Q. Could have been.
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: You know, that's the way it goes. I played solid and lot of golf left.

 Q. How tough are the conditions? It's a tough course without the wind, but the wind just blowing, two club wind, I imagine.
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah. In the last five, six holes for us, it was blowing pretty good. So -- it always blows here in the afternoon, so it was good to get off this morning. The greens are fast and firm. So the wind blows, it's tough.

 Q. I got to ask you most everyone knows you're a native of Augusta, Georgia. Of course next week is the Masters. You're not in. Is that something you're thinking about, well, if I keep this up, maybe, maybe a win, I'm in.
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah, it's hard not to think about it. When I'm out there playing, I'm trying to stay in the moment and just hit one at a time. It's hard not to think about it. It's a dream to play the Masters, and I'd love to get back there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT