TURNING STONE RESORT CHAMPIONSHIP
October 5, 2009
Vaughn Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Vaughn, tell us about the last hole here off the tee, what happened?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Just made a bad swing. You know, nothing more than that. You know, felt good; and yeah, just made a bad swing.   
  
  Q. Describe your disappointment here.   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: It's very disappointing. I felt like I had a good chance to win a couple times, and Matt made some awesome putts in the playoff, and he got a good up-and-down. He played solid today.   
  
  Q. How about your week overall?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: You know, it was a good week. I was trying to keep the card this Fall Series, and I think I locked it up. So you know, one goal accomplished.   
 I would like to have gotten in the winner's circle, but you know, maybe next week.  
  
  Q. When you're going through something like this, do you guys have an appreciation of what's going on?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah. Definitely. You know, we're going through the same thing, and the weather's tough, and conditions are difficult.   
 You know, it's just one of those things.   
  
  Q. Was wind a factor on the drive on 13?   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah. I mean it was a factor on every shot.   
  
  Q. Ended up pushing it a little bit more than what you expected?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah, I did. I hit it right, but I didn't think I hit it that far right. You know, just a bad swing.   
  
  Q. Describe the ups and downs going through this. Looked like he was going to win the first hole and looked like you had it on the second one.   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah. That was just a good battle. You expect him to make. It was just a good playoff.   
  
  Q. Your thoughts about the course, the complex, how you've been treated this week.   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: This is a wonderful tournament. I love coming here. The course is wonderful, pristine shape, and the fans are great. I mean everything about the tournament is fabulous, top notch.   
  
  Q. Just this morning the ebbs and flows, great stuff. You guys both had this thing won and lost a couple of times.   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah. It was a lot of fun out there. He got good up-and-downs, played well.   
 It was just one of those things, you know. I played well. Just made a bad swing or two.  
  
  Q. How cold was it? I mean even the difference between playing this hole the first time and the second time.   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah. It was freezing. It's gotta be in the mid 40s, I imagine. The wind's blowing 15, so the rain makes it even colder.   
  
  Q. The Georgia boys deserve a little warmer weather than this.   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: I agree. I played well in the cold weather the first couple days. I kind of welcomed it actually. It felt good. Just didn't quite get it done.   
  
  Q. Talk to me about the 12th, the putt there. Looked like you had it. I mean I think you had it dead in the jar, didn't you?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah, I did. I kind of knew it when I hit it. I felt I hit it a little bit short. It was obviously on line. Just didn't quite hit it enough. Downhill, you know.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT