LEGENDS RENO-TAHOE OPEN
August 6, 2009
Vaughn Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: I'd like to welcome two-time Legends Reno/Tahoe Open Champion Vaughn Taylor into the media center.   
You had a real nice day under difficult conditions. Can you talk about your round and how you played?   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah. I played solid today. Got off to a good start. I was like 3-under through 5 or so, I think, and made a couple of bogeys in a row.   
 Just kind of hit a bad tee shot there on 15 and 3-putted 16. But brought it back nicely and just played really tough out there. So I felt like I hit a lot of good shots and I made a few putts as well but played really good.  
 THE MODERATOR: Did you expect to play well just with your past experience here and the success you've enjoyed?   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: I was hoping to play well. I have a lot of good memories here and had just a lot of good feelings this morning getting ready for the round and yesterday, same thing. Just reminiscing, and just a lot of good feelings around here.  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions.  
  
  Q. You obviously know the course pretty well. Have you played a day like this with the winds, have you seen Montreux play like this?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: I think Sunday '04 was a lot like today. And it was very, very similar. It blew really hard and at times it almost stopped different places on the course. So that day sticks out for sure.  
  
  Q. You had a good day that Sunday. Is there anything you can take from the experience of, okay, this is windy, I know, on 16, 9, or what I need to do?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah, I think past experience definitely helped me out today. And the wind direction was pretty similar as it was that year. So I don't remember every hole, every shot type thing. Just in general. You've been there before type thing, so you feel comfortable.  
  
  Q. You had a good round last week at Buick, do you feel like you're getting a little momentum?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Definitely. Been struggling this year, haven't been playing well and last week I played really solid. So minus a few putts on Sunday, would have a really good finish. I felt like coming in this week my game's in pretty good shape and just continue doing what I'm doing.  
 THE MODERATOR: You had six birdies, two bogeys. Can we go over the front nine. You had four birdies.  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah, on 11 par-5 I hit it to about five feet with a 9-iron. And 13 I hit it to about 10 feet with a sand wedge. 14 I hit it to about four feet with a 9-iron and 15 I drove it in the left rough and 3-putted from off the front of the green. So that was about a 100-foot putt for my first one. 16, I 3-putted from 20 feet, maybe, and then 17 I got up-and-down for, I made about a 10-footer there. And No. 5 I hit it to about two feet with a lob wedge. And No. 9 I got up-and-down from the front of the green and probably made about 7-, 8-footer.  
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT