BUICK OPEN
July 31, 2009
Vaughn Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOHN BUSH: We'd like to welcome Vaughn Taylor in the interview room here at the Buick Open. Currently sitting at 11-under par after a 4-under 68 today. Vaughn, another nice day for you. If we could get some comments on your round.   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Thank you. I played solid today. I drove it really well, and made a couple good 30, 40-footers, kind of unexpected putts, but played well overall.  
  
JOHN BUSH: You've had some success here in the past, a place you really like. Just some comments on being back at Warwick Hills.  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah. I played good here a few years back and clinched the Ryder Cup that week, and it was a really memorable week. And all week I've actually been thinking about it, so good memories, and it's good to play good here.  
  
JOHN BUSH: All right. We'll go into questions.   
  
  Q. Talk about the mindset. You had two good rounds, 11-under. And yet it can't feel real secure at this point with the afternoon group coming out. Just talk about the mindset of how low you've gotta go.   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah. Definitely. I'm sure the guys in the afternoon are going to shoot low, too.   
 So you know, definitely gotta shoot over 20-under to win, barring the weather stays fit.   
 So yeah, just halfway there. We got a long ways to go, so you just kind of keep doing what you're doing and just take it one at a time.   
  
  Q. Vaughn, we remember you in Southeast Michigan from the Ryder Cup days, too. Can you take us through a little bit how your career has gone since then and maybe the highs and lows and where you're at now?   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: There haven't been very many highs. I've struggled pretty much ever since. Can't really explain why. You know, culmination of things, but you know, had a good tournament last year, again, had to putt to get into a playoff, but other than that week, it's been a grind. So really been working hard and just trying to get out of it, and I feel like I'm heading in the right direction.   
  
  Q. What part of your game has made you feel like you're turning the corner?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: A little bit of everything, really. I've kind of struggled, you know, I felt like all the way around.   
 My wedge game and my short game and putting definitely haven't been what it was a few years ago, so I feel like it's coming around. I made some putts the last couple days, and hopefully it'll keep going.   
  
  Q. Vaughn, obviously you talked about people going off this afternoon, but with the way Tiger's played this morning and the way he played yesterday, was he somebody obviously that you had to be mindful of, as you kept going?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: You know, he's always, you know, on everyone's mind, but when you're out there playing, you don't really think about it.   
 But I'm sure the closer we get to Sunday and the closer he gets to the top, guys always think about it. So it's just one of those things you gotta play your own game and stay in your own world and just play golf, and not worry about what he's doing.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about the 40-foot putt, what greens were they on?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: I made one on 13. It's a short par-4.   
 JOHN BUSH: No, that was 12.  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: 12. Made one on 12. And made a good putt on 3 this morning -- 2 this morning. It wasn't quite that long. I think it was 25 to 30 feet maybe.   
  
  Q. You missed the cut the last three tournaments that you played, so can you sort of pinpoint the difference or did you -- I'm not sure who your swing coach is or anything that you've done heading into this tournament that might have been different.   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: It's just really scoring. You know, I haven't been hitting my wedges close and playing the easy holes well. I've been making pars and bogeys on par-5s and just wasting a lot of shots, and shooting around par, you know, wasting a bunch of shots.   
 So it's just a thin line between hitting a wedge 20 feet and 10 feet and making the putt, you know. So I feel like I've been playing well, just not quite scoring.  
 JOHN BUSH: You had a nice one there on No. 8, par-3. Take us through that hole.   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah. It was just a perfect 6-iron. You know, I was aiming just 15 feet right of it and just hit a nice little draw in there and it landed about four, five feet short, and then had an easy tap-in birdie.  
 JOHN BUSH: And the only bogey of the day at No. 15.  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah. I hit a good drive, went down the middle, and I had 7-iron in, and had a little bit of hurt -- thought I had a perfect club there, too, and I pushed it just a hair and it ended up flying on to the back fringe and took a big hop over the green and just didn't get up-and-down.  
 JOHN BUSH: All right. Anything else? All right. Vaughn, play well this weekend.   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT