BUICK OPEN
July 30, 2009
Vaughn Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Do you enter this tournament knowing you gotta go out strong probably and put up a low score?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah. Getting out here, playing practice rounds, we saw the rough wasn't as high as it normally is, and the greens are receptive and these guys are awfully good out there. So any time the rough's down a little bit and the greens are soft, you know you gotta shoot some low scores.   
  
  Q. How do you walk away from this one knowing that you did think the nice approach and the birdie there on 9, too?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah. It's a good way to end the day. I played really solid today, and through kind of the middle of the round I feel like I left a couple out there, so made a long putt at 7 and then that birdie on 9. So kind of evened things out a little bit. But I played really well today.   
  
  Q. Everybody is talking about how soft the greens are. How did that play for you?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: You know, really good. You can wedge at the pin a little bit. If it's too much, you gotta control the pin, but longer irons on the green.   
 You can aim at some pins that normally you wouldn't. It just makes it a little bit easier.   
  
  Q. I heard you have a new putter. How new is it? Is it the first time you've used it or have you played before with it?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: I got it Tuesday, so it's really new?  
  
  Q. You're clearly happy with it. How hard is that to walk out onto a round one, play a practice round and then play a round and have it perform well for you?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Well, you know, I don't change very often, so it's new to me, but I had a handful of putters in the bag on Tuesday. I just kind of used a different one on every hole and when I got to that one, I made two 30-footers and I went to the next hole, same thing, next hole, same thing, so I'm like, you know, it was a no-brainer, had to throw it in.   
  
  Q. How would you sum up your year so far?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: It's been a struggle. I haven't played my best. But I feel like I'm turning it around. I've been working hard and working on the right things, so hopefully it'll come together.   
  
  Q. Obviously you came in (indiscernible), but after seeing the first round score of 7-under, does that change your approach at all? How do you approach the second round tomorrow?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: You know, I'll keep doing the same thing. It's a little early to change your game plan, but just try to take it one at a time and just kind of play your game.   
  
  Q. Why did you decide to change your putter now?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Just haven't been making a lot of putts. Haven't been putting bad. Just felt like nothing was going in.   
 I knew I was stroking it well, and sometimes you just try a different putter and if you're stroking it well, they start going in.   
  
  Q. Is there something that happened, though, that brought the change around, or just all of a sudden you realized --  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah. I hadn't putted my best this year. You know, not bad, but I feel like I haven't made some putts that I normally make. So just figured why not give it a shot.   
  
  Q. You mentioned over there, what were you guys talking about doing after today?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: I mean those guys talk about a lot of things, anything and everything.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: I wouldn't say anything terrible. It's all fun and games.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT