ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 27, 2009
Vaughn Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Tell me about the hole in one.   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: I hit a 6-iron in there, perfect number. I just took a little bit off of it and just flushed it right at it and actually didn't know it was in. All I saw was white, and it just disappeared, and I didn't know that it went in.  
  
  Q. You didn't know that you had a hole in one? Did someone else tell you?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: I saw the crowd's reaction and figured it out. It was a good shot.  
  
  Q. Kevin Streelman was in your group, and he said as soon as it came off the club face that even he said, oh, go in the hole.   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah, I hit it perfect. It was one of those shots that you just know it's right.  
  
  Q. It seemed like that got your round going because you followed it up with birdies at 8 and 9. Tell me about the subsequent birdies.   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah, I hit a real solid shot the next couple holes. I was playing well before that. I three-putted 6, which was kind of giving one away, but it just got me going. It was just something I needed to get the round jump-started, and I hit some really good shots there on 8 and 9 and made some good putts.  
  
  Q. This golf course, you see the wind is coming up during the second round. It seems to be playing even harder today than what it played yesterday.   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: It's hard to tell. Maybe the greens I thought were a little softer, and they seemed a little bit faster. I don't know how that is. But there were some firm ones, but it seemed like a lot of them were a little bit softer than they were yesterday.   
  
  Q. What's the plan for the rest of the day? You've got a lot of time to kill.   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: I'll practice for a little while.  
  
  Q. Walk me through the hole in one.   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: I forget my yards to the hole, but it was a perfect 6-iron really. I took just a little bit off of it, and the wind was just pretty much straight down. I hit just an absolutely perfect, right on line the whole way, and it landed about 15, 18 feel short and I think it rolled in like a putt. It was one of those that was perfect the whole way.  
  
  Q. What was the difference between the front and back side today?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: The back side, those last four holes, they're tough, especially 15 and 16, I missed both those fairways. I had a good chance for some up-and-downs there. I hit a good wedge shot into 16 to the back of the green, it was soft and came spinning back, so it was just one of those -- it's a tough hole, and 17 and 18 are difficult holes, as well. Luckily 18 is playing downwind.  
  
  Q. You've had a lot of injuries, a lot of things the past few years. Seems like you're really back. How much better do you feel?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: I struggle. I'm trying to get back. I'm working hard and just trying to figure it out every day. Got to keep grinding. I feel like I'm on the right track and things are falling into place if I just keep working hard.  
  
  Q. I know you had a tough time last week and you're playing well this week. Did you do anything in the interim?   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah, my swing I think was the biggest thing. I kind of saw what was going on, and once I saw it on film, I know why I shot what I did last week.  
  
  Q. What was going on?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Just really bad through impact. It was not good. Same old things, my tendencies, just a few things. Sometimes it takes seeing it on film and you have something to get going. I feel like I have an idea now and I was searching a little bit the past few weeks. I've just got to continue to work on things, practice hard, and I'll keep getting better.  
  
  Q. What was the Tampa experience like for you after putting up all those numbers?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah, it was not fun.  
  
  Q. What did you finish? Could you have just faked an injury and say my hammy is blown?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: I've always told myself I'm going to gut it out no matter what. It was actually funny; the last hole, I said, "I've never finished dead last."  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT