THE 50TH BOB HOPE CLASSIC HOSTED BY ARNOLD PALMER
January 23, 2009
Vaughn Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOE CHEMYCZ: Like to welcome Vaughn Taylor to our interview room. Vaughn with an 8-under par 64 today at the Palmer Private Course. Just talk a little bit about the scoring conditions out there and how your round went and we'll open it up for questions.   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: The weather is pretty much the same as it's been. It's hardly any wind and it's just perfect conditions. And played well out there today. Just made a few key par saves and just hung in there and played really solid on the front side.   
  
  Q. 22-under through 54 holes. And yet you might be two, three, maybe four back depending upon what Perez does. Are you amused by that or do you just go, well, it's the Hope and we'll see what happens after 90 holes?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Exactly. It's the Hope and the weather is good. The last couple years I played here the wind has been blowing and the sores were still low. But at the same time it was fun.   
 Sometimes we play such difficult courses and difficult conditions and it's good to have a change of pace where you feel like you can just go out there and aim at flags and make birdies and just have fun.   
  
  Q. 64 feel like a good round, an average round at this tournament?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: It still feels like a 64. It's fun. It's good playing. I felt like I could have shot a few better, but at the same time I think it was a great round.   
  
  Q. What were the par saves?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Par-5, 13?   
  
  Q. 14.   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah, 14. I had laid it up perfectly, had 80 yards in and just kind of pulled it and hit it over the green long. And it was not where you wanted to be. And I made a good 10-footer or so for par.   
 Next hole, I pulled it in the left green side bunker, or just out of the bunker and had a funny little lie. And I made about a 15-footer there for par.   
 So those were key. It just kind of kept my momentum going and I ended up birdieing the next few holes.   
  
  Q. You moved to the Nicklaus Course tomorrow which is new. Have you got much time over there?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Just played one practice round on it. That's it.   
  
  Q. Seem to fit in with the rest of this tournament?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah, I think so. I like the design. It's got a little more, different looks to it, and it's a beautiful golf course. It fits right in.   
 JOE CHEMYCZ: I notice on your back nine, the front side, you missed, you hit only three of seven fairways, yet you managed to hit all the greens. Does that indicate that the rough isn't much?   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Typically it's -- actually, I thought it was at its longest today on Palmer. It's getting a little hairy, but you can still, I mean it's just taking a little bit off of it, but not much. But it's a little bit long on the Palmer.  
  
  Q. With these conditions, do you tend to maybe be a little more aggressive, go for the pin a little more?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Most definitely. The pins are not tucked very, in the corners and things. So you can feel like you can just go right at them.   
  
  Q. Success? How often do you get where you're trying to get?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: What do you mean?   
  
  Q. I mean, you know, are you -- I'm probably not asking this well, but percentage of time that you can put it where you want it under such optimum conditions.   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Depends on how you're swinging, I guess. The conditions are perfect to hit it close. So if you're swinging well and driving it well, you have a lot of short irons in and can you take advantage of the par-5s, so it's out there.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT