GINN SUR MER CLASSIC
November 2, 2008
Vaughn Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: I'd like to welcome Vaughn Taylor to the media room. If you would start out giving general comments on your 6-under for the tournament, and then we'll take some questions.   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: It was really tough conditions out there. Just hung in there and made a lot of good par putts and overall just played pretty solid and hung in there really well.   
  
  Q. No "W" this week, but you just jumped up a ton of spots to No. 100 on the money list. So I imagine that's not a terrible consolation prize to not have that hanging over your head next week as Disney World?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah, definitely. It's been a grind this season. And, you know, I didn't expect to be coming down to this position. But it's good to get that job done and have to wait until Disney to get it done. And so it's nice to get it out of the way this week.  
  
  Q. There was a bunch of guys tied there at the end, about six guys when you went back out after the rain delay. Did you think it was going to take one or two more birdies to get there?   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: I did. 18 being a par 5, definitely, I wanted to make two birdies out of the last four. And just didn't quite put myself in the position. But I wish I had gotten one of the last.   
  
  Q. Did it just stay a little high?  
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: It did. I started just a little bit too high. And just didn't move at all. I hit a good putt and perfect speed. And I guess it wasn't just meant to be.   
  
  Q. Have you played with Ryan Palmer much at all?   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yes. Have played a lot together. We came up on the mini tours together. I think we're about the same age.   
  
  Q. I was looking at the computer at his stats, which, of course, don't always tell the whole story. It's hard to believe that he's actually won 40 something on the money list. Second in putting. First in birdies, like 30th in total driving. You kind of wonder where the bad stuff's coming from. Any theories on that? Of course the line out here is pretty narrow.   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah, it is. It's tough to call. I haven't played with Ryan this year. So I don't exactly know. But I don't think he's played in that many events.   
 So maybe the facts are misleading sometimes. But it's hard to tell.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT