JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 12, 2019
Vaughn Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You rode the elevator a little bit coming in, some birdies, bogeys, some up and down, but always nice to end the day with a 20-foot birdie at 9.  
VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah, that was a great birdie.  I felt like I needed that one after squandering a few away with wedges in my hands.  Just a couple unforced errors, just a little bit of learning there is all.  But played well today.  Played solid.   
 Q.  And you're making a lot of birdies.  I always think that's a good indicator of your game.  
VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah.  Out here you can get some wedges in your hands and reach the par-5s, so you need to make some birdies.   
 Q.  With the early tee time, did you see the course change very much?  
VAUGHN TAYLOR: You know, not really.  Probably by the end of the day it'll be firmer than it was yesterday afternoon, but it's pretty much the same.  It was really nice, good shape.   
 Q.  You have to be feeling good about your chances, about your game headed into the weekend.  
VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah, I feel good.  I just need to keep doing what I'm doing really.  I'm really pleased with where everything is at.   
 Q.  Talk about your round today.  
VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah, I played really solid on my first nine, the back nine, and could have gotten a couple more there, but front nine, just got a little squirrelly with a few wedges, which really isn't typical of my game.  Unforced errors really, but made a nice birdie at the last to kind of make up for one of those at least.   
 Q.  Kind me through the course; how is it playing, and are big numbers out there in the afternoon?  
VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah, there's a little less wind, I would say, a little different directions, so a couple holes were playing a little bit different.  No. 9 is playing really long and 18 is playing longer today.  Some of the tougher holes are playing tougher today than they were yesterday.  But overall, I think scoring is going to continue to be low.  The greens are just too good, and some of the shorter holes guys can take advantage of.   
 Q.  What's your mindset going into the weekend?  
VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah, I've got to just keep going.  I need to take a peek at the board.  Guys just keep making birdies, so that's just kind of what you've got to do around here.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT