MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 5, 2007
Vaughn Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   SAM NUNN:  My pleasure to introduce Vaughn Taylor who had a -- how many under today?   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR:  1-under.   
 SAM NUNN:  Great round.  Congratulations.  I know there was a lot of interesting challenges out there today and I know the news media would be delighted to hear you tell them about your round and particularly emphasizing whatever the most challenging areas were.   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Sure.  Thank you.  Start off general, well, I think the first seven holes, I didn't hit a green.  I hit quite a few fringes.  Just tough.  Wasn't quite precise with my irons and got myself in some tough spots.   
 But just putted really well.  I made a lot of good putts inside of 10 feet today and just kind of did what I had to do.  As the round went on I started to hit it a little better and started to feel comfortable and good out there.   
  
  Q.  How would you characterize the conditions, Vaughn?   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR:  It was tough.  The greens are very firm and fast.  You feel like you have a small bucket to land it in, and if you don't, you're going to have a tough putt or chip.   
 It's very tough.  You've got to shape your shots and really think your way around the course.   
  
  Q.  The notion that this was a year that there were not many changes, how would you assess the impact of weather changes as compared to the changes to the course?   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Being a little cooler, the ball doesn't go as far, and the breeze is picking up a little bit.  It playing long and hard.  It's usually a little bit warmer here.  It's been warm the past few days.  I think you get a little adrenaline going and hit it in the practice rounds, but for the most part it's playing long.   
  
  Q.  What contributed to the toughness?  Not much wind or rough; were the greens hard?   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Yeah, they were firm and fast.  It's just like I said earlier, it feels like you've got a little small spot on the green to land it in and if you don't land it there, you're going to have an easy putt at it.  Just firm and fast, the greens.   
  
  Q.  You mentioned adrenaline; how did that affect you in this round, as opposed to maybe last year here, your first time?   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR:  I think this year I kind of used in my favor and didn't let my nerves get to me.  I think last year I did, and understandably so.   
 I kind of used it in my favor this time around and felt good out there.   
  
  Q.  I mean, each time we've seen you this week, you've looked a lot more comfortable than last year, like maybe you were having more fun, where maybe last year you were overwhelmed a bit.  How has the experience been?   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR:  I agree.  This time around it feels a little bit more normal, like a been-there-done-that type of thing.  I definitely feel more comfortable.  I've come here so many years as a spectator and I think that helps, just to be comfortable with the grounds and the feeling of the golf course.  It's definitely easier this time around.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about playing with Gary Player and maybe any experience you've had watching him in the past and just getting out there between the ropes playing with him?   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR:  It was a pleasure playing with him.  He's a delightful guy and he's one of the game's greats.  I really enjoyed watching him play.  You can kind of see his old, you know, greatness.  It's a big pleasure to play with him.   
  
  Q.  Does he talk a lot?   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR:  A little bit.  He does.  We'll get to talking on the greens a little bit about a few things.  Overall we were behind a couple of times.  We were kind of trying to catch up and kind of doing our thing.  We talked a little bit on the greens.   
  
  Q.  You haven't had a lot of time to catch your breath here, but can you just talk about shooting 71 in the Masters after last year's experience?   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR:  It's a great feeling.  You know, I definitely wanted to play better than I did last year, and it was kind of -- it wasn't very good missing by one.  It feels good to get a good, solid round under my belt and get some confidence.  Any time you play a good round out here, it's good to get some confidence and know that you can do it.   
  
  Q.  On No. 1 there was a little incident with Gary forgetting his ball marker.  The crowd laughed a little bit and immediately after, you hit your chip shot and didn't skip a beat; can you talk about your focus today?   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Somewhat.  Out there there's a lot of things that can distract you.  It's like that every week.  You have to be patient and not let things get to you.   
 First of all, I was ready to go, and he didn't have a coin.  It's no big deal.  You just kind of chuckle about it and just be patient.   
  
  Q.  How are you feeling now?  You're in the media room at Augusta National leading the golf tournament in the clubhouse.   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR:  It's a great feeling.  It's a dream.  It's a good feeling to be here.   
 There's a long way to go, and hopefully I can make it back in here.   
  
  Q.  Are you nervous being in here?  Are you more nervous in here than you were out there on the course?   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Yeah, I think I'm about the same.  (Laughter)  A little nervous here, a little nervous out there.   
  
  Q.  What are the chances that there is a round in the 60s out there today, as it's only going to get later, probably harder on the greens?   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR:  It's going to take a really good ball-striking round.   
 You know, I could see a player like Tiger who can get some short irons into some holes and maybe reach a few of the par 5s.   
 I think he hits the ball high enough and spins it enough to be able to shoot at more pins.  Yeah, I think a longer player can do it.   
  
  Q.  I'm sure you've been asked these questions.  When was your first Masters that you got to attend as a spectator?   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR:  I think I was about ten years old, '86.   
  
  Q.  '87, Larry Mize?  Or Jack?   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR:  I think I came out in '87.   
  
  Q.  So you were here for Mize?   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR:  I wasn't out on Sunday, but I watched it on TV.   
  
  Q.  When did you get to play this course?   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR:  I didn't get to play until my freshman year in college.   
 SAM NUNN:  How about birdies today, any that really got you going?  How many did you make?   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR:  I made three.  I birdied 8.  I hit a good wedge shot in there and a big putt.   
 I birdied 12.  I think 12 was a big one.   
 I 3-putted 11 and was kind of debating on what shot, what club to hit into 11.  Could have pulled it wrong, who knows.  But 11, the wind was really tricky on 11, 12, as it always is.   
 I just hit a great bunker shot on 12 to kind of turn things around a little bit.  Then hit a really good wedge shot in on 15, too, about three feet.   
  
  Q.  You said you hit wedge on 12 or what did you hit on?   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR:  12, I hit 8-iron and holed a bunker shot.   
  
  Q.  What year was that you played your freshman year, and what did you shoot?   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR:  I shot 2-over and that was February of '95, I believe.   
  
  Q.  How long were your birdie putts on 8 and 15?   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR:  8 was probably ten feet, and 15 was probably three feet.   
  
  Q.  I'm sure you've seen enough of these press conferences on video or GOLF CHANNEL or something like that; did you ever think about yourself with that Masters logo as a backdrop and sitting up there?   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR:  I never really thought about being in the press room.  (Laughter)  Kind of visioned myself playing well, but I didn't think about the press room.   
  
  Q.  Is this the lowest you've shot in a tournament round or casual round out here?   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Tournament round, yes.  I think I've shot 5-under a couple of times in practice rounds.   
  
  Q.  From the back tees?   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  You mentioned Larry Mize.  I gather he didn't have a very nice day today.   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR:  I'm not aware how he played.  I'm not sure.   
 SAM NUNN:  Did you have some of your friends and family out there today?   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Yeah, I did.   
 SAM NUNN:  How did that make you feel?   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR:  It feels good.  They are rooting you out.  When I putted out on 18, I pretty much heard them all cheering for me.  It's a good feeling to have close friends and family out.   
  
  Q.  When you come in with a 71, do you start changing your thinking now about the week, or is it still too early to even think about what's in front?   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Yeah, it's too early.  We'll just have to see how the conditions change.  My game plan won't change a whole lot, though.   
 SAM NUNN:  Any particular bogeys that shook you up today?   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR:  No. 11 got me a little fired up.  But I just -- yeah, I wanted to hit 5-iron and I hit 6 and came up pretty short, and left the putt short, too.   
 SAM NUNN:  After that 3-putt, then holing out on 12 had to be a big thing.   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR:  It was.  Got the momentum going back the other way and it was good to come back on the next hole and birdie.   
  
  Q.  How big a step do you think this is toward the ultimate goal of winning this golf tournament in comparison to last year?   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR:  I think it's a huge step.  It's good to get out in a major championship, and especially here in Augusta, and shoot an under-par round when conditions are really tough.   
 So learned a lot out there, and got some confidence, as well.   
 SAM NUNN:  Vaughn, congratulations on a wonderful round.  Good luck.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT