ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 18, 2007
Vaughn Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  I don't know where to start, obviously it wasn't the round you wanted today.   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Yeah, it wasn't.  Struggled a little bit all day, and it was tough out there.  The course is playing really tough, and it just felt like you needed a perfect shot to get close.  Just didn't play horrible or anything, just didn't do what I needed to do.   
  
  Q.  Did you feel like, I know you talk about not getting in your own way and just play the golf course and stuff, at some point did you start trusting trying to catch --   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR:  I just didn't play as well as I needed to.   
  
  Q.  Do you have a conservative game plan knowing the course was going to be tough?   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Not really.  I didn't know the course would be that firm.  But as the round went on, you really couldn't aim at the pins.  It was a guessing game to guess how far the ball was going to release.  You really had to be precise.  I'm sure Vijay, I'm sure he hit a lot of great iron shots; he had to.   
  
  Q.  17, the putt, it was like a 2- or 3-footer, 16 or 17, that one there, can you give us an idea, what was your thinking there?   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR:  It was a left-center putt, and I aimed it way inside the hole.  I knew I was aiming it too far left the whole time.  I hit the ball -- it's one of those where you should back off and start over and just tried to go through it.   
  
  Q.  Are you aware that you were very, very close to getting in next week?   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Yeah, I knew I had to win or finish second or something.  I didn't know exactly.  But I knew every shot counted and I needed to grind it out.   
  
  Q.  Are you playing Houston?   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Yeah, if I don't get in, I'll play Houston.  I don't want to take two weeks off before the Masters.   
  
  Q.  Obviously you want to win, but what do you take from this?  This is a relatively hard test.   
 VAUGHN TAYLOR:  I've been playing well, and I'm not going to -- inaudible -- I feel like my game is coming around and I'm playing good.   
 Today was just really tough out there and just didn't get it done.  So any time you're around the lead with the last group, you always learn from it and you always get more comfortable and I think that's what happened.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT