THE RYDER CUP MATCHES
September 23, 2006
Chad Campbell
Vaughn Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  You were cooked at one stage and made a dramatic putt there at the end.

CHAD CAMPBELL:  There was a lot of big swings.  You know, I had a bad lag putt on 16, we should have had that hole won and hit a great shot in there.  I left him about eight or ten feet.  Should have got it a little closer.

They did give it to us on 17, awful nice of them, and I hit a good putt and Vaughn hit an excellent 3 wood.
Q.  You had a long wait for your debut.

VAUGHN TAYLOR:  It was a blast.  I had a great time on Sunday.  It was just a lot of fun.  Obviously we'd have liked to win the point, but it was great, it was fun.
Q.  Were you getting frustrated not playing or was he hoping to ease you into it?

VAUGHN TAYLOR:  I think it was easing me into it.  Walked around yesterday and just got a feel for the atmosphere and what was going on.  Today I felt more comfortable because of it.
Q.  You must have felt after all that's gone on, this afternoon was absolutely critical for you, at least getting a half point was something for you?

CHAD CAMPBELL:  Obviously we'd have liked to have won the whole point, but we're happy with tying it up there.  Vaughn played great the first match out, hit a lot of good golf shots out there.  Tomorrow we have to come out and get a lot of rhythm, so hopefully we can do that.
Q.  Looking for any motivational speeches tonight do you think?

CHAD CAMPBELL:  I'm sure we'll have a couple.
Q.  How has the atmosphere been in the team room?

VAUGHN TAYLOR:  It's been great.  We've been having a lot of fun.  Everyone is getting along great and having fun with each other.  It's a really awesome team.  I'm proud to be a part of it.
Q.  Must be difficult when you've been behind the whole time.

VAUGHN TAYLOR:  It is.  It's tough.

CHAD CAMPBELL:  Tom's done a great job.  And we just haven't been getting the putts in the hole, and that's what it boils down to.  Hopefully tomorrow we can come out and start to get the putts falling.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT