VERIZON HERITAGE
April 16, 2006
Vaughn Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
13 under cannot be ruled out, because we never know what the leaders are going to do coming down the stretch.  Job well done so far?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Thank you very much.  I played really well today and it was a real good finish.
Q.  You had a couple of opportunities, 17 hit that 5 iron in there, you had a birdie opportunity.  9 iron here on 18, stopped on the lip.  That could have made a huge difference, those two putts?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  I didn't hit a very good putt on 17.  And 18 I had a good putt.  It was downgrain into the wind, so it was kind of hard.  You had to be aggressive with it, because it was downgrain.  These last two holes are really tough.  You have to hit really good shots there.
Q.  What do you do now, you just wait until somebody posts 14 and then you pack your bags.  If nobody does that you go to the range to loosen up?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Yeah, that's pretty much how it works.  I think Aaron Baddeley just made a birdie to go to 16.  So it doesn't look too good.  But I'll wait around and when it's safe I'll pack up and head home.
Q.  Where is your schedule taking you?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  I was going to play in Houston next week, but I'm not sure.
Q.  He's not sure.  He has to see how many dollars 13 under par equates to.  Thanks for your time all this week.
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Thanks.
Q.  (Inaudible).
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  I didn't feel so good at the start.  I hit two bad shots on 1, a couple of bad shots on 2 and I ended up making birdie there.  But I just started feeling good after I hit a good tee shot on 3, it just kind of started clicking a little bit.
Q.  Were you looking at the score board?  Did you know that that putt was pretty big on 18, knowing 13 was the number you wanted?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  I looked at the board walking off 17 and saw that I was in third.  I didn't look at the numbers, I just kind of glanced up.  I didn't look until then.  I knew I was behind the whole way.  I knew I wasn't leading or anything.  I looked when I think I needed to and I didn't need to.  I knew I needed to make birdies.
Q.  (Inaudible).
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Yeah, it was a good week.  I did well the first round and kind of struggled in the middle a little bit.  All in all it was a good week and I had a great time.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT