VERIZON HERITAGE
April 14, 2006
Vaughn Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TODD BUDNICK:  I welcome Vaughn Taylor, 1 under, 70 today, 9 under for the tournament:

A little tougher day than yesterday, 63.  Tell us about today.
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Yeah, I played well on the front nine, and not so good on the back nine.  All in all it was a pretty good day.  I'm only two back, so I'm right there for the weekend.
TODD BUDNICK:  What was the difference today for you compared to yesterday.
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Just made some bad swings, I kind of got a little lazy with a few swings.  Out here you've got to hit it in the fairway, and I got behind some trees.  And you just have to hit big swinging shots around the trees to small greens.  It's tough.
TODD BUDNICK:  You didn't have a good day, but you're two strokes back from the leader heading into the weekend.
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Anytime you're two back heading into Saturday you're in good condition.  Just put it behind me today and just look forward to the weekend.
Q.  Talk a little bit about 13, the trouble you got into with the kind of weird situation?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Yeah, I hit a bad tee shot.  The tee shot started it all.  I kind of put a lazy swing on it.  I pulled it into the bunk irrelevant.  I had to hook it around the tree to the green.  The wind was blowing left to right.  I hit a pretty good shot.  I thought I had turned it enough, but the wind kind of straightened it out.  And I hit the wood planks there and just took a horrendous kick to the right.  And I think I had about 60 yards to the pine.  So I dropped it in some pine straw there.  It ended up working out.  I had a pretty good shot there.  I hit a great shot from the pine straw there.  Me and my caddie misread that putt.  I hit a good putt, but the tee shot kind of started it all.
Q.  You were near the 14th tee?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  I was almost on the bridge down by the water.  I don't think too many guys have been over there before.  That can happen with the wood planks.  They're at an angle.  If the ball hits them on the fly, they're going pretty far.
Q.  That's a great third shot, then?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  I hit a good shot, there.  I was just wanting putt for par.  I didn't care how long it was, I just wanted to be on the green.
Q.  Tell us about 14?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  14, the par 3?  Just pulled it a little left of the green there and just 2 putted from the fringe.
TODD BUDNICK:  Walk through the birdies, there.
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  5, I hit driver, 3 iron in the left bunker and hit to about two feet.

8, I hit driver, 8 iron to about 30 feet, made it.

9, I hit 5 iron, pitching wedge to about ten feet.

11, drawing a blank. I just hit a bad tee shot, kind of pulled it.  I thought I hit a great shot from the trees over there.  I tried to hook a 4 iron, keep it low.  I hit it exactly how I wanted to, it just ran.  I had a pretty tough chip, but the ground was pretty firm under the ball.  And I hit a touchy, soft chip shot, and the club bounced off the ground and just kind of drop kicked it.  I didn't hit it firm enough, and it broke off from me.
Q.  Does Easter hold any significance for you, and what do you have planned for Sunday?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  I really don't have anything planned, just kind of    I have friends and family in this week, so I'm sure we'll get together and celebrate, but no plans.
Q.  You had the putter going so well yesterday.  Could you even expect to putt as well today and did you fight it a little bit today?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Yeah, a day like yesterday I made a lot of good putts.  And it's just one of those things.  You make nine birdies one day, it's really tough to go out the next day and do the same.  I still rolled it well today, still feel confident with my putting.  I've just got to give myself some more chances.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT