TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 23, 2019
Vaughn Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Incredible back nine believe get some comments on that finish.
VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah, I was playing well all day.  Just couldn't really get it going.  You know, just luckily hit one in there close on 14 and actually hit the pin and was a tap-in there.
Just kind of got the ball rolling, got me going in the right direction.  I just hit a lot of quality shots coming in and made a nice putt on the last.
Q. 12-under.  Hope to finish top 10 at this point or Top 5?
VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah, I mean, I don't know what's going on back there, but nothing I can do about what's going on behind me.  I'm just pleased to get my round in.  I played solid.  I'm pleased.
Q. Chez had such a big lead going out.  (Indiscernible.)
VAUGHN TAYLOR: I saw 10-under was second; I was three back of that.  I was just kind of hoping for a good day and try to sneak up on some guys.
I know Chez is on form right now.  He played really well last week.  Tough to catch him.  I was hoping to catch the other guys ahead of me.
Q. When was the last time you had five straight birdies?
VAUGHN TAYLOR: I can't remember.  It's been a while.  I can't remember the last time I shot 29 either.  Been a while as well.  Especially on the back nine.  Never birdied the last five holes of a tournament, that's for sure.
Q. Talk a little about this finish and how it helps going forward here - pretty late in the season, too?
VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah, I been hanging around 80, 90 on the FedExCup, so nice to get in there and get some more points.
Had a lot of in-the-middle finishes lately.  Just don't get many points back there.  Hopefully jump me up a little bit and get me in better position for the FedEx.
Q. Talk about the newness of this and what you think of this place now.
VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah, clubhouse is amazing.  They did a fabulous job with it.  I know I and everybody else has really enjoyed it this week.
It's great to see it coming in here.  Just makes the tournament that much better.  It's a nice clubhouse.  We really enjoyed it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT