VERIZON HERITAGE
April 13, 2006
Vaughn Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOE CHEMYCZ:  We welcome Vaughn Taylor in, 8 under par, 63 with nine birdies today.

Vaughn, I guess you want to talk a little bit about your day and I guess it's probably easier playing here than it was last week and all the hoopla that surrounded you at Augusta.  Talk about coming into this week and your mindset and how it translated into a good score.
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Last week was very nerve wracking, very    it was very tough, actually.  It was fun playing in front of the home crowd.  It was a hectic week.

I came in this week and it just feels easy.  It's very relaxed, laid back.  And these last    I was really looking forward to The Masters, but I'm glad it was finally over.  This week I feel very relaxed and good.

Today I parred the first five holes, I think, and then birdied 15, 16, 17, 18.  I hit a bad drive on 1 and made bogey and came back with a birdie on 2.
Q.  You say you birdied 15, 16, 17, 18, that doesn't happen around here very often, is that what you thought, well, this is easy, I'm having a good time, and this is a new week for me?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Yeah, definitely.  It was nice to get it going.  It's been a while.  I played well at The PLAYERS, but it was totally different.  It was high scores.

But last week Augusta played tough.  It was good to get on a birdie train for a while.  It was a lot of fun?
Q.  You tell us it was hectic week for you, obviously.  Can you give us some example of what made it so hectic?  Were people asking after you, were friends and family wishing you well so much that it added to the pressure of last week?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Right.  Everybody kind of was pulling you in a different direction.  They want to see you.  They want to do things with you, and talk to you on the phone.  My phone was ringing off the hook.  You are asked to do a lot of things.  In preparing for a tournament it's tough to be able to do it all.  You feel bad, you want to talk to everybody and you feel bad, because you just can't do it.  It was tough.  But I tried to stick to my routine and do my job the best I could?
Q.  Do you feel like    obviously you want to get back to The Masters, do you feel now you'll be better prepared to handle what comes with it?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Most definitely.  I think being there, the experience for the first time, there's a lot of new things that are there.  I feel sure if I get back next year or whenever it may be, that I'll definitely be more comfortable and used to it?
Q.  Last week the Augusta paper made note of the fact that you went in the Pro Shop on Saturday, bought nine golf shirts.  Are you still on that, are you going to wear them the rest of the year?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  I'll probably wear them for a few weeks, and I might go in another Pro Shop and get some more.
Q.  Have you had to wash any of them yet?

A.
Oh, yeah, I washed them all before this week.
Q.  You're talking about everybody who comes here after The Masters, talks about it being a decompression and atmosphere around here.  What are you doing this week to take your mind off things and make you more relaxed for golf?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  I don't think I'm doing anything in particular.  I think after last week, experiencing The Masters and a major championship that wherever it may be the next week it's going to be a lot less going on and it's going to feel easier and more relaxed?
Q.  This place is specifically designed for that?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Right.  Hilton Head is a great place.  I love it here.  It's close to home.  I have a lot of friends and family come out this week, as well.  It's the beach and everyone is out having a good time.  It's got a good feel to the tournament?
Q.  Are they all out having fun while you're working?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  You could say that a little bit.  I enjoy working.
Q.  Obviously any win on the PGA TOUR is a good win.  Your couple of wins in the last couple years, is there any stigma that goes with that on the Tour.
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  No one, in particular, says anything about it, but we all know that it's a week opposite a bigger tournament.  I really want to win a regular event and prove to everyone that I'm not just capable of winning an opposite event.  It's definitely a goal of mine to win a tournament on Tour.
Q.  Obviously when somebody wins, they're probably looked at and accepted differently on Tour.  Have you been accepted differently with your two wins?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  I think so.  I forget who mentioned it to me, he said if you win once on Tour, if you win twice, you're good.  That's kind of funny, because you definitely earn respect the more you win?
Q.  You were on the Hooters Tour for how many years, and what did that Tour do for you?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  I played the Hooters Tour for probably four years, maybe.  It taught me how to play professional golf.  You learn how to travel and play four rounds of competition.  And unfortunately the Hooters Tour, it was a lot of bad weather and conditions.  It was a great learning ground, because you're not always playing the greatest courses, but you're definitely in some bad weather.  You're traveling a good bit.  It's tough.  You've got to learn how to do those things.  It's a good training ground.
Q.  Without that, do you think you would have been as successful in your first couple of years on Tour as you have been?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  It's hard to say.  I played Nationwide a couple of years, too.  The difference between Hooters Tour and Nationwide is really big.  It's on a much bigger stage.  I definitely think Nationwide Tour experience helped, as well.
Q.  Coming out, as still as it was today, do you feel like it was a day you could jump on this course?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  I think so.  The greens are pretty soft, no wind if you're hitting it straight you have a lot of short irons and wedges.  You can definitely score if you're hitting the ball well.
Q.  Through 6, you said you were even, what are you thinking at that point, thinking about getting something going?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  I was trying.  I hit some good shots, they weren't turning out as good as I felt like I hit them.  You have to be patient and just wait.  It's funny how they just    if you're patient, you don't get upset and you just go with the flow, it eventually turns around.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  According to the stats you hit only 11 greens.  Is that misleading?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Yes, that's very misleading, I think.  I missed    I don't know, it was probably on the fringe probably four times today.  I didn't miss any greens very badly at all.  Those were all putts pretty much off the green.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Take us through, if you will, with your birdies, starting the at 15.  What did you do there?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  15 I hit driver, 7 iron, sand wedge to about three feet.

16 I hit driver, pitching wedge to about 15 feet.

17 I hit 7 iron to about 15 feet.

18 I hit driver, 5 iron to about 20 feet.

1 I drove it left, in the left rough, missed it right of the green and didn't get up and down.

2 I hit driver, 4 iron in the front right bunker and got it up and down.

And then 4 I hit 6 iron to about 15 feet, made it.

5 I hit driver, 5 wood left of the green and got it up and down.

7, I hit 5 iron to the back fringe, that was about 15 feet, I think, made that one.

9 I hit 4 iron, 9 iron to about 10, 12 feet, maybe.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT