JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 9, 2004
Vaughn Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Vaughn Taylor, thanks for joining us.  Good first two days for you, 8-under and 2-under today puts you at 10-under.  A lot of players left on the golf course, but you've got to like your position through two rounds.
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Yeah, I'm pleased with where I'm at.  You know, hopefully Vijay won't run too far away and I'll have a good chance this weekend.
Q.  What was clicking for you today, Vaughn?  The conditions were changing by the hour.  What part of the game was keeping you in it?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  You know, I putted fairly well today.  I didn't do anything exceptional actually.  I struggled kind of mid-way through the round and then towards the end of the round.  I didn't do a whole lot particularly well, just got it home.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  What hole did you play after the suspension, 14.  You made double there.  Tell us what happened.
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  I had 95 yards to the pin.  It was my first shot after the delay.  I hit a terrible wedge shot, missed the green right, and it was just dead down there.  I didn't want to leave -- I had probably 20 feet of bank in front of me, and I had to get aggressive with it.  I didn't want to run it right back to me, so I knocked it over the green, had a funny lie and chipped it on, missed the putt.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  You seemed to recover after that with three birdies the rest of the way and no bogeys.  Talk about your state of mind after that and how you played the rest of the way.
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Right after I was pretty upset.  That was the not the way I wanted to start back.  You know, in the morning I felt really, really good.  I was really pleased at how well I felt this morning.  I was calm, relaxed, my swing felt great.  My stroke felt good, and coming back with a double, I was pretty upset there.  I was trying not to get down, get mad, just tried to hang in there.  I never really got back as good as the way I felt in the morning, so I just tried to hang in there.
Q.  That said, are you as happy with today's round for getting it out the way you did as you were with yesterday's 8-under?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Yeah, I think after the double, you know, after the rain delay, I was pleased with getting it in.
Q.  That's one of several chipping areas, probably the most severe that you can see on this golf course.  Do you like that facet of this golf course?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  It's definitely challenging.  It's something we see occasionally out here, and you don't want to be in those rough areas.  Some are not too bad and you can put it there, but that one is definitely the toughest.  It's good, though, it's a great design.
Q.  Did the greens become harder to judge after the rain delay?  Did you have to hit them pretty hard?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Yeah, they definitely slowed down.  I was having trouble with my speed.  I didn't want to get too aggressive and start running them by, but they were definitely slower.
Q.  How was the course playing overall, comparing yesterday to today?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Before the rain delay, it was perfect.  I liked the speed of the greens, the firmness of them.  They weren't too soft.  I thought they were really good.  After the rain delay, the course played long and soft.
Q.  How fast do you think they were before the rain?  They wanted to get them to 12.  Do you think they were close to that?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  They weren't quite 12 I don't think.  You know, maybe 10, 11.
Q.  Definitely firmer than yesterday?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Yeah, they were in the morning.  They were firmer.
Q.  You were worried about Jose running away with the tournament.  Do you feel like there is any type of scoring to be had out there this afternoon?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Yeah, I think so.  You can pretty much fire at every flag if you wanted to without having to worry about the ball bouncing.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  If we could touch on your round and we'll take a couple last questions.  You started on the backside, birdied right out of the gate, the par 5.
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  I hit driver, 6-iron, lob wedge to about six feet, made that.

Bogey on 11, I hit 3-wood, 7-iron to about 45 feet maybe, and three-putted.

Birdie on 13, par 4, I hit 3-wood, sand wedge to about a foot.

Then 18, birdie, I hit driver, pitching wedge to about five feet.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Then the rest of the way on the front side, par 5 2nd, and No. 4, as well.
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  No. 2, hit driver, 3-iron to about 30 feet, two-putted.

No. 4, I hit driver, 7-iron to about 20 feet, 25 feet.
Q.  On 14 did you hit iron or --
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Off the tee?
Q.  Yeah.
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  I hit 5-wood.
Q.  You said it was a pitching wedge from --
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Sand wedge.
Q.  How do you deal with your position right now?  Up on the leaderboard going into the weekend.  Is the learning curve -- still getting acclimated to that?  How do you deal with that this weekend?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  I'm going to try to do the same thing I did the last two days.  Hopefully I'll be more relaxed and I think more and more I'm in the position I'll get used to it.  Hopefully I'll feel good and just stick to my game plan and hopefully play well.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Vaughn Taylor, thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT