FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
May 28, 2004
Vaughn Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Vaughn Taylor, thanks for joining us, a great round of 66, with a 6-under, 65 today.  A little easier conditions, but probably not easy to go out with the lead and play that well.  Talk about your round today.
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  I played really well today.  I started off really solid, hitting some good shots.  Midway through the round I struggled a little bit, and coming in I started hitting it really straight and solid.  It was fun.
Q.  No bogeys on the score card today.  Talk about what's working for you overall.  Obviously you're playing well, but is there any one particular thing you're doing well?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Not really.  Yesterday I putted really well and today I hit the ball really well.  You can't make all the putts but I'm still rolling it really well.
Q.  Talk about going into tomorrow playing in the final group with David Toms.  It'll be your first experience on the PGA TOUR and you've done it at the Nationwide Tour level.  Talk about the excitement and also probably some of the anxiety of doing that tomorrow.
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  I'm looking forward to it.  I got a chance to meet David earlier in the year and he was a really nice guy.  He spoke to me, and I'm looking forward to it tomorrow.  I think it'll be a lot of fun.
Q.  Is it reminiscent at all of the Chrysler Classic, the first couple rounds there where you did well?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Well, you know, I feel like my game is a lot better than it was in Tucson.  It seems like forever ago.  I hit the ball well there, too, and similar feelings, but I feel like I'm a little bit further along, and I feel a little better now.
Q.  On No. 16, you hit the longest drive of the day on that hole that was in the fairway.  How much do you weigh?  How tall are you?  What's your waist size?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  32 waist, and I'm pushing 155 pounds.
Q.  How do you hit it so far?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  You know, I have no idea.  I'm not sure.  I hit that one -- I caught that one good.  I was a little pumped up.  I just hit that one really solid.
Q.  Do you know Peter Pugh?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Yes.
Q.  Is it true they turned on the tennis court lights so you could see to practice into the evening?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  I don't remember doing it with him, but there used to be a course we played at, the tennis courts are right behind the range and sometimes some ladies would play in the evening, so we were out there goofing around a little bit.  We never actually turned them on.  He might have.
Q.  What was your best shot and worst shot of the day?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Worst shot, let me think.
Q.  That's a good sign.
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  I hit some good ones.  On 14, the par 3, that's a pretty intimidating pin there, back right, and I hit that right where I was aiming.
Q.  What did you hit?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  5-iron.  And worst shot was probably second shot on 10.  I got lucky to end up where that was.  I hit that awful.
Q.  How do you mentally keep your cool under these conditions when you have huge shots like 14?  Mentally how do you stay smooth?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  I just try to really focus on what I'm doing and just not let my mind wander, basically.  I try to not think about what's going on, what's happening, just that it's me and the ball, and I'm just out there playing golf.
Q.  David started about six groups ahead of you.  Did you notice that he got off to a fairly strong start today, and did you pay attention much to the leaderboard through your round?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  I saw that he did get off to a good start, and I did see the score boards a good bit.  I like seeing my name up there.  I'm trying to get used to it, so when I do see it up there it's not a shock to me.  So I was looking a little bit.  I knew he was going low.  It kind of helped me to keep going because I knew I didn't want to be too far behind.
Q.  With these conditions did you have any idea what you might need to shoot?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  No, I had no idea.  You know, when you get out there and you start playing and you see how it is and the wind dies down, you know that you've got to shoot a low number.
Q.  So you knew there would be a bunch of low scores like there were once you got out there and the wind had died down?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Yeah, after the rain I knew it would soften up a little bit, and then when the wind laid down I knew it was going to be low scores.
Q.  What was your club with your approach on No. 16, the par 5?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  I hit 4-iron.
Q.  Who was in your group the Saturday at Tucson, do you remember?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Saturday at Tucson, I can't remember.
Q.  But are you more prepared now for that?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  I feel like I am.  I saw my teacher last week, and I'm working on a few things that I always work on.  It's kind of refreshed my memory a little bit.  I feel like I'm much better now.
Q.  What are you going to do tonight?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Just relax, get some rest, go out to dinner and just take it easy.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  If we could go through your round real quick.  Three birdies on the front side, starting with No. 3, the par 5.
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  It all blurs together sometimes.  3, I hit driver, 5-wood to about 12 feet, two-putted.

4, the par 3, I hit 6-iron to about four feet.

Then the par 4, 6th hole, I hit 3-wood, 9-iron.  I chipped in with a lob wedge.

13, I hit driver, 9-iron to about 12 feet.

15, I hit 5-wood, sand wedge to about eight feet.

16, I hit driver, 4-iron, I hit a bunker shot to about a foot.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Any great par saves out there that kind of kept your round going?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  You know, I don't know how many greens I missed, but I don't think it was maybe one, and I chipped in.  I don't remember missing anything besides that one.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Vaughn Taylor, thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT