FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
May 27, 2004
Vaughn Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Vaughn, for joining us.  Great round today under some pretty tough conditions out there.  Why don't you just talk about your day and any area of your play that might have made a difference today.
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Today I just putted really well basically.  I hit it decent, kept it in play and just basically made some 20- and 30-footers and chipped in on 18 and just kind of hung in there.
Q.  You mentioned putting.  Have you been working on that?  You played real well back in February but had been struggling a little bit in the last month.  Have you worked on getting the putter working particularly well lately?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Yeah, I changed putters a couple weeks and it wasn't working out.  And then I talked to a teacher of mine, and he told me to try a different grip, and I changed my left-hand grip, and it feels so much better and rolling a lot better.
Q.  Can you speak to the course conditions today, especially when everyone is coming in here and talking about how difficult the course is playing?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  It's playing really difficult, I think.  It's getting so firm out there, you can't shoot at a lot of flags.  You know, today I played to the safe side quite a few times just trying to land it short and roll it up pin high.  It was playing tough.  The wind is blowing pretty hard, it's gusting, so it's making it tough to judge how far it's playing sometimes.
Q.  Do you normally play well under these type of conditions historically?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  This year the wind has been blowing a lot it seems like, and I've been struggling a little bit in the wind and I haven't been hitting the ball real solid.  I changed balls, went to a different ball, and it flies better in the wind, and that definitely helps a lot.
Q.  From what to what?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  I went from the Callaway Hex Red to the new one, the Hex Tour, the black one.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Can we go through your birdies and bogeys?  You started on 10, birdied No. 10.
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  I hit 3-wood off the tee and I hit wedge to about 15 feet maybe.

14, bogey, I hit it over the green, hit it long right, and chipped it to about 15 feet and missed it.

15, birdie, I hit 3-wood, sand wedge to about ten feet, made that one.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  How long was that chip-in at 18?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  It was probably 30 feet.

1, that was probably at least 40 feet.

2, that was about 30 feet.

And 5, birdie, that was about 20 feet.

No. 8, the par 3, that was about eight feet.

9, bogey, hit 5-wood off the tee, hit it right where I wanted, went all the way through the fairway into the water, dropped it, hit it long and left and chipped it to about four feet, made it.
Q.  You live in Augusta now; is that right?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Yes.
Q.  Did you grow up in Virginia?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  No, I grew up in Augusta.  We lived in Virginia for like six months.  I just happened to be born there.
Q.  Do you know the current coach there at Augusta State, Josh?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  Josh Gregory?
Q.  Do you know him?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  I've met him and we've hung out a little bit, but I don't know him real well.
Q.  With the conditions being tough, and right now you're atop the leaderboard, talk about that.  Have you been on top of the leaderboard out here, or is this your first, and just the feeling of being up there and seeing your name there?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  It's very nice.  I mean, in Tucson earlier in the year I was leading midway.  I think through the third round maybe or so, but this might be the first time I'm leading after a whole round.  I'm looking forward to tomorrow.  There's three more days left and a lot of golf to be played.  I'm just going to enjoy it and hopefully keep it up.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Did you notice any of the conditions change?  You played late, one of the last groups off in the morning, so you kind of played into the afternoon.  Any difference between 9:00 o'clock when you started and just when you finished with the wind?
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  The wind was picking up.  It blew pretty much the whole way.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Right, I didn't know if there was much adjustment.
VAUGHN TAYLOR:  It started blowing harder for sure, but the greens were -- I could tell from the beginning of the round to the end, some of them were purple and getting baked out pretty good.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Vaughn, for joining us.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT