THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
May 30, 2019
Vaughn Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A little bit disappointed with the finish but overall a great round?
VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah, I played well today.  Did a lot of things good.  And unfortunately the last hole, but hit my tee shot there.  Things just didn't unfold right.  Yeah, played well.  Made a lot of good saves out there, kept the momentum going.
Q. How has your season gone, and is this something you saw coming?  Is it something consistent with what you've been doing?
VAUGHN TAYLOR: I've been playing well this year, playing consistent.  Hadn't been in contention too much, but I've been right there.  Just needed a little improving here and there.
But putting great, so putting is a big part of it.
Q. Did the wind do anything in the afternoon?  It was pretty benign this morning?
VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah, it was blowing pretty hard.  It was a good club wind most of the day.
Q. Career low round for here.
VAUGHN TAYLOR: Was it?  Nice.  I usually like it here.  I prefer fast greens, big breaking fast greens.  I feel comfortable out there.
Q. (No microphone.)
VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah, I got the qualifier on Monday.
Q. Where?
VAUGHN TAYLOR: I go to DC at Woodland.  I haven't had any success here at Memphis for many, many years.  So just to try to change it up, do something different.  And I played there years ago and I think I lost in a playoff.  I think it's the same course.  So I just saw that one on the list and said -- it didn't look too far from here, so might as well give it a shot.
Q. What's the last one you've gotten in by qualifying?
VAUGHN TAYLOR: That would be in '98 -- I'm trying to think.  I got in Olympic Club in '98 as an amateur.  I don't think I've gotten in -- I'm trying to think -- any other way.
Q. This would be kind of meaningful, having won there a few years ago?
VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yeah, this is definitely one I wanted to play in.  That's why I'm trying different qualifiers, to see if I can do something to get in.  I just want to get in.
Q. Have you ever not played a qualifier?
VAUGHN TAYLOR: Yes, I have, yeah.  Just too tired, basically.  Just grinding to keep my card every year and just decided I needed a week off, so I skipped the qualifier.  I've done that several times.  I didn't feel I had the game to compete.
Q. Is this about as scorable as you'll find this golf course?
VAUGHN TAYLOR: You know, just being soft, I'd say yes.  I've seen it firm and fast, and it's tough to hold some fairways.  It gets a little dicey on the greens.  So softness-wise, yes.  The wind was pretty good in the afternoon.  I can't recall the wind blowing even this hard.  But softness-wise, yeah.
Q. What is it about that golf course, if anything, that really gets you?
VAUGHN TAYLOR: I think it's the length.  That's probably the shortest course on Tour, and I'm one of the shortest hitters on Tour.  If I can get a lot of wedges in my hand and I can reach the par-5s, that's pretty much it.
Q. Did you make it Monday for (no microphone)?
VAUGHN TAYLOR: You know, I'll visualize that instead of actually going.  But, yeah, that would be nice.  I thought that was the end of it.  Went from the end to kind of the beginning, so that was awesome.
Q. (No microphone.)
VAUGHN TAYLOR: I love having them out.  We travel together.  He's my best little buddy.  I love hanging out with him.  It's a lot of fun.  Makes it easier.  A lot of time in hotel room.  So we have a good time together.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT