MLB WORLD SERIES: INDIANS v MARLINS
October 25, 1997
Jim Thome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Jim, the way that the American League Championship Series went, dominated by pitching, are you surprised that offense has dominated the World Series by both teams?

JIM THOME:   I think so.  Obviously you've got two great hitting teams, and I think offense has dominated it.  In World Series in the past usually pitching and defense win, and it's been totally different.  So I think if we're going to win this thing and come back and do it, I think we're going to have to get good pitching in the next couple of days.


Q.  How has the chemistry changed since '95, and also how is the team perceived and whether that affects you guys, in what way that affects you guys?

JIM THOME:   I think you're talking about a different ball club, where we went out and traded guys to get guys.  I think the players that we traded were superstars.  I think the players that we got in return were superstars.  And you know, adding Bip Roberts, you can't forget Smiley, even though he had the injury. All around, I think not only did we get good players,  but we got good people.  And I think it's showing here in postseason.  Everybody is willing to give themselves up and do different things to try to win, whether you hit 40 homeruns or whether you win 15 to 20 games.  It seems like everybody on this ball club from top to bottom has give even themselves up to win the game. And that's why I feel that this is an all around better team.


Q.  The last time you were faced with an elimination game, Game 4 against the Yankees, could you compare the mood of the team now with the mood of the team that day?

JIM THOME:   Well, I think it's totally different.  I think it's the same kind of feeling, but we know tonight if we don't win the ballgame it's over with.  We weren't supposed to beat the Yankees, not that we're supposed to beat the Marlins, but it's a total different atmosphere because it's the World Series.  We know tonight we've got to go out and we can't expect Kevin Brown to throw like he did the game before.  He's a quality guy that's going to go out and he's going to give you 7, 8 plus innings, and we can't expect him to have the same type of outing he did, so we've got to concentrate even more.  Hopefully Chad will come out and throw the same type of game he did I  think it was in Game 3 or 2 or whatever.  We just need to go out and play our game, stay positive and have fun.  I think this is a time you need to sit back and say it's draining, but it's also fun.  And we're going to try to do our best.


Q.  I see you're back in the groove with your swing after the Division ALCS, did anything change for you in Game 5, Game 6 of the ALCS that suddenly you found it again?

JIM THOME:   Well, I think I was swinging the bat in Game 5 and 6, in Baltimore, I hit that one ball that I think the wind knocked down that Brady Anderson caught, I think that mentally got me back into the groove.  In baseball you go through periods, and it was unfortunate that my biggest slump of the year came during the postseason.  As far as the World Series goes, I've tried to have good quality at-bats, and it's been working out.  Like I said before, it doesn't matter what I do personally, it's about what we do as a team and getting back, I think, that's why this ball club is where we're at today because guys give themselves up.  They really don't care personally what they do, yeah, if it helps win the game, great, but the bottom line is winning, and we've got to win two more. 


Q.  Jim, someone asked you about Game 4 against the Yankees, the fact that you guys won that and the subsequent series won a big game in Baltimore, does that have any bearing at all on tonight?

JIM THOME:   I don't think so, I really don't.  I mean it seems like a month ago since we played the Yankees.  We've been on such an emotional high that I think the only thing we can concentrate on is Kevin Brown and try to do the things to try to get little edges on him and try to do the things to score runs off of him.  If we don't do that, we're going to be in big trouble.  I think if we can go into the game and not get caught up into his gameplan and try to make him pitch the ball up in the zone and not swing at bad pitches on him, I think we'll be fine.  But you can't expect for him to throw a game like he did, because he's -- Kevin Brown is too dominating for that.


Q.  Jim, what did the team do yesterday?  How did you guys spend the time and did you get together as a group or individually?

JIM THOME:   No, I think yesterday was a rest day as far as -- we got in at almost six in the morning.  I think it was a nice day to sit back and relax and kind of soak everything in and hopefully today it will work out.  We've been going hard for a  month or so and traveling and you come out for workouts and I think you get so wrapped up into the ball games, that I think it kind of takes away from the fact of why we're here.  And I think yesterday was a good mental day for everybody to come out and say, hey, let's get the rest, let's heal everybody up.  I know we've had a few guys with a few nagging injuries, and hopefully that will work out.


Q.  What was the mood of the team after Game 5 and what types of things did you see in the clubhouse that make you feel that way, whatever you saw the mood was?

JIM THOME:   Well, I've seen the fact that there's been a lot of runs scored.  The first question that was asked is why hasn't this Series been dominated by pitching.  When you lose a ballgame you can always point the finger to different things that happened during the game, it can be the pitching, the lack of defense, it can be the lack of your offense.  We knew coming into this Series we were playing a very good team, both pitching-wise and both -- or offensively, and we can't get wrapped up into what they do.  We've got to do our thing.  Even though we lost that game, we put ourselves in the situation to tie it and go ahead. Like I said, I feel the big key for us to win it is  we've got to get good pitching these next two days.


Q.  So you felt good about the mood?

JIM THOME:   Yeah, we're taking it to six games.  I think everybody is excited, but yet we know we've got to go out and bare down tonight.


Q.  Jim, could you talk about what it's been to watch Sandy's season as a teammate because you get to see it every day and we don't, it seems like he keeps coming up big?

JIM THOME:   Well, I've been here when Sandy was hurt and I've seen everything that went on as far as Sandy is such a competitor that he plays 110 percent all the time.  And I think a lot of his season is the fact what he did last off-season.  We spent a lot of time in the weight room working out, getting ourselves physically prepared for this year, and I think it's all showing.  And everything that's happened to him is well deserving.  He's a great person, he's a great player. I think all throughout that family you look at his dad and you look at his brother, and I think the reason why Sandy is doing what he's doing is because he's got a good family and good people around him.


Q.  Jim, there's been a lot of focus on the strike zone in the postseason, a shifting kind of difficult to gauge strike zone, I'm wondering, is that  as disconcerting for a hitter as it is for a pitcher?

JIM THOME:   Well, I'll tell you, really to be honest, here in the World Series, I think the strike zone has been very good.  I haven't -- personally I haven't had any complaints at all.  When Hernandez faced the Braves, you heard about the big strike zone with Eric Gregg.  I haven't seen much of a difference all year long.  I'm the guy that's seen the most pitches in baseball, so I take a lot of pitches, and to be honest I think the umpiring has been very, very good.


Q.  Jim, obviously you're hoping to win the next couple of games, but given the amount of changes that your team made with Albert and Kenny, how would you look back at this season even if you were to lose tonight?

JIM THOME:   Well, to be honest, you would look at it and say we -- if we do lose, we didn't accomplish what we wanted to accomplish.  But also I think we proved to a lot of people that we could do it without them.  To be honest I really don't even like to talk about that, because we're focused on winning, too.  But if it would happen I think you would look back and we can say -- look at yourself in the mirror and say, I think every guy on this ball club has given  it everything they've got and truly, truly cared about winning, not only for themselves but for the people around them.


Q.  You talked about the differences from '95, was getting here more rewarding, because of everything that happened this year?

JIM THOME:   Oh, yeah, proving the fact that we could go back, even though we lost Albert Belle, even though we lost Kenny Lofton, even though we had injuries all year.  What's amazing is we're in the 6th game of the World Series and we don't have Jack McDowell or Smiley, there's two guys right there if you throw them into our pitching staff who knows what could happen.  But everybody is always going to say, well, if you do this or if you'd had this, and I truly believe that we've done a great job with what we've got.  I think our young kids, this has been very good for guys like Jaret, Brian Anderson, I think there's a guy that in some sense needs to be looked at.  He's done a great job.  And you don't see it in the box scores, but next year and the year after I think it's going to prepare them for this situation, it did me, it did Manny, Omar, Sandy.  And I think all in all I think this team's got a bright future ahead.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT