MLB ALL-STAR GAME
July 13, 1999
Jim Thome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Would you just talk about the first inning, Jim?

JIM THOME: It was great. Kenny did his normal thing and got on base, and I got lucky
and got a hit. It was nice, you know. It was fun, it was nice to get my first All-Star
hit, and it kind of -- I think Pedro really kind of dominated and got everybody lifted up
after his first inning, it was fun.

Q. How strange was it in an All-Star Game when you look out and see Kenny on second and
Manny on first in an All-Star Game?

JIM THOME: You'd almost think it's a regular season, because that's happened a lot this
year. Kenny especially has gotten on base a lot. And Manny has driven him in. I usually
don't get a lot of those situations with home runs Manny has driven in. It's really fun.
It's fun for all of us here, and everybody is having a good time. And meeting Ted Williams
was probably one of the greatest thrills I've ever had to this date in baseball. I tell
you, that feeling of being out there and having him pull up on a golf cart was right
there.

Q. I noticed you were first to get to him. What did you say when you met him?

JIM THOME: I didn't say anything. I listened more than anything, which is the way it
should be. Somebody of that -- he is just -- he's somebody that I think everybody in the
game respects, and to have him come here tonight and show everybody in the world that he
cares about baseball and he showed everybody here in Boston that this is what it's all
about.

Q. Beyond Ted Williams, sharing the field with the best players of this century, can
you speak a bit about it? Ted is certainly an inspiration, is there a player you identify
with especially? It must be something to share the field with those guys?

JIM THOME: I would say Eddie. I hit behind Eddie two years while he was here, and
really learned a lot about driving in runs and how to go about it, and just the way that
Eddie carried himself through the highs and lows. He never got too high, never got too
low. And I'm running out in the outfield and they're naming the names off and it's just
amazing. Kevin Costner is out there, it was like something out of the Field of Dreams.
These guys walked out and it's the best players that ever played the game. And here I am
running out in the outfield getting ready to play in an All-Star Game. It was tremendous.

Q. There was some controversy about the election of the four Indians' players to the
All-Star Team, do you feel that the Indians' performance tonight alleviates some of the
questions that came up?

JIM THOME: Well, you know, I think we've represented the All-Star Game very well. We've
been fortunate and we are fortunate that we sell out every game. It's one of those things
where you're always going to have speculation. And I think every player here is very
deserving, whether it be from the Indians or any other ball club. It's just one of those
things. And I think we represented the American League very well.

Q. Would you talk about seeing Pedro out on the mound and knowing there were other guys
that had to face him, not you?

JIM THOME: It was weird being behind him pitching, because usually I'm the one hitting
against him, and he's either striking me out or getting me out. He's dominating, he really
is. He is a big game pitcher and he rises to the big occasion. He's one of those guys that
when the spotlight is on him, he does a great job.

Q. Did you think you had one there, did you think you had one out of the ballpark?

JIM THOME: I really couldn't tell. I thought I hit it pretty well, but I hit it up
toward the trademark, and it was fun. I had a great time. I wish the ball would have went
out, but it didn't. I'll take the RBI single, that was nice. Just being here, just the
experience I think being here, when like I said before, Ted Williams was introduced and
all the guys that basically the best team of the century and all-time players were here,
it was just a tremendous feeling being a part of that.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT