AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: INDIANS v YANKEES
October 9, 1998
Jim Thome
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Jim, can you describe how much of Pettitte's ineffectiveness do you think was pitch
selection and how much was execution?

JIM THOME: Well, you know, with Andy Pettitte, you have to be ready. He's around the
zone a lot and personally I think they've been trying to establish their fastball inside
and, you know, I was fortunate tonight to get in some good hitting counts and when you're
around the plate, when you get in counts to hit in, it's -- you know, and you can put the
ball in play. To be honest I've had a very tough time with their left handers and to hit
the two homeruns was nice, but it definitely wasn't on my mind hitting homeruns. I was
just trying to put the ball in play.

Q. Did you think the 2nd one was out?

JIM THOME: To be honest, no. The way O'Neill was going back, I thought he was really
camping under the ball, and I don't know if the wind was blowing it back, but I was trying
to blow the ball out a little bit so it ended up working out well.

Q. Would you talk about the Indians' situation now, up 2-1?

JIM THOME: Well, we knew going into New York that it would be nice to get a split. We
got the split in New York, you know, the extra inning game I think was big for us. To play
a long game and to get that win and knowing we were coming home, you know, momentum to me
-- with these two teams, I don't think there's momentum. I think at any time the Yankees
can explode and run 3, 4 games off like that. For us, we have to stay focused tomorrow and
just try to do what we did tonight. I think the bottom line is, when you get good pitching
and put yourself in situations to win by having good pitching, it's contagious. Bartolo
did an excellent job. You've really got to credit him. He gave up a run in the first
inning and settled down after that.

Q. What were the problems in coming back from a broken hand and is the padding
something that was tough to get used to?

JIM THOME: Really, to be honest, the pad that they made me was never a problem. To be
honest, I think it was -- it felt like Spring Training kind of all over again. Especially
against left-handed pitching. To be honest, I really haven't felt comfortable. The first
week or so that I came back I was just trying to get a feel for it and -- actually, the
ball I hit off of Rivera the other day that he caught, I felt that my stance was kind of
getting back to that feeling of where I was before I broke my hand and, you know, it is
something about momentum. It's about getting good pitches to hit. And putting yourself in
good counts to hit in.

Q. When Alverez hit you, did you think at this point maybe you wouldn't be able to play
in the postseason, worried that you were done?

JIM THOME: Not really. Not really. At that time, it was early August and with the
broken bone, -- to be honest, it never really entered my mind. When I found out that I had
fractured it, my next step was how long is it going to take and I think the Indians did an
excellent job at bringing me the right way -- I could have probably came back in
three-and-a-half weeks but they -- knowing that September and we were going to clinch the
division, I think they did an excellent job and it's worked out.

Q. In light of the media coverage that has been somewhat lopsided, did the guys kind of
get together and say, well, we're going to show everybody that we really can play and that
we are the defending American League Champions?

JIM THOME: Well, I think this team believes in itself for sure. To be honest, we never
got together. We knew coming in this series that the Yankees have really been the team to
beat all year. Obviously, with what they've done in the regular season, for us -- going in
and playing against the Yankees, you have to bring your game to another level and the two
games that we've won, we've won because our pitching has put us in situations to win.
Nagy, you know, you look at the game with Nagy and Cone. We don't ever get in that
situation if Nagy doesn't put us there. And the same thing with Cone. He put them in
situations to win also. So, tonight, definitely after the first inning when they got the
run, you could kind of see the momentum. You looked in the bench, they kind of felt that
the momentum was shifting and Bartolo did an excellent job. He settled down and for a kid
that has really never been in this situation pitched an excellent game.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT