SPORTING KANSAS CITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
July 14, 2018
Peter Vermes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








New York Red Bulls - 3, Sporting Kansas City - 2
Q. Just overall thoughts on the match?
PETER VERMES: Haven't seen the first goal.  I don't know if it was off-sides or not.  I've heard different stories.  I thought we responded well.  We get back in the game.  Probably could have stuck a second one in when Salloi gets a breakaway on Robles.  You know, come half time, even us getting the second goal is good, but we have so many guys out at the moment that we just don't have enough on the field to sustain it.  Unfortunately it's kind of been the story of the last, you know, three or four games.  It's been the same thing.
But you know, it's part of the league.  It's part of the season.  That's the way it goes.  It will be nice when we get all of our guys back, which is still going to be a little while.
Q. It seemed like after the first half, you guys almost had us, but what is your message to them going into your next match?
PETER VERMES: Well, I just think that we have to be much more difficult to play against.  I think we gave them too much time and space on the field.  They were able to break through us on the lines, and they caused us a lot of problems with movement only because I think that we were reactionary, not anticipating.
I just think we've got to be a little different in that regard, and the other is that I also think we created some good chances.  We just weren't deadly enough, and they were.
Q. Anything specific that the back line did that might have prevented you from or --
PETER VERMES: Listen, I think again, we made it -- we got it in behind them quite a bit and we created some good chances.  I just think that we weren't deadly enough.  Daniel could score; had another chance on Robles, but we hit right toe on him, little chances like that, and then we made some bad decisions in and around the box.  I think we could have been, again, a little bit more killer instinct, if you will.
But I think the difference was, is they were, with the other two goals.  They were a little more killer instinct and a little more aggressiveness to get in the game.  Sometimes happens when you're away from home, too, though.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT