NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: STARS v DEVILS
June 4, 2000
Richard Matvichuk
Kirk Muller
Darryl Sydor
Scott Thornton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Kirk and Matty, how much did the Colorado series take out of you guys? How much jump
do you have left? How do you kind of get back and get going?

KIRK MULLER: Obviously it was a tough series. We knew that Colorado series would be
real tough, and we put a lot of emphasis into it to win that one and -- but New Jersey is
no different. They have battled their way to get to the Finals. And when you get to this
stage, obviously it is rewarding to be here and fight for the Cup and have that
opportunity. So I don't think we can use being tired or anything as any excuse. We heard
that some people said our team looks a little tired, all that. I think it is just the
style of the game right now. Both teams are playing. You are fighting for every inch out
there, and there is no space. But I think we still have a lot left in the tank. We just
got to use it a little better and get better results.
RICHARD MATVICHUK: I agree totally. When you get to this situation where it is a race
to four to see who wins the Stanley Cup, it is obviously -- I think the deterioration
factor and everything that comes along with it, it's put behind you. And it is a race to
four. And I think if you ask anybody in either dressing room if we are tired or they are
tired, they are -- you are not tired. I think adrenaline and everything else takes over
once you get into game time.

Q. Kirk, what is the toughest thing about playing the Arnott line? Is it their speed?

KIRK MULLER: I think they are a pretty balanced line. They seem like they have really
-- they played together for a while, and they really have great chemistry there. We see
them sometimes where they just throw the puck in areas that they know they are going to
be, and so you have to be aware of that. But I think they have shown they can play well
defensively. But as soon as the pucks turnover, they have a real good transition there and
they attack pretty quick. He obviously has good size, so certain lines in the League have
that chemistry, and they seem to have it. So we have to, obviously, be aware and start
containing that line.

Q. Scott, so much has been made of the second line not being able to produce points.
How much of that has been attributed to the fact that chemistry has been shaken up a
little bit with Jamie out?

SCOTT THORNTON: I think Jamie was a big part of the line just because he is a great
hockey player. I don't think that rattled the chemistry on our line or not. He is a tough
player to replace. We definitely miss him. And Joe and I have been playing with different
guys at times, and haven't had the results in this series. We didn't score against much
against Colorado either. We are trying to be effective in other ways, in physical ways,
and I think you have to give credit to the other team for playing a real tight defense
against us. And we are just having -- going to have to keep battling, keep fighting
through. We faced a little controversy in the San Jose series, and we finished well and
strong because we kept our confidence high and kept fighting through it.

Q. Darryl, it seems like Sergei Zubov had no positive impact at all in this series. Are
they doing anything to take them away, or do you think he's struggling with something that
he can do better?

DARRYL SYDOR: I don't think -- I think he has done fine. I think in Game 1 if you are
thinking about that, we were on the ice for five goals, I think in a row, but it is
everybody. It is just not one player. Zubov is an outstanding player, and I guess if he
doesn't get two, three points a night, maybe people think he is not getting the job done.
He has been physical, all being physical. It is something that Zuby has really picked up
is being physical. He is getting into areas, moving the puck. That is what we have to do,
move the puck. I don't see any problem in Sergei's game.

Q. Could you talk a little bit about sort of the way you are judged in the Playoffs?
After the first game, you stunk. The second game you are playing real well. After the
third game, you are no good again. How do you sort of deal with that roller coaster? 

SCOTT THORNTON: I guess the best way to do it is just to have confidence in yourself
and in our team systems. Obviously, there is nothing we can do about Game 1. Not many
positives we can pull out of that night. We rebounded strong. That has been sort of the
characteristic of the team. I haven't been here long, but it is one thing I noticed right
away is this team has got strong personnel in the dressing room. They keep their
confidence level high and they don't get rattled by situations like that. And I don't
think that we stunk the last game. I think it was a great hockey game and -- but we lost.

Q. I don't mean that you stunk, but that is the way you are judged. That is the way --

SCOTT THORNTON: I see what you mean, but it has been a rollercoaster and Playoffs are
like that. Much like the Colorado series, every game, the momentum shifted, not only from
night to night, but at five-minute increments throughout the series -- it could be
anybody's game. That is the way Playoffs are. Got two great hockey teams battling for the
Cup right now. The momentum is not always going to be our way, and the key thing with our
team is that we got a lot of mature guys in the dressing room that maintain our
confidence.

Q. Richard and Darryl, why have you guys been so good at bouncing back in the Playoffs,
and what is the sense of urgency of Game 4?

RICHARD MATVICHUK: Of course, we don't want to go down 3-1. Fortunately, we haven't won
a Game 3 yet, but we have always rebounded Game 4 and come out with a strong performance.
We have got key guys in our dressing room all the way from guys that just got here, like
Scott Thornton and Manson and Guy Carbonneau, Hatcher and Modano. We have got experience
that have been here before. Last year everybody that won here and that was here learned a
lot, and we just got a lot of experience that takes the key out of everything.
DARRYL SYDOR: I think just like Matty says, we have so much experience in the dressing
room, I think that obviously you couldn't like what happened the night before. But the
next day is a new day, and we realize what we have to do, and maybe we just play a little
bit more desperate, a little bit more under control, and keep it simple. Keep it
simplified and get things done. Maybe that is a part of it that we do a lot better in
trying to rebound to usually even up a series.

Q. Richard, do you see much difference in Jason Arnott now compared to when he was at
Edmonton?

RICHARD MATVICHUK: I think that whole complete line of Sykora, Elias and Arnott that
they are playing really well together. They have been together for over a year now and it
is just they know where each other are. It is just like if you look at Darryl Sydor and
Zubov, when you get used to playing with certain guys, you get used to knowing where they
are. And when they throw the puck behind the net, one of them is usually there on 3-on-2
or 2-on-1. They know what is going on with each other. Jason is playing real well right
now. He's got two skilled players. But we know the way -- myself and Hatcher -- and if we
are physical and we can shut them down, we are going to give ourself and our team a pretty
good chance to win.

Q. You talked about that line. Is that a challenge that you and Guy and Mike would like
to have; and if so, have you talked with Hitch about going up against that line?

KIRK MULLER: No, we left -- we leave it up with Hitch and our coaching staff to what is
best right there. Obviously, Carbonneau has made a living his whole career on those type
of challenges, all that. But it certainly is a line that we got to contain and all that.
We just have to find the right matchups. Whatever Hitch feels is going to be best for the
team, that is what we are going to go with. We got to spread the scoring out a little bit
with our hockey club, and at the same time, contain those guys. But I think it is going to
be a tight series from here on in, low scoring. And you are going to battle for every
goal. So I think it goes back to everyone loves challenge, and we have a lot of guys here
that would love to take it on. But it is important that we find the right matchup for our
club.

Q. Scott, third period Hitch changed up the lines a little bit, put Jere on that second
line. Do you see maybe that as something that has to be done with your line, struggling
with scoring? And what does Jere bring? And if you remember, on that same line, maybe that
could create --

SCOTT THORNTON: I didn't play with Jere in the third. Him and Joe were together. I
think Jere just has a little different aspect of that line. He's obviously a great
defensive hockey player, and that has been proven in the past. But he can create a lot of
offense in the zone. He's confident with the puck, and he's poised in the corners, and he
is not afraid to battling, get his nose dirty. It is much like the same things that Jamie
contributed to the line. So I don't know if that is going to be a combination or not. I
don't know what is going to happen tomorrow. It is like Kirk says, we leave all the
decisions with the coach, and we just trust in his decisions and go out and battle as best
we can with any lineup we have.

Q. Richard, Darryl, get back to Arnott for minute. He really seems to have taken a big
step forward. He's a bigger stronger guy than he was three, four years ago.

DARRYL SYDOR: I think maybe -- I am not sure if he is bigger, stronger. But I think
he's a lot more mature. He has played the game for years, and you learn from things that
you have maybe not done well and people around you, and he's for sure a lot more mature
and a lot more composed with the puck, and obviously creates a lot of space out there for
the other two guys. And he's a guy that you want, they want to have the puck in the
corners. That is where he does a great job. And to contain him, it is a tough task. But
there is guys on our team that want that challenge.

Q. Richard, Nieuwendyk, spotlight is on him. When you are with him in a locker room,
are you expecting a breakout game? We look and say after last year's run -- anybody could
answer this. Are you expecting a breakout game?

RICHARD MATVICHUK: I think we have all got confidence in Joe. I think just because Joe
hasn't scored 6 or 7 goals in the first 4 games that everybody thinks he's not playing
very well. Joe is playing very well for us. He's playing on the line. He's used to playing
with Jamie, but less playing with Scott and whoever else is thrown out there. They have
been a pretty good dominant force in the offensive zone. I think if you can look at the
game tapes and look at the way the games went, that Joe's line spent a lot of time on the
offensive zone. That is a matchup we want. When you can get guys like that with that much
talent, with Joe in front of the net making scoring chances, guys like Scott Thornton
working down low, I think that is a matchup that we want as a team and as an organization.
And I think Joe, he plays his spots really well. And I think just because last year when
he won the Conn Smythe everyone expected him to come in here and score 12 goals in the
first series. It is beyond that. He's playing very well for us. Just because he is not
scoring seven, eight goals in the series doesn't mean he is not playing well.

Q. Are you guys happy with the chances that you have, and what have they done
specifically to try to limit you guys finishing those chances?

SCOTT THORNTON: Well, I think, as Matty referred to there, we have spent some good time
in the offensive zone. We just really haven't created a lot of good scoring chances in
front of the net. But I don't think that is going to happen. As Kirk mentioned before
there is going to be tight checking games, and I think any goals that you score in a
series like this are going to be just scrambles and rebounds and chip-ins and screens and
tips, like that. That is not stuff that you can -- it is not execution. That is just hard
work and the willingness to battle in front of the net. I think we have got that as a
unit. And Joe, I think, has been creating a lot with his speed in the neutral zone right
now. And we just have to do a better job of bringing that puck out of the corners and
getting in front of the net, and as we said, that is not X's and O's to execute stuff like
that. That is just grittiness and willingness to battle, and we are going to do some more
of that.

Q. Kirk, (inaudible) -- not playing with enough sense of urgency. Is that something
that you guys noticed during the game, or even looking back now is that something that you
can see?

KIRK MULLER: Well, I think we got a big challenge right now, we are looking forward to
it. We are in a tough series. Jersey is playing well. Everyone knows what kind of style
they play -- play well defensively. They are a confident bunch right now. They are coming
off a big high from Philadelphia. And likewise for us, sometimes the word
"urgency" might not appear there or look like it is there when you are trying to
fight through a team like that. But I think we are as a hockey club right now, still feel
like we can go out and play desperate tomorrow night and we know how big and important
that Game 4 is. But like Scott had mentioned there, we are going to have to battle for
every inch that we can get right now and got to get more pucks to the net, create more
opportunities and all. That is just: Hey, we are in the Stanley Cup Finals. No one said it
is going to be easy. And I don't think any of us felt it was going to be at the start of
the series. So we are in it and we are in the thick of things, and we got a good bunch and
guys that want to do well. So we have always responded well in these circumstances in the
past, and I think tomorrow is going to be a big game for us, and I think everyone is going
to be ready.

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT