BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 1, 2014
Jeff Overton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Jeff, nice way to cap off the round there.   Can we get some comments?   
JEFF OVERTON:   It's always a fun little system.   And hit a lot of great shots and just kept getting some putts to kind of lip out and just couldn't get the ball in the hole, if I can somehow eagle that last one, get five points, it would be big.   
And I hit a great 3‑wood in there to like seven feet.   So crazy because it was like 282, 307 yards to the hole.   But you're downhill 20 yards and the ball goes so far here, the 3‑wood landed on the front edge and rolled out to be a perfect shot and hit a great putt.  
   
 Q.   Comment on your round as a whole.   
JEFF OVERTON:   I've hit it really well the last couple of days.   And it's just a matter of getting the putts to drop.   I've been driving it well.   And this is kind of one of those courses if you can drive it well and chip and putt it good, you're going to have some good chances with four par 5s, three of the four are reachable.   And you get two par 4s that are pretty‑‑ you can just about drive.   I was able to take advantage of the par 4s but I wasn't able‑‑ did horrible yesterday on the par 5s but we got them a little bit today.  
   
 Q.   Thoughts on the weekend?  
JEFF OVERTON:   Just try to shoot, get as many birdies and eagles as you can and stay away from the doubles.   Obviously the bogeys almost don't hurt you so bad, especially if you're making a lot of birdies.  
   
 Q.   Nice having a different format isn't it after the same thing every week?  
JEFF OVERTON:   It definitely is.   It's unique.   It's just a little‑‑ it gets you thinking a little more aggressive almost, because you can afford to go ahead and make, try to make the birdies and sometimes if you get it in really bad positions you just try to get your bogey because the double hurts.   But the bogey doesn't.   Couple of those here don't do you any problem if you make a lot of birdies.  
   
 Q.   How big of a difference do you notice in the greens this morning from yesterday when you played?  
JEFF OVERTON:   Not much.   Biggest thing I was having tough trouble with is the Pro‑Am, the greens were really firm.   And both these last couple of days they've been a lot softer.   So kind of had to adjust a little bit to actually get myself to carry the ball to the hole sometimes.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT