SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 10, 2013
Jeff Overton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JOHN BUSH:   Jeff Overton joins us here at the Sony Open in Hawai'i after a 5‑under par 65.   Jeff, nice round today.   You got off to a great start on your front nine and then you ended in great style there on the last with a birdie.   Just comment on your round. 
JEFF OVERTON:   Hit a lot of good drivers, switched to the TaylorMade driver this year, and I hit it right down the middle a lot and got it going, hit it close on my third, fourth hole, and it was nice having a couple tap‑ins to get going first of the year with the new nerves and stuff.   It's a whole new year.   I haven't felt any nerves for a month or two.   Nice seeing a couple short ones go in, and then actually really finally made a 12‑ or 15‑footer on the 17th. 
You know, I broke down‑‑ in my off‑season a little bit I noticed my bunker play is probably the worst part of my game, and I really worked hard on it, got a new coach, worked with James Sieckmann in the off‑season a little bit, and Craig Harmon, the combination of them, and I was working on my bunker play.   That was even after plugging in the face on the 18th, which I didn't even feel I could get it out.   So that was pretty exciting. 
I'm really excited about‑‑ I don't think I've ever shot this low here, never played real low here.   But it's been weird because I should play good here because all the other courses that are extremely windy I generally play good on because I'm kind of a low spinner. 
But I think I was a lot more prepared this year, stayed down in Florida, bought a house down in Florida, and spent my off‑season down there and just been working out, got a new trainer, and just been a lot more prepared, I think, to start the year.
JOHN BUSH:   Speaking of your off‑season, did I hear that in November you were engaged? 
JEFF OVERTON:   Yeah, there's been a lot of stuff going on.   Got engaged over in Italy, and then‑‑ it was pretty cool, pretty neat, special girl, and then just‑‑ yeah, and bought a house three weeks later down there because she's from that area, and everything has been rocking and rolling.

Q.   Why Italy? 
JEFF OVERTON:   Her mom is from there, and they have a place in Florence, and it's like her favorite place.   She used to go there as a kid, and it was just like the best place ever.   To do it anyway.   So yeah, I did it.
It seemed romantic, it seemed like it made her think I'm romantic, even though she says I'm not.

Q.   What's her name?
JEFF OVERTON:   Christina Zimmer.

Q.   Where did you ask her in Italy?
JEFF OVERTON:   Actually it was a place called the Piazzale where it overlooks Florence.   Got down on one knee right there, family was pretty close by, and then they were there to take pictures and kind of celebrate.   Worked out great. 

Q.   Is she here? 
JEFF OVERTON:   Yeah, she's here.   She's back at the hotel probably laying on the beach‑‑ no, I think‑‑ she's an opera singer, so she's got a little role‑‑ she's got a lead role coming up here in a few months.   She actually found a teacher and she's working on singing over at the Hawai'i, the college ‑‑

Q.   With the opera here?
JEFF OVERTON:   No, in a few months over in like the West Virginia area someplace.   I don't know.   Yeah, she's got another one in Florida.   They do them all over the place. 

Q.   They said the gusts were 25 miles an hour.   Was that hard on you?
JEFF OVERTON:   There was.   I thought it was a little bit less, though, than I've seen it all week, but I was kind of commenting on it.   A couple balls just really went far, and then it was kind of hit or miss.   It would lay down and come up, and it's kind of streaky, and even at the end there, I don't know if it was because of the way the trees are blocking it out or what, but I didn't think that the wind was like‑‑ obviously anything like Maui, as we saw on TV, but it was definitely still scorable, I think. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
JEFF OVERTON:   I didn't even hardly‑‑ I just saw a picture of a flag like bent over almost touching the ground, like is that even possible? 

Q.   (Inaudible) free agent contracts and kind of want to show that they were worth making that move.   You changed manufacturers for the off‑season.   Do you kind of want to get off to a big start to prove to them (inaudible)? 
JEFF OVERTON:   You know, I don't know.   There's no hidden thing.   Cleveland golf was great to me.   It was actually pretty hard to really make the switch because they were so great, and I really liked their stuff.   But at the end of the day, it was‑‑ I felt like I wanted to get into the Adams and the TaylorMade driver, and it allowed me some more flexibility with my wedges.   I mean, I don't know, I look at my wedge play as kind of my problem guest strength, and then in 2010 I think I was top 3 from inside 100 yards or so, and that allows me to go back to using my wedges that I worked, that I was using then, and at the same time get into a hybrid that's awesome.   That thing goes further than anything I've seen.   I'm going to be able to add a little loft and still get the same distance.   I'm really excited about working on those here, and this next week when we get back to mainland they can get the equipment to fit right.
I just think it's going to be a better‑‑ at the end of the day it's just a better fit, not saying that Cleveland was bad.   They were awesome.   And I felt horrible even switching.   But at the same time try to go with the little small things.   It's just details, small details, trying to get better at.

Q.   Are you saying you have equipment in the bag right now that's not perfectly fit for you?
JEFF OVERTON:   Not at all.   No, the equipment I have in my bag is perfect for me.   It's absolutely awesome.   I'm going to get some Adams hybrids that are going to be even better. 

Q.   What's the goal for this season? 
JEFF OVERTON:   I mean, obviously the goal is to get a win, first thing.   I haven't won, and like get the monkey off your back.   That's my biggest goal, and more so I think it just comes from taking every shot‑‑ hit as good of a shot as you can every time and play every single hole like it's to win the Masters or to win a major whenever you're in that position to win, that nothing has changed.

Q.   Do the goals change now that you're engaged?
JEFF OVERTON:   Not at all.   Life is just good.   There's a different phase of life, and just an exciting time, and just nothing really feels a whole lot different, just nice and relaxing. 
JOHN BUSH:   Jeff, great start to the tournament.   Thanks for stopping by. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT