FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 7, 2012
Jeff Overton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.   Jeff, 3-under, good score in the opening round and let's start with the eagle at 16.   Tell us about that.
JEFF OVERTON:   You know, I was hitting my driver great all day and punched it right down the middle aggressively and left about a 5-iron in.   A big drive.   Hit a perfect 5-iron and had about 25 feet.   The next thing I know, somehow that thing went in.   It was pretty exciting.

Q.   Conditions out there today, lot of guys saying pretty tough out there with the wind, the course playing tough.   What are your thoughts?
JEFF OVERTON:   The wind is swirling and there's a lot of little water hazards.   The greens are firm.   If you miss a fairway, you're left with some really tough, weird shots.   And it's a great little golf course.   If you can hit the fairway and keep in it play and make some putts, you can do well here.

Q.   Thoughts on how you're playing now?   You went through that stretch where you had a couple of top 5s, transition in Houston.   You've been playing a lot lately.   How is your game right now?
JEFF OVERTON:   My game is as good as it's ever been.   It was tough for those little few weeks.   I had a little injury, had to get a shot, cortisone shot, in my collar bone the week of The Players and just kind of dealing with fighting through it, trying to get in the Top 60 for the U.S. Open. 
Been kind of a struggle for a few weeks kind of mentally, moreso because I'm playing every single week, it seems like.   And finally everything seems like it's calmed down over last few days, and just real excited to be here in Memphis and support this St. Jude's clarity. 
It's an awesome organization and have a chance to play with some of the -- saw one of kids out here the other day.   Almost started crying.   It's amazing what they're doing for this place and for St. Jude and the kids that are there.

Q.   Good stuff today.   Good luck the rest of the week.
JEFF OVERTON:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT