TRANSITIONS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 18, 2012
Jeff Overton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Pretty good playing, not enough to win but solid tournament for you. 
JEFF OVERTON:   I hit it excellent.   It was crazy, the last couple of weeks, my putter, I had been really working on it.   Hit a lot of good putts this week but just didn't make anything.   Had probably one of best ball‑striking rounds, tournaments, I think I've had in my career out here.   So that was exciting. 

Q.   Anything you're doing different?   You're working hard at your game but anything different the last couple of weeks to warrant the good play?
JEFF OVERTON:   I've been working on my wedge play.   This new Cleveland wedge, it's like forged or whatever and it's been awesome.   I've been wedging the ball really well.   I think that's been leading to shorter putts and being able to get the ball up‑and‑down around the hole.   I don't know, this forged Cleveland 588, it's awesome. 

Q.   You sort of made the turn and you were right there, can you just take me through the back side and tell me, any missed opportunities or anything?   Did you have a number that you probably needed to get to? 
JEFF OVERTON:   I knew 12 was already in the clubhouse.   So I knew that I needed to at least get to 13.   You know, 10, the wind was just swirling all over the place.   Played 10 into the wind, on my second shot, and somehow on 15, or 14, it's blowing straight downwind.   So it's kind of crazy.   The wind is going back and forth. 
I knew I had to get to at least 13.   I figured 13 would probably be maybe the playoff, whatever, who knows.   I was just trying to make putts and hit as good of shots as I possibly could.   I just hit a great couple putts on 13 and 14 both, that just didn't quite go in, and then on the par3, I tried to make a long putt and ran it by the hole.   Had a tricky one coming back.   Otherwise, I played good.   Had an awesome down on 17. 

Q.   Pretty awesome save. 
JEFF OVERTON:   Yeah.   Just really had a good tournament.   It's amazing how the PGA TOUR, it's the best tour in the world by far.   I don't know, if I was playing in Europe, it would probably be good enough to win. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT