PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY SEEPUERTORICO.COM
March 8, 2012
Jeff Overton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Talk about your round and what worked well for you today.   
JEFF OVERTON:   You know, it was hard.   A lot of winds, and hit some really good shots, I hit it really well, I just ruined this play my third hole.   I hit a ball to the right and went in the water and made double, missed a 3‑footer a couple of holes later, 2‑over and then missed a short birdie putt, and I'm‑‑ it was a weird round, like the first seven holes I could have been 2‑under and I was 2‑over ‑‑ or even 3‑under and I'm 2‑over, and I thought, let's just hang in there and keep it together, because it's hard out there.   
No. 18 was my 9th hole, and I hit a great shot on the second hole and almost made eagle, then got lucky and made a 25‑footer on the next hole for birdie.   Then I was able to just keep hanging in there; I chipped it, like on the par 5, for birdie to get to 2‑under, and I'm like, you know, if I can get it to 3‑under, it would have been a really great round, I felt.   
Just having to double bogey early in the round, it set me back, and I birdied No. 1 and almost 2, and I felt like if I could get to 3‑under as far as the play, I would be right there in it for the rest of the week.   
I wanted to birdie the last few holes, hit some good shots, didn't make any putts and then on the last hole it was so weird how I hit a 7‑iron and made it for eagle.   
It's the kind things that you like to have happen because they don't happen very often.   
   
 Q.   What was your distance on that?   
JEFF OVERTON:   146 or 147, and I hit a 7‑iron and wind was howling off the right, and I started 25 yards right of the hole, and I hit a draw and I thinned it just a little bit which kept the ball down, otherwise I think the ball would have overhooked and went in the bunker.   I really was just hoping it was going to be somewhat close, and the thing came down and just one‑hopper in the hole.   I didn't know it went in, because you couldn't see it.   Once I find out it was in, it was pretty exciting!   
   
 Q.   So 2010 was a big year for you.   Last year do you feel like you were putting too much pressure on yourself to get that first win?   
JEFF OVERTON:   Yeah, because the year before I was playing really well, and even last year I felt like I played a good year, made $2 million worldwide.   I just put way too much pressure‑‑ you know, it's such a game that you've got to let it happen, and I put way too much pressure on myself and I wasn't able to make those 10‑footers, 5‑ to 12‑foot birdie putts and stuff.   
Maybe I didn't keep my‑‑ maybe I lost my patience a little bit, because I was hoping that the ball would go in the hole rather than just staying patient and making sure you kept the good strokes on it time and time again.   
So it was definitely frustrating and then I also played the WCG events where I hadn't seen the golf courses, so that was a new thing, because it's easier once you get to the courses and you've seen 'em a few times.   Going out and playing the course the first time is sometimes difficult.   
   
 Q.   You're an Indiana guy.   Peyton Manning, got any thoughts on that news yesterday?   
JEFF OVERTON:   It was awesome to see what the guy did for the whole state of Indiana for‑‑ especially in the Indianapolis area.   They probably wouldn't have had the Super Bowl and the Lucas Stadium, such an awesome facility.   
I understand both sides.   It's one of those things, it's like Tiger Woods with the game of golf.   I mean, people are like, holy cow, how does he make $100,000,000 a few years ago?   Well, if you seen him every time you come out to the golf course, look at the crowds when he's not there, and look at the crowds when he's there, and last week, I don't think I've seen that many people out on a course like that.   
You can't put a price tag on greatness, and when you have perhaps the greatest quarterback of all time, and this injury could keep him from going down as that.   It's hard to justify not paying him the money that you know he probably deserves, but at the same time, you know, you're trying to rebuild a program and you have no idea if the guy is going to be able to produce like he did.   
It's one of those things, do you start over and‑‑ whatever Jim Merced did, he did it because it's a business and at the same time it's really tough to see him leave.   You know, we wish him the best and I'm sure that‑‑ I just hope that the injury doesn't affect the rest of his career, because he's an awesome player and it would be really‑‑ it would be great to see him go off and do well somewhere else.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT