AT&T NATIONAL
July 2, 2010
Jeff Overton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   NELSON SILVERIO: We welcome Jeff Overton to the AT&T National media center. You put yourself right in contention. Give us some general thoughts on your round. 
 JEFF OVERTON: You know, it wasn't quite as up and down as yesterday. It was a little bit more -- a few more fairways hit, and the times I didn't, I was able to kind of get it on the green a little bit more. I didn't have as many great opportunities for birdie, but at the same time, I had a bunch of putts from 15, 20 feet roll over the edge, and any time you're doing that, you're knocking at the door. 

 Q. What did you make of the conditions, and do you think the course will get harder over the weekend?
 JEFF OVERTON: I think it can do nothing but get harder, unless they just dump water on the greens, which I think they were definitely softer this morning. I was like one of the last groups done yesterday, and with the wind blowing all day, and the temperature is just perfect to kind of let them get a little bit hard without having to worry about losing them. 
 If you're not in the fairway, you're pretty much not holding the greens. I've kind of had that philosophy, kind of try to bomb it down there, don't hit so many 3-woods and try to gouge it out and run up there. 

 Q. Considering the way this course is playing, do you feel pretty good at 4-under?
 JEFF OVERTON: Yeah, I mean, the afternoon probably will play a little bit easier just because the wind, I think, might lay down. But if it happens it'll probably play just a smidge easier. But the course is tough. Like I said, if you miss the fairways you're in some pretty bad trouble, and if you hit the fairways the ball is running enough where you're hitting some short irons in and you can make some birdies.

 Q. You've had a pretty good run these last two, three months. Is there something you can sort of pinpoint in that stretch?
 JEFF OVERTON: I just think that just getting a lot more comfortable out here. The first couple years you're so young and right out of college, and I felt like I was good but I really didn't -- I was like, am I good or am I just kind of lucky to be out here? And after five years of really playing a lot of these courses and understanding how to play the courses and just learning how to handle yourself emotionally in a lot of situations, I feel like I'm 95 percent more mature. There's still things I need to work on, but I think everybody can. Except maybe Tiger; he's pretty good.

 Q. Thoughts on the course, in terms of, like it, don't like it?
 JEFF OVERTON: I love it. I think it's a great track. Good, old-fashioned golf course, keep the ball in front of you. Especially if you miss the fairways, you'd better play the front of the green, and it's great because it's firm and you can run shots up there. A lot of times we play these courses and they're so wet, you miss the green and you don't really get the chance to kind of use your imagination and run the ball up on the green. 
 NELSON SILVERIO: Thanks, Jeff.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT