HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2010
Jeff Overton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Talk about the day and the week. 
 JEFF OVERTON: It was a tough golf course, and you got to make putts, and I had a bunch of good ones coming out of the stretch and just didn't make any. 
 Right there around 9, 10, 11, I had a couple of great opportunities to make birdies, but I didn't. You've got to take advantage of the easy pins on a tough golf course like this, and I wasn't able to do that today. 

 Q. What do you take away from a week like this, coming so close? 
 JEFF OVERTON: Depression. No, it was a fun week, just too bad that a couple of putts didn't come in down the stretch. 

 Q. What's the one thing you think you have to do to finally pick up a victory here on the TOUR? 
 JEFF OVERTON: Get out of my own way. I've got to stop thinking about winning and just go out there and play golf and not get nervous and all that good stuff. 

 Q. Jeff, you made the turn tied for the lead, 10-under, but you couldn't get anything going on the backside. 
 JEFF OVERTON: Yeah, it played tough. I had good opportunities and the ball kept sliding over the hole. Wasn't my time I guess. 

 Q. Talk about 11; that might have been the turning point. Drivable par 4, end up with a bogey. 
 JEFF OVERTON: Yeah, the wind was coming out of left and I hit a high shot from there and was trying to hold the wind, and unfortunately it came out of it and took it with the wind and got a bad break and got behind some trees. 

 Q. Within the last month, tied for second in New Orleans and maybe even second here, depending on what's happened, certainly a third place finish; you've played solid golf. 
 JEFF OVERTON: Good to be playing and having the opportunity to win right at the end. A lot more fun playing like this and having the chance than it is to miss cuts and stuff like I was doing earlier in the year. It's always fun, and the Byron Nelson is such a great event. These guys do an unbelievable, job, the men in the red pants. They're something else, so fun to be here. 

 Q. You're going to be 27 Friday. Special plans? 
 JEFF OVERTON: I don't know. I got to call my dad and wish him happy birthday. We have the same birthday; it's kind of a weird one. 

 Q. Thanks. Good luck the rest of the year. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT