HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 22, 2010
Jeff Overton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Jeff, 1-under, par 69, not a bad day, especially in conditions like this? 
 JEFF OVERTON: Yeah, it was brutal out there. The wind was blowin' a good 20 miles an hour, it seemed like. I got off to a rough start, but I was able to make a few putts, the pins were tough, and if you'd told me I would shoot 1-under at the beginning of the round, I would take it. 

 Q. You were 2-over at one point. What clicked? 
 JEFF OVERTON: I don't know, just a weird little place out there. You keep goin' along, next thing you know, the putts go in and you're like, wow, so it was just kind of weird. 
 I knew if I stayed patient and I got a couple of good rolls and hit some greens I would be in good shape. 

 Q. Hasn't taken long but going to feel good giving yourself a shot to go into Sunday again this year?
 JEFF OVERTON: Yeah, my confidence is up from a few weeks ago and hopefully we can take what you learned and keep it going. And it's going to be awful tough to beat Jason Day on the golf course out here. 

 Q. You're not sleepin' in your own bed this week! But with the forecast to be the same tomorrow, it's going to be tough to be patient isn't it? 
 JEFF OVERTON: It's going to be tough. Pars go a long way, especially in wind like this. We'll see how everything goes down. 

 Q. Very windy day?
 JEFF OVERTON: Yeah, very windy. 

 Q. Jeff, I know it wasn't the ideal way to finish but 9-under. Talk about the round. 
 JEFF OVERTON: Played solid, up and down here and there. Altogether I did okay. Hope to go out there tomorrow and make some putts and keep it on the fairway. 

 Q. You've been playing well. What do you credit that to? 
 JEFF OVERTON: The combination of having a new caddie, and he's worked on my confidence, and he's always talking about being confident, everything he says is positive coming out of his mouth, and I'm just riding that, and that combined with a new driver, and I'm hitting further, and the combination of a few things has been great. 

 Q. What do you think you have to do tomorrow to get the trophy at the end of the day? 
 JEFF OVERTON: I think it's going to come down to grinding it out. The place plays so hard, because of the winds at different angles and so forth. It's going to take patience and go out there and make some putts and hit fairways; fairways and greens out there are going to go a long, long way. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT