ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 24, 2010
Jeff Overton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Did you hit a 5-wood on 18?
 JEFF OVERTON: No, 3-wood. 

 Q. Well, Jeff, I was just talking to Shaun Micheel. First of all, nice little chip in there at 17, which was kind of payback for what happened to you on 16?
 JEFF OVERTON: Yeah, I was a little fired up after missing that little 3-footer. I don't usually miss those short ones especially when they're right to left. Sometimes when they're left to right I can miss, but usually those right to lefts are pretty easy. That was awesome. Chipped that thing in, and the crowd kind of had fun with it. It was pretty neat.

 Q. I was surprised you went high with the chip shot. I thought maybe you'd do a little bump-and-run thing. When that thing landed on the green did you think to yourself, There it is? 
 JEFF OVERTON: Yeah, as soon as I hit it, it came off just perfect. The wind was a little bit in, and it was a little on the down slope, so I kind of flew it past the down slope and a little spin. Thing just took one little check and right in the middle. It was awesome.

 Q. Tell me about the 18th hole. You were trying to make that eagle putt weren't you? 
 JEFF OVERTON: Yeah, you look up there and you see Jason just such a huge lead and you're like, God. I don't know, you try everything you can to do something and make something happen there at the end. See if you can get it a little closer to him coming into this weekend.

 Q. Even though this is Saturday and we are in the afternoon, was there a part of you that had to go, Hey, slow down, Jeff, we've still got 36 more holes to play? 
 JEFF OVERTON: No, we do. There is a lot of golf left. Anything can happen especially on a great golf course like this. At the same time, you don't really think about it. But you also use every single thing you can to help motivate you. 
 So I found a little extra motivation in that. And wound up pulling a great shot out of the hat on 18. Had 3-wood in there, and good to finish at 8 under.

 Q. What is the plan now before you have to go back out this afternoon? You're going it to finish around dark and be back out first thing in the morning. So you're probably not going to hit one of the super restaurants down here. Are you going to go catch the good grub right now? 
 JEFF OVERTON: Yeah, it looks like I have to wait for the oysters until tomorrow.

 Q. The oysters don't wait, come on now. 
 JEFF OVERTON: They're going to have to this time. Probably go in there and hang out, play some Scrabble or something. I don't know.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT