AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 29, 2015
Jeff Overton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Just some comments on your day.  
JEFF OVERTON:   Played pretty good.   Hit a lot of great shots and just I really -- to be honest, I couldn't get the putter going.   I missed a couple of short ones but I made a long one from the fringe on a hole and that kind of made up for it.   I hit the ball really well, drove it straight.   A tough golf course when you miss the fairways and you can't move your ball around because of the wet conditions and we did a good job tee to green.  
   
 Q.   How much did the conditions affect you out there today?  
JEFF OVERTON:   You know, they had a couple of tees up so it gave me a couple extra chances for some wedge opportunities, which is kind of my strength of my game.   So, it was kind of good for me the way they put some of the tees up.   
But, you know, still golf, you got to make putts.   A big putting contest at the end of the day so it's so wet outside -- out there but you're still getting to hit it close because the greens are soft.  
   
 Q.   How strange was it to play 14 that way given how difficult the hole is?  
JEFF OVERTON:   It was strange but in the Pro-Am I thought it was really strange.   They brought like a box out there and they had one of those mats out there and hit it off the mats.   I was kind of used to it after seeing that.  
   
 Q.   What did you think about how the course is actually ready after five inches of rain?  
JEFF OVERTON:   It's pretty amazing, amazing what the staff and everybody can do here.   I mean it's amazing out on the fairways, lot of spots don't have much of anything.   The sides of the golf course, like when you're talking, there's lots of puddles and stuff. It's amazing how it's in pretty good condition.  
   
 Q.   When did you get the word on 14?  
JEFF OVERTON:   They told us on -- right before we teed off we were allowed to get a shuttle from that -- from the 13th to the 14th hole.   So we figured it was a par 3 at that point.   So before we teed off we knew it was going to be one.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
JEFF OVERTON:   Yeah.   I heard -- I was wondering what they were going to do.   They don't tell us if it was par 3 or par 4.   Figure it's a par 3 because you have -- I don't know they have all those birdies, charity things if you make an eagle donate all kinds of weird things so I figured that for that side of things they needed to make it a par 3 for the scoring side of things.   Easier for them just to left it as a par 4 so you don't have any confusion because the scorecard has 4 on it.  
   
 Q.   Jeff, how much more of an advantage is it to have your round finished?   They're not going to finish the 2nd Round today.   You get a chance to sleep in a little bit, go off 3-somes on Saturday.  
JEFF OVERTON:   I don't know.   You never know.   The wind might not blow and might be perfect and might dry up and the ball gets a little more roll out.   
At the same time, you know, it's nice being in the clubhouse and just getting a good night's sleep, not worrying about finishing the round, getting ready for the 3rd Round.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT