CIMB CLASSIC
October 31, 2014
Jeff Overton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Good round.   
JEFF OVERTON:   Thanks.   
   
 Q.   Just talk about kind of the first two days here in Malaysia and getting yourself into a nice spot going into the weekend.   
JEFF OVERTON:   Yeah, I always love coming over here for some reason.   Seems like I always play all right.   
Just got off to a really bad start and I hit it way right and got lucky to make a bogey, and another bad bogey, but then after that it just seemed like the swing was back on fire like it was yesterday and hit a lot of good shots, made a big, long putt on a hole, and just kept on grinding it out and had a good solid round.  
   
 Q.   Now, good playing on two different courses, so you can't necessarily say it's the course.   It's a little different than Indiana out here.   Is there any particular thing about being over here, time of year?  
JEFF OVERTON:   I think it's because it's just so hot.   You don't really care how you do.   You're just trying to live.  
   
 Q.   Survive.   
JEFF OVERTON:   You're trying not to die of a heart stroke or something.   It's just, I mean, I don't know.   It's just‑‑ I came over here the first time and finished second.   I guess maybe I have good vibes or something.   I don't know.   Obviously the game of golf is all about confidence, and having a good vibe starting the week is always a big advantage.  
   
 Q.   Talking about confidence, do you have some kind of going into this stretch?   I mean I know it's been kind of up‑and‑down for you the last few months.   
JEFF OVERTON:   Yeah.   Been hitting the ball pretty well.   It just seems like there's one little thing here and there in each tournament that kind of has been costing me, but I've been playing good.   Just can't really put a‑‑ figure exactly out what it is.   Just continue what I'm doing, and hopefully everything all goes together at once.  
   
 Q.   Hoping to get in contention.   I imagine excited to get that feeling back on the weekend?  
JEFF OVERTON:   Yeah, absolutely.   Looking forward to.   It's a fun golf course, and after playing here last year, I kind of have it figured out.   It's just a matter of driving the ball straight, hit the ball straight and make some putts on these greens and we'll be right there in it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT