EUTELSAT MONTE CARLO OPEN
April 25, 1996
Andrei Medvedev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. What's your feeling now towards this match?
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  I'm disappointed that I lost.  I felt that I should have won. 
 

Q. What happened during the second set?  You seemed to have lost your game a bit.
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Well, I think it was a mental letdown at the beginning of the second set, and then I had a few points where I could have won them, missed them just a little bit.  He got his game going.  The set was gone in a few minutes.  I think if I could keep pressure on him in the beginning of the second set, it would be different in that set.  Of course he played very good match.  I just felt that I had very, very good chances to win.  Also he had very good chances to win.  He used those chances; I didn't. Disappointing. 
 

Q. Till what level of rain were you ready to play?
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  I would rather not play in the rain at all, but it's not up to me to decide.  The conditions were the same for both of the players.  I don't  think it's fair for him as well to play under the rain. Maybe we could both produce a better level of tennis if we played under normal conditions.  But that's why the tennis is a great sport, is you have to deal not only with your opponent but sometimes with the natural factors.  I don't think that he dealt with this better than myself, it was just a matter of getting a few key points going. 
 

Q. Was it dangerous?
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  I thought in the beginning the lines were slippery, but then I reconsidered it and it was fine, I was ready to keep playing.  Me, I'm not the one to complain. 
 

Q. You played Cedric Pioline '93, US Open.  Can you compare the two Piolines, even though it's not the same surface?
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  I can't. 
 

Q. Even if you lose today, do you have the feeling that now you're on the right way?
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Not only now, I know I'm on the right way.  I've been on the right way for a few months. Every time I go on the court, I feel better and better. It's a matter of time when I start winning those key matches.  It's disappointing that I lost, but I feel  confident with my game.  As long as I feel that way, I think the game will come better and better, and I'll start winning matches.  I have no problems feeling bad or unconfident.  I don't have that problem. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT