U.S. OPEN
August 28, 1995
Andrei Medvedev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Andrei, what is your feeling about the U.S. Open this year? Has it changed any? How
do you feel about the U.S. Open?
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: You mean -- so many aspects. Which one are you interested in? 
 
Q. In general, last year you said the food was --
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: Oh, this year, I must say, the USTA made a lot of improvements. I
don't know who, me, or we have to thank the tournament director of USTA; Flushing Meadow
Organization, but the conditions have been improved, definitely. I mean, the lockerrooms
are larger, and the food is much better. The food was better than last year. It seems like
the atmosphere is a lot friendlier than it used to be. And it makes, for instance, it
makes me feel more comfortable. It makes me feel relaxed before my matches, and it makes
me feel, like, good. Perhaps the specialty of this Grand Slam, it is loud and that it is
fast; that's it, little bit crazy Grand Slam. But with this year, it makes me feel like I
am here, I am here to play; I am here to do my job, and I think I have a chance -- I have
possibilities here. It is a lot easier to play this year than the year before. 
 
Q. What were your problems prior to the USTA making the adjustment?
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: I didn't have a problem. I just couldn't understand how was it working
when USTA makes huge money and last people they care about are players. We are here to
play. Basically, without players, there wouldn't be any sponsors and without players, USTA
wouldn't get this huge money. And I think we are the ones who deserve to get paid back by
having the conditions to be at the tournaments; by having good lockerroom and good food. I
think that is what they did this year. In the years before, it needed to be improved, but
it is all history. In the past, I don't think we even should talk about it. 
 
Q. How are the conditions? You used the word "fast" before. I know that you
are a fan of a slower game; how is it like that?
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: I am not talking about courts. I am talking about freedom of life here
in New York. At the U.S. Open so many people, so many players, I mean, just a little bit
crazy. You really have to be focused to play. And, I mean, if you want to win and I think
this year it is a bit more quiet. It is nice. It is more relaxed. You have your privacy
where you have the players lounge where only players can go and you can be in a huge city
by yourself, which is great. Flushing Meadows is like a huge big city with many people
living in a small area. In this area, with the bigger lockerrooms, you can find the
privacy. 
 
Q. Andrei, you are ready to take a good run at this event this year or how do you feel
physically coming in?
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: Well, physically I feel okay. I haven't been bothered by injuries for
the last few months and -- I wish I won more matches before coming here, but I didn't you
know, I feel good. My game is getting better. It is just a matter of me taking the match,
after the match, just one match at a time. And mentally I am ready. I don't have a huge
confidence coming here, but I am ready to play. I am ready to fight. And if I be lucky, I
can pass some rounds, then you never know what happens. 
 
Q. You dropped the first set and had some problems, it looked like, getting into a
rhythm. What did you do later on in the match to take control of that?
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: I tried to stay focused. I tried not to let my nerves control the
game. I was trying to control the game with my brain, and I felt that I have advantage. I
had advantage in the first set. I just couldn't -- I couldn't convert, I think like 8
breakpoints in the first set, not one, and I felt that the time is coming when I start
breaking him, and it was early in the second set and then I took the lead. I didn't look
back since then. 
 
Q. Were you surprised how well he played especially the first set?
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: He played well. Not only the first set, he played well the whole
match. And, you know, I don't like to play against a player that I don't know. I only knew
him from looking at him in the player's lounge, something like this, but I never saw him
play. And when the guy wins three qualifying matches; not dropping one set; he is lefty
and keeps the ball in play; has a good serve, he is the kind of guy you don't want to meet
in the first round. But I was lucky that I had stayed focused. I mean, as I said, I didn't
let my nerves control the game. The guy played very good. I am happy that I passed this
first round. 
 
Q. When you look back to a couple of years ago when you had, I think, it was Pioline,
you didn't play that good a match against him. Do you feel more mature now with that
match; a chance to do better than that?
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: I was a child then. I was 18, 19 years old and this was the time when
I had the success so quickly and I couldn't even appreciate it. I was just winning
tournaments -- I mean, not every tournament, but I was winning tournaments. I was in the
finals, semifinals, and for me this match was just like another match. Quarterfinal U.S.
Open, didn't perhaps realize how important it was. And I think if I have the same match
this year, you know, I would prepare myself differently. I would understand where I am. I
wouldn't just take this match as a given, and yes, it is a big difference for sure. 
 
Q. Why is your ranking slipping this year? Is it because of the injuries? 
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: No, basically because I didn't defend my points from last year and I
haven't been playing so well. But the reason to that, you know, it is very hard to give
objective reason. I mean, I cannot even give you the honest reason. I don't know the
reason. I mean, the reason is basically that I am not playing so well and that is why I
dropped my ranking. Why I am not playing so well, I don't want to make any excuses, but,
you know, I wasn't practicing enough. I wasn't concentrated on tennis enough. I was -- why
I wasn't concentrating on tennis? I had injuries, but once again, it is not excuse. It is
just a combination of things where it all turned out to be when I cannot play on the
court; when I cannot play in the tournaments and now, with help from my new coach, and my
friends, it is just -- I started to be more focused in the game. I like tennis, and I
think I cannot live without tennis and I realized that I waste a lot of time, just one
year, and I just don't want to make the same mistake. I am 20 years old, will be 21, and I
have plenty of time, but I don't want to lose it. I don't want to be 30 and say, I wish I
could have done that. . 
 
Q. Andrei, how high are you aiming or are you aiming at specific events say like the
French Open or if you are working so hard I mean, you must have something in your head?
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: Yeah, of course, my main goals are Grand Slams. I want to be as well
prepared as I can for the Grand Slams and to take a chance and everyone of them and maybe
win one of them some day. But the last year I have been troubled by injuries and every
time I was trying to prepare properly for a Grand Slam I would have a week or two which I
had to take off because of some injury. And, you know, since my health stabilized last
couple of months, I think I have been doing better next year, hopefully doing better next
year and I start from then. This year, I will play 'til the end. I will take match after
match. I don't have goals this year, I just want to get back where I was -- at where I was
last year and if I make it by the end of the year, fine; if not, my main goal is to ask it
next year; to stay healthy; to play fully and not to have excuses. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT