VOLVO MONTE-CARLO OPEN
April 25, 1995
Andrei Medvedev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Can you tell us what happened?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV: He played well.  I didn't  feel so good since the morning and I had a very high  blood pressure not to come to the court at all, but I  thought for my best interest it would be to try.  I  tried, but I couldn't do much.  And normally should  have lost in two sets, but I got a lucky break and I  had the chance maybe to win in three sets, but I mean,  I couldn't perform on my level and he played really  good.   
 

Q.  Did you have any problem with your elbow?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV: No, no.  I just didn't feel  good, even now.  I mean, I took the medicine when I had  the break, but I mean, it helped for a while but not so  much.  It is hard to win when you don't even play  well.  It is hard to beat anybody.  And Richard played  well today, so I think he deserves to win.   
 

Q.  Why did you take some medicine?  Are you ill?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV: Yeah, I said I have high  blood pressure, and I thought of not going to the court  at all, but I didn't think I couldn't even stand -- I  mean, I almost fell in the first set because I was  losing the coordination.  I was lucky that the rain  started and I could have a chance to recover somehow.  I did well in the beginning, but then he played okay  and I started to feel dizzy again.   
 

Q.  Can you explain yourself why you have high  blood pressure?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV: Honestly not.  I mean,  yesterday I didn't feel bad at all.  I was playing  basketball and I think I scored all the points for my  team.  I was a little bit sore after, but I really  didn't feel any signs, even -- any signs of illness  even on the breakfast.  I hit a little bit in the  morning.  I felt well and then just before I was going  to the court, I felt that I can't.  I just -- I would  rather not go on the court at all, but it was maybe ten  or fifteen minutes before the match and I had no  choice.  I mean, I had to go.  But the reason what  happened, I don't even know.  I don't feel -- I mean,  my throat is fine, my heart is still working, it is  just that I feel very bad.   
 

Q.  Were you scared?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV: Of what?   
 

Q.  When you said you almost fell.  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV: Oh, no, no, no.  I was just  disappointed.  I mean, obviously it is not -- obviously  not what I am expected to fall on the court.  I am  expected to fall on the court when I get a lob.  I just  slip on the court because I wasn't feeling very good,  and now I am still bad.  My blood pressure was 150 to  100 and this is not very normal.  What happened, I  don't know - I slept alone last night - it is strange.   
 

Q.  Did it happen to you before?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Not blood pressure.  I  mean, I was ill before, yeah, but never like this.  I  mean, this is the first time.  It is very strange.   
 

Q.  Are you going to see a doctor?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV: I already saw a doctor.  I  mean, he helped me a lot for sure.  The same thing --  actually, more or less the same thing happened last  year before the final here and the team of doctors,  they did a great job.  They made me play.  This time it  was the same.  I went on the court, I felt good, I felt  that I could play, but then after maybe ten or fifteen  minutes I started to feel bad again.  I don't think it  is the fault of anybody.  I mean, I don't think any  medicine could help at this moment.  But, sure, I am  going to see them.  But I think it is a bit late for  help now.   
 

Q.  A couple of years ago you said you had  travelled because of radiation; at least I read that.  Do you think this could have something to do with that  Chernobyl?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV: I hope not.  I mean, I feel,  like, healthy, young man so far.  I mean, maybe not  very healthy, but healthy enough.  I mean, I wasn't in  Chernobyl yesterday, so normally it shouldn't happen  today.  It is just -- maybe the air here is something,  I don't know.  But then the rest of the players should  feel bad, but it is really strange to me.  I cannot  even explain it because yesterday was a normal day for  me.  I almost had a day off, only it rained in the  morning, played basketball in the evening, then today  in the morning I felt good.  I mean, if I would get the  food poisoning or something like this, I would know.  But I have no problems at all.  I just feel very week  and dizzy.  It is something that you cannot control.  Everything what I can do to prepare for the match I  did.  There was not much to do yesterday, but most of  it I did.  But it just slipped out of my hands; nothing  I could do.  I am sure there is nothing to do with  Chernobyl.   
 

Q.  Did you feel any mental pressure from being  last year's winner?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV: Honestly, no, because I  would probably feel the pressure if the points would  drop off, but as it did last week, I had no control of  the points or of anything, I just was defending the  title.  I mean, not very long, but it was a great  feeling to be back and it is still my favorite  tournament to play; besides Roland Garros.  It is  really nice here and I wish I could do better, but as I  said, everything what I could have done, I done.  I  could have lost in two sets and I am happy I had the  chance at least to fight.  But, you know, I will be  back.  There are many more years for me to play, I  hope.  And it is -- today is one of -- these years is  one of these years where things don't go my way.  But I  am 20, I am not 30, so I have time.   
 

Q.  First time you played in the first ^ four  clay court tournaments, does that have anything to do?  Is it too much competition or -- it is the first time  you played Estoril, Barcelona, Nice, Monte Carlo in a  row.  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV: Well, of course.  I mean, I  was getting ready for the season.  I played well in  Australia and I was hoping to do well indoors and to do  well in Indian Wells and Lipton, but unfortunately I  fell in Australia and I had the injury, and to recover  from that took me six or seven weeks, so I lost a lot  of time.  And the reason why I played now so many  tournaments is just to try to get my confidence back;  try to get my game back.  And I have been working very  hard.  I mean, I cannot expect the results yet, but I  am coming to the point where how I used to play last  year and two years ago.  And I mean, I just have to --  I just don't have to give up and I will not.  I mean, as I said, I am 20 years old.  I have  a lot of potential and I have time.  I am working.  I  am dedicated my life now to tennis and I don't think  anything can stop me except for the injuries.  I mean,  this is one of the weeks where I wish I could do  better, but, you know, it is a sport; you can lose and  you can win.  This week I lost, so I will practice next  week and take each day at a time.  But I am happy that  I wasn't injured for the last two months.  And anyway,  it is surprising me, but it gives me some confidence  that my health became better and I have energy to  work.  I have the will to work, so hopefully things  will change.  I know things will change, but it will  just take some time.   
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT