THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 18, 1995
Andrei Medvedev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Can we start with the wind, Andrei. The wind, looked like it really picked up this afternoon a lot. How did it affect the play? 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV: I thought it was difficult for both of us. I am not exactly a wind specialist -- a wind player specialist, so for me, it was difficult to adjust. But I think I did okay. For the first time, I am very happy that I came through, but it was really difficult to play. The wind affected both of us and the game could be much more spectacular, but it wasn't, so. 
Q. If it continues like this, are we going to have another week like 1993 where so many players were upset because we had a lot of rain, also, at that time? 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV: For me, I didn't have any problems because I stay at the resort outside of Miami; not in the official hotel. They have courts. They have golf courses; all kind of things for practicing. If it rains, I will stay in there; wait for the rain to stop and I only come here for matches because I think it is difficult to be here with in the first days with all the women players and men players, so I think I found a pretty good solution for myself. I think it is really not enough space when the rain starts and everybody goes to the player's lounge, it is pretty crowded. 
Q. Are you completely healthy now? Wrist okay? Knees okay? 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV: I can always find a couple of injuries in me, but not the ones that would really hurt me for playing. 
Q. We are all waiting for you now to make your move on the top four or five players. And what do you need to do to get there? Are you getting impatient? 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV: I need to get back some confidence. I have been practicing very hard for the last few months and if not for the broken wrist, I think I would even be doing much better with the ranking and with my tennis, but I have patience, I think I was a little bit unlucky, but I hope to come back on clay. Clay is my surface and I think if I can do well, I can get some confidence back and then I can do as well on hardcourts here in August and indoor. 
Q. Your change in coaches, how has this affected your game or techniques or practice concepts, the way you play? 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV: Well, I have realized; especially lately, that I need only a guy who can motivate me to come to the court because once I am on the court, I am doing okay. My best results came without coach and I played really good in Monte Carlo and Hamburg and I didn't have anybody. So I figured I need a guy who can travel with me; who can help me with all the little things that might distract me playing in a tournament, but also I need the person who could tell me a few things about the technique and tactic if I need to, so I think I found this person and it is okay. But of course the change in coaches, it is difficult mentally because you get into the relationship with the person and then you have to break up, so it is kind of tough, but it is the way life goes. 
Q. An ATP political question: Vote is scheduled this afternoon on a possible change in the ranking system. And I know you have become much more involved in recent months with the ATP. I am interested in knowing your opinion; whether or not you think there should be a change in the ranking system and if so, how? 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV: Well, I think the first point that we should -- why should we need to change the ranking system and I think it has a negative side and positive side because if you change the ranking system before -- if we would have the system that is coming up before started playing, I would never even come to play on the grass courts in indoors and I think that would really affect all tennis; not only me, but also Bruguera and Kafelnikov and Berasategui, we would just --- wouldn't be there. We wouldn't come to the surfaces that we don't like to play on. But in the other way, on the other hand, I understand that people expect everybody to play as hard as they can and unfortunately, I cannot understand how the people don't realize that we do play as hard as we can. And if that is the case, I think we can sacrifice a few things and we can change the system, but personally I am personally against it. 
Q. Do you favor the best 14 system? 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV: Yeah, because I think it gives you a chance to play on every surface. You can try all kind of different conditions and I mean, it is better travelwise; it is better healthwise. You can choose the tournament that you want to play and it does not necessarily have to be a big tournament, you know. You don't really have to look for the top nine tournaments or Grand Slams. You can pick up the points on the smaller tournaments. And it gives you a chance to prepare for the big ones better and I really believe that the players give 100% every time they go on the court. So I mean, on the present -- in the present situation, it might not look exactly that they play 100%, but I am sure this is the best what they could do right now. And I understand people don't accept this, but it is true. 
Q. You have never have played against Lionel, what do you think of his game? 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV: I think he is a very good player honestly. I think he hits the ball very good and for me to judge him correctly, it is very hard because of the conditions. I think if there would be no wind, I think he would be favored in this match today because he hits the ball cleaner than I am at the moment and I think he would make me run and move a lot more. So I give him a lot of credit and I think if he would have break me at 3-All he had two breakpoints, I mean, he would have won the match, but just -- also I could hold it at 6-5 in the second set. But I think he is a great player. I don't know how old he is. 
Q. Your age. 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV: He is 1974? 
Q. He is 20. 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV: He is a great player, that is for sure. 
End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT