COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 7, 1994
Andrei Medvedev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  What was the problem with the ankle?  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  To be honest, I don't -- I  stepped -- a little unfortunate when I was going to the  net, and I didn't twist it, I am sure.  But there was a  very sharp pain.  It was progressing with the times; it  was every game.  It was pretty unfortunate because I  thought I had a chance to win, and it is a little bit  disappointing.  


Q.  The last time we saw you, Andre, it was in  Paris.  You had a problem with the elbow.  You  defaulted against Forget.  Did you have to stop playing  for a long time?  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Oh, yeah.  The first time I  picked up the racket was four days ago since Paris.  Since the time when I had to default in a match against  Guy Forget.  Since that time I didn't play until four  days ago, and I did physical condition.  But obviously,  I missed tennis a lot.  I didn't expect to play here.  When I got the phone call that people saying that I am  in, you know, I had to start to practice.  My elbow is  actually okay now.  It doesn't bother me so much.  I  just don't have confidence yet in my strokes, and I was  very, very nervous when I played; especially in the  beginning.  


Q.  Andrei, if you counted all up the injuries, I  mean, would you say there is a reason for changing your  schedule next year or changing your --  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  No, I mean, I followed all  my injuries, but I didn't find any connection one to  each other because, you know, the first one I got was  of course the knee injury that I recovered successfully  and didn't bother me for the first half year, I mean,  it bothered me, but I could play.  And then I fell in  Stockholm, which is not real injury, but it hurt that I  couldn't play and after that, I recovered from that.  I  was practicing before U.S. Open; I was actually in good  shape, and I tore the cartilage in my wrist, serving, I  mean, I didn't play basketball during then; I didn't  fall in the street.  It was a working injury.  After  that, I was unlucky again on the court twice practicing  again.  Then I twisted my ankle playing soccer which is  the only injury I think happened outside the tennis  court.  Of course, with the elbow in Paris, I don't  even know what happened because all I did was just to  try to slice more, with the backhand and I don't know.  It seemed like my backhand improved, but the pain in  the elbow -- as soon as I recovered you saw me breaking  my foot -- not breaking, but hurting my foot.  I don't  know if there is any connection to that.  I don't think  I am tired.  


Q.  It is just plain bad luck?  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Could be.  It could be bad  luck.  It could be something else, but I don't think  there is something else.  I mean, to say this is bad  luck, it is kind of childish, I mean, it is a little  bit stupid, but unfortunately, I can not find any other  word for it.  Maybe my body wasn't ready for the  season.  


Q.  That is what I mean.  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Exactly, but then I don't  see why, you know, why would I fall and break  something.  I could fall the same without injuries; I  could just fall on my arm and continue to play, but I  fell and I break something always.  So I think it is  kind of a bad luck, but I am sure it has something to  do with the fact that I wasn't ready to play this  season because, of course, I had the knee operation.  


Q.  All players say that if they have injuries,  it is tough to come back because there is a lack of  confidence involved with it?  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Of course, for me it was  incredibly difficult today to play.  You saw how  nervous I was; especially on my forehand and serve  because those are the two shots that were hurting with  my elbow, when I played, and I couldn't find the  rhythm.  I was very excited to play, but I also didn't  want to play bad.  I put the pressure on myself, and,  you know, it was difficult.  I am sure everyone feels  the same, but I think I beat this pressure in the end  of the second set and of course, from second set on,  but the start was terrible.  I was like a child.  I  felt like a child.  


Q.  What are you going to do from now until the  Australian Open to prepare?  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  I am going to Tampa, to  Florida first trying to not to make same mistake I made  last year trying to be ready for the Australian Open;  trying to have a physical base and if I have a physical  base, I think everything will be okay.  Once again,  those kind of injuries I call stupid, but unfortunately  it seemed like I get many of them in the last six  months.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT