U.S. OPEN
September 2, 1994
Andrei Medvedev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. He said that he felt you didn't really take any chance to fight back. Do you agree
with that assessment? 
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: No, I think he played very good, I was trying to get into the match,
but he kind of -- I was trying to concentrate. Every time he was hitting winners and it
was a tough match to play.  
 
Q. So there was nothing more you could do? 
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: Well, the only chance for me was to play better. But, unfortunately,
it wasn't my day for me. I couldn't really give my best for -- I mean, I don't have a
particular reason, just that he played well and I couldn't get myself into the match.  
 
Q. Before you came out, did you feel like it might be that kind of day or was
everything sort of normal? 
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: It was kind of normal, but I was a little bit worried about my wrist,
and I mean, it didn't bother me at all because it was in the back of my mind.  
 
Q. What specifically is wrong with your wrist? 
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: Nothing, just bothered me.  
 
Q. How disappointed are you? 
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: Very.  
 
Q. What did it mean to you to be playing here? What does it mean that you lost? 
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: Just means a Grand Slam. Those are the tournaments that every player
likes to win and to lose the way that I lost today, it doesn't make me happy at all. So, I
will take a lesson from that. I already talked to Brad, with my coach, and I'm sure we'll
look to the next tournaments. And I'm pretty sure I will not make the same mistake again.  
 
Q. What kinds of things did he tell you? 
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: Positive things.  
 
Q. You said in a conference call one week ago of the ATP Tour, you said you didn't know
exactly how to play on hardcourt this year because you didn't have much time to play on
that kind of surface -- 
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: Every time I play here I knew already the tactic I should use, but
it's kind of -- things didn't come together today, which have nothing to do with the
hardcourt itself. Probably I would lose also if I play on the claycourt. So it was just
one of the rough days and it is a pity it happened in a Grand Slam. I really hoped to do
well here. I thought I'm able to do well here, but I just didn't do well.  
 
Q. Do you feel he basically lifted his game more, so you couldn't do anything about it
-- 
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: I'm sure his impression before the match was kind of like, "I
will go for my shots because I actually have nothing to lose," and, you know, he
played a very smart tactical game and on top of this he -- all the shots that he needed to
hit were winners. I had a few breakpoints and I couldn't convert them, not because I was
making unforced errors, but because he was making winners. And I think for him, everything
went his way, because he hit every ace, every game he hit one or two aces. His forehand
was great and I couldn't actually put from my side anything to play against him today. And
it was just one of these things.  
 
Q. Is part of the reason for today, do you think, still the fact that you don't quite
feel comfortable here? 
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: No, I mean it's never been a reason of the tennis specifically, for
myself anyway. I'm pretty sure things can be changed in a better way, but I mean, it is
not the fact that -- I can tell you now, it's not my favorite tournament, but I realize
it's the Grand Slam and I have to play here. The things have been improved and I'm happy
they've done it. And I mean, this was not a factor. It was just once again, even if I was
playing in paradise and on clay, I guess it would be same kind of result because I
mentally wasn't into the match today.  
 
Q. There was a time when Stefan Edberg disliked playing here tremendously and he got
accustomed to it and he won a couple of years. At this point, obviously, you're very down
today, but can you see a time in a few years where you'll feel more comfortable? 
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: For sure, just my style of the game and once again, I think
tenniswise, I play okay. Not great, but I play normal, and it was just a match of mentally
not being able to concentrate and fight. I basically gave up the third set and, you know,
I'm just disappointed with the way everything turned out. But I'm pretty sure that after
the -- you know, after the things that we talked with Brad, my coach, we made the right
decisions and hopefully it won't happen again. I know what I did wrong.  
 
Q. Did you feel there was any point in the match where you really felt it slip away or
any turning point for you where you felt you couldn't come back? 
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: Well, I could have come back if I would break him at least once. But
every time I had the break point, he was going for winners and making them. So every
time-- like you swim and you start to drown and you put your head up to get air and some
body pushes you back in the water, it was sort of like that Every time when I was trying
to catch up to him, he was making winners. So he was -- I mean I'm pretty sure that for
every player of my style playing on the baseline, he would have a tough time on the court.
You really have to be serve and volley player and play one of your best matches to beat
him today. Maybe he won't be playing as well as he did today tomorrow. Today he played
great.  
 
Q. Does Brad or even you think about trying to be more of a serve and volleyer for
yourself? 
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: Yes, sure.  
 
Q. Especially if you're down? 
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: We're trying to be more aggressive, but we haven't been working long
enough to try and improve that, and I was trying to do that already for three years and
it's kind of -- I cannot -- once again, it's mentally. Hopefully, I still have time and by
the time I'm mature enough I can play serve and volley game. But so far I'm just taking
step by step and I have so many other problems in my game that I would like to improve,
that serve and volley goes on the side.  
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT