U.S. OPEN
August 31, 1994
Andrei Medvedev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Wrist give you any trouble today? 
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: No.  
 
Q. Andrei, when you see some of the other top seeds go down early does that make you
refocus a bit? You seemed very focused out there. 
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: No, not necessarily. Actually, I just get more careful about playing
the match because, you know, you realize that two of the top seeds went down and you don't
want to be another one, so you kind of concentrate more.  
 
Q. You find the conditions any different from last year? 
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: No, it is the same. I mean, the same weather, same -- I mean, the same
facilities; same city.  
 
Q. Boris said that the courts were slower and the balls were heavier. 
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: Well, it is not a surprise because I think we have seen already Boris
making lots of excuses, so it doesn't surprise me. I mean, I don't find anything different
from the last year because I kind of don't notice if the courts are slower or faster. I
mean, I always say if you are good enough you win even on ice, so...  
 
Q. You say the same weather, same facility as last year, you talked a lot about how bad
the food was. 
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: The food is great this year, honestly, without joking. I mean, they
really done a good job foodwise because I think they changed the cook and they changed the
facility there and -- no, without any joke. I mean, it is honestly better and the food is
great. You have a lot of choices now and to me, I mean, I was eating already for over ten
days because I was here Monday last week, so the food is good. You have lots of choices
and the prices are affordable. You can eat -- for the tickets that they give us, I can eat
and I can also eat with my coach, so, I mean it is great.  
 
Q. What about New York City? 
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: It is exciting, still exciting.  
 
Q. What in particular in the player's lounge do you find tasty and particularly sort of
a gourmet treat for you? The food in the lounge, what have you been eating? 
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: I was eating pasta that -- I mean, you have different choice of sauce
and you have a different choice -- you can eat linguini, spaghetti, any type of pasta. You
can also eat baked potatoes and all sorts of meat, vegetables, salads and fruit. Honestly,
it is great. And of course, the stadium and the facilities need some other works to be
done, but if they move the way they move with the food, by the end of my career it will be
a pleasure to play here.  
 
Q. This is your birthday; is it not? 
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: Yes.  
 
Q. Anything in particular happen to you this morning that anybody did that helped you
celebrate your birthday? 
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: It is very nice of you mentioning birthday and not saying happy
birthday, so I don't have to answer the question.  
 
Q. How does it feel not to be a teenager? 
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: It feels good. Actually, doesn't feel any different, just when you --
when you meet the girl you can say "I am 20." I am not a teenager. I kind of
don't need it anymore because I have a girlfriend, but still, it is nice, you meet
somebody you say I am 20.  
 
Q. Still getting carded? 
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: And it only gets 21, 22. It won't get back to teen, so that is nice.  
 
Q. They used to make a big to do about Connors' birthday here, do you think -- 
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: No, I actually don't like to celebrate my birthday very much. I like
to just have my family and a couple of friends, go out for dinner, that is all. But I like
presents very much.  
 
Q. Have you gotten any presents today? 
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: Of course.  
 
Q. Can you tell us what some of them are? 
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: I got the very nice present from the girlfriend and my family and also
from my ex-coach, it was very nice, he sent flowers, and I get the present from little
Sasha from my friends, so it was very special and nice. I kind of had a very good many.  
 
Q. Had it been a while since you had seen Sasha? 
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: Well, I seen him couple of days ago, but before that, it has been a
while.  
 
Q. Has he grown a lot? 
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: No. I mean, yeah, sort of. But you cannot really notice it because I
only haven't seen him for six months.  
 
Q. What about his tennis, is it any better? 
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: I haven't seen him play.  
 
Q. Did you talk at all to Kafelnikov about what it is like to play here? 
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: No. I mean, what do you mean? It is -- I mean, it is the same because
as soon as you go on the court you have to play. I am pretty sure he is not blind. He see
how, you know, how -- what is the next word -- how the stadium is, I would say. And he
knows that he has to concentrate extra. And he has a coach and I don't think that he needs
any explanation that this is the Grand Slam and this is the last Grand Slam of the year so
you have to play more concentrate.  
 
Q. Just because he had never played here before and he didn't know what to expect, at
least that is what he said Sunday. 
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: Well, I mean, I don't know. I am not his advisor, for sure. He didn't
ask me how he feels like. Obviously, you could see already that it is something different
compared to all the other tournaments. So I am sure he can make the adjustments.  
 
Q. Andrei, there is a recurring theme in my conversations with a lot of the guys on the
tour about top ten wins, and one of the things I hear all the time is that they feel like
they can make these top ten wins except for Sampras, he is in a class by himself. You
might, if you get there, meet him in the quarterfinals. What is your take on Sampras's
aura, is he out of reach? 
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: No. For sure Pete is the best player by far at the moment and I mean,
this is very obvious, but it is kind of make me feel happy because now I see what, you
know, what I should be, what I should try to be, what kind of player I should try to be.
So I mean, if I would be lucky enough to reach the quarterfinal and I would hope to play
Pete, and not because, you know, I want to say I want to beat him, I just want to see how
I play. I want to see how far I am from the top because he is obviously the top at the
moment. I don't know, I think he is reachable because he is human and he has two arms and
two legs and I mean, I am pretty sure if the people work hard and they put enough effort
and if they be -- if they will be very dedicated, they have a chance to reach him. But I
don't know how soon it will be. But I would be the first one who will try for sure next
year. I just hope to have less injuries.  
 
Q. You just started working with Stine, Brad, can you say what you like about him; what
you are working with? 
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: He is very professional and also very good person. I mean, it is easy
to communicate with him and he is kind of independent, that is what I like about him. He
doesn't depend on me, so when we meet on the court he does his job and then, you know, I
don't have to think what he is doing because he takes care of it for himself. That is
great for me. We have been working, especially lately, on fitness program and I improve my
fitness. We were trying to lose some weight and I also have done some jogging. Of course,
tenniswise he explain me a few things which of course I was explained before, but it is
very important to hear from somebody else, then you think if two people tell you the same
thing, for sure it is right. It has been great.  
 
Q. How did you guys get together? Did you seek him out or the other way? 
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: No, we just talked about the possibility to work. It kind of worked
out. He told me with his contract with Jim was expiring and he was able to be like a free
agent or something so we talked about the deal and, you know, we started working.  
 
Q. What do you like of your chances here? I mean, you might have to play Sampras in the
quarters, but -- 
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: My next match will be either against Novacek or Volkov, so it is a
hard match and I hope to pass this one, but if my knees won't bother me I think I have a
good chance to play well here. I don't know how well but just good. I might lose in the
second round, but as long as I play good I wouldn't mind that.  
 
Q. Andre Agassi talked about rivalries getting together, McEnroe, Connors those kinds,
personalities. Do you like being a personality? Are you a personality? I mean the media
responds to you? Do you enjoy all this? 
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: No, I enjoy when the media writes exactly what I say and I really hate
when all the press last year was saying that I was complaining about the food. This is
pretty stupid of you because I wasn't complaining. I was saying the truth and
unfortunately most of the people don't like to hear the truth if it is painful and I think
okay, this guy is complaining. So it -- I kind of got pissed off and I didn't care what
the press was saying. So if you would be nice to me which means only saying things that I
say, then it is great, we have a great relationship. But if you will act like an asshole I
will act like an asshole to you. I hope it is clear for everybody.  
 
Q. I think you are a great guy by the way. 
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: No, but I am saying if the press will understand me, what I mean and
because I think I express myself very clear and if had you guys understand what I mean,
but you write something different, then you are in trouble because I won't talk to you
anymore. Then you have no job, perhaps, you get fired from the newspaper.  
 
Q. I believe one of the players had said that after the experiment with the music in
New Haven that you were going around kind of polling players asking them what they like
and didn't like. Is that true? 
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: Yeah, I took the position in the players' council so I was questioning
most of the players what they think about it and we all agreed to the point that only if
the music is not loud, only in this point there were 50% who agreed to have music on the
court and still 50% didn't. So I mean, it would be up to the ATP, but the top 10 guys they
decided they split half and half. I mean, they didn't really enjoy music on the
changeovers.  
 
Q. But it is interesting that a guy as young as you is very involved kind of in
leadership with the players. Is that something you like -- 
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: Because it pissed me off that ATP was panicking and trying to change
the rules that we have at the moment. They were just overreacting on the things that there
were a few articles like tennis is dying and everything so took the position because I
felt that somebody has to protect the players and actually we made some good changes that
hopefully will help the game. But you know, of course it is between players and ATP Tour,
but you know, they should take it more easier because the people that said they don't
enjoy tennis anymore they obviously don't understand anything in tennis.  
 
Q. Do you feel that by telling the truth last year about the facilities and the food
and everything that that was one of the reasons why they might have changed improved it? 
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: Believe it or not but the tournament director here or the guy who is
responsible for the facilities and for the players relations or something like that, he
came to me and he said, it is really because of you we change the cook and we change the
facility. So I don't know if he is real on that or not but that is what he said. I am
pretty sure that if I wouldn't say anything and if the other players wouldn't agree to
that I am pretty sure we would have the same food like last year and we would get some
poisoning.  
 
Q. Are you surprised by that? 
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: Yes, I mean, if they move like this, I have a few more positions that
I will tell at the end of the tournament, so you can just you know, you have nothing to
write yet, and then when I leave you can write whatever you want, so I don't read it and
then I tell you a few suggestions if they move the way they moved with the food I told you
by the end of my clear it will be pleasant to play here.  
 
Q. Thanks, Andrei.  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT