ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 20, 1993
Andrei Medvedev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Andrei, obviously not easy when you are on the  receiving end, but that was an almost unbelievable  performance by Pete Sampras.  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Well, I think so, because I would like to see  the statistic of this match because I think he served  about 80% of the first serves and many of them were  aces.  Besides this, he played a very strong baseline  game.  I obviously had not so many chances today, but,  you know, I am happy the way that I played today; could  be better, but I still don't think even if I play my  best match I could have won today.  Because Pete played  unbelievable.   
 

Q.  You know he won the match with his thousandth  ace of the year.  Do you think the serve is his biggest  weapon?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Well, it is one of the biggest weapons.  I  think he has got all-around game that allows him to be  No. 1 -- clean No. 1.  So serve is one of the biggest weapons that  he has, but -- maybe it is the biggest, but he has such  a strong game, that it is hard to say which -- what is  the best part of him.  He is strong all-around.  And  especially, you know, when the bounce is very even and  when it is on the hard court, when you cannot really --  you cannot really play the point very long.  There, he  is the best.  He is simply the best.  On the clay,  okay, I have more chances.  It would be tough for him  to play on the clay, but on the hard court, it is  really, really big problem for me.  When he plays like  that; maybe one time didn't work for him today, maybe  then I would have had a chance, but he played an  unbelievable game.   
 

Q.  What do you have to do to make the next jump,  say, to the top five, what do you have to do in your  game?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  I have so many things to improve that it is  just amazing part of the work that we have to do with  my coach.  There are so many things I need to improve.  My forehand, backhand, especially my volleys and serve,  and at the moment, I think I am a little bit too heavy  on the court and I mean -- not I think, I know I am too  heavy on the court.  I need to improve that and beside  this, I would like to improve my tactical game that I  can play more tactical, you know, ways, I don't know,  more games, you know, something like this, that -- that  I don't have to play only baseline; that I can probably  serve and volley and win the match, and be attacker and  win the match.  So many things to improve that I don't  think we can do it all next year.  But hopefully in the  next few years we will be able to do that.  Then we can  set the goals of being a better ranking players.  Because I think at the moment, my place is here.  I am  very happy that I am No. 6 because I don't think I  deserve to be No. 3 or 2 or 1 or 4 or 5.  Because I  don't think that my game is good enough to be ranked in  the top five.  So No. 6 is, you know, I think maybe it  is not the right place, but it is not -- it is the  place where I feel okay.   
 

Q.  Mark Miles this morning talked about coaching  on the court.  How do you think about that?  Would it  help you?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  He thinks that the coaches should be on the  court?   
 

Q.  That there is a possibility of thinking next  year about --  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  That would help me a lot because when you  play against a guy like this, you know, -- against a  guy like Pete and especially when he played like he  played today, you need somebody who can -- cool your  head down because you get nervous, you cannot play you  can -- you just get blown off the court.  You need  someone to tell you relax.  In these cases, the coaches  are very good.  But I think it is in the middle game, I think  it makes us a better person or stronger men to decide  everything ourselves, because if the coach on the  changeover tells you where to go and where to run, then  you cannot make the decision in your own life.  You  have to make decisions on the court and off the court.  So for that, I think the coach is not good on the  court.  But sometimes to win a few matches, he would  definitely help me.  Absolutely.  But I think it is  enough when we talk in the lockerroom; when we decide  what tactic we play today and we decide how we play  today, and then I go on the court and I play.  But you  never know.  If they decide to put the coaches on the  court, I will be more than happy with that.  Absolutely.  But then I just don't think that it would  help, you know, it would help me personally to be a  stronger person.   
 

Q.  Can you answer two questions?  If Stich wins,  do you think he can beat Sampras tomorrow and if Goran  wins, do you think he can beat Sampras tomorrow?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  I think if Pete is playing tomorrow like he  played today, I think there is not so many chances for  both of them.  But, I mean Goran can play unbelievable  match and Michael also.  It is hard to say.  It is  tennis.  It is the last match of the season, last match  of 1993.  You never know who is going to win.  It is  very tough.  It is best of five.  It is indoors.  You  cannot really say that Pete is going to win or Stich is  going to win or Goran is going to win.  They both have  chances.  But I think if Pete is playing today like he  -- I mean, is playing tomorrow like he played today, I  think he will be the winner.  But I don't want to say  anything about it.   
 
 
Q.  Thank you.        
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT