ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 18, 1993
Andrei Medvedev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Andrei, did you sleep today before the match  or during the match?  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  No.  Not during, not before.  Not even at  night.  


Q.  Are you going to sleep tonight definitely?  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  I couldn't sleep yesterday for sure.  


Q.  You came back very nicely from a set down.  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Yeah, I mean, I was a little bit tight at the  beginning of the match because I felt that I have a  chance to win the whole thing, and I was, you know, I  had a thought in my mind; oh, I could be in the  semi-final, and it is unbelievable.  This is what I  should think about during the match.  I was nervous and  tight, and when the score got to 6-1 -- 6-2 and 4-1, I  realized that I making a big mistake and maybe I will  be sorry after the tournament is over for me.  I  started to think, how I can win the point; how I can  turn the game around, and I was lucky.  I hit a lot of  lucky shots.  I got the rhythm of the game back, and  again, you know, I was very lucky.  Very, very lucky.  


Q.  You are going to play Sampras in the  semifinals?  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Yeah.  


Q.  What do you think of that?  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Well, I think that to play No. 1 in the world  is something very special.  And Pete just showed a very  strong tennis, you know, during the two matches that he  played and during the last week in Antwerp and so, you  know, I am looking forward to playing him.  I obviously  have nothing to lose, but the thing is to play No. 1 in  the world is something special; something that you  don't do every week; something that you should fight  for.  And I won last two matches, and hopefully I  deserve to play against him.  You know, I am really  looking forward to this match.  


Q.  Andre, you said you were very nervous in the  first match.  Are you still nervous now?  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Yeah, absolutely.  


Q.  After the third?  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Absolutely.  It is -- it is a very special  tournament because you get 8 best players in the world  and every player here is a big personality; is the  person who won a few tournaments this year, and the  person who showed a very strong tennis during the whole  year.  So to play immediately from the first round  against the top 8 guys is something very difficult.  I  had three matches in a row, and every one of them was  tight for me.  And I still feel a little bit nervous,  because it is not the usual tournament for me.  It is  something that I only can dream about to play here and  especially to win a few matches.  


Q.  What is the difference between  the first and  the third match?  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  The difference was that I feel more  comfortable than I felt during the first match.  I  would say that since I lost to Michael, I realized that  I am not playing the tennis that I should play, and I  should be more aggressive, and I should control the  situation on the court.  That is what I did during the  last two matches, and still it wasn't enough.  I needed  to have luck, and I got it.  So this is the situation.  


Q.  Andre, I suppose at the beginning of the year  you set a few goals for you.  How much does semifinal  access the goal you have for youself?  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  It is wasn't a goal.  It was a dream for me  to get here.  I couldn't plan being in Frankfurt in the  beginning of the year.  And especially being in the  semifinal in Frankfurt.            So the tournament is not finished for me.  There is matches to come, and I am looking forward to  play.  I am not going to give up anymore.  It is not  that I am here in the semifinals, I am satisfied; no, I  am not.  I want to play and I want to win, so I will do  everything to win.  If I lose I will go for vacation,  but I will die to win.  


Q.  Andre, you are satisfied.  But you are in the  semifinals.  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  I am not satisfied.  


Q.  You're not satisfied?  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Not yet.  


Q.  You don't look too happy; you are in the  semifinal.  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  What is that?  


Q.  You are too tired or -- you don't look  happy.  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  I am not too tired.  The tournament is not  finished yet.  You should realize that, and I am  looking forward to the next match.  I don't want to  stop at the semifinal.  


Q.  Who was the lady who was sitting in the box  next to your coach?  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  It is my grandmother.  


Q.  Thank you.  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  That is why maybe I get lucky twice, because  she was there yesterday and she was here today, so  maybe because of her I got lucky, since she knows me  since I'm that big, so, I am serious, maybe she gives  me the sort of waves, you know, the mental waves that  helped me to be calm on the court, and she also told me  that she prays for God, you know, she prays to God for  me.  So maybe it has something to do with the God as  well, but it is definitely my grandmother.  


Q.  Does she come from Kiev?  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Yes.  


Q.  First visit in Germany?  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Yes.  


Q.  What is her first name?  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Her name is Nina.  


Q.  You are going to have one day off.  The rest,  is that good for you, or would you like to keep going?  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  I would like to get some sleep, first of  all.  And then I would also like to watch Pete  tomorrow, and I also would like to prepare for him  tomorrow with my coach.  And I need the day off because  I played two very late matches, and yesterday I barely  could see.  Hopefully I can sleep today and get some  good rest for tomorrow because if, you know, I am  thinking of beating Pete, you know, I have to be, first  of all, fresh.  Second, I have to play my best tennis.  And, third, I still have to be lucky to beat him.  So  if those three things come together I have a chance,  but I need the day off for sure.  


Q.  Does your grandmother travel with you?  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  First time.  


Q.  Apart from the fact that you played better  since the second set on, did you realize -- did you  have the feeling that Michael Chang was giving you some  help in a certain time of the match or not?  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Yeah, he was making a few unforced errors,  but, you know, I would like to see the videotape of  this match because I think that I put so much pressure  on him on the baseline that he was a little bit nervous  to play short and that is why he was making unforced  errors, which is usual for him.  And besides, he also  played two matches in a row, and probably he was very  tired.  But I have to say, again, I mean, without luck,  I wouldn't be able to win this match.  It was 6-2, 4-2  and 40-15 on his serve.  Normally you have more chance,  I mean, at this time, but you know, I hit a few very  strong shots, you know, they all went in, you know, I  got back in the match.  I was lucky to get back in the  match.  I hold my serve; then I broke him again.  Then  it went on like this, but, you know, I needed this  little bit -- this bit of luck today to come back into  the match because normally I would lose 6-2, 6-2 and  Michael showed a very good tennis during the first and  second set.  And if I -- I would say that I played my  best tennis today, for sure.  Because I hit so many  winners that normally I don't do.  


Q.  Yesterday, you said you beat for the first  time the No. 2 in the world.  Now you have to play the  No. 1.  Do you see a big difference between the two  apart from their tactical characteristics?  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Pete is a stronger player indoor, but Jim is  two times French Open winner and two times Australian  Open winner, and again, to play anyone of them is  something very special - something that you don't do  every week; something that you have to deserve to play  them.  In every tournament if you want to meet Sampras  or Courier, you have to win at least three matches.  And I would say, it would be more difficult to beat  Pete indoors than Jim.  But I will try.  I will try.  I  think if I could beat Courier, even with everything  what happened yesterday and everything what happened  today, I still have a chance to beat Pete.  I mean, why  not?  He is the No. 1 in the world for sure, but you  know, he has been beaten this year, so he is not  unbeatable.  So there is the way that I would have to  find that it is possible to beat him.  I said it will  be very, very difficult.  A few things has to come  together, but I still think it is possible.  


Q.  Would you say that the way you are able to  fight when you are down in matches is a big improvement  this year?  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Absolutely.  Absolutely.  Because you know,  being able to control my emotions and to be able not to  just control them but to fight back is something that I  needed to learn, because I was very nervous, I mean,  very crazy, I would say when I was a junior.  I was  breaking the racket a lot as a junior.  I was breaking  the rackets a lot and I was screaming.  Working with  Alex, you know, he taught me so many things in a  mental way, especially; so, probably without him, I  wouldn't be able to do that.  But he taught me.  Now I  know how to do it.  I am very grateful for this.  And  hopefully I will not lose it.  It is something that  helps me very much.  It is something that I know that I  am able to fight, which is very important.  


Q.  You think you should give a book to Sampras  to read tomorrow?  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Yeah, I should ask Jim to give it.  Because  he definitely didn't help him yesterday, but it is all  jokes.  I mean, you just don't understand because you  see the tennis in a different way.  When you stay on  the court and when the ball flies to you at 150  kilometers an hour, it is something that maybe you  would never feel, you know, when it flies consistently  for three sets.  And you know, to play against this  ball and not just to play against it, but also to  control this ball, it is very difficult, and you can  laugh; you can smile and tell jokes, but when you go on  the court it is business, it is very difficult.  And as  I said, hopefully it will be interesting match because  my goal, when I came here my goal was just to play good  tennis; so now I play good tennis hopefully I can keep  it up, no matter if I win or lose I want to play good  tennis and I want to go for vacation with a feeling  inside that I finished the season in the right way.  And I think it is very important to finish the season  in a good way, have a good vacation and to come  stronger next year.  


Q.  Where will be the vacation, Andre?  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Why you want to join me?  


Q.  Thank you, Andrei.  

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT