ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 17, 1993
Andrei Medvedev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Andrei, was it your best career victory?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Yeah, I think I have never beaten No. 2 in  the world, so maybe it wasn't my greatest match, but it  definitely was the biggest one -- the biggest match,  not the biggest one.   
 

Q.  Now you have the chance to reach the  semifinals.  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Well, I hadn't thought about this when the  score was 5-3, Love-40.   
 

Q.  The winner -- if you win Chang --  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  I understand that.  Michael played two great  matches and my side I have to say that I played one  good match which was that.  I am looking forward to  playing him because I never play him before.  But, you  know, I will go on the court and try to play tennis  because it is already happening to me in the first  match when I put too much pressure on myself and I get  nervous and I couldn't hit the ball, but tomorrow will  be even bigger match, so I will try to concentrate on  the game.  I will not think about being in the  semifinal or lose in the semifinal.   
 

Q.  You said you weren't thinking about the  semifinals at 5-3, Love-40.  What were you thinking  about?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  I was thinking that, well, it was a good try  for the first time being in Frankfurt, and I was  already thinking that if I could make it again, ever,  but then it turned out -- turning back after just one  point, when he make a doublefault, the way he made it,  I thought that I have a chance, a very slim chance, but  I had it, and I was lucky to use it and, well, I was  lucky.   
 

Q.  When you say "the way," what was the  way?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  The first serve he missed, and then the  second serve he was -- he was already thinking that he  won, the way he hit the ball, and it just flew far  away.  It was a big fault, and I understood that he  already won in his mind, so he is already relaxing, and  I thought that at this time maybe I have a chance and I  was trying to play.  He missed the next point.  Then  there was a great return, and that was that.  Normally  it doesn't happen this way, but today I was lucky; I  was very lucky.   
 

Q.  Did you see that he was reading a book in  between games?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  No, I haven't seen it because I had a lot of  my own problems.  Couldn't look after him.   
 

Q.  You have your eyes closed anyway, right?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Yeah, it is too late for me.  Tomorrow will  be another late match and hopefully I can be ready for  this.  But, playing late, it is not such a pleasure  because normally I am in bed 10:30, the latest.  And  now I have to be on the court at 10:45, which is maybe  that is why I won, could be because I was sleeping and  it happens, I don't know, really.  It was funny.  It  was funny.  I wanted to sleep before the match.  I was  dying to sleep.  I was -- my eyes were closing, and I  went on the court and then, you know, the dream -- I  didn't want to sleep.  I wanted to play.  But before  the match I thought it was terrible; the way that I  felt was terrible.   
 

Q.  Seriously, doesn't --  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Seriously.   
 

Q.  Does it look strange that somebody could read  a book during a match?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  It is not strange.  It depends what kind of  book.  If you read love story, maybe it is not very  helpful, but who knows, who knows.  To me, I would read  the book of let us say Rod Laver, or Jimmy Connors, or  Brad Gilbert.  That is not funny.  You ask me the question.  I have to answer it.   
 

Q.  You don't think it is funny?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  No.  I mean, if you read some crime  detective, something like this, maybe, you know, you  lose the concentration.  But if you read about tennis,  let us say you put the mistakes on the list, and during  the changeovers you just read what kind of mistakes you  have, maybe it helps -- I don't know -- for some  players.  Because I am not sure what he was reading.  Maybe that is why he could come back in the second set,  and he was very strong in the third.   
 

Q.  What do you read at the moment?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  I read faxes, normally and letters.   
 

Q.  Who to?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Who to?  To me, the people sending the  letters and faxs and I read them.  I think it is funny.   
 

Q.  Your new tennis shirts are Fila; trying to  make you look like Bjorn Borg?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  I don't think so.  Because I have a feeling  that our styles are a little bit different and, first  of all, you cannot compare any tennis player in the  world to Bjorn Borg.  Because he was -- he is a legend  and, you know, he is the kind of the person that has  never -- has never been born before, and maybe will  never born again, so it is just the close.  It is the  clothing, and I think it looks nice.  Maybe the people  now will remind -- will remember the Bjorn Borg, but I  don't know; I don't know what idea the Fila company  has, but I am sure they have a very good idea because  the clothes looks nice and hopefully it will help me to  play better.  I don't know.  I mean, I wish I could  play like Bjorn.   
 

Q.  Andre, you said in Stockholm you didn't know  exactly how to play tactically in indoor courts.  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Still don't know.  I think you should be more   -- I should come to the net more often.  I should be  more aggressive on the baseline, and I should risk,  because it is just so fast, and I realize that if I  don't risk, my opponent will risk, will approach and go  to the net.  Sometimes I see the short ball, but I hit  it, and I don't go to the net because it is, you know,  it is mental cycle or something.  I still cannot beat  myself.  And I know that if I go to the net, I have a  good chance to win the point, but I am still sort of  afraid to do that.  It is getting better and better day  after day.  Maybe week after week; I don't know how  fast it goes.  But this one proves that I can play.  I  mean, not the best indoor player, but I can play  indoors.   
 

Q.  Didn't Paris change that?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Paris was very tough.  I wasn't in good shape  and the only thing that I was doing I was fighting.  I  was fighting for every point.  I was fighting with  myself; with the opponent; sometimes with the crowd.  And you know, I was lucky to to win.  And the  tournament gave me-- first of all, the tournament put  me here in Frankfurt and then it gave me the confidence  that I can play indoors.  Not that I can be sure that I  go indoors and I can win any tournament I want to win.  But I can play.  It is very important.  I can play and  I can still enjoy tennis the way I enjoy it on the clay  courts.  I find it now more and more attractive, for me  to play indoors.  But I still have so many things to improve to  make my game perfect, because I cannot play volley very  good and I don't move very fast.  I am heavy and I need  to lose some water and I need to do some more physical  exercises.  We have time between the seasons so  hopefully I come back year stronger.   
 

Q.  Thank you.  

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT