ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 16, 1993
Andrei Medvedev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  General impressions first time playing in  this tournament and that match and overall?  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  A little bit nervous.  Bothered me the whole  match.  


Q.  How much?  When you played in Grand Slams,  how much different?  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  A lot.  Because since indoors is not my  favorite surface, it was being in such a big tournament  is very-- for me, it was a dream to get here and to  play.  First match, obviously I was a little bit too  nervous, I would say.  I couldn't -- I was fighting a  lot with myself, and I couldn't concentrate on the  fight against Michael.  It is difficult, but now I know  what it is, so hopefully next round will be better.  I  hope so.  


Q.  You seem to be unable to attack.  In the  first set, you went to the net six times.  You made  only three points.  That was a problem due to your  nerves to Stich?  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Yeah, normally, especially indoors, you have  to be more aggressive.  Especially I have to be more  aggressive because lately I think I have more chances  than before to win the point at the net.  I was a  little bit, you know, too scared or something, to go to  the net.  And to take the approach.  I was not very  confident in my, you know, to hit the ball.  And, you  know, as I said, it bothered me so much that I couldn't  really concentrate in the game.  


Q.  Still you had chances to reach 4-All in the  second.  Were you a little bit more confident at that  point of the match, or not?  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  No.  I was a little bit more confident.  I  needed that break.  I needed to break Michael.  But he  played a good game.  He served well.  Then he played a  good volley on that breakpoint, and, you know, what can  you say?  He served really good today.  Even it wasn't  a great match, but I think he was better than I am  today.  


Q.  Since someone was considering Stich the  favorite of your group, it is probably better that you  played him as first match, and now you have two players  which are not easy, but, I mean - nobody is easy - but  better, because they are baseliners.  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  I would actually prefer to play Michael Chang  in the first round, because I knew that I will be  nervous in the first round, and with Michael at least  you have -- with the other Michael, I would at least  have a chance to get the rhythm of the match, because  he is playing more baseline, and you can hit your  strokes and maybe get the rhythm of the game and  finally, you know, take off and play your game.  But with Stich it was a little bit  different.  His game is different, and even he is  favorite in our group, but I would prefer to play  Michael Chang in the first round than Stich.  But since  the draw is made this way, I had to fight with it, and  today I wasn't successful, so -- but I have two more  matches left, and I will try to take a lesson from this  one.  


Q.  If you would have watched this match on TV,  would it have been boring to you?  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Probably, yeah.  On the professional opinion,  it wouldn't be boring, because then I would see  somebody nervous, and I would already know what it is  even to look on the TV.  But for the spectator, I would  sleep, probably.  


Q.  How does this court - you played other indoor  tournaments this year - how does this court compare in  speed and playability to the other courts indoors?  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  This court is just fantastic.  It is -- I  would say it is one of the best, even the best indoor  court that I played so far, because it feels very  good.  It is not very big and it is not small.  It is  just the right size.  The lights are good.  And the  court, the stadium itself, is made in a way that I feel  great.  I feel very comfortable.  The only thing,  again, it is a shame that I played this way, like I  played today, but it wasn't because the court was fast  or the balls were bad.  It was inside myself.  And, as  I said, the court is great and, you know, I really look  forward to playing another two matches.  


Q.  How is the speed though compared to Bercy in  Paris?  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  It is great.  The court is hard.  I mean, it  is not soft like in Bercy.  And it is pretty slow.  I  mean, the ball bounces high and you really can play  baseline, if you have legs, if you can move.  But you  also can play serve and volley, so I would say it is a  universal.  


Q.  You just told us you did not like this  surface.  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  What is that?  


Q.  Didn't you tell us you don't like this  surface a few moments ago?  

Q.  He said --  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Were you sleeping?  


Q.  You said you don't like the surface.  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  I said I like the surface very much.  


Q.  Sorry, I misunderstood.  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  I mean it feels good.  I don't know, maybe I  get used to indoors so far because I played so many  tournaments indoors this year, but this court is really  great and atmosphere is very nice.  


Q.  Was it a surprise for you that Chang beat  Courier this match?  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  No, it wasn't surprise.  I mean, everyone  here, I guess, can beat anybody.  If you watch the  match, you probably could see that Michael played very  good match, very strong.  And especially on the key  points, he was concentrated so much that Jim had not so  many chances to come back in the second set and even in  the first set.  But you know, it was one match and if  he continues to play like this, if Chang continues to  play like this, he has the chance to win the whole  tournament.  But we will see.  There are other good  players, other very good players, and you know, it is  tennis, it is a sport.  You never know what is going to  happen.  


Q.  A very stupid question in Germany there are  differences in pronouncing your name.  Do you pronounce  it Medvedev or Medvedev?  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Medvedev.  In English it is Medvedev.  In  Russian, you wouldn't be able to pronounce it.  


Q.  Tell us.  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  No, I wouldn't tell you because it is a  wasting of time.  So it is better not to tell, because  then if you try, it hurts me.  Believe me, you have no  chance to pronounce it.  Trust me on my word.  


Q.  Is it difficult to adjust to a tennis court  which just has singles lines?  

ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  It is even better.  I would like every  tournament to have a singles line because when you play  with the doubles lines, it seems to be that the net is  a little bit longer and you have more room for the  court and sometimes I miss it, because it is much nicer  to play on the singles court, much nicer, really.  I  don't know how it would feel on the clay, but indoors  it is very good.  It is really good, I like it very  much.  


Q.  Thank you. 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT