ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 15, 1993
Andrei Medvedev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  I asked your coach about his nationality.  He  said that he was Russian and (inaudible)then I asked  him about your nationality -- which is your  nationality?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Russian.   
 

Q.  You are Russian?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  (inaudible) I live in Ukraine.   
 

Q.  In which town?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Kiev.   
 

Q.  I see.  But who are you going to represent in  Davis Cup?  Will you represent the Ukraine?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Yeah.   
 

Q.  (inaudible);?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  I don't know.   
 

Q.  Your first time in the finals.  How much does  this represent to you, the strides you have made in  your career (inaudible) by being here in Frankfurt?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  It was one of the things that I wanted to  reach at the end of the year.  And at the moment, my  goal is not to (inaudible) not just to be here, but to  play well.  That is what I will try to do.  It is  perfect opportunity for me to play against the best and  I will (inaudible)--   
 

Q.  Andre, you are the youngest player here.  Are  you in awe of the other players, all the new more  experienced -- (inaudible)  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  I feel a little bit uncomfortable because of  there -- so much attention that the players get, but  maybe in three days I will get used to it and besides,  when you get on the court, it is the same.  It is a  matter of tennis.  The only thing different you only  see the (inaudible)  you don't see -- you only see  (inaudible)   
 

Q.  Are you favoring the atmosphere?  Do you like  the atmosphere of this place?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  I like it.  I like it a lot, actually.  I  wish I could come back every year.  But you cannot --  you cannot say (inaudible) but so far, I like it here.   
 

Q.  (inaudible) do many people back in the  Ukraine know that?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  (inaudible) I haven't been there for a  while.   
 

Q.  You are not going to the Grand Slam Cup even  though you qualified; even though there is a lot of  money involved in Munich because you have an arranged  holiday already?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Yes.   
 

Q.  Where will you be when the players are going  to be there?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Not at home.  I will be on vacation.  I will  be vacationing.  Maybe time when the Grand Slam cups I  have my preparation (inaudible)  I will not be able to  come to (inaudible).   
 

Q.  Before you came here today we had attended a  Forum handled by the ATP Tour.  Did you hear about the  discussion?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Yes.   
 

Q.  Television ratings were down; sales of  clothing, tennis clothing sales were down.  People from  all sort of areas connected with tennis worried about  the future.  I mean, you are one of the young players.  What is your view?  Do you sense that maybe tennis is  going to go through a difficult phase -- (inaudible)  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  It is hard to say because (inaudible) maybe  sometimes you don't because--   
 

Q.  Do you you sense that maybe tennis is going  to go through a difficult phase affecting the  television figures?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  It is hard to say because tennis became to be  so fast that maybe sometimes you don't see it very,  very attractive game because you only see aces and lots  of mistakes and unforced errors, but it is not because  the players already getting weak.  It is because the  level of the game is so high.  I think if they maybe  changed the rulings somehow, then, let us say,  (inaudible) or they make the net higher, then maybe it  would be interesting, but (inaudible) as far -- I don't  see any -- I don't know any solutions because the game  is so fast at the moment that you cannot -- sometimes  you don't enjoy it.  Sometimes I watch the tennis on  television myself and I find it boring.  I only look  for the players who is playing just to see the tactical  moves.  But not because I enjoy the game.  Hopefully --  I have no solutions.   
 

Q.  People say that the game needs more  personalities again.  But maybe because the competition  now is so fierce that (inaudible) you can't just sort  of try to be (inaudible) you lose your ranking?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  The level of the tennis is just too high that  you cannot give up your concentration, but I know the  players, they would like to do it, but they just don't  do it because (inaudible) they don't feel like -- and  they don't feel like doing it -- that they feel like  the people already seen it and they don't want to see  it again or something like this.  They maybe afraid to  show it (inaudible) in-- sometimes I feel like doing  funny things, but I don't do it because, you know,  because I don't -- because the people probably would  not accept it.   
 

Q.  When did you start thinking about coming here  (inaudible)  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Saturday.  (inaudible).   
 

Q.  You haven't thought about it before?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  No.  I thought about it but when I really  thought it I have to play now in Frankfurt Saturday,  two days.   
 

Q.  So the beginning of this year?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  At the beginning of this year it was a  dream.  It wasn't something that I felt I can reach,  but I reached it, so I am proud of the work that I have  done with my coach and (inaudible).   
 

Q.  (inaudible) improvements.  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  I would say I need to improve my physical  condition a lot and serve and volley.  I need to learn.   
 

Q.  Did the match in Paris against Ivanisevic,  did that sort of say something to you?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  It just actually was completely finished with  the four matches that I played before I was physically  tired and mentally tired because it is the first time  that I played indoors so successful and to me it was  something new.  It was something that I never been  before and in the finals, it was -- I was out of the  game and it showed me of course that you have a good  serve, you can play better.   
 

Q.  Do you feel fresh now?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Absolutely.   
 

Q.  You had a few days to rest?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Yes.  Now I feel very good.   
 

Q.  Next year, we will expect to see you with a  new serve?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  No.  Just same, but maybe more consistent.  I  will try to.   
 

Q.  When we talked to you at the French Open,  six, eight, nine months ago, you were all saying how  much you were enjoying yourself; then you had a few  problems.  Was that because you found that you went too  fast too quickly?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  It is not because of that.   
 

Q.  Can you --  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  No.  (inaudible) I know exactly what  happened.   
 

Q.  Did your sister (inaudible)  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  I wouldn't tell.  I will not tell.  Don't  even try.   
 

Q.  Would you play doubles with her?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Yeah, but not in the Grand Slam.   
 

Q.  Why not?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Because Grand Slams is a single tournament.  It is not doubles.   
 

Q.  She said she'd like to play doubles?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Yeah, I'd like to play doubles with her, but  not in the Grand Slam.  Grand Slam is singles.  Doubles  is the other tournaments.  (inaudible).   
 

Q.  Do you see her quite a lot?  Do you follow  each other's matches?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Yeah, I watched her tournament in Essen and  we keep in touch for sure.  (inaudible).   
 

Q.  Andre, now let me see, at the beginning of  the U.S. Open we have spoken.  Now you have (inaudible)  now you are one of the eight tennis players here.  Was  it one of your goals?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  No, it wasn't my goal.  But it was a dream.  The goal that you -- you set the goal and go for it.  It was a dream.  (inaudible) here is means a great --  first of all, it means that I have improved a lot since  the last year and during this year, and besides, you  know, it is an unbelieveable ending of the year.  It is  great.  Really great.   
 

Q.  Many people in Germany, they believed before  that you are tired and that you don't want to play here  in Frankfurt even if you have the qualifications?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Yeah, I thought so.  I was going -- I had  (inaudible) have to say thank you because he gave me  the motivation which is hard to -- he gave me the  motivation to play and we had unbelievable -- during  this week, I qualified (inaudible).   
 

Q.  (inaudible)  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  I need to-- I definitely need to work on my  serve and volley game.  Besides this, I think  (inaudible)--   
 

Q.  You are playing (inaudible) what do you say  about your performance with Michael Stich?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Michael had a great year this year.  I think  he deserve to be No. 3 in the world.  I think he has  got the game to be No. 3.  So you know, I played him on  the clay and I lost.  I also played (inaudible)  hopefully you know, I just want to play and I want the  people to enjoy it and maybe if it will be a good  match, I will be happy.   
 

Q.  Michael Chang?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Chang?  I never played against him.  But I  think it will be a very difficult match for me because  he is covering all the court and you have to show  really, really great game.   
 

Q.  Jim Courier?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Jim Courier, same, same like Michael.  I  mean, -- you have to play very, very strong game, very  solid at the baseline.  You have to play well.  You  have to (inaudible) you have to serve, so to win any of  those players, I would be happy to win any.  (inaudible).  But not more than that I would like.   
 

Q.  You are very nice.  You have been personal.  We have been personal; sometimes so serious for you  everything (inaudible)--  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Yeah, it is fun.  Sure it is fun.  So many  people, cameras, flashes, you know, I am not ready for  this first of all and I think -- it is funny.  It is  funny.  I don't have to get that this -- (inaudible) I  am here to play tennis.  Not to smile.  I am smiling  because I am smiling naturally.  To me, it seems to be  very funny when I go out from this (inaudible).   
 

Q.  You have good relationship to German players?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  I have never spoken German.   
 

Q.  How much have you exceeded your expectations  for this year?  You said this is a dream?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Yeah, it is.   
 

Q.  How much have you actually thought would  happen than probably you thought months ago?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  My coach was telling me that I can make it, I  can make it, but I wasn't really sure about that  because it was a child dream.  And being here shows me  that you know, I have proved my tennis which is very  important to me, and it also shows me I can do even  better than I normally think I can.  So being here  showed me that my education was in the beginning of the  year.   
 

Q.  Are you someone who needs reassurance--  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Yeah.   
 

Q.  -- as to how well you are playing?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Absolutely.  Because I don't think that the  level of my game is so high that I don't even-- that I  am not sure enough.  Is that what you mean?   
 

Q.  Perhaps the coach keep telling you that you  can do this; you are able to do this, you will achieve  what you set out to do as long as you believe it?  Sometimes you said that you are not quite sure you are  ready for something?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Because for me it was-- I realized somewhere  deep inside that I can make it, sure, I had the faith  in myself, but you know, to make it, to make it finally  is very something very special, something that you  (inaudible) now you have to concentrate on keeping it  there.  So it is unbelievable --   
 

Q.  Anyway that you can feel in yourself that you  are a better player?  Are there situations you arrive  in that you handle or you can cope with, perhaps last  year you couldn't do?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Sometimes I feel that I am in full control of  the situation no matter what happens, I control it.  But many times not especially against the top 10  players.  You go on the court and they are the same  players like you, even better.  So most of the time  they control the situation.  But --   
 

Q.  But I mean you can't explain some (inaudible)  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Not yet.  Pretty soon.   
 

Q.  How do you change your views on the priority  of the court surfaces on (inaudible)  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  (inaudible).   
 

Q.  Do you see it easier on the other surfaces?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  I feel better because at least now I played  on them and I know what it is.  I know what means hard  court and I know what means grass and I know what means  indoor.  But I would say now -- I would say now I know  it.  I know (inaudible).   
 

Q.  You adjust your game quite a lot when you  move to faster surfaces (inaudible)  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Yeah, sure you have to adjust.  I have to be  more aggressive on the hard court, more aggressive even  more aggressive indoors and has been serve and volley  player at the grass.   
 

Q.  What is the hardest part of the adjustment  level?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  To be more aggressive.   
 

Q.  Mentally?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Yeah.   
 

Q.  What do you want to achieve as a new comer?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  I want to show good tennis.  I want the  people to enjoy my game and I want to win anything.  Sure I am not just here as one person.  I am -- I want  to win for sure.  I want to win a few matches and I  want to go as far as possible.  Both days I would like  to show good tennis.   
 

Q.  What would be most difficult to concentrate  on being in shape or to be (inaudible)  what would be--  what is difficult would be?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  To forget everything here; to be able to go  on the court (inaudible) so many things distract you  that sometimes you feel like you want to be home  (inaudible) keep getting phone calls, people keep  bothering you.  I am disappointed (inaudible).   
 

Q.  You have nothing to lose here?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  I have something to lose for sure.   
 

Q.  What can you lose?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  As I said, if I don't show good tennis I  don't feel like I have finished my season right.  But I  have to lose not order of ranking position or points or  money, it is just the feeling inside that I didn't play  well and this is that bothers me more.  I would like to  play good no matter what if I win or lose but I want to  go in with the feeling that I played the game; I  enjoyed it.   
 

Q.  Didn't understand.  What does it mean tennis  star, now, you feel that you belong to the stars?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  I don't think anyone wants to be stars.  I  don't think any of the players feels he belongs to the  stars.  It is just a word that (inaudible) -- there are  so many we are ranked and we play a little bit better  than that.  Not so much better.  There are so many  other guys (inaudible) something that I just don't  really understand, stars.  I don't feel, really.  To  me, it is a joke.  It is really a joke.   
 

Q.  Do you like Frankfurt?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  It's a great place.   
 

Q.  Would you like to play another one or  (inaudible)?  You don't like it?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  It is fun.   
 

Q.  Andre, one hour here.  You have to sit and  answer questions.  You have 30 minutes left.  You  probably have to answer questions to over 200  journalists, how do you like it?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  It is a joke.  It is fun.  Anyway, no matter  what I say, they will write what they want.  To me it  is fun.  It is wasting time.   
 

Q.  What you have been asked so far most, which  questions repeat?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Designer suit.  My opinion --   
 

Q.  You have to play Stich.  Is it comfortable  for you, I mean, he is the No. 1 in Germany here.  Are  you afraid a little bit that he has too much audience  support behind him?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Yeah, I thinking about this, but I also want  to mention again (inaudible).   
 

Q.  For example, would you -- (inaudible)  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  I have my own suits that I feel comfortable  with.  Look, this is great.  If you take-- when you put  these colors together, you feel like an idiot.  The  designer didn't really look.  The guy who choose this  really, if you were here in Germany, it is okay.  When  you go to Italy, the people will laugh at you or in  France, no?  It is okay.  Your opinion.  Don't get me  wrong, people watch as a sponsor of the ATP and maybe  they will give me this suit for free and they were kind  enough for me to wear it.  I cannot refuse it.  You get  something else, you do something nice with it, besides  every player got it and they want to look-- wanted to  make everyone look the same and why should I refuse  this?   
 

Q.  Do you feel just you take off your?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  You put it on for one hour; then you put back  on what you like.   
 

Q.  What interesting things did you tell all the  other supporters?  Now, you got one whole year on the  tour.  One successful year.  Last year you didn't play  the U.S. and what things have changed for you or do you  see them differently now than in the beginning of the  year or what was changed?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Absolutely.  I know my pockets at the moment  and I know what I can do and what is very hard for me  to do and I know what to expect from myself.  I know  that what I can expect and what I shouldn't.  I can set  realistic goals and go for it.   
 

Q.  Like what?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  It is different.  How I can control the  situation on the court and how I can play against a few  players; how I can cope the pressure of the Grand Slam  tournaments; how I can hold the pressure of two  tournaments in a row.  It has been an unbelievable  year; how to change the surfaces; how to be prepared  for the season.  It is very, very tough.  First I  finish this year and then next year we can already say  and talk to my coach.   
 

Q.  What is the reason you learned all these  things just this year?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  What is the reason?   
 

Q.  Why just this year, all these things happened  with you?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Because I played more matches this year and I  played on all surfaces this year.  I played the four  Grand Slam tournaments and I have been through ups and  downs.  I know what it feels to be down and I know what  it feels to be up, so next year I can already be  prepared if I feel down, how I can put myself back on  the road.   
 

Q.  Do you think they should make the eight best  players in the world look the same?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  It is all jokes about suit designers and when  all the other players came in the players' lounge, I  felt much better because then I thought, God, I am not  alone.   
 

Q.  You were used to school uniforms in Russia?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Absolutely.   
 

Q.  So you could --  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  I spoke with the clerk and we agreed on many  things.   
 

Q.  (inaudible).  

Q.  You will wear it after this tournament?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  It is a joke.  Don't get me wrong, it is a  joke.  You know, I don't feel like I need it.  I am  just saying that it is fun.  Let us say I would say it  this way if I have chance to wear something else, I  would.  But I don't feel like anything this year.   
 

Q.  Andre, this year you had almost as much prize  money as you had the years before.  Has anything  changed in your lifestyle?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Lifestyle?   
 

Q.  Has your life changed, do you have more  problems now or did you --  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  No, my life changed, true, but not much, not  much.  Just sometimes-- first of all, you don't have  time to spend your money.  You play the tournaments all  the time and then, you know, I actually bought little  things that I like.   
 

Q.  Watches?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Watches and clothing and cars and  electronics; just the little things that the kids like  and there is not much to spend it on.  I feel I don't  really think about how much money (inaudible) it is --  I really don't think about it.  It is hard to explain  it is even hard -- I haven't thought about this.  Nothing changed.  It is probably more security; that is  the only thing; probably nothing generally.  You feel  just more relaxed.  You feel a bit more.   
 

Q.  Comfortable?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Yes, absolutely.  Not something that you are  proud of or something that you are ashamed of or  something that you don't like.  You just comfortable.  You play tennis.  You don't care anymore about the rest  of the things.   
 

Q.  When you came to a lot of tournaments people  didn't know you before they covered you; when you  started to play so well.  You were saying different  things at the press conferences.  Some of them were  coming here to listen to you and did you ever feel bad  about this?  Did you ever feel I am just a clown for  them?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  No.  Only felt bad when they write wrong  about that.  The rest of it, as I say, it is a job.   
 

Q.  So you still think about --  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  I am sure you will write what you want so  nobody can control him or her anybody in the room.   
 

Q.  Do you control it sometimes?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  There is no way to control it.  How can I  control it if you are going to write what you want?  No  chance.  To me, it is-- not that I am wasting my time  or something, it is funny spending the time.  I don't  feel good or bad about this.  It is normal.  It is  something that I have to accept because if I don't do  press conference, I get fined and this is what I don't  want.   
 

Q.  Are there any questions you refuse to answer?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Yes.   
 

Q.  Yes?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Personal life.   
 

Q.  Did you learn a lot of German?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  I have a new teacher.   
 

Q.  I didn't know you were practicing German.  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  I am starting.   
 

Q.  How many hours?  Seriously?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Yeah, I mean, easy too learn.  Not like I  have to learn German English.  Easy, if it goes, it  goes.  If it doesn't go, I will keep going; trying  (inaudible).   
 

Q.  Why are you learning (inaudible)?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  I asked this question many times myself.   
 

Q.  When will you be No. 1?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  No comment.   
 

Q.  You don't want to be No. 1?  Are you working  for it?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  No comment.   
 

Q.  Why?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  No comment.  You asked me the question.  I am  not obligated to answer it.  No comment.   
 

Q.  So you know what you can expect from yourself  now.  What can you expect from yourself in the future?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  It is something that when -- now I can  control myself that maybe I can keep it up for a little  bit longer than I did this year.  When I feel down I  know how to get up.   
 

Q.  (inaudible).  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  He has to understand that -- he has to  understand that he made a stupid question.  Otherwise  he will come back and ask it to somebody else.   
 

Q.  Maybe if you tell him what you think about  the question.  He just asked when will you be No. 1?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  When will you be No. 1, he asks.   
 

Q.  Yes.  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  No comment.   
 

Q.  Why don't you say: I cannot answer it like  this?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  No, I say no comment.  It is the best answer.   
 

Q.  If I ask what do you think when you can be  maybe No. 1, you say also no comment?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  No.  This is a question that I would  understand.  Not the question that he --   
 

Q.  Which answer would be?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  To this one, if I improve my baseline; if I  improve my physical condition and my quickness, if I  improve my serve and volley game, if I improve my  mental condition and if I be lucky in the tournaments I  can reach No. 1 in some future.   
 

Q.  (inaudible)  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Maybe if I get it is important.   
 

Q.  You talk about learning German.  Do you have  the time on tour to learn something, German?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  I stay in this country, so the people I think  they like me; especially at the courts where I practice  and they show (inaudible) so I don't feel why should  try to speak German.  Besides, I listened to the people  and I think I can learn it; just will take awhile, but  I think living in this country I feel good that I have  some kind of little goal in the personal mind that I  can learn something, so I will try to achieve it.  I  don't know how soon it is.  There is no minutes, but I  will try to do it as soon as, you know, as I can.  I  got no pressure.   
 

Q.  Where do you live when you are on tour?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  In Karlsberg.   
 

Q.  Your hometown here how much in the year do  you spend?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Not much, but I stay most of the time on the  tour.  I very much like to go to the tournaments before  and I like to feel the atmosphere.  Most of the time I  spend on the tour, (inaudible).   
 

Q.  Do you miss your (inaudible)?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  I don't feel down about it.  I miss it, but I  realize that it is something that there are things in  your life that you cannot get -- you have to sacrifice  and I feel -- I don't feel very bad about this  sacrifice, I feel bad, but I don't feel -- I feel that  it is not nice.  It could be better, but I realize that  it is life.  So I can't help it.   
 

Q.  After your professional --  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  He thinks I am getting better with the  (inaudible) if things will change I would like to go  back to Kiev.  If things do not change I would think  about moving to another country.   
 

Q.  Is there a country that you can?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  It's a country that would actually fit me,  Germany, but I cannot say it is the best country?   
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  If things will change, sure, I would like to  come back to Kiev, but if things do not change, I would  think of moving to the other countries.   
 

Q.  Can you imagine to live in Germany your whole  life.  Is there a country now that you --  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  It is a country that would actually fit me,  Germany, but I cannot say it is the best country that I  have been.  I have been staying here for two years.  I  understand the philosophy of the life in Germany and  the mental mentality of the German people.  I can --  besides it is a great country.  It is a great country.  Very strong country.   
 

Q.  (inaudible)?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  I don't think it touches the (inaudible).  I  don't think if it would, I would go somewhere else, but  I really don't think that the people are that stupid to  bother the sports people.   
 

Q.  Foreigners in --  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  That is what I am saying.  I am a foreigner,  but you know, I also bring the money to this country,  so.  I pay tax on the prize money that I make.   
 

Q.  The people on the street?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Believe me, they know it.  Germans, they know  it because of the press.  They have unbelievable  press.  They write so much.  It is true, I am not  saying it is bad, but I am saying it is huge.  The  people read the newspapers and about the sports they  give so much attention to the sport that the people  just cannot -- you cannot miss it because it is in  every magazine you can read about sports.   
 

Q.  Sometimes you have problems with the German  philosophy?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Sometimes.   
 

Q.  Which cases?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Most of the times is that they-- the German  people they like to stay on their own, let us say, this  is three Germans and you are aiming here, you are  aiming here; you wouldn't go three together; you would  go like this.   
 

Q.  Different to Italy?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  It is not like -- I don't have difficulties  with that.  It is something that I don't really  understand, but I don't have problem.  It is okay.  Because I would prefer also to go on my own  personally.  I wouldn't mind to -- it is really a  little things that sometimes just don't understand but  they are so little that I don't even pay attention to.  I understand that I am in the other country and I  cannot ask the people to change.  I have no right to  ask the people to change and I accept it like this.  And besides -- (inaudible).   
 

Q.  I know it is is a long story, but can you  tell me a little bit about your rules in sports, how  difficult it was and who you have to play to learn  tennis?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  It was actually fun to play tennis, fun,  because we had nothing.  We had the wood rackets.  We  had very bad courts and let us say the club was 300  kids including (inaudible).   
 

Q.  I didn't understand.  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  When I was growing up we had really in our  club we had 300 members including the (inaudible)  juniors and we only had one indoor court.  Just one.  And it was fun.  Everyone like you see 20 people on the  one court.  It is fun.  Seriously.   
 

Q.  20 people on one court?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Yeah, you play half court.  You make one shot  and you go on the line to wait for the second -- it is  a lot of fun.  But it was a huge family.  Everyone was  helping each other and sure it was difficult.  I look  back it was difficult, but it was lots of fun.  I  enjoyed it very much.  At the moment I miss it because  there was a team.  There was you know, it was really a  family that you cannot-- you don't see in any other  country.  It was a huge family.  Everyone knew each  other and everyone was helping each other.   
 

Q.  Is it still the same in Kiev?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  It is -- it is the same, but because of the  you know, economics situation we don't have you know,  enough sponsors and we don't have enough people to care  about tennis very much.  They only care to survive  until the next day.  That makes it difficult, but the  people are still trying, they are working.   
 

Q.  Have you learned anything this year from your  press conferences?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Yeah.  I learned a lot.   
 

Q.  Like what?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  In the U.S. I should keep my mouth shut.  That is for sure.  And I learned that in Germany too  also.   
 

Q.  In U.S. because?  
 
ANDREI MEDVEDEV:  Because American don't understand me.  They  think I am a lunatic.  It is better to keep my mouth  shut.  But the rest of the world, you know, Germany,  you cannot control.  You would be nice guy to them they  make you an asshole in the paper.  Sorry.  You cannot  control the situation.  But the rest of the Europe, I  think is very good because there are the journalists;  they always travel on the tour and they know me, so  they want to write something that I never say.  So I  learned that I should come in the press conference any  time they ask.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT