U.S. OPEN
September 3, 1996
Andrei Medvedev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. What did you think of him today and in general?
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: Well, obviously he's a great player, very talented. I think he played
well today. If he keeps playing like this, he has a good chance to win. 
 
Q. Did he surprise you with anything today?
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: No. I expected him to come out strong and serve well, hit his forehand
well. He gave me chances. It was up to me to convert them. He played well and he deserves
it. 
 
Q. What advice did Bob Brett give you about playing Goran?
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: I think it's private. I don't think it should be discussed with the
press. 
 
Q. Finally let you play on a major court at this tournament today. Did you feel
slighted at all having to play on the outside courts?
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: No. It was a bit different for me to play in the center court because
I played on the center court of the big events for almost a year now. For about 15
minutes, I was a bit confused. But I practiced two times on center court this week, so
it's not really an excuse. After 15 minutes, I was fine. 
 
Q. You don't feel good now about losing. Tomorrow morning, perhaps, when things have
calmed down a little bit, will you think, "I've had a few good weeks in a row"?
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: I realized that I played some good tennis. I'm very disappointed, not
so much with the fact that I lost, even though it's enough to be disappointed, but with
the way I lost. I think I had great chances to win in both third and fourth set, I had
breakpoints, and I should have convert them. I made the wrong shot selections, didn't
really go for my shots. I think this I would regret; I would play those points
differently. But overall I think I played okay. It's not enough to win the big
tournaments. 
 
Q. Do you see that your ability now to attack at the net and be very good at the net
now has changed your game in a big way?
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: Well, we've worked on that since the beginning of the year, with Bob.
My game is getting better, I'm more aggressive, cover the net more, I feel more
comfortable. I think I should have come to the net a bit more today. I needed some of the
free points that I could get at the net. There's another nothing -- it's another thing I
regret that I didn't do. 
 
Q. Here you are 21, 22, isn't it amazing to you that you could have started doing this
three years ago and how much farther along you would be by now?
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: I think it takes my understanding to do this. If I just do it because
coach tells me to do that, I don't think it's right. I have to understand what I'm doing.
Three years ago, I didn't understand this kind of game can be successful for me. Now I
realize that I can play and I see the result is good and I keep working on it keep
improving. It's disappointing because I thought I had a game to go further than the fourth
round. I mean, once again, it's a good lesson. I hope I do well. 
 
Q. Where will you go from here, Andrei?
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: I'm scheduled to play in Bournemouth next week on clay in England. I
think this will be the next one for me. 
 
Q. Whose is the toughest serve to return among the current players?
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: A few players have a great serve. It's not that much the speed, it's
the disguise of the serve. Goran has a pretty good disguise. There are a couple more guys
that serve quite well, placement of the serve as well. Goran will be in the top three for
sure. 
 
Q. Is it to say the key was when you had 15-40 in the first game, then you lost your
service game?
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: That was a big swing for me because I had the momentum on my side at
15-40. I should have broke him then. I saw he was getting really confused. This game was
big. Once again, I knew that it's big. I made the wrong shot selections. I mean, this is
something that I will regret for sure until the next time we meet. It's a good lesson.
Unfortunately it's too expensive. Life will go on, I mean. I try to correct myself already
tomorrow -- I mean, today. Unfortunately now the chance is gone. 
 
Q. Goran has not won a title in the United States. Why do you think that is?
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: I don't know. You should ask Goran. 
 
Q. How difficult is it for you to be different personally? You were just so open before
and right now you're focused on tennis here? You're not as open as you have been before.
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: Excuse me? 
 
Q. How difficult is it to be different? 
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: It's not different. I know what I'm here for. I'm here to win. I'm
here to play tennis. I'm not here to talk to anybody. I understand that it's part of my
job, the part that I like. I think my personality hasn't changed. Talking about other
things than tennis will just disconcentrate me. I'm here to play tennis only, not to talk
about my private life or any other things. When I come here, I'm talking about tennis. I
try to stick to answer questions, but that's it. My personality hasn't changed. 
 
Q. It has changed because you grew up, some bad experience, but your coach told you,
"Just focus on tennis"?
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: No. Once again, I'm a bit older than 18 and 19, more experience in
life, on the tennis circuit. Before I didn't know that it takes lots of energy to talk
about other things. Now I'm here for tennis. I feel that every word that is said which
doesn't concern tennis is a distraction. I know that it's not good for me, not good for my
job. That's why I'm more serious. But once again, the tournament is over now for me. If
you give me some time, I'll be normal. 
 
Q. You spent a year on the ATP players board. You're no longer associated with that.
Are you disappointed with that year?
 
 ANDREI MEDVEDEV: I felt that it was tough to change something. It was difficult to
change the things that we wanted to change. I didn't want to be responsible for players
because, once again, it was taking my mind away from tennis in a way. Secondary, I'm a
responsible guy and I couldn't be responsible for so many players. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT