NBA FINALS: CELTIC v LAKERS
June 15, 2010
Kobe Bryant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 loose coming into this game; is that right?
 KOBE BRYANT: Yeah. 

 Q. How was that? There was quite a bit of pressure on this, right? 
 KOBE BRYANT: Yeah, but you know, it's part of it. I mean, it really doesn't bother me too much.

 Q. Was there a danger of coming out in this game and being too tight, playing too hard?
 KOBE BRYANT: Yeah, there's a danger, but we're used to being in must-win situations. The way we look at it, it's just a game we've got to win. We've been in must-win situations before, so we have to approach it the same way.

 Q. When is the last time, Game 7 in Houston?
 KOBE BRYANT: Game 7 in Houston. We've had critical Game 5s on our home floor. Those situations prepared us. 

 Q. The media is savoring this dream where Lakers and Celtics go to a Game 7. What does it mean to you, you've never been in Game 7 in The Finals, you're facing the other team that's been the dominant NBA team. It's a classic match-up on paper, historically, as well. What does it mean to you to be in Game 7 in The Finals and against the Celtics?
 KOBE BRYANT: No different to me. I don't mean to be a buzz kill, but it's not. I know what's at stake, but I'm not tripping.

 Q. Can you talk about what's in your mind, your heart, what does a Game 7 in The Finals mean to you?
 KOBE BRYANT: It's a game we've got to win, simple as that. I'm not going crazy over it. We've got to take care of business. 

 Q. Maybe I'm overexcited about it, but if someone told you before the season, one game at home for the title, what would your thoughts have been?
 KOBE BRYANT: We've got to win it.

 Q. Are you happy with that opportunity?
 KOBE BRYANT: No. The opportunity is not something that makes me happy, it's winning and taking advantage of the opportunity that makes me happy. That buzzer goes off and we're not victorious, am I thankful for the opportunity? Nope. 

 Q. You've been preaching all playoffs long about defense, defense, defense. You have to be pretty happy tonight, right?
 KOBE BRYANT: I was very happy. We did a great job defensively, we kept them out of the middle, kept them out of the paint, did a good job on the boards. You know, it was a solid effort by us. 

 Q. How does the way you won this game affect the mindset going into Game 7? And a lot of the fans are asking, where was this last week?
 KOBE BRYANT: It doesn't affect it at all. You've got to forget about this game as you forget about a tough loss. Forget about it, move onto the next one. 

 Q. The team that's controlled the rebounding has won every game in this series, and tonight at one point I think it was 17-4. I think you finished way ahead of them on rebounds. Was that a point of emphasis? Talk a little bit about how you controlled the boards. And was that a conscious effort to do that?
 KOBE BRYANT: It definitely was. We understand the importance of rebounding and getting to those balls that pop loose. You see a lot of guys on the floor tonight and getting after them. Those are things that change the complexity of the game. It's something we're consciously trying to do.

 Q. Does it take a special mentality, a special type of fortitude to be at your best in a Game 7?
 KOBE BRYANT: I don't know, I don't think so. How I approach it is going out there and doing what I always do. It's not because it's Game 7 you've got to do anything different, but if you play hard all the time, you've just got to do the same thing you're accustomed to doing.

 Q. Have you seen other players in the league that kind of melt in that situation, though, a Game 7?
 KOBE BRYANT: Have I personally seen it? No, I personally have not seen it. But I am sure it happens. It's part of it. 

 Q. This kind of reminds us of the team we saw going into Game 6 in Denver last year, Game 7 in Houston. You had a rough and tumble series and then kind of found something. Did you find that zone this morning, the meditation session? Did you feel confident going into it?
 KOBE BRYANT: We were confident, but in terms of finding rhythm, I guess that's a dangerous way to think when you're playing the Celtics. You can't think that way. They make great adjustments. I'm sure they'll make adjustments for the next one.

 Q. So what was it, though, a team, everybody contributing?
 KOBE BRYANT: We executed. We executed extremely well. You didn't see us blow too many assignments and get too many easy opportunities which we did in Boston, and then on top of that, we had a lot of effort behind the execution, and because of that we had a big win. 

 Q. You got your first rest in the second quarter. You guys had a 15-point lead, and in three minutes they moved it to 20 with you on the bench. Given how little help you ended up getting last game on both sides of the ball, can you talk about the significance of them doing that without you?
 KOBE BRYANT: It has nothing to do with the last game. It's all about the present, and they did a great job. We have an explosive bench, and they got after it tonight defensively, got the loose balls, got out on transition, made big plays, which is something that they're extremely capable of doing. 

 Q. Last game was so different, and even throughout the series, the change-over, is it an effort, is it focus? Why such a flip? Both teams seems like they have the opposite problems game to game. 
 KOBE BRYANT: For us it was execution. We didn't execute well defensively. We just missed a lot of coverages. But a lot of it was what they were doing and adjustments that they made that put us in situations where it was compromising our defense. Tonight we made the adjustment and then had the effort to go along with it. 

 Q. Talk about Ron helping getting you guys jump started and also the bench play tonight. 
 KOBE BRYANT: Ron played extremely well on both ends of the ball. He was patient offensively and took the opportunities that were given to him. And defensively he made things tough for Paul, and Paul is a tough cover, and he did a good job on him. 

 Q. From your perspective, how much of a disadvantage was it for the Celtics when Perkins got injured?
 KOBE BRYANT: Well, it's a big disadvantage. Teams are used to playing with a certain lineup. We've been through that. We've gone through that this year with guys coming in and out of the lineup, and it's tough because you've got to adjust. He's a big presence for them defensively, on the boards. He's a big emotional leader for the team. I'm sure it didn't help them, him going down. 

 Q. With Fisher in foul trouble tonight, can you talk about what you got from the three guards off the bench. 
 KOBE BRYANT: Well, I thought they did a great job defensively. That's always where it starts for us is the defensive end. And they gave a great effort, understood their assignments, and they picked Fisher up when he was in foul trouble.

 Q. And then also what you got from Odom and Gasol tonight. 
 KOBE BRYANT: Well, Pau was sensational. He just played a great game, single coverage, scoring the ball. Was double-teamed, made plays for others. 
 Odom, it's constant effort, constant energy, offensive glass, also pushing the ball in transition and creating a lot of opportunities where you have hockey assists just by pushing the ball. 

 Q. Do you sense the squad has the intention to close this thing out on Thursday night, big Game 7?
 KOBE BRYANT: They don't have a choice. Got to. 

 Q. Intention?
 KOBE BRYANT: Intention, yes. 

 Q. Do you think there's any chance there will be any surprises in Game 7, or do you see teams showing everything they have to show?
 KOBE BRYANT: No, I'm sure there will be. Doc is a hell of a coach with a hell of a coaching staff, and I'm sure there will be quite a few wrinkles.

 Q. What about from your side? 
 KOBE BRYANT: There will be some on our end, too. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT