NBA FINALS: CELTIC v LAKERS
June 10, 2010
Kobe Bryant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Los Angeles Lakers 89
  Boston Celtics  96

 Q. Could you describe the ebb and flow of the second half. First half you guys seemed to have control, second half the Celtics put down, as I like to see, the MDE, the mad death energy, and they seemed to control the flow in the second half. What was the breakdown of the Lakers in that second half? 
 KOBE BRYANT: They got all the energy points, the hustle points, second-chance points, points in the paint, beat us to the loose balls. I mean, that's how the game turned around. 

 Q. Talk about just the Celtics' defense and what you've seen from it the last couple games. How do you describe it now that you've gotten to get really close to it?
 KOBE BRYANT: They're a great scheming team. They have a strategy in place, and they execute extremely well. I feel pretty comfortable. Wasn't pleased with the way I took care of the ball tonight. I thought I did a horrible job of that. But it's a great defense. 

 Q. How would you compare it to some of the more challenging defenses you've faced this season? 
 KOBE BRYANT: Oh, it's right up there with the best of them. 

 Q. Did you tweak your knee early in the game, and did it affect anything you did throughout the game?
 KOBE BRYANT: No. 

 Q. Absolutely not?
 KOBE BRYANT: No. 

 Q. Coach Jackson suggested that maybe you were a little bit tired tonight. Were your legs a little bit tired tonight or worn out?
 KOBE BRYANT: Nope. 

 Q. Can Bynum come back in a few days do you think? How bad did he look back there just now?
 KOBE BRYANT: I think he'll be fine. I think he'll bounce back and give it a go.

 Q. Obviously you guys missed him tonight?
 KOBE BRYANT: Oh, yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. He should be fine, though. 

 Q. Can you talk about the individual match-up with Tony Allen. He wasn't a big part of the team in 2008 when you guys played them, and he's playing a lot against you individually defending you. 
 KOBE BRYANT: He does a great job. He plays hard, he competes, and he's a good solid defender. I'm enjoying it. 

 Q. Can you guys do anything to free you up off of him, make some adjustments for next game? 
 KOBE BRYANT: I'm not really too concerned about it to be honest with you. I'm more concerned about getting rebounds and getting the loose balls and stuff like that. When push comes to shove, I can always get a bucket. 

 Q. Can you describe how Bynum's absence changed the dynamic of the game for you guys?
 KOBE BRYANT: Well, we didn't have that big presence in the middle, and Big Baby took full advantage of it, took full advantage of it, and he played extremely, extremely well for them, as did Nate.

 Q. If he can't go into next game or can only go limited minutes, how do you compensate for that?
 KOBE BRYANT: We'll just figure it out. I'm not sure how yet. We've played without him obviously in the lineup before. We got a good rhythm going with him in the lineup. We'll just figure it out. 

 Q. Can you talk about just how this game is called in relation to the first three? Seemed like a much more physical game, and what that did to affect both you guys and the Celtics. 
 KOBE BRYANT: They've all been physical games. We had a couple players in foul trouble even tonight just because of the physicality of the series. I don't want to say it was officiated any different than the previous ones. 

 Q. Can you speak about the game of Pau Gasol today, please, and how important he is going to be? I know he's been important right now, but without Andrew Bynum in the lineup. 
 KOBE BRYANT: Pau has been playing great. He had a great game again tonight. You know, I mean, he's -- the offense starts with him a lot of the times by throwing the ball in the post to him and making good decisions and reads and scoring when we need him to score and defending when we need him to defend. He's playing great. 

 Q. Can you talk about a couple things, one, about every team that's won the rebounding war has won the game; you guys lost that tonight. And talk about the importance of Fisher being out, only playing 30 minutes, you having seven turnovers because you have to handle the ball more. How much did him being out affect your team today?
 KOBE BRYANT: Well, I mean, it affects us drastically on the defensive end of the floor as well as the offensive end of the floor because he does the majority of the ball handling, making sure we get into our offense and things flow. 
 In terms of me having seven turnovers that's just me playing like crap. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT