NBA FINALS: CELTIC v LAKERS
June 6, 2010
Kobe Bryant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Boston Celtics  103
  Los Angeles Lakers  94 
   
  Q. Can you just talk about the disappointment, losing the home-court knowing you have to win one in Boston to get back here.   
 KOBE BRYANT: We fought pretty hard to get back in the game, and then we let the game slip away.   
  
  Q. I asked you about the home-court issue.   
 KOBE BRYANT: Well, we've just got to go into Boston and win.   
  
  Q. What do you see in Lamar's game right now? And what do you think he needs to do to be a little bit more productive for you guys?  
 KOBE BRYANT: Just stay out of early fouls.   
  
  Q. Last game you guys had a substantial advantage in the paint. Is that one of the key factors that you guys beat them with?  
 KOBE BRYANT: Yeah, the key factor is turnovers. You can't turn the ball over. We'll continue to pound the ball inside but we can't give them easy baskets in transition.   
  
  Q. What happened in that fourth quarter? Que pasa in that fourth quarter? You're going tied and then the ball always seemed to bounce into the Celtics' flow.   
 KOBE BRYANT: Just causing turnovers down the stretch.  
  
  Q. That's it?  
 KOBE BRYANT: That's it.   
  
  Q. Were you surprised when you got that fifth foul early in the fourth? And was it difficult to play with five fouls on the board?  
 KOBE BRYANT: You've just got to be careful. I don't expect to picking up five fouls the next game.  
  
  Q. Can you just talk, I know Phil talks about this all the time. What is the process that basketball players go through when you're dealing with quick whistles? How do you read officials and how do you guys determine how to based on what the officials call?  
 KOBE BRYANT: You've got to play. You've got to play your game and let the whistles sort themselves out.   
  
  Q. Ray Allen was just on fire in that first half. You're used to being perhaps on the other side of that, where you're the one putting up big numbers. Talk about what you do as a team to try to stop some of that.   
 KOBE BRYANT: You try to take the ball out of his hands as much as possible.  
  
  Q. And when he doesn't have the ball he's coming out of screens.   
 KOBE BRYANT: He's catching it. You've got to try to deny him and force him off his sweet spots. He was hot.   
  
  Q. Perfect example here of one game to another doesn't really mean anything, especially in The Finals. Each one is a new experience. The thought about going into Boston?  
 KOBE BRYANT: It's a series. You're trying to stay even keel. You don't get too high, don't get too low after a win or a loss. You just go into the next one and take care of business.  
  
  Q. When you are playing in foul trouble, how much do your opposing teams, the opposing teams, try to do things to get you out of the game or at least see if you're going to become passive?   
 KOBE BRYANT: Yeah, I'm sure it's part of the strategy at some point. As players you've just got to play through it and just try to be smart.  
  
  Q. Did you sense the Celtics saw that as a point of vulnerability or anything?   
 KOBE BRYANT: Yeah, at certain times of the game but not really, not much.   
  
  Q. Andrew said that you guys didn't lose home-court until you lose Game 3. How much does that make Game 3 important to just take it right back as if you were up 2-0?  
 KOBE BRYANT: It's the most important game. Game 1 was the most important, Game 2 was the most important, now it's Game 3.   
 It's just the next game, simple as that.   
  
  Q. What do you take positive out of this game? I know Andrew had a big 21-point performance. Can you comment on those two things?   
 KOBE BRYANT: It has nothing to do with scoring. Nothing. It's all defensively. We gave them too many easy baskets and blew too many defensive assignments. That's it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT