NBA FINALS: CELTIC v LAKERS
June 2, 2010
Kobe Bryant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. In the first round Ron had to guard Durant, now Pierce. Can you just talk about what it is to have to guard two guys that are that different in terms of style and things like that? 
 KOBE BRYANT: Yeah, it's different for him. The similarity that they have is that they're both great catch-and-shoot players, use multiple screens to come off and things like that. So there's some similarities there. But you've just got to change your game plan. We've got to change our game plan. Certain players do things well and you've just got to read those things and make your adjustment.

 Q. What does that say about him as a defender?
 KOBE BRYANT: He's a great defender. I think everybody knows that. He's one of the best. 

 Q. How would you rate Rajon amongst the best point guard players in the league? And can you see having to guard him at some point?
 KOBE BRYANT: I think he's one of the best, and I say that because he plays both ends of the floor extremely well. He can do certain things offensively. I think defensively is where he really has a big impact on the game, as well. I mean, there's some similarities between him and Westbrook. Not many. Westbrook was more of a power guard; Rajon picks his spots a great deal and he's more of a facilitator.

 Q. Have you been impressed from his ascension to basically a late-first round pick that nobody knew of, and what does that say about him?
 KOBE BRYANT: I always get a kick out of seeing players nearly come from nowhere and everybody kind of counts them out. I think that says a lot about his work ethic and his attention to detail. He seems to be a great student of the game.

 Q. I think along those lines you have six inches on him in height. How do you stick with him when you are on him?
 KOBE BRYANT: We'll see. He's quick as lightning, so we'll see. 

 Q. A little history about this match-up, obviously you know the history going way back to the '60s, '50s. Does that impact at all the way you view the intensity leading up to this series? Is there intensity? Do you view them as a rival or are you still bothered by two years ago?
 KOBE BRYANT: I only think about this one match-up. The happy times of Magic winning against Boston or the sad times of Jerry West losing to them has no impact on me whatsoever. I have a series to play. I have a series to win. I'll just focus on that.

 Q. Does the match-up, though, is this a special match-up in your mind, though?
 KOBE BRYANT: No. 

 Q. Phil's teams are 47-0 when they win the first game of a series. It's kind of a weird stat, but the more it goes on, the more it seems less coincidental. Do you think it means anything? Do you think guys ever think about that? Have you seen that stat?
 KOBE BRYANT: Yeah. I don't know what to make out of it, to be honest with you. It's just one of those things that's just coincidence, but it's such a staggering number. You still can't put your finger on what that exactly means. But it's extremely impressive. 

 Q. You shared a fun moment with Alvin Gentry in Game 6. As far as Doc Rivers, does he seem like the type of coach that guys would want to play for if they haven't played for him? What are your impressions of him?
 KOBE BRYANT: I love Doc, and I love his personality and the relationship that he has with his players. I had a moment to spend some time with him over the All-Star Break a couple years ago. He just happened to be on the same bus for a function, and I had a chance to kind of talk to him a little bit. He's just a down-to-earth guy, just extremely sharp, prepares extremely well, and I think he's the type of coach guys would love to play for. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT