NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v LAKERS
May 29, 2010
Kobe Bryant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Kobe. 

 Q. Can you talk about what went through your mind when they cut that 18-point lead down to 3. At that point did you feel like you had to take over? 
 KOBE BRYANT: Just had to keep attacking. Had to stay aggressive. The thing is, when that happens, you have a tendency to want to be a little too passive, instead of playing the same way that got you the lead. 

 Q. One thing you haven't done in your career is beat the Celtics. Wondering how much that eats at you and what you feel like getting another chance at them now? 
 KOBE BRYANT: Well, you know, just looking forward to the challenge of it. Last time we played them, it was a great learning experience for us. You know, it taught us what it takes to be a champion. With the defensive intensity they play with, the tenacity they play with, we learned a great deal in that series. 

 Q. The finals, you are 8 and 0 at home, 4-4 on the road, what do you need to do to prepare mentally for games three and four in Boston? 
 KOBE BRYANT: We'll worry about it when it gets to it. 

 Q. At the point they got it to three, there was some great defense played by you. Looked like you willed the ball in. Can you talk about the last three possessions you had. 
 KOBE BRYANT: Well, solid defense. They had help coming from the weak side with traps and things like that, so it made it difficult for me to get to the basket. 
 You know, I just had to create a little bit of space. I had a good look. Looks like a much tougher shot than it actually is. I got a good look. Got my legs underneath me. I was able to knock it down. 

 Q. Can you talk about the conversation after that at all? 
 KOBE BRYANT: I just patted him on the butt. 

 Q. You played Rajon Rondo when you played the Celtics. Before, he was a guy who could fall off. Now he's kind of the guy that makes it happen for them. Are you looking forward to playing him again? Is it different? 
 KOBE BRYANT: Not really sure. I mean, we'll see. We'll see. Haven't really had a chance to look at him, aside from just mere entertainment, watching games. He's really turned into a helluva player. 

 Q. How much have each of these three rounds prepared you to be where you need to be entering the finals? Any aspect of your game that you feel is lacking for the Lakers or is everything clicking? 
 KOBE BRYANT: We're good. We're good. We're playing a different style of ball now. We've had three series here, which every single one of them have been different. Now we're going to this series where the level of intensity and physicality is going to be at an all-time high. They still do a great job of getting out in transition. This series prepares us well for that. 
 But we're not looking at games that are 115 or 110 point range. 

 Q. What was the exchange between you and Gentry after your key shot after Hill? Looked like you kind of tapped him a little bit. 
 KOBE BRYANT: After I knocked down the shot, I just heard him mutter something like, "That's BS," you know, something to that effect about the shot. Just made me smile. 

 Q. You said on the broadcast you wanted to kill Sasha after the game. Can you elaborate on that? 
 KOBE BRYANT: He's still breathing (smiling). 

 Q. Obviously you didn't have Bynum the last time you had the Celtics in the final. You have Artest to check Pierce. What do you think those two changes in the roster make? 
 KOBE BRYANT: We'll see. Pierce is a very tough matchup. He's very smart. He's one of the few players that has a long ball, has midrange game, can get to the basket. I think that makes him tough to cover, but Ron is up for the challenge. 

 Q. Andrew is not a hundred percent going into this series either. He said he would be good for maybe 20, 24 minutes in the next series. Is that significant that you at least have him for that period of time, given you never had him the last time you played the Celtics? His synchronisity in the low post, how significant or important is that in order for you guys to be able to beat the Celtics this time? 
 KOBE BRYANT: I think they have to be on the same page defensively more so than offensively. Offensively they're both very skilled. If they miss assignments offensively, their talent can make up for it. I think defensively is where they have to be on the same page. 
 It helps having him against this Celtics team. They're a big team a physical team. I'm excited for him. This is a big challenge for him. 

 Q. There's some guys in the locker room saying there's a score to settle from two years ago, that that has stayed with you. Others are saying it's ancient history. What camp are you in? Is '08 still with you or not? 
 KOBE BRYANT: It's a great challenge for us to see how much we've improved, how much we've gotten better, to be able to go up against this team in a playoff series, so... 

 Q. Do you feel like there's a score to settle? 
 KOBE BRYANT: I didn't give a damn who we played. Didn't matter to me. 

 Q. Even though you were able to avenge '08 by winning a title, have you been conscious of a little fire burning or does that only resurface now that the moment is here? 
 KOBE BRYANT: The challenge is to win the championship. The Celtics are in the way. They feel the same way about us. Obviously this is a matchup, it's very easy to talk about. There's a lot of things that people can write about and talk about. It's a sexy matchup. 
 We're looking forward to this challenge, looking forward to the test. When the ball goes up, we'll be ready to go. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT