NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v LAKERS
May 26, 2010
Kobe Bryant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Kobe, listening to you talk yesterday about defense was the problem. If defense was the problem yesterday, was it a matter of effort or knowing where everyone was supposed to go?   
 KOBE BRYANT: It was a lack of execution. Just miscommunication on assignments.  
  
  Q. Are those assignments easily fixed?   
 KOBE BRYANT: Sure.  
  
  Q. In what way?   
 KOBE BRYANT: Just go over the film and execute it better.  
  
  Q. This Series and the Oklahoma Series going into a Game 5, how does that stand emotionally?   
 KOBE BRYANT: It's fine. I mean, it's just the similarities are that we played two good games at home, and played two bad games in a row.  
  
  Q. What was the difference in the first two games?  
 KOBE BRYANT: We executed much better. You know, we didn't miss as many assignments as we missed the last two games. If we leave those guys wide open, somebody's going to get it.   
  
  Q. How much time do you spend in the day working against the zone?   
 KOBE BRYANT: I spend a little bit, not much.  
  
  Q. Why has it given you problems the last two games?   
 KOBE BRYANT: Zone's fine. We scored enough points.  
  
  Q. They have more confidence going in now than they did in the start of the Series, how do you think it might affect these last three games?   
 KOBE BRYANT: Well, they play like a team that's going to the Conference Finals.  
  
  Q. The fact that they have so many three-point shooters they can put on the floor, what kind of a challenge is that for you guys?   
 KOBE BRYANT: It's a challenge, but we've got to do a great job keeping it out of the paint. The three-point shots, you'll make some, miss them.   
 But we've got to keep them off the paint, keep them off the free-throw line.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 KOBE BRYANT: No, we're fine.  
  
  Q. Talk about offensively. Have you fallen in love with the three a little more than you'd like to in the last couple of games?   
 KOBE BRYANT: Yeah, probably. We've got to do a better Job attacking and getting to the paint.  
  
  Q. You were so hot in that second quarter getting it from all over the place. In the fourth quarter you didn't have the same impact. Were you getting a little tired, were they not giving you the ball, what happened?   
 KOBE BRYANT: No, I mean, it just to catch the ball and you have three guys around you, somebody else is open.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about getting some help defensively (indiscernible)?  
 KOBE BRYANT: No.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 KOBE BRYANT: Sure is. We've got to keep them off the free-throw line.  
  
  Q. By any chance you guys have a little extra air of confidence though knowing that you've done it before?   
 KOBE BRYANT: Yeah, I mean, we did it in Portland. But this is a different year, different season, different team.   
  
  Q. With the Series as far as becoming part of the equation just controlling the paint, how much of that is a concern to you?   
 KOBE BRYANT: It's a concern, but did a pretty good job in the course of the game. But they had spurts where they got hot, knocked down a couple big threes and changed the momentum. So we have to do a better job managing the game throughout.  
  
  Q. Talk about a sense of urgency. Is there more urgency tomorrow in Game 5?   
 KOBE BRYANT: I always think there is.   
  
  Q. In Oklahoma City they were asking questions about the Lakers. And said, hey, what the heck's going on here? 2-2, we still have home-court advantage. Is there more concern now than there was then?   
 KOBE BRYANT: I don't know. For us it's always the same. Everybody else in L.A. maybe it's the same as the last Series in Oklahoma. I don't know.  
  
  Q. You mentioned after the game that you spent some time worrying about the zone. Did you guys today stop worrying about it?   
 KOBE BRYANT: I mean, you know, offensively we're going to score enough points. We're shooting a high percentage, but defensively we've got to do a much better job.  
  
  Q. Did you guys adjust to the zone though as well as you would have liked in that last game?   
 KOBE BRYANT: Yeah, we did a good job.   
  
  Q. Talk about Amar'e (Indiscernible)?  
 KOBE BRYANT: Got to guard him. Got to do a better job standing in front of him.  
  
  Q. How about Dragic as well? He's become like a secondary threat for him.   
 KOBE BRYANT: Yeah, he's playing fantastic. We have to do a better job staying in front of him as well.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 KOBE BRYANT: Just focus.   
  
  Q. Is it because they're being more aggressive going to the basket, the zone, is that the reason?   
 KOBE BRYANT: Yeah.   
  
  Q. Another reason?   
 KOBE BRYANT: No.   
  
  Q. Are you having fun, Kobe?   
 KOBE BRYANT: Sure.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT