NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v LAKERS
May 24, 2010
Kobe Bryant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Now that you've had a night to sleep on it, why more than anything else did you guys lose last night?
 KOBE BRYANT: Free throws. Didn't use opportunities. Can't afford to do that.

 Q. When you look at the way Amar'e went off, as a team, what have you got to do better to keep him under control?
 KOBE BRYANT: Not give him as many free throws. Went to the free throw line way too much. (Indiscernible).

 Q. Does the zone seem to cause the Lakers problems at times? Is it something that you need to work on in practice today, something that concerns you going into Game 4?
 KOBE BRYANT: We'll talk about it, I'm sure. Going into games, getting more consistent.

 Q. Have you thought about 30% of your zone last night, man-to-man, one day of practice, how you're going to attack that zone?
 KOBE BRYANT: No. We're doomed. 

 Q. More of a scorer the second game. More of a distributor. Last night 12-36. Talk about how tough it is to be both like that and what calls for the game to do that?
 KOBE BRYANT: In our system, we received one night we're doing this, not doing that. It all depends on the defense and the position on the floor. Last night we started man-to-man and not really helping much by scoring a lot. 
 As the game went on, you saw them double teaming, zoning a lot more. So the reason we didn't shoot a combination yesterday, mixed the coverages up. 

 Q. (Off microphone)?
 KOBE BRYANT: Yeah. We're not a great defense shooting team consistently anyway. We have good looks and sometimes you get big and you take those. Same thing with the shot clock being low, granted, but you can do a much better job (indiscernible).

 Q. What did you take away from yesterday's game?
 KOBE BRYANT: That Amar'e can play a little bit. (Laughter)

 Q. Were you surprised having performance a little bit (indiscernible)?
 KOBE BRYANT: He's a twin, isn't he? His brother can play. (Laughter). Gotta do something. Offense. I mean, he can shoot the ball. He's not a guy that can go out there and you can ignore. 

 Q. Attacking that zone, is it better ball movement-wise or penetration?
 KOBE BRYANT: More aggressive. Staying in the perimeter way too much.

 Q. A couple of weeks ago people were saying Kobe is hurting what's wrong with him, what have you. Are you just healthier since then, or were people just overreacting back then, Oklahoma series?
 KOBE BRYANT: Had that stuff sucked out of my knee, since then fine.

 Q. How pivotal was that for you?
 KOBE BRYANT: You watched me play the first few games in that series, end of the regular season. And then now. 

 Q. When did they do that exactly?
 KOBE BRYANT: After Game 3. No, Game 4.

 Q. Kobe, when the series gets to a critical point, 2-1, swing game, do you find that you and Fisher spend more time talking as leaders of this team to try to get down to things that you guys need to do?
 KOBE BRYANT: Yeah, execution-wise, yeah. We'll talk the guys through some of the things that, some of the adjustments we want to make, some of the things that Phil wants done. Make sure the message is consistent. Go from there.

 Q. How much at this point in your career does it pay off (indiscernible), you're a guy that can sit down in a crucial moment?
 KOBE BRYANT: It's critical. It's critical. Somebody that has respect of the teammates. It's critical.

 Q. Do you think Bynum, do you have a feeling one way or another. Phil said he's thinking about sitting him. Andrew said he'd like to play. What would you like to see happen?
 KOBE BRYANT: I don't care.

 Q. You just ride with whoever shoots up?
 KOBE BRYANT: Gotta do what you gotta do. If Andrew wants to play, I'm sure Phil will let him play. Phil's not the type that's going to sit somebody down that wants to be out here. I'm sure Andrew will report to the next game (inaudible). 

 Q. (Off microphone)?
 KOBE BRYANT: We don't panic. The team's here for a reason. I don't expect them to roll over, let us have the series. They're going to play, play well, make shots. We understand that. And something we look forward to. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT