NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v LAKERS
May 21, 2010
Kobe Bryant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. When the team is playing well like you are, up two games to none, do you kind of think that in a sense you want to keep on playing instead of having time off right now?  
 KOBE BRYANT: Not at all. Not at all. It's great to have time off.  
  
  Q. And what are your biggest concerns in having the lead that you do going into Game 3?  
 KOBE BRYANT: We're focused. We know what we need to do. We're going to play well. We're ready.  
  
  Q. There's Ron, I know you're pleased with the way he has continued to improve as you get deeper into the playoffs.   
 KOBE BRYANT: He continues to play with more and more confidence. I think he's settling in. It's playoff season, he's comfortable, doing what we need him to do.  
  
  Q. Was it only a matter of time before this happened?  
 KOBE BRYANT: He just needed to be confident. That's all.  
  
  Q. You mentioned after Game 1 you felt the team was playing at its best but there's still more work to be done in terms of improving; what areas stick out the most to you?  
 KOBE BRYANT: Offensive execution. We want to make sure we continue to get high percentage opportunities every time down the floor.   
 Try to minimize the amount of wasted possessions that we have. Defense, obviously with rotations and second chance opportunities and things like that, is something that we need to concentrate on.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 KOBE BRYANT: Nothing. Just play. I've seen him do it before. That's why I'm not impressed. He's one of the best players in the league. Still underrated. Works around the pain. Turn-arounds, passing ability, defensive ability. Those are things that we're all fully aware he's capable of doing.  
  
  Q. So he hasn't stepped up his game?  
 KOBE BRYANT: No, I didn't say that. I said I wasn't surprised by it.  
  
  Q. Has he stepped up his game?  
 KOBE BRYANT: Absolutely. When playoffs come around, big guns have to step up. That's the only way your team is going to advance, because your players that apply the most pressure on the defense have to be able to do that. If they're struggling, then defenses don't have to adjust.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 KOBE BRYANT: The triangle works from the inside out. So you have to have big guys that can make plays. That's the key, is to have bigs that are passers and willing passers.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT