NBA FINALS: MAGIC v LAKERS
June 6, 2009
Kobe Bryant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Because you and your teammates played so well in Game 1, is there a certain amount of anxiousness to get back on the floor to continue that dominance in Game 2? 
 KOBE BRYANT: You know, we just can't wait. We've been waiting for this moment for a while. Everybody is just anxious, and away we go for Game 2.

 Q. Sometimes a team and an individual can be in that proverbial zone, where they can do almost no wrong. Are you and your teammates in that zone right now?
 KOBE BRYANT: I don't know. I don't know, I hope so. We've been playing pretty well. We've just got to stay focused, try to keep it going. 

 Q. Orlando's three-point shooters were off in Game 1. You expect them to bounce back pretty strongly tomorrow? 
 KOBE BRYANT: Absolutely. We'll have to face many games in this series where they shoot lights out. This is a team that made I think they were 23 for 34 from the three-point line in Sacramento one game. This is a team that can get blistering hot, and we know that. We've just got to be ready for that. 

 Q. Phil Jackson was in here 20 minutes ago and he was asked what's the biggest misconception about Kobe Bryant, and he said, that he's a nice guy, because he's not. 
 KOBE BRYANT: He lied (smiling).

 Q. In your mind what is the biggest misconception about yourself? 
 KOBE BRYANT: The way I am on the court is the way I am off the court. I'm completely different at home and outside of the Staples Center and here. I think my USA Olympic teammates were up for a pretty big shock, too, this summer. I'd probably say that. 

 Q. Not to imply that you're anywhere near done, but how much longer do you want to play? 
 KOBE BRYANT: I don't know. I mean, I just love the game so much still. I just feel like there's still so much out there for me to improve on and work on. My body feels great. 
 God willing, I stay healthy, I'll just keep going.

 Q. Has your game gotten better or started to deteriorate at all?
 KOBE BRYANT: No, I feel like I'm a much better player right now than I was last year. I just feel like I've improved a lot. I think there was areas of my game that I needed to work on, and I worked on those, and I think I'm better because of it. 

 Q. I want to know what you thought about the MVP award for The Finals being named after Bill Russell? And also, have you had much of a relationship with him?
 KOBE BRYANT: Well, I think the world of him. Obviously I've had plenty of opportunities to talk to him. He's given me a lot of great advice. I think it's well deserved. He has 11 championships, eight in a row. You know, he's just great, the ultimate winner. 

 Q. Five years ago you at least considered leaving here. In your mind do you ever think what could have happened to the Lakers, what could have happened to your career if you had? 
 KOBE BRYANT: No, I haven't thought about it. I haven't thought about it. No, I can't say that I have. 

 Q. Some of the players were saying the Lakers have always been the Lakers and they would have gone out and found someone else or found some kind of way. Could they have replaced you, or is what you bring to this team now, they would have taken three, four, five guys maybe to fill that need?
 KOBE BRYANT: You know, in every sport certain organizations always seem to find a way, and I believe the Lakers are one of them. The Celtics obviously had a drought, but they put themselves back in the hunt. You look at baseball, the Yankees will always be around, the Red Sox will always be around. There's certain organizations that seem to find a way, and I believe the Lakers are one of them. 

 Q. Are you enjoying this, just the experience of the Finals, or have you been here enough that let someone else enjoy it, let's just win this thing?
 KOBE BRYANT: No, it's always fun. It's always fun. As a kid you grow up wanting to play in The Finals, and to be in six Finals, I'm extremely fortunate. Even though we lost the last two, I've still been very lucky. It's fun. I still enjoy it. 

 Q. The reason I ask that is you don't appear to be enjoying it very much. You appear to be so focused on just one thing. But that's not accurate? 
 KOBE BRYANT: No, I mean, that's part of the fun. Just because you're focused on something doesn't mean you don't enjoy something. That's part of the fun is just figuring out how to focus and how to get ready to play game after game. You can still do your job and still have a good time. 

 Q. Does that mean you're happy instead of grumpy today?
 KOBE BRYANT: No, I'm always happy. I'm always happy. I was just happy my kid didn't call me dopey.

 Q. What do you make of Shaquille O'Neal openly rooting for the Lakers in this series? 
 KOBE BRYANT: I don't make much of it (smiling). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT