NBA FINALS: MAGIC v LAKERS
June 5, 2009
Kobe Bryant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Why are you playing with such a defiance right now? And how do you think that impacts your teammates?   
 KOBE BRYANT: I'm just focused and just ready to go.   
 In terms of how it impacts my teammates, they probably look at me and how I'm responding to the situation, how I'm preparing, and they follow suit.   
  
  Q. Of all The Finals that you have participated in, is this the one that you are more focused in? And if it is, why?   
 KOBE BRYANT: You know, I just want it so bad. The last two times we've been to The Finals we came up short. This time around we're just really locked in.   
  
  Q. On a side note, how did it come together and how did you think you looked in the Knicks' jersey in that video game?  
 KOBE BRYANT: You know, I haven't seen it. I heard about it, though, but I haven't seen it.  
  
  Q. How did that all come together?  
 KOBE BRYANT: Just Spike being Spike.   
  
  Q. They're going superstar hunting next year, and you're probably not leaving LA, but if you were 25, like some of your Olympic teammates, and you had a max deal to come play for D'Antoni at the Garden, would it be a tough decision, something to really look at?  
 KOBE BRYANT: Don't get me caught up in the LeBron sweepstakes, okay? That's a really nice way of asking (smiling). But I won't go there.   
  
  Q. Do you remember the first time you faced Dwight when he was a rookie? You said you baptized him with that dunk. Do you remember that first encounter? And would you take us back to that moment in the lane and when you were thinking that first time you faced him.   
 KOBE BRYANT: I just knew he had a lot of talent, a lot of potential.   
 In terms of me coming down the lane, he just got there a second too late.   
  
  Q. Did you feel like you baptized him into The Finals yesterday and let him know what it was about?  
 KOBE BRYANT: No, I just think they had an off-game. I think defensively they did some things, but they didn't shoot the ball particularly well. They'll shoot the better in Game 2. We'll face a different Magic team on Sunday.   
  
  Q. You've spoken a lot about how you're locked in, locked in and focused. I wonder if you can trace that back to a specific point during the playoffs where you made up your mind, that's it, I'm locking in, shutting down, I'm going to become grumpy until this job gets done.   
 KOBE BRYANT: I don't think there's one particular moment, I just think it's been building. I've been pacing myself all year waiting for these playoffs to come around. The table is set.   
  
  Q. Kind of along those lines, you've talked about that you feel better now than you ever have at this point of the year. What have you learned that allows you to be in that place? And is there something that maybe you can carry on, a career-prolonging kind of thing?  
 KOBE BRYANT: We just have great people that do what they do, and you listen to them. It's as simple as that. I have a great trainer. I listen to what he tells me to do, and I feel great because of that.  
  
  Q. I'm curious about your foot work and the level it is now. When did it get to that level? Was there a certain point in your career when you got to this stage where it all became kind of instinctive, almost easy out there? Tell me about the development of it.   
 KOBE BRYANT: I've always worked on it, always worked on it, ever since I was a kid. I just watched different players, Olajuwon, Michael, Charles, and just all kinds of foot works and just tried to emulate them. Playing soccer I think had a lot to do with it, as well.   
 I mean, it's just growing up overseas.  
  
  Q. Watching you last night with Pietrus guarding you, are you thinking through it or is it automatic in the moment and do you know where you're going with it?  
 KOBE BRYANT: No, just depends on what he's doing and what I feel. I just react instinctively.   
  
  Q. Last year some of your teammates said last year you guys were just happy to get to The Finals, and I thought you guys were really trying to win The Finals as opposed to just being there. Is there really a difference? Can you tell a tangible difference in your teammates in terms of their approach, their attitude, all of that between last year and this year?   
 KOBE BRYANT: It's tough for me to remember exactly what pocket the guys were in last year. They seemed pretty focused to me, we just got our ass kicked, simple as that.   
  
  Q. There's been a lot of speculation about why you're so intense this year. A lot of people say you want to prove to LeBron you're still the tops in the league. Other people say you want to win one without Shaq. Is there any merit to that at all, or do you think about those things?   
 KOBE BRYANT: Not at all.   
  
  Q. Two things: The lack of three-point shot attempts from you last night, was that your strategy, or how did that evolve? It was all mid-range and drives and stuff.   
 KOBE BRYANT: I was just taking what they gave me. Just taking what they gave me. If there's lanes, I'm going to take them. If I've got a three-point shot I'm going to take it.   
  
  Q. Back to that video game thing, did you have to approve that commercial, because you're shown in a Knick jersey and such.   
 KOBE BRYANT: No, I have people that have people that have people that approve commercials.   
  
  Q. Like a year ago the situation was you guys lost Game 1 and that was the game in which Paul Pierce went off in the wheelchair. The next day Phil was kind of like talking about it, and as a matter of fact so were you. Do you remember that?  
 KOBE BRYANT: Do I remember what?   
  
  Q. There was kind of a lighthearted spirit, like you guys were so confident, you were so sure that you were going to get one back there, but it wasn't the same kind of thing at all. Do you remember any part of it that way?   
 KOBE BRYANT: No.   
  
  Q. How do you remember it?  
 KOBE BRYANT: I don't.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT