NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: NUGGETS v LAKERS
May 28, 2009
Kobe Bryant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Can you talk about Lamar's performance last night? Because not only was it a gritty win, it was a gutsy win. 
 KOBE BRYANT: He's been playing through a lot, though. Ever since the injury in Houston, he's been battling. His back's messed up. And he played extremely well yesterday and hopefully he'll get in a rhythm and keep going.

 Q. Were you surprised at how efficient he was?
 KOBE BRYANT: No, not really. I mean, he has the potential to do that. It's just a matter of him getting used to what he's playing with and playing through it.

 Q. Now you have a chance to move on to the next round and knock this one out tomorrow?
 KOBE BRYANT: It's going to be a tough one. Elimination games are always the hardest ones, but we'll be ready to go.

 Q. What does it say to you about the team if you guys are able to go and get a win in Game 6; I don't think people are really expecting it at this point?
 KOBE BRYANT: That we're a road team, we're a great road team. The best in the league.

 Q. What was different about that fourth quarter last night? They pulled up and then you pulled away. Was there something that happened to you guys?
 KOBE BRYANT: I think we executed defensively. We did a much better job not allowing them to get the space, get penetration, and it's going to be doing that.

 Q. (Indiscernible)?
 KOBE BRYANT: What do you think? What do you think? We've just got to execute, something we talk about. You can't get too high, too low. Just gotta go out there and execute and try to cut them up.

 Q. (Indiscernible)?
 KOBE BRYANT: I'll just read the defense. I didn't get as many shots. But when I'm doing that, a lot of time the shots I get are shots coming off the boards and things like that. Denver, they're not going to let me isolate somebody and go by them. They're not going to let me play one-on-one. 
 So I have to trust my teammates to make plays. When those lanes open up, I take advantage of it.

 Q. How far do you define it? Passing more?
 KOBE BRYANT: It's not hard. It's not hard. Especially in this system. It's just a matter of are we going to be able to recognize it, because this system you have limitless opportunities. So it's a matter of reading the defense and picking and choosing how you go about executing it; then it's on us to execute.

 Q. (Indiscernible)
 KOBE BRYANT: Been doing a great job, very well. Like I said, the Western Conference Finals, you've got teams that study you and know what you do and they kind of attack what you're doing and it's on us to make adjustments. It's just playoff basketball.

 Q. You talk about being successful on the road. What is the secret to being successful on the road like you guys have been? 
 KOBE BRYANT: I think execution. That's always a key, and coming up with big plays down the stretch. We've got a lot of guys on the team that are able and willing to step up and make big shots. 

 Q. And you have done that before?
 KOBE BRYANT: Oh, yeah. We've got guys that have been in these wars before, been in these close games before. Nothing really new to us. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT