NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: NUGGETS v LAKERS
May 26, 2009
Kobe Bryant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Last night, you said it pretty simple, you said they just kicked our butts, as simple as that. After looking at the film today, do you still feel the same way?
 KOBE BRYANT: Yep. Yep.

 Q. In every aspect of the game?
 KOBE BRYANT: Absolutely.

 Q. So what is your level of frustration, anger, concern right now?
 KOBE BRYANT: It's the series. It's a series. You have games like that in the series. You're not just going to roll over a team every game. They're going to come out with more energy. We're going to come out with more energy. We're going to play better. They're going to play better. So the best team's going to win the series.

 Q. Did they move from physical to dirty last night?
 KOBE BRYANT: No, it was good play.

 Q. Not just play, picked up a few technicals and that sort of thing?
 KOBE BRYANT: No, it's just good playoff basketball.

 Q. You talked in the past about the 1980s basketball. Is the way they're playing, does it resemble any of that?
 KOBE BRYANT: It's cool with me.

 Q. How do you account for that? Do you have to have a cool head, do what you're doing?
 KOBE BRYANT: Just play. You just play. That's what I do, play the game.

 Q. Not get frustrated or anything like that?
 KOBE BRYANT: No, just play.

 Q. Have you guys grown in these playoffs? 
 KOBE BRYANT: We're still evolving.

 Q. Are you a better team than you were at the end of the regular season?
 KOBE BRYANT: We definitely are. But it's always, it's a battle. The playoff series is a battle. And it's some games you're going to play well. Some games you're going to play better. But we're definitely a better team now than we were. Although in the playoffs you win one, you're great. You lose one, you're horrible.
 It's always that kind of seesaw thing back and forth, so you have to stay even keeled.

 Q. Dahntay Jones' trip was upgraded to a 1. Does that sound about right?
 KOBE BRYANT: Doesn't matter to me.

 Q. What do you think about the rule on flagrant?
 KOBE BRYANT: The rule itself is kind of all over the place. You know what I mean? So I'm sure it's something they'll address over the summer in terms of trying to find some consistency to it.

 Q. As far as being relaxed, will you be watching [Inaudible]?
 KOBE BRYANT: Probably will. I don't sleep much. If I'm tired I'll go to sleep. I feel pretty good right now. I feel pretty well rested. If I don't have feel like sleeping I'll watch it.

 Q. Do you talk about it?
 KOBE BRYANT: We've got some fans on the team. We're all excited about it.

 Q. You talked about fatigue or getting sleep. How much is fatigue a factor, or are people making a bigger deal of it?
 KOBE BRYANT: I think at this point everybody's a little fatigued. Doesn't have anything to do with how we played yesterday. They just played better. Again, it's the playoffs. What do you expect? 

 Q. Is there a danger in letting the other team know you're fatigued. Obviously you could deny it. You're holding yourself up after that game. But is there a danger in letting them know?
 KOBE BRYANT: What's the danger? 

 Q. Okay, maybe we've got a shot at them now?
 KOBE BRYANT: The challenge of the situation reenergizes you. 

 Q. What's keeping you guys from getting the ball inside to Pau as many times as you'd like?
 KOBE BRYANT: They're double teaming him. He's got to go a little quicker when he catches it. Something I've told him: When you've got shots, you've got to take him. 
 This late in the post-season, guys aren't going to let you back down and stand and do some of the things he likes to do in the post. He's gotta go and go quickly. 
 So part of that is just him making a mental adjustment, if you've got a shot, take it.

 Q. Shots are starting to drop to Sasha now too?
 KOBE BRYANT: Always do.

 Q. What do you do throughout this playoff, what have you learned about this team or about your team?
 KOBE BRYANT: Well, we're a resilient group. They do a pretty good job of responding to challenges. And we certainly have had one here tomorrow night. So that's one thing I learned that we really didn't get a chance to learn last year. 

 Q. How is your opinion of Dahntay Jones changed through the series?
 KOBE BRYANT: Hasn't at all.

 Q. What is it?
 KOBE BRYANT: He's a good player.

 Q. Can you talk a little bit about the struggles from the bench? The bench outscored you yesterday. Is that something that you guys try to emphasize?
 KOBE BRYANT: Yesterday is a little misleading. J.R. outscored the bench by himself. You know what I'm saying? He had the talent to do that. We knew that coming into the series. 
 We did okay. I don't know if it was us, our defense, whether it was our defense or him missing shots that he normally makes. But yesterday he busted us pretty good. He has the potential to do that on a consistent basis. So that's something we've got to watch out for. Actually, we don't have a player coming off the bench with that kind of explosiveness. Our bench is more of a collective effort. But he has the potential to do that.

 Q. What did you think about his showboating and celebrating after plays? He even said if he was on the other team, he would probably be upset. 
 KOBE BRYANT: He has a right to do that. Knocks a shot down, has the right to do that. We have enough motivation. If we need that kind of motivation to get us going then we've got issues. That's what you're supposed to do, knock down a shot, celebrate, you're at home. It's the playoffs. Kudos to him.

 Q. You mentioned resiliency in spite of the challenge. Do you have any doubt how this team is going to respond tomorrow night?
 KOBE BRYANT: No, we'll be ready to go.

 Q. Dribble penetration was obviously an issue for you guys yesterday. Is there anything you can do differently?
 KOBE BRYANT: Well, we can't pick up fouls, fouls at the start of the game. We've got to -- last game whistles were getting blown pretty quickly and drew penetration. We have to be careful a little bit. So we just have to stay out of fouls early, be able to guard the penetration. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT