NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: NUGGETS v LAKERS
May 24, 2009
Kobe Bryant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Last night, when you walked off the floor, you were pretty well --  
 KOBE BRYANT: I was tired. I was tired. Physically tired. It was a tough one.  
  
  Q. How do you feel today?  
 KOBE BRYANT: Feel pretty good. I feel pretty good. Recharged the batteries a little bit and still ready to go tomorrow night.  
  
  Q. On a day like today, what's the most important thing for you and your teammates besides getting rest?  
 KOBE BRYANT: Make some adjustments, go get some things what we want to do, what we want to change. And just get your rest, get your fluids and get ready.  
  
  Q. Now you have a chance to really put a stranglehold on this series with a victory tomorrow?  
 KOBE BRYANT: We've been in this position last series. So we gotta come out with more focus, more energy. And really just execute a lot better on the defensive end of the floor.  
  
  Q. You've had some great performances, individual performances, where would you rank last night's?  
 KOBE BRYANT: Last night was a big one for me. It was a big force. It's tough to -- you go down 2-1, lose so much confidence. Their forwards are really, really tough. So, yeah, just big.  
  
  Q. Your guys, did they help?  
 KOBE BRYANT: Yeah, yeah, definitely. Helped for a little bit, put more fuel in the tank.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about your team's mindset compared to what it was 24 hours ago?  
 KOBE BRYANT: Everybody's still on the edge. Everybody's still upset, haven't done anything and ready to get after the ball.  
  
  Q. You talked yesterday about making sure Melo didn't get the sort of points he got. What did you guys do differently than you have done in the first two games to win it?  
 KOBE BRYANT: You know, we really didn't do much. I think we did a better job in terms of being on the shooting arm. But, honestly, he missed shots that he was making. Just gotta take advantage of things like that.  
  
  Q. You said guys that aren't as set, don't play as well. Do you play as well as you can play --  
 KOBE BRYANT: Just want to win. Just want to win. Want to come in, take care of business.  
  
  Q. You talked before about how winning on the road, it takes things out of you. And it's more satisfying when you win. What's the thing about the road when you put on the jersey?  
 KOBE BRYANT: It's everybody wanting you to lose, that's the thing. The challenge of the moment. Come into the hostile environment. This stage of the playoffs, you play all great home teams. It's that challenge of coming in here and doing something that few teams have done. And it excites me.  
  
  Q. Looking back on your biggest game, would you say the road ones are your favorites?  
 KOBE BRYANT: Oh, no question. No question.  
  
  Q. When Derek Fisher talked to you late in the fourth quarter, did you feel the energy change? What did you feel?  
 KOBE BRYANT: It was more of a sense of the moment. The guys understanding that this is something that teams have to go through. We're not the first team to go through this. Or to be struggling in Game 2 on the road.   
 This is part of the process. So either we start to the challenge and this helps us grow and hopefully being a champion; we all responded to it. It's our choice to make that decision.  
  
  Q. And do you think Game 4 there will be more difficulty than Game 2?  
 KOBE BRYANT: No, question. They're going to be ready to go. But we will, too.  
  
  Q. Fisher told us your ability to focus, there are times when it's almost like he feels like you're the only guy on the court. Where does that focus come from?   
 KOBE BRYANT: I don't know. I don't know.   
  
  Q. Do you feel that focus, though, in a game like last night; there's a shot of a look on your face, you looked crazed after you hit that 3. What's going through your mind at that moment?  
 KOBE BRYANT: Just determination, just win. Just win by any means necessary, just get it done. No matter what it takes. And you just gotta have that mindset.  
  
  Q. Sometimes when you talk to people after fabulous performances, they talk about everything is in slow motion. Is it that way with you?  
 KOBE BRYANT: Everything is slow motion, definitely. Because it wasn't by choice. But you just stay focused and you don't see anything; you don't hear anything. You just focus on what you have to do.  
  
  Q. How much confidence do you have in Bynum's offensive game compared to January before he got hurt?  
 KOBE BRYANT: It's the same. It's the same. He's going up against some really good defensive players. Nene is very good and Kenyon is very good.   
 It's not like you throw the ball, catch it on the block and make him work. They're going to make him work for it. He's got to fight. I felt particularly the way he started the second half I thought he did some very good things for us on the post.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT