NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 18, 2011
Kobe Bryant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. This is your second time playing in an All-Star in your home stadium, can you talk about how much more amped up you get playing at home and how different it is this year?   
 KOBE BRYANT: It's always fun. It's always fun playing at home. It's always fun playing an All-Star Game. If you host it, it makes you a little bit more excited.  
  
  Q. One fan question, how do you feel about going against the Big Three from the Heat and the Big Four from the Celtics?   
 KOBE BRYANT: It's just fun to challenge. Obviously, you know, they are well-represented in this All-Star Game, so it should be fun to compete.  
  
  Q. You're a global icon. I was hiking in China off a beaten track in a village and saw your face on a t-shirt. How do you feel about that?  
 KOBE BRYANT: It shows how global the game has become. It's the All-Star Game and so much media here and how much hype around it; it shows how far the NBA has come.   
  
  Q. Any message you would like to give to fans in Madagascar?  
 KOBE BRYANT: No, just continue to support the NBA and basketball.   
  
  Q. How do you feel that Steve Nash did not make the team this year?   
 KOBE BRYANT: I don't know if I feel one way or the other. A lot of great point guards.   
  
  Q. Talk about bouncing back after a couple of losses on the road.   
 KOBE BRYANT: Got to.   
  
  Q. What was going through your mind after that --  
 KOBE BRYANT: I don't know. I would rather not think about it.   
  
  Q. Do you think your next opportunity to play in the Olympics again will be in London?  
 KOBE BRYANT: Yes, absolutely.  
  
  Q. What's going on with your --  
 KOBE BRYANT: I don't think I'm going to be nominated for any Oscars or anything like that, but it was fun.   
  
  Q. What was it like working with Rob Rodríguez?   
 KOBE BRYANT: Insanely creative, meticulous and quick. He came every day prepared and knowing exactly what he was looking for. He can shoot a man sitting in a chair and it will be completely different from what anybody else will shoot.   
 I've been a big fan of his -- I'm the one that picked him. That was my choice. I actually reached out to him and called him up and see if he would be willing to do it and explain to him what I was looking for. He was on board.   
  
  Q. What's your favorite film of his?  
 KOBE BRYANT: I've got to go with Desperado. I've got to. I've got to.   
  
  Q. Coach said last night that losing to Cleveland might have been rock bottom. Do you feel that that's rock bottom?  
 KOBE BRYANT: Yeah, if it's rock bottom, there's only one place to go, and that's up.   
  
  Q. Jerry West said that rock bottom is losing eight or nine games in a row.   
 KOBE BRYANT: Well, for us, three games is the equivalent of eight or nine in a row. So, too much.   
  
  Q. What do you think about Blake making the All-Star team as a rookie?  
 KOBE BRYANT: Well deserved. Well deserved period. He deserves to be here and I'm happy he made it.  
  
  Q. What kind of rookie hazing can he expect from you guys?   
 KOBE BRYANT: Rookie hazing, I don't know, I'm not a big practical joker. So I don't know.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT