NBA FINALS: LAKERS v CELTICS
June 5, 2008
Kobe Bryant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. All the intangibles and hoopla aside, how do you in the team dynamic get the team ready for Game 2?  
 KOBE BRYANT: Just do what we normally do, come back and practice the next couple days, tweak some things, get ready for Game 2.   
  
  Q. I spoke to Luke Walton and Lamar Odom in the locker room. Both of them cited ball movement as a key, and execution on your guys' part on offense. Can you talk about your guys' offense tonight and what happened out there.   
 KOBE BRYANT: We got a little stagnant. I think our rhythm wasn't there, wasn't what we like it to be. Still we played well enough to almost steal the game. Some balls bounced their way tonight. They scrapped and they clawed their way to this victory. They played a lot more physical than we did, and I think that's something we have to adjust to and get ready for Game 2.   
  
  Q. Phil said you were comfortable with the looks you got tonight. Can you describe what you had out there, and did you even discuss it with Phil during the course of the game?  
 KOBE BRYANT: I had some great looks, they just didn't stay down. It was just pile it in with the other bad shooting games I've had and flush it and come back Game 2 and hopefully I get the same looks.   
  
  Q. You just mentioned the physicality. Is that something that can be changed in a couple days, in time for Sunday's game?  
 KOBE BRYANT: You just get used to it. I think playing Utah is -- it took some getting used to after we played them two games in Utah and San Antonio is a different kind of physicality. Each team kind of has their personality that you have to adjust to as the series goes on. It's a good experience for us. Nice little kick in the ass (laughter).   
  
  Q. You took mostly jump shots today and I think four free throws. Is that just the way it's going to be against this team with them packing it back, or do you guys think you can get inside?  
 KOBE BRYANT: We'll spread them out by getting in transition and moving the ball and see if we can get some cuts going to the hoop. They're going to be determined and not let me get to the paint, particularly in the half court. Those little mid-range jumpers that I get, I've got to knock those in.  
  
  Q. Kobe, did you notice when Paul went down? Seemed as if he came over to help on defense. Did you notice when he went down?  
 KOBE BRYANT: After I was running back down the court I saw he was still on the floor, yeah.  
  
  Q. So there was no contact as he was shooting that you noticed?  
 KOBE BRYANT: I don't think so.   
  
  Q. Did they do anything to you defensively? Or just talk about some of the different looks they threw at you with different guys and different styles.   
 KOBE BRYANT: No, I just missed some bunnies. I just missed some really, really good looks. I'll be thinking about those a little bit tonight.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT