NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 20, 2005
Kobe Bryant
Tim Duncan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tim, can you just talk about the difference of playing with Shaq as an All-Star and then playing against him? 

TIM DUNCAN:  There's definitely a difference there.  You'd love to have him on your team, but I thought all in all, we did a pretty decent job without him.  Unfortunately we lost the game, but all in all, he didn't -- I don't think he killed us, but it's fun having him on this side.  It's fun playing with him once a year and having him around in the locker room.  So that part of it I missed, that's the part I missed the most. 

Q.  Talk about Denver as a host city and how you enjoyed your weekend. 

TIM DUNCAN:  Actually, I really enjoyed it.  It was nice.  It's nice getting around and seeing some different places.  My family got around a bunch, walked up and down and so it was a very nice city.  I really enjoyed myself this weekend. 

Q.  You didn't play as much in the second half.  I was curious as to your comments on that and was there something wrong or just not the situation for you to play? 

TIM DUNCAN:  No, it just was kind of understood before that that I would not play a whole lot of minutes.  That's kind of a sacrifice I was willing to make.  It's always a tough thing balancing the minutes with everybody and trying to keep everybody happy and everything.  I took a hit on that part and partially because of that, partially because I'm still a little bit hurt, so just wanted to kind of, as much as possible, stay off my feet.  So it worked out very well.  Again, unfortunately we didn't win the game, but all in all, I thought everything worked out well.

Q.  Kobe, you're very familiar with Allen.  Could you give your perspective on his performance tonight and what was special about it? 

KOBE BRYANT:  Oh, it was an incredible performance.  I mean, everybody knows about his mental toughness and tenacity and you know he's a heck of a player and he had a great game tonight.  He's having a big year down in Philadelphia and hopefully he can stay healthy and continue to have a big year. 

Q.  Can you share with us what kind of conversations you and Shaquille had this weekend, if any? 

KOBE BRYANT:  None.  Simple answer. 

Q.  Didn't talk at all. 

KOBE BRYANT:  No. 

Q.  Seemed like just before the tip I think all ten starters shook hands or patted each other except you and Shaq.  Is there a reason why? 

KOBE BRYANT:  You know, I'm really not going to make this weekend about myself and Shaquille.  That's just not fair.  That's not basketball.  You know, it's a great weekend with a lot of great basketball being played.  I obviously respect Shaquille tremendously for what he can do on the basketball floor and vice versa. 

So, I mean, even when we played together, we weren't the best of buddies, but we won three titles, so I think everybody has to just kind of leave that in the past and move on from it. 

Q.  Just talk about the fourth quarter and you guys got kind of within reach but it kind of just, latter half, you couldn't get anything to fall. 

KOBE BRYANT:  Yeah, a couple turnovers, key turnovers down the stretch and they were able to get a lot of easy run-outs, get in transition and get easy buckets.  We got some pretty good lucks down the stretch; they didn't go for us.  They came away with the win. 

Q.  How was this weekend for you personally, not being the focus with everybody talking about the younger generation? 

KOBE BRYANT:  You know, it feels great, being I'm one of the older guys now and to be able to come here to All-Star Weekend and just blend in and just have a good time and just play basketball.  That's what we all enjoy doing the most and, you know, the best time of the weekend is going out and competing against so many great players. 

Q.  Any reason why this game tonight seemed so ragged and both teams -- neither team shot 50 percent and it seemed about 30 percent on jumpers? 

KOBE BRYANT:  Blame it on the altitude.  I know my chest was burning. 

Q.  Talk about the difference of having Shaq on your All-Star Team for every year and now he's out East, and seemed like they took advantage of having him?

KOBE BRYANT:  I don't really know.  I mean in the past when we've played, we've gone into him several times but most of the time it's in transition, being the point guard, we had so many straight shooters, we were just clicking from Dirk to Peja to Ray, to all of these other guys, Tim in the post.  When you have Tim and Shaq in the post, Tim on one block and Shaq on the other block, it's a wrap. 

Q.  What happened to the goal of ten minutes and sitting down?  You played more minutes than anybody?

KOBE BRYANT:  You know what, Popovich just reeled me in.  It was such a tremendous honor for me to play for Popovich and he's such a great coach.  I always, you know, view Popovich as being one of the best coaches ever, and to play for him, I realize how great he is.  I just enjoyed playing for the man. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT