NBA FINALS: PISTONS v LAKERS
June 10, 2004
Kobe Bryant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  With all that's at stake here, how do you explain what appeared to be a pretty flat effort overall? 

KOBE BRYANT:   What it boiled down to is we didn't execute and we let them rush us into decisions.  Offensively, they didn't shoot the ball particularly well, but we gave them a lot of second chance opportunities and we put them to the line a lot. 

Q.  How similar is this situation to when you guys were down 2-0 to San Antonio, except for maybe the difference that Malone is injured now? 

KOBE BRYANT:   No, I think we can use the San Antonio series as  -- for experience in this type of situation.  You know, we're faced with a heck of a challenge right now, being down 2-1 and to have two games coming up on their home floor.  This is a good crowd and they feed off of that a lot. Yeah, we can draw off the San Antonio series for experience, absolutely.

Q.  Can you talk about Rip's night offensively, particularly.

KOBE BRYANT:   Yeah, he got into a groove.  Got some break-out opportunities, and he was able to get his jumpshot going and he was in a good flow tonight.

Q.  Why was it so difficult for to you find shot opportunities for yourself tonight?

KOBE BRYANT:   Well, for the most part, tonight I was attacking 30 feet from the basket.  I mean, that's something Phil and I talked about after the game is, me not having to attack 30 feet from the basket, doing some things in our execution to give me sharper opportunities and quicker opportunities.

Q.  Normally whenever the Lakers lose a game they want to get right back out on the floor, but you have two long days before you get back on the floor.  Will this be a time for a lot of soul searching and emotional, this roller coaster will be on a downward spiral right now?

KOBE BRYANT:   I don't know if I would go that deep.  We have some injuries that -- and we want to make sure we get some guys healthy.  Karl gave us a real good effort despite his knees in the first half, we were surprised from that.  Hopefully we'll use the next two days to heal up a little more, work on our execution a little bit and come back with a better effort.

Q.  There was a lot of talk after Game  2 about how the Pistons were able to bounce back.  Did any of that surprise you the way the Pistons came out right from the start?

KOBE BRYANT:   No.  Larry Brown's teams always bounce back.  Every team he coaches, they fight hard and they play hard.  Somehow it didn't surprise me at all. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT