NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 11, 2001
Kobe Bryant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








KOBE BRYANT:  You guys enjoy the game?  Yeah?  Good. 


Q.  Along those lines, there has been a lot of talk this weekend about where the League is going.  That last five, six minutes of basketball, I mean, it doesn't get better than that.  Is that something where it is important for you guys to show that this league is in good lands? 

KOBE BRYANT:   I think it's really not on us to make a conscious effort to show how great this game is.  I think that's something that's just going to happen.  But us naturally going out and playing the game that we love to play, you're going to have things occur, like tonight.  It was a close game all the way down to the end.  So if we go out and just play hard and play the game that we love to play, I think fans are going to start to enjoy it a little bit more.


Q.  On the last play, were you looking for your shot first there and were you also thinking, "If I make this one, MVP"? 

KOBE BRYANT:   No.  I was thinking Tim had a better look.  He was sitting there in the corner and I thought he was going to be able to just catch it and shoot it, so I gave the ball up to him.


Q.  There was talk earlier in the week about, you know, you're not being here and maybe getting a fine and you coming.  Just talk about the experience and the great game and just the experience of being here at the All-Star Game?

KOBE BRYANT:   It's always fun to play in the All-Star Game, because we all as kids grow up watching the All-Star Weekend and we enjoy watching it so much, and to have the opportunity to play in it, it's a dream come true for all of us, even though some of us are banged up, the game is still fun. 


Q.  Talking about dreams, I would assume that with ten seconds left in the game, it's anybody's dream to get their hand on the ball and put it up and get that winning shot.  What was going through your mind during that period of time? 

KOBE BRYANT:   I was just reading the defense.  I was not thinking about anything else.  I was not thinking about the fans.  I wasn't thinking about the end of the game.  I was just thinking about reading the defense at that particular point in time, and Mutombo showed up, Stephon jumped up high on me.  I had an opportunity at a shot but I felt Tim had a better look.


Q.  All-Star Games have been characterized as a lot of dunks, not a lot of defense.  How would you characterize the defense that was played, specifically on you?  It looked like convince got up into you a couple times? 

KOBE BRYANT:   When I caught the ball I told Vince, I said you're going to make me start playing more real.  I called the ball and he was pressuring me.  I was in cruise control a little bit because my shoulder was aching me.  I said, "Damn, you're going to make me start going to the basket, man, cool up.  I'm trying to rest." 


Q.  How was the shoulder and everything else?  It looked like you were working on shoulder a couple of times?

KOBE BRYANT:   It is bothering me a little bit but it is not as bad as it was before I came up here at the start of the week en.  You know, you can blame Dave Robinson for my shoulder aching a little bit.  He's like, "They are doing all the dunks, you've got it do it, Kobe, you've got to do something, come on."  "All right, damn, man.  Okay, one time.  One time." 


Q.  Playing 30 minutes, was that what you wanted? 

KOBE BRYANT:   Not in this type of game.  Wept you'll the way down to the wire.  No Kobe Shaq questions?  That's great. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT