NCAA MEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: DES MOINES
March 16, 2016
Wesley Gordon
Josh Scott
George King
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We have the student-athletes from Colorado.  On the podium we are joined by Wesley Gordon, George King and Josh Scott.  Questions for our student-athletes.   
 Q.  Josh, can you talk about the maturation that you've seen in Dom this year from the time he started as a freshman until now, what growth have you seen in him confidencewise and in his game?  
JOSH SCOTT: Biggest maturation I would say would be confidence.  When you spend the whole summer working on your game and getting your body stronger, quicker, you can't help but feel more confident, and I think the game is moving slower to him now as the year has gone along.  He's understanding what we need from him and really doing a good job.   
 Q.  Josh, you've been here a couple times.  What do you feel like is the biggest key on this day?  What the team has to focus on as far as taking care of this business and getting in the gym and seeing the arena, obviously keeping your focus for tomorrow?  
JOSH SCOTT: I mean, I'm a big proponent of you practice how you play.  So when we shoot it's about taking game shots, and when we practice it's about practicing what you plan on doing in the game.  So really it's important to be locked in and focused the whole entire time.   
 Q.  What are positives you guys can take away from the Arizona game last week, especially the work you did on the glass?  
GEORGE KING: We rebound the ball well against Arizona.  Arizona is no punk on the boards, and we did a great job of -- I think would he outrebounded them by a good enough margin and wasn't able to get the win.  But if we can continue to rebound like how we did that last game we will be fine.   
JOSH SCOTT: Just not digging ourselves in a hole.  I think we played good for 20 minutes.  If we would have played forty minutes we probably would have won the game.  That's just something we can learn from.   
WESLEY GORDON: Pretty much what Josh and George said.  They covered it all.   
 Q.  Wes, what do you feel like is going to be the keys of the interior match-up against UConn?  
WESLEY GORDON: To really just stay aggressive and I imagine that if me or Josh start doing well, they'll start big-bigging.  So being able to recognize and take advantage of the match-ups that we have and that we're going to create.   
 Q.  Josh, does this preparation feel different from the past couple of times when you were in the tournament?  This lead-up at all?  
JOSH SCOTT: I feel like this team has practiced -- I think we have had chippy, crisp practices for the most part, which is a good thing.  I think it just shows that the guys care and they don't want to go out after just making it to the Tournament.  They want to win games.  I think that's important, and I think that would be the biggest difference I would say between the other two times we were here before.   
 Q.  George, as you've looked at UConn a little bit more, what are for you your view of what the biggest keys are to neutralizing Daniel Hamilton and slowing him down?  
GEORGE KING: Well, the biggest thing about UConn is it's not necessarily guarding their plays, it's about guarding their players.  I sound like Coach Boyle right now, but that can't be more true.  They have great individual players who can easily break off the plays and go on and make plays for the other players on the team.  So just gotta dial in defensively and be ready to get stops.   
 Q.  I don't know if you guys have talked about this in the last week a whole bunch, but what's it been like having Coach Billups stick around before he takes the Denver gig and still around for your preparation this week?  
WESLEY GORDON: I think Coach Billups probably gives us the most confidence individualwise especially for me.  He's a guy that can connect to his players because I think he's so young and he understands what we're going through and things like that.  So I think our one-on-one connection with Coach Billups is very great, I guess.   
GEORGE KING: As of now, Coach Billups is still a Buffalo, so he has a job to finish here with the Buffaloes, and he understands that and we understand that.  Until then he will be a Buffalo.  Like Wes said, with him being a younger guy he's just like one of us.  He has the whistle.  He's a coach now, but he's just like one of us.  He will be truly missed, but he's gotta move on.   
JOSH SCOTT: It's just him.  He fights for us.  He stands by his guys, and that's what's going to make him a good coach.   
 Q.  Could you guys talk about the difference in playing on the road on a neutral floor as opposed to playing at home and what you have to do differently this week?  
JOSH SCOTT: Basketball is basketball.  They're trying to win a game.  We're trying to win the game.  Doesn't really matter where we play it.   
GEORGE KING: I mean, we play with a round ball, a round hoop with a net and a wooden court.  I mean, besides the crowd, it's pretty much the same.   
WESLEY GORDON: Yeah, what they said.   
THE MODERATOR: Thanks, gentlemen, wish you best of luck tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT