U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 2002
Ed Dougherty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Pretty good showing?
ED DOUGHERTY:  It's a nice showing.  My sister and me signed my mother up for hospice on Tuesday night, so I had a rough week.  And it would have been nice maybe to try to win it, and I did, but the putts just didn't go in.  Usually, when I get up here I'm sort of jovial, but I didn't have a whole lot to -- I played good, it's a great golf course.  The superintendent should be commended, the USGA had a fine tournament, but I still feel like crap.

Q.  The putting today --?
ED DOUGHERTY:  It was like I told you, I had my birdie putts and I had to be defensive on them.  I thought I hit a great shot on 11, and I looked at this putt and said, "If I hit this thing anymore solid I have a 12-footer coming back."  Luckily, I made the putt on 17, the 2-putt, and I was trying to bounce the ball, I didn't think I could get it there any other way.  Fourth place isn't bad.  
You know, I didn't know what first prize was, I didn't know what 10th prize was.  I never look.  It would have been great.  But fourth is not bad, either.

Q.  Talk about what you were going through, to keep your focus like that?
ED DOUGHERTY:  We just signed my mother up for hospice.

Q.  (Inaudible.)
ED DOUGHERTY:  Yeah, I started -- I hit a shot, I had such a horrible lie, a big clump of grass to the right of the ball and I knew I couldn't get around it.  I couldn't come down on the ball.  I knew if I hit it, it was going to stop the club, which it did and I shanked it up.  Then, I had a horrible shot.  So, I took my poison and went on with it.  I thought I had a good putt on 3.  Thought I hit a good putt on 2, 2 and 3.  Great up-and-down on 4 and then I birdied 5.  And I hit a great putt on 6, and birdied 7.  I think I'm doing great.  But then --.

Q.  You were happy with the way you struck the ball?
ED DOUGHERTY:  Yeah, I was very happy.

Q.  (Inaudible.)
ED DOUGHERTY:  I don't think I missed a whole lot of greens.  I don't know what I hit.  But I made 6 birdies and 6 bogeys this week.  And if I made 7 bogeys, five of them were 3-putts.  A bogey on 5 the first day, I hit it over the green, didn't get it up-and-down.  And then on one today.  I thought -- and I did learn a lot from Des Moines a couple of years ago, I hung in there pretty good today. 





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT