U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 23, 1998
Ed Dougherty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ED DOUGHERTY:  I hit a good shot on 16.  It went about a foot.  Somebody said it almost went in the hole and then I made about an eight-foot birdie putt on 17, so got it back to even and then we waited on 18 for a while.  I bogeyed 18 so I am little disappointed about the way I finished.

ED DOUGHERTY:  My comments on Riviera I think is a great golf course.  I have played here a lot being on the Tour.  I played here in the 95 PGA.  This course is immaculate.  I am thrilled to play here as a participant in the U.S. Senior Open.  I have been looking forward to it since last L.A. Open, and I am happy that I did as well as I did.  I am a little disappointed I didn't do a little better.


Q.  Could you talk about how difficult the course is playing, especially the kikuyu grass?

ED DOUGHERTY:  I heard Murph talking about that kikuyu grass.  It is just hit-or-miss.  I hit it in there three times today.  I made three bogeys.  I hit it in the 8th hole just off the fairway and I mean, you know, I got some good arms on me.  I whacked it out.  I hit it out maybe about 30 yards and then 12, I hit it to the left and I thought I had a pretty good lie and I tried to hit the 6-iron.  I didn't clear the hazard; hit on the very top.  I could still play the ball, and then on 18, the chip shot, I had on 18, I mean, it was just -- it was just a clump, like if this (indicating the mic head) was the ball, it was just -- engulfed the ball I hit it about 10 foot then I made a nice chip to make a bogey.  So it is baffling to say the best.


Q.  Is that the toughest part about the course this week?

ED DOUGHERTY:  I think so, if you miss the fairway you know you are going to be in that stuff and sometimes you might get a good lie to be able to advance the ball, but a lot of times it just sinks down to the bottom.  And even if you are in the rough, you can't run it on these greens because the fairways are so thick and lush, and I guess that is kikuyu, cut-down and that just grabs it.  It is like you always hit everything with backspin on it.

ED DOUGHERTY:  I have played here in the L.A. Open  for many years and I played here in the 95 PGA.

ED DOUGHERTY:  It is much thicker and heavier right now for the USGA event.  In the 95 PGA, the last major they had here, the greens weren't in very good shape.  I have got to take my hat off to the Riviera people to get this course in this good of shape.  It is immaculate.  And, the longer it is, the harder it is.  It is much like anything.  And you just hope you keep the damn ball out of it.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT