U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 29, 2002
Ed Dougherty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   A couple of late bogeys and then you came back?
ED DOUGHERTY:  I got a big break on 15, I hit it left and it bounced on the green.  I tried to lay it up and go to the right and it stayed up there.  And I missed the putt.  And I hit a good shot on the next hole and just didn't --.

Q.  Good day for you, and you started off -- your nose was pretty close to the front there?
ED DOUGHERTY:  Whatever.  I just played -- it's a hard golf course.  I drove it pretty good, gave myself chances, which is what you have to do in an Open.  I'm pretty happy about that.

Q.  Can you talk about what it means to be here in contention, going into the final day of the Senior Open?
ED DOUGHERTY:  It's nice to be playing this good, to be up here, but just have to play tomorrow, that's all.

Q.  What's your mind set going in?
ED DOUGHERTY:  What's my mind set?  Everybody has their own agenda in the Open.  My agenda was just to improve one position with my best finish in the Open.  You know what that was?

Q.  Second.  Does this have any memories about --?
ED DOUGHERTY:  It's a great memory.  I said a couple of years ago, it's great to play well in a USGA event.  Des Moines was a hard golf course, and this certainly was a hard golf course.  I'm thrilled to be here, really.

Q.  Can you talk about the birdie on 18.  How far was that and what did you see there?
ED DOUGHERTY:  I saw the putt break six inches downward, got to the hole and went downward.  I had about 20-foot, left-to-right putt and I hit it out there -- I putted well, even though I had two 3-putts.  That was the icing on the cake.  That allowed my dinner to taste a lot better tonight.

Q.  What would it mean to come out and win the Open tomorrow?
ED DOUGHERTY:  You know, I'll answer that tomorrow.  I'm not in the mind set to do that now.  I'll go out and play the best I can.  A couple of years ago I wouldn't answer that question.  I'll answer it, if I'm standing here with a trophy or crown on my head.  Until then, I'm going to try my heart out.

Q.  Can I ask about your putter grip, red, white and blue, any special reason for that?
ED DOUGHERTY:  I got wounded in Vietnam.  No.  I only got a red, white and blue putter grip because it's oversized, and the guys in the trailer, that's the only one they had.

Q.  You're not patriotic?
ED DOUGHERTY:  No, I'm proud to be an American.  My head covers are red, white and blue.  They tease me about the putter grip, but it's all right. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
ED DOUGHERTY:  I wish.  Didn't help me on 15 and 16.

Q.  Is the start going to be a key tomorrow, getting a couple of birdies early?
ED DOUGHERTY:  Probably.  But the way I would hope for my game to be starting tomorrow is to hit the ball solidly and give myself chances and get the confidence going.  Don't put emphasis on birdies or pars.  You know how you're playing, and then you get your level and then you go from there. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT