FORD SENIOR PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
July 14, 2001
Ed Dougherty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ED DOUGHERTY:   You know, 4-under I think is what I shot.  That's a pretty good round out there.  I made one bogey, and I thought I hit a pretty good shot when that happened.  My birdies was I hit a 9-iron on 2 and made about a 12-foot putt.  I hit a 3-iron on three hole high and I 2-putted from just off the fringe there.  I hit an 8-iron on 9 and I made a long putt.  I made about  -- I would say a 50-footer on 9 for a birdie.  Then I hit a lob-wedge onto six-foot and birdied that one. I bogeyed 12 and I hit a pitching wedge on 16 to about a foot and a half.  A little disappointed the way I played the par 5s.  I didn't birdie 7 or 13, and hopefully I'll do that tomorrow.  I was thrilled the other day and I'm still thrilled to be here.  It's a big tournament and a hard golf course and I'm doing all right.  The bogey I hit a 7-iron to the middle of the green, and when I looked up, the wind was blowing a little bit left and it went down into the swale.  I was the first one to play.  All three of the players ended up down there and I hit it and hit it a little too hard.  I ended up making I good 4, if that's possible. 

Q.  Were you aware that four or five players kept changing the lead back and forth? 

ED DOUGHERTY:   Yeah. 

Q.  Were you checking?

ED DOUGHERTY:   No.  I wasn't checking.  When you're playing golf, the scoreboards are right there off the greens and you can see what happens.  I know one time Jay Sigel ran off with a bunch of birdies.  So I wasn't checking or  -- you know, but I know the leaderboard was active. 

Q.  (Inaudible)?

ED DOUGHERTY:   Yeah, I'm thrilled to be here. 

Q.  (Inaudible) -- the disaster that hit a couple guys  --

ED DOUGHERTY:   I just wanted to hit fairways and greens, try to keep the ball in play.  You've got to do that all year.  Just stayed with the game plan. 

Q.  Can you talk about the conditions, how much tougher it was today?  How good was that score? 

ED DOUGHERTY:   I think a score is good -- any time I go under par; I say it's great. The conditions, it looks like some of the fairways were losing it from the heat or the wind is drying them out.  I think the greens and the fairways are getting real firm. 

Q.  (Inaudible)?

ED DOUGHERTY:   Well, I played in this type of wind on Thursday.  So did Allen.  I think we played in the worst weather wind-wise more than anything.  Probably helped us a little bit today because it was similar conditions to what we had Thursday afternoon.  You know, this place, it's just one shot at a time.  Just tried to play fairways and greens. 

Q.  How much different is that strategy from a normal week or a non-major event on the Senior Tour?  Does it look a lot different? 

ED DOUGHERTY:   It's a little bit different, because on the regular tour out here, usually you have to go pretty low.  When we got here on Tuesday, you know, we could see the fairways were starting to get firm and we knew the greens were not going to get any softer.  So you just go to being a little bit more patient and playing  -- trying to get into that thought process, you know, where par is a good score.  A lot of times out here, you've got to be in the 60s.  You've got to run with it once you get a chance out here, because the guys are good players. 

Q.  You led at Des Moines, obviously, in a major before, so you've been in this seat.  Before will you draw on that at all, and what can you draw from it? 

ED DOUGHERTY:   The only thing I can draw on is I'm Irish -- inaudible -- these are three rounds  -- if we could just play three-rounds majors.  Like I said the other day, I think Des Moines, when it happened a couple years ago, I might have been disappointed I came in second, but I knew eventually I'd be proud about the way I did it or the way I played.  I played good out there.  Dave Eichelberger played great.  I think I do have something to draw on this week.  It may have helped me.  It's still a thrill, and it's a major, like you say, but I don't think  -- I don't think I'm going to do anything different tonight than I normally do. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT