U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 1999
Ed Dougherty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ED DOUGHERTY:  Thank you.  It is discouraging in the sense that I didn't accomplish the win, but I honestly don't feel that I blew this tournament.  I went out there; I played pretty good today.  I hit a lot of quality shots.   I did make a double-bogey, but that is golf.  Dave Eichelberger is the man who won this tournament.  He went out and shot a phenomenal round of golf.  I take my hat off to him.  I just wasn't good enough. 
 
ED DOUGHERTY:  I don't know.  I had a good time.  I told you yesterday I was playing to play fairways and greens.  I don't think I missed a fairway today.  Couldn't hit a green, like the first five or six holes, but I was making some great chip shots and made nice pars.  I made a three-putt on 3 and got it going, and I stood up on the 14th hole -- is that the par 3, I believe -- stood up there.  I had like 161 yards to the pin, and I felt real pumped up.  I thought I could hit 8-iron on that top plateau and have it somewhere around the green.  When I hit the ball, I swep (sic) it instead of pinching it, so I knew I put a lot of backspin on it.  Didn't hit it solid enough to carry up there.  Came down that false front into the rough, a hard chip shot, but I got it up to the plateau.  So I sort of accomplished something there.  Thinking now I have a chance to make par, maybe worse, a bogey.  Then Hale putts for his birdie putt, and the ball is just barely moving and ended up eight foot by the hole.  For some reason, I just couldn't get that image out of my mind when I was putting, and I tried to lag this thing up there.  I was almost trying to play for a 2-putt.  And as a result, I hit the worst putt I hit all week and I only hit about 4, 5 foot.  It left me maybe a 3-footer, and I hit that one -- I thought it went in, but it did more than a 360.  I don't know what it would end up.  Like a 420 or something.  I have no idea.  It went all the way around the hole.  Now 15 comes up; now I got to shoot some birdies.  I tried.  I went for it on 15.  I didn't think I could get there, but I figured if I got it up on that plateau I could have a decent little chip.  But my club sort of bounced there, and it ran past, and I still had a birdie putt.  I just left it a couple of feet, couple of inches short.  But after just 3-putting the hole before, because I hit the ball too hard, I think that was sort of natural.  I am disappointed about it.  But 16, I watched Hale hit his driver down there.  I thought he went too far in those, and those trees would come into play, so hit 3-wood right in the middle of the fairway.  Ended up in a divot.  That was discouraging.   I hit a pretty good shot out of there.  I thought I was on the green, and I ended up against the collar, and all I am looking now is that I am looking everything downhill past the hole.  And I left that a couple of inches short, and my caddie said:  Come on, Ed.  We have got to make a couple of birdies. What the hell am I doing out here?  (Laughter).  But he was saying, you know, for encouragement, he was behind me 100%.  On 17, I didn't hit that green the whole week.  I hit a good shot in there.  I saw the ball land; I sort of cut it in there.  I thought the ball stopped up by the pin.  I picked up my tee, I am walking to the green, and I get up on the green.  I don't see the ball, and it ran through the green into the back fringe, and that was a little disappointing.  Then I 3-putted that one, which was really disappointing.  18, I guess I was just playing for second place, which is a nice thing to say that you can do, but it is a terrible situation to be in when you didn't want to be in second place.  I made a great 2-putt on 18, and the crowd was outstanding.  They gave me a tremendous ovation.  I am taking home great memories. And I am proud to say that I came in second in the U.S. Open.  I don't think there is a lot of people who can say that. 
 

Q.  (inaudible)
 
ED DOUGHERTY:  I imagine it was somewhere between eight to ten feet and left it two to three foot short.  Hit a horrible putt.  You guys are writers, but I can spell horrible, I can tell you that. 
 

Q.  When you got to the course today and you saw what the conditions were having a one-shot lead, did you feel you had a target number you had to go shoot to win today or you just think you could grind pars out?
 
ED DOUGHERTY:  No, I just -- I was proud the way I played.  I had it what, 3-under through 13 holes.  I just played one bad hole really.  And you know, it happens.  I wish I didn't do it, but I gave it 100% even though on that short putt -- I didn't get up there and slap it in there, I thought it was a great day for golf.  I wish it would have been a great day for Ed Dougherty but it turned out to be a pretty good day for me. 
 

Q.  Did you sense that you were clearly the crowd favorite and, if so, your thoughts about that?
 
ED DOUGHERTY:  I thought the crowd was behind everybody. They gave me a tremendous ovation that I am taking home with memories.  I can, you know, wouldn't be able to tell the people at home how nice it made me feel.  But it has been a tremendous week for me and I think they were for Hale too.  That is sort of a tough question to say.  I think they were for everybody.  I think everybody got inspired by the crowds.  I said early in the week, come out here, practice day on Monday, you got 25,000 people, I mean, you better put your best foot forward; I don't care who you are, whether you are amateur playing in the U.S. Open or a grizzly old Tour veteran you have got 25,000 people out there, you want to perform; your motor goes on.  I think this crowd brought out the best.  I think it was a pretty exciting U.S. Open.  Who was the guy who asked me what I wanted to do like this morning or something.  There was a question back here.  You know that commercial, you want to be like Mike?  I wanted to play like Payne today.  Honestly, that was my thought in the sense I wanted to stay as calm and as cool as he did and I thought he did great and I was just trying to accomplish what he did.  That is the one thought, other than fairways and greens, I just wanted to do - play like Payne. 
 

Q.  What does this week do for you in terms of giving you additional confidence and experience going into the rest of the season?
 
ED DOUGHERTY:  Well, I am supposed to qualify tomorrow in Chicago and I know the let-down will be too good.  I have got to have a couple of molars removed and something off my nose so I withdrew from that.  I am fifth alternate in Chicago next week, I am not playing.  And I don't think I will be playing in Minnesota, so it is just -- time off, that is all.  I played all my life on the Tour, if you finish in the Top-10 very next week, you are automatically in.  This is about the fifth time I had finished in the Top-10 and I am not in the following week -- don't get me started on the SENIOR TOUR. 
 

Q.  Could you describe for us the difference in, say, the first two rounds of an Open as opposed to the last two rounds and in terms of the pressure, the approach that you have to take?
 
ED DOUGHERTY:  I never really felt any pressure.  I think pressure is what you put on yourself.  I went out there.  I am pretty proud of the attitude that I took.  Everybody has called me, all my friends say, Ed, looks like you are enjoying it.  Roger Maltbie paid me a nice compliment.  He said usually I am too intense, but I just think the pin placements got harder on Saturday and Sunday and I think the course you know, reared its -- bit me.  I shot over par on the weekend at the U.S. Open.  That is unfortunate.  If I shot par, I probably could have -- well tied, I guess.  If -- that comes into the "if story":  If a bullfrog had wings, he wouldn't bump his rear every time he jumped.  I gave it my best shot.  I don't want to say if I did this on 14 -- I wasn't backing up.  I was going forward.  Just that I blew a tire, that is all. 
 
ED DOUGHERTY:  This guy is enjoying it here. 
 
ED DOUGHERTY:  I failed speech at Saint James. 
 
ED DOUGHERTY:  Thank for everything that you wrote about me this week.  My friends said it was great.  I really do thank you very much.  All right, bye. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT