U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 1999
Ed Dougherty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ED DOUGHERTY:  Eichelberger won this golf tournament.  I didn't blow it.  I played pretty good.  It is a major championship.  I came in second.  I didn't accomplish what I wanted to, but I did pretty damn good. 
 

Q.  Talk about the joys of being the front-runner and pressures?
 
ED DOUGHERTY:  It a feather in my cap in the sense that I can say I led the Open in the three days.  Probably only tournament in the Senior that is not a three-day tournament.  I want to talk to the USGA guys about that.  There is not a golfer in America that doesn't go on the range and envision a practice shot, saying:  This is for the Open; this putt is to tie the Open - I just lived that dream so I thank the USGA for running a great tournament.  And I just wasn't good enough today, that is all. 
 

Q.  What happened on 14?
 
ED DOUGHERTY:  14, I thought I could hit an 8-iron on that plateau.  It has like a false front.  When I hit the ball, I swept it.  I didn't pinch it.  I put a lot of spin on it.  Came back down.  I chipped it up which was an accomplishment because if I did not hit it hard enough it could come back down that plateau I got it on top.  I have about a, I would say eight or nine-footer.  I watched Hale's putt go by the hole - just trickling -- ended up like eight foot by.  For some reason, I am ready to putt.  I couldn't get that out of my mind.  I was just sort of lagging.  I was trying to make bogey there in the sense that -- because if I goosed that putt, I could have had a 10-footer or something and as a result I hit a very poor putt; probably the worst putt I hit all week.  And then I had like two or three-footer and I thought I made that one, maybe I hit it too hard.  It went out one end came -- or in one end came out the other.  And I had a chance to make birdie on 15.  I just didn't hit it hard enough.  16, I hit a good drive.  I was in the divot and I hit a good 9-iron.  I almost made birdie.  17 I thought I hit good shot.  Now I am in a situation that I didn't want to be; I wanted to, you know, I had to make some birdies.  17, I thought I hit a good shot.  I saw the ball land on the green, I saw it go up; I pick up my tee; I honestly thought I was 10, 12-foot when I walked on the green.  My ball was on the back fringe.  That putt fooled me.  I didn't play par 3s very good evidently.  I can't fool me. 
 

Q.  When you play a final round do you watch the leaderboard a little bit?
 
ED DOUGHERTY:  No, I didn't watch the leaderboard.  I was pretty proud of the way I played today to be honest with you. Hale is a great guy to play with in the sense that I mean, his record is, you know, speaks for itself, so I told him it's an honor to play with him.  I do feel that way.  Everybody -- it was  a good day.  I had a great day.  I just didn't win the tournament, but I had a great time. 
 

Q.  Should a pro golf event come back to this venue?
 
ED DOUGHERTY:  I don't want to speak for the USGA but I will imagine it will be back here some day.  I just think it is great, honestly.  I will take these memories home about people cheering and it was great.  They were equally for Hale.  Everybody was behind somebody and I think that is great for a sporting event and this is major leagues here.  I really do.  It was great, honestly, take nothing but good memories home from Des Moines. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT