ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 10, 2014
Frank Beamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


  FRANK BEAMER:   I think Coach McNeill at East Carolina and his staff have really done an excellent job, both in recruiting and in developing their team.   They really are a very, very good football team.   Their quarterback, Carden, can really, really throw the ball, very, very accurate, got some excellent people there to throw to.   The offensive line I think has helped themselves.   I think they can run the ball better.   They added a couple guys there on the offensive line that's allowed them to run the ball better, I think, and then defensively they're just very athletic, very aggressive.   Just really impressed with this football team.   They've certainly got our full attention and certainly got our respect from having played them in the past. 
Last couple games has been a five‑point game, seven‑point game.   We've never beaten them‑‑ and of course they've gotten us a couple times, but it's always been within a low scoring or very close game when we play East Carolina. 
We know what to expect.   They're not going to surprise us.   We know how they're going to play, and we've just got to make sure we're ready to play. 

Q.   You guys did such a great job against Ohio State of pressuring the quarterback.   This ECU team gets rid of the ball so quickly.   How do you get pressure on a quarterback that's going to release the ball as quickly as they do?
FRANK BEAMER:   Well, you make the‑‑ you ask the question and make the point, really.   It's hard.   They get it out of their hands.   They know you've got a veteran quarterback that knows where he wants to go with the ball.   He reads quickly, and the ball is coming out of there. 
It's not like we're going to sit back there and hold the ball. 
You hope that you can get some people around him, but I think getting to him is going to be very, very difficult. 

Q.   And from your side, the tight ends have obviously been such a big part of your offense so far this season.   It was missing last year after Malleck's injury.   How much better does having those two guys playing right now make your offense? 
FRANK BEAMER:   I think it makes it a lot better.   You know, you just look at the plays they've made, 3rd down catches that Malleck has made, big plays Hodges has made, and we're hoping to get Cline back here.   If we could get him, put him in that mix, also, I think he's another guy that's just like Malleck and Hodges, really:   Athletic but got some toughness to block.   I think then that would give us another guy that from a personnel standpoint where you don't mind splitting him out and doing some things with him and keeping him in tight to block some. 
That's been a big deal.   Ryan Malleck is a valuable, valuable part of this football team, and Hodges, certainly his production has been good.   That makes us a different team.   I think with those guys in there, it makes us a different team. 

Q.   The way you guys were able to get pressure on Carden last year with eight sacks, is he a different enough player that you change it up how you go after him, or do you feel like you need to track him down the same way as last year?
FRANK BEAMER:   He's year older and they've had another year to watch film, and I've got to tell you, the film I've seen on him so far, that ball doesn't stay in his hands long.   I'm sure that it's a different year.   It's a different time, and I think it's going to be tough to get to him. 

Q.   How has Michael Brewer adjusted to what you want to do on offense so quickly, especially coming from a different background on offense? 
FRANK BEAMER:   Yeah, you know, he's a very smart guy.   That's number one.   And then number two, I think routes may be a little bit different and all that.   But a flat route usually goes with a curl, and inside route usually goes with an out route by the outside game, or just a corner route.   It's all football, and he has a good football mind.   He knows how to play the quarterback position.   His family, his dad, his granddad, they played, and the game makes sense to him.   I'm all the time saying that about some guys, but it really does make sense to him.   I think he understands football and how it should be played really well. 

Q.   Then on the other side of that, have you guys adjusted to what he's comfortable doing in terms of more shotgun and things like that?
FRANK BEAMER:   Oh, yeah.   And of course we've done that, but I think you always try to look at your personnel and what do you do best and what do you like and what do you feel comfortable with, confident in, and adjust in that direction. 

Q.   I don't know how many guys you've had over the years do both football and ROTC, and I don't know if it's been many, but what do you think of Kalvin doing both football and how does he handle the time commitment that's involved with both of those?
FRANK BEAMER:   Football and ROTC? 

Q.   Yeah. 
FRANK BEAMER:   No, we haven't had many, but I talked with his dad and talked with him, and that's what they wanted to do.   It is, I think from a physical standpoint, it's very demanding.   And I coached for a long time at the Citadel, so I have a pretty good idea of the military life and so forth.   You know, he's handling it fine.   The ROTC and us, we're working together, too, in Kalvin's best interest in trying to‑‑ his time and make sure we've got some give and take as far as that goes.   You know, he wants to do it, and he should do it if that's his future, and if it's not in the NFL, he's interested in the military, and that's what he should do. 

Q.   A lot of talk this week about Bud's defense against Ohio State, and I just wonder your thoughts on over the years the way he's been able to adapt his defense to the times, in a long time span and just on a week‑to‑week basis.   Is that to you the most impressive part about him as a defensive coordinator? 
FRANK BEAMER:   Yeah, you know, he really has a great understanding, a great mind for football.   He's very good at the game, what are they trying to do to us, and he has enough experience where he can get an adjustment going very quickly.   There's nothing better.   I think if you asked across the country, number one or top defensive coordinators, Bud would be in every single one of them.   To me he's the best defensive coordinator in the country.   He's a valuable part of our program for sure. 

Q.   Was he always like that in terms of just being so flexible with his scheme when he first was a coordinator?   Is that something that came over time, or was he always very flexible in game and just week to week with his schemes?
FRANK BEAMER:   Yeah, he's developed.   When I went to Murray State, he was A‑technique, and he wasn't like myself, and like I think a lot of good football coaches, he may not be the most gifted player, but you have to really be smart and don't take false steps and be a good technique guy.   He was like that.   I mean, he was a good player, sound as could be, and then he stayed under me and coached, and then came here with us and then was co‑defensive coordinator one year, and then I guess he worked with Phil Elmassian that one year, and then co‑defensive coordinator. 
You know, he's developed.   He's made good of every opportunity, and really uses the experiences he's had.   You see him, he puts them to used to.   He's a big, big part of this program for sure.





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT