ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 20, 2013
Frank Beamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


  COACH BEAMER:   Well, we have a very, very important game left, University of Virginia.   Got an off week here.   Probably from a health standpoint, that's not bad.   Probably from a mental standpoint, it's not bad. 
But we're practicing three times this week, not long practices, but short, very quick practices.   Their movement, I want it to be quick.   Then we'll go into our regular game preparation next week. 
Important game.   Need to play our very best. 
Questions. 

Q.   Coach, because coming out of your last bye, you lost two games after that, is there anything different you do as far as your approach, how you treat the bye week this time?
COACH BEAMER:   Well, actually we're practicing one more time this week than we did last.   We're actually practicing one more time next week. 
I think from an emphasis standpoint, an execution standpoint, we'll see if this way doesn't work better. 

Q.   With the difference the offense showed between Miami and Maryland, is there anything you would like to see more or less of out of your offense right now? 
COACH BEAMER:   I think continuing to work.   I think Maryland should get credit because I think defensively they played extremely well against us, kept us off balance a little bit.   We'd like to get back to how we were doing at Miami.   Different games, different ways of attacking you.   But still the fundamentals of running the football are still there.   We need to block, get a little gap, back stick it up in there.   If we did that, it would help Logan and our passing game. 
There's no secrets here; it's just a matter of getting it done. 

Q.   Statistically there's not a whole lot of difference between this year's offense and last year's.   Are there things you've seen in this year's offense to suggest that things are moving forward with this new offensive staff or anything you've seen that you like what they've done so far?
COACH BEAMER:   Yes.   Again, I go back, and I had good coaches last year.   We do things a little bit different.   I like the way we do things.   I like how we coach on the field, our offensive thoughts, what goes into the game plan.   I mean, I like it a lot. 
I think over time this offensive staff is going to be really, really good.   I've always been blessed with good coaches.   It was that way last year.   I'm as positive as can be that we're heading in the right direction right now. 

Q.   Is there a way to explain the ups and downs that you've had, looking so good last week against Miami, then struggling like you did against Maryland?
COACH BEAMER:   Again, I think it's different personnel each week, different defenses they run.   But there shouldn't be that big a gap. 
I think personnel enters into it, their personnel, your personnel, how consistent that personnel is.   I think we'll continue to get better.   The more we're with this offensive staff, then with our players, I think the better it will get.   No question in my mind. 

Q.   Frank, what will you do on Saturday as far as watching the other coastal teams play?   The scenarios are almost impossible to calculate on what can still happen in the division.   Do you sit back and watch?   Will you think, Well, if this team wins, that will help me, so on?   How do you approach all that?
COACH BEAMER:   I think the losses that we've had, for us to still have a chance of representing our side, the coastal, in the championship game, I feel fortunate that we're in that position.   We know what needs to happen for us to do that, for us to represent the coastal. 
I think you'd like to see that happen.   At least this Saturday, it's out of our hands.   It's in somebody else's hands.   I think we look at the games, see what happens, and go from there. 

Q.   The scenarios are so crazy.   Could you have imagined anything like this at the start the season?
COACH BEAMER:   It makes it interesting.   For us to sit here with three losses in the conference and still have a chance of representing our side is very unusual. 
But I think there's a lot of teams on our side that are very close to each other.   That's the way it's turned out. 

Q.   I know you have an off week this week after the Maryland game.   Talk about what happened to Logan Thomas last week.   Seems like he had an off week.   Did Maryland's defense just swarm him a little bit more?
COACH BEAMER:   No, I think sometimes you look at one guy.   I give credit to Maryland's defense.   I think they were very good, had a good game plan, all that.   But for a quarterback, it's really the people around you.   I don't think there's any question about Logan's talent.   The pro scouts that come through here, there's no question about Logan's talent.   That's not in question. 
I think how consistent you are around him, that goes to your runningbacks, to your wide receivers, to your offensive line, to your tight ends, how consistent they play really affects the production of your offense. 
That's kind of where we are right now.   I think, without question, we're a little bit too inconsistent in how we play around our quarterback. 

Q.   I know you have an off week.   What is it like playing against the Cavaliers?
COACH BEAMER:   For us, our fan base, it's the biggest game of the year.   I'm sure it's the same for them.   It's been a big game around here for a long time.   It will continue that way. 
I think it's two programs that do it the right way.   I think recruiting‑wise, how we do business.   I would hope the fans in this state would be proud of both schools and how we go about our business. 
It's a big game for us, I can tell you that, no question. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT