ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 13, 2013
Frank Beamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


  COACH BEAMER:   I know Maryland has lost quite a few kids to injuries.   I think you're getting some of them back now.   I think they're an extremely dangerous football team.   I think their quarterback C.J. Brown is back and got a game under his belt last week.   You look at them, and they move the ball extremely well in their last game they just turned it over.   Then defensively fought around and played hard.   
So, you know, the game we knew from the past that what you do on Saturday and we've got to go play and play a really good football game to beat this Maryland crowd.   Questions?   
   
 Q.   I know you had the sellout streak this year.   I think there are 2500 tickets left for Saturday.   I just wanted you to comment on sort of the attendance, the crowds this year, and what you see going on there?   
COACH BEAMER:   Well, I know fans have been very loyal.   Down in Miami I think they were the last to leave down there and still very vocal at the end.   I know if they could be here, they would be here.   I don't think anyone has a more loyal fan base than we do.   
   
 Q.   Do you have to do anything with your seniors?   You've been through so many of these final home games, do you have to do anything to calm them down so they don't get caught up in that emotion?   
COACH BEAMER:   We talk about it because it's an emotional time.   It's emotional for everyone.   To have the parents out there on the field and playing your last game in Lane Stadium.   I mean, it is an emotional time.   
I think you've got to think about it, put it all‑‑ plan for it, prepare for it, and get ready to play.  
   
 Q.   I was looking at the Fuller family, obviously, local to us here in Maryland.   And I just wondered, with the exception of maybe the Browners, have you ever heard or experienced a family that had so many brothers that are not only playing major college football, but playing for the same school?   
COACH BEAMER:   No, I tell you, it's a wonderful family.   They're a very, very talented family, and then just all of them have been great kids, very smart, great football players, great to have them in your program.   They do things right on and off the field.   So this is I'm glad Danny way, way back decided to come to Virginia Tech because that started it all, and we've been fortunate to get the other guys here too.  
   
 Q.   When you've got the first one, of course you didn't know you'd hit the jackpot to that extent, did you?   
COACH BEAMER:   No, no, not at all, but we really have been fortunate.   You know, every one of them have been just a delight to have in the program.   Kory got away from us for a while.   He got out to Kansas on track and then came back, and turned out to be a fantastic football player, a fantastic wide receiver, yeah.  
   
 Q.   I wanted to ask you your thoughts personally on how Jim Weaver's decision to retire just affects you?   
COACH BEAMER:   Oh, I'm very sad.   He's been a fantastic athletic director, we've always had a great relationship, a great working relationship.  
It's a sad day.   You know, he's really been good for Virginia Tech.   He made a lot of great decisions.   His success in all the programs, basically all the programs around here would point to.   So Virginia Tech will miss Jim Weaver, that's for sure.  
   
 Q.   Your wives are pretty good friends aren't they as well?   
COACH BEAMER:   Yeah, Traci and Cheryl are great friends.   It's just we've always had a great relationship.  
   
 Q.   What about the letdown this week against Maryland.   Maryland's a very good team.   They're a couple point as way from getting their sixth win and finally Bowl eligible.   How do you get your players focused on Maryland after a big win over Miami?   
COACH BEAMER:   Well, I tell them exactly what you just said.   Then we got smart guys here.   They can turn on the video and see the game last week and see how they played, see how they played Florida State great.   They were right there at the half with them.   So I mean, all you've got to do is turn the video on you're right.   They're a good football team and a dangerous football team as I said earlier.   
   
 Q.   I talked to your seniors, what do you like about having all your seniors on Senior Day playing their final game down there?   
COACH BEAMER:   Well, the other thing is all of them, I think we've got 13, and ten of them graduated and the other three will graduate at the end of this semester.   I'm proud of that too.   Not only have they won a lot of football games, they leave here with a degree.   We've got to thank our academic department down here, Sarah Armstrong and all the people there in academics for doing a great job with them in that regard too.  
   
 Q.   Couple weeks ago when you lost back‑to‑back games against Duke and Boston College, I know things looked bleak.   But you're back in position to play Charlotte if you win out probably.   I know there are some other things, but can you talk about being in that position despite the little slip‑up there?   
COACH BEAMER:   You know, I'm proud of football team and coaches we had two tough losses.   Both teams that beat us played great, but it was tough losses.   Then going to Miami and trying to beat a team that I think is really, really good.   They were ranked last week.   To go in there and play as good a football game as we did when our backs were definitely against the wall, then to play the way we did, you know, it's just you have real pride in your football team that they came back like that.   
But now it's week to week, and we've got to come back and get ready to play this week.   If we don't play well this week, Maryland is very capable, and what happened last week doesn't make very much difference at all.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about Logan Thomas and his play?   He played very well against Miami and threw for a lot of yards though he had a couple mistakes.   Can you talk about how he's playing right now?   
COACH BEAMER:   I'm proud of him and you're right.   Except for a couple of plays against B.C., he played a great football game up there.   But those two plays kind of set the tone.   He hung in there.   Lot of things are being said and some of them certainly shouldn't be said.   But he hung in there and he came back and played a great football game.   He put it all together.   I think he handled the adversity just like our football team did.   
But he's a leader and he certainly handled adversity extremely well, and as a result led our football team to a great win.  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT