ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 6, 2013
Frank Beamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


  FRANK BEAMER:   I think Miami is a very, very impressive football team.   I think you look at their offensive line, very good, probably the best offensive line we've played overall, quarterback has got experience.   Seemed like the next running back down there is just waiting to become a star, and I think Crawford kind of fits that deal, and wide receivers, they've always had those and got them again.   And defense, I think they compare right up there with Alabama's defense.   They're good up front, can run, linebackers are exceptionally good, I think, and then their secondary can cover.   This is a really good football team.   Florida State got them on a couple long plays, plays that turned into long plays, and Florida State's quarterback made a couple of fantastic plays.   But overall this team is really, really solid. 
Questions?

Q.   Just wondering what the confidence level of the team, obviously two disappointing losses.   How do you get them to put them behind them and focus on this Miami game?
FRANK BEAMER:   Well, I think it's very simple.   A couple weeks ago we had won six in a row by not turning the ball over, and the last two games we turned the ball over.   So to me it's pretty simple. 

Q.   I know Logan has all eight of those to his name.   How much of that falls on him?
FRANK BEAMER:   Well, he had a couple plays there, but I'm going to tell you, other than a couple of plays, he played a fantastic ballgame.   His throwing and accuracy, I mean, if you take those two plays out of there, and it's a shame because he was getting ready to have a career day, and he did have a career day in a lot of ways, and then two plays kind of messed it up.
That's kind of the quarterback, but I can assure you it's not just our quarterback.   We as a football team and as an offense, we've got to do our job, and if we do that‑‑ one of the interceptions came up because we missed a block right off the get‑go, now we've got a guy in our face and now we've got a quarterback that's trying to make a play, and it ends up being a disaster.   It's not just the quarterback.

Q.   Charley Wiles talked a little bit last night about how you guys need to get Dadi Nicolas more involved in the game.   I know he was going to be playing whip more, but how do you get him more involved against Miami?
FRANK BEAMER:   Well, you know, last week, I forget the exact numbers, we played nine or ten plays and had about 12 points.   You get points for doing things exceptionally well.   So he's a productive guy, so there's no question we need to get him in the game, and he's going back to his home area right there.   But we need to‑‑ we need for him to be back in the ARB back in the game more than he was last week, that's for sure. 

Q.   And I know Antone Exum has been back a couple weeks now, but I don't know if he's back to 100 percent.   How close do you feel like he is, and does that change how you guys are using him out there, or are you using him like he's 100 percent?
FRANK BEAMER:   Well, I think he's getting closer every week.   You know, a couple of things last week, you thought, okay, at the end of the year last year he probably would have made that catch on the interception or whatever or maybe trusted his‑‑ where he's got a receiver and not grab him.   But I think he's getting closer every week and will continue to get better. 

Q.   Luther mentioned that maybe he was a little too hyped up, jacked up for last year's Miami game because it was homecoming.   Do you say anything to Luther, to Dadi, to the guys that are going home for this game?
FRANK BEAMER:   Not really.   We talked about it as a team and the respect we have for Miami and what a great effort it's going to take to beat a team as good as Miami and be ready to play.   And you've got to be ready to play at a high level. 
I'd rather have to calm them down rather than speed them up, I promise you. 

Q.   And Luther, just how would you evaluate the way Luther Maddy has played for you on the D‑line this year?
FRANK BEAMER:   I think he's been exceptionally good.   I think he's a very steady, dependable, solid, tough player that has been very, very good. 

Q.   Is it a little frustrating, Cody Journell just kicked a 56‑yard field goal Saturday that ties for the longest in FBS, yet I think he's also missed more field goals than any kicker in the ACC.   His percentage is 62 percent.   I know he missed a couple of makeable ones two weeks ago that could have changed the outcome of the Duke game.   Is that frustrating for you to have a guy with that kind of talent that has been that inconsistent? 
FRANK BEAMER:   Well, he's back.   He's kind of like a golfer; he played a bad nine holes, and then he got off to a bad start and then started probably thinking too much and hit the next one in the woods.   But he's back.   I mean, I watch him every day in practice, and he's back as far as his rhythm and getting it through the middle of the goal post.   I think that's just one of those things, I think you always think kickers are a lot like golfers, and they get on streaks and sometimes it's a good streak and then when they get bad, they're trying to think about their swing, and I think that happened to Cody a little bit. 

Q.   So you've obviously reached a point with him where you have the confidence that you'll use him in a crucial situation without question? 
FRANK BEAMER:   Oh, absolutely, absolutely.   You know, with those good kickers, when they've got‑‑ they're consistent, the flight is the same, and when they do that time after time after time, they may get off course there a little bit, but they'll get it back, and I think Cody is exactly in that category. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT