ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 30, 2013
Frank Beamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


  COACH BEAMER:   Really impressed with Andre Williams and this Boston College football team.   Their toughness, their execution.   They present problems on both sides of the ball.   How they come after you on defense, the toughness in their running game.   
You see so much open‑field read option stuff, they kind of get you back to the basics.   I think we've got to do a great job of preparing for an offense that's kind of different than normally what you see during the season.   
We know we better crank it up and show some toughness ourselves.   
Questions.   
   
 Q.   The deal with Michael Branthover, when you paged him out of the stands on Saturday, what happened there?   
COACH BEAMER:   Ludwig pulled a muscle in warmups.   We had a couple guys there that could do the kickoff.   I really felt at practice Branthover was the second best kickoff guy as far as the distance goes, time after time distance.   
We decided to get him out there.   We weren't planning for our kickoff guy to injure himself during the warmups.  
   
 Q.   Have you ever done that before, track down a player minutes before kickoff?   
COACH BEAMER:   No, I don't think so.   I don't know that I've ever had a kicker hurt himself during warmups.   
   
 Q.   Cody Journell, he's been here so many times, made so many kicks.   Is there anything you do different with him, especially since it seem it is like he's pushing everything kind of to the left?   
COACH BEAMER:   We sat down and visited yesterday.   I do think if you're not careful, you start thinking about it too much, you start overanalyzing.   
What I told people, I told him yesterday, I've seen him kick too many good balls right down the middle to overanalyze.   Get out there, free your mind up, stay within your thoughts, go kick.   
He kicked well yesterday.   He's too good a kicker.   I just believe he's going to come back stronger than ever.   
   
 Q.   I was asking some of your players yesterday.   But since you have had a little more time to look back at the film, is there anything you can put your finger on that keeps your offense from keeping the drive going once you get to the red zone?   
COACH BEAMER:   I think you really can go back to just lack of execution.   I mean, I told our people, Are we asking you to do something you're not capable of doing?   If we are, tell us.   Are we asking you to do something physically you can't do?   Tell us.   
I don't think that's the case.   I think it's a matter of concentrating, being right time after time after time, being consistent time after time after time.   
   
 Q.   How do you rebound from last week's tough loss to Duke, now taking on a very good Boston College team?  
COACH BEAMER:   Well, it's not easy.   I said all along, how you respond to disappointment.   Duke played well.   Give them credit.   But it was a disappointing loss.   We feel like we had opportunities to win the football game, but just didn't get it done.   
Now do you come back stronger than ever, mentally tougher than ever, or do you give into it?   
I think in everyday life people go through that struggle.   We as a football team, that's what we'll find out this week.   
   
 Q.   How tough is it to play up at Boston College at Chestnut Hill?   Seem it is like a noisy place.   
COACH BEAMER:   Yeah, I like it.   The stadium is kind of in there nice and tight.   The fans are into it.   I think it's a good stadium myself, great fan support.   They get into it.   I personally like playing when the fans are interested in what's going on and they're there to cheer on their team.   
   
 Q.   I hope you get up there before the parade starts for the Red Sox before Saturday.   
COACH BEAMER:   Are they playing Saturday night?   
   
 Q.   They're playing tonight and Thursday.   They might have the parade on Saturday.   The City of Boston, they might do it Saturday or Sunday.   
COACH BEAMER:   Whatever happens, we'll work with it and get on with it.   
   
 Q.   True freshmen had three interceptions Saturday.   Can you talk about how unusual that is for guys that young to be making that kind of impact, playing that well.   
COACH BEAMER:   Future's bright, I can say that.   Kendall had a terrific day.   Had a couple more in his hands that he had a chance to intercept.   He has a great knack for the game.   Both of them are smart kids, tough kids, great athletic ability.   Kendall athletically made some great plays to intercept the ball.   
Facyson was hurt last week and didn't play, but we expect him back.   
Those are two guys you look forward to watching them play here for a while.   
   
 Q.   Have you relied that heavily on true freshmen in that position in the past?  
COACH BEAMER:   No.   Exum was hurt, but now he's back.   It ended up we needed these two guys to come through for us, and they came through probably better than you could ever expect.   
   
 Q.   I thought it was unusual, you were playing true freshmen in the secondary.   They had three true freshmen that played extensively.   Is there something going on that the guys are ready earlier now?  
COACH BEAMER:   Well, I think the further you get away from the ball, the quicker you can play.   I do believe that.   If you got athletic ability, good nose for the football, I think you can come in and play in the secondary.   It's not like a defensive lineman where you're relying on people next to you, particularly like an offensive lineman where you're always working with another guy.   
Experience means so much.   I think the further you get away, the better athletic ability helps you play quickly.   
   
 Q.   What is it about Andre Williams that makes him so special?   What sets him apart from some of the other backs that you face in the ACC?  
COACH BEAMER:   Well, he's strong, number one.   Then he's got that quick step, that little juke step.   Doesn't take him long to change directions.   You put power with that quickness, you got you a good back.   That's exactly what he is.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT