ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 16, 2013
Frank Beamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		  FRANK BEAMER:   Yeah, we're on an off week, and I think it's really coming at a good time.   I think from a get‑our‑offensive‑line‑healthy situation, it's good.   And then every game we've been in, it's been a grind.   I think that takes its toll on you mentally, and I think to have a little time mentally to get away from it and then get caught up on academics and so forth. 
I think it's coming at a good time.   We're going to get out and practice today, short practice, and then we're going to get out and get recruiting here the next couple days, try to do some things that's real critical for the football program. 

Q.   I'm just wondering, these days with all of the up‑tempo offenses you have to face, how has that changed your approach to defense? 
FRANK BEAMER:   You know, I think from our standpoint, having several defensive linemen that are capable of playing, I think that's where you really need some folks.   But to me it's just something that's there.   A lot of teams are doing it.   We do it some.   We did it a little bit more last year, and I think there's something to it.   I think dictating tempo, and I think you get from a substitution standpoint and so forth, there's some very good things that it allows you to do. 
The other side of it is I think you need a good defense because if you're in and out, it's how much you want your defense on the field, too, and how much you're going to allow them to be on the field.   So there's pluses and minuses both ways.

Q.   So is the depth really the biggest thing, that you need more depth going against these type of offenses?
FRANK BEAMER:   Yeah, and particularly I think your defensive line.   I think where they're pass rushing and‑‑ I think that's where you'd better hope you've got some extra people. 

Q.   Just curious, obviously last year didn't go the way that you had wanted, but going into this year did you feel you would be back as a top‑25 team and pushing for the Coastal again? 
FRANK BEAMER:   Well, I think we're really fortunate to be where we are.   The schedule, we play good teams and we play probably more freshmen and guys that had not played before than at any time in my time here at Virginia Tech.   But I do credit‑‑ now, the young guys that are playing are talented, and it's evident by the two freshman corners that we're playing.   But I really think we've worked well.   I think our coaching staff has done a great job, and the players have done a great job.   We've been fortunate, the ball bounced our way in some of the ballgames. 
We realize we're fortunate to be where we are, but if we're going to stay there we've got to keep grinding and keep working. 

Q.   You've heard the last few years the shots that have been taken against ACC football at times.   How good or gratifying does it feel to have the spotlight on the ACC this week for positive football? 
FRANK BEAMER:   Oh, I'll tell you, it's fantastic.   I see where it's all access at Clemson and at Florida State, and the fact you put Louisville in there and we've got four teams in, what, the top 10 I think it is, or top 11, top 12, whatever it is. 
You know, it's good, but I think‑‑ I've said all along, just give us enough time, and this is going to come around because the coaching is good, the recruiting is good, facilities are improving, and so I don't think there's any question that the ACC is going to hold its own against the competition. 

Q.   Do you think that this spotlight that you see, and if you guys continue to play well that it can trickle down and help the teams that aren't playing as well in the league because maybe recruits who want to be part of the ACC but can't necessarily be at Virginia Tech or Clemson decide to go to another school in the league? 
FRANK BEAMER:   Oh, absolutely.   I think you hear a lot about the SEC.   You hear a lot about teams within the SEC, but you hear a lot about the SEC, and I think it's the same way here.   You're going to hear about teams within the ACC.   But I think the whole conference benefits. 
I think keeping up with the Joneses or whatever, the competition within makes everyone better, so yeah, I'm all for it. 

Q.   The ACC has had a number of seasons recently where it's been very, very balanced, a lot of parity, any team can win it.   Does that hurt the perception of a conference nationally?   Do you need a dominant team to have people take notice of your conference?
FRANK BEAMER:   Well, I think if you're going to be talked about on a national level that you've got to have a team or two teams or three teams that's up there in competition for the No.1 spot.   So yeah, I mean, I think competition has always been good, but if you're going to get into the conversation for the national level then definitely you've got to have some people to talk about. 

Q.   Last year by Virginia Tech standards your defense was probably down a bit.   How did you approach this season team‑wise as far as building that back to the level that you're used to? 
FRANK BEAMER:   Well, you know, particularly a couple games last year we had the lead late, took the lead late and lost it, and that's not Virginia Tech.   But I think you learn from those experiences.   We didn't play great defense early in the year, but as we went along and got more experienced and so forth, we played better at the end of the year. 
And then we got a lot of those guys back, and there's just nothing like experience in this game.   You've got to have good players, but when you've got experienced good players, that's the ticket.   You know, that's what I feel like we've got, and I think we do a good job here of coaching them and putting them in the right position, but you've got to have some talent to make the plays when you put them there. 

Q.   Overall are you satisfied with the improvement that you've shown there this year?
FRANK BEAMER:   Yeah, I mean, we've played well for the most part.   You know, I think it's really been a vital part of our wins.   But the other side is you've got to play as a team, and offensively we haven't turned the ball over, we've punted the ball very well.   Our field goal production has been good.   So you put all those things together, don't turn the ball over, play defense, punt it well and keep field position going your way, and you've got a shot to win.   That's been the story of us this year. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT