ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 2, 2013
Frank Beamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		  COACH BEAMER:   We're getting ready to play a team that certainly got our attention last year.   Rushed for 339 yards against us, and held us to 40 yards rushing.   That was a good pounding. 
We understand what they're capable of doing.   Got a lot of those same players back.   Need to make sure we continue to improve ourselves.   We're still a very young football team that's getting older every week.   But we have first‑year players playing.   Trying to keep them going in the right direction is a priority.   So that's where we are. 
Questions. 

Q.   Coach, you've used some pretty outspoken words, 'pounding', 'hammer time'.   How much of the way you sound this week is designed to get your players' attention and remind them?
COACH BEAMER:   Were you at the game last year? 

Q.   Yes, sir. 
COACH BEAMER:   I think I'm describing it pretty accurately.   I was there, and that's what I felt over on our sideline.   It was a team that was really ready to play, played a great game against us.   We had a rough outing. 

Q.   Frank, I know everybody is excited about Exum coming back.   From what I understand, you guys don't even know if he's playing this week.   How did his first practice go and is he going to play this week?
COACH BEAMER:   We don't know.   I thought he moved well yesterday.   Today is another big workday for us.   I think after Thursday's practice, determine by talking with him and the coaching staff where he is exactly and so forth. 
Facyson has done such a good job for us, certainly having him there is a big, big positive also.   We're fortunate. 
We get Exum back, we've added some depth to our secondary, another good player to go with some guys that are really, really playing well. 

Q.   How much time this week will Facyson see at wide receiver?   Where did that come from?   I assume you know something everybody doesn't when you take one of your best defenders and put him at wide receiver.   Can you tell me a little bit about that move. 
COACH BEAMER:   We talked about it before.   We talked about it over the summer.   When this came up that Exum could possibly come back, the main thing is I think you want to get your best players on the field.   That's what we're trying to do. 

Q.   Is that something that he would get a lot of time at or just a sporadic move?
COACH BEAMER:   Yeah, we're going to get started with it this week, add to it next week, add to it the following week, get him a variety of plays. 

Q.   I know Logan was a little banged up between the foot, the ab.   Have you taken it a lot easier on him this week?   How do you keep him working but keep him fresh and healthy for Saturday?
COACH BEAMER:   He's working.   He told me yesterday he felt better this week than he did last week.   He's a tough guy.   He ran the ball several times there a week ago Thursday, in our Thursday game. 
I think a couple extra days has helped somewhat.   I think he's going to be good to go on Saturday. 

Q.   I know you mentioned North Carolina has a lot of players back.   How different do you feel that offense looks without Giovani Bernard in there? 
COACH BEAMER:   Again, they got Renner back there.   They have Ebron who is maybe the best tight end in the country.   A.J. Blue that played last year.   They got a lot of guys that were on the field against us last year.   Davis, the wide receiver.   Tapley, wide receiver.   They got quite a few back there. 

Q.   Talk about the coach for North Carolina.   I know he comes from Southern Miss.   What type of coach is he on the field? 
COACH BEAMER:   Well, they run a fast‑paced offense.   They know what they're doing.   They spread the ball out.   They got good concepts.   They scored points everywhere they've been.   Certainly they're scoring points this year with this football team. 
His football teams are known for running a lot of plays, good plays that gain yardage. 

Q.   Talk about your defense.   What do you have to do against North Carolina?
COACH BEAMER:   Keep the pass plays to a minimum.   Don't let a short run turn into a long one.   Get pressure around the quarterback.   I think anytime you can rush or throw or have people around him, that certainly helps. 
I think offensively, having time of possession, getting some points when we're in position to, that's going to be important.   That's kind of the way I see this game. 

Q.   Coach, North Carolina is coming off a very disappointing performance for them.   In your experience as a coach, is it tougher or easier, does it make no difference the team you're playing might be coming off an embarrassing game and want to rebound from that? 
COACH BEAMER:   Well, all I know is what I saw last year.   A lot of the same people back on this football team.   What I'm concerned about is Virginia Tech.   I know how things go.   I go back to Maryland beat West Virginia, then West Virginia goes out and beats Oklahoma State.   I mean, every week you can find somebody that surprises you, then there's another surprise the next week. 
This team is capable.   Excellent coaching staff.   It's a good program.   What I'm concerned about is Virginia Tech.   I'm concerned that our young guys that we're trying to bring along keep making progress. 

Q.   One of the things they said last week was they just couldn't get up to play an East Carolina team they handled in the past.   Do you worry with your young guys, a team that gave up 600 yards last week, they'll not come in with the motivation they need?
COACH BEAMER:   I'd say this:   I think this football team understands we need to play every week, prepare every week, keep making progress towards trying to get better. 
I think our football team understands that.   We certainly have respect for their program.   When you get beat like we did last year, there's tremendous respect for that program. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT