ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 25, 2013
Frank Beamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


  COACH BEAMER:   We're playing a football team that's, I think, playing extremely well, ranked in the country defensively, giving up very few points.   Offensively, just tough to prepare for and certainly in a short number of days tough to prepare for.   Then the fact that at 32 of our 69 people traveling, our first or second‑year players, you're going into a place like that with a young football team, we've got our work cut out for us.   We understand that, so got to be ready to play the best we can.  
   
 Q.   I was just noticing with Trey Edmunds with his hip, how cautious are you guys with his hip or is that anything you're really‑‑ I guess, is it very serious in your mind?   
COACH BEAMER:   Well, it's bothering him.   He practiced yesterday, but you could tell it was a problem.   But we'll see how he is tomorrow night.  
   
 Q.   With Cody Journell, with the struggles he had at East Carolina, it's looking like he worked through that, whatever the issues were, mechanics or mental or whatever it was?   
COACH BEAMER:   Yeah, yeah, I think Cody will be fine.  
   
 Q.   What is the toughest part about coming back after this tight turn around?   A lot of times when you've had these Thursday night games in the past, you've had that bye week right before.   Instead you have a Saturday game that goes to triple overtime and now you're going on the road in just a couple of days?   
COACH BEAMER:   Well, as you can imagine, your whole week is just speeded up.   Trying to cover a lot of things in a short period of time.   Then you throw on top of that a completely different offense.   If you're playing an offense similar to Marshall, then there is carryover.   But now you're playing a completely different offense and a different offense than you won't see it again this year.   
So you put all those things together and things are moving fast around here.   We're trying to practice fast, learn fast, look at film fast, the whole deal.   Fast week.  
   
 Q.   What makes this option offense so difficult to prepare for?   
COACH BEAMER:   Well, it's different, number one.   I think if you face it every week you certainly become better at it and become more experienced with it.   But once you've faced it one time and trying to get your players to adjust to that then the other thing, the options at the line of scrimmage.   There is a difference there than option and three yards or four yards off the line of scrimmage.   
You know, the first part of the option the dive part hits right there at the line of scrimmage.   So you've got to be exact on your responsibilities.  
   
 Q.   What's it like coaching in this game just knowing history of how important it's been to the Coastal Division race?   
COACH BEAMER:   Well, we don't know about this year.   It's early in the year.   You don't know how good we are.   How good they are.   How many games they're going to win.   How many games we're going to win.   But it's certainly being on national TV on Thursday night that's different for your kids.   So I know they'll come out and play extremely hard and hopefully we can well.  
   
 Q.   So because it's earlier in the year, it doesn't feel as much of a sense of urgency?   
COACH BEAMER:   I think it's a sense of urgency.   Any time you play in the conference and play your team on your side of the conference, there is certainly a sense of urgency.   But to say, hey, this game's going to determine our side, I don't think we can say that right now.  
   
 Q.   Frank Logan has had such good success against Georgia Tech, I think it's five touchdowns, no picks and running it effectively.   Even though you guys are in a new offense, did you go back and show him any of that tape and how he's done against Georgia Tech in the past?   
COACH BEAMER:   Well, certainly he would have seen that.   But, again, I think it helps to see successful situations.   But this is a new defensive coordinator.   Defense is ranked 11th, I think, in total defense in the country, given up very few points.   It's a different situation this year and what we've got to be concerned about is how we play against them this time around.  
   
 Q.   He remarked on Monday that he thought it was time to open up the offense a little bit.   Do you concur?   
COACH BEAMER:   Well, I think we've studied it quite a bit, we've talked about it quite a bit and hopefully we'll be more consistent here tomorrow night.   
I will say this, this week you've got to really depend on your scout teams.   Our guys, T.J. Shaw on offense has been the quarterback and Corey Marshall and Andrew Motuapuaka is on defense, and Corey, of course, is red‑shirting.   But, boy, those two guys have been kind of the leaders.   They're giving us great looks.   You don't get as many reps as you normally get.   To get good reps and fast speed reps I've got to commend my scout team for doing a great job this week.   
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT