ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
April 25, 2013
Frank Beamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		  THE MODERATOR:   We're joined by Virginia Tech head coach Frank Beamer. 
Coach, just a brief opening statement, recap of spring practice, then we'll go to questions. 
COACH BEAMER:   All right.   Number one, I thought we had an August spring practice.   I thought every practice was a good practice.   The spring game had its positives.   I think it has some things that need to get better.   You'd like to identify them.   The good thing is we've got some time here and there's not a limit on how much a guy can get in the weight room, lift, or how much he does on his own here during the summer. 
Hopefully we'll have several players that won't be the same player that they were last Saturday.   Hopefully they'll be better in some areas. 
I thought having over 40,000 people, that's a fair estimate, was a great way to end our spring.   I like getting the kids out there in a game‑like situation, see them perform.   I just think sometimes you find out something about guys in game situations, that kind of atmosphere, that sometimes every day in practice it may not be there.   Some guys just have a knack for stepping it up. 
This being the start of the draft, one thing that just came up here recently, since 2001, we are eighth on the list for most players drafted into the NFL.   That's certainly a stat that we're proud of.   I think it goes back to we feel great about developing players.   From a strength and conditioning standpoint, from a coaching standpoint, from an effort and knowing what hard work is, knowing what it takes to be successful, I think a lot of the NFL teams like the guy that comes out of Virginia Tech.   I'm very, very proud of the fact that we're eighth on that list since 2001.   That's quite a bit of time back. 
I'd ask for any questions now. 

Q.   Frank, coming out of spring, was there anything that didn't get done with all of the new coaches, anything you go into the fall most curious about? 
COACH BEAMER:   Oh, Bud and Scott were talking about our last meeting getting ready for spring practice, about how we would like to have a few more practices to get some more things done.   I think there's always things there. 
Overall I thought we got a lot done.   I thought we got great effort, great enthusiasm every practice.   We got as much out of it as we possibly could.   Now I think we've identified what guys need to do. 
This week we spent talking personnel on Monday with Mike Gentry and our whole staff, everyone connected, training staff.   Tuesday we spent meeting with players, telling them exactly where they stand on our football team, what they need to do to improve. 
I think we got a good evaluation during spring and I think we know where we need to get better. 

Q.   What came out of that personnel meeting in terms of the runningback pecking order and starting offensive line?   Who did you tell was out front?
COACH BEAMER:   I think this:   Trey Edmunds has a chance to be right in the mix.   I think he is.   There's no question he's in the mix.   We'll see where Michael Holmes situation goes.   I think there's probably two sides to that.   I think that's to be decided where that is. 
But then I think Mangus and Coleman in certain packages, and Tony Gregory, when he gets back, I think use him in certain roles. 
But right now I think certainly the top three as far as tailbacks are Edmunds, Holmes and Coleman. 

Q.   Frank, after the game Saturday, Josh Stanford was saying he knew at least two of Logan's three interceptions were because receivers didn't run precise routes, and even Logan said he thought the ball was coming out of his hands really well.   As you went back and evaluated tape Saturday, was that the case?   Might Logan's performance have been better than met the naked eye?
COACH BEAMER:   Yeah, I think Logan's statements, after you go back and look at the video, were really right on.   I think one play I thought he overthrew the ball, but our receiver doesn't come off the ball full tilt.   If he had of, I think he would have been in position to catch the ball.   A couple times, you question whether the decision was right. 
Logan's comments I think after the game are right.   He's made improvement.   He feels good about it.   The ball is coming out of his hands faster, good velocity on the ball.   I know he's going to work hard all summer, throw a lot of balls to these receivers who need to catch a lot of balls. 
Then I think the next thing, we got a machine out here that will throw the ball to them.   One way or the other, I think we got a situation where we got guys that need to catch a bunch of balls. 

Q.   Coach, a scheduling question for you.   The conference and Notre Dame announced the rotation in the coming years.   What does it mean for the ACC to play a program like Notre Dame consistently here over the next number of years? 
COACH BEAMER:   Well, I just was reading this morning that the strength of schedule is going to be very much a part of who's chosen to play for the national championship.   Certainly adding Notre Dame to the league, an opportunity to play that program, adds to the strength of the schedule. 
And I think just overall what's happened here in the last couple weeks, the ACC is solid.   Always thought it was.   But I think what everyone has agreed to here in the last week or so, I think it's full speed ahead now. 
We've got a great league.   We lead in every academic category as a league.   Then we got some big ballgames coming up this fall.   We need to win our share of those big ballgames. 
But I do think the league's getting better.   I think we have an opportunity to win some of those ball games.   So that's to me what's important right now. 

Q.   You mentioned Michael Holmes.   How has his situation affected the team internally?
COACH BEAMER:   Well, I don't think it's affected it that way.   We really haven't met as a team since Saturday after the spring game.   But you certainly don't get yourself put in those situations.   I think we need to let it play out.   I think there's definitely two sides to the story on this one. 

Q.   Are you even allowed to have contact with him?
COACH BEAMER:   No.   With the way the thing is set up here, he's not involved with the football program at all. 

Q.   Did you see enough progress out of those young cornerbacks this spring to make you any more comfortable if you don't get Exum back in time for that opener?
COACH BEAMER:   Yeah, I think Facyson, a true freshman that came in, you have to feel good about his upside.   Greene, I thought he had a tremendous spring, made a big play in the spring game.   Then between Manning and Rolly, who has terrific ability, and Tookes came along the last few practices, showed improvement.   And Manning had a good spring. 
Yeah, I think one thing you want to feel better about is not only the starters but the depth in our secondary.   I think particularly with Greene and Facyson, we helped in that area. 
Then Antone, I know he's going to work at it.   He's such a strong guy before he got hurt, and that usually helps.   I know he'll be grinding to be ready for Alabama. 

Q.   Frank, did you see enough out of Tariq Edwards to make you feel comfortable he's all the way back from that leg injury?
COACH BEAMER:   Yeah, I think he's certainly well on his way back.   I think he feels much better about it right now.   He did some things that looked like the old Tariq.   That's certainly a key, because he was playing at such a high level when he got hurt.   I think that's a big factor in our team. 
Then another one, Zack McCray, how he develops at tight end, we think he's got a great future there.   A lot of work this summer.   But we need probably more production there at the tight end position, between Malleck and McCray, I really feel like that's two talented guys to get it going. 
THE MODERATOR:   Coach, thanks for being with us. 
COACH BEAMER:   Thank you. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT