ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 21, 2012
Frank Beamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		  COACH BEAMER:   I think we're playing a very talented football team this weekend.   I think they play very tough.   I think the offensive line has always been a strength.   I think it is this year.   I think they've got some play makers there and wide receivers and running backs.   Tight ends are playing very well for them, and two quarterbacks are playing well.   Simms 56% completion and Rocco 62, I believe it is.   Both of them have more touchdowns than interceptions. 
On defense, they get after you.   They attack and get after you, so we know what kind of game it's going to be.   Trying to get bowl eligible is very important to us.   The only game that really matters right now is the one this year and we've got to get ready to play a really good football game.

Q.   Before the year there was so much hype around your defense, sort of preseason pub, and they've played so well the last few weeks.   Are they living up to those expectations now? 
COACH BEAMER:   Well, I think we're playing better.   I think it all starts with keeping our secondary healthy.   When we can cover some receivers and get them to hold the ball a little bit, that helps the pass rush.   So I think we're going to be tested Saturday.   I think this is a very good offense.   They do a lot of things and a lot of personnel, and we're going to be tested here Saturday.

Q.   You seem more successful since you‑‑ I don't want to say simplified‑‑ but you went back to the base package and more of a nickel look.   What impact has that had? 
COACH BEAMER:   Well, I do think knowing what to do is the most important thing.   Don't let your mind tie up your feet.   I think we've been playing fast and knowing what to do certainly helps that.

Q.   It's so unusual having no players in your program, and a lot of your fans are not used to seeing you in this situation coming down to this game which you need for bowl eligibility.   I wonder how everybody's reacting to that?   How do you find the position that you find yourself in? 
COACH BEAMER:   I do think our fans are, like we are, disappointed in the results of some games.   But not looking back, looking forward, looking to the future.   There is nothing we can do about the games that we lost.   We had a great crowd here for Florida State, just a tremendous crowd with great enthusiasm.   I thought our kids played really hard last week against Boston College for the most part, and they even got down in that game, but they hung in there and kept battling. 
So I think that's where our program is.   We've had a couple of tough losses.   We need to play better.   But the only thing that we can affect right now is how we prepare and play against Virginia.   That's where our thoughts are, and I think that's what our fans feel like.   Hey, let's get in here and have a great atmosphere Saturday and try to get bowl eligible.

Q.   Do you get the sense that your players have that sense of urgency, not just because you're playing your in‑state rival, but because of what's at stake? 
COACH BEAMER:   Yeah, I think we practiced well this week, but it's how we play on Saturday that's the only thing that matters.   That is the only game in this series that matters right now is the one coming up Saturday.

Q.   This is a rivalry weekend and a lot of rivalry games.   Some rivalries home field makes a big difference, some it doesn't.   I know you've dominated this rivalry.   But do you see a significant difference when you get to play at home as opposed to Charlottesville? 
COACH BEAMER:   Well, I think when you play a rival game, it has less importance.   I think both sides know what's at stake and both of us from here in the state and you know we always like to play at Lane Stadium.   Don't get me wrong.   But I think when you put a rival game in there, it probably has a little more significance as far as the outcome of the game.

Q.   Maybe it's a one‑year fluke, but looking at your performances this year, you've been significantly better at home than on the road.   Is it just a one‑year fluke?   Is there a reason for that? 
COACH BEAMER:   Well, I think so.   The way things went, and certainly we've played better at home, generally speaking.   We always like playing in Lane Stadium in front of our fans.   They get into it, and I appreciate that.





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT