ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 19, 2012
Frank Beamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


  MIKE FINN:   We now welcome Virginia Tech head coach Frank Beamer.   We'll bring on coach, ask for an opening statement, go to questions.   
COACH BEAMER:   I'm really impressed with this football team.   Very well‑coached, play hard.   They got experience.   Offensively, defensively, up front, they're good.   Back end, they're fast.   They really play well on the special teams.   This is a really good, well‑coached football team that's coming in here Saturday.   We're going to have to get ready to play a really good football game.   
Questions.   
   
 Q.   I wanted to ask about left guard.   What are you preparing to do in David's place?   Who do you have practicing there and will they rotate?  
COACH BEAMER:   Well, we got Arkema working in there, Via working over there also.   Between those two, they'll take care of that position.  
   
 Q.   How confident are you in those two guys?  
COACH BEAMER:   You know what, I think they're going to be okay.   Arkema is a tough kid.   Hasn't played very much.   Via, he knows all the positions, and he's a valuable guy to us.   
   
 Q.   Last week Bruce had to go home for the family situation.   When did he leave you guys and when did he know he would be back for the Pittsburgh game?  
COACH BEAMER:   He left I believe on Thursday night and he flew up to Pittsburgh on Friday.   
   
 Q.   Frank, has the youth and inexperience on the offense limited at all what you can do with the playbook?  
COACH BEAMER:   It hasn't helped.   There's no question that when you're playing new freshmen tailbacks, four new starters on the offensive line, new starter at tight end, that affects your play.   
But, again, what we need to do is become a more consistent play‑after‑play offense.   That's what we're striving for.   
   
 Q.   When you watched the film, did it look to you like Logan is trying too hard to compensate or carry the load for the group right now?   Is he forcing some things because of that?  
COACH BEAMER:   No.   I think Logan is going to be just fine.   He has a couple throws he'd like to have back.   But we got to protect a little bit better, run the right routes.   It's a combination of things that have caused us to be inconsistent.   
But I visited with Logan yesterday, have every confidence that he's going to be fine.   
   
 Q.   Coach, it looks like your team and Bowling Green are kind of in a similar situation, coming off a disappointing loss.   Will you talk a little bit about how your kids have reacted to that.   
COACH BEAMER:   Well, it was disappointing.   But we lost to a team that played very well, and they lost to a team that played very well.   Both of us had a loss last week.   I know both of us are going to be ready to play this week.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk a little bit about mood and tenor on the practice field.   Tougher?   Harder?   Your thoughts on it.   
COACH BEAMER:   Well, we went back to work.   I'm sure they did the same thing.   That's the only thing to do.   This game, there's disappointments.   You got to get back to work and get things corrected.   
   
 Q.   You said you met with Logan.   Was that a routine meeting or did you want to check in with him?  
COACH BEAMER:   No, I passed him, we sat down for a couple minutes and talked.   
   
 Q.   Remember last year, a lot of people came down on him really hard, then he had that terrific game against Miami.   All of a sudden the tide turned.   Is that a similar situation?  
COACH BEAMER:   Like I say, I think Logan is fine.   He knows what he's doing.   We have to make sure everybody else knows what they're doing.   We get that done, we'll move the football.   
MIKE FINN:   Coach, thanks for being with us.   Good luck this week and we'll talk to you next Wednesday.   
COACH BEAMER:   Thanks.   
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT