ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 12, 2012
Frank Beamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


  COACH BEAMER:   I feel as if Pittsburgh is improving football team.   I think they played a lot better in their second ballgame than their first.   I think it's to be expected.   I think with a new staff and new way of doing things, there is an adjustment period.   They're going through that a little bit.   I really think they have good players, tough guys. 
From our past experience in the Big East, we know when you play Pittsburgh, you better be ready to play a very physical football game, and I think that's exactly what this has the makings of.   So we know we've got to be ready to play our best here come Saturday.

Q.   I want to ask you your reaction to the Notre Dame news?   What does it add to the conference to have them kind of in the mix for some of these football games? 
COACH BEAMER:   Yeah, I don't know all the details.   I understand they're going to have a conference here at 12:30.   But as a statement, I think it's great for the ACC and great for Notre Dame.   I think both of us benefit.   So I look forward to finding out the details of it.

Q.   One of the things that they'll factor into the bowl deals, in other words, they won't be eligible for your BCS as they would be for other bowl games.   I'm curious, is that a concern that they'll be taking away a bowl spot from one of you guys? 
COACH BEAMER:   I would think other bowls may be interested in joining the ACC team.   With the idea that they could get Notre Dame.   So, you know, I think that's all good.   I think it helps us with the bowls in every way.

Q.   Is it at all disappointing that they join but don't join all the way in football?   Does that kind of feel like living together without getting married? 
COACH BEAMER:   I think the fact that they're going to play five teams and rotate around is okay.   Again, I don't know the details.   I'm interested in finding out the details before I comment much more.

Q.   If I can take you back a couple weeks, I was curious about your thoughts about Georgia Tech's defense.   I'm curious if they look any better this year in the system? 
COACH BEAMER:   Yeah, they've got some variables going on there and different looks and people coming from different places.   I think they're very athletic, certainly well‑coached.   I thought they played really well.

Q.   One thing that Coach Groh has said a few times is in that third year players really begin to understand and react more quickly.   Is that something you saw at all?
COACH BEAMER:   Yeah, I think that's true.   Again, I think going to the different fronts that adds to it.   So I think they're a good defense.

Q.   I'm wondering, I know this is a non‑conference game, but the fact that they're going to be an ACC member next year, has any kind of dimension at all been added to this game? 
COACH BEAMER:   Well, it's just one that having the history with Pittsburgh you know how tough they play, and I think their offense and defense right now is exactly that.   Good fly around and good toughness.   Like I said earlier, they're playing better every week.   I think their tailback's getting better every week, and they're certainly a concern for us.

Q.   Normally you schedule a game like this as an home at home.   Are they scheduled to come in next year?   Is that in limbo because of the conference? 
COACH BEAMER:   Yeah, that's my understanding.   They're scheduled to come here next year, so we'll work through that.

Q.   I was just wondering one other thing.   You guys are third in the nation in pass defense.   How much of that is a function of how well you're playing pass defense, and how much of it is a function of the offensive viewpoint maybe being run oriented? 
COACH BEAMER:   Well, I think any time you rank up there in pass defenses it's a two‑way street.   You've got to get a rush and you've got to play coverage on the back end and they go together.   You can't do one with without the other and be good.   So I think it's a total team effort along those lines.

Q.   Pitt likes to throw a little more than the first two teams you've played.   Is that a fair statement? 
COACH BEAMER:   Yeah, I think it's a fair statement.   I think they've got the ability to throw.   They've got big, tall wide receivers, the kid Sadler, and, you know, they've got a great tailback there.   So I think they've got the makings of a really good offense. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT