ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 5, 2012
Frank Beamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		  MIKE FINN:   We now welcome Virginia Tech's head coach Frank Beamer.   We'll ask for a brief opening statement, then go to questions. 
COACH BEAMER:   Certainly our game with Georgia Tech was a hard‑fought battle.   I mean, there's no other way to describe it.   We were fortunate to win.   They played great.   It was a tough loss, I know.   But we were fortunate to win the game ourselves. 
I think the thing you're most proud of is that we hung in there, we didn't panic when things weren't going exactly the right way.   The kids hung in there, kept playing hard, got some plays at the end to win the football game. 
We're pleased about that. 
We've put it behind us.   We're back out getting ready for Austin Peay.   I think it's an important week, you've heard me say.   You make your most improvement from the first week to the second week, particularly in college football.   The first week is the first time you play against other people.   It's not like you've had exhibition games to get your team better. 
I think this is a critical week for us.   It's a program that I'm very familiar with.   We were in the same league when I was at Murray State.   I have great respect for it.   Look forward to trying to get better as a football team this week. 
Questions. 

Q.   Frank, how did losing D.J. Coles there in that game affect you offensively?
COACH BEAMER:   Well, he's a guy that we really were hoping could come along and help us at that wide receiver position.   His knee was swollen yesterday.   We are just going to have to step up.   Our plan is I think Knowles needs to be more involved.   We got to get him more reps and make sure he's getting the right thing done in practice, get him into the game more.   Stanford, a true freshman, although he didn't play the other night, get him involved.   Asante has to keep coming along.   We have some guys that are going to have to step up a little bit with some of these other guys.

Q.   Do you expect to have D.J. against Austin Peay?
COACH BEAMER:   I don't know.   It's early in the week.   I think he's seeing a doctor today or tomorrow.   I'm not sure right now. 

Q.   Obviously you were not happy the last time you had a Monday/Saturday turnaround.   Has that experience helped you prepare for this one?   Are you doing anything differently to make that quick turnaround?
COACH BEAMER:   Well, we got the week well planned out, but it's hard, there's no question about it.   The way we prepare for a game, we do the same thing regardless what day the game is.   It's always Saturday to us.   We do the same thing every Friday, Thursday, Wednesday, Tuesday, Monday, regardless what day of the week it is.   So you're out of there. 
From a scheduling standpoint, sequence standpoint, it's just different.   But it is what it is.   We just have to have a great practice today and move forward.

Q.   Last time you were coming off a heart‑breaking loss.   This one you're coming off of an exhilarating win.   Does that make it any easier to bounce back on short rest?
COACH BEAMER:   Yeah, I think more important than that last time we played away from home, got in about 5:00 in the morning.   You have a hard time catching up on your sleep and your rest.   I think that's a more critical thing. 
At least we played at home.   We got our rest. 

Q.   When you looked at film, did Jack Tyler's game look as good on film as it was unfolding?
COACH BEAMER:   Sure did.   He played a great football game.   He read his keys great, made a lot of tackles.   What a fantastic ballgame he had.   He had a big impact on that great win for us. 

Q.   What are the things that make him stand out like that?
COACH BEAMER:   I think he's very instinctive.   I think he has a nose for the football.   He's a tough kid, smart kid.   He's not a huge size guy, but he brings a punch with him.   Like I say a lot, the game of football makes sense to him.   He usually ends up where the football is. 

Q.   Frank, the way that Corey Fuller was able to make that fourth‑down catch for you, talk about his development, kind of his play particularly toward the end of that game for you. 
COACH BEAMER:   Well, he was big in this ballgame.   We were really proud that he's here with us.   He was a track guy.   Started out at Kansas.   Came back in here.   He's really developing into a football guy. 
I think he's got great speed, but he's playing the game the way it needs to be played.   Had a pro scout ask about him the other day.   I'm really proud of the way he's come along.   Looks like to me he's going to have a bright future. 
MIKE FINN:   Frank, thanks for being with us.   We'll talk to you next Wednesday. 
COACH BEAMER:   Thank you. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT