ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 22, 2011
Frank Beamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		  FRANK BEAMER:   Yeah, no question, huge game here in the state.   I think it's great for the state of Virginia that its two programs are playing here for championships here in November.   I've always talked about if we could keep the best players in the state here in this state that both programs could be successful, and I think that's an example of that.   Big game coming up Saturday. 
Questions? 

Q.   Just looking on film, what's the biggest difference you see in Virginia this year versus previous seasons?   What is it that's made them so much more successful? 
FRANK BEAMER:   Well, I think their defense is a year older, playing very strong, very physical up front, very well.   I think their quarterback Rocco has given them excellent play, consistent play, and that allows them to be consistent on offense.   I think they're, like most Virginia teams, very good on the offensive line.   I think they've added some skills at the wide receiver position, and then the running backs, they're getting excellent production from three guys back there, Jones, Parks and Richardson. 
They're a good football team.   They're for real.   They're good, and they're playing really well and playing with a lot of confidence, as they should.   They've done a good job up there. 

Q.   The way the BCS standings are and your position right now, there's at least an outside chance if you win this week, win next week, you could get up to the top.   Has that been discussed at all that your goals might even extend beyond the Conference Championship if everything goes‑‑
FRANK BEAMER:   We talk about what's possible, but I think what's really important is that you really concentrate on what you can control, and the only thing we can control right now as far as BCS and anything else goes is how we prepare this week to play Virginia.   You know, we've got that‑‑ that's where we're going to‑‑ that's what we're going to be thinking about is our preparation for Virginia. 

Q.   This obviously is one of your biggest games annually, but the fact that there's much more at stake at this game, how does that add an extra layer of emphasis or whatever you want to call it, just excitement and atmosphere and the whole deal with the stakes of this game? 
FRANK BEAMER:   Yeah, I think this game always is critical for people in this state.   You know, I think just about everybody in this state, you're either a Tech fan or a Virginia fan, one way or the other.   And then when you put that the winners of the Coastal Championship have the right to go and play for the ACC Championship, that just adds to it.   A big day in the state of Virginia here Saturday. 

Q.   Where do you see the‑‑ from the beginning of the season up to this point, the biggest stride that your team has made? 
FRANK BEAMER:   Oh, I think we‑‑ I think our quarterback continues to improve.   I think Logan continues to be a great leader for us, and as he's improved, I really think our offense as a team has improved.   I think we've balanced in the way we can throw the ball and can run the ball. 
Defensively we've kind of hung in there.   We've had some tough injuries over there on the defensive side, but we've battled.   We haven't always been pretty over there, but we battle.   So I think‑‑ I'm proud of where our football team is.   I think they have an opportunity here in November to win a Coastal Championship.   With what's taken place within our football team and starting out with a new quarterback and so forth, I'm pleased where we are. 

Q.   When your defense isn't beaten up and has lost as many players as it has, do you teach forcing turnovers and stripping the ball more often or with a greater sense of urgency in the knowledge that so many players, starters are out, or does that change? 
FRANK BEAMER:   No, I just think that's part of the way you play.   You know, you start from day one, I think, with that thought process, and turnovers is a big, big part of the game.   I think that's just in us from the very beginning. 

Q.   On another note, your senior receiving tandem of Boykin and Coale have become the most prolific group of teammates in terms of reception yardage in ACC history.   Can you explain how one plays off the other and how they work well as a group? 
FRANK BEAMER:   Well, you know, there's two guys that's been very productive, meant a lot to our success here at Virginia Tech.   But the thing I like about them is they're great people, excellent character guys, never a problem, want what's best for the football team.   I mean, they're just perfect for your football team.   A lot of times guys get out there and start worrying about who's getting the ball and so forth, and that's never been an issue with these two guys.   They just, again, are not only great football players but great people, and proud to have had them in our football program. 

Q.   Your comments on your talented tailback there, David Wilson, seems like he's been fumbling recently.   Have you addressed that, and your thoughts on that? 
FRANK BEAMER:   Well, I think, number one, he's not a fumble guy.   I think you've got to continue to talk about the fundamentals about the carrying the ball, but I think the other side about him is he runs with such effort, and sometimes he gets in odd positions and so forth.   You know, I think you're always fighting for the extra yard, that type of thing. 
But really, I think the last couple fumbles have come from when he doesn't see the contact.   I mean, it's not where he's thinking about getting hit.   So I mean, those are just going to happen.   I don't think it's a fundamental thing about him carrying the ball, I think it's just one of those things that just kind of happens. 
I'm not concerned about David Wilson fumbling.   I think his production, that's what you really look at. 

Q.   In this game obviously there's always a lot of overlap with the players.   Did you guys recruit Michael Rocco, and also, what do you think about his progress over the course of the season?   It's like he's not doing anything spectacular but he's playing good, clean football. 
FRANK BEAMER:   Yeah, we were well aware of him coming out of high school, and he's just done a tremendous job for Virginia.   He's steady, he's just what you think about from a coach's son.   He understands the game, and he knows what it takes to win, and he plays that way.   I think he's been‑‑ I'll tell you this:   I think he's been the key figure in these wins down the stretch here.   The way he's taken care of the ball and led that football team, I think he's been key. 

Q.   Did you guys offer him or invite him as a preferred walk‑on or any of that?
FRANK BEAMER:   You know, we looked at him a lot.   I'd have to think back, but I don't think we offered.   We liked him, there's no question about that.   But I forget how the situation was at quarterback when he was coming through.   We thought he'd be just exactly what he is:   Very solid, very much in control, just knows the football game, plays like he knows the football game, and done a great job for Virginia. 

Q.   You rebuilt a program there in Blacksburg, so I'm wondering if you're looking at what Mike London has done and his staff have done in Charlottesville.   They are rebuilding a program and have done a pretty good job of getting it going in the second year.   What's your impressions of how they've done that, what they've done, and are they on the right track? 
FRANK BEAMER:   Yeah, I think, again, it all starts with your quarterback, and I think Rocco has really meant a lot to that football team.   But they've got good players around him.   You look at the wide receiving group and offensive line and look at them defensively up front and so forth, and they've got good players.   I don't think there's any question they've done a good coaching job with these guys.   They've done‑‑ they do it the right way.   My congratulations to them.   They've done a nice job. 

Q.   How hard is it to do that, and particularly is it difficult to do it quickly now, or is it easier to do it now if you get the right freshmen and change attitudes? 
FRANK BEAMER:   You know, I think it's‑‑ it kind of all gets back‑‑ they've done a good job of coaching.   That should be said first.   But again, I think you've got to have that quarterback.   I'm a big guy, and if you've got a quarterback, you've got a chance.   I think they've got a quarterback that gives them a chance. 
And then they're playing well around him.   I mean, defensively you look at their stats, they're right up there high in the ACC and high nationally, and then they've got some people on offense that are weapons.   They can get the ball down the field.   So between a good quarterback, good players and good coaching, I think that's been their turnaround. 

Q.   Are you happy this game means so much?
FRANK BEAMER:   Well, I think for the two teams in the state of Virginia, to be playing for the Coastal Championship, I think it's good for the state.   And as I opened up saying, I've always believed that if Virginia and us did a good job of keeping in‑state players here in state, that both of us could have success.   And I think this game is a perfect example of that. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT