ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 16, 2011
Frank Beamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


   COACH BEAMER: Another big ballgame here in November. A team that's certainly very capable. They have our full attention. I think when you look at them they get your attention and you need to get ready to play a great game. Questions?   
  
  Q. We're working on a project on how pollsters vote and what they prioritize. I don't want any specifics, but I know you vote in the coaches poll. How do you balance a particularly bad loss against a particularly good win? Do you give more weight to one or how do you try to balance those out?   
 COACH BEAMER: No, I think you look at every one on their own. Try to figure out where that team deserves to go. I think a bad loss affects your thinking certainly, and a great win affects your thinking. It's a balance. To say one is more important than the other, I think you take them all. At least that's the way I try to do it. Who did you beat? Was it a good team? Who do you lose to and was it a bad team or whatever. That's the way I try to do it.  
  
  Q. The offense had another good day against Georgia Tech. Has it been as consistently good as you'd like to see it this year?   
 COACH BEAMER: I think we're getting closer. Really when our quarterback is playing well, and of course he played well in the last outing, I think it allows us to be a good running team and be a good throwing football team. That's what we've always strived for is to be able to do both.   
 I think that's what the really good teams do. They can run it, and they can throw it. Because there are times you've got to run it, and there are times you've got to throw it. So I think we're getting closer to that. As long as Logan plays well, we'll keep going in that direction, and we have every belief that he will continue to play well.  
  
  Q. Where do you see him making the biggest strides from week to week?   
 COACH BEAMER: I think just knowledge. It's kind of what you thought would happen. He's a real smart guy. He's competitive. He doesn't get rattled. I said in the beginning I think he'll get better every quarter, and I think probably he has. He knows more where to go with the ball. He's checking off for us at the line quite a bit. He's good at that. I think he gets a little bit better all the time.  
  
  Q. Given the competitiveness of today's college football with recruiting and exposure and what not, is it possible to maintain a good relationship with another head coach in your league that's a rival or do you have to keep a distance with that relationship these days?   
 COACH BEAMER: No, I think there is respect for the other coaches in the league. Some of them you may be closer to than others. But competition is one thing, but respecting your opponent and respecting how they run their programs, I think that's another. I think true friendships exist in this league and probably in most leagues.  
  
  Q. Is it hard when you play a friend? Do you prefer not to play a friend if you have a choice?   
 COACH BEAMER: Yeah, I think everybody understands it's business. But I think guys that you've been close to over the years, one is going to be happy, and one is going to be sad. You know, good friends, that's kind of a tough situation.  
  
  Q. Coach Beamer, you've been around this game a long time. Bud Foster and your defense with all of the injuries and everything they've encountered, to this point is this one of the better jobs that your defensive staff has done with everything they've had to encounter?   
 COACH BEAMER: Yeah, I think so. When you lose Bruce Taylor, your leading tackler, and two whip guys, not one, but two, I think they've probably handled it as well as you possibly could. The players keep playing hard and make some plays. But I do think probably Bud and his guys have done a tremendous job there, there is no question about it.  
  
  Q. That defense, I was looking at Carolina's offensive line. They're huge. I know Carolina has a lot of athletes and a lot of talent. How concerned are you about this match-up between that offense and the defense that's been banged up all year?   
 COACH BEAMER: Yeah, there is no question. They can mash you they've got good schemes and they've got good players. So going into it, that is a concern is can we hold up?   
  
  Q. The Virginia Tech fans will get their final look in Lane Stadium with Jarrett Boykin and Danny Coale who are now your all time top two receivers. Those guys and your seniors, any comments on their final home game there for you?   
 COACH BEAMER: Well, it's just a group that could become the winningest senior group ever at Virginia Tech. And the two that you mentioned go a long ways towards providing a lot of those wins. When you think about Jarrett and Danny, and the plays they've made and how consistent, steady and solid they've been, those are two guys we're going to miss as well as a lot of these seniors. A lot of them have put a lot of hard work into this program and helped us get a lot of good results.  
  
  Q. How nice is it to have the short yardage option of just having your quarterback plow ahead four or five yards on a quarterback sneak?   
 COACH BEAMER: Well, he's a big old guy and strong and tough. You know it really once he picked up down there at Georgia Tech, I don't know three, four, five all together, then he got stopped one time. But it certainly gets short yardage, you kind of feel like you've got a shot to get it with him in there. Then if he's not quarterback sneaking anymore, that's probably a surprise to the defense. So you've probably got some options.  
  
  Q. Along the lines of him being hard to take down. Obviously he took that shot to the head against Georgia Tech. It's a good thing in the sense that he's hard to bring down. Are you ever concerned that because he can have two or three guys draped on him that he might take some additional punishment particularly up around the head area the same way a guy like Roethlisberger does for Pittsburgh?   
 COACH BEAMER: Well, we talked about don't take unnecessary hits. But I think that's the way he plays the game. He's a tough guy. He can -- he's got enough speed that he can run away from you, but he don't mind trying to run over you either.   
 I don't know that you change a guy how he plays the game all that much. I just think there are certain times probably that, hey, is it worth taking a shot here? But I enjoy sitting over there and watching him. I like his toughness, I tell you that.   
   
    
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT