ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 9, 2011
Frank Beamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		   FRANK BEAMER: Seems like when we play Georgia Tech it's always a big ballgame, and certainly this one is. They played extremely well in their last ballgame, played extremely well for most of the year, really, and we know it's going to take a great effort to go in there and beat a really good football team. We've got to play extremely well, and we understand that. When you play Georgia Tech, you're playing a physical team that gets after you. They're well coached all the way around, and got to play a great ballgame. 

 Q. Your old friend Joe Paterno is retiring after the season. I just wanted to get a reaction and your thoughts right now. 
 FRANK BEAMER: Oh, you know, my thoughts, when you know Joe, he's a great coach and a great person, charming, very thoughtful guy and has run a great program for a lot of years. You know, that would be my thoughts about him.

 Q. Especially right now why do you think the program has operated at such a high level? They've got the best record in the Big Ten. 
 FRANK BEAMER: Yeah, well, I'll tell you this: I think Joe has just got a unique way about him. I think he's got a lot of football sense, but I think he's got a lot of common sense, too. You know, he's run his program that way for a number of years. 

 Q. I wanted to ask you about your rushing defense which Mike just told us is fifth in the nation. How applicable is that to the kind of rushing offense that Georgia Tech runs? Does it present a different kind of challenge than obviously the normal spread or the I-formation stuff?
 FRANK BEAMER: Well, yeah, there's no question it's different than what you normally face. You're doing techniques that -- you work against techniques that you don't normally face week in and week out. So that -- and it's just -- I think trying to get your kids ready to play against that is something that's very much different. You know, there's just not enough practice time. 
 And then I think the second thing, and something that's hurt us, is I think the more times kids play against us, the better they get. And Antoine Hopkins played a bunch of plays last year and Bruce Taylor played a bunch of plays last year and Gouveia-Winslow played a bunch of plays last year, and they're not going to be in the ballgame, so you miss that factor, too. I think new guys playing them for the first time, it's different, takes you a while to get adjusted to it.
 Yeah, they earn those rushing yards, and they know what they're doing. They know exactly what they're doing with it and done it for a long time, and it's unique and tough to get ready for in a week's time. 

 Q. The fact you had a couple of extra days, were you able to put that time to use?
 FRANK BEAMER: Yeah, absolutely. I think that came at a good time, both mentally and physically to rest a little bit, but certainly to spend a couple extra days on a unique offense. 

 Q. Since the beginning of the season and now you've got nine games under your belt, Logan Thomas has nine under his belt, what are the ways you've seen him improve? What are the areas that it's really showed up with him?
 FRANK BEAMER: Well, there's just nothing like experience. I think as he's gone along, he's learned. He's a guy that's very smart. He understands the game. And I think as he's gone along he understands where to go with the ball, and as he does that I think he becomes more accurate throwing. You're a little late and all of a sudden you're a little less accurate. I think that's kind of the deal is just getting out there and experiencing things and knowing where to go with the ball. And he does a great job as far as getting us in and out of plays and being very much in control. 
 You know, I've been really impressed with -- you're not going to rattle the guy. He knows what's going on, and he's a great leader for our football team. 

 Q. Earlier in the season he had some shaky moments, but those didn't seem to have thrown him off stride at all. 
 FRANK BEAMER: No, I think he learns from them. I think he understands that some things are going to happen fast, but I think I've heard him say that things have slowed down for him as the season has gone along. 

 Q. Just out of curiosity, do you have any idea how far he can actually throw the football? 
 FRANK BEAMER: I've seen him throw it a long ways out here. I'm not sure of the exact distance, but I think receivers would have a hard time outrunning him, outrunning his throw. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT