ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 2, 2011
Frank Beamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


   THE MODERATOR: We welcome Coach Frank Beamer. 
 COACH BEAMER: It's good to get a little time off here. We start back our preparation for Georgia Tech here today and then we'll practice tomorrow and the next day, and then get ready for the week there on Saturday. Getting ready for a good football claim. Played a great football game against Clemson. 
 We know what we have got in front of us here, so just got to make a great preparation and go play. 

 Q. Sorry to ask about another team's player, but I'm doing a story on Matt Daniels. Can you talk about his ability as both a run defender and this year it seems like he's improved his coverage skills. 
 COACH BEAMER: Yeah, I think he's an excellent player, kind of all over the field, tough, athletic, and everything you want. And a good football player. 

 Q. They play that defense with five, six defensive backs and move him around a lot. He seems to be the key to that, is that what you saw? 
 COACH BEAMER: Yeah, I mean, he's definitely a guy you need to account for. You need to know where he is. He'll get you. And you know, certainly I think really plays well for them. 

 Q. Kind of a stupid question but I figured the bye week would be a good week to ask it. You've used six different uniform combinations this year. Wonder what your input into it is and how you come into that decision?
 COACH BEAMER: Not much, John Palon (ph) gets with our seniors and they work out what uniform we are going to wear that week. Kids like it. I think they like the fact that it's different, things are different and different combinations.
 As long as they keep playing hard, they can wear whatever they want. 

 Q. I think I've heard in the past that some coaches have said that they switch up jerseys, somebody would switch on the TV and not recognize the team on the TV right away. Do you ever have that fear that people might not notice Virginia Tech? 
 COACH BEAMER: Not really. I think the fact that there's change, there's real excitement and real interest in that. I think that's kind of the important thing. 

 Q. It seems like in college football these day, it's always one little slip-up and the sky is falling mentality. You even mentioned it after the Clemson game a month ago, but now a month later, you guys have kind of maybe found your footing a little bit, and are confident about what's ahead. I mean, was there any process on your part to get your guys back on track and kind of guided towards the position they are right now? 
 COACH BEAMER: You know, I think as you go through a football season, usually you are going to have some crisis somewhere. And not many times you go through a season you don't have a crisis. 
 And I think when you do, you'd better have good people, good kids, good character, and if you do, if people care about each other, and respect each other, then I think you can get through the crisis. 
 And that's what I think we have got here at Virginia Tech. We have got good kids with good character, respect each other, care about each other and care about the program and as a result, when we have a tough time, we can get through it. 

 Q. Got to ask, too, I'm based in Columbia, South Carolina; what's it like coaching with Shane? 
 COACH BEAMER: It's been great. Having those two little girls around has been really good. 
 But, you know, the thing I think, in this business, having someone here to coach is one thing but you'd better have good coaches. Shane is a good coach. He works at it and very detailed and I think he does a good job. 

 Q. David Wilson I think is leading the nation in total yards; can you address the durability and the wear and tear that being the primary back takes on a guy, and you know, again, how is he doing?
 COACH BEAMER: Yeah, you know, he runs us so much, so much energy, so much effort. Every run is that way. It's not like he runs hard one time and takes the next one off. Every, every run is all-out. 
 But that's kind of his personality think. He's just an all-out person. And you know, I think he's a very talented guy, strong and fast and that's a pretty good combination to have at running back. 

 Q. It does seem like you lighten his load in the return game a little bit. Is that because of the load he's carrying? 
 COACH BEAMER: He's still back there on kickoff returns. He's not getting every one of them. I think sometimes guys will get the ball away from them. But yeah, he's still back there in kickoff return.





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT