ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 26, 2011
Frank Beamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


   THE MODERATOR: We welcome Virginia Tech head coach Frank Beamer.   
 COACH BEAMER: For being a 5-2 football team, I think they are a good football team. They can really throw the football. I think they are very efficient and can run the football. I think they are an extremely well coached football team, and you know, I think we have got to get ready to play a heck of a football game down there.   
  
  Q. Can you discuss the two wide receivers that are on the verge of setting the ACC record for most receptions by a pair, Vernon and Varner; having both of them does that create special problems than just having one top receiver?  
 COACH BEAMER: I think so. One has got 47, Vernon, Varner, has 34 catches and they spread it around. I think that's the thing they do with their passing game. You know, the running backs have caught a bunch of balls as a group, I think 41 catches, and they have got a quarterback that can throw it and they know what they are doing with that for sure.   
 Then having flexibility; you know, that's what presents a lot of challenges for you.   
  
  Q. A year ago you shut them down more than anybody else; is that something that you can repeat?  
 COACH BEAMER: Well, they are a year older and like I said they do a great job of coaching their players, and I think the last year was last year, and got to get ready to play this version right here. What I see is a good football team, a really good football team.   
  
  Q. Since you've been so successful on the road since you've joined the ACC, what's the secret to being consistently good on the road?   
 COACH BEAMER: You know, I think mentally tough kids. I think trying, we preach about it all the time here, but it doesn't make any difference where we play, when we play, who we play, you play the same way.  
 And I think we have done a fairly good job of that. But it's tough. I think when you can do something like that, I think it shows some mental toughness from your kids and what we are trying to accomplish.   
  
  Q. Seems to me the players would take a great deal of satisfaction from going on to an opponent's field and playing well, quieting the crowd, taking the crowd out of it and just walking out with a win.   
 COACH BEAMER: Yeah, I think what you said there at the end, trying to walk out with a win, I think that's the important thing, and the more you win, the more important games you get and most of our games have been important. And this one is this week, it's very important for both of us, them and us. I think trying to walk out of there with a win somehow is what you really focus on.   
  
  Q. You got off to a slow start against Boston College and fell behind early against Wake Forest, any concern about those slow starts and anything you can pinpoint in both of them?  
 COACH BEAMER: Well, I credit those teams. I think they were well prepared for us and did some good things early.   
 I credit our players for continuing to play hard and our coaches for I think coming up with adjustments and changing things a little bit and getting back in the game. I think that's always a part of it. But I'm proud of what we were able to accomplish as the day went along.  
  
  Q. What does losing Bruce Taylor do to your defense and how have you guys been trying to adjust with all of the injuries you've had on that side of the ball?  
 COACH BEAMER: Well, you know, Bruce, losing him is tough, because not only the plays he made, but the type of leader he was and just what he meant to our whole football program.   
 But you know, fortunately we have got a guy that's had experience, Barquell Rivers, that is back from an injury, maybe not totally back; I don't think you ever get totally back from his type of injury. But he's back playing at a high level, and he's a kid that's well thought of, well respected, and has experience is; when he was playing before his injury, he was a terrific linebacker. I think he's close to being back to what he was. Not quite, but close. So we are very fortunate there.  
 And then we have another kid, Jack Tyler that has played some and I think he's got some good skill, so between those two, just got to -- next guy up, got to get in there and play. We had to do that with several positions on our defense this year, so it is time to do it again.   
  
  Q. On the same line, you guys, your defense obviously has not been perfect but seems like it's been pretty good considering all of the injuries you've had. How have you been able to stay afloat on that side of the ball with all of the injuries you've had this year?  
 COACH BEAMER: I think it goes back, I think our recruiting has been good over the last few years and we have got good players. They just have not played very much. And for example, Bonner, he jumped in there for Hosley and played very well for a guy that had not played very much. And Tweedy was doing well before he got hurt, replacing GW. And you know, and Dew, with more reps -- he's very talented, he just has not played very much. And when you don't get much practice time, it doesn't show up in a game.   
 So, you know, I think that's part of it. The two freshmen tackles, we have Marshall and Maddy, both of these guys are really good players. I mean, they are true freshmen, but they are really very talented players. So I think you kind of -- you have to go -- a guy has got to be a player and then when he gets into the game stepping in for somebody, just has to step it up and that's kind of what our guys have done.  
   
    
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT