ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 5, 2011
Frank Beamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		   THE MODERATOR: Joining us is Virginia Tech Head Coach Frank Beamer. 
 COACH BEAMER: As you can imagine, we have great respect are for Miami. Played them a lot of times. Every time I've played them, they have always had great players. They do this year. Harris, a veteran quarterback; when he's hot, he's really hot. I just think a talented football team, good football team, well-coached football team. Critical game for us and for them. So big game in Blacksburg this weekend. 

 Q. With a new staff and everything at Miami, how has their offense changed from what you're used to seeing?
 COACH BEAMER: I think it's kind of the same. I think that different staffs of course do things different and things within the program are different. But from what they have been running to what they run now, I don't think that's a big, big difference there. Maybe a little more balanced in the past, but they have got them balanced now, too. I think it's basically about the same. 

 Q. This team is a matchup of the two top running backs in the ACC. Talk to me about Lamar Miller and the threat he poses. 
 COACH BEAMER: Yeah, he's very good. I think he's a very patient runner. He's got all of the power. He's got speed. Just very, very impressive. 

 Q. This league has been mostly a defensive-dominant league since you've been in it, particularly your team. Do you see a dominant defense in the league this season? 
 COACH BEAMER: I haven't really looked at all of the different defenses. I know there's a lot of good defensive coaches in the league; so I think they are going to end up being probably as good as they can be.

 Q. Your team is fourth right now in total defense, but do you think your defense has been where it has recently, as one of the best in the country?
 COACH BEAMER: Yeah, I think we have played fairly well. We have had our moments. We lost some guys to injury that set us back a little bit, a couple at the same that set us back. But overall I think our defense has played fairly well. 

 Q. Going back to when you coached at Virginia Tech in the 90s, what's the rivalry like between you guys and Syracuse and you guys and Miami? It seems like the teams had some kind of similar rivalries. 
 COACH BEAMER: Yeah, I think so, probably because I think when you respect a program, it kind of brings out the best in you, and we have always respected Miami. We have always respected Syracuse. 
 But you know, lining up against Miami, they get your attention. They are a talented team and I think a good football team. 

 Q. And then what was it like going up against Donovan McNabb in the 90s and the games you played against him? 
 COACH BEAMER: Well, of course, he beat us in the last play out there in the Dome one year. But you know, I thought he was good back then, very much in control, very good quarterback and he's proven that in the NFL. 
 So, you know, again, I think any time you line up against teams that you respect and teams -- they were very good back then. Syracuse was very good. It kind of brings out the best in you. 

 Q. How big of a loss is Antoine Hopkins along your defensive line, and how do you think you'll replace him on Saturday against a very good Miami offensive line?
 COACH BEAMER: Yeah, that's a tough loss, because he really could hold the fort in there. He was really a strong guy, athletic guy and had taken lot of snaps; so it's a big loss. 
 Right now, Corey Marshall, he's probably going to start there. Maddy is having a little trouble; his ankle is still bothering him. I'm not sure he's going to be able to go. We'll see how he practices today. And we have a couple other guys, Hamlette and Courtney Prince, we moved him over to the offense and brought him back over to defense this week and he's getting some snaps in there. 
 And Tucker, he's getting some snaps, so we have to kind of settle on a lineup and get practice down with the four guys that we feel like is going to be playing Saturday.

 Q. And what would you say to your fans who perhaps have lost a little confidence in your young quarterback, Logan Thomas? Is that a bit of an over reaction?
 COACH BEAMER: Well, I think Logan is going to be just fine. He's a smart guy. He's got poise. He knows what it's all about. He's going to learn. It's just a thing that has to happen. He's got to learn and people around him have got to help, too. 
 Several plays there Saturday, might look like a quarterback is not doing the right thing, but the reality is some other guys are not doing the right thing. We have got to help our quarterback out. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT