ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 28, 2011
Frank Beamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


   THE MODERATOR: We now welcome Virginia Tech head coach Frank Beamer. 
 COACH BEAMER: Yeah, we really have a challenge here this weekend. I think it's just -- the goal is to slow this offense down. I don't think you're going to stop it. I think you just try to slow it down. The players are executing well and they have a quarterback that's leading them very well. 
 So slowing it down is our objective right now. I think they can play fast-paced on offense, and if they do get the defense in there quickly, they have confidence they are going to do the job, and they should have confidence. I think this is a defense that's getting better all the time, and it's a real challenge for us here on Saturday. 

 Q. I know you're preparing for Clemson but wanted to ask you about a quarterback no longer in your league, Russell Wilson. You had some success slowing him down and one of your former coaches had a lot of success when he was at Carolina a few years ago. How do you defend Russell Wilson effectively as a defense? 
 COACH BEAMER: I think that's a tough deal. He's one of those guys that can really throw it and really run it and not just average throw it or average run it; he can really throw it and really run it.
 And then you put that in with what he's got right now, a great running game. I think that puts all the more pressure. There's a lot more holes in that sector when you are out there trying to stop the run. 
 So you know, I think he's in a great system for him and, you know, as far as I know, I know a great talent and from everything I've heard, a great kid. So that's what I know about him. 

 Q. Because he's not real tall, is getting pressure up the middle something that you can obscure his vision a little bit? 
 COACH BEAMER: We have a couple around here that's not super tall and I think he's kind of like a couple of those guys, Tyrod (ph) and Michael Vick and so forth. I think he just has a knack of finding the lane to throw in. I never -- I can't remember preparing for him and saying, well, there's this advantage of being short with him. I think he kind of finds a way of dealing with it. 

 Q. Wonder if you could explain a couple of things. Obviously you like your quarterback and you have done very well recruiting quarterbacks out of that Hampton Rose/Norfolk area of Virginia. Were you ever in it with Tajh Boyd, and can you explain the number of good quarterbacks that have come out of this area? What kind of water are those kids drinking, or what are they getting fed to get the quarterbacks lately out of that region?
 COACH BEAMER: We tried to be in it with Boyd. I'm not sure that we ever were really in it, but we certainly tried because we realized when he was in high school, he was an excellent quarterback; there was no question about that. 
 I think it's one of those things that -- I will say this. The coaching in the State of Virginia is very good. Generally speaking, we have good coaching in the state, but for that many good quarterbacks, and great quarterbacks, to come out of that area, I think it's just one those things that just happens. Because I would tell you, it's an unusual number and they have all been very, very good. You go back over the years and there's been a lot of great players come out of that area right there.

 Q. And wondering, is it going to be as simple as when Michael came up, just all of the sudden a lot of kids decided -- good athletes decided they wanted to play quarterback and the coaches may have nurtured that in that area and one might have fed off the other? 
 COACH BEAMER: That might have had a little to do with it, but certainly there's some God-given skills that these kids had that allowed them to be as good of quarterbacks as they are. 

 Q. I wanted to ask you about David Wilson. Before this year, he was obviously a great threat as a return guy, and I know he's doing some kick returns now, but do you change the way that you use him, the fact that you are asking him to carry such a load as the primary ball carrier now? 
 COACH BEAMER: Well, I think we are blessed that Josh Oglesby is back there and we like Tony Gregory. He has not been able to get in there very much. But Josh, he's a veteran guy, a senior guy that's been around, and he's done some really good, tough running for us and some very important running for us. It not like, you know, David is the only guy you've got. 
 But it's hard to slow that guy down. He runs on -- he's full tilt just about all the time, and just about whatever he's doing. That's just the way his life is. I don't think you try to slow David Wilson down much. 

 Q. Do you spot using those return guys to protect him as a running back? 
 COACH BEAMER: He wants to do kickoff returns. I mean, that's his desire, and we want him to. Personally, I think it gives -- the special team plays are always momentum plays. They are always yardage plays. Whether you start at 20-yard line or the 30- or 35-, and there's a big difference. There's a first down involved in that and so forth. 
 If anything, we try to spot him on offense and keep him in there in those special team plays, because they are open-field plays. They are plays that really make a difference in the ballgame. 

 Q. What do you think of Logan Thomas as a thrower, and are there any major differences in this offense with him at quarterback versus previously?
 COACH BEAMER: I think Logan is a good thrower. I think he's getting a little bit better each and every week. Last week I thought he managed the game very well, and never got rattled. He's a smart guy. He's very much in control. He's very poised. 
 You like him as the leader of your football team. So that's -- and do a few things just a little bit different. I think you emphasize some things a little bit more. But basically, we are pretty much the same from one year to the next. But I think you always take advantage or try to take advantage of the pluses in your personnel. So the general model for us is we don't change a lot. 

 Q. Just wanted to ask you about the home field. Seems like it's been a while since you've had a big, meaningful game at night at Lane Stadium. What makes that special? What makes night games at Lane kind of separate that from others? 
 COACH BEAMER: You know, I credit our fans. They really I think are very knowledgeable and they feel like they helped us win, and I feel like they help us win. There's no question about that. 
 I can say this: We are going to need all the help we are going to get this week. We have got as talented and as good, confident, playing at a high level team coming in here as I can remember. I mean, this is a -- they are really, really good. 

 Q. Do you think you have -- do you think that that crowd, those night games, that creates a true home-field advantage are for you guys? 
 COACH BEAMER: I think there's a lot of enthusiasm and encouraging going on. We need all of that that we can get. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT