ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 13, 2010
Frank Beamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


   COACH BEAMER: I think in Wake Forest, you've got a tremendously dangerous football team. I think they've had some tough luck here the last couple of weeks.   
 But you look at the last three ballgames, their defense has held Florida State to 17 with 7 minutes to go in the game. You know, I think the quarterback certainly has been an issue for them. But it looks like to me they found their guy last week, and boy did he play well.   
 I think I look at Florida State, and they're sacking their quarterback down there and got those fast guys coming off the edge. So I just think it's a football team that is just very dangerous. I think they play hard. No one to respect more than Jim Grobe and how they operate and how he coaches his guys up.   
 I know it's going to be a very, very tough football game here Saturday and one that we've got to really play extremely well.   
  
  Q. Your defense was young at the beginning of the season. Now that you're about halfway through, I wonder, do you still look at it as a young defense but more than that, how has the progress been?   
 COACH BEAMER: I think we're making progress. We started rough the last couple ballgames, but I think improved as the game went along. Sometimes that happens with guys that haven't been in a lot of battles. But I think we've been pretty good at adjusting and trying to get the game going back our way defensively.   
 But overall it's good. Some of the younger guys James Gayle and Drager and J.R. Collins. And Gayle came in, two red shirt freshmen. You see them getting better all the time. We've got a true freshman, Derrick Hopkins, you see him getting better all the time. And Antoine Hopkins probably played his best football game ever here at Virginia Tech last week.   
 So I think there are some bright spots, but I think it's a work in progress. As a football team, we've got to continue to get better.   
  
  Q. Coach Grobe was just lamenting the fact that you always beat him in golf. Is that the case?   
 COACH BEAMER: I've never known him to lie. But he might be lying about that. He can knock that ball down there a long ways.   
  
  Q. I saw in the game last week you all ran an option play for a touchdown. I was wondering if that was a new play you had based upon the success that more teams are having with the option or is that something you've had for a long time?   
 COACH BEAMER: That's something we've done for quite a long time, really. With Tyrod, he's very good at it. The reads, it just it's come very natural to him he's certainly a threat. Then we've got some backs that are threats.   
 So we think that's a good play for us. I think we've got three options, and all of them have the ability to get the ball on down the field.   
  
  Q. Have you ever seen a play, like for example, a play like Georgia Tech would use, or that Wake Forest might have used and said that's one that would work for us and thought about putting that in your playbook?   
 COACH BEAMER: I think most coaches, looking around at as much video as you watch and you see something that kind of hits you. That's a good concept there, yeah. I think all of us are guilty of that.   
  
  Q. I'm working on a story about how the internet has changed recruiting in the past decade or so, and with the way coaches can find out about kids through the websites and you've seen some on You Tube, and kids can market themselves for the combines and whatever. How much has this changed what you do there at Virginia Tech? And have you seen players going this route that you may not have seen otherwise?   
 COACH BEAMER: Not very much. I really prefer to do it -- recruit within about six hours of your school. Get where mom and dads can be with them on a visit and come to games. Then you're going back to those same schools year in and year out and making relationships.   
 Your coaching staff stays in intact so the same people are going back to those schools and talking to people that you trust and knowing that they're giving you accurate information. I really prefer to recruit that way. I just really believe you've got a better chance on an 18-year-old kid turning out good for you rather than any other way.   
 I mean, I'm big on relationships. How you go back and know you can trust coaches and what they're telling you is accurate information, because you've dealt with them for a number of years.  
  
  Q. Do you think this much information getting out there in your time as a coach, is this probably the biggest change to the whole recruiting process that you've seen?   
 COACH BEAMER: Yeah, I don't think there is any question. There is a lot of information out there. There are a lot of things that you can go on. But I want to get it back down to what's real and what I know is real, and do it that way.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT