ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 6, 2010
Frank Beamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


   COACH BEAMER: Yeah, we've got a team coming in here that is used to winning. They won the MAC last year, a very good football team. Had a tough loss last Saturday, but they're a team that we've got to make a great preparation for, and they've really been able to throw the ball around.   
 They're allowing just 17 points a game on defense. I'm really -- really impressed with this football team. We need to get ready to play a great football game.  
  
  Q. I was curious, with guys like, not just Tyrod, of course but Wilson and Harris and Ponder and Parker, did you recall a time when there was this much real top-notch quarterback depth in this conference?   
 COACH BEAMER: No, I said before the season started, there are just a lot of request quarterbacks in this league, and they are. We like ours, but certainly there are guys that are playing at a very high level for other teams too.  
  
  Q. Could you just talk a little bit about the benefits of having a quarterback who can take off and run like Tyrod can?  
 COACH BEAMER: The other part is being accurate when he throws. The last touchdown pass he was right on the money. When you put those two together, you know, I think he's a real threat. And I think the fact that he's a very smart guy and very competitive, you put all those things to go, and I think you've got a really good quarterback.  
  
  Q. As a defense, what do you have to do differently to prepare for a quarterback that can take off and run like you'll see when you play Miami and Jacory Harris?   
 COACH BEAMER: Well, people do it different ways. Some people have a spy, some people changeup how they rush, who is going to rush hard, who is going to be soft. I think people do it different ways.  
  
  Q. You've been long time friends with Ralph Friedgen of Maryland. He ended the season on a fairly warm seat, they won two games last year. But they have four wins already there year. Based on what you know about Ralph, how do you feel about the start that he's had, and how he's handled some of the adversity that he had to deal with heading into this season? And are you surprised that they're off to a 4-1 start?   
 COACH BEAMER: What I know about Ralph, he's an excellent football coach. Extremely knowledgeable football coach. We've been around each other a lot and spent a lot of time with each other.   
 The other thing I know about him, he's an extremely tough personality. He's tough minded. He hangs in there. There's a lot of good about Ralph Friedgen, and a lot of things that are good.   
 No, you know, he's good when things look rough sometimes. He doesn't -- you're not going to shake him up. He tends to his business and works hard and leads his football team. The bottom line is he's a really, really good football coach and, I think, a tough-minded guy.  
  
  Q. You talked a lot about your offensive line the last few weeks. I've noticed that Andrew Miller, a guy who is third on the depth chart, he's gotten some time in recent weeks. How has he come along?   
 COACH BEAMER: He's coming along well. You know, he didn't getting to through spring. He had a shoulder bothering him there. But for a guy that's new, we really think he's going to be a very good football player.   
 I think when you've got guys that physically can do things, but they've been on the wrestler, I think that really helps them in football. Most good wrestler that have had the ability to play football, I've found to be very good football players. I think there is a carry over there somewhere.  
  
  Q. Is he a guy who continues to see time as this year goes on?   
 COACH BEAMER: Oh, absolutely, yeah. All he needs is reps. I mean, he's a tough fellow, and athletic. You know, he's exactly what we've been looking for or what we look for, I should say. So there is no question the more reps he gets in practice, the more he's going to be ready to play in a game.  
  
  Q. I want to ask about special teams. I know you guys are famous for the time and work you've put in and the success you've had. It didn't seem like that was an area of strength since the season started, but starting to come around. The kickoff return Saturday was a huge play. Can you just talk about that and were you unhappy early and are you happier now?   
 COACH BEAMER: Well, you know, we replaced a lot of play makers from last year. And all those play makers were guys that were excellent on special teams. I think of Cody Grimm and he played on just about all our special teams and was excellent. He was, along with a lot of other guys there, I think it's like an offensive-defense, when you've got new guys on are there, it takes a little time to get as consistent as you want.   
 But we understand how important special teams are, and we're trying to get better each and every day.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT