ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 29, 2010
Frank Beamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		   THE MODERATOR: We're now joined by Virginia Tech head football coach Frank Beamer. We'll ask for a brief opening statement and go to questions. 
 Coach. 
 COACH BEAMER: We're getting ready to play a team that's really hot, really very efficient, very fast, very well-coached, tremendous challenge for our football team. 
 Questions. 

 Q. Frank, there's a lot made of NC State's offense, the way they're playing. Their defense, at least from a yardage standpoint, probably held Georgia Tech in check as well as anybody has in a while. What were your impressions of their defense?
 COACH BEAMER: I'm very impressed. I think they're faster. I think they're really flying around. I think Nate Irving coming back is probably not only from a playing standpoint, probably a leadership standpoint, means a lot to that defense. 
 I think they got an impressive football team. Very, very impressive football team. 

 Q. It would seem your own defense has started to turn things up a bit. Is that just a matter of getting some game experience under their belts?
 COACH BEAMER: We played better. Last six quarters we played better. Getting ready to face an offense that's been very, very efficient, kind of certainly different from a quarterback's ability to run than we faced last week. We have a different challenge here this week. 

 Q. Coach, NC State was not picked to finish high in the conference by the media. You can say that while the media doesn't know what they're talking about sometimes, what did we miss? What are they doing so much better this year that makes them 4-0?
 COACH BEAMER: I think they added a couple guys to their defense that's really helped them. I think getting a linebacker back like Irving really helps them. I think their freshman runningback Green to go with Haynes there really helps them. Then they had the quarterback. 
 I think they did a good job coaching, but I think they've added some people. They had a lot of injuries last year. A lot of the people played. Now those people are back, plus some of the injury guys are back. They got a good combination going right now. 
 THE MODERATOR: Coach, we're going to let you off easy. Good luck this weekend. 
 COACH BEAMER: Thanks.





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT