ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 15, 2010
Frank Beamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


   THE MODERATOR: We now welcome Virginia Tech head football coach Frank Beamer. An opening statement and then we'll go to questions.
 COACH BEAMER: Yeah, that kind of says it all. They've been very good scoring points, over 500 yards average offense per game. Defensively they're very athletic. Got a real challenge coming in here, our playing in east Carolina on Saturday. Questions? 

 Q. Considering some of the challenges that have been seen on the defensive side of the ball, can you talk a little bit about how Bud Foster is looking to address some of those challenges heading into the week? Heading into this weekend with East Carolina moving forward? 
 COACH BEAMER: Well, both sides for us. We've got to take care of the details. I don't think there is any secrets. Fundamentally you've got to be good and tackle well. You know, hopefully we'll see an improvement of that in all phases of our football team, offense, defense, special teams. That would take care of the details a little bit better than we have in the first two ballgames. 
 I think we've played hard, given great effort in the first two ballgames. We've certainly got to play better.

 Q. How would you evaluate your rotation at tailback, and how do you think things will continue to shake out there? 
 COACH BEAMER: Well, I think the more we're into it, the more we'll get an idea exactly how we want to do it. We're fortunate to have some good tailbacks. You want to get them in there in the right number of plays, so we continue to work on that.

 Q. I just was curious I understand you all haven't started 0-2 since 1995, and that's obviously a long time. So the reaction of fans and just, you know, students on campus, alumni, et cetera, has been it seems like a little harsh. How have you all been dealing with that? Losing is just not something they're used to. 
 COACH BEAMER: Yeah, no question. You deal with what's real. We've got some great kids in our program. Kids that care a lot, want to be very good. They understand that we've got to take care of the details to do that, so that's what we've been concentrating on.

 Q. Coach, I was wondering this week in practice what you guys have been focusing on? You said more reps. Does that mean you're breaking it down and simplifying or working on repetition? With the ACC still out there for you, what stage your team is at right now as you get ready for this game and moving forward? 
 COACH BEAMER: Yeah, we understand that we need to become better as a football team. And we're practicing that way. You know, again, I think it's just a matter of you've got some young guys on your defense. You've got a couple of young guys on the offensive line and let's continue to do things the way we should and be a good football team. So that is the direction we're trying to go.

 Q. I guess this series with East Carolina, you guys have a pretty long relationship with them over the last couple of years it's gotten really competitive. Is this the series non-conferencewise that you really like and really fits well with y'all? 
 COACH BEAMER: Well, it's two schools that are fairly close to each other. Two schools that certainly respect each other, and I respect their program and the leadership over there in their program. So yeah, I think it's a good series for both schools.

 Q. Last time you guys started 0-2 was in 1995. I just wanted to ask you a question about that '95 team. Is there anything you point to within that team character-wise or talent-wise that you were able to recover and make that run to the Sugar Bowl from what you recall? Was there a defining characteristic of that team that made them be able to dig themselves out of that hole? 
 COACH BEAMER: Again, I think you've got to have good character to come back when you have adversity and generally every team's going to have some is adversity along the way. How you respond to it says it all. 
 So I think that team in '95 had that. And I think this team here, I know we've got good leadership, good kids. So we want to just come out and somehow play better.

 Q. Correct me if I'm wrong on this, but it seems like there's consistently been struggles up front on the offensive line. I'm wondering if that recruiting, if it's guys leaving? Because you know you have guys who can run, they have the blocks, they're gone. Is that still -- is that still a problem and if so, why? 
 COACH BEAMER: Well, I think whether it's sometimes a little bit of an adjustment period. We've seen it on defense and the more reps you get, the more consistency you get. And that's what we're trying to do right now is become more consistent.

 Q. A quick follow-up question. Coming out of the first week loss against Boise State, one of the things that I was impressed with was the way that Jarrett Boykin was able to get involved in that game. Coming into the second week, he grabs an early touchdown but seemed to be nullified after that point. What was it that James Madison was able to do to take him out of that game, do you think? 
 COACH BEAMER: I think number one, James Madison is very well-coached on defense, and they're very well-coached as a football team and have some good players. But generally, we'll try to throw it in read coverage and try to throw it to the open guy. That's the way it operates right here, so they covered him up a little bit.

 Q. Coach Beamer, two quick issues. Number one, seems like confidence is the catch 22. You've got a lot of young guys who need to play with confidence. When you lose, it's hard to establish confidence. Where do you think the confidence level is on your team right now? And if it's low, how do you get that back? 
 COACH BEAMER: I think when you look at video and you look at plays and you say if we had done this or done that or had one more block here or wrapped up in tackle there, that we're going to have success. I try to deal with what's real. 
 When you look at the video, you can point out how we can be successful. So, then you do. You've got to get it done to have confidence. I don't think confidence can be a fake thing. I think it has to be a thing that you know you can get the thing accomplished, so that's the way we attack that.

 Q. The final issue, the short week, Boise State, then flipping right around on a short week. I know hindsight is 20-20. I've seen a lot of people saying you guys are crazy to schedule two games like that. Having been through that and now losing both games, what are your thoughts on the other side of that? 
 COACH BEAMER: Well, I wouldn't want to do that again. I'll be honest with you. I think from a mental standpoint, I mean you've got a short week and practices are you're out of schedule with your practices, and then physically it takes your recovery time is affected there. 
 But it was what it was, and we got beat by two good football teams and I give them the credit and don't want to make any excuses. But those short weeks are tough to do. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT