FEDEX ORANGE BOWL
January 2, 2008
Frank Beamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		   JASON ALPERT:  Coach Frank Beamer from Virginia Tech has joined us.  Coach, thank you very much for being here.  Now just one day away from the game, what is left to do to get your team ready for the FedEx Orange Bowl? 
 COACH BEAMER:  We'll have a little walk through, checking special teams and so forth here this afternoon.  Go over to the stadium.  Get a picture made over there.  And then have some meetings tonight and some kicking meetings tomorrow, and then should be ready to go. 

 Q.  Can we get an update on Vince Hall? 
 COACH BEAMER:  Well, we'll see.  I think it will be a game-time decision between the doctors to see if he can play.  It's tender right now.  So I'm not sure what's going to happen there.  We'll have Warren taking his place, and of course he was hurt three or four games through the year, and Brett came in and did a good job, so we've got a lot of confidence in him. 

 Q.  Have you faced any blocker this year who has been able to neutralize Chris Ellis?  Or has he been really good game in and game out? 
 COACH BEAMER:  He's been particularly good here down the stretch.  I think he's played his best football over the last four or five ballgames.  And, you know, he's very athletic.  He's got good size.  He's a very, very good football player. 

 Q.  As you guys spend a lot of time developing young men and whatever, can you just kind of talk about from your perspective what it was like for you to see what Sean went through and how he kind of handled it, and how he bounced back, leading up to the MVP? 
 COACH BEAMER:  I'm really proud of Sean.  He's very disappointed when we decided that we were going to go with Tyrod.  But I think the other side of it, I think he came out and he's very much a competitor.  He likes the competition.  He's a smart guy.  He kept himself sharp, and then when it came time to go into the Duke game, he was ready to go. 
 And that's kind of the way things you preach.  Keep yourself ready, whenever your opportunity comes, make the most of it.  And he certainly did that. 
 I said a couple of times, I don't think we could have won the ACC Championship if we didn't have both Tyrod and Sean.  Both of them did things at different times during the season in particular games that got us over the hump.  And then, of course, both of them got hurt down the stretch.  Where the other guy had to finish the game.  So I think we needed both of those guys to win the ACC Championship. 

 Q.  A lot of the country was pretty amazed this year by what Kansas was able to accomplish.  For people like yourself who are kind of on the inside of college football was it really that much of a surprise? 
 COACH BEAMER:  Well, when you look at them, you know, they're for real.  They can run the football, they can throw the football.  They know the scheme, they know what they're trying to do.  Defense plays hard, they've got some really good players.  Your kicking game is good.  You've got a great return guy there in the kickoff return department. 
 When you look at them, it's not a surprise.  I mean, they're a solid football team and very well coached and talented.  They've got all the ingredients there, so it shouldn't be a surprise, no. 

 Q.  Along those lines, have you ever come up against an opponent that had 20 more touchdowns than punts in a season?  And, if not, or if maybe you have seen it, how impressive a statistic is that in this day and age of college football? 
 COACH BEAMER:  You know, it's pretty amazing, really.  No, I don't think we've ever faced anyone like that.  I got ready to study their punts, and it wasn't very long.  It didn't take very long to study them, they didn't have many.  But that just shows you what an excellent football team they are.  Pretty amazing staff, really. 

 Q.  I know you talked a little about this in the last few weeks, but you don't always play 12 games, of course, in past years.  But to get to 12 wins what would that mean to you? 
 COACH BEAMER:  Well, it set a standard there at Virginia Tech, we've never done it there, and for our seniors, I think it's a great statement about them that we could have a chance to do that.  So in this day and time you go out there, and I think you look at this football season and any particular Saturday, anything can happen.  So we get to 12 wins in this time, that's a good thing. 

 Q.  You mentioned your seniors; could you talk about that group and how special they've been to have won at least ten games in each of their four years here as they get ready to ride off into the sunset? 
 COACH BEAMER:  It's a good crowd.  They like to play the game.  They're very competitive.  They enjoy playing football.  They're smart kids.  They play the game smart.  They've certainly meant a lot to Virginia Tech.  For them to accomplish what they've accomplished while they've been there says a lot about them. 

 Q.  Is there something about this team that will be a lasting memory for you?  Maybe about their collective personality? 
 COACH BEAMER:  You know, as we went through the season, we had our couple of really disappointing losses that weren't only losses, they were disappointing losses.  LSU just got hammered.  Boston College had the game and all of a sudden got away from us. 
 But what I like and what I'm going to remember is the way we came back after that B.C. game.  And the way the kids and coaches were relentless in their efforts, relentless in their play.  Came down the stretch, got off behind a couple of games, came right back and took the lead, and the way we played at the end. 
 We were really hopeful it was going to carry over.  But we were really a good football team.  Offensively we were good.  Defensively we were good, special teams we were getting some plays.  And I think we're playing smart.  Not a lot of penalties.  So the way we were playing as a football team, you know, it's particularly happy with that. 
 So the way we came back, the way we finished up play, that's good memories right there. 

 Q.  When this thing began in Shreveport in '93, you probably had no idea it would reach this level, but you had hoped that.  Talk, if you would, about the importance at the time that Hokie Nation didn't exist, how that's kind of gone hand in hand, the fans and the program? 
 COACH BEAMER:  It's been a good ride.  Back in Shreveport and our first bowl game.  Things just seemed to keep growing, and keep building, and keep getting bigger and better.  And the fans have been right in the middle of that.  And you know, you're not talking about Virginia Tech football for long until you start talking about the fans and the great support, and the way they travel with us and support us. 
 So they're very much a part of this thing.  We've got fans that are very much a part of this thing and help us win football games.  And I think the bowl people kind of like them, too.  They show up. 

 Q.  You're speaking a minute ago about how 12 wins today is a good record because of what can happen to you on any Saturday.  For a long time, it was a cliche that you could get beat any time.  But has that not become a reality in college football?  Do we have in an age of unrealistic expectations of people outside the game? 
 COACH BEAMER:  I think so.  I never thought LSU would have two losses, but there's a couple of things that got them on the right night.  I think it's just a fact.  Anyone can beat another team. 
 I think the scholarship limit, and we talk about 85 scholarships, we're really only talking about 50 guys that are going to be playing.  You know, the others are red shirting or whatever.  So, you know, I think the talent levels got closer together, so anything can happen on any particular Saturday. 
 Then I look at expectations.  Losses are just devastating anymore.  I think between the internet and talk shows and salaries of coaches and all those things kind of going together, it's just that big.  People expect you to win every week, and that's just the way it is. 

 Q.  When you look at all the success you guys have had in bowl games of late, and maybe more so than in Kansas, obviously, do you see that as an advantage for you guys going into this game? 
 COACH BEAMER:  Not particularly.  I think it's important that the game be important to the players.  I think when you get to bowl games there's a time between the last ballgame and this ballgame. 
 I said a couple of times this week, back when we played Texas in I guess it was '95 in the Sugar Bowl, I really thought that game meant more to us than it did to Texas.  We ended up beating them.  We were kind of a new team on the block back then. 
 Now Kansas, with the way they've come around, and we've been to a few bowls, we've got to be careful that it's as important to us as it is to Kansas.  And it should be. 
 You know, we've got chances to win 12 games.  We've got a chance to win the football game to be two, three in the polls.  You don't have an opportunity to do that very often.  So there's a lot for us to play for. 
 Hopefully, I know Kansas is going to be ready and it's important to them, and I'm hopeful that it's going to be important to us also. 

 Q.  Just expanding on that a little bit, how do you keep a team focused when you want your players to enjoy the beach parties and everything that comes with Florida and the Orange Bowl?  Having your families here on the holiday and yet prepare for a team, and prepare for a game with, as you mentioned, so much at stake? 
 COACH BEAMER:  Yeah, we talked about this quite a bit as a football team.  It's one of those deals, it's kind of what you're thinking when you're thinking.  You've got to be organized in your thinking. 
 That's why down here this is Friday to us.  I'm not sure what day it is.  But it's Friday.  You know, as we prepare for the game we're playing on Saturday, you know, keeping the days organized, knowing where you are in your week and what you should be feeling and what you should be thinking.  So that's one part of it.  Then enjoy the things. 
 As I said, when you're out here practicing and it's time to think football, think football.  That's the only thing that we think.  Then when you're back at the hotel, enjoy what's going on and enjoy Miami and the things that are around here, because it should be a reward for a great season. 
 I think getting yourself organized and get thinking about the right thing at the right time is critical in a bowl preparation. 

 Q.  With UVA and Clemson losing in the ACC you've had a little bad luck in the bowl season.  Can you talk about representing the conference in this game? 
 COACH BEAMER:  I think we're always doing that.  I think any particular year you can look at it and conferences get on a roll.  I'm proud of the ACC.  I think there's a lot of good football teams in the ACC.  We've had a couple of tough games there, but the ACC year in and year out, they're going to hold their own. 
 The teams do good, the coaches do good.  And I think the conference is getting better all the time. 

 Q.  You've been a mainstay in Virginia Tech, and as you've been staying in Blacksburg, a lot of coaches around the country have been leaving, taking other jobs.  Do you think the art of staying at one school for a long period of time, such as you or Bowden or Paterno, do you think that's lost in the game today? 
 COACH BEAMER:  I think it's going to be hard for anyone to stay in one place for a long period of time.  I think from one side of it the coaches and the money's out there, and there's attractive offers.  But then on the other side I think that people don't usually want you to stick around for a long period of time. 
 Fortunately, for me, after about six years the administration when some of the fans thought I should be going, I had an administration that stayed with us.  We got through those tough years and got to some good years. 
 I think it's going to be tough.  I don't know if you're going to see people stay in one place for long periods of time.  I'm not sure that's going to happen in college football. 

 Q.  Since last spring you have been the face of Virginia Tech outside of the football arena, dealing with the tragedy also questions about a former player.  How have you been able to handle that and the pressure of coaching a Top 10 football team with the calm and the class that you've been able to deal with this for so many months? 
 COACH BEAMER:  Well, thank you.  You know it's just what needs to happen.  It's what needs to get done.  You know, Virginia Tech needed to rally around a football team.  I knew that.  They needed people that they were familiar with.  Needed to be out front and be positive.  We're going to get through this. 
 It's going to be tough.  All of us know it's going to be tough, but together we can get through this.  And that's what I've tried to get out there, and that's what we've tried to do.  I think the Virginia Tech people have done a great job. 
 We'll never forget those victims or the families of the people who were shot.  But we'll rally together and be stronger and tighter than ever.  And I think that's what has happened. 

 Q.  This is a two-fold question.  Has the two quarterback system maybe worked a little better than you thought?  And do you feel that makes you guys a little more difficult to prepare for because the two of them are a lot different in what they do on the football field? 
 COACH BEAMER:  It has worked well.  I never thought I'd be involved with two quarterbacks.  Always been a one-quarterback guy.  When we did it a little bit with Brian and Marcus, that wasn't very good.  But this one just kind of developed.  And I think what you just said they're different.  They both have ability and give you things that win football games, but they're so different that it makes it -- it works together, I think.  And both of them can do the other thing. 
 You know, Sean can run well enough where he's not just a throw-in, and Tyrod certainly can throw well enough that he's not just a runner.  He's a really good passer.  So the thing has worked.  And chemistry between them, and the chemistry between our football team with those two guys has been good.  So we want to try it one more time. 

 Q.  Does your pregame speech this year any different than any other year? 
 COACH BEAMER:  No, you know, I think talking during the week is when you better get people's attention.  If you wait until the ballgame to get them ready and right, you've probably waited too long. 
 We've really practiced well down here.  I think the leadership on our football team has been good.  And everything that goes on around the bowl game.  We've practiced well.  And I'm hopeful that we're going to play well.  You know, I think carrying the load here a little bit -- not carrying the load, but our people that do want to rally around this football team and have throughout the year, winning the ACC Championship is great. 
 And if we can somehow win this game tomorrow, and being Orange Bowl Champions in the year that the Tech people want to rally around that football team, it would be a great finish. 

 Q.  How, exactly, did Vince hurt himself?  Mike said he thought it was a jet ski, and if it was, does that make you hesitant to do those sort of activities in the future at bowls? 
 COACH BEAMER:  Well, it just happened.  It was on a jet ski, as I understand it.  But it's just one of those things that happen.  I think the kids need to enjoy themselves.  Take advantage of what the Orange Bowl people have provided.  It was just something that happened. 

 Q.  It's rare that a team has two corners that are equally great.  Can you talk about the match-up for the Kansas receivers?  Playing man or zone, obviously, you can get away with man more than most schools.  But you do play a lot of zone as well.  Just talk about that match-up, please? 
 COACH BEAMER:  Yeah, we do have two good corners, Brandon Flowers and Harris.  I don't think it will get down -- Kansas has good receivers -- I don't think it will get down to those match-ups as much as it will to get some pressure on Kansas. 
 That's going to be the real issue, trying to get the ball out of there a little sooner than Kansas would like.  So I think that's what the real match-up is. 

 Q.  How much time because of the length of time between your last game and this game that you have to prepare?  How much time do you spend looking at yourself, scouting yourself for tendencies because the other team has so long to prepare for you? 
 COACH BEAMER:  Yeah, that all goes into it.  Certainly we keep track of that as we go through the year.  It's important to know what the other team knows.  Sometimes as you get going along, you're calling plays that you don't feel like you're in a tendency, but you are making one or forming one.  So we keep up with that as we go, so this game is no different. 

 Q.  Can you talk about the job that Mark Mangino has done in building this program, not from scratch, but clearly they've come a long way in a short period of time? 
 COACH BEAMER:  They have.  Yeah, he deserves a lot of credit.  Someone said how did they get so good so fast?  It's solid people.  He's a solid coach.  You look at their football team, they're good offensively, they're good defensively, they're good in the kicking game.  They're very disciplined.  They play hard.  They're going to be good for a while.  I don't think there's any question. 
 They've got good players.  They're going to be good for a while.  I think it all goes back to the direction that he took that Kansas team.  There is no question he's done a heck of a job and deserves Coach of the Year.  There are a lot of rewards that he's received. 

 Q.  When Todd Reesing came out of high school, just about every coach in the country thought he was too short to play.  They've designed a lot of roll outs and boot legs to get him windows for the passing lanes.  From what you've seen is his height a disadvantage? 
 COACH BEAMER:  Well, I think he plays well.  I think there are guys that just have a knack for that.  Have a knack for finding the lane, moving over a little bit.  I don't see it as a problem for him. 
 You look at his percentage throwing or percentage completion, it doesn't seem to be a problem.  He does a heck of a job. 

 Q.  You mentioned the match-up of the pressure you can give the quarterback.  How impressed are you with Kansas' offensive line in general, and Anthony Collins left tackle in particular? 
 COACH BEAMER:  Well, they're good.  You don't score as many points as they've scored, second in the country in scoring offense.  You don't do that unless you've got a good offense, good offensive line, and good running backs, good receivers, good quarterback. 
 I think you have to put all of that together, and they have.  I think the stats speak for themselves.  So there is no question their offensive line is capable and have done very, very well as an offensive football team.  No question. 
 JASON ALPERT:  Coach, thank you very much. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT