ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 8, 2014
Frank Beamer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		  COACH BEAMER:   Certainly doesn't get any easier, you go into Pittsburgh and play a team that physically plays very tough.   They have got good players.   It's going to be‑‑ certainly we played there before and understand what it's like.   Got to get ready.   Got a little time off here which I think helps.   We're going to practice today and practice tomorrow, and then take a couple days break and then have a normal week of practice for Pittsburgh. 
It's allowed us to do some recruiting, and I think the rest came at a good time.   We needed a little time off.   So, questions. 

Q.   I know you addressed the schedule a little bit.   But when you have a bye week like this, when do you let the players start watching tape of Pittsburgh?   And same for the coaches, do the coaches get a jump start and the players wait or how do you handle that?
COACH BEAMER:   Yeah, absolutely.   We spent some time this week watching recruits but we've spent some time getting ready for Pittsburgh, too.   So we've got a little extra time jump on that.   We try to take care of both of them, recruiting and your next ballgame. 

Q.   And do you have any kind of an update on Marshawn Williams?   Do you expect him to be ready for next Thursday? 
COACH BEAMER:   Marshawn expects him to be ready.   I saw him yesterday and he was talking very positive and felt good about his ankle.   But I think we have to wait and see.   I've seen those ankles, they do good for awhile and then they seem to be slow for a while.   We're very hopeful he'll be able to play.
If not, I've said all along, Joel Caleb is a guy that I think is ready to step in and be a good performer for us.   He's got talent, he's got ability and it's time for him to step in there, and then JC has always been a very dependable guy and tough guy.   We'll see where all that goes.   

Q.   You had just brought up the rushing attack and JC and Joel have to step up in this situation potentially and moving forward.   How has the team responded to the adversity?   Do you feel like some of these injuries that have occurred will have ample time to heal going into Pittsburgh? 
COACH BEAMER:   Well, you know, it helps, but I think injuries are just a part of it, and I think our football team accepts that and whoever is in there, we feel like you're going to give us 100 percent. 
And a guy like Sam Rogers, he may get a little more work at tailback position.   I think wherever he is, whenever he's in the game, I've got great confidence in that guy.   You know he's going to play hard and play as well as he possibly can. 
So we don't sit back and think what we don't have too much.   We figure out what we got and try to make it the best we can.   So that's pretty much been the way the team has approached this thing. 

Q.   And then far as your team's ability to go on the road and win this season, you're going to have another road game coming up when you do face Pittsburgh on the 16th.   What can you say about how your team has responded offensively, defensively and special teams‑wise to being in a hostile environment and they have been able to answer that environment every single time?
COACH BEAMER:   Yeah, you know, I think we're young enough that maybe we don't know that we shouldn't be playing that well on the road. 
You know, we played very well.   Ohio State we had to play well and this past weekend we had to play well.   You try not to make it any different.   Hey, the field's the same.   Locker rooms are different, but other than that, it's go play football. 
The more you can play, regardless what day it is, what stadium you're in, the more you can play the same, the more you've got a chance of getting to a championship and play good week‑in, week‑out.   So that's what we strive for. 

Q.   The past couple of games, even though Michael Brewer had some interceptions, you kind of said that he graded out really well.   Curious when you reviewed this past week, how did he grade out? 
COACH BEAMER:   He did well.   He's a guy that does a lot of good things for you at quarterback.   He's I think a very good leader.   He's been efficient.   I think he'll learn from the interceptions and it won't happen again. 
You know, the one other day was a little bit different than what I thought it was at the game.   It was actually a receiver mistake on that. 
He's been good for our football program.   You know, we've got a couple guys behind him that we feel good about, in Leal which Motley.   So that's a solid position for us I think. 

Q.   Shai McKenzie I believe is out for the season with a knee injury.   What progress was he making as a freshman before he got hurt?   I know he had a couple decent games there. 
COACH BEAMER:   He did.   You know, a great kid, and he was really coming along.   The game he got hurt, you noticed him out there.   He can run with power, he's got speed, will block for you.   He's got a bright future.   It just kind of broke your heart that he got hurt.   But he'll be back and be stronger than ever I feel like. 

Q.   Has there been any final decision on what you plan to do with Brandon Facyson going forward with the medical redshirt? 
COACH BEAMER:   Oh, yeah.   I don't think we‑‑ you know, he's just not right.   I think at this point in time, we're probably deep enough into it that you just try to get him well and get him back to where he was. 

Q.   When you make a decision like that, is something he comes to you or you suggest it to him?   How does that all work when you are sort of deciding to medically redshirt someone like that?
COACH BEAMER:   Well, it goes both ways.   We always sit down with the person and get their views and what they think and what's the decisions, what's in the best interests for you.   I've said it all along, Brandon has a future after Virginia Tech, and you just want him performing at the highest level.   You know, he's not able to do that right now. 
But, you know, we always try to make the decision with the player and his family generally so everybody is on the same page.   





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT