ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
February 15, 2015
Elton Chigumbura
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Welcome Elton to the stage. For large parts of the game, you were probably in the game and disappointed about the ultimate result?  ELTON CHIGUMBURA:  Losing the game? Yes. But the way we played there were a lot of positives. I thought we had, like what you said, we were in the game for a long time, maybe we lost it the last five bowls of the game, but maybe batting and bowling, especially bowling.       Q. Would you point to that one particular over as possibly the turning point in the game?  ELTON CHIGUMBURA:  Nearest over, I think, 47th when it went maybe about 30, I think. I think that's where we gave too many runs that went away. I think getting runs in that over was a bit too much for us.       Q. You got a lot of choice in that attack. Does it seem it's a little confusing to decide who you're going to turn to in terms of managing? You have such a variety of bowlers and it seems that South Africa maybe were allowed to settle a little bit?  ELTON CHIGUMBURA:  Yeah, maybe, but at the same time because of the grounds it's too small, so couldn't bowl mainly our spinners, the main spinners. But at the same time we wanted to get the bowlers so they don't get used to the same bowler. So unfortunately it worked for maybe 46 overs, but 47 didn't work. But, yeah, I thought we have a bowl today, bowled well besides the last three overs, I think.       Q. Just chasing 340 is obviously a lot of runs. What was the thinking at the break? What kind of things did you guys plan on? And at which point in the chase did you think, okay, this is on?  ELTON CHIGUMBURA:  I think the way we started we were going on well. We didn't lose too many wickets. We only lost one wicket. The partnership between (indiscernible) and Chibhabha put us in the game. And it's unfortunate they went out the wrong times, especially Hamilton and Chibhabha. And we had wickets in hand the last 15 overs, but obviously we ended up losing the two wickets in the power play. Then from there it was pressure on us, and before those 35 overs.       Q. Zimbabwe has a history of upsets in the World Cups. Do you guys believe that you could really do it?  ELTON CHIGUMBURA:  Yeah, today, we wanted to be positive. But whether bowling, batting, even in our fielding, overall everyone was afraid, and obvious, like I said yesterday, that the team that plays good cricket on the day wins the game, and I thought South Africa at the end of the day played better cricket than us. At the same time, there is lots of positives that came from our team as well. So I think it's just a matter of carrying the form that way in to the next game, so that you can try to finish off obviously chasing bigger scorers, it's like you have to find the best strategy to chase it down. So, yeah, the next game if we are to chase another bigger score, we can change one or two things.       Q. Ultimately you've been part of the Zimbabwe team for a long time. We've been interviewing the fans outside. The Zimbabwe fans are very proud of their team. The South African fans are quite relieved because they were quite worried. The space you're in, you guys look like you're on to something good and you could do something really good in this World Cup. What do you put that down to?  ELTON CHIGUMBURA:  I think guys just being on the team, and guys expressing themselves. The more we do that as a team, we'll go far. What you say, we've got high hopes in this tournament. If we carry that form all the way in, it's just a matter of being ruthless if we get the chance to win the game.       Q. How much of a message do you think you've sent to the likes of West Indies, Pakistan, and even I suppose you were targeting the UAE anyway. But those other two do you think they should be aware that Zimbabwe are serious?  ELTON CHIGUMBURA:  Yeah, they should. They should do their homework. We are here to play positive cricket, and like I said, if we get a chance, we'll win the games and it will be positive from bowl one up until the last bowl of the game.       Q. Can you just tell us a little bit about the importance of Hamilton? He seems to be in really good form. He's pretty experienced even though it's his first World Cup. There are no nerves.  ELTON CHIGUMBURA:  Yeah, on a team to have a guy who is senior to be performing the way he's doing, it just rubs off to the rest of the players. So I hope we'll carry that form on, and it's always good to see him scoring around. He's a guy who is a (Indiscernible) on our team. Hopefully if he gets another chance, he can finish the games. Unfortunately, today he didn't finish off the game, but I thought he played well. His inning was a match-changing inning, so hopefully he can carry on the form he's in.
   
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT