ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
February 14, 2015
Elton Chigumbura
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Elton, the victory over SriLanka must have been a real boost for your team, especially considering Hamilton got 100 and Brendan batted really well. What can you take out of beating a side like SriLanka into the next couple of weeks?    ELTON CHIGUMBURA: It gives us a lot of confidence. It gives us a lot of the belief that we do need as a team, that it's possible to beat a big team, and obvious, looking at the guys who performed, our main batters, which is a good sign. Yeah, we're looking forward to the main games now, and hopefully the guys who performed well will carry on with their form and hopefully finish on the better side tomorrow.       Q. Can you just tell us about the influence that Dave Houghton has had since he's come onto the side?    ELTON CHIGUMBURA: Yeah, look, he's an experienced coach. Guys are more comfortable dealing with him. He's bringing lots of experience and different tactics and looking at the games that we played, the two games that we played, you can tell that we're heading in the right direction.       Q. Elton, is playing South Africa sort of the pinnacle for Zimbabwe in the World Cup?    ELTON CHIGUMBURA: Obviously playing a big team is challenging, but at the same time for us, it's also a good opportunity to express ourselves and try and play our best cricket, and like I said before, if we stick to our game plans and our processes right, at the end of the day it's about the team that plays the best cricket on the day.       Q. Elton, a couple of guys in the media sessions in Christchurch spoke about the importance of beating the UAE and Ireland as two of the smaller sides. How do you feel first of all about feeling that you need to compete with smaller sides, and do you think Zimbabwe are a smaller side? You are an ICC full member, you're a test playing nation, and people keep calling you small. How do you feel about that?    ELTON CHIGUMBURA: Yeah, obviously looking at the results before, people can call us small team. But I believe this tournament, if we play our best cricket, the tables will change, and also, looking at the games that we have played recently, they are good signs. Guys are believing that they belong here, so now obviously the main games, we just don't have to panic, just make sure that we express ourselves and do the processes right, and the result will take care of itself after.       Q. When you play a team like South Africa, in your preparation for them do you look at Hashim Amla, AB de Villiers or Dale Steyn, and what is your plan against them? They were thinking that you would come with quite a bit of spin and they're prepared to face quite a lot of spin.    ELTON CHIGUMBURA: The good thing about our team is guys will do two things, like bowl and bat, so for us, it's about working as a team, and obviously we're playing against a top team with world class players, but the main focus is on ourselves and make sure that we play our own game. Then that way I think if we do that, then we can put up a better performance by sticking to our game plans.       Q. Elton, would you say‑‑ you're not just playing against any big team, you're playing the big team to the south of you, who probably look down on you, and I think there's a fair bit of superiority from South Africans towards Zimbabweans in a sense. Is that a motivating factor?    ELTON CHIGUMBURA: Obviously they need to come and prove that right. For us we've got nothing to do lose to express ourselves. Obviously as an underdog team, the only thing that we can focus on is to play our best cricket and change the tables.       Q. Elton, in Zimbabwe recently a player was fined for watching videos of Mitchell Johnson in reverse. You've beaten South Africa in a World Cup. Are you going to watch a video of Neil Johnson?    ELTON CHIGUMBURA: I don't know about that. I think now it is a different coach. Obviously you just have to concentrate on‑‑ obviously we can't base on what happened before. It's a new day. It's going to be a new day, new game, so what we do on the day is going to make us whether we win the game or lose the game, so we just have to focus about tomorrow.       Q. Just in terms of your starting 11, have you had any thoughts how many spinners you might go in with or specialist seamers, etcetera?    ELTON CHIGUMBURA: Yeah, like I said before, the good thing about our team, we have batters who can bowl, so we've got a couple of spinners with a couple of seamers, as well. We have a good balance when it comes to batting and bowling on our team, which is a good thing going into this tournament.       Q. If you win the toss, will you bat or bowl?    ELTON CHIGUMBURA: I think it's too early to call for that. We'll see how the wicket will be like tomorrow. I think it's a bit too early for me to say we're going to bowl.       Q. Can you just talk a little bit about Solomon Mire. A lot of us haven't seen that much of him, but Brendan specifically was saying that he's a really big hitter. I suppose if he's going to take the finishing role, does that mean you'd have to be less of a finisher and more of a batsman who will bat through?    ELTON CHIGUMBURA: I think it depends with the situation. Yeah, he is a big hitter, and he's also a guy who can bat up the order. It depends with the situation and what we are doing first. You won't be surprised to see a flexible batting order.
     

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT