PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 31, 2016
Daniel Summerhays
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: Well, what a thrill.  I'm still shaking a little bit.  That was pretty amazing on the 18th hole.  I had an eagle look.  I know I was a little bit behind.  Just to have a chance to maybe win a major championship was a thrill of a lifetime.  Six birdies on the last ten holes, couldn't ask for a better finish.  I'm going to sleep really well tonight.  34 holes of golf out there.
Congrats to the staff here to getting the golf course playable, to the PGA for getting the cards right today for sure to get all this in, it's pretty amazing that we got it all in.
Q. What clicked for you?
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: I've been driving the ball really well for while now.  I drove it great again.  You have a couple missed fairways here and there, but I really drove the ball great again.  I putted better this week than I have the last few weeks and had a nice collection of some iron shots.  To finish Top-10, Top-5 in a major, everything kind of has to be going well.  I certainly found the bottom of the cup when I needed to.
Q. You were obviously trying to win a major championship, did the Masters ever cross your mind?
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: I don't know what -- top 4 does get you in the Masters?  That what's what I knew at the U.S. Open.  I was definitely thinking about that going up the 18th hole.  Hopefully that stands.  That's a lifetime dream.  I knew exactly where I stood.  I knew what was going on.  I used to kind of hide away from knowing what was going on and it almost made me more nervous because you start speculating and everything.  I knew exactly where I was.  It's so fun to know where you are and the situation and pump a drive down the middle of the fairway on kind of intimidating looking finishing drive.  Then to hit a wood up on the green like that and almost make a putt, that was pretty amazing.
Q. There's still a lot of golf left, but what would that mean to potentially get in the Masters?
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: I have got to Augusta theme song memorized.  I've got the words and everything.  I can here Jim Nance's voice in the back of my mind.  Hello friends, welcome to Augusta National.  It's been a dream.  Masters Sunday, you just sit down on the couch and you soak it all in.  That will -- if it holds, it will be a dream come true.
Q. When you made that putt on 16, what was going through your mind?
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: I know if I could get to 11, I would have a chance.  And when the putts start flowing, you don't play the percentages.  You say this one is going in.  I don't care what the percentages say, this one is going in.  I felt like that.  The was so fun to reel off those birdies and to really -- I mean, I can't really describe the feeling.  I had the goose bumps balking down the last four fairways, just the crowd here and everything going on, it was an amazing feeling.
Q. A lot of family here, which is pretty cool?
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: The family and everything, lot a lot of Summerhayses on property this week.  I had my wife and my two boys out there walking the whole back nine.  They brought a lot of birdies with them on the back nine.  I had my brother Boyd here who has been a big support.  Family is amazing.  I had my cousin Joseph who played in the event and he missed the cut, but he was still out there cheering me on with all his crew and what a dream come.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT