U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2016
Daniel Summerhays
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talking with Daniel Summerhays, who is 1 under for the championship and 2 under for the third round.  Tell me a little bit about coming back this morning and what it was like.  Did it get you recharged?  You had a good morning.  
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: Yeah, I think everything kind of went my way last night.  I was able to hit my tee shot on 15 when it was still a little bit warmer.  That kind of evening air, the ball seems to go really far.  I crushed a drive down there on 15, and I was able to -- I hit 9 iron in this morning.  The wind, everything was just right.  I hit it in there to about six feet and made the putt.   
16, again, the wind was favorable for me from my club selection.  Hit a 5 iron as hard as I could, had 12, 15 feet for birdie, barely missed that.   
17, hit a drive right up on the green, was able to roll in about a 20-footer.   
And then 18, had another good look.  So a lot of good momentum going into this afternoon.   
 Q.  Have you been playing 17 that way all week, or did you change your strategy on that today?  
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: No, from the first time I saw it, it was try and just pound driver up there to the left.  That wedge shot, it's a tricky wedge shot as well.  So you're hoping to get it up there.  If you can get it on the green, great.  If it's in that left rough, hopefully, you catch somewhat of a lie.   
 Q.  You're going to have some downtime now between now and when you tee off.  What will you do during that time?  
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: I'm going to go and try to sleep a little bit.  It wasn't too much rest last night, but I've got a nice break now, kind of reset, almost like a new day, and come out ready to go.   
 Q.  That's great.  Last question about Oakmont.  The course itself, you obviously have a good relationship with that as of this point.  Has there been anything that's surprised you about Oakmont?  I don't know if you played it before the Open this year.  Is there anything that surprised you, either in a negative way or a positive way, as far as the golf course and what you've seen?  
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: No, I think it's everything that it's cracked up to be for sure.  The rain that we got Wednesday night and all day Thursday definitely made it easier.  There's no way that we would all be under par if it had stayed even a little bit firm.  The fairways, we're able to keep the balls on the fairways.   
The four bogeys I made today is when I hit it in the rough.  I hit it in the rough four times, made four bogeys.  With firmer fairways, you're going to end up in the rough a lot more, and these greens will challenge and test you every shot.   
Even though the scores are somewhat under par, there's no comfortable shot here at Oakmont.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT