SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 15, 2016
Daniel Summerhays
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Daniel, 65 today.  Yesterday you closed on 9 and 18 with eagles.  Today you had birdies on those holes.  I think they're setting up pretty good for you, aren't they?  
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: Yeah, the par-5, I wish there were more than two par-5s around out here.  Yesterday was really important.  I bogeyed three out of four holes on my back side, and I was even par for the tournament and standing on 17 tee with 3-iron in your hand into the wind, it's not the easiest shot in the world.  And I just said, hey, I can finish birdie eagle and that's what I did and I kind of just continued that good moment onto today.  I played more solid today and felt really pleased with my round.   
 Q.  Talk a little bit about your motivation level this year.  I know finishing 31st last year going into the TOUR Championship just worn out.  So just your goals for the year?  
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: Yeah.  I think in the past I've always tried to press, like I need to -- you gotta almost feel like you have to be perfect and I think my mindset this year is a little better where I'm really trying to be objective about results and really work on my focus and the process.   
So I'm really excited for this year because I think mechanically my game is better, and then mentally I think it'll get me over the hump this year.   
 Q.  And you had four solid starts to open up the season, now off to a good start this season -- start this week.  
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: Yeah, it feels like a new season.  Luckily I have a few points in the bag already.  Like you said, those first four tournaments were just kind of a continuation of my strong finish of the 2015 season.   
So I am.  I'm really looking forward to this year, and I have big goals for myself, you know, but just going to be really objective and patient with the results.   
 Q.  Did you make any changes, like over like December or anything or what did you work on?  
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: Not really, you know.  I just started working actually with my brother Boyd Summerhays, and we're very similar, but his mind works a lot different than mine, and so it's really nice to kind of -- not a devil's advocate, but to really work together to figure out some refining solutions, I guess I would say.  And that's all it is is refining more than anything.   
But nothing super specific yet, but again, just excited for the new year and keep taking baby steps toward that TOUR Championship hopefully.   
 Q.  When did you and Boyd start working together again?  
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: Just right before this last season started, so in between the TOUR Championship and Frys?   
 Q.  Okay.  Perfect.  
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT