JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 11, 2015
Daniel Summerhays
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Daniel, you had a blitz of birdies early and then kind of hit the skids through the middle part of the round, but finished nicely today.  Your thoughts?DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: Yeah, it was a roller coaster round.  I asked my wife and my family out here if they were getting motion sickness from the roller coaster round. It was definitely -- you know, I played good enough to be, you know, right where Jordan and Danny are.  You know, I made seven birdies today.  Started off with a horrendous tee shot, had to chip out.  I had two chip-outs today, some drives that kind of cost me. But yeah, it was fun.  I mean I got on a good roll there.  I'm hitting a lot of good shots, and I mean I'm rolling the putts.  I lipped out still four times today, you know. So I'm excited for tomorrow.  I wish I was a couple shots closer, you know, maybe only two back or so.  But you know, you can get birdies flowing and hopefully tomorrow I'll be able to avoid the mistakes a little bit better.Q. You've had a lot of good scores around the TPC deer run.  What is it about this course that just looks for Daniel Summerhays?DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: You know, honestly, I think I read the greens really well here.  Some greens, you know, you get on, you're like, I have no idea what this is going to do, but I really -- I feel very confident in my read on the green.  So I think that helps a lot. I don't know, I -- you know, maybe the iron shots, they just kind of suit my eye, but I do love this place, for sure.Q. And tomorrow, thoughts on what's upcoming?  Do you get aggressive, play the same, rely on the putter?  Where are we?DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: Hopefully Jordan can only be 3-under through five holes and give -- no, you know, he's playing really well, and yeah, you gotta make a lot of birdies.  I think tomorrow I'm going to have to shoot 8, 9-under par probably depending on the conditions.  Jordan is at 17, and it's probably going to be 21, 22 that it's going to need to get to.  So we'll hopefully go low tomorrow.Q. (Indiscernible).DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: Yeah.  I'm on my way.  I just need to avoid the bogeys.  I think I've made 20 so far.  I've just -- so I had four bogeys today.  Yes, I made 20 birdies and seven bogeys.  Too many bogeys.Q. Saw it coming the other day where you said, Jordan a couple of years ago beating you was good for the sport or something like that.  You're in a position to kind of pay him back, I mean if he folds a little bit.DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: No, I mean I definitely -- yeah, no, I think Jordan winning when he did, like he said, you know, I watched a little video clip the other night on what if kind of thing, what if Jordan hadn't made that bunker shot.  But I think he said it best.  It was going to happen, you know, in his mind and in his heart, it was going to happen.  It was just a matter of time. But yeah, no, that was definitely -- that tournament was definitely a heart break for me because I really felt like I was going to win that week. But you never know, maybe I'll shoot a little 8, 9-under par tomorrow and come from behind and hopefully give him a run for his money.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT