JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 10, 2015
Daniel Summerhays
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: Really good iron shots this week, which has been really exciting.  Just stringing good iron shot after good iron shot.  Really can only think if one I wish I could have back.  That may have been in between clubs or maybe trying to take a little too much off a shot. But today's round I felt like I played pretty well.  I rolled my putts pretty good again.  I thought I made a couple on 6 and 7 there that kind of early called myself a little bit.  Thought I had made especially and they just slid by. Besides a couple drives, I felt like I played really told solid.  Really looking forward to the weekend.  Try and keep pace with Justin a little bit.   Q.  On golf course like this with so many players near the top, is a situation where you feel you have to keep the pedal to the metal here?  DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: For sure, yeah.  Every hole is birdie holes.  Even if they aren't.  I mean, 9 and 18 aren't necessarily birdie holes, but that's how you have to approach them.  You have to make probably somewhere between 25 and 30 birdies, depending how many bogeys you throw in there, to win this tournament, especially with how good the golf course is right now. I think I made 13 birdies, something like that, and 3 bogeys.  We're trying to keep pace with the birdie count.   Q.  You're always a really good putter in my estimation, but I've been really impressed with your iron play.  You've given yourself a lot of looks this week.  DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: Yeah, and when I can play good golf, that's what seems to click in, is I give myself a lot of good looks. And I have.  I've been very happy with my iron play so far this week.  The driver has been okay.  I haven't gotten too crazy.  I hit a couple bad ones the last couple days, but I've been really please with the solid strike I'm putting on a lot of my iron and wedge shots.   Q.  Like I said you're always a good putter.  You're 23rd in strokes game putting this year.  I thought you had a couple in the cup at both 6 and 7.  DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: I early walked it.  If you look back at the replay, I thought I had missed, and I don't know why.  I thought I had made it and it really just snapped off right at the end. On 7 just a little too much break.  I thought it would still curl in there, but if I still -- the more looks you get, you're going to miss a few more.  But you just keep that mentality that, Hey, I'm a great putter and I'm going to continue to scare that cup.   Q.  Robert Garrigues told us early on Thursday morning he thought 20-under would win this week.  To get to 20-under you're probably going to need, I don't know, 22, 25 birdies, something like that.  Are you comfortable going there this weekend?  DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: For sure.  A couple years ago when I was close to winning our motto was:  30 birdies.  A little jingle there.  I think that's what you need to do.  You need probably about 25 birdies.  The wind is not blowing really at all; the course is perfect. So I really do.  I think 20-, 21-under will probably win it.  Still have a lot of good golf to play.   Q.  Is the family out with you?  Still do Friday family fun night?  DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: Yeah, for sure.  Hopefully we can do pizza movie night tonight and cozy up on the couch.  We always do something fun regardless.   Q.  Talk about today's rounds.  String of four birdies there from the back into the front.  That stretch seemed to really spur this rounds on for you.  DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: Yeah, I was just trying to tap into Jordan's run he made earlier today.  He got to going there. But, yeah, hit a lot of really nice iron shots coming through there.  I hit a good drive on 17 and I was able to get up near the green and made a putt there. And then 18 I hit a really nice 6-iron in there, probably the best of the day, and was able to birdie there. Then 1 I hit a wedge to eight feet and made that. Yeah, it was a good round of golf.  A lot of solid iron shots. Few more putts.  It's hard to count the ones that you didn't get when you got a few, but I had some really nice looks that I still didn't capitalize on. Overall, if I can continue to hit solid iron shots, I'm going to get those looks.   Q.  Two back at this point.  Do you like your position going into tomorrow?  DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: Yeah, I knew Justin was going to get to 12 or 13.  I don't know exactly what he's going to finish at, but that's what I was hoping to kind of get to. And I had my chances.  Hit a bad drive on 8.  Really I'm pretty pleased with the way I've played and really looking forward to the weekend.   Q.  Your last 11 rounds here have been in the 60s.  You must like seeing this tournament on your calendar.  DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: Yeah, it's definitely a staple for sure.  The people running the tournament, you know, the tournament director and everyone involved with it, they really make it a fun event for me and my family. Just so happens I love the golf course, I love the greens, I read them really well, and can make a lot of birdies on this course.  Hopefully it'll be on the schedule for many years to come.   Q.  What allows you personally to play so well on this course?  DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: For some reason I really read the greens very well here, and so I have a lot of putts that are just always around the cup because I can see. Some greens, it's interesting.  You just don't reed it.  You don't see the subtleties in the greens, and in these greens I think I do.  I think I'm comfortable.  I've played it how many rounds here now, 20 some odd rounds.  You know where to hit it and where the pin positions are going to be.  You've already hit that shot. With more rounds you get more comfortable.  Seems like guys do.  You know Zach Johnson is going to play well here; you know Steve Stricker is going to play well here; you know Jordan Spieth is going to play well here.  He plays well everywhere, but hopefully my name will be in that group as a contender for the John Deere.   Q.  We saw you here a couple years ago when Jordan got that breakthrough.  How much do you draw on the last couple years the way you've closed out here?  DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: Yeah, I'm excited for the weekend.  I wouldn't say any redemption.  I don't feel like that at all.  Just really looking forward to the opportunity to get in the heat again and test myself and continue to learn how my body and mind reacts under the pressure. I am.  I'm really looking forward to it.   Q.  Do you need to try to attack tomorrow?  DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: I don't know if "attack" is necessarily the word, but I think aggressive for sure.  I think sometimes you can even pick a conservative line sometimes not aiming directly at the pin but you make a good aggressive swing, you know, you're really committed to that shot. If you can get it to within 15 feet out here you got a really good chance of making the putt.  Doesn't necessarily have to be a kick-in every time.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT