NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 19, 2015
Daniel Summerhays
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Nice round, any time you can shoot 66 at Riviera is a good thing.   Take us through the round today.   You had a good birdie stretch late on the back nine as you made the turn?  
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   Any time that you can get a few putts to drop and hit a few iron shots close here at Riv, you're feeling pretty good.   I don't know if there's a comfortable shot out there.   Every hole makes you think.   
Had a little bogey on 15 but came back with a nice birdie on 16.   Hit it tight on 17.   Chipped in on 18 and then you have 1, which is probably like one of the easier par 4s.   2 and 15 can be tougher than the par5, first.   Feel really good about my round and excited to continue the good play.   
   
 Q.   Old school golf course, this is your fourth time playing in this tournament.   Last year you made the cut.   How much does it take to get used to what you have to do on this golf course to be competitive?   
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   I think honestly, it takes a little bit, because, one, the greens are so tricky, they really are.   They have little subtle breaks in them and they are really fast.   You have to, sometimes the play in the rough is the right play, off the tee box, as well.   
Off 9, I can't carry the left trap so I'm aiming down the right rough line.   Those are things over time and experience save you a shot or two during the course of a round or a tournament, so definitely the experience helps here.   
   
 Q.   What is it like to start on 10?   
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   You stand on the tee and you say, there's really no good options here, and I'm just going to hit it and take whatever happens.   I like just when I can hitting it up there trying to get it to the left of the green and hope for the best, but there's really nothing you can do.   It's probably the best par 4 in golf.   
   
 Q.   Finally, how do the conditions change, because when you went off, we had the marine layer hanging over and now it looks like it's coming back.   
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   It's funny, in the morning, the wind goes out towards the ocean and once the sun breaks through, the marine layer comes back in.   So if you can time it right going around the holes, catch a few more downwind than into the wind, you're in good shape.   But I think the golf course is in incredible condition, and we're looking for some tough greens.   
Like I said, there's no putt out there that's very comfortable with the green speeds and the break, so looking forward for the rest of the week.  
   
 Q.   How much has your brother, Boyd, helped you?   
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   He never played this tournament.   He just played on TOUR for one year but I've played it‑‑ this is my fourth time, fourth year in a row here.   Yeah, Boyd is my brother, first and foremost and we just get along great.   
As far as coaching advice, there's really not.   He's just my big bro and supports me as best he can and he does a great job of that.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   Just hit a drive up there as best you can.   You've got to have a good target line off the tee.   My caddie has a lot of good numbers that way based on into the wind or downwind.   And then you really just try and hit it in the middle of the green there.   It's just a difficult hole and you hit solid shots and you hope for the best.   
   
 Q.   How do you approach 10?  
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   Kind of depends if your wedge game is feeling really good, to go ahead and lay it back.   If it's not, you're hoping to hit a good drive there.   If you can get it a little bit long left, you can usually punish back into the green.   It's still not an easy shot but you can usually curl something on to the green.   
I hit it left today and I was stymied right behind a palm.   But the green is so long, you at least have a portion of the green to hit it on.   I hit it on the front right and had a big, long, curl putt up there to try to salvage par.   It's probably one of the best par 4s in golf.   It's really fun to play.   
   
 Q.   How often have you gone for it?  
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   I've probably hit driver more often than not to be honest with you.   I think I may have hit driver every round last year.   For me, I don't have to worry about hitting it too, too far, because if you hit it too far over the green, then you're in the same boat as if you leave it short.   
But I think my driver goes just about the right distance where it kind of can get back into that back swale right there depending on the wind.   It's such a fun hole to play.   It's terrifying but enjoyable at the same time.   
   
 Q.   Boyd has worked with Tony?   
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   Correct.   
   
 Q.   Obviously Tony has come out here and done a lot of great things.   
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   I think it's incredible.   He's got a lot of talent and he's an even better guy.   He's not very assuming.   He has an inner confidence but he doesn't really portray any arrogance or anything like that which I think is really important.   
   
 Q.   What do you make of where we're at in terms of your game and going forward?   
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   Like where do I feel my game is?   I feel like I'm improving in every part.   This year has been tremendous freighting as far as the finishes.   I felt like I've had a lot of four or five times this season where coming down the back nine on Sunday, if I make a few birdies, I can crack a Top‑5 or even make a little run for it and I just kind of piddled off.   
So I've had a lot of frustrating finishes but I think that's golf.   You're going to fail more times than you succeed and it's how you bounce back from that.   
There's a couple quotes from Phil Mickelson where he talks about, failure fuels me and you have a lot more failures than you do successes and it's how you react to those.   Try and look at it that way but it's hard to not be a little frustrated with my finishes in tournaments so far this year.   
But it's a long year.   Usually I pick up the pace right in this time of year, so looking forward to the rest of the season and hopefully get in the hunt come Sunday afternoon to get the juices flowing again.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT