JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 12, 2014
Daniel Summerhays
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   No. 5, had a shot like that before?   
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   No, it reminded me of the old Michael Jordan and Larry Bird commercials, off the rafters, off the backboard, nothing but net, you know.   It was out of the rough, sidehill lie, under the tree, pulled hook off the net through the rough down the hill and in, nothing but net.  
   
 Q.   What was your reaction?   
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   Oh, just laughter.   Went from, we were just talking, if it wasn't a tournament and there wasn't the ShotLink or the grandstands there I'd make bogey or double bogey, so it was a three or four shot swing.   So it's fun to have something good happen like that.   A lot of times we feel like all the bad bounces happen to us, so it was refreshing to think that something good like that can happen.  
   
 Q.   Did it make a loud bang or hit the bleachers?   
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   It hit the netting, so it didn't actually hit the metal of it.   It just kind of bounced off the mesh, the green mesh, and then it bounced off, rolled through the rough.  
   
 Q.   So you were able to follow the flight?   
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   Yeah, yeah.   Once it got through the rough, I told my caddie this could be pretty good.   And we're just kind of standing there like this and it went in, and I almost fell over backwards in shock.  
   
 Q.   Well, you have two eagles in the first five holes?  
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   Yeah, and I was still third place in my group, I think.  
   
 Q.   Talk about playing in that group?   
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   It's fun.   It's fun to feed off of each other.   Watching Scott and Johnny play so well.   Yeah, just kind of riding their Coattails a little bit, and hopefully I'll be able to get some more tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Initial thought as the ball came off the club?   You must have known you mis‑hit it?   
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   Yeah, we were saying get down, get down, you know.   So, yeah, you knew it was kind of one of those where the rough grabs it, and it turns it and it's going.   So luckily the ShotLink tower was there, and went from a 5 or 6 to a 2.  
   
 Q.   What was the club and the yardage?   
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   It was a 9‑iron from 148, I think.  
   
 Q.   Last year you played well last year, obviously in contention.   Does that help you here second time around or does it even matter?   
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   Yeah, my game's not as sharp this year as it was last year.   But that doesn't mean tomorrow can't be a great day.   I bet the guys coming in, the lead will be around 17 or so. But that still only puts me six shots back.   So I have a round like Scott Brown did today, and you never know what will happen.   I had it in my grasp last year.   I was actually walking up 18 today and a little sentimental because I thought I was going to win last year.   But you never know.   Tomorrow you really do never know.   If you're within six shots of the lead, anything can happen.  
   
 Q.   Any particular part of your game today that was working better than the last couple days or anything?   
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   No, I think I just made the putts that I should have made for the most part.   Some six, seven footers for birdie that I made, but just played pretty good.   Hit a really nice 3‑wood on No. 2 to 8 feet and made eagle there.   Obviously, I got very fortunate on 5, bouncing it off the ShotLink tower and having it go in.   But, it was probably a 4‑under round that turned into a 6‑under with that good break.  
   
 Q.   You talk about the other guys in your group.   You feed off each other.   You just talk to each other or just watch each other?   
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   No, when you see a lot of putts going in and a lot of shots going at the flagsticks, you do.   You subconsciously like, oh, man, this is a piece of cake.  
   
 Q.   Tomorrow sometimes is it easier to come from behind when nobody's looking at you at the start of a Sunday?   
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   For sure.   I obviously like to be a little closer, but there's definitely a 10‑ or 11‑under out here.   A lot of guys have proven that.   Just have to take the attitude of, why not me?   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT