VALERO TEXAS OPEN
March 30, 2014
Daniel Summerhays
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   One of only 14 under‑par rounds on Sunday.   How hard was this place playing?
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   Oh, man, you could hit good shots and end up in a bad spot today.   A lot of patience out there.   But I did, today was my best driving round of the week, which was really important in these conditions.   I made some nice putts, so you have to get a little bit lucky, and I was able to do that out there.

Q.   Obviously a lot to take from this event as we go forward. 
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   For sure.   It's always a relief once you have made enough money to keep your card, keep your job for the next year.   That is a big relief, and professional golf, a lot of these guys are out here trying to win every week.   I do want to win, but I'm in the position right now where I keep my card for another year, and that's a big deal for me this week, and that secures it for me.   It's a blessing, and I feel really grateful. 

Q.   Obviously a really good week for you.   The last three holes are three of the easiest on the golf course.   Did you feel like going in there you gave yourself enough opportunity to get this opportunity?
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   Yeah, for sure.   I played really well.   Early on in the week I hit a lot of good wedge shots, didn't capitalize on all of them.   I still did on a few of them.   But I can't complain.   Any time you're right near the lead and have a chance to win on the back nine means you're doing a lot of things right.   It's hard to be sad about the ones that you missed when you got what you‑‑ I did, I made some nice putts today, got a couple good bounces.   I didn't think 16 was easy today, but I was able to birdie there and just barely hit my putt too hard on 17, and then 18 I was really close to being able to go for it.   I was on a downslope, had to hit over the tree, just a tricky guess in the wind on some of these wedge shots, but overall I'm very, very pleased.

Q.   Overall what do you think is left to do to take that step? 
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   I honestly think you get up‑and‑down at the right time on Sunday.   I missed about a four‑footer on 10.   That probably hurt me.   But like I said, I got some coming down the stretch, too, so I can't complain.   I got a little bit of a‑‑ I was in a bad position on 15, just barely pushed my drive.   The wind kind of switched from down off the right to down off the left, and it went up into the tongue of the bunker and I had no shot.   So I think a little bit more short game and a little bit more luck on the weekend, and I'll hopefully get my win here soon. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT