THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 28, 2014
Daniel Summerhays
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   5‑under,65, even par the first day, what was the difference?   
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   Just made some putts there.   Got on a little streak, birdied 12 through 17.   Birdieing all three on the Bear Trap, that's a fun thing to do.   The greens were perfect this morning.   So the cup started looking really big there on that stretch.   
I hit a few more solid iron shots.   I drove the ball equally well both days.   I think yesterday my strokes gained was probably a shot lost, so I 3‑putted a couple times yesterday and missed another short one.   So that was probably the biggest difference but I did hit a few more solid iron shots today than I did yesterday.   So overall, very pleased.   
   
 Q.   Were the conditions much easier this morning?   
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   I mean, the greens were perfect.   I mean, they were so good.   So that was in our favor, and the wind, at times, came up a little bit but no more than ten, you know, which it can get going 20, 25 out here pretty easy.   
So hopefully it picks up a little bit.   We had a little bit of wind yesterday.   Hopefully it picks up for those guys this afternoon.   But no, it was great conditions for good scores.   
   
 Q.   What's your movie and pizza tonight?  
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   The family is not with me.   They are not with me this week.   They are coming to Tampa and Bay Hill and all that but I'm sure‑‑ we have gotten into Domino's a little bit more now.   Papa John's, was kind of flip‑flopping between the two, but I wish I was home with the kids or they were out here with me for sure.   
   
 Q.   How imperative was it for you to get that momentum and how do you think it helped you in that stretch of the Bear Trap?   
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   Started out with basically a par on No. 10, that's a really long hole, driver and a long shot, so I bogeyed there.   I made a nice little up‑and‑down on 11 and then hit a couple closer ones on 12 and 13.   
So those are two wedge holes that you want to really take advantage of before getting into 14, 15, 16, 17, and I rolled in a few longer putts on those other holes.   So yeah, you need to take advantage of the holes that are a little less challenging.   
   
 Q.   What was different for you on the Bear Trap today, was it just as you were talking about, just hitting better irons?   
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   No, yesterday I birdied 15.   16, I 3‑putted from 17 feet, you know, and then I parred 17.   
So I was even par on the trap yesterday.   I should have been 1‑ or 2‑under.   So I've had historically pretty good success around there.   I still get nervous as heck playing it, but I've been pretty successful.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT