HUMANA CHALLENGE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CLINTON FOUNDATION
January 16, 2014
Daniel Summerhays
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I didn't look at your card, I didn't get to see what you shot.   Tell me the highlights of your round.   
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   I started off on 10, hit a beautiful drive.   I had a little wedge in there, landed four feet past the hole and it really sucked back hard.   
I just missed the putt from off the fringe there.   
But, like the start of the round, I was still hitting good shots, just the birdies weren't quite flowing early on.   Made a pretty nice up and in on, what hole was it?   I'm pulling a blank on my round too.   On 15 for par.   I made a couple birdies early, but on 15 I made a nice up‑and‑down to kind of hang in there.   
Then I could have kind of lost the round a little bit, I think, on 16 and 17.   I didn't birdie 16, I missed about a five foot for birdie and then I didn't get up‑and‑down out of the bunker on 17.   So I went back to 1‑under.   On the round.   And then I hit a beautiful iron shot out of the fairway bunker on 18 to about six feet and that kind of started my run.   So I went on a nice run there.   
   
 Q.   What does a stretch like that mean to you?  
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   Yeah, it's fun to make birdies, and that's one of the fun things about this tournament is that the courses are a little easier, they're in perfect shape, which makes them almost even easier.   But yeah, those stretches are really fun.   The last hole I had a putt to shoot 29 on the side and you don't get that every day.   
So, it was really fun to just kind of continue to hit good shots and good putts and score how you envision yourself scoring.   I think a lot of times my expectations are too high and I get frustrated because you think I should be shooting 8‑under par every round.   But I feel like that it's fun when your expectations matchup with your play.   
   
 Q.   Yeah.   Yeah.   Absolutely.   And obviously this tournament is now known for low scores and the conditions are so good that other guys have an opportunity to score low, so how do you sort of mentally put this one behind you and look to the next couple of days on two different golf courses?  
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   That's exactly what you need to do, you need to stay in birdie mode.   I kind of have the mentality on tournaments like this that you need to make close to 30 birdies throughout the week.   To kind of put yourself there.   And that may be what it takes.   Throw one or two or three bogeys in there and you're looking at 27 something under par, and that may be what it needs to be.   So I made nine today, and you just kind of keep chipping away at it and if you kind of have a slow nine holes, just say, hey, I can make six aside, like I did there.   
So you try and stay patient that way, but definitely you're in birdie mode every round.   It doesn't matter what course, so, yeah, you kind of wipe the slate clean and you say, okay, I'm going to go make my eight birdies tomorrow and you start off the first hole with that mentality and I think that that helps you kind of stay in that present.   
   
 Q.   And the conditions today, it was a little bit surprised when I came out this afternoon, I felt a little bit of wind.   Was that an effect you at all?  
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   There was a little bit.   And I think it just made you think a little bit more, but the greens were really receptive and I thought the pins weren't super easy.   I hit it in good spots, but they were on some pretty good slopes.   But as the slogan says, these guys are good, you know, so, but, yeah, I thought there was a little wind and enough wind to make you think a little bit more out there, so I liked it.  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT