JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 14, 2013
Daniel Summerhays
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   This isn't the way anybody figured this day would be going, but you found yourself on the back nine with a chance.   
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   Yeah, I hit a great drive.   That is the toughest drive on the course, and I put it right where I needed it.   Just hit a couple bad iron shots today, but, overall, I was proud of myself how I battled back making four birdies on that back side.   Yeah, definitely disappointed for sure.   But, again, I'll just continue to grow from this.   I think I'll win soon.  
   
 Q.   I thought mentally you passed a lot of big tests out there.   It's something to at least take forward?  
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   Yeah, for sure.   Golf is so strange.   I really, on that front side, holes 4, 5, 6, I hit really good wedge shots that I thought were going to be stiff.   Two of them spin back off the green into kind of weird lies and the next one airmails the green.   So, you're sitting there, couple bogeys in a row, and you're like I haven't hit a bad shot yet, but that's just golf.   One of these Sundays, it will go anyway.  
   
 Q.   Boy, one heck of a roller coaster ride out there today, wasn't it?   Just talk about the emotions of the day.   
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   You know, I actually felt really good.   I was proud of myself.   I felt really good inside.   My body felt good, mind felt good, swing felt pretty good.   Golf is just a funny game.   
But I was proud of myself for giving myself a chance right up until the last shot, you know?   Little disappointed I didn't have a chance with that plugged lie on the bunker on the last hole.   But, yeah, I'll learn from it, and I'll be back.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the resolve it took for you to bounce back from that front nine stretch and get back in contention in this thing?   
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   Yeah, I mean, that is the funny thing.   I wasn't playing bad.   I was getting some funny bounces out there.   It really was.   Like number 9, I hit a great drive.   It goes down the hill.   I think it's going to go right down to the goalie, and there is a spine there and it ends up in the first cut of the rough on the sidehill, baseball lie.   
On 10, I hit my drive and it's drawing and it should kick left on the fairway, and it kicks right into the bunker.   Then I hit it into the first cut just like by an inch where I can't spin it to that hole, and then I hit a great shot there and it rolls an inch into the first cut again.   
Golf is just a game of inches.   You know, but I felt good out there.   I really did.   Of course my heart rate was going, but I mean I felt good.   I felt like I did a lot of good things.   9‑iron and 6‑iron on 16.   18 were poor shots.   But I'll remember the driver off the deck that I hit on 17, but I'll learn.   I'm excited to continue learning and I'll be back.  
   
 Q.   You take the positives from this more than the negatives?   
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   Yeah, no question.   If you had told me at the beginning of the week that I'd have a chance on the last hole to make birdie and win the golf tournament and to have a chance also to secure my workplace for next year, I would say hand's down that I'd take it immediately.   So I'll just keep plugging away and keep improving.   I'm still young.  
   
 Q.   You told us yesterday that you were going to do it your way.   You were going to interact with the crowd and keep it fun.   You were interacting with the crowd out there.   Was it fun for you today?   
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   Yeah, it was.   It's frustrating when it doesn't go your way, but I still felt like I had a good time.   It was really fun making kind of‑‑ I was three back and I birdied 11, 13, 14, you know, and it was right back in the ballgame, so that was really fun.   But, obviously, a disappointing finish.   
If you had told me 19‑under would have won the golf tournament, I would have laughed at you.   But anyway, yeah.   I felt like I‑‑ hopefully, I made a lot of new friends this week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT