JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 11, 2013
Daniel Summerhays
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Good week at the Greenbrier and you just keep it going. 
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   Yeah, hopefully I can hit my stride here this time of the year.   Yeah, I played really well today.   It was a really solid round, 30 on the front nine, and then I had a lot of good looks and just burned those edges, man, lipped out three times on that back side.   But all in all a good start of the tournament, a lot of golf left.

Q.   Yeah, 15, 17 and even 18, close birdie tries there that didn't go down. 
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   Yeah, I had six feet.   Like I said, I rolled pretty good putts and I three‑putted 17.   I hit it on there in two and three‑putted there.   Definitely left some strokes out there but I can't complain with the ones that I got.

Q.   You made a big jump last week with your finish at the Greenbrier.   Confidence has got to be pretty high right now?
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   Yeah, I feel confident.   Last week was a very important week.   The season is so short this year, and the end is coming really fast.   It took some weight off my shoulders to kind of put me in a position where I don't have to do anything extraordinary to get into the Playoffs, and I feel like I'm in a good spot here and playing well.

Q.   How nice was the weather today?
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   I couldn't‑‑ it feels like it's March right now.   I mean, it's absolutely fantastic.   I've probably said that five or six times today, just enjoying the weather.   It's fantastic.

Q.   So even the best players in the world enjoy the weather, huh?
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   Yeah, you've got to love it. 

Q.   Missed the cut here the last two years.   How pleased are you with a good start here on Thursday?
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   Yeah, really pleased.   This is one of the few tournaments I haven't made the cut at, so that's definitely one of the goals this week.   6‑under today, and I played very well today.   I was very pleased with how I played.   The back side the putts just didn't want to drop for me, just burning all the edges.   But in a really good position for the rest of the week, and I'm excited for it.

Q.   You played well a week ago.   How much is this a continuation of feeling good about where your game is?
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   Yeah, I think so.   I think I'm, again, having the same thoughts, not trying to be too perfect, too exact.   You can't win it on day one.   It's really helping me kind of free up to hit shots and not try and do too much.   Again, that's my personality is to try and be perfect in everything, and just letting things flow and letting it relax a little bit is helping me out. 

Q.   Got to be pretty happy the way things started here today?
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   Yeah, it was a great round.   I came out pretty hot, shot 5‑under on the front nine, and I continued my good play on the back side, it's just amazing what golf does.   Sometimes the putts want to go in, lip in, sometimes they lip out.   But I played probably just as good on the back side as I did on the front side, just those putts didn't want to drop on the back.

Q.   Was that the key, putting, short game?
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   Yeah, I rolled good putts.   That's just golf sometimes.   Sometimes it can bounce a little off while it's rolling or whatnot.   But 6‑under par, I'm very pleased with that start. 

Q.   Looked like you had a couple chances there to get on the top of the leaderboard.   Looking back at it now, are you still happy with how everything went out there?
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   Oh, for sure.   We've got to play four rounds, so you can't win it on day one, but really pleased with the results today, and it'll just put me in a good position for the rest of the week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT