THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 4, 2017
Daniel Summerhays
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I know you're disappointed.  But as you look back on this round, what do you reflect on?
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: Just being in the situation.  I actually felt good out there; I honestly did.
I made a poor swing on No. 3 off the tee.  Got in a tough position.  And the targets are really tough.  I made a double bogey there.
I actually fought pretty well.  Hit a lot of good shots.  A couple bad ones that got me in trouble.  But definitely stings the last hole, a little bit there.  Had a chance to make a birdie from the middle of the fairway on 18 and walk off with a double.
But overall, shaking Jack's hand at the end there, and he's looking me straight in the eyes and giving me encouragement, I'll bounce back really quick.  A handshake and a little something from Jack Nicklaus will prove to be very useful.
Q. You talked earlier in the week, you had not had quite the season that you wanted.  Do you hope or think that this might be a trigger for you to have some better things to come?
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: Yeah, for sure.  I honestly don't feel any different on my game.  I really feel like I -- besides a few missed shots out there, I hit a lot of good, solid shots.
Just it was tougher conditions today and I couldn't quite get the chips close enough and the putts in.  But, honestly, I think it will be a springboard for the rest of my summer.  I have a lot of great golf to play.  Honestly, it kind of helps for points and all that, for sure.  I kind of needed that a little bit.  But I will be back, there's no question.
Q. We talked before your round today about comfort.  And you gave me a very bold answer and said, "I feel very comfortable."  Did you still feel that comfortable out there playing, especially with the lead?
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: I did, even after I lost the lead, then I got it back, and it was kind of back and forth.  I kept saying all the way to 16, 17 -- I mean, before that last delay -- today is my day.  Today is my day.  Today is my day.  And I felt like that.
Walking into 14 having a six, seven-footer down the hill for birdie there, and having 15 coming up next, I still all the way to the end thought it was going to be my day.  It slid pretty good there at the end.
Overall I'm really pleased with my week and I should take a lot of comfort from that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT