WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 2, 2013
Daniel Summerhays
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Good stuff today.   I know you would have loved to have made that 4‑footer at 18.   Still eight birdies, three bogeys, your thoughts on how you played?   
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   Yeah, I played really well.   I drove it good and hit a lot of good iron shots.   It was the best I probably hit my irons as far as proximity to the hole in quite a while.   So I've had a lot of good looks today, rolled in a few putts.   
It was just nice to make‑‑ I mean, any time you make eight birdies, you're rolling pretty good.   So it was fun to be out there, and I had a good time with Vaughn and Jason as well.  
   
 Q.   Yeah, all three of you guys played well today.   Your thoughts on the conditions out there?   Usually in a tournament like this you play late like you did and the greens are going to be chopped up anyway.  
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   Yeah, they were a little chopped up, but we still rolled in some putts.   But the course is beautiful.   I mean, the fairways are, I mean, everything's just immaculate.   Luckily for us today the wind blew the exact same direction on almost every shot, so you weren't guessing and having it swirl through the trees too much.   So I thought conditions were pretty favorable.   It played long because it was pretty wet, but it's a beautiful place.   
   
 Q.   As far as your season is concerned, you found something at Valero a few weeks ago, tied for 7th.   What's been clicking that maybe turned this year around for you?   
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   Yeah, I think just persistence.   I've worked really hard, probably too hard at times, and maybe this week just to have my family back out with me.   I was lonely for two weeks without them.   But I think just the hard work I've put in is starting to pay off.   I think I'm starting to read greens a little bit better, and that's just increasing my odds there.   Just a lot of hard work, and you've got to get lucky too to finish well.  
   
 Q.   I know you're happy with the 5‑under par 67.   Let's not talk about the last.   I know you're not happy with that.   You had eight other birdies.   How good was that round for you today?   
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   Yeah, I hit a lot of really close shots.   I hit two in a row on 8 and 9.   I hit to probably combined two feet and then I had several 4‑ or 5‑footers for birdie.   So it was kind of like throwing darts for me out there today, which was really fun to do.  
   
 Q.   The 67 matches your low round for the season for 2013 on the PGA TOUR.   How would you assess the way you've played so far in this campaign?  
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   Started slow and just picking up steam.   So it was a little frustrating in the beginning of the year coming off a pretty good year last year.   Put in a lot of work though in that last few months, and I think it's starting to pay off.  
   
 Q.   In 2010 you graduated from what was then the Nationwide Tour and currently the Web.com Tour.   You lost your card after your rookie season in '11.   Now you're back here again.   How difficult is it for fans out there watching to understand how hard it is to keep your card and keep your confidence up to play the way you know you can play?   
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   I mean, you're playing against the top .01% in the world in your profession, so every year is a new experience.   You have one year job security and you have to go out and work as hard as everybody else or harder.   
But it's the greatest opportunity that I've had to be out here and play against these guys who have played Quail Hollow 11 straight years.   They come back to their home course every year.   So especially like the rookie year, the second year, those are the toughest years.   Now I feel like you get a little more experience playing the same courses year in and year out, and I think it saves you a shot a round probably and that can add up.  
   
 Q.   Last year you were 92nd on the money list, and that's why you're here again on the PGA TOUR.   How hard is it to balance the grind of playing on the PGA TOUR with the enjoyment of being out here on the world's grandest stage?   
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   Yeah, I think I need to learn how to enjoy it a little bit more.   I get into the grind mode too much.   But I have my family with me a lot, and I think that helps take some of the grind out of it.   I can enjoy it.   I can be out here with my family, with my three boys, and my wife.   I think that really takes some of the grind out for sure because doesn't matter how I play today, my little boys they know daddy's coming home and I'm on daddy duty.  
   
 Q.   Is it important to have balance on and off the golf course for you?   
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   No question.   I wouldn't survive.   It's like Mr.Miyagi and he tells Daniel‑san to have balance in his life, and I'm trying to learn that a little better.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT