AT&T NATIONAL
June 28, 2012
Daniel Summerhays
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Just talk about the conditions this morning and what got you off to a good start this morning.   
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   Well, actually the conditions were perfect.   I mean, there wasn't much wind, the temperature was fine.   It's a very hard golf course, how it's set up.   The hole locations are difficult, the greens are super fast.   They're firm.   The fairways are narrow, and the rough is really long, and the holes are really long, too.   
Actually I got off‑‑ I hit a great drive off the first tee and hit a bad wedge shot and then I two‑putted for par, and then I hit a great hybrid on the next hole and missed that putt.   So actually it wasn't the good start that I actually wanted.   Then I ended up having to get up‑and‑down for bogey on the next two holes, so I was 2‑over through 4.  
But then I started hitting fairways.   That's key out here right now is getting it in the fairway.   If you don't get it in the fairway, you're going to have a really hard time getting on the green.   So I started hitting some fairways.   I birdied No.6, par‑5, hit it on there in two and then birdied 7, the par‑3.   
And then, yeah, just played pretty solid, made a couple bogeys, made a couple birdies on the back.   But overall I drove it pretty well, and I rolled in a couple putts, which helped out.   If you drive it well and putt well out here, you'll hang in there.   But I think that's about all you'll do out here is hang in there because it's a U.S. Open setup from what I've seen and heard and now experienced.  
   
 Q.   With the weather being what it is forecasted to be this weekend, what do you expect the course to do?  
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   What is the forecast?   
   
 Q.   In the 100s and really hot.   
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   My guess is that they'll end up having to keep water on the greens just to save them if it's that hot, so it may end up playing a little easier than if it stayed 80 degrees and they could just kind of let the greens rock out.   But it's going to be tough no matter what.   I'll just have to carry an extra sweat towel out there.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT