MAYAKOBA GOLF CLASSIC
February 24, 2012
Daniel Summerhays
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   I think it was nine birdies to one bogey, is that right, today?   Just kind of go through your round. 
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   It was seven birdies for one bogey.

Q.   What was the key maybe to your round?
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   I drove the ball perfectly, pretty much.   I hit it really solid into the wind.   I mean it's a tough driving golf course.   You know, it's fairway, a little bit of rough and junk he will, you know, and I drove it really well, and then I putted really well.   I got off to a good start.   I birdied number two, made like a 35‑footer there.
And it's funny, you know, you start out Friday, and you got your goals ‑‑ you know, you gotta make the cut, first of all, to have a chance on the weekend, made a couple birdies early on.   I hit it to an inch on the third hole, so I started with a couple birdies, and it kind of just set me at ease there.

Q.   Talk about how tight some of the drives are here.   Conditions yesterday to today, did that change much?   Did that affect the way you played?
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   The wind was a little bit different on the direction, so it changed a couple of the tee shots, what I hit off a couple of the tee boxes, but again, I haven't driven it that well, you know, as I did today.   I've been driving it well, but I mean I couldn't have asked for more from my driver today.

Q.   A long way to go, obviously.   Got two more days, but what's the thought process going into the weekend?
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   I'm just going to keep trying to do the same things.   I'm looking forward to the experience, because I've been on the Nationwide Tour in the last group lots and lots of times; PGA TOUR a couple of times, you know, probably two or three times is all.   So I'm looking forward to learning and just seeing how my emotions react.   And that's the only way to become a champion, so I'm excited for the weekend. 
But I'm playing great, so you know, I feel like I've got a good chance.

Q.   Finally, just 2012, how would you categorize it up to now?   How is your season going so far?   Did you kind of see this coming this week?
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:   Yeah.   I've been playing good for the last six, seven months, you know, and yeah, I really felt it coming on.   You know, really good play, putting things together, putting better and getting up‑and‑downs when I need to.   I chipped in on 17 for par, you know, and just things like that.   My short game's getting better, making things happen when they need to happen, but it's been a good year.   I've played solid. 
I've only gotten into three events so far, so that's been tough.   Last year I got into everything because my number was good, and this year I've been on the outside looking in.   So that's been a little frustrating not getting the starts that I've wanted, but I mean I've just stayed patient and positive, and my game's good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT