NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL INVITATIONAL
July 14, 2007
Daniel Summerhays
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  We'd like to welcome in our co-leader, Daniel Summerhays, at 4-under par, 209.  Daniel, 1-under par, 72 today.  It was a roller coaster ride.  If we can just get some comments.   
 DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:  Yeah.  First of all, I'm happy to be sitting down right now and out of that wind and off of those greens.  You know, I started out ripping a drive off 1.  Thought I hit a really good pitch shot, but it checked up a little more.   
 Sometimes you don't know how firm the greens are going to be.  When the wind blows like that they can dry out really fast.  You just never know which green is firm and which one is not.  So No. 1 I left it about 40 feet short and hit a lag putt.   
 No. 2 I ripped a drive and hit a full cut 7-iron into that back flag.  Made about a 10-footer for birdie there.   
 Then I hit a really good 7-iron into No.4.  Just barely missed that eagle putt.  Tapped in for birdie.   
 No. 8 was where I made my bogey.  I hit a really good shot and hit a 9-iron from about like 190, you know.  You just never know how much the wind is going to carry it.   
 It landed maybe a yard short of being pretty good.  Because if it lands on that green it'll release a good 25 feet, so I ended up not hitting a very good putt there.  Made bogey.   
 Made a good par on 9.  And then 10 I hit a really good drive, but the wind, it's funny, you think it's going to take it really hard but if you hit it solid it doesn't take it much.  Just barely caught the right edge of that bunker.   
 And then I hit it into the green side of that bunker and chunked out there to about 25 feet.  Who knows what happened there.  I think honestly the wind blew really hard right as I was about to take it back, so it kind of got my mind off the putt and I left it about six feet short.  Hit a good putt but the wind blew it out of the hole.  Made double bogey.   
 Made a good up and down on 11.  12 I killed a drive and hit a nice cut 5-iron up against the wind to about 30 feet and 2-putted there for birdie.   
 Made a good save on 13.  You know, it's just you had to make so many saves out there because you couldn't keep it on the green on some of those holes.  If it was downwind it would just trickle over the back and then it's no bargain on the chip.   
 14 I hit my drive to the right.  Hit a good shot out of there just to the left of the green and didn't hit a very good par putt from about eight feet.  Just wasn't as confident or as aggressive with my lines and just kind of more wishing it in the holes than I would like to, but that's something I'll be ready for tomorrow.   
 15, just hit it out there on the fairway.  Had a 9-iron, landed it, you know, just short of the middle of the green and it goes over.  That green is really, really hard.  And then the chip, you just have to land it perfect to stop it close to the hole because it bounces back down the hill.  Hit it past it about 12, 15 feet, missed that and made bogey.   
 16 was interesting because the wind should have been right it left and it came straight into your face off the tee.  Hit a good 3-wood.  I got fortunate and landed a little past the flag but it came off that bank to about six inches.  So I made birdie there.   
 Hit an about 5-iron on 17.  Made par.  And then 18 another par, so overall I'm pretty pleased with how I hung in there, because it's not easy out there.   
 THE MODERATOR:  How important was that -- obviously it was very important -- but to make at that birdie on 16 after having two straight bogeys.   
 DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:  It's kind of funny.  If you get to 4-under and then you end up at 1-under it's kind of bittersweet.  But if you get back to even and then you make a birdie to get back to 1-under it's like all right, I got something back.  So that was good.   
 My putting wasn't as good today, so it's nice to stuff one in there close and didn't have to think about it.   
 THE MODERATOR:  I know you don't want to think ahead but an amateur has never won on the Nationwide Tour.  But Jamie Lovemark finished in a playoff just a few weeks ago.  Have you had any conversations with Jamie this week?   
 DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:  I haven't.  I just told him congrats on playing so well.  I think what he did kind of opens our eyes.  Hey, you know, what, if we stick to our game we can go win these tournaments.  We have to play really, really good, but we have the game to do it.   
 So I'm excited to go out tomorrow and, you know, try and be aggressive, hit the driver hard, you know, and be more confident with my putts out there instead of trying to wish or will them in.   
 THE MODERATOR:  We typically have shootouts on Sunday.  I don't think we'll have that this week.  Will you enter the final round a number in mind, our will you just go out and play your game.   
 DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:  I'll just go out.  Today at the start of the morning there were a couple guys who were already 4- or 5-under par, but I think they came back.  I don't know what the low score of the day was.   
 THE MODERATOR:  68.   
 DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:  Who was that?   
 THE MODERATOR:  Kyle Thompson.   
 DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:  Yeah.  Was he a little bit earlier in the day?  You just never know.  Somebody who tees off in the morning or whatever, if the wind doesn't blow they could take it really deep and post a number.   
 But I'll just go out and you just have to kind of feel it.  You have to -- even if the wind is blowing like this sometimes you can shoot 6-under.  So who knows?  You just have to go out and hit shots and putts can go in from anywhere, so...   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:  No.  You know, yesterday we went and watched a movie.  Went and saw Ratatouille.  That was pretty fun.  We'll do something like that tonight.  Kind of relax and sleep in a little bit tomorrow.  Get some juice back.   
 It's just another round of golf, but I'm excited to, you know, all this year my goal has been to get into those final groups to see how to compete that last round.  So it's one more opportunity to do that.   
 Last weekend I won up there an amateur tournament.  I hadn't played too well the previous tournaments before that the final round.  Then I finally broke through and made some great putts the last round and won the tournament.  So I think I'm going to try and do the same thing:  Go out and really be confident and aggressive.   
 So I mean, I usually sleep like a rock.  I'll get it cold in that room and bundle up in the covers and it'll all be good.   
  
  Q.  Was there any point in the round where you kind of had to refocus when the course was really starting to wear on you?   
 DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:  After the double bogey on 10 I was a little bit, not flustered, but just, you know, it's like when you give them back on that course with the wind they're really tough to get back.   
 But I said, you know what, I've hit almost every single shot solid, so why not keep making good, aggressive swings.   
 At the same time, if you get frustrated after making double bogey -- I think I was 6-under for the tournament and I went back to 4.  Well, I'm still only one or two shots out of lead.  It's hard to get frustrated and lose control, so I just regrouped and held it together.   
  
  Q.  Do you kind of play out here with the mindset that you're going to make a couple bogeys but you're going to have some chances as well to make birdies to get them back?   
 DANIEL SUMMERHAYS:  You know, the first round I made seven birdies and four bogeys.  Usually I don't make two bogeys.  Yesterday I made three birdies and one bogey.  So I think Jason Allred only had two bogeys through the first two rounds, so you never go out there thinking, Oh, I can make some bogeys because I'll get them back with birdies.   
 The birdies are to be had.  The par 5s, if you can the hit a good drive and a good second shot they're a good reward hole.  So if you hit good solid shots you'll get a few birdies out there.   
 THE MODERATOR:  All right.  You got it.  Good luck tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT