TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
August 6, 2016
Daniel Summerhays
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. It was a heck of a putt there at 18.
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: Yeah, you know, I played 17 almost flawless holes today.  I really played well.  My only bogey was on 10, and I got a little three-footer that was silting in a ball mark, and I couldn't quite fix it how I wanted, just kind of hopped out of there, and then on 18 I was feeling really good.  I was so excited to hit that drive, and I teed it up a little higher, maybe scooted a little further away from it, tilted back a little bit more, just wanted to rip one, and got a little ahead of myself and pulled it left, hit the tree, kicked even further left into just death, and I couldn't even get a sand wedge out of there.  I took a full lash with a sand wedge, and then I was in even a worse lie on the next one.
Usually there's no lie that my 7-wood can't handle, but that one, it couldn't handle that one, and it bounced out of the bunker on top of the ridge into another thick lie, and I was very fortunate to walk away with bogey there.
Q. I think the tee time was fortunate, too, because the winds are going to pick up here, and you're putting well, too.
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: Yeah, I felt like it was nice to get off.  Nobody had played on the greens our very first nine.  Really played solid.  I'm very happy with my performance today.  Just hopefully the leaders don't get too far away from me.  But looking forward to tomorrow and having another chance at winning.
Q. Talk about what happened at 10.
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: Yeah, I finally hit a great drive there, and I had a pitching wedge in, and just didn't quite get my alignment quite right, and misjudged the wind a little bit.  Ended up, still was okay, a little to the right there, and had about a three-footer for par, and there was a ball mark, couldn't quite -- I fixed it, but I couldn't quite get my ball to sit how I wanted, and it just was sitting down, a little sandy, and it just hopped out of there left, so I made bogey there.  But overall I played 17 really solid holes.  I felt like I was hitting it good.  I was rolling a lot of putts really well.  The ones that I didn't make were just barely missing.  I feel really happy.
18 I think I just got a little overzealous.  I wanted to just pound that drive, maybe keep it up with Brooks or something, and just got a little ahead of it and just pulled it, and then it hit the tree and kicked even further left, and then it took me a long time it seemed like to get to the green, thick lie after thick lie, and was very fortunate to make bogey.
Q. With all the birdies that you had today, that was really a good bogey at 18.
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: Yeah, seven birdies, two bogeys.  Feeling really happy about the round.  Hopefully I can keep pace tomorrow and get the birdies flowing again, and I think the golf course is playing great.  They've done a great job with it.  I like the changes.  I think it's sharper.  It's a lot nicer, and looking forward to tomorrow.
Q. Did the tee time this morning help you, as well, with the green conditions and so forth?
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: I think so.  Any time you can putt on absolutely perfect, fresh greens, it's always an advantage, so I felt really good about that.  The wind picked up a little bit in the middle, but it was -- I mean, it was perfect conditions.
Q. Your career, certainly your season, is a steady progression.  You've got to be confident going into tomorrow.
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: Yeah, I am.  I'm excited.  I felt good out there.  Even though the last hole got away from me a little bit, I felt great.  Standing over that tee shot, I was excited.  I was ready to just pump one down the middle there and just didn't hit it how I needed to.  But I am confident and I'm excited for another crack at it tomorrow.
Q. That was an interesting 5 you made there at the last.  I'm glad we're able to sit here and joke about it because there really wasn't a whole lot going your way after a really good birdie at 16, a really good back nine going until a little bit of a hiccup there on 18.  What happened?
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: Yeah, you know, honestly I think I was feeling so good that I felt that little help of wind on the last one, I teed it up a little higher, put it a little further up in my stance.  I was ready to just crush that one.  I got a little overzealous with it, pulled it, hit the tree, kicked even further left into where I was struggling from the word go to get that.  Feeling really good about 5.
Q. Unfortunately I didn't have a whole lot of faith in you making that long putt on the 18th, but you did make it.  Talk about that.
DANIEL SUMMERHAYS: You never count me out on the greens.  I mean, obviously you're always surprised to make a 45-footer, but I'm playing really well.  I'm really excited for tomorrow.  I played basically 17 really, really solid holes.  I was never out of position really, and actually the putts that I didn't make today were hanging on the edge, so I'm really looking forward to tomorrow and giving it a crack again.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT