ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
February 7, 2011
Gary Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		   THE MODERATOR: We have with us now Maryland head basketball coach Gary Williams. Coach, if you could a few comments about your team, then we'll open it up for questions. 
 COACH WILLIAMS: Well, we had a week where we won one, lost one. We think we're still improving. I like the way we played in our last game in terms of our effort, in terms of sharing the basketball. Hopefully that will continue. 
 This time of year, we have a little different situation in that we don't play a league game till Boston College on Saturday. Hopefully we can use this time to be a better basketball team. So we'll see what happens. 

 Q. I've been asking coaches a loaded question. In view of a couple players leaving this week the ACC mid-season, is there a delicate balance you have to deal with with kids with people outside the program tugging them one side or the other telling them they should be playing more? Is that a problem or something you handle easily? 
 COACH WILLIAMS: It can be a problem. Everybody wants their player, whether it's parents or somebody connected to the kid, to be very successful. If they're not, in other words, they might be being successful at a certain level, but not maybe the expectation level. So when that takes place, those things can happen. 
 I don't think any coach is secure in that area anymore. I think those things can happen. It's just part of the way the whole system evolves now, that those things do take place. I don't think that should be necessarily a reflection on any coach. Those things can happen. 
 Once as a coach if you think that's too bad, they must have really screwed that up, that's not true, because that can happen in any coaching situation.

 Q. Did you ever have a situation where you were in danger, lost a kid mid-season?
 COACH WILLIAMS: I don't think so. But, like I said, who knows. It could be at anyplace. That has no reflection, in my mind, on any program or anything. It's just things are a little different now, that's all. 
 THE MODERATOR: Coach, thanks for taking the time to be with us today. We'll hear from you the same time next week. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT