BAYLOR UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 15, 2018
Charlie Brewer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Duke - 40, Baylor - 27
Q. What was the problem today?
CHARLIE BREWER: Penalties.  Penalties, turnovers, really just shot ourselves in the foot.  Got in third and long it felt like almost every possession.  It's hard to win when you do that.
Q. Did you see this coming at all?
CHARLIE BREWER: I expected us to come out and play a lot better than that, that's for sure.  But we just have to correct it and move on to the next one.  There is nothing we can do now.
Q. There was the touchdown you led drive, and then the blocked touchdown punt, and they scored, and then the next series Jalan came in.  I'm not sure if it was part of the rotation or not, but was that a letdown for you not to come back in the game?
CHARLIE BREWER: Yeah, I mean, it's out of my control.  So that's not my decision.  I can just control what I can control.  That's it.
Q. How solid was that defense now that you've faced them and saw them?  You've got a bloody lip, you've got bruises everywhere.
CHARLIE BREWER: I mean, they're obviously a good defense.  Caused a lot of pressure, and didn't allow many big plays at all.  But I think we had a lot to do with the lack of success today.  Like I said, penalties and turnovers and you name it.  We did just about everything to shoot ourselves in the foot today.
Q. Was it the drop -- were the drop passes frustrating for you at all?
CHARLIE BREWER: You know, part of that is my fault.
Q. How do you guys bounce back from this?  You don't have much time?
CHARLIE BREWER: Win next week.  Come out and get a win next week.
Q. The mistakes you were talking about, did you feel like it was more what you guys were doing or were they doing anything that was causing you to make some of those?
CHARLIE BREWER: They didn't do anything special.  Got to give credit to them.  They were a good defense, good team, played really well on special teams too.  You know, I think we had a lot to do with the lack of plays.
Q. How difficult, Charlie, is it to throw the ball as much as you have to right now if you cannot run the ball at least somewhat efficiently?
CHARLIE BREWER: Yeah, it would be good if we got our running game going a little bit.  But, you know, we've just got to find a way, whether it's throwing or running.  Just got to kind of find a way.
Q. What is the key in that?  You say find a way.  What do you think is not happening or what is breaking down that's not allowing guys to run?
CHARLIE BREWER: Well, we had a lot of penalties and ended up on 3rd and long.  It's pretty hard to win when you're in 3rd and long every possession.
Q. How did you approach that second half?  I mean, maybe what was the message at halftime?
CHARLIE BREWER: Well, we've got to come out and play better than we did in the first half and fully expect to come out and get the win.  Obviously, that didn't happen.  So we've just got to regroup and get on to the next week.
Q. After the blocked punt, are you thinking this is happening, that kind of thing?
CHARLIE BREWER: Yeah, I had complete trust in our team when we're down 23-0 that we can come back.  Unfortunately, it didn't happen.  But, you know, just got to move on to the next week.
Q. Did you guys ever sense there was a spiralling effect in the first half?  You had the first possession, had things, unfortunately, Christoph gets the holding penalty and the field goal is hooked, and then you had the fumble on the next possession.  What was it like on the sidelines trying to just keep things together as this was starting to unravel in front of you like it was?
CHARLIE BREWER: You know, I didn't really think there was a negative attitude on the sideline.  I just think that we kept going out there and shooting ourselves in the foot.  That kind of starts with me.  I need to do a better job getting our guys going and making more plays.
Q. You've seen it in camp, but just what Tyquan can give you with the jump balls and stuff.  The way he stepped in today for Denzel with him out?
CHARLIE BREWER: Yeah, he's a good player.  He can jump through the roof like you all saw on a few of those plays today.  He'll be a good spark for the rest of the season.
Q. Is he a guy you have a lot of trust and confidence in, I guess?
CHARLIE BREWER: Yes.  He's a great player.  I've known that all along since he first got here.
Q. This was talked about a game where you guys were saying what do we find out about ourselves in something like this?  This is a pretty solid program over there in the SEC, and you guys are trying to get to that.  What do you take from this despite the outcome?
CHARLIE BREWER: I think what we take is in order to beat a good team, you can't get a ton of penalties.  You can't turn the ball over.  You can't go three-and-out.  You know, you do those three things and it's going to be harder to win.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT