BAYLOR UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 18, 2017
Charlie Brewer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
-->
Iowa State - 23, Baylor - 13   
 Q.  (No microphone) you look back at that, is that growing up pains or not understanding the value of the football.  
CHARLIE BREWER: It's being careless with the football.  We need to find a way to eliminate that to score touchdowns.   
 Q.  You made plays again today, scrambling and stuff.  Is that something that's always been part of your game?  
CHARLIE BREWER: Yeah, I think so.  Just trying to create something.  Obviously (no microphone).   
 Q.  Charlie, you had such success, like Travis, and now y'all didn't win a game at home.  How do you mentally deal with that?  
CHARLIE BREWER: It stinks.  We just got to get ready for TCU.   
 Q.  Knowing how well the offense played, does that make the turnovers late more frustrating?  
CHARLIE BREWER: Yeah, we just, similar to last week, left a lot out there.   
 Q.  When you talk about, when she asked a question about (no microphone), and you say it stinks, describe that, other than the obvious.  You're not used to that.  Wee talked about it last week, how much this is starting to bother you a little bit.  
CHARLIE BREWER: Yeah.  Just frustrating for everybody.  And for me, you know, I like to win.  Obviously, everyone does.  And I need to find a way as the quarterback, leader of the football team, to help put us in better positions, maybe.   
 Q.  What are the good things that you can take out of this?  JaMycal running well (no microphone).  What are some of the positives?  
CHARLIE BREWER: That we're starting to get more first downs, but I just think we're really struggling once we get inside the 30- or 20-yard line.  So we need to fix that.  Can't fix that, it doesn't really matter what we're doing before that.   
 Q.  Coach Ruhle says you're getting better, flashes here and there.  Do you see that in practice during the week?  Do you see this team, despite the record and the losses, getting better?  
CHARLIE BREWER: Yes, definitely.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT