BAYLOR UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 21, 2017
Charlie Brewer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








West Virginia - 38, Baylor - 36
Q. Charlie, your coach said he told you to be ready because Zach had been sick.  Were you ready when you came in there?  Did you feel like you were ready?
CHARLIE BREWER: Yeah, every week I tried to be as ready as possible.  You never know when it's my time to step in and my number was called tonight, and I thought the offensive line battled incredibly well and helped us get back in it.
Q. What was working for you, and at what point did you say, hey, we can do this?
CHARLIE BREWER: I mean, we just kind of all got together, and you know, said let's come back.  It starts with the offensive line.  They battled all night.  They reel put us in the position where we were.
Q. Did you feel like the on-side kick kind of gave you guys a chance too?
CHARLIE BREWER: Yeah, we got the ball back quick.  Great kick by our kicker.
Q. Knowing you, you're looking at as much the fact that you guys didn't tie it and go overtime as you are all the things you did that brought it back in the game.  Is that the mentality of Charlie Brewer?
CHARLIE BREWER: Yeah, everybody wants a win.  You know, it's disappointing.  You know, it's not okay to come up short like that.  We need to regroup, and have the best week of practice we've had so far.
Q. You've had some early snaps this year.  There was a lot of talk about did you waste a couple plays in your red-shirt and now you have a chance to go full-throttle.  What do those plays mean to you?
CHARLIE BREWER: I thought they were helpful.  I trust Coach Rhule 100% of what he was doing.  100% I'm a team player whether I'm on the field or on the sideline.
Q. Talk about what Trestan was able to do tonight?  He hasn't really had a breakout night like that?
CHARLIE BREWER: Yeah, I just knew it was a matter of time.  He's an incredible athlete and worked really hard.  Not surprised he did that tonight.
Q. You want to start against Texas?
CHARLIE BREWER: Of course.  I'd probably think you're crazy if someone says they don't want to start.  Of course I do.  That's Coach Rhule, and I trust him 100%.
Q. Was Trestan an option on that play that he scored on, the pass?  Was that always the play or was that just what was open?  The pass down the sideline?
CHARLIE BREWER: Yeah, he was my second guy I was reading.  And I just saw him above the sideline and I got him the ball and he did the rest.
Q. What happened on the two-point conversion?  What didn't go right?
CHARLIE BREWER: I guess just about everything.  We thought we had to get the play to convert.  I need to do a better job of getting rid of the ball in that situation.
Q. Charlie, first home game, obviously, for you to play at McLane.  You walked off the field, I know, disappointed.  But standing ovation from the crowd.  Just kind of take us through what it was like to play at McLane?
CHARLIE BREWER: Oh, it's awesome.  Dreamed of this for a while.  You know, our fans are awesome.  They're the best of the best.  We just need to, you know, help them out and get a win for them.
Q. Charlie, what's it like for you on the possibility of facing Sam again, and reuniting that Lake Travis and Austin Westlake rivalry?
CHARLIE BREWER: I'm not really worried about that.  I'm more focused on my team and what we can do to get better each day by next Saturday.
Q. What is it when you have an ability to extend the play, athleticism, quickness, whatever it might be?  What are you thinking, and is it just instinctive rather than anything else?
CHARLIE BREWER: I mean, I'm just thinking try to help my team make the play.  Like I said though, without the offensive line I can't do any of that.  They deserve all the credit tonight.
Q. I know that you're upset because you lost, but are you proud of what you did?
CHARLIE BREWER: Yeah, I thought we did some good things.  Battled back, showed some mental toughness on our side, but we need to take the next step and be able to finish a game.
Q. How has this season been for you waiting for your opportunity?
CHARLIE BREWER: You know, it's been different being the back-up.  But I'm a team player, so I feel like every week I've come out with 100% effort in practice, and my attitude has been good.  I've just been a team player.
Q. Coach Rhule has said that you and Zach both spend a lot of time together.  That you're both helping each other a lot.  Did he say anything to you today?
CHARLIE BREWER: Yeah, Zach's one of my best friends.  You know, when he's in there, I'm rooting for him.  And when I'm out there, he's rooting for me.  You know, I thought he did great things tonight.
Q. So he had to then sick this afternoon?
CHARLIE BREWER: I'm not really sure.
Q. What's next?  I know you've got a game week, and who knows, the competition ramps it up this week, what do you expect this week?
CHARLIE BREWER: I expect for us to amp it up in practice and just focus in on the little things and correct some stuff.
Q. Have you talked to your dad yet?
CHARLIE BREWER: No.
Q. I'm assuming he was in the stands?
CHARLIE BREWER: Yes.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT