ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 14, 2013
Leonard Hamilton
Michael Snaer
Okaro White
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Florida State: 73
  Clemson: 69 
  
THE MODERATOR:   If we have any questions for Michael or Okaro, we can begin with those.   
   
 Q.   Michael, how does it feel to win a game in the final seconds without hitting a buzzer beater?  
MICHAEL SNAER:   I guess it feels good that we could have a big enough lead that we didn't need an amazing shot just to win the game.   I didn't want that to come to that, if it did I would be ready but I didn't want it to come to that.   
   
 Q.   This is the first time that both you two and Ian Miller and Terrance Shannon have all been on the court at the same time.   How did it feel to have the "big four" back together again and the flow you had on the court?   
OKARO WHITE:   Before the season we had a couple of meetings that that's what we were trying to do, have the "Big Four" and have the productivity come out of us four but it got halted by injuries and stuff so it was good having guys we have been with for years out on the floor and trying to win the game for each other.   
THE MODERATOR:   Guys, you can head back.   
COACH HAMILTON:   First half I thought that we were overly anxious, I thought we didn't execute well the first half.   Our game plan was to move the ball and see whether or not we could let their defense make a mistake and take advantage of it.   We had a hard time.   We were all hyped up, trying to thread the needle, took quicker shots and I attribute that to the guys, having so many guys who had not been in this situation before, but we were fortunate to only be down 5 at the half.   
The second half I thought we executed much better, I thought our defense got the stops we needed, the rebounds we had, I thought we played excellent basketball there until the last 2 minutes of the game.   Then it was almost like the fouling of the 3‑point jump shooters, missing dunks, going long when you're supposed to be cutting toward the basketball, it's like we were trying to invent ways to give the game back to Clemson, just thank goodness they didn't take it.   I thought up to that point our guys had played a very good second half.   Unfortunately, we will be talking about the last couple of minutes and it will probably overshadow how well Carl played and Terrence giving us a lift and Devin gave us good leadership on the floor but defensively we played as well there in stretches as well as we played all year.   
   
 Q.   Coach, how big is it having Terrence back as far as the toughness of your front line?   Teams like, a couple times this year some of the physicality in the league got to you but tonight‑‑ Clemson is a physical team but it felt like it was different, especially in the second half.   
COACH HAMILTON:   There is no doubt that we have been void of the experience that Terrence brings to our team.   I think that's going to help us where the future is concerned because our youngsters got some valuable experience and this will accelerate their progress.   
Having Terrence back in gave us a guy who has been in the wars, been in the system, understood‑‑ has a better understanding of the way you have to play in the ACC in order to be successful, so I was glad to get his contribution tonight.   
   
 Q.   That was the first time that you had your big four guys returning this season together, was that the team that you envisioned heading into the season?   
COACH HAMILTON:   I didn't know exactly what to expect for the upcoming season, when you have seven first‑year players you have to give those guys an opportunity to earn their rightful place in the rotation.   I did feel, though, that that core of guys would be able to give us the leadership, set the example in practice, just the conversation that upper classmen normally give to the incoming‑‑ the new players, newcomers just to set the tone and we have been void of that because Terrence was injured and Ian has been riding a bicycle and shooting free‑throws in practice and it's hard to be a leader when you're not actively participating.   
So it's been somewhat of a challenge but I do believe through all of that, though, the fact that we have had to go through the season without the most experienced guys being an integral part of the system has given Michael Ojo and our three freshman guards valuable minutes.   We would will have to have been more successful this year but we still have opportunities.   We can't cry over that.   Every once in a while you have those things‑‑ I call 'em basketball demons, that raise their ugly heads and you got to fight through it.   
I think we've grown up and I think we're going to be better as a result of it but it is nice that we were able to put experienced guys out there on the floor.   Didn't look like it the last two minutes, but before that, we were playing smart and this is not the way we have been accustomed to playing.   
   
 Q.   Looking to North Carolina how did you want to play this team, run or slow the game down?   
COACH HAMILTON:   We going to play the way we always play, play within ourselves and if you have an opportunity to run you run, if it's not there, half‑court offense.   That's the way we always play, we're not going to change, North Carolina is not going to change, they're who they are, they have a system that they are comfortable with, we are Florida State and we run when we have an opportunity and try to execute if we don't have a break, run the offense.   Play good defense and take care of the ball.   One thing's for sure, we need to play a whole lot smarter than we played the last two minutes tonight.   That's a given.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT