U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 26, 2018
Stewart Hagestad
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. All right.  You got right into this one.  Won the first three holes; set the tone.
STEWART HAGESTAD: Yep.
Q. How did you do it?
STEWART HAGESTAD: I mean, I made a nice eight-footer for birdie on 1; he put in in the right bunker on 2, and then I hit the green -- I tried not to, but I did.  Like not -- sarcasm won't translate.
Two-putt, and then made a nice putt like 25 feet on 3.  Yeah, it was off to a great start.  He didn't play his best on the front.  When you kind of combine that with making some putts early, I got off to an early lead.
Q. Then you had a little bit of a lull there toward the end of the front nine.
STEWART HAGESTAD: Yeah, on 6 I basically -- he had like a probably 15-, 18-footer for par, so from just left of the green all I had to do was make par to presumably win the hole.
I dumped it on and three-putted and missed like a three, four-footer.  It was very messy.  That changes the complexity of the match, you know, of being 3-up going into a reachable par-5 --  sorry, being 4-up going into a reachable par-5 and instead of only 3.
And then I blew it left.  He hit the fairway and ended up making birdie and I didn't.
Oh, gosh, and then we get to 8.  I hit big ole drive up there and three-putted; missed like a four-footer for par.
Yeah, I did the same thing yesterday.  I need to cut down on the silly mistakes, because I was lucky to obviously -- fortunate to more on, but the further you go everyone is really good.  You can't do stuff like that.
Q. So you steadied yourself on 9 with a par to win that hole.
STEWART HAGESTAD: Yeah, hit a nice drive.  Again, missed the green, hit a nice one up there to about 15 feet.
10 -  we pushed 10?  We pushed 10.
Pushed 11.
Q. Pushed 12.
STEWART HAGESTAD: Pushed 13.  I hit two good shots on 13.  He missed an eight-footer.  I hit a great lag putt up there both on 12 and 13.
Q. Your caddie said you found your rhythm on the back.
STEWART HAGESTAD: Just started hitting shots -- yeah, I guess that's right.  Kind of a better rhythm.  Just started hitting it just a fraction better.  Just enough to make it a little more stress-free for myself.
On 16th hit one in there real close.
On 14 and 15 he had like six-, eight-footers for par.  I had 18-, 20-footers, but like knowing he has those for par, instead of giving him some speed I kind of lagged it in.  That was the first time I felt like I could -- because I knew he was going to make the three-footer or whatever it was.  It afforded me to hit it with a little more pace and hit my line and ended up going in.
Q. Did you know much about him at all coming into the match?
STEWART HAGESTAD: Nope.  Nope.
Q. He took 12 years off from competitive golf.
STEWART HAGESTAD: No way.
Q. And is just getting back into it.
STEWART HAGESTAD: He did something really cool.  He was on 13, and I said this to both him and his son.  We were kind of approaching the green he looked over at his son.  At the time he was 2-down.  His sone kind of smiled at him and smiled back.  It was a really cool -- as a father, he was just so thrilled that his son was there.
A day will come I'm sure when I have a similar type of scenario.  It was just a kind of -- humbling is not the right word, but it was a very cool moment kind of aside from the competitiveness of the match.
Q. Into the semifinals.  I'm sure you're very excited.  Do you feel like you have a little bit of an advantage over the rest of the field?  They haven't been there before.
STEWART HAGESTAD: Yeah, I saw that last night that I was the only one that had gotten to quarters before.  I again, I mean, I guess.  I'm not going to pretend I'm not nervous because I am.
I've been fortunate to have played in some situations where I've felt those nerves and know what my tendencies are under pressure.
You know, hopefully we'll go through our routine and work on some tough and try and get ready for this afternoon.  I'm trying not really change anything and stick to my game plan and stick to what I know best.
You know, like I said, hopefully kind of maintain that rhythm from this morning.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT