U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 25, 2018
Stewart Hagestad
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








An interview with:
STEWART HAGESTAD
Q. So second time for you to the quarterfinals.  I know the one time ended in a title, but how great is it to even be in the quarterfinal round?
STEWART HAGESTAD: Yeah, I remember it was either Sammy Schmitz or someone, but they said that getting through the first day is good, but to make it through the second day, that is where a lot of cool things can happen with exemptions and just maybe a little bit more attention as far as the event or prestige or whatever.
Like saying that I got to the quarterfinals would've been a lot better than the round of 16 back at the U.S. Am a month and a half ago.  So, yeah, no, it's great.  I played two really, really strong seniors today and I'm happy to be moving on.
Q. On this one you got up early and birdied the first two holes.  Tell me how you did that.
STEWART HAGESTAD: Well, the first hole was a concession.  I hit the green in two; he hit it in the left bunker.  He went over and just ended up being a concession.
Q. How long was that putt?  Lengthy?
STEWART HAGESTAD: It was a pretty stress-free 18-footer, 15-, 18-footer.
Q. Yeah.
STEWART HAGESTAD: It certainly wasn't a tap-in, but if I had to lag it up there I would feel capable in my abilities.
And then the 2nd hole he hit it left in the rough, in the trees, and I hit the fairway.  I hit a really nice gap wedge in there probably ten, twelve feet.  He hit in the bunker.  He actually had an awesome bunker shot to about ten feet and rolled it in.
So, yeah, two good birdies to start.
Q. And then you birdie 5 to really put the hammer down.
STEWART HAGESTAD: Same thing.  I hit first and hit a really nice one in there.  I think I hit 9-iron to maybe four feet.
He was in the left bunker and hit an awesome shot to like eight feet and missed it to kind of leave the door open.  I was able to capitalize on it.
Q. Then you pretty much were in control the rest of the way.  Unless you feel differently.
STEWART HAGESTAD: Yeah, the scorecard certainly doesn't show it, because even though I lost 7, which should benefit me just because of my length, being able to reach it in two, I made a total mess of the hole.
Again, the scorecard doesn't show it, but missing fairways on 8 and 9 kind of frustrated me a little.  I've got a couple things to work on at the range here in a minute.
I came away with two halves but it was ugly, so we'll take the halves and move on.  After that I kind of righted the ship and we were in good shape.
Q. Looks like tomorrow you're going to play a guy named Rusty Mosley, who I don't know if anyone has heard too much about.  I know he went to Florida State and played there.  Do you know anything about him?
STEWART HAGESTAD: No, no.  I mean, Florida State has got a great program.  I know he beat Darren in the first round by concession.  Other than that, I don't know anything.
Q. You talked about cleaning up a few things to get ready for tomorrow.  What kind of things will you work on?
STEWART HAGESTAD: I was just leaking a couple shots out to the right.  Which is fine.  I would rather it leak out to the right versus left.  I think it's just a by-product of a long week and your body begins to get tired.
Today was a little hotter.  Anyone that's played in the south or any kind of heat and humidity knows, especially under the gun when you're kind of sweating.  I have very sweaty hands.  People that have that issue can understand.
I think it was a by-product of that.  I want to tighten it up a little.  What I did was really cool getting to the quarters, but it only gets tougher from here on out with nerves, adrenaline, so on, so forth.
Just want to be as sharp as I can going into the next couple days -- at least tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT