U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2018
Stewart Hagestad
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Let's start off with the eagle on 4.  How did you do it?  Was it playing 303?
STEWART HAGESTAD: Yeah, it was about that 303, 305, somewhere in there.  I hit a great drive.  It must've gotten a left bounce, because I thought it was going to be short in the right bunker.  He laid up; he hit a wedge in there about 15 feet and missed it.
I probably had eight, ten feet kind of going right up the hill and he just said, Pick it up.  So I think it's one of those things in match play where like on the card it may not tell the whole story.
But, yeah, I hit a real nice one out there.
Q. Okay.  And then he cut into the lead a little but you made birdies on 6 and 8.
STEWART HAGESTAD: Yeah, I feel like I did -- as much as it wasn't pretty, I feel like I kind of gave him two holes.  Neither one of us had our best stuff, but, yeah, he hit a great wedge shot in there on whatever hole it was, 5, and then I made a nice putt on 6.
I don't know.  I want to sit here and get all technical, but I hit some good shots and had a couple more good ones than he did.  Yeah, I don't know.  That's really all it is.  Yeah.
Q. How far was the putt on 6?
STEWART HAGESTAD: Eight feet, ten feet.  He went first; he missed about a 12-footer.  Trusted Billy; rolled right in there.
Q. What did you hit into 8 and how far did you have?
STEWART HAGESTAD: I had 7-iron into 8.  That was -- so he went first, and kind of going off what we did yesterday where we came up a little short, we kind of had like the same number.
We kind of talked about what had happened and it was like the same wind, so just played a little bit more club.  He left it short in the bunker, so kind of one of those in match play where if you just go and execute.
I hit the green.  I hit it about eight feet underneath the hole.  Kind of the same thing.  He hit a bunker shot to about like 15 feet, he missed it, he said, Pick it up.
Q. Still, even though you didn't have to putt, you're still making the plays?
STEWART HAGESTAD: Oh, for sure.  Yeah, I mean, to go and execute when -- to go and execute, that's one of the great things I love about match play - even though I don't think I've shown it on Fox these last few days - I feel like I'm a pretty good ball-striker, and when given a situation, I can kind of execute given what hand I'm dealt.
Q. Uh-huh.  Do you feel like you're playing with house money a little bit since you haven't gotten this far before in a U.S. Amateur?
STEWART HAGESTAD: Totally.  Totally.  It's weird.  Like I'm nervous, but at the same time, I've accomplished a tremendous goal this week.  My goal, and I've kind of woken up every morning and, Let's just go out and let's just have fun with it.  This is what we love.
Obviously the more pressure will get rested the more you make it into match play.  No, for sure.  I said it before:  A huge weight has been lifted off my shoulders in that sense.  I'm just trying to go out and have fun and play as free as I can.
Q. When you made the turn in the first round of stroke play you were not in a good place.  What's happened to you in the last 72 hours?
STEWART HAGESTAD: I just -- even though I'm not particularly proud of the way I kind of grinded when I made the turn, I feel like I could have made a couple more birdies and just maybe gotten a little bit more out of my round and personally put myself in a little bit better mood.
I still gave myself a chance.  Back was up against the wall and I was able to capitalize on it.  I made the most of a great opportunity.  Hopefully going off that we can continue to capitalize for the next couple rounds.
Q. Last one:  Any similarities to where you are playing-wise right now and to 2016 Mid-Am?
STEWART HAGESTAD: I don't know, the last nine holes were pretty strong.  I think under the circumstances that's probably the best I've ever played given the situation.  That's about as locked in and focused as I've ever been.
But, you know, I feel like I'm hitting it well enough to score.  I hit it a little bit better every round, which is something I did similar to that week.  I like where I am with the putter and feel like I'm driving it solid.
I'm also chipping it well for my standards, which is nice, so I can be a little bit more carefree going into greens.
Yeah, let's not go that far, but we can maybe talk in a couple days.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT