U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2018
Stewart Hagestad
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  First U.S. Amateur match win; is that correct?  
STEWART HAGESTAD: First U.S. Amateur match play match.   
 Q.  Start?  
STEWART HAGESTAD: Start, yeah.   
 Q.  And win, so two firsts.  
STEWART HAGESTAD: Yeah.  I've said a couple times, and I don't want to keep beating a dead horse here, but no, I really felt like there was a lot of pressure that had been lifted off of me.  I feel like I slept pretty well last night.  It was a big personal accomplishment that had kind of been lifted.  I obviously wanted to go out and to play well today, and I was fortunate enough to go out and do that, but it meant the world, obviously, to get through, and just kind of felt like I was able to go and play a little bit more free today.   
 Q.  And did you?  
STEWART HAGESTAD: Yeah, I think so.  I think so.  I like the way I play in match play.  I feel like having a little bit of an edge, which is something I'm actually trying to work on in stroke play is just kind of get that edge a little bit earlier in the earlier rounds, but I feel like in match play, that kind of starts from the get-go, and I like that feeling.  So yeah, I feel like I definitely played a little bit more freely and played well.  Except for that 18th hole.  Good Lord, was that uninspiring.   
 Q.  So the third shot -- you play a smart tee shot, smart second shot.  Did the wind kind of pick up on you a little bit more than you expected?  
STEWART HAGESTAD: I want to sit here and get all analytical with it, but I'm not going to sugar coat it, I think I just hit a bad one.  I think I just hit a golf shot that's not really indicative of too many hours to count hitting wedges in my youth.   
 Q.  But he was in the water, so did it -- were you just feeling a little like, oh, my gosh, I've left myself with a long bunker shot?  
STEWART HAGESTAD: No, I was just kind of annoyed, to be totally honest.  I really wasn't that nervous.  It was more, I think, just -- you've just got to keep your pedal to the floor.  That was just so the epitome of being up two touchdowns with -- we can say this now because it's almost football season, and I can't wait -- being up two touchdowns with six minutes to go and running the clock down.  It's like, well, if you pass one to your tight end and get a couple first downs, you can knock this thing out real quick, just hit the green.  I think it was just -- hit a better shot under the circumstance.  It's not that hard.   
 Q.  Do you have much experience on this golf course?  
STEWART HAGESTAD: No.  It's the third time I've played it.   
 Q.  Today was the third round you've ever played?  
STEWART HAGESTAD: Yeah.   
 Q.  Wow, so this week is the first time you've played here, a practice round?  
STEWART HAGESTAD: No, I've never played it.  This is number three.   
 Q.  Do you like it?  
STEWART HAGESTAD: I've got a great guy on the bag.   
 Q.  Who's that?  
STEWART HAGESTAD: His name is Billy Bonesteiner.  My dad gets up here from time to time for conferences and stuff like that, and he's probably come up a bunch of times the last 25, 30 years, and Dad was like, he's a great guy, he knows the greens really well, I think he can help you.  So yeah, I have a great guy that's going to help me out there, so I owe a tremendous amount of credit to him.   
 Q.  So you're leaning on him on the greens --  
STEWART HAGESTAD: A lot.   
 Q.  Is that normal for you, or do you kind of do your own --  
STEWART HAGESTAD: I like to confirm on the greens.  I like to kind of read it myself and then confirm.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT