U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2018
Stewart Hagestad
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  We've got Stewart Hagestad with us, the lowest score in stroke play; bogey free 66 at Pebble Beach.  That sounds pretty good, doesn't it?  
STEWART HAGESTAD: It sounds very, very good.  Yeah, I'm very happy with the way I played today.  I'm just looking forward to tomorrow.   
 Q.  Cool.  What was clicking?  
STEWART HAGESTAD: I putted great.  My caddie, Billy Bodensteiner, he's a guy from up here.  He was just amazing on the greens.  Kind of felt like we were on the same page every day.   
My speed was really good all day.  You know, I just started seeing the lines and kind of started hitting them.  I'm really, really proud of the way I kind of scored.  That was about it.   
 Q.  What's your history at Pebble Beach?  Have you played many times?  
STEWART HAGESTAD: Second time I've played it.  I've been up here a bunch before in the area.  My dad comes up for a couple conference so he plays it from time to time, but I've never played it.   
Growing up in Southern California, a lot of family friends have kind of said the same thing.  Pebble, I'm sure you've played it a bunch or I'm sure it sets up well for your game or you know the course well or something to that degree.   
Everyone is just kind of aghast when I'm like, Yeah, I've never played it before.  So it was awfully special to play it in competition and to have played the way I did.   
 Q.  Out of the five birdies, which one was really good?  Or were a couple them?  
STEWART HAGESTAD: You know, the first two were great because they kind of gave you a chance.  You know, early in your round it can kind of go one way or the other.   
There is actually a hole -- two holes, in fact -- that you were not birdies that were critical to the round.  On 14 I hit it in the left bunker and then tried to kind of lay up with a - I think it was an 8-iron.  Ended up hitting the lip and just (indiscernible) into the fairway, and I had like 285 up the hill.   
Hit 3-wood to a front right bunker, and then hit a long bunker shot to like six feet and ended up making that for par.   
I mean, those are the kind of things that if you're going to make match play or if your back is against the wall, those are critical, critical scores where you have to go in and save shots.   
And then I made a great birdie at the next, but, you know, like the other hole that kind of comes to mind is No. 2 where I hit it in the bunker off the tee and kind of went to the back of the green and didn't really hit a great putt.  I think I probably had like 12 or 14 feet and I had made that.  At the time I'm 2-Under so that's a lot different like.   
At the time I'm 2-under, so that's a lot different, like you know where you are in the round.  You know you're close, but you're nowhere near like with that cushion that the scorecard says that I had.   
Once I made that, that was kind of like, Okay, maybe we have something special.  You know, I just -- like I said, I don't want to go too far.  I just really putted well.  I'm really proud of the way that I scored.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT