MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 6, 2017
Stewart Hagestad
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How much fun was it? It was a tough day, but how much fun did you have out there?   
STEWART HAGESTAD: Yeah, super tough day. I told the guys that we're staying with last night that if I shot 75 that was probably going to be a pretty good number. It's playing really soft. You're never comfortable out there, standing over any shot, whether it's on the greens or fairways, not that I hit too many of those. It was great.   
The first two or three holes there were some nerves that were there for sure. And as I kind of got into the rhythm of the round and started playing, and started kind of focusing on the things I could control, the old adage that every sports psychologists talks about. But it's true. And when I could get myself into that comfort place where I was focused on what I was doing, I got into a nice rhythm, even though I didn't hit it my best, I scored really, really nicely. It was a blast. There's definitely some work to be done this afternoon. I'm really pleased with 74.   
   
 Q. A great recovery shot out of the straw on 18. And an earlier round on 9, also?   
STEWART HAGESTAD: 9 was a little easier. It was a little clearer, it was more just hit the number, I didn't have to do anything with the ball. 18 took a little more creativity. I gave a stupid one back at 17. And luckily I stole one at 18. So splitting between the two, I typically hit fades, and when I'm not hitting my best it bleeds into a cut. On 18 with the wind that it is today, it's so challenging for a tee shot. So the fact that I went 5‑4, it's not ideal, but the reality is those are two really tough, tough holes, especially today.   
So, yeah, again, super pleased. Hitting it from the straw on 9 and 18, to make two fours.  
   
 Q. On 18, that two putt, how far was the first putt? Did you putt it out 70 feet or so?  
STEWART HAGESTAD: I can just tell you. It's about the length of the green, maybe five, ten, 15, 20, 25, close to 30; caught it 85, 90 feet, somewhere in there. And with the wind and everything, too, I think the wind actually helped me a little bit.  
The putt on 18, not to get crazy technical, the wind was coming in and away. But if there was no wind the middle of that green would have influenced the putt to go much further left. And the wind kind of really held it up and straightened it out a little bit, so I didn't have to play it as far out to take some of the speed out. I made a really, really nice first putt and backed off the second one for a minute. It's challenging, because when it's blowing this hard, as you know, golf balls, they're not very‑‑ they're heavy, so you've really got to factor in the wind when it's blowing anything more than 10 or 15. When I played it outside the hole breaking uphill, so it's a very awkward shot. I'm really happy I don't have to go make a two‑putt. Considering I was going to make 4 on the tee or from the second shot, I would have been totally cool with that. All pictures on the score card.   
   
 Q. Who do you have here?  
STEWART HAGESTAD: I've got a bunch of family and a bunch of buddies. I kind of split my time after school, I worked in New York City but I grew up in Southern California, so between Orange County and Los Angeles and friends from New York, it's a pretty eclectic mix. Everyone is here. They're so fired up. It's a blessing to have them here with me.  
   
 Q. You went straight to New York after graduating USC?  
STEWART HAGESTAD: I did. I went to go work for private equity after school back there. I worked for a firm called KTR Capital Partners, and Oaktree Residential and Management. And I went to my boss and said this is a pretty unique opportunity. To try and make the Walker Cup team next year, if I take a month, month and a half, two months off, to get ready for the Masters, would you be okay with that, and he couldn't have been more supportive. He actually sent me an email last night kind of congratulating me and wishing me luck. And everyone has been nothing short of supportive. It's been really, really special.   
   
 Q. How much time have you spent back in California since that?  
STEWART HAGESTAD: I've been traveling a little. But essentially based out of California since like the middle of January. So it's really, really tough to‑‑ there's still snow on the ground.  
   
 Q. There were some guys in uniform. What's the gray uniforms?  
STEWART HAGESTAD: Yeah, yeah. So one of our buddies, to give him a little plug, one of my very close friends, Matt Murphy, who is the east coast representative for johnnie‑O, johnnie‑O was started in California. Really started in California. Really incepted out of Los Angeles Country Club by a guy named John O'Donnell.   
So Matty works for them, one office is in Greenwich. So he flew down and got it all organized. I don't even know what they've got lined up. But it's not an issue on his part, because he's with the company. So he put something together with all the boys. It seems like they're pretty fired up. I don't know what he's doing. After this I'll check in and see that everyone is doing all right.   
   
 Q. I heard something back when you were in college and you used to come here to play that you thought, man, this is like the best day in my life. Has that changed now? Is this the best day?  
STEWART HAGESTAD: No, the best day of my life was still‑‑ was probably still when I won the Mid. This is a good start. I'm not treating it‑‑ just because it's the Masters, I'm not treating it any differently. There's a ton of work to be done tomorrow. And even though I'm pleased with the good start, I don't know who is lead being, but lack I checked I think I'm four back. And I'm going to refuse to treat it any different. I'm 25 and not to throw a bunch of the other Mids under the buss, because I have a tremendous amount of respect for them. But as far as mid‑amateurs go, I don't yet consider myself‑‑ with the family and with the other obligations like work and just everything that those guys have to put up with, I'm in a very, very unique spot, that I have the opportunity to play, I'm trying to go get my MBA next year, it's a unique kind of timing thing. But I still feel like if I'm playing my best ‑‑ I think DJ is withdrawing, by the way, if you guys want to hustle over there.  
But in any case‑‑ he's way more important than me this week (laughter).  
But, no, it's a really good start and, yeah, it was special when I came down here. But, look, it's a special piece of property. This is a very special case, and special membership. And it's an honor and a privilege just to be in the field and have the opportunity to compete.   
   
 Q. Where are you going to grad school? USC?  
STEWART HAGESTAD: Likely USC, depending on where I get in.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT