U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 18, 2019
Stewart Hagestad
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. He got off to a quick start on you today.
STEWART HAGESTAD: Yeah.
Q. Obviously you're not used to seeing somebody come after you like that - this week anyhow. But you were able to handle it and get back in the match. Tell me how that all flowed.
STEWART HAGESTAD: Yeah, just, I don't know, didn't start off very well. Just kept chipping away at his lead. Played solid down the stretch. I mean, if I'm being totally honest, I wish I saw the squall on the forecast so I was a little more prepared.
Delay up on 16 when it was kind of swirling and he hit an awesome shot in there.
Then I just didn't hit the green on 17. Yeah, great. So good for him.
Q. What happened on the tee shot on 17?
STEWART HAGESTAD: I just think the wind swirling and as this thing moved through, just kind of got up there and just misjudged it. Actually thought I hit a pretty decent shot and took off and started going left.
I knew the green was super firm. So, yeah, I don't know. Feel like I hit an okay shot. Again, I just think the wind was swirling a little and I got bit. It is what it is. Feel like I hit a good one, but whatever.
Q. Did you have to stand in water there for a second?
STEWART HAGESTAD: Yeah. Yeah.
Q. Was your lie okay over there?
STEWART HAGESTAD: I mean, if you're standing in the hazard your lie is not great. You can read between the lines on that one.
The fact that I had a shot was nice, to do something really cool and heroic, to even have an attempt to get up and down.
Yeah, I mean, it wasn't great. Just the fact I had a putt at it after the tee shot was nice. I had a chance to make it and I missed, so...
Q. Then the tee shot into the bunker on 18.
STEWART HAGESTAD: It wasn't that far off. I mean, as my body begins to get tired I have a tendency to tug it left. Just hit a little heely one that had the bunker maybe not been there, probably would've cut back to the middle of the fairway.
Got snagged. Yeah, stinks. Whatever.
Q. Obviously you had to take aim at the flag stick here.
STEWART HAGESTAD: Yeah, I hit an awesome second shot; right in between clubs. I mean, adrenaline is pumping, but I don't know about that. Maybe in retrospect I should have tried to nuke an 8.
I don't know. I knew I had this kind of backboard behind it, so figured that if I could get any love and maybe hit a good one, long was going to be the miss versus short. So that was the thought process there.
And then when I saw it back here I was kind of like, Ah, shoot. Again, you can read between the lines. I'm not swearing being interviewed.
Q. So making the final four two straight years and going out in the semis, I know you're here for one reason, but what are your emotions when that happens?
STEWART HAGESTAD: I mean, it sucks. What do you want me to say? Yeah, I'm super bummed to be that close. I mean, I really like this golf course. I played great the whole week. Had a lot of confidence going into it.
So, no. Yeah, listen, I played great the whole week. I knew that this would be my toughest match, especially after the way I played this morning. Tough to like kind of back it up after you go out and pretty much go lights out.
So, yeah, just unfortunately the only thing to say is just got to play better.
Q. Still the No. 1 thing that you want to win every year, the Mid Amateur -- maybe outside the U.S. Amateur?
STEWART HAGESTAD: Okay. Then yeah, yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT