U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 18, 2019
Stewart Hagestad
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Let's talk about all those good birdies on the front.
STEWART HAGESTAD: Yeah, I played really solid. Hit it well and made some putts. Was nice to see them go in; take advantage before the wind started.
I hit it great. I almost tried to -- I don't want to say care less -- but like not be as into it. Like, I mean, you knew you were playing well and you got to continue to play well. Just there was a lot of golf left, yeah.
Q. I saw the birdie at 9. Tell me about the birdies at 6 and 7.
STEWART HAGESTAD: It was basically the same number both times. Hit two great shots.
Q. Clubs and yardage?
STEWART HAGESTAD: It was 185 front and I hit 9-iron to four, five feet on 6.
And then on 7 I hit a great shot to like 12 feet. He basically made it so that I had to two-putt from 12 feet because couldn't have lagged it down there from there.
Q. Right. And then I know you were in pretty much A-1 position on 9. What did you hit into there? What was your yardage?
STEWART HAGESTAD: It was like basically the same shot again. Yeah, the yardage was different but it was basically the same shot. I don't remember what it was. Probably like 180 or something.
Q. So what's your mental state going into the semifinal now?
STEWART HAGESTAD: Just keep pushing. It's not fun if you lose in the first round or in the finals or in the semis. The semis Julie.
I didn't come here to play in the semifinals, so, you know, it's cool, but we got to keep going.
Q. Does your focus get better as match play goes along?
STEWART HAGESTAD: I like to think it does. But, you know, everyone -- again, everyone at this level is really good. I played solid this morning, but you need to continue to play well and with that state of mind.
It's difficult to follow up a good round. I mean, anyone that's ever played golf at a high level knows that. You can't really take anything for granted. Just continue to be as specific as possible and commit to every shot. That's about all you can do.
Q. Last one: When you say you're playing well, what are you doing well?
STEWART HAGESTAD: Just becomes simpler. You can look at targets and just -- I don't want to say swing more freely -- but there is less fear. I don't know. I just see it better. Like it just becomes more simple.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT