U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 17, 2019
Stewart Hagestad
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So you're in familiar territory again.  
STEWART HAGESTAD: Yep.   
 Q.  And that's where you want to be?  
STEWART HAGESTAD: Yep. Yeah, I don't know, one at a time. Just keep pushing.   
 Q.  But with all the experience that you've had, you know where you're going here, so what are some of the things you may encounter that the other guys won't that haven't been to the quarterfinals before?  
STEWART HAGESTAD: Well, how can I say this without sounding bad? Well, I know the whole way through, from here on out, you're getting everyone's best. They're throwing everything they have at you. There's a lot of golf left, and you've got to kind of take it one match at a time and a hole at a time and all the adages that go with it. But everyone that's here is really good. So you can't really take anything for granted. The golf course is only going to get likely more firm and fast and tougher, and I'm sure we'll see some interesting pins. I know what comes with it, so -- I felt like I played great last year in the semis and unfortunately hit a buzz saw. I've been that buzz saw before, too. Just keep playing hard and do everything you can, and that's all you can do.   
 Q.  How much did the course change this afternoon with the wind, and how much calculating did you have to do that maybe you didn't have to do earlier this week?  
STEWART HAGESTAD: It's a little firmer. Other guys may feel differently. I kind of felt like after England that I had kind of a different perspective on it where I kind of embraced it. You know it's going to be firm and fast, and you just -- you can't be quite as aggressive, but it's not like you could be super aggressive this morning. Yeah, I mean, it was just another factor that you really had to pay attention to. But I don't think it was a huge thing, if that makes sense.   
 Q.  How much is your caddie helping you --  
STEWART HAGESTAD: J.D.?   
 Q.  -- with all the calculations, because I've talked to others, and there's like four or five things that you have to do normally that you wouldn't have to do -- in altitude that you normally wouldn't have to do.  
STEWART HAGESTAD: Yeah, I guess, yeah. I mean, the altitude is -- if you haven't figured it out by now, then that's really impressive that you've made it to the round of 8. I mean, it's just a number and you just change your standards, and you can either kind of relay it back to what you hit all your numbers at home and make the adjustment or know what you hit it here and then go from there. No, J.D. has been great and he knows kind of what certain pins -- which pins you can be aggressive to and just, I don't know, calling him -- I've given liberty on a couple shots to tell me what to hit. He knows my game, and he's been very helpful. I've needed him, and I'm sure I will need him coming down the stretch.   
 Q.  Today's match, like the others, jumped on him hard early, birdied 1, 2 and 5. How did you accomplish those birdies, and did you feel like you were in control as soon as you did that?  
STEWART HAGESTAD: I felt -- yeah. I felt solid in the afternoon. I hit a great drive on 1 and hit 5-iron in, so that was very helpful, two-putt birdie. Hit a 25-footer at 2, which maybe had a little speed. But anyway, 4 I made a stupid bogey. So I guess I was a little annoyed there. But yeah, I hit a real close one in there on 5. So I just played solid all day, to be honest, and I was able to get the box and get some good shots and keep the pressure on, so that was great.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT