AUGUSTA NATIONAL WOMEN'S AMATEUR
April 6, 2019
Alice Hewson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Tell us what that experience was like.  
ALICE HEWSON: I had a really great time out there today.  The atmosphere was incredible.  There are so many great people out there cheering us all on.  I had a really gait time.  The good golf helped.  Yeah, it was just really great.   
 Q.  A couple of lovely birdies, 8 was a fantastic up-and-down and 15, as well?  
ALICE HEWSON: I got off to, I had a few really good birdies.  Holed a few good putts which is always nice.  Good for confidence boosting.  The greens were just rolling incredibly, so we had to get it started on line and you were set.   
 Q.  As an up-and-coming young player, what does this mean to you?  
ALICE HEWSON: This is a really great opportunity, and no one else is getting the chance to play in the first 30 women to play here.  I'm really, really grateful that I've been able to be out here this week and play well.  I'm looking to turn pro at the end of the summer, so I think it's a great confidence builder and building block for what's to come.   
 Q.  How much would you like to come back here and play a women's Masters?  
ALICE HEWSON: That would be incredible, but I know that would be a few years down the line yet.   
 Q.  Give us an idea of what it's like to play competitively around this golf course?  
ALICE HEWSON: I've played here before, and this week was very different to when I've been here before.  The practice round yesterday, I had to think of it more about plodding my way around the golf course rather than just playing it for fun, and the greens are definitely a lot faster than they have been in the past.  So it was a challenge out there, and you have to very quickly adapt to just how quick the greens really are.   
 Q.  And what will be the abiding memory you'll take away from this experience?  
ALICE HEWSON: The putt I holed from the back of 15.  That was just incredible.  The roars coming from 16 and all down the 15th fairway, and having my whole family here to watch is really good.   
 Q.  How long was the putt?  
ALICE HEWSON: It was from off the green, too.  It was maybe 25, 30 feet.   
 Q.  What did your caddie say after everything wrapped up?  
ALICE HEWSON: He just said good job, really.  We had a lot of fun out there and that was the main focus of the dare was just to go out and have fun.  We are actually both driving back to Clemson to tee it up at our home tournament in the morning, so just kind of, "see you in the morning."   
 Q.  How would you summarize this whole week, this experience?  
ALICE HEWSON: It's been really mind-blowing.  I knew that they were going to do it well, but the way that Augusta National does stuff is just completely amazing.  We got to talk to Annika, Lorena Ochoa, Nancy Lopez and Se Ri Pak yesterday, and just got to kind of pick their brains a little bit on kind of their decisions to turn pro and how difficult it was for them.   
I think that's really important for everyone in the field.  You have some really young people here, and we are all looking to the next step pretty soon.  Everything has been on offer this week.   
 Q.  You mentioned you were looking to go pro.  Did talking to them give you a different perspective?  
ALICE HEWSON: It was really good being able to talk to them, and they mentioned, you know, feeling like you were ready to go and ready to turn pro.  I think playing well out here this week in front of the crowds that we had today, that gives me some confidence going into the next stage of my golfing career.   
 Q.  Playing in an atmosphere like this, being able to have support behind you, how did that feel and motivate you as you continued through today's round?  
ALICE HEWSON: It was really good, and there were so many Clemson fans out there today.  I think on every single fairway, they said good Tigers about 50 times.  That's something really special and it's not something we get at home, so I was cherishing every moment.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT