MLB WORLD SERIES: PADRES v YANKEES
October 19, 1998
Sterling Hitchcock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Sterling, how do you feel and do you feel under any pressure to go deeper into the
game tomorrow because of how the bullpen has been used early on?
 
 STERLING HITCHCOCK: No, my approach to every game is to go as deep as I can and to keep
us close. And that doesn't change, regardless. 
 
Q. How do you feel physically, with your cold or flu or whatever you have?
 
 STERLING HITCHCOCK: Physically, I'm fine. I feel a little congestion, but it's no big
deal. 
 
Q. Sterling, do you feel like the Yankees gave you a full and fair shot before you were
traded?
 
 STERLING HITCHCOCK: Certainly, I started the year in '95, they gave me the ball and
gave me a chance to go out and prove myself. And they let me pitch the last game of the
season there with basically the whole season on the line, trying to get us into the
playoffs. I'm very thankful to the Yankees to give me an opportunity to play at this
level. 
 
Q. Is there any special significance, Sterling, playing against the Yankees in such a
critical situation?
 
 STERLING HITCHCOCK: No, it doesn't matter if we're playing the Bad News Bears right
now, it's the World Series, it's an opportunity to pitch in it and as a kid that's what
you dream of. 
 
Q. Are you prepared mentally and physically for this start, considering the situation,
0-2?
 
 STERLING HITCHCOCK: Certainly. It's not like going into another game saying it doesn't
matter if we win. Obviously I want to win every game I pitch. That's how I approach the
game. 
 
Q. Sterling, every organization gives feedback to a young player, and tells them what
areas they'd like to improve on. What were the areas that the Yankees told you you need to
get better at, what kind of feedback did you get from them?
 
 STERLING HITCHCOCK: Pretty much learning how to pack my luggage and leave (laughter.)
There wasn't a whole lot of correspondence that way.  
 
Q. Sterling, was '92 your first Spring Training, and if so, can you talk about David
Cone at that point in time on the Yankees and just what your impressions were then, and
being a teammate with him again in '95?
 
 STERLING HITCHCOCK: I didn't go to camp with him in '92, I went to Minor League camp, I
was called up out of Double A. And the only time I was around Cone, it was the second half
when we brought him over from, was it Toronto? So he was a big influence. He and Jack,
both, when they were there, just two gritty performers, took the ball every fifth day and
didn't want to give it up. Wanted to go to bed with it that night. They had a big impact
on me, just as far as gritting it out and trying to go as long as you can and as deep as
you can into the games. 
 
Q. Sterling, throughout the season you've drawn the ball when they've had some of the
biggest crowds here at the stadium. And you've pitched pretty well on those nights. Any
correlation in your mind?
 
 STERLING HITCHCOCK: It's just fun. It's 65,000 people in your face, wanting you to do
well. And you don't want to disappoint them. They get up on their feet. They're loud and
they're cheering for you, you know they're behind you, you get a little extra drive, a
little extra adrenaline going there. 
 
Q. Can you talk about the impression of the Yankees line-up after scoring 18 runs in
the last two games?
 
 STERLING HITCHCOCK: They can hit. Bottom line, they can hit. I'm just going to have to
stay within myself out there, get the ball over the plate and go after people. 
 
Q. Just follow-up on that, is it possible that they are one of the best teams of all
time, given all the games they've won, and how do you feel as a professional going in to
face them?
 
 STERLING HITCHCOCK: I'm 27, I've watched baseball for 20 years, maybe, I don't know.
Obviously 114 wins stacks up there pretty good. It's put it into a historical view, I
would imagine that they would have to be one of the best ever, but, again, I've never seen
the '27 Yankees. So it's kind of hard for me to say that. Again, it's just down to making
my pitches, and giving us a chance to win. 
 
Q. From what you've seen over 20 years, how do they stack up with the teams you've
watched, even going back as a kid?
 
 STERLING HITCHCOCK: They're pretty good. They're pretty good. 
 
Q. Sterling, could you talk about how you're a different pitcher than you were with the
Yankees, not only your mindset?
 
 STERLING HITCHCOCK: I think I'm pretty close to where I was in '95. I think '96 and '97
I got away from it a little bit. With battling some arm soreness in '96 and '97 both, I
changed my pitching style a little bit. And I think this year with the aide of Stu and
just my mental focus and intensity out there, I've gotten back, and I'm probably a little
better now mentally, and physically able to throw the ball where I want to than I did in
'95. 
 
Q. Not making the starting rotation out of Spring Training, 
 
 was that a wake-up call for you, and how did you respond to that? 
 STERLING HITCHCOCK: No, I sat down with Kevin and Stu and Boch and it wasn't a slight
on me as far as my ability, it was an opportunity for me to fill a need that we had in the
bullpen with Vosberg going down in spring and needing the surgery. We had a hole down
there, they felt I could fill it temporarily and at that time coming out of camp I knew we
had a pretty good team and had a good chance to go pretty deep into postseason, and I
wasn't about to ruffle any feathers, so to speak. I just wanted to do whatever I could to
help this team out and everything worked out for the best. 
 
Q. What did you learn about the Yankees line-ups from watching Games 1 and 2, the way
Brown and Ashby approached them?
 
 STERLING HITCHCOCK: They can hit. It's a good hitting line-up. I've got to go out and
do the same thing I've done all year long, which is throw strikes and go after people. 
 
Q. Sterling, how does the pressure of pitching for the Yankees at the age of 21 compare
to pitching in the postseason at the age of 27?
 
 STERLING HITCHCOCK: Pitching back then was pitching not to go to Colombus, basically. I
was fighting for my life out there then. At this point in time I'm enjoying this, this is
a lot of fun. This is what I've dreamed about. So it's different. This is a fun type of
atmosphere and a fun type of game, where before it was just trying to survive long enough
to put some thoughts into somebody's mind that I could pitch at this level. 
 
Q. In the games against Atlanta, were they more important to you personally than the
game coming up tomorrow?
 
 STERLING HITCHCOCK: Yeah, I think they're important team-wise, more than anything.
Basically against Houston and Atlanta I wanted to go out there and give us the chance to
be close. I knew I was going to have to be pretty good to get by Johnson and Maddux and
Glavine. And the same holds true for tomorrow with Cone out there. I've got to try to
limit my mistakes, and have some fun with it. 
 
Q. When you came over from the American League, how hard adjustment was it to have to
hit?
 
 STERLING HITCHCOCK: Considering I couldn't hit Little League pitching, now I've got
Major League fastballs and sliders coming after me, I'm still learning. I think if you ask
around I'm night and day from last year, but I still stink (laughter.) It's a battle. It's
certainly not easy to do. And taking 11 years off between swinging bats didn't help any. 
 
Q. Sterling, you guys pitched your way into the series by beating the Braves with great
pitching. The first two games you almost pitch your way out of the series, by the whole
team struggling. Does the entire pitching staff have to get back to what it was against
the Braves for you guys to beat the Yankees?
 
 STERLING HITCHCOCK: Yeah. This team has survived all year on our pitching staff and our
defense. And we've got to get back to throwing the ball like we're capable of. And I think
things will turnaround. I've got a lot of confidence in the guys,  
 and I think it will. 
 
Q. Sterling, one of the things the Yankees have done best all year is work hitters --
make pitchers work deep in the counts. And Andy and Kevin both had high pitch counts when
they were in there. What can you do to battle that?
 
 STERLING HITCHCOCK: I think getting ahead in the count, throwing quality pitches. If I
throw a lot of pitches, I throw a lot of pitches, I've got four months to recover. It
really doesn't matter to me. 
 
Q. Is there any part of you that feels like you're pitching tomorrow night to save your
team's season?
 
 STERLING HITCHCOCK: No, we're taking this thing one at a time. And if we lose tomorrow
we've still got another opportunity to win the next day. And that's really all we can look
at. You can't get ahead of yourself. And this is such a pitch-by-pitch game that when you
start looking at the big picture instead of the little things in front of you, that's when
you start losing focus. 
 
Q. Sterling, when you were with the Yankees could you see that they were on the right
track toward becoming a winning organization and doing things the right way?
 
 STERLING HITCHCOCK: I think more so after I left. You look and they had Pettitte out
there, they had Jeter out there, they had Bernie out there, they brought Mariano up to
pitch out of the bullpen then, and I think it's important for teams to try to build from
within. And they've done a great job of that, of just bringing in young talent to go along
with a good veteran nucleus. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT