NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: PADRES v BRAVES
October 14, 1998
Sterling Hitchcock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What are your feelings about the Yankee organization?

STERLING HITCHCOCK: This is a special time for all of us. And you sit down in Spring
Training, you mark out what you want to accomplish during the season, and everybody in
that clubhouse, our last goal is to win the last game. And that was well in October. We
set our sights high, and we're four wins away from that. Whether I was going to New York
or Tokyo, it doesn't matter, we're going to the World Series.

Q. Did you surprise yourself with the high level of your performance in the postseason?

STERLING HITCHCOCK: I think my level of performance I directly contribute to God. And I
truly believe that, without him, I wouldn't have had the peace and the calm and just my
level and my mindset out on the mound in the three postseason games. I just contribute it
to him.

Q. Where would you rank this one in your career?

STERLING HITCHCOCK: The biggest, by far. Today was a big game. I thank Boch and Stu for
giving me the opportunity to go out there, for their confidence in me. And you can't say
enough about those guys that we've got in the locker room right now, and the way they
played.

Q. Sterling, you pitched a great game, but could you comment on your offense today?

STERLING HITCHCOCK: You know, our offense has just been like it's been all year long.
It's so timely. Glavine got locked up there pretty good in a 0-0 game. And I knew sooner
or later we were going to get something on the board. To put five up there in one inning
against them is very hard to do. And I just clap my hand for those guys.

Q. What about your offense. In particular?

STERLING HITCHCOCK: I have no offense. That's my biggest at-bat in my career there,
going back to little League, going back to coming over here. It's no mystery I can't hit,
but I knew I had to do something there. Two runs we weren't comfortable with. We wanted to
try to get something else across there. I knew I had to put the ball in play, maybe
something happens. As usual, I didn't hit the ball very hard. And I think if it bounces,
it probably checks up like a nice sand wedge to the green. So I'll take it.

Q. You started the season in the bullpen, and you end up as the most valuable player in
this series. What was the progression, what happened?

STERLING HITCHCOCK: I think coming out of Spring Training, I threw the ball all right
in the spring. I deserved to be a starter, but for the sake of the team, without having a
left-handed pitcher down in the bullpen, Kevin, Boch and Stu all felt it the best way to
go for that time period. And going out there was the best thing for me. It allowed me to
come back in the games, be aggressive, going after people, getting strike 1, attacking
people, instead of letting them attack me. And I think that carried on as soon as I got in
the rotation.

Q. When did you start back in rotation?

STERLING HITCHCOCK: Late April.

Q. Sterling, this time of year we all make a big deal about three day's rest and four
day's rest. Were there any adjustments at all for you in this situation?

STERLING HITCHCOCK: You know, for me there wasn't this time. In my career I haven't
thrown very well on three days, but the two starts prior to this I didn't throw a whole
lot of pitches. So I knew pretty well that I could go out there and contribute for our
team. And I also knew that should we have lost today, I'll put my money on Kevin Brown any
day of the week. And fortunately, we didn't have to go to that.

Q. Sterling, your at-bat against Glavine, did you do anything right? Were your guessing
pitches to hit?

STERLING HITCHCOCK: The thing I did right there was stick my bat out and it was moving
a little bit. And once again, the control of those guys, you know they're going to be
around the strike zone. It hit my bat and it hit the ground, and that's what I did right.

Q. Your two starts, and really, all four of your wins, you shut down the Braves
line-up. What did you see, what were you able to take advantage of?

STERLING HITCHCOCK: You know, I think if you look at it, we were very aggressive with
them. And if you look at it, you look at the stuff of our starters and all four guys we
ran out there have got good stuff. I don't think enough has been said about our pitching
staff, here, and certainly the job that Stu has done with us. And so I give the other guys
in our locker room a lot of credit.

Q. What has Stu done with you, how has he helped you?

STERLING HITCHCOCK: I think he's helped me, certainly, mentally. At this level, any
pitcher in the Big Leagues has the ability to get people out. The main difference is
what's between your ears, what are you thinking about on the mound, what are you thinking
about in between innings. And Stu has certainly helped me out in that aspect and also just
a facing people one pitch at a time.

Q. When you see another team bench some of their powerful left-handed hitters against
you, the stats indicate you're more effective against right-handers. How do you feel?

STERLING HITCHCOCK: I'm very comfortable. I use my splitfinger as an out-pitch. My
changeup I'm very comfortable with, and I feel like I locate the ball pretty good, as
well. So to me, honestly, you take Gerald Williams and you put him out there; you've got
Batista, both those guys can hurt you. I probably would have almost been more comfortable
going the other way, Graffanino has done quite a bit of damage against me in his career. I
probably would have been comfortable had they gone the other way.

Q. You obviously have bigger team goals next year. Do you relish the opportunity to
show the Yankees how far you've come?

STERLING HITCHCOCK: You know, really looking at it, I thank them for giving me the
opportunity to come this far. Had I gone back to New York in '96, I probably would have
pitched out of the bullpen. They would have bought Gooden and Kenny Rogers over. I
probably would have pitched out of the bullpen, and maybe I'm still in the bullpen
somewhere. So basically, I thank them and tip my cap to them for giving me a chance to
move on with my career.

Q. In that vein, was the second trade hard? How did that fall into your mental
situation?

STERLING HITCHCOCK: You know, the second trade was totally unexpected. I knew the first
one was going down, who wouldn't give up two kids for Tino Martinez and Jeff Nelson. Look
what that's done for them. But the second one was tougher. I really enjoyed Seattle. They
had a great bunch of guys there. I had talked to Lou Pinella at a golf tournament before
that, and we were discussing how the rotation was going to shape up. I'm driving up to my
mother-in-law's and my agent calls me on the phone, and said: Hey, you got traded. And I
told him to shut up he said to me right away: Hey, look you're getting a great opportunity
in San Diego, and I was happy about it. We've got a great group of guys, a great coaching
staff and a great front office. I've enjoyed it here.

Q. Sterling, Yankee Stadium is not an easy place to play. Do you think having so many
ex-Yankees will be helpful?

STERLING HITCHCOCK: I think we've got a feel for how it's going to be. I think also you
look at -- Greg Vaughn's been there, he's played through the crowd is coming in as a
visiting team. We've got a lot of experience on our roster, and you know, that crowd there
can be harsh, but so what? We've got to play.

Q. Sterling, give me your thoughts on being named the MVP.

STERLING HITCHCOCK: It's the furthest thing from my mind, honestly. To look at it
there's 24 other guys that they could have given it to, as well. My two starts, yeah, I
pitched pretty good, but the bullpen came in behind me and picked me up like you wouldn't
believe. I think eight scoreless innings or something like that behind me. I have to tip
my cap to them and to the defense and offense as well.

Q. The fourth inning, Williams got to second with nobody out. Can you kind of go
through that inning; what you did well to get out of it without any trouble?

STERLING HITCHCOCK: After Gerald got to second, I think I had two strikes there on
Chipper with the pitch. So obviously, there I'm looking for a strike out. At least make
him hit the ball to the left side so he can't advance Gerald. And Cami made a good play
there and held him at second. It turned out to be huge, because you look at the ball Javy
hit down the line that Cami stopped, and he scores right there if we don't hold him at
second. So that was a big at-bat for me.

Q. How would you sum up your time in New York?

STERLING HITCHCOCK: On the field, I really enjoyed my time there. Off the field, away
from the game, you know, growing up outside of Tampa, I'm not used to the rat race that
much, so I struggled with that part of it. My time there with my teammates and being on
the field there was a good situation.

Q. Do you think playing in New York helped prepare you for the kind of pressure you see
in the postseason?

STERLING HITCHCOCK: I made every pitch in New York like it was my last one there. I
could be optioned out, basically. So, yeah, there is pressure in that situation. You never
know if you're going to be there one day or the next. But also I think it is helped form
me into a stronger pitcher, and certainly, I thank them for the opportunity, to even bring
me up to the Big Leagues. I came up at the age of 21. I'm very thankful for that.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT