MANULIFE LPGA CLASSIC
September 1, 2016
Brittany Lang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I just missed you holing out by one hole.  I came over and the volunteers said she just holed out from 70 yards.  That was on your 17th hole?  
BRITTANY LANG: No.  That hole-out was on my twelfth hole today.   
 Q.  So what was the club on that shot?  
BRITTANY LANG: Lob wedge.  Yeah.  The course was, I thought, playing a little bit tricky with the wind and couldn't get to that par-5, and I actually laid it up a little bit too far left and through; and I was like, awe, should still be okay, and then when I hit it, it was nice and high and on the right line.  And we couldn't see it.  And then my husband and all our friends were up there, and they were screaming, so it was a pretty cool reaction.   
 Q.  Did you think the putt on 18 was going to drop, too?  Pretty close?  
BRITTANY LANG: Yeah.  I was a little bit tentative on that one.  It is uphill.  I thought it would roll a little bit nicely when it get to the top.  I just wasn't as aggressive as I should have been there.  But I putted well.  Even my putts that I didn't make were on the right line.  So I'm really happy with today.   
 Q.  But overall a 67 on the first day.  Kind of windy conditions.  Minus five, leading as you go to the clubhouse.  Gotta be pleased with today's round.  
BRITTANY LANG: I'm very happy.  I had a lot of just great putting, a lot of aggressive swings, and I'm going to just run those through my mind, the positives, and I'm ecstatic for the next few days.   
 Q.  Now your first nine which was the back nine, I think you finished minus four --  
BRITTANY LANG: 3.   
 Q.  I was just wondering was there a big difference between the front and the back nine did you find?  
BRITTANY LANG: Not really.  We started on 10.  I think that can be a tricky hole, hole 10.  I made some good par saves early on the back, but no, I think you can really get at everything if you're hitting the ball solid, you can really make a lot of birdies out there.   
 Q.  What is it about this place?  Last year you were in the mix.  Here we are again doing an interview.  Brittany Lang is in the mix.  Does it give you something extra special?  
BRITTANY LANG: Yeah.  It's only Thursday.  So definitely not getting ahead of myself, but I love coming up here.  I love everything about it.  It's really pretty out there by 16.  You can see forever.  And it's such a great place to come.  The people are nice, and now being a Manulife ambassador, I'm part of their team, so it's cool to be here with one of my sponsors sponsoring the tournament.  I don't know.  I just feel super comfortable here.  We have some friends we're staying with this year, and my husband and all our friends from home are here.  So it's a pretty relaxed week.   
 Q.  How do you think it's going to change tomorrow, the course conditions?  Do you feel like you saw its teeth today or do you feel like everybody's going to be able to score well?  
BRITTANY LANG: You know what, I mean I know it's tricky right now.  I still think the scores will be low.  I don't know what the forecast is for tomorrow, but if there's a little bit of sun, I think the course might maybe firm up just a little bit for us, make it a little bit easier on the fairways and stuff.  But I still think it's going to take a pretty low number to win the tournament for sure, so I gotta keep staying aggressive.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT