MANULIFE LPGA CLASSIC
August 31, 2016
Brittany Lang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How does it feel playing in an event where one of your sponsors is the title sponsor of the event?  
BRITTANY LANG: Yeah, it's always a fun week because you get to see all the people who you only see a couple times during the year, all the people who work for Manulife.  We had a nice outing at Blue Springs with all the Manulife and their clients on Monday, so that was good.  But yeah, it's always a fun week, and I always love coming back here.  Should be a good week.   
 Q.  You've had success at this tournament, and then last year, as well, you played really well, 21-under and still didn't get the win.  Do you like it out here and the event in general?  
BRITTANY LANG: Yeah, I do.  Yeah, I played great the inaugural year with the win at Grey Silo, which I liked that course, and then I like this course, as well.  We've always had housing and nice friends to stay with.  It's a really comfortable week.  I don't know, yeah, I've played well here.  I've just felt really comfortable.  I like coming back here.  It's pretty.  I miss Grey Silo, but this is definitely a nice course, as well.   
 Q.  That was your first career win, too --  
BRITTANY LANG: It was, yeah.   
 Q.  Going from that to where you are now, how have you changed and evolved since then?  
BRITTANY LANG: I think I've gotten a lot more mentally -- I've gotten mentally stronger.  I think there I was fairly mentally strong, still getting there, but I feel like at the U.S. Open I was just super in control of what I was doing and everything I've been working on with regard to sticking to a process and not getting too outcome-focused on winning and stuff.  I think I nailed it at the U.S. Open, which in 2012 I think I didn't nail it, but it was almost there, so I've learned quite a bit since then.  It's been good experiences.   
 Q.  Last year you finished 21-under par, and that's not good enough to win.  I think Phil Mickelson at the British Open shoots 17-under at a major and doesn't win.  How do you feel when that happens?  21-under is a great score.  
BRITTANY LANG: Yeah, well, this course is pretty easy, and a British Open when the wind is not blowing is pretty easy, as well.  But I've said it a million times, the caliber of golf is so good in 2016, like people are -- these girls coming out, they're so prepared, they're so strong, and we're getting better, the girls that have been out here, which is awesome.  It's great for the Tour.  But people are just stronger and smarter and just better.   
Yeah, I mean, the LPGA and PGA Tour I think the scores are as low as they've ever been.   
 Q.  Let's talk about this season; 20 tournaments, you've missed the cut in four, had five top 10s, you've won the U.S. Women's Open, No. 5 or 6 on the Money List.  A lot of people would say that's been a successful season.  It's been a bit up and down for you.  How would you rate your season so far?  
BRITTANY LANG: Well, it's been great.  Up until the U.S. Open I was really happy with where everything was, and obviously with the win at the U.S. Open just kind of makes you feel good because you know what you're working on is working, the things I've been working on physically and mentally.  But I just think it was a huge breakthrough for me just to be under that kind of pressure and be calm and do it.  I just kind of told myself, just prove to yourself, you just have to kind reminding yourself that you did it.   
But yeah, I think in my career it was just the absolute best thing that could have happened to me and the biggest breakthrough because now I know when I'm in that situation I can handle it.  I want to be a little bit more consistent because I know I'm not the most consistent, and I want to be, and I'm still trying to figure out how to do that.  Yeah, I don't have the answer on that, but I would love to be more consistent like a Stacy Lewis or a Lydia Ko when they don't have their best should have, they're still shooting around even par, a couple under, and I need to get better at that.   
 Q.  We all know golf is an individual sport, yet there's a team game.  You played in the Solheim Cup, I think it was your third time, and it was a great comeback by the U.S. in 2015.  What was it like in the 2015 tournament?  
BRITTANY LANG: Yeah, it was so special.  Germany was awesome.  I've played in four Solheims and I've played good in some and not great in some.  I didn't play too well in Germany, but for the team to come back like that and get that win, especially over in Europe, it was amazing.  The girls played so good and it was such a fun experience.   
 Q.  Obviously you get a bond with these teammates that are kind of your -- not enemies but competitors during the regular season here.  Do you carry those friendships throughout the year?  
BRITTANY LANG: Yeah.  You know, the American girls, we've known each other since we were -- like I played high school golf with Stacy Lewis.  I've known these girls forever, and yes, we're all really close.  We've known each other for so long, and to get to play with your friends is a blast.  But yeah, we stay super close throughout the year because this is where you spend most of your time, so this is where you make your friends.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT