RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
July 27, 2016
Brittany Lang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








COLIN CALLANDER: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen.  We have Brittany Lang with us, the U.S. Open champion.  It must be slightly different coming in here as a major champion?
BRITTANY LANG: Yeah, it definitely is.  I definitely feel more confident.  Just excited to get going for the British.  I haven't played one as a U.S. Open champ.  My game is good and I like the golf course, so I'm excited.
Q. You must be a bit tired coming into here?
BRITTANY LANG: Yeah, it's definitely tiring.  Lot more demands and everybody is congratulating you, which is great.  But it's a new world.
Q. You had a chance to play the course, anything in particular suit your eye?
BRITTANY LANG: It's a typical American golf course, really.  Pretty soft, slow today.  Good layout.  The greens are tricky.  They are tough.  But it's a great layout, a lot of character, some holes you can really take advantage of with wedges and short irons.  But I think driving the ball will be important this week.
Q. Did you expect this sort of course when you came here?
BRITTANY LANG: People had told us.  Couple of the caddies had been here and told us what it was like.  It's kind of fun to play links golf.  This is just like the rest of our tour.
Q. Do you feel you've sort of balanced the (indiscernible) a little bit?  You are the first over 30 to win a major this year in America?
BRITTANY LANG: Yeah, that just sounds crazy to me.  Yeah, I guess so.  We do have so many great players that are 30 and older.  We have a ton of them.  But the talent keeps getting younger and younger, and better and better, which is great for our tour.
I would say Stacy Lewis had a good quote, there is room for 30-year-olds on this tour, which is kind of funny.  She's been playing well and hopefully some of us older ladies can hold our own out here.
Q. Do you think that your way of doing things and your generation's way of doing thing, going to university for two years, is now not necessarily going to be the thing to do?  Some of these girls are turning pro after amateur games?
BRITTANY LANG: I mean, there's so many different avenues to get to the Tour.  I know Brittany Lincicome and Paula Creamer, they are my generation and they didn't go to school.  I went two years.  Morgan didn't go to school.
It seems like the Korean girls don't go to college and they play over on the Korean Tour for so long and then they come here as a rookie and they've already played five years professional, and they are a rooky out here and they make it look so easy to win.  You can't forget they've played a lot of pro golf over there and learned to win over there.
I don't know, there's so many roads to get there.  A degree is important.  I don't necessarily think everybody is going to not go to college.
Q. Have you changed since winning your first major?  Do you feel more pressure?  What is your take on the whole thing?
BRITTANY LANG: Well, I'm excited.  It's a huge -- it's biggest thing of my career I've ever done.  I'm really excited.  It's funny, I played in the Marathon tournament the week after.  My game was the same, obviously.  I was super excited to play.  You get a little bit out of your process, I think, because you are so excited.  You get win on a big stage and you kind of get ahead of yourself.  I think I need to definitely be confident that I did it, but you've got to get back to one shot at a time, which I didn't do very well with the next week.  But I'm excited because I know I can handle the situation.
Q. Did you actually sit down perhaps and write out new goals?
BRITTANY LANG: No, I didn't sit down and write any goals, even though I did achieve a lot of them that week in California.  My goals are usually more process-related anyway because it's great to think about what you want to achieve as an outcome, but the more important things are how are you going to do it.
Q. The U.S. Women's Open, you practically won it as an amateur.  When you did come so close so early, did you it lead you to believe that that would be an event that you breakthrough in?  Was there any frustration that it didn't happen right away?
BRITTANY LANG: Cherry Hills was my first showing at a U.S. Women's Open.  I feel like people kind of pegged me as someone who would win an Open because I was such a good ball striker, high ball striker, solid ball striker, long.
I wouldn't say I was frustrated.  I love the U.S. Open, toughest test in women's golf.  No, I was definitely not inpatient.  Very thankful for last week for sure.
Q. How would you describe your temperament?
BRITTANY LANG: Calm.
Q. On or off course?
BRITTANY LANG: What's that?
Q. Off course and on course, what are you like?  Are you a calm individual always or what?
BRITTANY LANG: I would say I'm fairly calm.  If something really gets to me, it takes a lot to get me mad and upset, if it's something I'm really passionate about.  There's not a whole lot that's really going to get me too mad.  I'm pretty calm, easy going, just want to have fun, I would say.
Q. How do you think that (inaudible)?
BRITTANY LANG: You know what, I'm surprised.  I was about as calm as I have ever been on the golf course.  I was so enthralled in my process and so proud of myself for doing it that I was so calm.  Just a flat line.  I was not shaking or nervous.  I was a little bit nervous on 18 in regulation, but other than that I was just super into my process and super calm.  And it was so cool to be in a situation like that and be so calm.
Q. Was there anything in particular you did?
BRITTANY LANG: Yeah, I really made sure that I kind of stayed inside myself, meaning just looking at my foot steps, my own breath, just feeling my feet.  Just being right there with me and not outside my body to kind of stay right there and not get ahead of myself.
Q. It had been a slow year for the Americans, Lexi the only one who had won, and then you won the U.S. Women's Open and then the Americans win the International Crown.  How much did that mean to Americans?  You probably were getting criticized for not winning.
BRITTANY LANG: We've talked about it a lot.  All of my Solheim girls and my American friends were there supporting me.  They were so excited.  They were excited for an American to win the U.S. Open.  We were texting back and forth, we were very excited for them winning International Crown.
You're right, after Germany winning -- the U.S. winning there, we haven't had a whole lot since Lexi.  I think it's definitely a step in the right direction.  These girls are good so we've got to work harder.
COLIN CALLANDER: Brittany, thank you very much.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT