MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 13, 2016
Brittany Lang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We are happy to be joined in the media center here at the marathon classic with Rolex Rankings No. 20 now, Brittany Lang, and major champion can go in front of your name these days.  What's that like?   
BRITTANY LANG: Well, the first time I heard it was this morning, and I was smiling so big.  They said, you know, Solheim participate, winner, and then Manulife winner, and then they said major champion, and I was smiling teeing off.  It was a dream come true.  It's pretty special.   
THE MODERATOR: Take us back to the feeling on the 18th green once you sink the putt and you realize you've won the U.S. Women's Open, won your first major championship and your second career LPGA victory.   
BRITTANY LANG: Yeah, to know I can hit a ball from 90 yards on the green and two-putt and I have a Women's Open, I mean, it's a great feeling because there's not a whole lot of pressure on you.  It was pretty special to have my family there.  I don't know, it was like a dream, to think that I could just hit it on the green and two-putt, and there's your U.S. Women's Open Championship.  It's special.   
THE MODERATOR: And kind of nice to have the entire family there; what was the celebration like afterwards and the days that followed up until arrived here in Ohio?   
BRITTANY LANG: Yeah, we were at the course until about 9:00.  The coolest part was we were in a back room, just my family and I, just having a drink and just talking about it with the trophy sitting right there.  That was pretty cool.  And then we went into the bar and I was with all my girls, Paula and Morgan and Brittany, and they were all in there, and it was just a really special moment to have the trophy sitting there, just having fun with all my friends and family.   
THE MODERATOR: You said you felt like you had underachieved to this point in your career, and that this would be somewhat of a boost moving forward.  Do you feel like that as you practice in preparation for this tournament, that you've kind of got that extra little bit of confidence heading into the next event?   
BRITTANY LANG: Yeah, for sure.  I was actually talking to Kay about this.  I definitely feel like I have underachieved in my career.  I feel like I have so much physical talent, and I didn't quite have the mental talent, and I've been working super hard the last few years just getting a strong mind on where I want the ball to go and not worrying so much about outcome and pressure.  I proved that I could do it at a big stage.  It definitely gives me a lot of confidence, and I'm excited to play from here on out because it's the biggest move of my career, and I really think it's going to boost me to win more tournaments.   
THE MODERATOR: This will be your 10th start here in your career.  You have two top-six finishes here, some other solid results, as well.  What do you like about this course or this event in particular?   
BRITTANY LANG: Yeah, this is a great event.  This was my first event as a pro, and Judd Silverman and Toledo, they've done so much for my career.  I'm thankful for that.  They gave me my first start.  They gave me an exemption when I was an amateur, so I've played here -- I have a lot of family and friends here.  Marathon has done such a great job taking over, and it's a great course.  It's in good shape.  It's firm this year, and unless we get some rain, it's playing a lot different.   
THE MODERATOR: After your win, you were the oldest winner on Tour this year and only the second American to win this year.  Do you think you're taking the reins back a little bit for the veterans on Tour and the Americans, as well?   
BRITTANY LANG: That's really hard to believe.  I'm 30 years old.  I'm the oldest winner.  But yeah, I mean, the girls out on Tour, they just keep getting younger and younger and better and better, and you've got to keep making changes to get better because they're fearless and they're young and they're really good.  Yeah, I think it was great for an American to win the U.S. Open.  I could really feel the crowd behind me.   
 Q.  That final round at the U.S. Open, did that just feel different from any other round maybe that you've played?  
BRITTANY LANG: Yeah.  You know, I felt super in control.  I wasn't super nervous, and I wasn't super excited.  I felt really in control of what I was doing.  I felt really committed and decisive, and I felt like I could get it done.  I felt like I was really in control of my game and my emotions, which if you want to win, that's what you have to do.   
Yeah, I felt just really in control and really committed to my process.   
 Q.  After such a great victory last week, how do you compose yourself to play your best this week, and what are your thoughts coming into this event right after winning a major?  
BRITTANY LANG: Yeah, you know, a lot of people have said, I can't believe you're playing this week, and I think that's kind of silly because this is a great tournament, and I'm not going to withdraw just because I won one tournament.  I want to be great, and to do that you've got to win a lot, not just a couple times.   
I have a lot of confidence, especially after last week, knowing that in a pressure situation I could get it done.  It gives me a lot of confidence.  I know my game is in really good shape, and I know that if I happen to get into contention that I can get it done, so it definitely gives me a lot of confidence.   
 Q.  You mentioned how calm you were in that final round; any particular segment of your game, whether it was driving the ball, ball-striking, putting, short game, anything you think that really was the key to propelling you to that calmness?  
BRITTANY LANG: Yeah.  I had made a couple changes with my setup a few weeks ago.  I've been just trying to do the core things, just been trying to get set up properly, and when I do that, I'm able to take a pretty good rip at it, and I know that I'm going to get my ball flight, and that sure gives you a lot of confidence when you know, okay, if I set up this way and do this, I'm going to hit my ball flight.  So you're really in control of what you're doing.  You can swing aggressively, no reason to be nervous, because you know where the ball is going.   
And then putting, I've been putting probably the best I've ever putted in my life, just working on alignment and staying down.  I would say with those two things, it makes it pretty easy to play good golf because I feel like I know what I'm doing.   
 Q.  You mentioned conditions out here being fast and hard.  The difference between playing golf this week in Ohio and humid temperatures as opposed to California there in wine country?  
BRITTANY LANG: Yeah, it is firm out there.  It's not quite as firm and maybe like an afternoon there at CordeValle, but yeah, it's pretty hot and humid.  But the court is in great shape.  I would say the fairways are a little bit firmer, which is good.  Makes it play shorter.  You might have to hit some shorter clubs on some of the tees.  But it's in good shape.  Hopefully we don't get any rain because you can definitely score out there.   
 Q.  You said you wanted to work on your mental game, that that would be a turning point.  How do you work on that?  It's easy physically, but what do you do mentally?  
BRITTANY LANG: So for instance, like you see what kind of a shot you want to hit.  You see it in your mind, and then working on having 100 percent commitment to the shot, and those are really my two things.  Really seeing the ball go in the hole, commit to the line, commit to what you're doing, because if you've ever played golf, you know it's easy to not commit to your line, not commit to your shot, and that's where you get really bad shots.  So those two things, believing in yourself, having confidence, seeing your shots, seeing success, and just having full commitment.   
THE MODERATOR: Five top 10s in 2016, including that win last week.  Good luck to you this week moving forward.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT