U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN
December 8, 2020
Brittany Lang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   Please join me in welcoming 2016 Texas native Brittany Lang.  Brittany has a long history with the championship, earning a runner-up finish as an amateur in 2005.  She is making her 16th U.S. Women's Open appearance.  When I say that, what comes to mind?
BRITTANY LANG:   It's crazy.  I take pride in it.  You know, it's hard.  Watching Angela win last week, that's pretty special to have staying power like that.  I take pride in it, even though I'm not quite to her level.  But it's really special.
THE MODERATOR:   What does it mean to have the Women's Open here in your home state?
BRITTANY LANG:   It's awesome.  It was so great to drive down.  The course is great.  It's in great shape.  I've never played a U.S. Open in Texas, so it's cool.
Q. Your familiarity with the course here, the Burkes.  Talk a little bit about Champions.
BRITTANY LANG:   I am not super familiar with this golf course.  I have been here.  My caddie, however, is.  He grew up playing here a little bit, which is helpful.  I was supposed to come down and play it, and something was bothering me, my arm was bothering me, and I wasn't able to come down.
But I saw it today and it's pretty straightforward.  So, yeah.
Q. What's been your strategy?  What did you play yesterday, today?  Did you play 18 yesterday?
BRITTANY LANG:   I didn't play yesterday.  I just drove up yesterday.  Yeah, I was tired after Dallas.  That was a grind.  I was just really tired and I want to be fresh and my caddie knows the course and we get yesterday and today.  It's plenty for me.
But yeah, I loved it.  A lot of drivers off the tee, which I think is great.  A lot of character.  Greens are massive, so a lot of long putts.  And they're fast, so a lot of -- probably a lot of 10-feet-and-in putts for par and long lag putts.
Q. What's the preparation adjustment when it comes to playing two golf courses?
BRITTANY LANG:   Yeah, it's tough.  The U.S. Open week is normally really tough in itself with one course, but this is difficult, especially coming off Dallas playing six, seven days in a row there.
But since we're playing Cypress three times we played 18 there today to get a feel for it.  We were planning on playing more, but I was just a little tired yesterday.  And then tomorrow we're going to play Jackrabbit nine holes and then walk the other nine, just try to get some rest because it's a long week.  Just makes it a little bit more strenuous.
Q. Some of the PGA TOUR players have been showing their support online this week, having an off week themselves.  What does that do to the women's game to have the male golfers show that sort of public support?
BRITTANY LANG:   Oh, it's fantastic.  It's really cool when the guys do that.  It just brings people in, gives the girls a little bit more respect, I think, because a lot of the time I don't think we get it.
But yeah, it's great because their followers or people in touch with them will start tuning in, and it's great that they have an off week to put the spotlight on us.
Q. Between last week or this week, do you feel extra pressure when you're playing here in Texas?
BRITTANY LANG:   A little bit.  I try to lower my expectations because you get pretty excited.  You have a lot of family and you want to win, you want to play so well and do well.
But I've learned to calm down a little bit and lower my expectations.  It's just fun to be in Texas.
Q. Did you ever think you'd come to a major and not play every hole before you teed it up on Thursday?
BRITTANY LANG:   It never would have entered my mind, no.  But with 2020 going the way it is anything can happen, so we're just rolling with the punches.
Q. Do you think younger Brittany could handle that or is the maturity --
BRITTANY LANG:   I think younger Brittany had a lot more energy, so she would have played it multiple, multiple times.  But older Brittany is a little more tired.
Q. And therefore not mentally freaking out about it?
BRITTANY LANG:   Correct, and that's okay.  Now that I'm a mother and I'm considered old out here, I'm going to take a breather.
Q. Who's going to be here this week with you?
BRITTANY LANG:   Kevin is here, my husband, my mom, my dad, my mother-in-law, my daughter.  Yeah, nice little lineup.
Q. Does your preparation change at all whenever you're putting on Bermuda greens as opposed to a course with bentgrass?
BRITTANY LANG:   Yeah, I think you hit a lot more long putts because you get so many putts into the grain, downgrain.  These greens have a lot of subtle breaks, so yeah, way more lag putting in my opinion on Bermuda.
Because bentgrass they're pretty much the same.  You know, uphill, downhill, they're pretty basic.  These are a little bit trickier, so, yeah, I think a little bit more work on the greens.
Q. The USGA launched a #womenworthwatching campaign to shine a brighter light on women's golf in general.  What does it mean to have the governing body do something like that, especially around a week like this?
BRITTANY LANG:   Oh, it's fantastic.  I love that.  KPMG has also got on board with things like that, and it's so great for junior girls and girls' golf and women's golf, like I said earlier, just to give them the respect that they deserve.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT