U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 7, 2016
Brittany Lang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk about your day.  
BRITTANY LANG: It warmed up little bit.  But I wasn't hitting it very solid on the back, which was my front nine.  And I opened up my stance a little bit, I started hitting it really, really solid and started hitting better iron shots.  And I've been putting pretty good, so I was rolling a few in there.   
 Q.  How do you feel about your game?  
BRITTANY LANG: Really good.  I felt great for a long time.  I was probably the most prepared and the best I felt about my game probably ever.  But I'm just trying to stick with my process.   
But everything I'm doing right now seems to be working, so I'm just trying to do everything, work the process.   
 Q.  With it heating up, do you find things are firming up?  
BRITTANY LANG: They are firmer, but you can really hit some long drives in the fairways and get some short clubs.  I think the scores in the afternoon will be low.  It's hard to play in the mornings, it plays so long.   
I hit a 5-wood into hole 10, and I'm not a particularly short hitter.  You can hit an 8-iron into that hole.  It's crazy the difference from morning to afternoon.   
 Q.  You've had a couple of really good results at majors before, how do you take that next step?  
BRITTANY LANG: Yeah, we have a lot of great tournaments on the LPGA Tour, but this is definitely my favorite, for sure, hands down, the U.S. Open.  I love the USGA and how they set up the course.  But I really can't be thinking about that right now.  So I've just got to keep working on what I've been doing, just enjoy it and have some fun.   
 Q.  Are you a scoreboard watcher?  
BRITTANY LANG: I've tried that and it hasn't worked out well for me.  So I try not to look at it.  Didn't look at it one -- it takes a lot of self control and discipline not to look at it, but it's Thursday, so I don't know what you're looking at.   
But, no, I don't look at them.   
 Q.  But (inaudible.)  
BRITTANY LANG: I think so, I could be wrong.  But I feel the girls are going to hit it so far this afternoon.  The fairways run out so much.  The greens get a little firmer and faster.  The course is in great shape, I think the girls are really going to finish well this afternoon.   
 Q.  Does that make you more aggressive?  
BRITTANY LANG: Yeah, for sure.  I was jacked to come in and see that girls were 6 and 5.  When I played my practice rounds here, I thought the scores were going to be low, I didn't want to say it, you don't want to jinx yourself.  The course is definitely not easy by my means.  But for a U.S. Open, if feels like you can really make some birdies and score and get at some of the pins.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT