KIA CLASSIC
March 25, 2016
Brittany Lang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Brittany, you're in contention again.  How does it feel after a round like this?
BRITTANY LANG: It feels really good, especially to have a bogey-free round out there in the afternoon.  Again, super sharp.  I was swinging really good at it and made some nice putts coming in.  Stayed aggressive.  Feels really good to be in contention again.
Q. You mentioned earlier, your brother, Luke, on the bag has been a big help for you with alignment.  Can you talk about his impact on what you've been doing?
BRITTANY LANG: I've worked with some really great coaches and I still implement all the things they have helped me with.  I've been without a coach for a couple years and I just rely on Luke and I've just been working on simple things, intermediate targets, line on the ball, staying down, commitment to my shots.
Just really basic, simple things, and I think I'm really mastering it right now, and getting really about committing to shots and going out and doing it, which is really exciting.  Each day I try to tee it up to see how many shots I can commit to.
Q. Was there an "A-ha" moment where you started to feel like this was the moment you started to master it?
BRITTANY LANG: I had a good off-season and I think in the Bahamas when I shot 7- or 8-under the last day, and then I shot 7-under in Singapore, I knew there was some low scores there early.  And then Phoenix last week was really cool to play that consistently well and I was like, well, it's working.  Just stick to it and go deeper and deeper with it.
Q. Plans for this weekend on the course?
BRITTANY LANG: Just going to play a little golf and try to make a lot of birdies.  But I'm excited.  I want to put myself in this position more often, but I've got to go out and make a lot of birdies and keep doing what I'm doing just seeing my shots, commit to what I'm doing.  Just keep believing in myself and hopefully I'll have a good weekend.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT