JTBC FOUNDERS CUP
March 17, 2016
Brittany Lang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 63, that's all you got?
BRITTANY LANG: I shot 7-under in Singapore on Sunday, and I just felt like -- I don't know.  I just felt like I needed to get back to one shot at a time, and I felt like I was thinking too much about stuff that doesn't matter, and I've been working on my alignment with my swing, and I had excellent balance all day, just hitting my finish and staying down in my putts and just really seeing what I wanted and was super confident and decisive today.  So pretty much everything was working.
Q. What have you been working on with the alignment?  Were you getting too close, too open?  What was the story there?
BRITTANY LANG: Just working on my intermediate target.  I don't line myself up very well, so Luke's been helping me with the intermediate, seeing it, setup and go from there?
Q. Tied a career low today.  And the Dukies won in the first round.
BRITTANY LANG: Did they win?  I wasn't sure.
Q. Solid day; right?
BRITTANY LANG: We haven't had a good run, Luke and I, when we're on the course when the Dukies play, so this is big.  That's bigger than 63.
Q. So good sign for the rest of the week then, huh?
BRITTANY LANG: It is a good sign.
Q. They were down three at the half, though.
BRITTANY LANG: They're going to have to play some good basketball to win, though.  I don't know if it's quite like last year.
Q. Did you pick them?
BRITTANY LANG: I actually didn't fill out a bracket this year.  I won last year.  I gotta ride high on that.
Q. It seems like when you get it going early that you kind of keep it going for the rest of the week.  I know you said out here you gotta keep your foot on the pedal.  9-under and you're tied for the lead.  Did you expect that?
BRITTANY LANG: Yes.  On the LPGA nowadays, yes.  You know what, if you're 5, 6, 7 out here, it doesn't matter.  You gotta keep making birdies because these girls are so good, so, so good, and I missed like a three-footer for a birdie on 5, and I was really not happy about that.  And I made like five birdies in a row after that.  So I was pretty pleased with that.  Can't be missing three-footers.
Q. You putted pretty good the rest of the day, though.
BRITTANY LANG: I putted great all day.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT