HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 25, 2016
Brittany Lang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I want to first ask you about the 10-year award that you guys got.  
BRITTANY LANG: That's pretty cool.   
 Q.  They made me look to up to see who did it.  Pettersen and Lang.  
BRITTANY LANG: We're the only two?   
 Q.  Yeah, the only two that played all of them.  Everybody else took a year off.  Were you surprised?  
BRITTANY LANG: Yeah, I was.  I thought there would have been a lot more people, but I always like coming over here, Thailand.  I always liked the tournament.  Even when it was at Amata Springs, that was a good course, and here has been good, and I love the heat, so I always play well.   
 Q.  Well, after nine years of playing this, you obviously know the course pretty well -- well, eight years, I guess.  What was working for you today?  
BRITTANY LANG: Yeah, you know, I had a really, really good two weeks of preparation at home.  I was really excited with -- I just was working on some things with Luke, mostly just basic things like my alignment and staying down in my putts, and for the most part I did it 100 percent today, so what we were working on was good, just alignment with swing, alignment with putting, and just staying down on all my shots, and it was really, really good.   
 Q.  Did you regroup at all after the missed cut at Coates?  Did you get back to basics?  
BRITTANY LANG: Yeah, I played really good in the Bahamas and I played really good the first day in Ocala.  That was a little bit of an unfair swap.  We came out and played in freaking 35-degree weather and those other girls played in like 60, 70.  That was just so lopsided.  I had on three pairs of pants and four jackets.  I mean, it was no excuse for shooting as bad as I did, but it was tough, where I think some of the girls playing the same round, we were hitting like hybrids into -- I remember I hit a 3-wood into a par-4, and those girls were probably hitting 8-irons, 7-irons.  It's just how it goes sometimes.  I didn't really think a whole lot about it.   
 Q.  Any birdies that stuck out today?  
BRITTANY LANG: Yeah.  My first birdie was on 12, par-3, just a good iron shot and a good putt.  Like I said, I was just staying in my putts, and even when I wasn't making them, they were good rolls, so I know I was aiming well and staying in them.  17 was a really good birdie.  That was probably the best one of the day.   
 Q.  How long was that?  
BRITTANY LANG: I hit a 3-wood and a 6-iron to like 12 feet, which I just always think that's a good birdie if you can birdie 17 because it can be a tricky green.   
 Q.  How important is it to get off to a quick start here?  
BRITTANY LANG: Yeah, it's really important, and I bogeyed my last hole, which was very disappointing, but I mean, 3-under is still a good start.  I like what I'm doing.  I obviously wish I would have not bogeyed the last, of course, but I know I'm on the right track, so I just need to --   
 Q.  You'll get over it?  
BRITTANY LANG: Yeah, I need to just keep swinging aggressive, playing aggressive, start on the first hole tomorrow because the scores can get real low.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT