MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 18, 2015
Brittany Lang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Run us through the first pitch last night. 
BRITTANY LANG:   Oh, yeah.   I was like, What? 
Yeah, it was really cool.   I've never one done it before.   Never been to the Mud Hens Stadium.   I went with all our friends here.   We had a blast.   My brother came. 
I thought you would be nervous, but I really wasn't that nervous.   It was fun. 

Q.   Did you throw a strike?
BRITTANY LANG:   Of course I threw a strike.   (Laughter.)   It was a little high.   They told me to make sure I get over the plate, so it was definitely high.

Q.   Did you practice at all in advance?
BRITTANY LANG:   I did practice. 

Q.   You did. 
BRITTANY LANG:   Yeah.   My brother showed up with the gloves and the ball, so we threw a few times. 

Q.   You play softball or anything growing up?
BRITTANY LANG:   I played a little bit of everything growing up.   Yeah, played a lot of sports.

Q.   Talk about today and shooting yourself back into the heart of this thing. 
BRITTANY LANG:   Yeah, that was awesome to finish like that.   I've been hitting it and rolling it, I've been playing really good.   I played good at the Open.
Been rolling it good and finally got a few to drop.   Started hitting my irons better.   Because I've been driving it good and putting good, but my irons haven't been that sharp. 
Towards the back nine there my irons were really good. 

Q.   Talk about the finish at 18. 
BRITTANY LANG:   Yeah, still some great crowds for the weather today.   Always fun here in Toledo.   I like this course, too.   To finish with a tap‑in birdie is pretty nice.

Q.   Does what you did at Manulife give you some confidence heading into tomorrow knowing you can come from behind?
BRITTANY LANG:   Oh, yeah, for sure.   That was a huge confidence booster knowing under pressure that I could hit those kind of shots and just play that quality of golf.
For sure I'm just going to try to keep doing what I'm doing tomorrow. 

Q.   You're on the verge of Solheim Cup.   How much are you thinking about that right now?
BRITTANY LANG:   Probably a little more than I should be.   I probably should be focusing on my golf, which I did today.
But the Solheim Cup is very important.   It's the must fun you'll have ever.   I just know if I focus on what I'm doing out there it'll take care of itself. 

Q.   Had a pretty hot, humid day today.   How do you prepare yourself and manage yourself for days like this?
BRITTANY LANG:   Well, you wear black.   That helps.   No, I had an outfit planned out, so I had to go with it.   I had a Sunbrella out there and lots of electrolyte drinks, Gatorade, water.
But it's nice now.   Not too bad now.   It was really hot earlier.   Just trying to get into the shade.   But I'm used to it.   It's hotter in Texas. 

Q.   What is the hottest tournament you've played in?
BRITTANY LANG:   We play in Malaysia and Thailand which are both really, really hot places.
But actually when we played the U.S. Open in Wisconsin, that was the hottest I've ever been, yeah. 

Q.   How did you maintain your concentration today?
BRITTANY LANG:   You know, I got done and I went right to the fitness trailer, because I hate sitting down and getting tight.   So I went right it in there and hopped on the elliptical and walked and stretched and kept moving the whole time.
Kept a good frame of mind.

Q.   What's turned in your game recently, last couple months?
BRITTANY LANG:   You know, I've been doing a lot of really good things for a longest time.   I just hadn't put it all together.
I think probably commitment.   I'm really committing to what I'm doing:   committing to my shots, committing to my lines on my putts.   Just commitment and just believing in myself a little bit more. 
But, yeah, I play well this time of year.   Just getting comfortable playing tournaments, so just commitment.

Q.   Politicking with Juli at all?   Brown nosing with Juli?
BRITTANY LANG:   No, Juli knows what she's getting with me.   Not doing anything special.   Just trying to play good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT