LPGA DRIVE ON CHAMPIONSHIP
August 2, 2020
Brittany Lang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So here with Brittany Lang after a consistent three rounds.  First LPGA Tour event back after having your baby.
How does it feel to be back?
BRITTANY LANG:   Oh, my gosh, it feels so good.  I think just being back out has been so fun seeing everybody and getting Shay into the daycare and everything, so playing well is just such a bonus.
Gives me a little bit of confidence to start the year as a new mom.
Q. You did participate in the Texas Women's Open before coming out here.
BRITTANY LANG:   Uh-huh.
Q. So what was quarantine like for you in kind of reconditioning for play after having Shay?
BRITTANY LANG:   Yeah, I had Shay January 23rd, so it was right before this hit.  It was great for our family just because I needed to heal and get strong and Shay, it was good that Shay learned to sleep through the night before we got out here.
So it's been great for our family.  We feel for people around the world that have suffered, but for us, the time at home has been really nice.
Q. A major champion yourself, how did it feel to come back and play these three rounds at a major championship golf course like Inverness?
BRITTANY LANG:   I love courses like this up in the north that are beautiful.  They're so green, so pure.  It's not so hot.  It's so hot back home.
But you step on this course, you know right away:  Championship style golf course.  You can just tell.  We played the 1st hole in the practice round; you can tell right away.  So pure.  Just great layout.  And I love playing courses like this.
Q. You've got a special person on the bag with you this week.  Take us through what came about when you decided to have your husband on the bag?
BRITTANY LANG:   I do.  Oh, my goodness.  There has been a lot of moving parts.  I had hired somebody and he was from Hawaii and they had a hurricane hit there, so after I'm getting ready to pack Shay and get everything going, he tells me he can't make it because of the hurricane, making sure him and his family are safe.
So then I'm scrambling.  Okay.  Kevin was already coming to help me.  I'm like, Kevin, you're on the bag.  I don't want to seek out anymore things.  You're on the bag.  I'll being comfortable.  You know what I mean?  Not to have a new person on the bag, scrambling.
Kevin is a good player.  He obviously knows what he's doing.  He was very helpful.  That was our first LPGA event, so it was really fun.
Q. How would you grade your caddie efforts this week?
BRITTANY LANG:   He did great.  He really did.  We had a blast.  You know, I played really well and he knows his stuff.  He reads the greens great.  We got the numbers together, which was really good.
It was tough week for him with the weather, but I would definitely say we both get an A this week.
Q. Any disagreements out there?
BRITTANY LANG:   You know, I mean, you're always going to have different opinions on stuff.  I've had my brother caddie for me for 14 years and I miss my brother so much.  He got a job at home to be with his daughter and he's doing great.
But it was nice for something different.  You know, just different -- just something different with yardages and something new.  Kind of wakes you up sort of.  We did great.  We just gelled really well together.
Q. How long after the baby did you start playing again?
BRITTANY LANG:   I started shipping and putting when she was four weeks old, and then I hit my first ball when she was six weeks old.  I had a C-section, so I was a little hesitant to go full bore.  That's why this time was a blessing.  I think I took my time, I didn't jump in, I took my time, I worked out hard and got strong.
So I think my body has healed really nicely and I feel really strong.
Q. What kind of expectations did you have coming into this?  You obviously played the Texas Women's Open so had already --
BRITTANY LANG:   I played another event as well.  I played two pro events.  I liked where everything was.  The last few weeks kind of got a little bit back into my mental aspect of golf, which is what I needed.  I think physically everything was good, and I started really focusing on seeing shots and committing and getting back into the mental grind of it.
And I knew I was playing well, but you never want to have too much expectation.  So I tried to calm myself and just say, Hey, first time mom, first time back.  Let's just have some fun and try to do our best.
Q. What are your nights like when you leave the course this week?
BRITTANY LANG:   You know, Shay is really good.  She's a really good baby.  But like right now, we will go right to the daycare, which is by Highland Meadows.  We'll go right there, pick her up, go back, get dinner, get her fed, bathed, settled.
It's a lot of work, as moms know around the world.  I was a little nervous traveling with her, and then you're tired after you play golf, but then you have to be a mom.  Like you have to be on.
So I'm a little nervous about that because I want to be able to give her my all but also still play.  So we'll see how it goes.  Because she deserves my best, so we'll see how everything goes.
Q. Did you fly here?
BRITTANY LANG:   We did.
Q. She did good on the plane?
BRITTANY LANG:   She did.  She's a great baby.  She really is.  She's so good.
Q. What is kind of a finish and what the two of you were able to do this week, what does that do for your confidence going into next week?
BRITTANY LANG:   Oh, my gosh, so much.  It does a lot.  That's why when I put Kevin on the bag I was comfortable.  He knows golf.  He knows me.  He has a good perspective on being more aggressive, and that's why I think it was helpful for me.
Where maybe I might hit a 7-iron, he gets me to hit a 6-iron and I get a little closer to the hole.  Like just to keep getting me aggressive.
But just having a familiar face, it gives me so much confidence moving forward to have a good finish for sure.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT