REIGNWOOD LPGA CLASSIC
October 3, 2014
Brittany Lang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   Brittany, welcome to join us.
    BRITTANY LANG:   Thank you.

Q.   Low round today, tied with BRITTANY LANG for low of the day, 66, despite that narrow miss on 18.   What was working so well for you out there today?
    BRITTANY LANG:   Yeah, I played really well.   I like this course a lot.   I didn't get off to the start that I would've liked to.   I stuck it close on 2 and missed it, or capitalizing early.
    Made a really good par save on 6 and then from there just made a ton of birdies.   I started dialing in my irons and hitting them close.   I've been hitting my putter really good for a while now, so kind of an easy, fun day. 

Q.   Suzann described this course as very scorable.   Did you think so, too?   Particularly what do you like about this course?   How have you avoided trouble if you still do see trouble out there? 
    BRITTANY LANG:   Yeah, it's a very scorable course.   It's a good golf course.   It really is.   It's in great shape and every hole is good.
    I like it because you can hit driver a lot.   The fairways are pretty generous so you can hit driver.   I like courses where you can do that rather than hit 3‑woods or hybrids. 
    Yeah, I got in a little bit of trouble on a couple of the holes, but I think in the waste bunkers you just have to chip out and try to get a putt for par and not get too cute out here.
    You're going to make a lot of birdies, so minimize that. 

Q.   You were paired with Mirim Lee today who also played very, very well.   Did you feed off her play at all?
    BRITTANY LANG:   Yeah, she did play great.   First time playing with her.   Great player.   We had a really good group with Giulia Sergas and Mirim and myself.   Long hitters and nice pace. 
    Yeah, Mirim made some birdies on the back nine.   When you're watching your playing partners make birdies, it definitely helps you to see it for sure. 

Q.   You haven't been in this position, leading, in the top two, after round two before the weekend round since your win on the Manulife back in 2012.   What's your mindset now heading into the weekend?
    BRITTANY LANG:   Yeah, I haven't, so I'm looking forward to gaining a little more experience.   It has been a while since I've been in that position.
    You know, I'm just working on a few different things.   Just trying to have a good attitude and enjoy myself out there, and just a few other process goals.
    I think it'll be good experience this weekend to make sure when the excitement hits to really pull myself back.   You got to keep working on it if you want to be one of the great players out here. 
    It's going to be a good experience for me regardless of what happens to just get some practice with it for sure. 

Q.   We are familiar with a lot of great names on the LPGA Tour from America.   Stacy and of course yourself are just a few of them we see this time around in Beijing.   How come more American players choose to stay home or not to come? 
    BRITTANY LANG:   For this event? 

Q.   Yeah. 
    BRITTANY LANG:   I'm not exactly sure.   I know a lot of them came last year, so I don't know.   I think a lot of players don't like staying where you're kind of isolated and you can't go do stuff.   I really like it when you're right here.
    I'm not really sure.   Maybe they don't like the food.   I'm not really sure.

Q.   $2.1 million as the purse money is already the most generous. 
    BRITTANY LANG:   It's a big purse.   It's a great golf course.   I really enjoy playing here.   I would never miss it.
    I'm not sure.   I think some of the U.S. girls like when there is stuff going on around and they can get away from it.   So maybe that's the reason. 

Q.   Going head‑to‑head with Stacy over the weekend, does that feel invigorating or a little bit scary? 
    BRITTANY LANG:   Yeah, I will say it's a little bit intimidating.   I've known Stacy for a long time.   I've known her since being in middle school, high school from Texas.
    She was a late bloomer and college and now a world beater (?)
    We're really good friends though and I have a lot of respect for her on the golf course.   Yeah, definitely going to be out of my element, a little intimidated.
    She's a great player.   But at the same time, I'm trying to get better, too. 
    So playing with her, watching her, and trying to play well and do my thing is going to make me better.   If I could play with her on more weekends, then I'll be doing pretty good.   Maybe I can learn something from watching her. 
    THE MODERATOR:   Thank you very much, Brittany.   Congratulations.   We wish you good luck tomorrow.
    BRITTANY LANG:   Thanks a lot. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT