KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 16, 2014
Brittany Lang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What was today like for you being out there?
BRITTANY LANG:   It was a beautiful day.   I have a lot of friends and family here, so I'm having a lot of fun.   I've been playing really good and working really hard just trying to be confident out there and committed to my shots.   Working on a few things, so good first two days.

Q.   Comfortable position for you to be in right now?
BRITTANY LANG:   Yeah, for sure.   I haven't been up near the top in a while.   Had a top 10 in San Francisco a few weeks back.   Like I said, I've been playing really good, so I am just trying to stick to my process and have some fun with it.

Q.   How you feel going into the weekend?   Good?
BRITTANY LANG:   I feel good.   I feel really good.   I've had so many opportunities this week.   It's one of those courses where you have a million opportunities.   You have to stay positive.
Go work on my putting a little bit and roll a few more in this weekend.

Q.   Really got it going early:   three birdies I guess in the first seven holes.   Did you chip one of those in?
BRITTANY LANG:   No, I don't think so.

Q.   So you basically were able to get some good runs at the hole, I guess we could say. 
BRITTANY LANG:   Yeah, I made a long putt on 2 to start the day; about a 15‑footer on 3; then just a tap‑in on the other par‑5s.   Take advantage of the par‑5s.

Q.   And then you bogeyed 14 and then came right back and birdied 15.   That had to be a huge confidence boost coming in. 
BRITTANY LANG:   Yeah, it was.   I hit two great shots and thought it would be a good eagle up and just over the green.   But, yeah, birdie after bogey is key. 

Q.   Is it an advantage not having to play tomorrow the second round as well?
BRITTANY LANG:   Yeah, you know, it all evens out.   We had to wake up early and they wake up early.   It always evens out in the end, but I'll definitely enjoy any rest.

Q.   You said it had been a while since you had been up top there at the midway point.   Do you forget what it feels like, or is it... 
BRITTANY LANG:   No, I've been up there a lot.   I mean, I've won and I've had a lot of seconds and a lot of good finishes.   I've been working really hard on just some certain things, and if I keep working on them I'll be happy come Sunday.
We'll see what happens.

Q.   How did the course and the conditions change?   Driving in this morning it's rainy, windy, cold, miserable, and the course is soaked.   You didn't know about the delay at that point.
BRITTANY LANG:   Yeah, the course is playing way different from yesterday because it was super windy and the greens were firm, and today it's gorgeous with no breeze and the greens are soft. 
So playing right now as opposed to yesterday afternoon is night and day.   Hitting a lot more drivers and a lot more clubs because the fairways are soft, the greens are soft.
Yeah, just one of those things.   You kind roll with it.   Wake up early, tee off at noon, and see how it goes.

Q.   There are a lot of groups that will be teeing off 6:00 and later.   A few anyway.   You're done.   Do you think there is an advantage not having to come back and finish this round tomorrow? 
BRITTANY LANG:   Yeah.   Like I said, I'm enjoying my rest, but over time everything evens out.   Like we played in the wind yesterday; they probably won't play in a whole lot of breeze.   We woke up early and we played at noon; they wake up early...
Like I said, it always evens out in the end. 
I'm not too worried about it.

Q.   You were born in Richmond?
BRITTANY LANG:   I was.

Q.   How long were you here before you moved?
BRITTANY LANG:   Ten years.   Then I moved to Texas.

Q.   Okay.   So you had grade school here?
BRITTANY LANG:   Yeah, elementary, and I think I had maybe just started middle school when we left.

Q.   So is this where you started your golf career. 
BRITTANY LANG:   Yeah, at I started when I was eight at Brandermill Country Club.   That's where I first started, yeah. 

Q.   Still consider yourself a Texan though, right?
BRITTANY LANG:   Definitely, and they get kind of mad at me here in Virginia.   But I've been there for so long, you know, I do. 

Q.   You said a lot of family and friends here.   Some folks come down from Richmond or Brandermill?
BRITTANY LANG:   Yeah, a lot of our family friends came down and are staying here.   Both of my parents are here.   It's a fun week.   A bunch of our friends are down.   Probably 10, 15 people, so it's pretty cool. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT