PURE SILK-BAHAMAS LPGA CLASSIC
January 23, 2014
Brittany Lang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   We are here after the first round of play with Brittany Lang.   Congratulations, a great 4‑under par round today.   What was really working well for you today?  
BRITTANY LANG:   Yeah, it was a good day.   I was a little bit nervous, first round of the year, after not playing in a tournament for so long, but I had a great off‑season.   I wasn't swinging super aggressive early on and had a couple loose shots, birdied my third hole today, which was 12, and then I hit it in the water on 13 because I just wasn't swinging aggressively.   But after that I made double on 13, but after that it was just great shots, super focused, rolling it great, swinging more aggressively and just played super solid.   I'm very happy it being the first round of the year.  
   
 Q.   Short off‑season for everyone but particularly short for you getting ready for your wedding a couple weeks ago.   Take us through that.   What's it like coming off one of the greatest moments of your life?   
BRITTANY LANG:   It was.   It was the best day of my life.   I mean, it was perfection.   It was a fairy‑tale.   I had my family from all over, all my friends, Kevin's family, obviously my immediate family.   It was a very special day, and I'm so thankful we had it.   I couldn't be happier.  
   
 Q.   I heard Kevin played in the pro‑am yesterday.   How did he fare out there?   
BRITTANY LANG:   Kevin did great.   He played really well.   He had his music on, smoking his cigars, having a good time.   He played with Natalie's husband, Katherine Hull's husband and Dean from Pure Silk, so I know they had a good time.   If you play with Kevin and don't have a good time, you have a problem because he's just a blast.  
   
 Q.   I can totally understand that one from hanging out with him watching you play.   I just saw you got a little good luck charm from a fan.   Talk about that.   
BRITTANY LANG:   I didn't catch her name, but she gave me a little good luck seashell.   She had a cute little pink outfit on with a pink flamingo shirt.   She was adorable.   She gave me a good luck seashell.   Somebody put it in the bag, and it's going to be an awesome week with this.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT