THE SOLHEIM CUP
August 18, 2013
Brittany Lang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Big point for the U.S., talk me through the match.   I know it got closer towards the end.   You had kind of a bigger lead, and then were able to close it out on 17. 
BRITTANY LANG:   Yeah, I started off very shaky.   I was really amped up and nervous and excited.   I hit some very uncharacteristic shots.   But I settled down on, like the late, on the front nine, and got some confidence.   And I was fortunate that Azahara wasn't playing as good as she normally does.   I got lucky there. 
But, towards the back nine I was starting to hit my shots.   I was hitting it good, I was rolling it good, so I was extremely confident.   I was nervous coming into these last two, but I know I'm playing well, so I just tried to stay with it.

Q.   16, your shot on the green seemed to be a critical one.   Kind of going down that stretch were you thinking, if could I win this hole, especially where Azahara was in front of the green, it would be pretty big?
BRITTANY LANG:   Well, she hit a great chip and a great putt.   I'm thinking, yeah, if I can make birdie here, I can be dormie and she nearly made that.   I couldn't have ran over there fast enough to pick up her ball, I thought she had that.   So I got fortunate there she didn't birdie.   But that was crucial birdieing that hole being dormie, yeah.

Q.   How much have you been paying attention to the leaderboard, or were you kind of focused on the match?
BRITTANY LANG:   I looked at it a little bit.   I saw a lot of red early.   I looked at it a little bit, but I had‑‑ I knew I just had to get a full point for my team.   So that's what I was focused on.

Q.   What was the mood like last night when you guys were in the team room and talking about what kind of, was ahead of you today?   What was the mantra that you guys came up with?
BRITTANY LANG:   Yeah, you know, we have had some things kind of not go our way this week, and we haven't played as well as we would like to.   And they have played very well, they have played great golf.   And we said, we don't have anything to lose.   Just go out there and have fun, take care of your match.   Meg told us just try to get your point, take care of your match, focus on what you're doing.   And she said it doesn't matter, win or lose, we're going to have class and have fun and it's just golf.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT