SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 14, 2011
Brittany Lang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Brittany, congratulations on a 4-under round, tied for the lead. Just take me through the day today and how it went out there, especially with all of the delays?
 BRITTANY LANG: Oh, my gosh. Yeah, I played really solid. I feel like I played a lot better yesterday but really only one shot better. 
 I hit the ball well, not as good as yesterday and I made a couple of long putts and got some momentum, and then we had all of those delays, that was really tough, because I had just come off two birdies and it was 4-under and it was tough to go in after that. I came back out and I didn't hit it that great, just made a couple of pars and that was it. 

 Q. How do you kill time during delays like that?
 BRITTANY LANG: I normally try not to do too much. I just try to sit and relax, just not look on the phone or play cards. I just sit there and talk and hang out with my brother and laugh and just chill.

 Q. In terms of momentum, how do you try to get that momentum back after you have to sit for so long, especially when you've been playing well and you feel like you're on that roll?
 BRITTANY LANG: It's really hard. You come out and you always feel different. Like I was like a little bit shaky, because you sit for so long, you're in the air conditioning and you just feel different and then you have to get back to seeing your golf shot. I didn't do a great job of that coming in, so something to learn.

 Q. You had lights on a few holes, how different is it to play in that?
 BRITTANY LANG: I was so thankful they had them. I was just so thankful we got done. The lights definitely helped, because that's an extra two, three hours of rest. So I was glad they had the lights and I was thankful they got done. You see a few shadows but other than that they are very helpful.

 Q. Heading into the weekend being tied atop the leaderboard, any change in plans or do you do any specific plan that you have in place for yourself?
 BRITTANY LANG: Yeah, I've got to just keep trying to see my shots and sticking to my game plan. This is really good experience for me. And I like this course and I'm playing well, so I'm just going to go out there and keep doing what I've been doing and just try to have fun.

 Q. You say that fun, looking at the last few months and how many Top-10 finishes you've had, do you have like that attitude has helped you a lot in terms of, especially on days like this where it can get frustrating?
 BRITTANY LANG: Yeah, keeping a positive attitude and really a carefree attitude through all of this, it's a huge shot safer and it makes you have a lot more fun. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT