SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 13, 2011
Brittany Lang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   KELLY THESIER: We'd like to welcome Brittany Lang into the interview room. Congratulations on your 5-under round today, currently at the top of the leaderboard. First off, can you just take me through the day a little bit and what was working for you well out there?   
 BRITTANY LANG: Yeah, sure. I played really well. Got off to a good start. Birdied hole 3 to get to 1-under and just kind of sailed in.   
 I've been hitting the ball great for three, four, five months now. I've been hitting it really well and finally got some putts to drop. It just felt very effortless today.  
 KELLY THESIER: This is your second year of playing here. What is the course like? How different is it from what it was playing like last year?   
 BRITTANY LANG: Yeah, the greens are a lot softer. I guess they've got a lot more range which makes the course easier, because last year it was tricky with the firm greens, so I'm thankful for that. That's probably the only change.   
 It's in great shape. Everything's the same, just the greens are softer.  
  
  Q. Like you said about how well you've been hitting the ball lately. You had a great finish at the Women's British Open, and since then you've had good performances. What's been the biggest difference in your game over the past few months?   
 BRITTANY LANG: I think I really simplified things. I really just tried to get out of my own way and have more fun and just go back to kind of playing like you do when you're a kid. I've had more energy, I've had more fun, and I'm playing better. I'm just happy that I came to that realization.  
  
  Q. Does it make any difference being the first off the tee and being the first to start out there?   
 BRITTANY LANG: Yeah, it helps, because you get to play nine holes without any waiting. You just get to go, which is nice, and you get fresh greens. With the Bermuda greens you can get a lot of spike marks and get chewed up, so that's really helpful. They roll pure, not much wind. There are a lot of advantages to teeing off first.  
  
  Q. In addition to individual golf, you also got to play as part of the U.S. Solheim Cup team recently. Talk a little bit about that experience. I know it was a difficult loss for you guys, but just overall what the week was like?   
 BRITTANY LANG: That was my second Solheim Cup, and it is by far the most fun you have on a golf course. It's so cool how the girls come together and bond and have fun. It's really cool.   
 I didn't play great. I won my match on Sunday, but I really didn't play well the other days. It was really hard for the girls to take the loss, and we struggled with that.   
 But everybody played their best. We had so much fun. It's cool to come together as a team, and it was a tough loss. We'll be ready in two years, I know that.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible)?  
 BRITTANY LANG: Yeah.  
  
  Q. How did she perform?   
 BRITTANY LANG: She's a good player. Yeah, I just met her. She's 21. She hit the ball pretty good. She's a great putter. I think she's a little nervous as I would be, but, yeah, very nice girl. Solid game, swings pretty good and putts it well, so I think she has a good future.   
 KELLY THESIER: Thank you, Brittany.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT