U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 10, 2010
Brittany Lang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Brittany, +3 through 14. What was it like out there today?  
 BRITTANY LANG: You know, it was really soft. It played different. You really had to force yourself to fly yourself to the hole. It was not easy after the ball took off yesterday.   
 So it played a little bit easier; I hit it a little bit crookeder. I don't know if that's a word, but I didn't hit it straight. I don't think it played too terribly tough.  
  
  Q. You still have some holes to play, but you're within 5. What do you think about that?  
 BRITTANY LANG: Anything can happen. I didn't really take a look at the leaderboard, but, I mean, I'm just gonna try to get a few looks coming in on this round and then just try to stay patient and be a little bit cleaner with my mental game on the last round. See what happens.   
  
  Q. Maintain your take-what-the-course-gives-you attitude rather than...   
 BRITTANY LANG: Yeah. I've been super positive, super patient. I made a lot of putts for par, and that's what you're gonna have to do if you're gonna win out here, a lot of putts for par. I've had a really good attitude about it.  
  
  Q. Any significant changes as the day went on as to the course conditions?  
 BRITTANY LANG: It just got easier. There was no wind. The greens were softer. It was incredibly easy. I didn't happen to hit the ball really straight, so I was chipping out and having long putts for par.  
  
  Q. Any places where you might take some chances with anything tomorrow? Any holes left where you might take a chance and maybe make a score?  
 BRITTANY LANG: Well, I mean, I'm gonna play my game plan for the last few holes and see what happens. Nothing's gonna change. I mean, I focused. I'm just gonna play the holes exactly and just try to get a birdie look on the last four.  
  
  Q. How about your fatigue level? Are you feeling pretty good?  
 BRITTANY LANG: I feel great. I slept in till 8:30 this morning. I got lucky I got done. I feel fantastic. It's gonna be hard to go to bed because I slept so late.  
  
  Q. How do you gear back now?  
 BRITTANY LANG: Just go have some dinner, relax, and kind of reflect on the goods from today and just have a good attitude coming out tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Seems to me you've been using that positive mantra. Is that kind of the way you've been getting yourself through this when it's a tough grind like this?  
 BRITTANY LANG: Yeah, well, I'm a fairly positive person to begin with. But, yeah, I think at an Open, if you're positive, you're more likely to make the long par putts; you're more likely to make smart decisions. You're gonna play better if you have a positive attitude. Bottom line, I think.  
  
  Q. You talk about being patient. Is that part of your demeanor, being patient?  
 BRITTANY LANG: Um, I mean, some days it's easier than others. But with this golf course you have to be patient; if you're not, you will shoot a huge number, no question.   
 I mean, I'm 3-over, and there's nothing wrong with that. You go, you just keep hitting fairways and greens and maybe make a birdie, but you just have to focus on what you're doing.   
 But patience is definitely key to the Open.  
  
  Q. Did you talk much with your playing partners?   
 BRITTANY LANG: Yeah, we did. We had a good group today. Christina and Suzann. Christina, she's crazy; she's a riot; she's so much fun.  
  
  Q. Does that help?  
 BRITTANY LANG: Doesn't make a difference. It's fun to play. She's a friend, and it's fun to play with Suzann, too. She's a good time.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT