NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY MONACO R.V.
October 3, 2009
Brittany Lang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Still a good round. I know it was a disappointing finish, but you have yourself in contention.
 BRITTANY LANG: Yeah, it's very disappointing, but I'm playing really well. So I'll get over it and I'll be excited for tomorrow.

 Q. Talk about the series of birdies, six on the front nine.
 BRITTANY LANG: Yeah, I played great on the front nine.
 Just hitting a lot of good shots, as I have been the past couple months. Putts are starting to drop and bounces are starting to go my way, so just try to keep a good attitude.

 Q. You're a long hitter. Is this course setting up well for you?
 BRITTANY LANG: Yeah, it does. It's a pretty easy course. There are some tricky tee balls you can't see, so you gotta get your targets and hit at 'em. 
 Yeah, it sets up for the long hitters, as you can see by the leaderboard for sure.

 Q. What was the biggest challenge today? Which hole?
 BRITTANY LANG: Probably hole 15. Yeah, I had 117 yards and I hit a wedge. Keep coming up short there for whatever reason. I had like a 12-footer for par and missed it, then had like a 6-footer for bogey. So I made a really good bogey putt there. Yeah.

 Q. You said yesterday this time of year is working well for you. Supposed to be a little cooler tomorrow temperature-wise.
 BRITTANY LANG: Yeah, I always play well this time of year. I should have a good day tomorrow as well.

 Q. Are you gonna do the Asia swing and Lorena's event and then Houston? 
 BRITTANY LANG: Yeah, I'll be on all four of those.

 Q. Do you think that's gonna be a way to end out the season?
 BRITTANY LANG: Yeah. For sure. I play well when I play a lot in a row. You get in a good swing. I worked hard.
 I told them yesterday I always play well this time of year. It's good to play as much as I can.

 Q. How do you handle coming off the Solheim Cup? I know there was a little bit of fatigue for some people. You seem to have handled it well.
 BRITTANY LANG: Yeah, I was tired. I think I was more mentally was worn down. I think physically I felt fine, but mentally I was worn down, so I don't think I had the best of attitudes those weeks. So that really brought my game down. Once I recognized it, I got a better attitude and I played a lot better.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT