KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 2, 2009
Brittany Lang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: Let's start with your card.
 BRITTANY LANG: Okay.
 MIKE SCANLAN: Do you want to start from 10 or from one? 
 BRITTANY LANG: Whatever.
 MIKE SCANLAN: From 10. So birdie 12.
 BRITTANY LANG: Yeah. I hit driver, 9-iron to about five, six feet, made that. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: 13.
 BRITTANY LANG: 13, I hit a 6-iron in there, and I had about three or four feet.
 MIKE SCANLAN: 16.
 BRITTANY LANG: 16, I hit an 8-iron in there, and I had about six feet.
 MIKE SCANLAN: 18.
 BRITTANY LANG: Driver, hybrid, and I made like a -- probably like 15 to 20 feet, somewhere in there.
 MIKE SCANLAN: Birdie one.
 BRITTANY LANG: Yeah. I hit driver, 9-iron in the green. It was in between the fringe and the rough, and I was kind of out of the way from there.
 MIKE SCANLAN: How far would you say? 
 BRITTANY LANG: It was probably like 15 feet. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: And bogey 4. 
 BRITTANY LANG: Yeah. I hit driver right, chipped that with 5-iron, hit a sand wedge on the green and two-putted.
 MIKE SCANLAN: All right, Brittany, a really great round, 5-under par to start the Kraft Nabisco Championship, and you're obviously no stranger to the interview room in recent months. You've had a really good year so far. If you would, just take us through your day. What went right for you and how good do you feel about the round.
 BRITTANY LANG: Yeah. I feel really good. I felt like I couldn't really do anything wrong. I didn't stay aggressive toward the end of the front nine, which was my Back 9, so I was kind of disappointed with that. 
 But making the birdies and the eagles I felt like I couldn't do anything wrong, so I was really confident.

 Q. At one point were you thinking maybe let's go real low or were you kind of content with where you were? 
 BRITTANY LANG: I was definitely happy with where I was. I was hitting well. I was confident. I knew I could shoot a really good score, and I didn't stay aggressive towards the end of that nine, so I was disappointed. 
 The last few holes I played really aggressively and didn't make any putts, got some good putts in. So that was good. 

Q. The forecast for tomorrow is kind of windy. 
 BRITTANY LANG: Yeah. I was happy I played in the morning. There's no wind. The course is in perfect condition. You know, it just played, I think, extremely easy. So any time you play in the morning you can shoot nothing out there. 
 What is the forecast for tomorrow? Really windy? Like how windy? 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Like 20 to 30 with gusts of 40. 
 BRITTANY LANG: That's not bad. (Laughs). So yeah, I imagine the greens will be a little firm and fast tomorrow. 
 So yeah, tomorrow might be a little bit tougher.

 Q. Given that, is it important to get a good low number up there to start with?
 BRITTANY LANG: Absolutely, yeah. It feels good. Just to play that round and have that confidence and play well, and to know that tomorrow's going to be difficult, for sure it feels good to post a good number.

 Q. Angela Stanford was in here a couple minutes ago talking about her very good confidence these days. You must be pretty confident with what's going on given your results so far this year. 
 BRITTANY LANG: Yes. That was my No. 1 goal this off season was to get confidence. 
 You know, I've always had a lot of talent, and I work extremely hard, so my goal was to gain confidence, and I'm doing that progressively.

 Q. How does one gain confidence? 
 BRITTANY LANG: No. There's a lot that goes into it. Really taking in when you do good things, really taking them in. 
 You know, like for example, if you hit a good drive, not just saying, oh, that was a good drive, but really taking in, saying, wow, you hit a good shot. Stuff like that. Gaining confidence. Just knowing that, number one, you have talent, number two, you work hard. You just think about stuff like that. It helps you gain confidence.

 Q. Everybody said the greens were pretty quick. 
 BRITTANY LANG: They were very quick.

 Q. How quick are they? 
 BRITTANY LANG: They're pretty quick. I struggled a little bit towards the end of the round because there's certain putts that are uphill, but can still be quick, and then downhill they're still not as fast. So it's a little bit tricky. 
 I need to get a little bit better than that, but you can't be overly aggressive with your putting because you will have five or six-footers coming back if you hit it a little bit too hard.

 Q. Given that are you a little surprised with the scoring where it is right now, or would you like to say you're shooting in the morning so you're going to post a good score?
 BRITTANY LANG: Well, the greens are fast, so you don't have to make that big of a stroke. 
 There's less room for error, you're going to make more putts, but tomorrow when it's really windy and the greens are that fast, it'll be trickier. But not when the greens are conditions like that. There's less room for error, there's little stroke and more putts will be made.
 MIKE SCANLAN: Anything else? 
 BRITTANY LANG: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT