MASTERCARD CLASSIC HONORING ALEJO PIRALTA PRESENTED BY NEXTEL
March 20, 2009
Brittany Lang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Just talk about your round today.  
 BRITTANY LANG: There's some tricky holes out there. You don't know what kind of bounce you're going to get, but Luke was really on with the wedges.   
 A lot of it is the altitude. You have to feel what it's doing. We had some good bunkers coming in, a really close wedge shot, almost in on 18. That was nice, almost happened there, but I finished great. I hit it 30-foot, made a bunch of five, six-footers for birdie coming in.   
  
  Q. How do you feel the altitude is affecting you physically?  
 BRITTANY LANG: Well, the ball goes so far, but Luke is so good with it, I don't have to do anything. He figures out the altitude. Some shots he knows from years past they just play longer or shorter. We have a good look at the course.   
 That altitude sickness the first day I was here, you just have to drink a lot of water. That's pretty much it.  
  
  Q. So you're feeling okay?  
 BRITTANY LANG: Yeah, yeah. I have a lot of energy for some reason. Normally I drink coffee in the morning, and I don't even need it.   
 This is so cool.   
  
  Q. Do you feel you are in better shape this year?  
 BRITTANY LANG: Like physically?   
  
  Q. Yeah.   
 BRITTANY LANG: I definitely am in better shape this year. I kind of got out of good shape last year and I got myself back. I still have a ways to go, but I am definitely in better shape this year.  
  
  Q. What are you doing this week?  
 BRITTANY LANG: It's only a AAA tournament. I try to get plenty of sleep. I've had some early times these past couple days.   
 Just trying to get plenty of rest and get a couple of workouts. I have a lot of down time. I don't do much, just work out and watch movies, hang out.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible).   
 BRITTANY LANG: This is a really good golf course for me because I can attack some of the par-5s. I'm hitting the ball really long right now for some reason.   
 So I think it's a fairly easy course. There's some goofy holes and goofy things, but if you manage those well, you can really shoot low.  
  
  Q. How far do you think you're hitting the ball?  
 BRITTANY LANG: I'm hitting the ball so far for some reason. If Luke were here, he could tell you.   
 Honestly, I have no idea. I have no clue.  
  
  Q. But it's really good.  
 BRITTANY LANG: Yeah. I'm hitting it just a mile.   
  
  Q. Obviously you prefer three days to four days.  
 BRITTANY LANG: It's nice. You don't have to conserve as much energy. You can go to the jam. You can practice a little bit longer.   
 I like three-day tournaments. I'm just going to keep playing aggressive and keep practicing the next couple days, my fundamentals.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT