SOLHEIM CUP
August 20, 2017
Brittany Lang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BRITTANY LANG: We really came together as a team.  The girls played great.  I'm so happy we got it done against an extremely tough team.
Q. How would you describe the team spirit and why was it so united, obviously good friends within that side, but what was the magic this week?
BRITTANY LANG: I think it was fun.  I think the girls were playing for each other, and Juli, and having fun.
And I mean, both sides, there's so much good golf.  But I think we're a lot more relaxed this year just trying to be more aggressive and make some birdies, and the girls did very well.
Q. Juli kept mentioning the word "fun" and "light" and "loose," how much did that figure into your side?
BRITTANY LANG: It helped me a lot.  I don't know how much it helped the other girls, but it helped me so much.  She said:  You don't need to play any better than you do any other week; have some fun.  Enjoy it.  This really is the coolest week of the year.  And really have to take it in.  And it was just amazing.
Q. What was the message heading out, given the performance the last couple of days (inaudible), the message to (inaudible)?
BRITTANY LANG: You know, Juli always has the coolest messages.  She said don't assume the person in front of you or behind you is going to win.  Don't just coast.  Don't think -- I was down a couple early.  Charley played great.  And I said:  All right, Brittany, you've got to get some intensity back in this.  Don't assume we have this in the bag.  And Charley played fantastic.
But I kind of like that.  I thought that was a great message.
Q. A word about the fans, describe the energy level, the vibe that you all fed off, this incredible support.
BRITTANY LANG: I've never seen better fans.  It was amazing, so many "Go, U.S." and the amount of them was amazing.  It makes the tournament.  It makes it so much fun, the roars and everything.  You can't beat it.
Q. Your captain was having a time on the first tee.  Seemed like she was really reacting to the way you guys were playing together as a team.  And what did she mean to the team?
BRITTANY LANG: Juli is the best.  There's not much to say after that.  She's the girl that we all grew up watching, being silly, dancing around and stuff like that.  But she's real.  She's a real person.  She's genuine and real.
And when she talks to us, we really believe she cares about us and is really talking to us.  If you can't get up to play for some of these captains we have, you have a problem.  It was really special doing it for her.
Q. Yesterday she spoke highly of what you guys called "The killer Bs."  You pulled off two great performances.  What did it take to do that?
BRITTANY LANG: Man, we played some great golf.  Brittany played unbelievable yesterday.  Brittany Lincicome played so good.  But it was probably the most, the two most fun days I've had on a golf course.  Just talking with my friend, making some birdies, just an absolute blast.
And Mel and Carlota played so well.  It was amazing.  We just played aggressive, tried to make as many birdies as we could.
Q. You said yesterday you wanted to make that one shot you would remember for the whole tournament.  You accomplished that yesterday.  But there was so much good golf throughout the week by all players.  Just what was the theme of this Solheim Cup?
BRITTANY LANG: Man, to hear the amount of birdies on both sides of the team, what they were making, birdies and eagles.
I played Charley today.  She had seven birdies.  Birdied like four of the first five holes, something like that.
Women's golf is so good right now.  The depth is amazing.  And that's really great.  All these fans to see how good these girls really are is a real message.
Q. Finally, as a veteran, you've been here before, but the crowds in Des Moines were unbelievable.  Just how much did that impact the play?
BRITTANY LANG: Oh, it makes a humongous difference.  I even had some of the European team tell me:  We don't have any fans out here.
It's good for us.  It really wears on you when you hear the other side cheering so much, you hear these huge roars, you're like, there's something going on.  It's what makes the Solheim Cup the Solheim Cup; and these in particular, best crowds I've ever seen.
Q. To top it off, you became an aunt.  Tell us what that was like knowing that that was going on as you were playing the singles match.
BRITTANY LANG: My brother who caddied for me for 12 years left this morning to go be with his wife.  And one of our good friends, great caddie, John Killeen, caddied for me.  It was so awesome.  I'm so happy for my brother.  I am so glad he was there to witness it.  Everybody's healthy, doing great, and can't wait to go see little Taylor [phonetic].






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT