KAPALUA LPGA CLASSIC
October 17, 2008
Brittany Lang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: Let's go through your card. Bogey on 3? 
 BRITTANY LANG: I hit a little knock-down 6-iron left into the rough and I hit a pretty good chip and I missed like a three or four footer, just a terrible stroke. 
 Then I hit a great knock-down pitching wedge, awesome, and I made like a downhill 12-footer for birdie there. That was a good birdie. 
 11, I think I hit a 9-iron in there, and I made kind of a long putt, like 25 to 30 feet, somewhere in there. 
 13, I hit a full gap wedge in there real close to about eight feet and made that. 
 16, I hit a really thin 5-iron into the bunker, chunked a bunker shot and 2-putted for bogey. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Right now, I think you're tied for the lead after two rounds. You said just a moment ago on the GOLF CHANNEL, you have not really been in this position. If you would, just talk a little about your day and kind of your thoughts going into the weekend. 
 BRITTANY LANG: Yeah, I am really looking forward to this weekend for the experience, because I haven't been in this position and I've been trying to put myself in it for so long. So, I'm excited. 
 And you know, real disappointed with the way I finished up today. I didn't capitalize on the par 5s with my length, and then I hit a really terrible shot on 16. So I hope to finish up better tomorrow and on the weekend and just finish up strong on the last few holes. 
 Yeah, I just want to, like I said, just try to control my emotions and be present and just enjoy the experience. 

 Q. You were talking about that you had been in Hawaii before, was that a special trip or something that you had been in Hawaii back at the SBS Open?
 BRITTANY LANG: No, I was out in December. I had an outing with Adams at Kanaapali and came out here with my boyfriend and stayed like an extra week and played the Bay Course four times.

 Q. Does that help?
 BRITTANY LANG: Yeah, I got to see the course. I got to play in way more wind than this, so makes this seem easy. Yeah, I learned every hole and knew where we were playing from and got a feel for the greens, yeah. 

 Q. When was this? 
 BRITTANY LANG: This past off-season, December of '07. 

 Q. You said you were not used to this; didn't you finish tied for second at Sybase?
 BRITTANY LANG: Yes, I did. 

 Q. And then you finished fifth last week? 
 BRITTANY LANG: Well, I never -- you know, I wasn't in the final group at any of the tournaments with all of the cameras and everything on you in the final group. I never held the lead overnight, I don't think, in a tournament. 
 So I've never really had all eyes on me, and I want to learn how to be comfortable in that position. 

 Q. What do you think is the difference? 
 BRITTANY LANG: Well, it kind of gets me ahead of myself. I start thinking about winning instead of what got me there. 
 So, I mean, I had not been in this position, so I could handle it really well. We'll see this weekend. But you know, just want to make sure that I'm aware of just trying to be present. 

 Q. When you know you have an afternoon -- a lot of the tees in the afternoon, what's the thought process, just play conservative and try to get out there and play steady or not too long too aggressive, keep it low?
 BRITTANY LANG: What's your question? 

 Q. What's your strategy going into the wind when the conditions are going to be a little difficult. 
 BRITTANY LANG: You know, I seem to play really well in the wind. I grew up playing in the wind, and it doesn't seem to bother me that much. 
 My brother, also, grew up playing in the wind. He caddies for me. So he's pretty smart when it comes to how to play. I think that, you know, what we do is I play aggressively from tee-to-green like I'm aggressive with my tee ball, aggressive with my iron shot, and then when I get to the putting green, with all that wind, if I need to be conservative, I can be. So that way you don't have to putt aggressively, because that can be one of the trickiest things in the wind is putting.

 Q. So on 16, you were being pretty aggressive? 
 BRITTANY LANG: 16, no, I just hit a really terrible shot. I hit a 3-wood into the fairway and kind of got gusted, so I had kind of a long way in. I was just hitting a 5-iron and I just got really quick with my tempo. I've hit so many good shots this week, that was probably one of the first bad shots I had hit all week, and I didn't get it up-and-down. 

 Q. There are several other players behind you, obviously Lorena; does it make you nervous at all being in that top spot wondering if you can make a run over the next few days or are you just focusing on your game? 
 BRITTANY LANG: Yeah, I'm just going to go out there and try and play the best I can Saturday and Sunday. It's inevitable that Lorena is going to play well. She's the No. 1 player in the world. She's going to play well and she's going to make a charge. I'm just to go out there and try to be present and try to play like I have been these past couple of weeks in the wind, which is fantastic. So I'm going to try not to worry about that.

 Q. But you want it to be windy? 
 BRITTANY LANG: Absolutely. Absolutely.

 Q. You won a lot as a junior, I think like eight times, is that something that you can draw upon in this situation, or is that so far removed it's more like what you've done since you've been on the LPGA Tour?
 BRITTANY LANG: I'd say your second point. I'm so far removed from junior golf, and I mean, even amateur golf, and I try to remind myself what I accomplish in amateur golf and college and everything just to build my confidence. 
 But all I see is what I've done on the LPGA. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Thank you so much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT