SYBASE CLASSIC PRESENTED BY SHOPRITE
May 15, 2008
Brittany Lang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Brittany, thanks for coming in and joining us today. Great round out there, 4-under par, 68 and you're knotted at the top of the leaderboard with some players still out there, but can you talk about your first round and the hot start you got off to?  
 BRITTANY LANG: Yeah, I played fantastic. I bogeyed my third hole of the day, which was an air and tee shot, but I rolled it great. I hit the ball better than I've hit it in a long time, so I played very solid, very steady.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Let's go over your scorecard real quick, the birdies and bogeys. What happened on the 12th hole, the only bogey of the day?   
 BRITTANY LANG: Yeah. I hit my tee shot right. It's kind of a tricky tee shot for me because I have to take it way over the left trees before I run out of fairway, which I did today, and it's not a very good 3-wood hole, so I ran out of a fairway there. I hit it left. I had an impossible chip. I hit as good of shot as you could've hit, and then I had a 20-footer for par which produced me a bogey.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: So two-putt from 20-feet?  
 BRITTANY LANG: Yeah.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Okay. The birdie on 14, approach shot...  
 BRITTANY LANG: I hit a 3-wood off the tee and an 8-iron into the green and made probably about a 10-footer for birdie.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Okay. The birdie on 16.  
 BRITTANY LANG: I hit a driver, and then I hit a little knock-down 9-iron from 121, hit it about to a foot?   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Nice.   
 BRITTANY LANG: Knocked that in.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Birdie on 17.  
 BRITTANY LANG: I hit a 3-iron to probably about maybe like 17 feet and made that.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Okay. The birdie on 2.  
 BRITTANY LANG: I hit a full 9-iron to about five feet and made that.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: And the birdie on 4.   
 BRITTANY LANG: I had a 9-iron to about probably like 15, 15 feet and made that.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: All right. Questions for Brittany. If we could just use the microphone, please.   
  
  Q. The scores are pretty good so far. Are the conditions conducive to the scoring?   
 BRITTANY LANG: Yes. Absolutely. It's playing very easy out there. There's no wind. The greens are soft, the greens are slow. You can putt aggressively. Not too many tricky pins, so definitely low scores today, yeah.   
  
  Q. You said you haven't been hitting the ball well this year. Seemed like you were sticking a lot of irons close. Has that been a problem, your iron play or is it more off the tee?   
 BRITTANY LANG: No. I've actually had a great start to the year. I just didn't hit the ball particularly well last week, but yeah, one of the best starts to my year since, and I've been hitting it pretty well just getting things intact. Last week they were a little bit off, but today was a lot better.   
  
  Q. You said this course is playing about as easy as it can play because of the lack of wind and the soft conditions and the recent rain. What is the reason?  
 BRITTANY LANG: That it's playing so easy?   
  
  Q. Yeah.   
 BRITTANY LANG: Well, there's not a breath of wind. It's not a particularly long golf course, you know. It is a little bit tight. That's probably the thing. You have to hit some good tee balls, but the greens are soft, they're slow, no wind. The rough is not extremely thick. So today is just an ideal day for scoring.   
  
  Q. Are you surprised at all that the retiree is at the top of the leaderboard?   
 BRITTANY LANG: Absolutely not. No.   
  
  Q. What's your reaction when you heard Annika's statement on Tuesday?  
 BRITTANY LANG: I kind of -- I knew that it was going to happen sometime soon because I know she wants to start a family and she's done just about everything. I mean I know she can win more tournaments, but I think she's in a good position to leave and I knew it was going to be coming shortly, but I didn't know it was going to be this year. I thought maybe she'd play a few more years, so I wasn't too surprised.   
  
  Q. What did she mean to you as a young player growing up? I mean you probably came of age while she was dominating out here. I'm just curious, was she someone you looked up to? What are your views on what she's meant to the tour and the game of golf?  
 BRITTANY LANG: Yeah. I mean she's just been everything to the LPGA. You know, I still look up to her. She was one of my first LPGA players that I followed when I was nine and ten. She's done so many things for the LPGA Tour and I think she'll continue to, but she's the best the LPGA has ever seen so she's something to work towards.   
  
  Q. Is there an aspect of her game that you think she should be remembered for? Is it her consistently high finishes? Is it her driving? What do you think about technically when you think about Annika and what her legacy is?   
 BRITTANY LANG: I mean she's just unbelievable. She's so good in every of part of her game. She drives it well. Her wedges are unbelievable. Her speed with her putting is always perfect. I mean just shows how hard she works, but every part of her game is so precise and so perfect all the time. So you can see why she's so good.   
  
  Q. Another week where you feel like you really have to step it up a little more? Obviously they've come to play this week.   
 BRITTANY LANG: Yeah. Absolutely. Any time that Lorena, Annika or any of the players for that matter -- there's a lot of depth out here -- you're going to have to make a lot of birdies if you want a chance to win, so yeah, definitely.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Any more questions for Brittany? All right. Well, thank you for your time, Brittany, and good luck this week.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT