HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 8, 2006
Laura Diaz
Juli Inkster
Mi Hyun Kim
Brittany Lang
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Talk about your round out there.

MI HYUN KIM:  You know, I played so good today.  My driving is good, my short game is good.  The par 5s    inaudible    made birdie a little bit easier.  Still my swing is good and my short game is good.
Q.  Just looking forward to next week?

MI HYUN KIM:  Yeah, next week is a little tighter course.  So I think I can play good.
Q.  How do you like match play events?  How many have you played on the LPGA Tour?

MI HYUN KIM:  This is the second time playing.  I enjoy the game.  I like to play fast.  I like match play.


LAURA DIAZ:  You know, I just feel like I'm playing    inaudible    I love the format.  I think match play is great.  I think it's a good change up.  I think it's fun for everyone.

I just think the last couple of weeks I haven't taken a week off, I haven't been mentally where I need to be.  And you know, this week especially, you really need to be there mentally because it really is just a mind game out there.  I mean, you know, you've got to be trying to make birdies all the time.  And then there's times when you probably should be playing a little more conservatively instead of aggressively.

You know, I only made one mistake today.  But she made some good birdies and I didn't make any birdies.


BRITTANY LANG:  I didn't play that well today and it didn't help that she played really well.  I didn't make many birdies and when I did
Q.   They hurt.

BRITTANY LANG:  Like with the eagle on 9, I thought I would win one, but she's Annika.  I didn't get off to the best start.  I didn't putt very well today and I just couldn't make anything happen.
Q.  This is your first professional match play tournament, just overall how did it go?  You made it to the third round.

BRITTANY LANG:  It was fun.  I haven't played match play in a while.  It felt good to play, especially after missing the cut at the Open.  It felt good to putt well for a couple rounds.  It was fun playing and good to be out there.
Q. Just your thoughts about transitioning back to getting ready for Jamie Farr next week?

BRITTANY LANG:  Yeah, I'm excited.  I played it as an amateur one year and I've played as a pro, so this will be my third year back.  It will be a fun week.  I like that golf course.
Q.  Let's go over your birdies.

BRITTANY LANG:  9.  I had 70 yards with a lob wedge to four inches.  My other birdie was on 11,  I hit driver, 3 wood on the green and 3 putted.
Q.  How close were you?

BRITTANY LANG:  Probably 20 feet, 25 feet.  I had 220 to the front downwind.
Q. Anything else about your experience here?

BRITTANY LANG:  This is a great course.  I had a lot of fun this week.  I thought it was great.


KARRIE WEBB:  I was really solid.  I got off to a good start.  I holed a shot on the first hole.  I hit missed the fairway just in the left rough and I just really had to hit something    I didn't have a great lie.  I got it out really nice but was pretty lucky for it to go in from that situation so, it was a nice start.

I think on the way in, I had six other birdies.
Q.  Can we go over those?

KARRIE WEBB:  3, No. 8, 9, 10,11.
Q.  How far out were you?

KARRIE WEBB:  3 was about 25, 30 feet, 9 iron into three.  Sand wedge into 8.

Q.  Inaudible?

JULI INKSTER:  You know, it's as long as you can still hit the ball and compete.
Q.  Do you think that there's any advantage for somebody coming up now

JULI INKSTER:  Oh, yeah, they have got videos and teachers and golf equipment is better.  Golf is cool to play.  It's great now for women to play sports and    you can play sports and also be a woman and be a mom and be whatever you want to be and that's great.
Q.  Let's go over your round.

JULI INKSTER:  I played good.  I didn't make any bogeys which helped.  I think I had six birdies out there.  So I played really solid.
Q.  What holes did you have the birdies on?

JULI INKSTER:  I birdied 2 with sand wedge, about 18 feet.

I birdied 4, with 8 iron, a foot, gimmie.

I birdied 9 with a wedge about 12 feet.

I birdied 11, gimmie, a foot.

I birdied 14 with a wedge about 12 feet.

That's it.  Five birdies.
Q.  And just looking forward to this afternoon?

JULI INKSTER:  Yeah.
Q.  Is it a different mentality for different players?

JULI INKSTER:  I know I'm going to have to play great and I'm going to have to    she's playing really well.  So I'm just going to go out there and try to play my own game.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT