NCAA MEN'S COLLEGE WORLD SERIES
June 19, 2016
Andrew Beckwith
Tyler Chadwick
Gary Gilmore
Zach Remillard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Coastal Carolina 2, Florida 1   
THE MODERATOR: Gary, start off with a statement and then we'll have questions for the student-athletes.   
COACH GILMORE: Just the way our kids played, a lot of things didn't go our way.  I think everything I tried to get us to do backfired, and thank goodness Beck picked us up and our infield defense was very good tonight.  But Chadwick, I don't think he's played second base in about three years.  But Coach Schilling did a great job getting him prepared and made a couple of really nice plays for us.  And Zach picked up some big hits for us tonight.   
I don't know how this place held that one ball in the left-center.  That ball was absolutely -- it was mauled.  But it's one thing about this team:  Somebody's around to pick somebody up all the time.  And tonight Beckwith was the guy.  He and Z did the job for us.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions for the student-athletes.   
 Q.  Andrew, what was different for you from last week to this week?  Obviously last week didn't get through five and today you took it the whole way against Florida?  
ANDREW BECKWITH: Just one bad pitch last week, left a change-up over the plate to the pinch-hitter in, I think, the fourth or fifth.  They scored the first run.  And I just, everything was working tonight.   
And I actually pulled out a pitch out of my back pocket in the pen in warm-ups, the curveball.  But, yeah, tonight was just fun.  My defense picked me up.  And we got more runs than them.   
 Q.  All three players, getting to this point was so historic to the program, but now to win a game, put it in perspective how big this feels for all three of you?  
ANDREW BECKWITH: Yeah, it feels awesome.  We're basically pretty much trying to do this for Coach Gilmore.  We got him to Omaha but our job's not done.  We've got one on Tuesday and that's the game we're looking forward to.   
TYLER CHADWICK: Gilly preached all week that we weren't just here to get here.  We needed to take the first two days we were here, enjoy it, get to see everything and enjoy the ceremonies and everything.  But once we got to practice yesterday, it was time to lock back in.  And all the other stuff went out the window.  But it's a good team win and something I think we needed to get off our chest early here to feel good about ourselves here.  So it was good.   
ZACH REMILLARD: Yeah, this team's built on brotherhood.  Everyone loves one another.  The camaraderie is at another level.  Unlike anything I've ever seen.   
I think the opportunity to win and to have a couple more days with each other, because we've got some of our best friends in the world playing next to us.  We're going to go out there and give it all we have and not worry about who is on the other side, whether they're more talented than us or not, we're just going to compete.   
 Q.  Zach, as you're standing there, five, six minutes go by with that replay review.  What's going through your mind?  Did you know whether it was fair or foul, or was it angsty standing around waiting to get a ruling on that?  
ZACH REMILLARD: I wasn't sure it was fair or foul.  I thought it might have been.  Actually took my eye off it to touch first base, ran past it.  I didn't even know that was an opportunity we had to take advantage of.   
But when they went in the fans started cheering and apparently it was fear.  That's out of your control.  You're just excited that it went your way.   
 Q.  You didn't know there was a replay?  
ZACH REMILLARD: No, I wasn't sure.   
ANDREW BECKWITH: No, we never had that.   
 Q.  Andrew, you never had more than a one-run lead the whole game.  How did you keep your poise and stay in the moment the whole way?  And your thoughts entering the ninth and closing that thing out?  
ANDREW BECKWITH: I'm a contact pitcher, and I really do trust my defense.  I think I got Z probably about 10 ground balls, I don't know.  But you've just got to let your defense work in that situation, and I have a lot of trust in them and just get us into hit real quick and it worked out for us.   
 Q.  Andrew, first off when you say you pulled a curveball out of your back pocket, could you elaborate?  And second of all, do you decide which angle or is that called from the bench  as well?  Like, okay, this is a fastball, this is a two-seamer from down below.  Like, who determines which pitch angle you come from?  
ANDREW BECKWITH: Yeah, Coach Thomas has a lot of trust in me to shake off him, but we look at people's swings and where the ball's fouled off and how they look in the box, which determines if I'm throwing the fastball over the top or fastball down low.   
But, yeah, I've been throwing a cutter all year.  I've been playing around with a curveball in the bullpen just because it helps me stay on top of my cutter.  So I had a 12-six working tonight, I don't know where it came from.   
 Q.  [Indiscernible]?  
ANDREW BECKWITH: Yeah, besides warm-ups between pitches.   
COACH GILMORE: I'm just glad he didn't have inner squads.   
 Q.  Andrew, what was the plan of attack tonight?  They have a lot of different types of hitters.  What were you trying to do with that lineup?  
ANDREW BECKWITH: Get ahead early.  They were kind of like LSU, a ground ball-hitting team.  Like I said earlier, just let Z, let Paez, let Chadwick, let what all work, and field my position, we should be in good shape at the end of the game.   
 Q.  Tyler, when did you find out your playing second, and just take me through making your first start there in however long and how you adjusted and adapted?  
TYLER CHADWICK: We were walking to the bus after practice or BP and Coach Gilly called me over and asked me if I was good to go and if I knew everything.  I told him, yeah.  Got to the field, my name was in the lineup card.  It was awesome.  Paez helped me out a lot.  Coach Schill helped me out a lot kind of being ready for each pitch and where to move and everything and Seth and Cam were talking to me a lot about different stuff.   
So it was kind of a team effort there.  They helped me out a lot with it.  But I'm just glad I got the opportunity to do it.  And hopefully we keep winning games.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.  Questions for Coach.   
 Q.  How many times have you had a starting pitcher just make up a pitch in the bullpen and then use it in a big game?  
COACH GILMORE: I mean, with him, I mean, it doesn't surprise me at all.  We've had one or two guys pull something out of the hat over the years.  But he had a great game tonight.  He was very good.  And like I said all year long he's the best bullpen guy in the country but he keeps proving me wrong that he's a legit starter.   
He's a unique young man to be able to change arm angles and command the baseball the way he does and do the things he does.  We haven't had a whole lot of guys over my career -- we've had some true subby guys, but we haven't had guys be able to move from traditional slot down below and everywhere in between and throw multiple pitches.  He's a unique guy.   
 Q.  How frustrated were you during that replay sequence knowing that you were ahead two runs they called it fair initially?  
COACH GILMORE: I was -- the longer it went, the more I knew it had to be fair and they were trying to figure out what to do.  And I mean no one's trying to not make a correct call or whatever.  But if that call goes as a fair ball from the get-go we easily score two runs.   
I'm not quite sure why personally; and again at least what I've been told we can't, once a decision is made, I can't argue at all or I get tossed.   
I honestly really wanted to question why they only allowed one guy to score, because we easily score from first base on that play.  But I mean thank goodness at least we have it.  Regular season, we don't have that at all.  So it's a foul ball and we don't score.   
THE MODERATOR: Still playing.   
COACH GILMORE: Absolutely.   
 Q.  You talked about almost everything you try to do backfired, do you feel like in this park you have to try a little harder to force the action?  
COACH GILMORE: I mean, you look around, and honestly -- what I think it was '13 and '14 we had to play in the Myrtle Beach Pelicans Park and the wind blows in in the spring like a gale force wind right in your face.  Basically this same group of these guys hit 13 home runs there in two years.  It's so frustrating.  You see the outfielders creep in on you so much.  I was surprised.   
We beat them over their head three or four times tonight.  But it is when you get guys on third base or you get guys at second that are non-runners, you start doing some things that you really sometimes wish you hadn't done.  Just there were a couple of opportunities that I put stuff on them that we didn't execute correctly that part of that's a credit to the University of Florida.   
I mean, I can put on a bunch and doing this, these cats, they're throwing 90 to 95 miles an hour.  With good breaking stuff.  It's not that easy.  So it doesn't always work out the way you want it to.   
But we kept setting the table tonight.  We simply just -- we didn't get that hit to separate us all night long.  That's a credit to their team and who they are.   
And we just are very, very fortunate to come out to top and be happy to take this win.   
 Q.  How did you finally settle on Chadwick at second, and how strenuous was that decision for you and how pleased were you with the way he responded?  
COACH GILMORE: I won't say how I came upon it.  Because I don't want to hurt another kid's feelings right at this moment.  But it was a decision I made after a couple of consultations and that and that and there's nothing against Cam.  I just thought this group of guys has been together and we're going to lose, I'm going to probably lose with a senior at second base that he's one of the brothers.   
And to be honest with you that is kind of what it came down to, to be honest, because it was basically to some degree it was the same talent level in some ways, I think Cam has more range left and right.  Chadwick is a little bit better just in things that he can control and being around the ball and balls that are hit to him.   
I mean basically the same play that happened at LSU happened to Chadwick and he had the presence to be nice and calm and make that play and that's the same ball we threw away in the ninth inning there at LSU.  So I think I'm just happy for Chadwick.  He's such a selfless gamer for this group of guys here and for him to come in there and have a solid game, it made a world of difference for us.   
 Q.  Coach, you beat NC State, and you continue rolling on through LSU.  Describe the confidence that the team has to be able to continue to take on ACC, SEC teams knowing you've built a huge program in the southeast and competed with them for a long time but now you're beating some of the best of the best?  
COACH GILMORE: This group, I just keep telling them we're playing people that are better than them and they keep proving me wrong.  I keep telling them, I mean, honestly, the pitching staff at Florida, I'll be honest with you I've been around college baseball a long time.  If there's ever been a better collection of arms and pitchability guys than that group, man alive, I'm telling you, they're very impressive.   
And I'm sure they're far from being done in this tournament.  They're very good.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT