TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 29, 2011
Cody Davis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q. Could you compare the quarterback play of what you saw tonight versus K-State, Nevada and just kind of walk us through the similarities and the successes these guys had and maybe why you guys haven't been able to stop them?
 CODY DAVIS: I mean, definitely they have some similarities on offense as far as how they use their quarterback and read zones and stuff. 
 But as far as us just going out and executing, we just didn't. We prepared pretty great. We just didn't go out there and tackle and just communicate and execute.

 Q. Third down was difficult tonight and it's been kind of a recipe this year, hasn't it? Is there something that happens on third down? Is it just the other team just doing a better job?
 CODY DAVIS: No. I mean, we obviously have to step up on third down. That's one of our goals. And we didn't do that tonight. And we just didn't come out focused. We came out flat. Missing tackles. I missed too many tackles. I didn't step up and be a leader. I need to come out next week and just prove myself.

 Q. Being one of the leaders on the defense, how do you go from last weekend and this weekend and then mentally preparing yourself for UT and also as an example for the team?
 CODY DAVIS: That's the great and worst thing about this game: New day, new week, fresh mindset. We have to come to work Sunday and forget about the past and just come out focused and ready to work.

 Q. Seth mentioned that it's a difficulty coming off cloud nine this week during practice. Did you feel that at any point?
 CODY DAVIS: I think we had a great week of preparation. Players studied hard on them. We knew exactly what they were going to do. They came out and just executed. We didn't show up today. And as far as preparation goes, I think we did great. But showing up on game day there wasn't the same excitement level and focus.

 Q. That 71-yard touchdown was a back-breaker. How did that play unfold, or what was your assignment on that play? Looked like you got caught up inside. 
 CODY DAVIS: We were blitzing man, and, yeah, I probably got too close up to the line. And the lineman got up and filled the gap and he was off to the races.

 Q. How do you explain having a good week of practice and being up and emotional and everything like that, and then coming out on game day and having nothing whatsoever?
 CODY DAVIS: There's no explanation. You've got to come to work every day. I think we had a good week, like I said. But that doesn't mean -- that just gives you a chance on game day. And we just took that for granted and didn't come out and play. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT