TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 29, 2011
Cody Davis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. Are you excited, Cody? 
 CODY DAVIS: Yes, very excited to go out there and play our first game. Hit somebody else besides ourselves. Just looking forward to the challenge of the first game. 

 Q. How ready are you to show off this 4-2-5 and show he what you've been working for since bringing in Coach Glasgow? 
 CODY DAVIS: I'm really excited to see how the defense gels with the new scheme. Coach Glasgow bringing his fire from Sin City to the field, he's going to be a scary man on game day. You media people may want to watch out. It's going to be an exciting thing. 

 Q. Can you talk about the preparation of his defense compared to that first game? 
 CODY DAVIS: What do you really mean? 

 Q. Compared to the last two seasons and the two other defenses, preparing for that first game, how does it compare to the last two years? 
 CODY DAVIS: Kind of similar. I think everybody has their own processes and just different little things that they do. Kind of the same process, just going through, looking at film, making sure we have our game plan down to the tee, and just going through their film, and how our defense will set up against it. 

 Q. You guys as a defense feel like you have something to prove just because of how bad last year was on your side of the ball? 
 CODY DAVIS: I think so. I think we need to step up and show we have defense here at Texas Tech. Last year pretty bad stats, terrible stats at that, but we need to just come up and come with a new attitude and show what we've got. 

 Q. Since you guys learned a new defense last year and this year as well, was it easier to learn, more complicated or would you say it's just about the same? 
 CODY DAVIS: It's always a little difficult transitioning coaches and schemes, playbooks, but this year compared to last year has been a little more easier. 
 The defense is simplified. But at the same time it's not less complicated or it's not less -- we still have the same amount of blitzes and schemes and coverages. It's just more simplified terms and easier to understand for the defense.

 Q. Coach said you all have been running at about 70%. Are you at a hundred now where you're not thinking or not hesitating? Is it just all reaction this morning? 
 CODY DAVIS: I think we're getting there. The transition process is always there. But I think this year compared to last year we're definitely ahead of schedule on that. 

 Q. Can you talk about how you look at some of the new faces on the defense, specifically Leon Mackey, and talk about watching him work? 
 CODY DAVIS: Leon Mackey is a beast. You know, you look at him and he's a big, scary dude. Just can't wait to see him get out there on the field. He's brought some work ethic and just kind of team bonding to the team this summer, and hopefully this pays off in the fall. 

 Q. As one of the older guys, I know you've upgraded talent-wise, but do you get kind of scared when you look around and see how young the defense is? 
 CODY DAVIS: No, I wouldn't say so. You know, bringing in youth does bring a lack of experience somewhat, but at the same time the intensity is probably even higher, just coming in with more focus and more intensity. Want to go learn the game-plan faster, trying to get in there and show what you've got as a young guy and bring some more intensity to it. 

 Q. How does that change your role being one of the guys that's been here for a while, or does it change your role? 
 CODY DAVIS: Just kind of being there for them. More vocally on the field, getting everybody lined up, knowing the defense a little more than my position, just learning the whole defense so I can get everybody lined up and they can just lean on me if they have any questions or things like that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT