NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS VS CAVALIERS
May 22, 2017
Avery Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Obviously an emotional night last night, big win for you guys.  What's the key for you to move forward and try to build off of the success of last night?
AVERY BRADLEY: I think just being prepared for the game.  I always say using days like this to lock in and make sure we're focused because they're going to come out with a different mentality next game, and we understand that, and it's our job to make sure that we're prepared from the start of the game.  That's something that we want to make sure we're focusing on, coming out with a purpose, so we're not digging a hole for ourselves and trying to come back from being down.  That's our goal, and I think we can accomplish it if we're all locked in at the beginning of the game and have a defensive mindset.
Q. You guys did a lot of good things in that game, particularly from a defensive standpoint, including limiting LeBron to 11 points.  What are you anticipating his play will be like?
AVERY BRADLEY: I think he's going to be aggressive.  I mean, LeBron James understands how to play the game, and he understands what this team needs from him.  He's most likely going to be a lot more aggressive.  It's our job to make sure that we defend him as best we can and just make every -- take other guys out of the game.  I mean, I think Tristan made 12 free throws or something like that?
Q. Yeah, 12 for 15.
AVERY BRADLEY: I mean, he's playing well for them.  We have to try to limit him to less rebounds.  It's going to be hard, but if we're able to do that and guard the three, I like our chances.
Q. You guys were saying that people weren't believing you that much.  Is last game the first time you guys played like you believed in yourselves?
AVERY BRADLEY: No, we always believe in ourselves.  It's not always the outcome that we want, but that's part of the game.  You're going to have ups and downs.  You obviously hear people saying that it's all about how you respond, and we don't feel like people believed in us and counted us out, but that just put another chip on our shoulder, which I think is good, and I hope we can continue to play with that chip on our shoulder and come out the same way next game.
Q. Where is the team's confidence at right now?
AVERY BRADLEY: I feel like it's high, but we can't focus on last night's game anymore.  We have to move on because we can't let that affect our play next game.  You can't come out and think that it's going to be the same outcome, come out and be cool.  We have to come out and attack early.
Q. Have you talked to Isaiah at all since you guys won?
AVERY BRADLEY: Yeah, we talked to him right after the game.  Actually we called him on FaceTime, so he got to celebrate with us a little bit.  Just so sad that he's not here.  We wish he was here with us, and we just want him to get better.
Q. What's it like without him on the court?  It's just different, isn't it?
AVERY BRADLEY: Yeah, it is different.  It's very different.  But all we can do is play hard for him.  Like I said, he was excited with the way that we played.  We're a family, and other guys got opportunities to step up for us, and Marcus [Smart] had a big game for us and could be somebody else next game.
Q. What stood out when you guys looked back at the film this morning?
AVERY BRADLEY: That we had a lot of opportunities to score more on the offensive end.  You know, just like they can go back and look at film and say they could have played better, we could have played a lot better, as well.  I feel like it could have been a different game if we were able to lock in on a few possessions, defense and offense.  It could have been a different game for us, a lot more comfortable win.
Q. They only hit two threes after the half.  Was it less switching?  How did you guys guard the three?
AVERY BRADLEY: I think it's that, and I mean, they were hot.  They were due to miss some shots.  I mean, Kevin Love missed some wide-open shots in the second half that we were like, man, thank God he missed them, and I think it had a lot to do with all the shots he made in the first half because he wasn't missing, and he made some tough shots.
Q. On that FaceTime call, did Isaiah give you any advice or a special message at all?
AVERY BRADLEY: He didn't.  He was just happy.  He was happy.  He was excited.  He sent everybody a text, and then Kelly [Olynyk] just called him, or he might have been calling Kelly right after the game, so it was nice to see a smile on his face.  I just wish he was here.
Q. The final shot, you looked as if you knew it was going in.  You just looked and then turned, and you acted like this is going down.  Did you feel that way?
AVERY BRADLEY: Yeah, I felt like every shot is going in.  I felt like that's how every shooter should think.  I'm just blessed that it was able to go in because I couldn't have got a better look than what I got.
The play that Brad [Stevens] drew up, the screen that Al [Horford] set, I mean, first the cut that Jae [Crowder] made, the screen that Al set and the pass that Marcus was able to make, I mean, it couldn't have been executed better.  It's credit to those guys, especially Al, to be able to get me open the way he did.
Q. It was like a movie, though.
AVERY BRADLEY: It was.  Everyone said that after the game.  It couldn't have ended better.  I mean, everything leading up to that point I feel like was a movie.  It was a fun game to be a part of, and I know the fans appreciated it.
Q. When you guys missed a bunch of shots in the first half, why didn't you hang your head?
AVERY BRADLEY: Because we couldn't.  We have no room to complain and hang our head.  We just have to go out there and play basketball.  That's when we're at our best.  That's when players are at their best, when they're not thinking about it and just out there playing basketball.  We understand that at this point of the season, we've just got to go out there and play.  Whatever happens, happens, but you just play with great energy and leave everything out on the floor.
Q. What do you expect from the Cavs tomorrow night?
AVERY BRADLEY: For them to come out playing hard, being aggressive, LeBron being aggressive, him looking to make plays not only for himself but continuing to make plays for his teammates.  We understand that they're just going to come out and try to attack us next game, and we'll be ready.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT