THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 25, 2019
Meghan MacLaren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  We've sort of been following you around.  Obviously up and down.  Really good fight back.  
MEGHAN MacLAREN: Yeah, it was a tough start, but that can happen, especially on a course like this if you get in the wrong spot.   
So I didn't.  Just hit one or two bad shots and all of a sudden was 3-over after 3.  I was like, Yeah, not quite how you see your day going.   
Practice has been really good.  Played really well when I've been out here this week, so just tried to stay calm, patient.  I knew I was rolling it nice on the greens, so, yeah, nice that it just sort of started clicking after that.   
 Q.  What went through your mind after that?  It's quite physical in the heat.  I guess mentally tough, too.  
MEGHAN MacLAREN: Yeah, can be.  Just because that can -- you can't win on the first day; you can lose it.  You can take yourself out very quickly.   
It was only three holes, so I still had a lot of golf left to play.  I knew that I still felt good.  I just tried not to panic.  Yeah, just fell into place after that.   
 Q.  50 days to go to the Solheim Cup.  What would it mean to be there?  
MEGHAN MacLAREN: I mean, it would be special.  Can't deny that.  It's a product of everything that you put in day in, day out.   
So I'm trying not to think about it too much.  Just trying to be here in the tournament.   
 Q.  Do you have any goals this week or literally just taking it shot by shot?  
MEGHAN MacLAREN: Shot by shot.  It's a cliche but it's all you can try and do.  You can't get ahead of yourself.  I've played well on this course before and I feel a lot more comfortable here than I did this time last year, so just excited to see where my game can put me in a tournament like this.   
 Q.  You talk about compared to a year ago.  What's been the biggest thing to learn or one of the takeaways from this course?  
MEGHAN MacLAREN: You've got to keep it on the fairway because the rough is very thick, and you can't miss the greens in the wrong spots.  That's what I did last year.  So without playing too badly you made bogeys just from not being able to get up and down.   
So even today I missed a couple of greens after the start, but they were always in pretty good spots so I was never struggling too much.   
 Q.  And having come back from the 3-over, do you work with a sports psychologist?  Are you mentally tough?  
MEGHAN MacLAREN: I like to think so, yeah.  Yeah, I work with like the performance coach.  I think it's just being aware of how you feel day by day.  I knew that my game was in a good place and that doesn't just disappear in the space of a few holes.   
It's golf.  We've been out there for close to six hours, so you got a lot of time to recover.   
 Q.  You've made a bit of a name for your activism.  Kind of on a positive note, this seems like -- I don't usually cover golf too often -- (indiscernible.)  
MEGHAN MacLAREN: Yeah, it's a great event.  I've only been here the last couple of years, but I think everybody that you talk to talks about how much it's grown.  They've really looked after it and tried to push it into as big a tournament as it can be.   
You can see how many people are out here enjoying the views.  It's a good showcase for women's golf.   
 Q.  How does it compare with other majors?  
MEGHAN MacLAREN: I haven't played too many so it's hard to say.  Yeah, the scale of every major is big.  I think just you can see the intensity.  The enjoyment as well from all the players.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT