ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 4, 2017
Jeff Walz
Myisha Hines-Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Notre Dame - 84, Louisville - 73.   
JEFF WALZ: First, again, I'd just like to thank the ACC, thank Coastal Carolina for just a fantastic tournament.  Everything has been first-class.  Their hospitality has been fantastic.  I thought the atmosphere was great today, and I think it's been great the entire tournament.   
Just really like to thank everyone involved with putting this together.   
Today I'd just like to congratulate Notre Dame.  I thought they played well.  They made some big shots when they had to, and unfortunately we did not.  I thought both teams played extremely hard, and I thought they played extremely well.  I thought the 10 players on the floor were fantastic, there were just some others that have to improve their game.   
 Q.  Turnovers, points off turnovers, two big factors today.  
JEFF WALZ: We talked about it before the game started, and we talked about it at halftime.  We talked about it at the end of the first quarter, second quarter, third quarter, fourth quarter.  We talked about it in the locker room.  It's a broken record right now, and until we figure that out, that you just can't pick your dribble up, you can't dribble into a double-team and pick it up, you've got a retreat drill, things that we work on.  And unfortunately it cost us tonight, this afternoon.  There's no question about it.   
You look at 19 points off our 18 turnovers, and then 10 points in transition.  Some of them came off our turnovers.  Some of those 10.  But areas that we can easily fix.  I thought we rebounded the ball well.  I thought we did a good job.  We couldn't figure out a way to get to the free-throw line, which that's bad coaching, I guess, so I've got to work on that.   
But besides that, I thought the effort, I thought the energy from both teams, I thought it was a very, very good basketball game.   
 Q.  Can you talk about just having Myisha on the court this time?  She was a huge factor for you guys in the first half, and since she missed the last game against Notre Dame?  
JEFF WALZ: I told her on the way in, I'm just really proud of where she's taken her game over these three years.  When she first got with us, she was around the basket, drive it, make some post moves, and now she's worked on it.  She's extended her range to 15 to 18 feet.  She does a great job of facing up.  She's relentless on the glass, and really, really proud of her.  You know, it's just one of those where we need everybody to keep buying in.  Everybody get in the gym, get a little bit better, little bit better.  We've got two weeks, a week and a half, before we'll figure out who we're going to play and all that good stuff in the NCAA Tournament, and then our goal is to win six games.  That's something that you just can't wait for next Monday on the draw.  You've got to continue to start doing it now, and that's what we're striving for.  Notre Dame is going to be a 1 seed, and well-deserving of that.  I think we're right there.  We just -- when you throw it to the other team, it makes it tough to win, and we did that pretty well.   
 Q.  Jeff, obviously you're going to the NCAA Tournament, and assuming you don't have anything else scheduled for your arena, you're going to get a couple of home games.  What's your regimen going to be over these next couple of weeks as you prepare?  
JEFF WALZ: We'll take tomorrow off and we'll practice on Monday.  We're not going to change up what we do.  We won't go as hard probably the next few days, but we'll work on execution.  We'll work on ourselves, things that we need to get better with, half court execution, defensively, and put them through some game situations.  Like at the end there, we had one team foul with 47 seconds, so I wanted to get the next four without the ball getting in and throwing inbounds.  So just get up there and grab them.  Sit there and play defense, hold them when they cut, it's a foul.  I mean, I just love the intentional foul.  So I thought, again, that's fantastic.   
 Q.  I have a two-part question for you since you opened the door on it.  Can you explain to me how that was called intentional versus a common foul?  
JEFF WALZ: I think that's your alternative facts.  I think that's you coming up with different ways to spin things.  I've said that all along.  It's just mindboggling to me.  Some people like the attention, like to be out there in the limelight, and unfortunately it's a simple foul.  She fouled her.  Yeah, she shoved her, a little flop involved, too.  Just take the ball out of bounds, that's the third team foul, and go on.  And that's not what changed the game.  It's just mindboggling to me, to be honest with you.   
 Q.  The second part of the question is just this conference, you have seven teams in the top 25, you'll probably have four or five teams potentially hosting the first two rounds.  Talk about how the ACC conference is a bear to play in.  
JEFF WALZ: No, it's been great, and we're honored to be a part of it and in it.  I go back to my first two years when we were in the old Big East, and to me that's what I can compare it to because that's where I started, and it's what it reminds me of, and if not a little bit better, that every single night you've got to show up.  You've got to play.   
You know, there's no doubt in my mind eight teams from our league are going to make the tournament.  Virginia without a doubt should make it, with their win over Florida State the other day.  They've been playing some great basketball.  And then you've got the seven that are ranked.  I'm not just saying eight are going to make it, I'm expecting eight to win.  I'm expecting this league to win some ballgames in the NCAA Tournament.  We have some great players, very well-coached, and it's been fun.  It makes it fun as a coach, and I think it makes it fun as a player.  That's why they come here, to play against the best.   
 Q.  Myisha, you had a double-double today; you also got a really good performance out of Kylee Shook.  Just talk about the game that she had and how this may help her down the road?  
MYISHA HINES-ALLEN: Towards the end of the game she started hitting threes so I feel like she'll start getting more confident in her three-point shot.  She's one of our best three-point shooters.  As far as the post, she's our best post player out shooting threes.  So she's gotten a lot better since the beginning of the season.  She's getting a lot stronger.  But I feel like from today, she should be more confident with her shot.   
 Q.  I don't like to play what-ifs, but with Briahanna Jackson maybe a different game for you?  
JEFF WALZ: I'm not -- B.J., I texted with her, she said she's feeling better, which is a good thing for us.  But it is what it is.  And we've been playing a month without her, so it's not like we just found out a day ago she wasn't going to play.  I mean, I'm really pleased with where we are.  You know, we shot 48 percent from the field.  It's like I tell our kids, when we get shots, we actually shoot it pretty well.  But when you turn the damned things over 18 times, it's kind of tough.  It's hard to score when the other team has got the ball.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT