ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 7, 2015
Mariya Moore
Jeff Walz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   We'll get started with an opening statement from coach and then take questions for the student‑athletes. 
COACH WALZ:   Congratulations to Florida State.   I thought they came out with a lot of energy.   Played extremely hard.   Did a great job of executing in the first half.   We were extremely poor again.   I mean it's twice that we played them and unfortunately, they come out two times, and I'll take the blame for it.   I've got to figure out a way to get some of these kids motivated to get going, to get the games off to a better start. 
You get down ‑‑ I think it's 24 in the first half ‑‑ and then you climb all the way back and get it to a 2‑point game and then you expend so much energy to just get back to that point that you have a breakdown.   And we give up a wide open three. 
So, you know, it's things we have to figure out, our kids have to figure out.   We have to figure out as a staff.   Because you can't play somebody twice now and spot them 20 points each game and then expect to win.   Because we're sitting there in a 2‑point game with, I don't know, about a 10 or 11 minutes to go, and if you show up at all, to start it off, it's probably a different outcome. 

Q.   You were talking about energy.   The circumstances of your game last night compared to the circumstances of Florida State's game, do you think that carries over?
COACH WALZ:   No, you can't do anything about it.   You know going into the game if you're the three seed you're playing that 8:30 game on Friday night.   Then you've got a quick turn around for a 2:30 game.   So, you know it going into it. 
So it's not like we played last night, it goes overtime, you win and all of a sudden they say, hey, by the way, you're playing at 2:30.   So we knew it.   Is it ideal?   Of course it's not.   But it's part of it.   So, it's not an excuse.   We did not come prepared to play and that's a shame on us. 

Q.   In your 29‑7 comeback run what did your kids do really well?
COACH WALZ:   We actually followed a scouting report.   We forced their point guard left instead of the first half, we allowed her to go right every time and shoot a pull up jump shot and score.   We made her go left.   She may have scored one or two points in the second half, if that, and I thought she was a big part of their first half. 
We did a better job at rebounding until we cut it to a 2‑point game and give up an offensive board and an and‑one.   It's things like that that I thought we did a much better job of defensively. 
At the offensive end, we finally started executing.   We started actually running some things instead of just trying to freelance.   Because as I've said before and I'll keep saying it, we're not a team that can just get their own shot.   We have to rely on each other, we have to have good ball movement, we have to set screens for each other. 
We'll see if we stay in the Top‑10 here.   But as I said yesterday, we're the only Top‑10 team in the country that does not have a first team all‑conference player on it.   So I think that just shows you that we have to play as a team.   We have got to be able to execute and run things. 
I thought that there for awhile we tried to do a little bit too much of one‑on‑one.   Then we veered out of plays, trying to create our own mismatches.   But during that run I thought we did a great job of just being patient and executing and finishing around the basket. 

Q.   To build on what your coach said without having the high all conference player, what do you think's been the key to the team's success this year?
MARIYA MOORE:   I think passing, finding the open player.   When we are on the same page and executing plays it's really when it looks the best. 

Q.   What have you thought about your first experience in the ACC tournament?
COACH WALZ:   It's been great.   Obviously, I've been here before at Maryland.   It's a first class event.   It's run extremely well.   It's a great experience for the players. 
When you get the opportunity to see things run the way it is, and just everything, the media here, you've got the press room, you come in here, you do this.   It's a great experience for our players. 
So, it's been good.   It's been good.   Unfortunately, we're going home a day earlier than we had wanted to, but in the grand scheme of things, it's been a great experience for our young women. 
MARIYA MOORE:   I think it's been a great experience.   I don't know of any league that's harder than this.   This is a really a tough league.   Every night you're playing a team that is really good.   So, I feel like it's been a great year, no matter the outcome, it's been a really good year. 

Q.   This time next week you're going to be preparing to play in the NCAA tournament.   Are there anything specifically you feel like you need to work on in preparation to get that tournament started?
COACH WALZ:   Well, we're going to really need to work on half‑court execution.   When you get in the NCAA tournament, it's going to come down to as you advance, whoever can execute in the half court better is going to win. 
Because you're going to play enough good teams and a talented teams that you're not just going to be able to press and steal the ball and shoot layups. 
So if you can't execute in the half court offensively, it really makes it a challenge.   So we're going to have to go back and really work on going through some things, making sure we're setting screens and using screens, timing of plays, what we're looking for out of some plays.   Making sure some kids know the plays. 
Because there are times where you have to come out and run a set that it affects things if you're on the floor and you don't know what you're doing. 
THE MODERATOR:   All right.   Thank you. 
COACH WALZ:   Thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT