SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 7, 2019
Terri Williams-Flournoy
Janiah McKay
Unique Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Auburn-53, Alabama-52
THE MODERATOR: We are joined by Auburn.  Coach, if you could make an opening statement, please.
TERRI WILLIAMS-FLOURNOY: It was definitely a tough game.  As everybody knows, hard to beat a team three times.  Alabama was playing well.  They played very well yesterday.  They came out and they played just as well today.
I'm very proud of our young ladies.  They continued to fight, were relentless, kept getting after it.  We knew we had to have had a good fourth quarter.
THE MODERATOR: We'll direct questions to the student-athletes.
Q. Either Janiah or Unique, what was going so well for you defensively?
JANIAH McKAY: I think our press starts with our tops, and our tops started to apply more pressure.  We knew we had to come up and help.  We just knew we had to come back.  We didn't win a quarter, so we knew we had to increase our pressure and try to get some turnovers.
Q. What went so well for you guys offensively in the fourth quarter?
UNIQUE THOMPSON: We began attacking them more.  We realized we were in the bonus.  In the fourth quarter, we knew when we got the turnovers, we had to score in transition.  Offensive rebounds helped us a lot, too, in the fourth quarter.
Q. Now you have Texas A&M up next.  What immediately comes to mind when you think of their team?
JANIAH McKAY: Texas A&M is always a tough team to beat.  We just have to buckle down, watch film, study the scout, just get prepared.  It's an exciting part of the season.  We played them before.  It was a very close game.
We just want to refocus, take the good things away from that game and improve defensively and sharing the ball offensively.
Q. Janiah, it is hard to beat a team three times.  You're a senior now?  Why is it so hard?
JANIAH McKAY: It's so tough.  You've seen that team multiple times.  It's not just any team, it's Alabama.  That is one of the toughest games that we play every year.  We knew that they were going to come out just as hard.
We came out flat to start the game, so we knew we had to pick up our intensity, enjoy the moment, move forward.  We have to learn from this.  It's going to be difficult to beat a tough Texas A&M team playing the way we played today.
TERRI WILLIAMS-FLOURNOY: 1975 was the last time we beat Alabama three times, 1975.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Janiah and Unique.  We'll finish with questions for head coach.
Q. Texas A&M tomorrow.  You probably haven't had time to do much scouting on them yet.  What do you see as maybe a difference they might show tomorrow opposed to the first time you played them?
TERRI WILLIAMS-FLOURNOY: Just like everyone in this league, we know everybody.  I think Texas A&M has some players that are playing really well right now for the inside and the post players.  If there's an all-improved player that we give an award to, she definitely gets it.
They're hitting outside shots.  They have a very good point guard.  People will say they don't have Chennedy Carter.  Doesn't matter.  Texas A&M is a very good team.  Coach Blair is a very good coach.  He's going to come with something.
Q. You were able to shake off a rough free-throw shooting game at LSU.  How big was that today?  How big is that going to be moving forward?
TERRI WILLIAMS-FLOURNOY: Free throws were huge.  We shot 10-for-11 in the fourth quarter.  It came down to us just having to knock down some free throws.  We didn't shoot the ball extremely well.  We shoot free throws every single day.  We put them on the line.  We really work at the free-throw shooting because it does come down to it as it did today.
Q. 29 points off of 26 turnovers, second half.  Were you able to wear them down throughout the first three quarters, apply the pressure?
TERRI WILLIAMS-FLOURNOY: Yeah, we knew we had to keep pressing, we were.  That's what we do.  We knew eventually we could wear them down.  Cierra was handling the ball the majority of the time.  She got a little tired.  We started upping the pressure a little bit, trying to close up traps a little more, trying to put the ball in someone else's hands.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.
TERRI WILLIAMS-FLOURNOY: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT