NHL ENTRY DRAFT
June 26, 1999
Brian Burke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. When did this all come together and how difficult was it to orchestrate?
 
 BRIAN BURKE: The whole thing came together about ten minutes before we went to air,
maybe 15 minutes before we went to air today. We started work on this with Chicago the day
they won the lottery. It's been kind of a big chess game ever since then.  
 
Q. Follow that up with how important was it to have not just one Sedin, but both
Sedins. 
 
 BRIAN BURKE: Well, we paid a very high price to make this deal, in my opinion. You
know, Chicago is getting an excellent defenseman and a first round pick back. Bob Murray
did a good job on this. To our way of thinking, the price was worth it because we felt
that one twin standing alone had very little value because they made it clear they weren't
going to come right away and they weren't going to come for two years unless they played
on the same team. We felt there was a chemistry they have as players that was worthwhile,
that the sum of the two was greater than the individual parts broken down. I think it's
critical from our standpoint. That was the strategy from the get-go, as far as if we
couldn't get the first pick overall, which we didn't, until right before, and I'll explain
that more in a moment, we wanted to try to get the pair of them. We're very pleased we got
them both. We had very -- publicly we felt Patrik Stefan was most ready to play in this
draft. We still believe that. The package deal we put together this morning by acquiring
the first pick overall included the condition that we not select Patrik Stefan. This was a
deal put together with Atlanta and with Tampa Bay, that everyone got the player they
wanted. That was, again, no deception on our part. As I told our media, that's the only
time of the year we feel free to mislead the media, if we have to. 
 
Q. Do you believe they can play in the National Hockey League next year? Do you think
you will have any problems with their contracts in Sweden? 
 
 BRIAN BURKE: They have made it clear from the get-go that initially their plan was to
play another year in Sweden, at least, and that if they were not drafted as a panel or
acquired as a package, they would play a second year in Sweden. We are hopeful to be able
to get them for next year. But we're prepared to wait for a year, if that's the way it
plays out. I think they're ready to play. For those hockey fans who saw the Sedin twins
play in the World Junior Tournament, I don't think they had a great tournament. We
certainly did not have them rated as highly after that tournament as we did after the
World Championships when they played extremely well.  
 
Q. Once you secured the second and third pick, was there any thought given to taking
Daniel Sedin and Pavel Brendl or was that also part of the deal?
 
 BRIAN BURKE: That was part of the package. But I will tell you, had there been no
strings attached, we would have drafted the Sedin twins at 2 and 3, even if there had been
no conditions on that pick. 
 
Q. What has to happen now to get them in Vancouver for next year? What kind of things
do you have to do? Do you have a strategy in place? 
 
 BRIAN BURKE: Well, obviously we have to sign them both. There's an issue on where
they're going to play unless they agree to terms. So we have to worry about that. Then to
sort out what, if anything, the relationship is contractually with their club in Sweden,
with MoDo. I believe our agreement with the IHF allows us to take the players even if they
have time remaining. We have to sign them first before there's any issue about where
they're going to play. 
 
Q. I wonder if you could tell us about the players, why you wanted these two guys so
badly, to make a huge deal like this? 
 
 BRIAN BURKE: Well, they're different players. Daniel is more of a shooter, more of a
scorer. Henrik is more of a possession guy and a play-maker. But having watched them play,
I mean, these guys were voted the co MVPs of the Swedish elite league. That's impossible.
That's simply not possible. Players at 17, that's an outstanding league, you're playing
against men. It was an amazing feat. To watch them in Oslo and Hamar during the World
Championships, they had no problems with the physical side of the game. They both protect
the puck well. I think Daniel shoots the puck a little bit better. They both protect the
puck well, pass the puck well. By the midpoint of the tournament, the Swedish coach was
using them in all key situations, including power-play and shorthanded. Last minute of
each period, penalty killing. These kids at this point are 17 or 18 years old playing
against men. They did not have any trouble even against the North American team. It was at
that point that our rating of these players went up dramatically and we started to work to
acquire them.  
 
Q. Do you think you were the most determined team to get both of them or did you have
to outflank somebody else to get them? 
 
 BRIAN BURKE: I think you'd have to ask some of the teams above or below us, Chicago,
what other teams were in. We targeted this. These deals on draft day don't just happen, as
you all know. A few years ago I made a deal on Hartford involving a player named Chris
Pronger. The work on that started a month before. Work on this deal started when Chicago
won the lottery. We realized we weren't dealing with the Islanders for the fourth pick. Up
until then, we were working on the Islanders for the pick. I will say we're very pleased
to get two players of this stature in Canada. I think this is a good day for the Canadian
teams.  
 
Q. Can you take us through the anatomy of this deal; when it started, came together? 
 
 BRIAN BURKE: It would take too long. I'll try the Reader's Digest version.  
 Once Chicago made the lottery, I think what enabled to us make this deal is we said
from the get-go that we were not going to trade the pick and we were going to take a twin
if there was one there, no matter what. By sticking to that, I think we were convinced
that no one else was going to leave with the twins. Someone might leave with one, but no
one else was going to leave with both of them. We started extensive discussions with the
teams above, again, with Chicago, then the teams above us. We had no indication that we'd
be able to move up in this deal at all. Both Tampa Bay and Atlanta indicated they were not
going to trade their pick. I don't think it really took hold until last night when I told
both teams that, "Look, I've got four." That had not been announced to anyone.
"I'm telling you right now, we're leaving with the two best players on the chart. No
one's leaving with both the twins, just us. We're the only team that can leave with them
both. We might leave with a twin and Brendl, a twin and Stefan, but no one is walking out
of here with twins but us." At that point I think that was the pressure that led to
the deal as far as talking to both Atlanta and Tampa Bay into the deal. 
 
Q. What time was that? 
 
 BRIAN BURKE: We finished up with Atlanta about quarter to 2:00, we finished up with
Tampa Bay about 2:30, I guess, 2:15. So if I look tired, it's because I am (laughter).  
 
Q. That's when it was all done?
 
 BRIAN BURKE: We did it on the floor before we went on air, ten minutes before the
broadcast started.  
 
Q. I know you might not be able to answer this, but considering that Tampa Bay was
adamant about going with the young players, keeping their first round pick, are you
surprised that they didn't pick at all in the first four?
 
 BRIAN BURKE: I'm surprised in this draft that anyone traded a player in the top four.
But I think my first reaction to the deal is I think they got some good players back. I
wouldn't be critical of that deal. I think Brendl -- as I've told our media, Brendl is a
can't-miss player. In my question, it's a question of how many goals he's going to score,
not can he play. I think Patrik Stefan's head is fine. He is clearly the most ready to
play out of this group. I think all four of these guys are going to be good players. That
being said, I was surprised, but I wouldn't be critical of that deal because I do think
they got some quality back. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT