WNBA FINALS: FEVER v MERCURY
September 29, 2009
Lin Dunn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 THE MODERATOR: Coach, thanks for coming in. If you could start with an opening statement then we will go into questions.

 LIN DUNN: I thought it was a great way to start the WNBA Finals, didn't you? What a game! I'm sure the fans loved it, really intense. I just thought it was great to be part of this first game. 
 You know, in the first half Taylor came off the bench and really hurt us. I thought we had control of the game and she came in and we couldn't deal with her but we crawled back in but when you look at the stat sheet, the second chance points, they got 20 second chance points, they outrebounded us, and they shouldn't be doing that and I thought there were times when we missed crucial boxouts and they rebounded, and down the stretch I thought we should win in regular time. I thought this was great that we were able to battle and compete and win in the first game. 

Q. Your team had that much offense in it? 
 LIN DUNN: Sure I did! When the ball goes in we're really good! I thought we got great looks at the basket, we went at Tammy Sutton-Brown right from the get-go, I thought there were times she should have gotten to the free-throw line but we got physical inside, I thought Katie Douglas did a super job, we got points from five people in double figures, yep, five, that was good for us. We shot, whew, 55% from the field so that's pretty good. I'm telling ya, at the end of the day we can't give up 24 second-chance points. We got to figure out something to do with Penny Taylor when she comes in the first half. We made adjustments in the second half, I think she had 4 points in the second half, so she hurt us. 

 Q. Coach, what adjustment did you make on Taylor in the second half? 
 LIN DUNN: Put some emphasis on her. I moved Catchings over to Penny Taylor and I moved Katie Douglas over to Diana Taurasi. It's a handful when you have Cappie Pondexter, Diana Taurasi and Penny Taylor out there on the perimeter, they're big, quick, they can all shoot three's, but they were able to get her under control there in the second half. 

 Q. You ever think you would be able to stay with, if playing their game because you ended up playing their tempo and not yours. If you honestly didn't see the game that we beat them here, we played uptempo, we ran and we won. We are a running time, we like to run so I knew we could run with them, I wasn't concerned about that. I thought that we would be able to push the ball up and down the floor and get some good early shots, early post-ups, just like they did so that didn't surprise me at all that we could play their tempo. 

 Q. Can you talk about Tamika's night and Ebony Hoffman's night? 
 LIN DUNN: I thought Tamika was bothered by fouls early on, and it was frustrating with her, and she had to deal with guarding Diana most of the night and when you look at the stat sheet, you know, we did a lot of different things trying to keep her from touching the ball and she made some big three's, right there at the end, and I think if we can get Catch in a flow we can get more offense out of her but her rebounding and her defense, she helped us in a lot of ways. 

 Q. And Ebony? 
 LIN DUNN: I'm sure when we look at the tape we're going to say why didn't we get her the ball more. She stepped up big for us inside and outside, no doubt! 
 LIN DUNN: Tell those fans to get back here and fill up the stands Thursday night! 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT