WNBA FINALS: FEVER v LYNX
October 17, 2012
Lin Dunn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









COACH DUNN:   Well, I've been coaching for 42 years now and that's probably the most physical game I've ever been a part of.   It was just a war out there, bodies flying everybody, and unfortunately it seems like we've lost another player to an injury and we'll just have to adapt to that.
I did not think we responded to how physical they were playing.   It was just bodies flying, hitting, chucking, slamming, shoving and we didn't respond to that, and if that's the way the game is going to be played we have to match that.
I think had we matched that, perhaps we could have stolen another game.   But to come in here and get one game is big for us.   Now we go back home.
And once again, the thing that sticks out is the rebounding, the second‑chance points that they got based on the fact that they out‑rebounded us with their physicality, and I was real disappointed that we did not match their rebounding; their aggressiveness and their rebounding.
But we battled, we battled, we battled.   I thought we wore down physically because we didn't have near as many bodies as they had.   But we'll regroup and get back home, and we'll adapt to, I don't know what to call it, I'm not going to call it basketball. 
Maybe it's basket‑football or something.   But it was pretty rough out there and we are going to have to adapt to that.

Q.   Can you talk about your depth going forward, what do you know about Pohlen? 
COACH DUNN:   Not good.   So when a game is that physical and it's allowed to play that way, it's inevitable somebody is going to get hurt. 
Karima Christmas is going to have to play and hopefully Katie Douglas will be back.   We don't know.   But we are obviously short some guards now, and we'll just have to figure out something to do.   Maybe Tammy Sutton‑Brown can play the wing, I'm not sure, we'll see.

Q.   What did you know was different defensively? 
COACH DUNN:   More physical‑‑

Q.   They forced‑‑
COACH DUNN:   Jam cuts, slam bodies, impeding progress, couldn't cut where you wanted to cut.   Much more physical than they were in the first game and on the defensive end.   And then on the offensive end, they were cutting much harder and there was a much greater sense of urgency. 
I don't want to take anything way from the Lynx.   They played great.   They played how they needed to play to win the ballgame, and their sense of urgency with their physicalness and their sense of urgency with their hard, hard cuts was tough for us to handle. 

Q.   Sometimes coaches use technicals, displays of emotion to fire up their team and it seems that Cheryl got pretty upset and they seemed to feed off it; did you get the sense they were feeding off they are emotions?
COACH DUNN:   She got a technical, I got a technical.   I got the first warning trying to communicate to the official the type of time‑out I wanted, whether I wanted a 20 or a full, and I got a warning for talking to him. 
I think both of our teams kind of fed off the energy there.   You know, you just have to adapt to the way the game is going to be played.   You have to match that.   And we knew they with come out with a hard punch and I thought we would match that early on.
But as it went on, with the physicality of the game, we just wore down physically because we just didn't have enough bodies like they did.   We didn't have near the rotations that they had. 
But we'll go home and we'll be ready and we'll figure out something to do without Pohlen.   But we've got to rebound better.   I was disappointed that we gave up as many offensive rebounds as we did.   I didn't think Larkins did the job on the boards that she's been doing. 
Give Taj credit, Taj was very physical and aggressive on the boards.   32‑20, it's tough to win in somebody else's gym.   We shot the ball well.   We shot 48 percent but the turnovers, a lot of them were caused by their aggressiveness.   They were very aggressive, and I thought their game plan was to attack us offensively and defensively and be very physical, and they did that, and that's how they won the ballgame.   And we didn't respond well enough to it.

Q.   When you see Seimone and Maya's totals at halftime, did you feel you were dodging it for the moment and they were going to warm up? 
COACH DUNN:   We did a really good job I thought on Maya first game.   But I thought we wore down.   We wore down physically and I thought that affected us in the second half.   I think there were times there where some of our players lost their poise a little bit when they didn't get a call, and you can't let that happen. 
You get slammed and it's no call; you've got to keep playing.   You have to play through that.   I would have thought by the third quarter, fourth quarter, this is how it's going to be called and this is how it's going to be played, and so you have to be played through it, and I didn't think we did a good job dealing with that‑‑ at times, at times.

Q.   It seemed like with you are Erlena every time she went to a rebound, she had two people behind her in, football we call it back bracketing a receiver0.
COACH DUNN:   I think they were determined not to let her get on the boards and determined to be as physical as they were allowed to be, and I felt like she really that bother her a little bit.   I thought they did a good job saying, okay, we are going to try to keep you off the boards tonight.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT