NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: CAPITALS v RED WINGS
June 13, 1998
Brendan Shanahan
Esa Tikkanen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  It was tough for you guys.  You probably had the best view.  35 seconds you were all over Steve Yzerman and the puck still scored it out for Holmstrom for the goal. Tell us a bit from your vantage point.

ESA TIKKANEN: He was a couple steps in front of me. I got him the last second, and he is lying against the goals, the puck coming lose and Holmstrom put it empty net.  Those happened, but after that, couple penalty killings could kill us.  That is big for us, right now 1-nothing behind in the second period, it is good for us.


Q.  Caps the first shot-on-goal, none after that. Outshot 13-1; is that alarming to you?

ESA TIKKANEN: Yeah. Our powerplay have to become better.  If we want to win the game right now we have to shoot the puck more often.  Right now we are looking forward, try to shoot the puck more.


Q.  Any time in that first period did you think about your miss from Game 2?

ESA TIKKANEN: No, I am not.  That has happened. That is gone right now.  Hopefully, second I am going in the second period and score a goal.
 


Q.  Every time you get to the Finals last couple of games you get an early lead; that has got to be a bit of a luxury?

BRENDAN SHANAHAN:  We realize how important it is to get off to a good start, especially coming into this arena, we knew that they were going to have a lot of emotion and we wanted to jump on them early.  And, we had a lot of shots on goal.  Our goalie made some big big saves, but we were rewarded early by going to the net.


Q.  Having said that, to outplay a team like that and have only the skinny one goal lead; does that work against you in anyway?

BRENDAN SHANAHAN:  I rather have one goal than none at all.  We just have to be relentless and not look at the shot clock or anything like that; stick to our game and more important than us getting lot of shots is us playing solid defensively and eliminating their chances of shots.  So, one period they are probably nervous, they are going to come out a little bit better.  We have to be coming out prepared for that.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT