NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: CAPITALS v RED WINGS
June 12, 1998
Nicklas Lidstrom
Brendan Shanahan
Steve Yzerman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Talk about what they must be thinking after having you guys down 3 to 1 and 4 to 2 and still not been able to win, you know, basically being right there to be one-to-one?
 
STEVE YZERMAN: I can't really say specifically what they are thinking, but I am sure as they focus more on their next game, 2-1 isn't such a bad position to be in if they can win their home games.  So, I would imagine that they are preparing for Game 3 and putting the game in Detroit behind them.  The next game is a crucial game for both teams. 
 

Q.  The Caps have been saying previously?  These Playoffs, because they won 5 overtimes in a row that they could go into overtime and feel good about themselves.  Now that you have had this kind of come back in this particular Final series, if you are down in any situation in the next few games, are you going to be able to draw on what happened last night, Brendan?
 
BRENDAN SHANAHAN: Well, a game like that is always something you can draw from, the experience.  I mean, it always -- teams that get to this point of the Playoffs have character, but that is certainly something you can build on and it is a builder and it is also, you know, helps with the confidence and, you know, I thought the real key was when Joe Juneau scored, we answered that one right back and the fans were still cheering over Steve's goal and he kind of silenced the fans, but our team pressed on and certainly it is a confidence builder and a nice experience, but at the same time like Steve said this next one everybody kind of put that one behind them and regardless of how you win the game, it is a win and you have got to start thinking about the next one. 
 

Q.  To any of you. Do you guys feel you have played close to your best yet in the series?
 
NICKLAS LIDSTROM: Well, I thought in Game 2 last night we played a lot stronger throughout the 60 minutes than we did in the first game.  But, I thought they had some lucky breaks, but they made them happen too.  They had guys jumping on pucks, going to the net and being there for rebounds, so, they created a lot more chances last night.  But I thought our response to that was a lot better last night than in game No. 1. 
 
BRENDAN SHANAHAN: I agree, I think the intensity of both teams improve for Game 2 and sometimes in a game like that where you are taking chances it may lead to mistakes and it wasn't as tight a game as maybe both teams are used to playing, but sometimes in games like that, everybody just  goes all out and I don't know if you are going to see if that is the trend, but I think as a team, we feel that we -- that kind of intensity and offensive pressure is something that we want to do, but I think we would like to tighten up defensively as a team as well.  So, as a team, I think we can still play better. 
 

Q.  Steve, I know you guys haven't been in town that long, but do you guys get any type of vibe that Washington -- the city is into the Cup crazy or whatever you want to call it like Detroit?
 
STEVE YZERMAN:  We have been here about 45 minutes (LAUGHTER) so, it is a little too early yet.  I can only say that we watched the games in the Buffalo series on television, and the building seemed pretty alive and there seemed to be a lot of enthusiasm in the building, so, I would imagine it will grow.  But we just got into town. 
 

Q.  The way you guys played last night, where you let it all hang out, is that the way you like to play hockey or you like to play like previously?
 
STEVE YZERMAN:  It is the way we like to play; our coach doesn't care for it.  LAUGHTER).  No, we are not a wide-open town.  We try and base our play around solid defensively and generate scoring chances off that.  We don't necessarily open it up or -- our No. 1 goal when we play is to limit the opponent's scoring chances.  Yeah, it was an uncharacteristic game, but we were being forced down. 
 

Q.  Were you guys ever harassing Draper about not having any points in the last night in the Playoffs?
 
STEVE YZERMAN:  I wasn't aware of that.  He is a pretty sensitive guy, so we let him off. 
 

Q.  Do you feel you have given Olie something to think about now?
 
STEVE YZERMAN:  I don't personally know him.  I just watched him be interviewed a few times in some of his comments and he really carries himself well and seems to be in control and pretty calm and level-headed.  So, I don't think just from watching him or watching how he has handled himself, he doesn't seem like the kind of guy who gets too rattled or is going to, you know, lose his confidence or start worrying about things.  I expect him to rebound.  I don't -- he played great.  So, I mean, he can't -- there is nothing he can do on a few of the goals.  He played great so I am sure he played good about the game although not winning it, he played a great game. 
 

Q.  I know it is only two games, but it is hard not to think that you have it; that it is there already.
 
BRENDAN SHANAHAN: I don't think as a team we feel that way and I think that the closer you get, the less you  allow yourself to get ahead of yourself and it is way too early to think like that.  We know that it is not -- you don't win the Stanley Cup by winning two games or three games, but you have to win four games and even last year while most of the city celebrated and prepared to win, we were the last ones to celebrate.  We waited until we had actually won the fourth game and so, no, we don't feel that way.  We are happy to be up 2-nothing, but at the same time, we know that we are coming into Washington where they are going to be very excited and we have got a huge test in front of us and we are going to have to play better.  I think we have to improve with each game.  They are going to be a big test.  We don't feel that way. 
 

Q.  The Caps feel like they have been passing a lot of turnovers in their own zone.  What have you guys been able to do to make that happen?
 
NICKLAS LIDSTROM: Well, I think we have had -- we have been playing our system well.  We have been taking away the boards a lot, too.  We have been talking a lot about taking the boards away at their end and that has been working for us.  When the puck is shot, and the "D" is pinching, we have guys backing him up and forwards are there to take the puck around the boards.  I think that is one of the keys for us that we have been good around the boards. 
 

Q.  Brendan was talking about the celebration last year and we -- although it was cut short with the tragedy and tomorrow, is the one year anniversary of the accident.  All three of you guys, your thoughts on playing the game tomorrow and on the two guys.  Also is it good to have a game so you don't sit around maybe thinking about it all day.
 
NICKLAS LIDSTROM: Well, what happened last year was, like you said, a big tragedy.  I haven't really thought much about that date coming up tomorrow, but I think the whole team is just focused on being in the Finals right now, concentrating on the games that are ahead of us here.  I think that is what we have to do.  We have to be focused on the games and not try not to think too much about what happened last year right now. 
 
BRENDAN SHANAHAN: Yeah, I think that with it being the one-year anniversary, it is not that significant to our team because we think about them everyday and you know, we are very involved and very interested and stay, you know, we are all emotionally attached and involved with how they are doing.  But we have also, as a team, done our best not to exploit their injury as a way of getting up for games or getting a crowd going or anything like that.  It is much more -- their injuries really don't have anything to do with hockey.  It has to do with friendship and, you know, so thinking about that is not something that  really we go into a game talking about or anything like that.  It is always on our minds and in our hearts. 
 

Q.  What is really been the margin of difference between the two teams after two games and also what type of desperate effort level do you expect from Washington in Game 3?
 
STEVE YZERMAN:  I don't know that there has been a real -- a great difference between the two teams.  You know, you can point directly to anything -- they have one powerplay goal in the two games.  I don't think we have one.  Both teams' penalty killing units are very good.  There really hasn't been a significant difference between the two.  Going into game 3, I expect them to come out flying and play their best game.  It is a pivotal game in the series.  Being No. 2, nothing isn't -- really is a caution for us because we haven't played in their building yet. First game in Washington Stanley Cup Finals, so obviously the building is -- going to be a lot of excitement in the building and, like I said, I expect them to just be flying and play a great game and we have to be prepared when that game starts to be able to keep up and match. 
 

Q.  Talk a little bit about the confidence that it has given you after last night's game.  You guys came back.  You won the game.  Tell us how you feel the day after.
 
STEVE YZERMAN:  Tired right now, actually.  I don't know, you just play one game and win or lose, you know, it is really now we stopped thinking about last night's game and more getting ready getting prepared for tomorrow's game.  So, don't put a lot of stock into the previous game whether it is good or bad.  I don't know that momentum necessarily carries over from one game to the next.  It can change very quickly.  But, we are can confident, I guess, in ourselves regardless of win or lose.  But again we -- it was great to win.  We are thrilled to come back and win.  Like I said, it is an understatement, but we can't expect to just go out and win the next game without being prepared and doing the right things again.  So, you play the game and move on to the next one. 
 

Q.  You guys have been getting goals from guys like Brown and Lapointe.  Seems like they are almost, in a way, a surprise here, has it become less and less of a surprise when guys like Marty and Doug and Kris come through with those kinds of goals for you seemingly every night?
 
BRENDAN SHANAHAN: They have scored goals for us all year long and maybe you get more of an -- more the national attention on your team during the Playoffs, but I think as a group of guys, we have come to expect that from our team throughout the season.  So, it is, I think, a huge asset and a bonus for us that we have really a lot of depth when it  comes to playing the game.  But at the same time, we are not really surprised.  I think those guys are getting the credit that they have deserved for a long time. 
 

Q.  I was wondering in regards to the accident again, sometimes an event in your life makes you put a different perspective on things.  I was wondering if your approach to the Stanley Cup, if this means something a little bit different or has a little bit different emphasis because you realize there are other things in life that sometimes are --
 
STEVE YZERMAN:  I guess at the time last year when we won the Stanley Cup, I think we are all thinking, even our whole city was thinking that this was the most significant thing that could ever happen to us and six days later we realized that this isn't the biggest thing in our life or maybe the most significant thing that could happen.  Looking back on it a year later, I guess now when Brendan was talking about, you know, what we think about -- as we go into games to prepare, it is not something we use to motivate ourselves or exploit - I think is what Brendan said - to get ourselves ready to play or generate enthusiasm or support or whatnot.  It is kind of separate from hockey, but it definitely -- it was a strong reminder that it is not the most significant thing, you know, playing hockey isn't the most significant thing that will happen in your life.  But, and I think one thing it helped us that we are able to keep things in perspective when we play and what that does, it enables you to relax and play and play under a little bit more control and prepare and not necessarily be really extremely nervous or get extremely down when you win or for that matter, be on top of the world -- or down when you lose and be on top of the world when you win.  I think we grew up from what happened and we learned a lot.  Not that we take anything onto the ice with us, but I think it has changed our perspectives a little.  Maybe for it has benefited our hockey indirectly, I guess. 
 

Q.  Even though the Capitals answered right back, the short handed goals seemed to give you guys a bit of a jump last night.  Steve or Brendan, can you talk about that and did it?
 
BRENDAN SHANAHAN: I think he should talk about it. He scored it.  I was just cheering on the bench. 
 
STEVE YZERMAN:  Yeah, it got things going.  Again, the more important goal, at the time it was significant, but they came and they scored like two seconds right after that. The significant, the more important one was Marty coming back again because they had a two-goal lead and Marty comes back and scores.  That was the one that really -- we were getting scoring chances up until the point of the shorthanded goal and we continued with that after.  So, coming back really quickly was with -- Marty's  goal was the most significant one because they are at 4-2 and if they are able to play a few more minutes and we are not able to score, it gets a little bit more difficult so that one was really the key one. 
 

Q.  Steve and Brendan, obviously the first goal always is important in every game -- if it comes in the second period or the third period, but you guys are consistently scoring your first few shots on goal.  First of all, are you guys aware of that even and how important does that become?
 
BRENDAN SHANAHAN: Getting the lead is obviously important in any game, but with the pressure of the Stanley Cup Finals, it is even more important.  I don't think you are ever going to have a team collapse or give up just because they have been scored upon first.  But at the same time, it is always more taxing on yourself and on your team to play catchup hockey.  You can get away with it a couple of times here and there, but if you are consistently playing catchup hockey, you are certainly going to wear your team out more. 
 
STEVE YZERMAN:  I think it is nice to score early in a game.  For a goaltender, I think they make some saves early and they keep you off the board.  They kind of get stronger and stronger and it becomes more difficult to score as the game goes on, I guess call it getting into a zone or whatever.  So it is nice to score early.  The other thing I think just teams, in general, are much better although, the -- both teams blew a lead last night, but in teams -- in general were much better at protecting a lead.  The game is based more on defensive type hockey now.  For the most part, again last night wasn't a true indication of that.  But, in general, teams are, throughout hockey, are much better at protecting a lead and playing solid defensively and of eliminating scoring chances.  I think that is probably the biggest reason why getting a lead can be so important. 
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT