NHL ALL-STAR WEEKEND
January 24, 2007
Brendan Shanahan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:  Brendan Shanahan is at the podium.   
  
  Q.  Brendan, actually two questions.  One, can you assess your performance and also were you a little surprised that Sidney didn't even get on the score board?   
 BRENDAN SHANAHAN:  Well, it wasn't for lack of trying, you know, and we kind of teased him a little bit because the one goal that did score he went off the ice and Dany came on.  He didn't get the plus.   
 That's the way these games go sometimes.  And he's a fantastic player, and we certainly had some chances.  So with a little bit of luck Sidney could have been sitting here with four or five assists driving away with the car.  So he's a great player.   
  
  Q.  What about your performance, how is it different from other All-Star games, obviously you didn't score either.   
 BRENDAN SHANAHAN:  I thought the game was actually pretty fast paced.  There's a lot of offense, obviously.  But I thought guys were backchecking and I felt good.  It was fun.  It was great fun for me to be out there and I wouldn't say All-Star games are necessarily the style of game that is my cup of tea, but I certainly enjoy playing in them.   
 And tonight was -- like I said, I thought tonight we had guys backchecking and driving the net and there's obviously going to be a lot of offense just with the skill out there.   
 But guys were playing on the defensive side of the puck as well.  There was a lot of effort out there.   
  
  Q.  Brendan, not that being unselfish is a bad thing by any stretch of the imagination, but was that a bit of a concern coming in, when you look at your linemates and you've got Ovechkin and Crosby and nobody wants to shoot, you just want to pass the puck and move it?   
 BRENDAN SHANAHAN:  That's usually what happens in your first All-Star game.  Most young guys come in here and they overpass.  And certainly it happens in All-Star games and it happens when you go play in Team Canada situation.  And you gotta get comfortable coming down and shooting the puck.   
 Like I said, I think a lot of guys had some nerves tonight.   
  
  Q.  Did the game go as well as you expected it, high-scoring game, expect a lot of goals?   
 BRENDAN SHANAHAN:  Well, you know, usually they are.  Again, like I said, it wasn't a situation where guys weren't backchecking or guys weren't skating, it was -- I thought that for the most part guys were taking 45-, 50-second shifts, and we were rolling the lines pretty good.  It was a pretty good pace out there.   
 The fact there were a lot of goals, it just has to do with the skill level in the game, and you have great goal scorers and play makers on the ice throughout the entire game.   
 MODERATOR:  Brendan, thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT