NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: HURRICANES v RED WINGS
June 13, 2002
Igor Larionov
Brendan Shanahan
Aaron Ward
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  That's the team's first goal in over eight periods.  How are you ever going to manage to score two to win this in the third?
 
AARON WARD: This team seems to find something from somewhere.  Don't count us out yet.  We are going to regroup in there and figure out what to do.   
 

Q.  How difficult now is it to control the anticipation after you had built the 2-goal lead?
 
IGOR LARIONOV: It's 20 minutes, it's a crucial time of the hockey game, crucial time of the season for us to be focused.  You have to be in the Stanley Cup Finals.  We cannot really afford to make any mistakes now.  We have to attack and we have to try for another goal. 
 
Q.  Where are you finding the energy?
 
IGOR LARIONOV: Had a couple of days off and obviously when you're coming back home and everybody expects us to play well, so that's why friends give us that much of a  boost and energy. 
 
Q.  What gives you the most confidence about your team approaching the third period?
 
IGOR LARIONOV: Experience.  Most of the guys have been there before.  Played the last game against the Flyers in the last game, same kind of hockey, it was 2-1.  We have to keep our heads cool, try to play a little bit more simple, try to attack.    
 

Q.  How does the Carolina goal change the complex?
 
BRENDAN SHANAHAN: Obviously it gives them a boost going into the third period, but we have to respond and we know we can.  For the most part of this game, we have had some great pressure.  We just have to get that back.  First five minutes of the third period should dictate a lot. 
 
Q.  How about you said your confidence was a little down.  Now you are getting hot at the right time, goals in consecutive games.  Satisfying for you?
 
BRENDAN SHANAHAN: My confidence -- anytime you are not scoring you are not happy with yourself.  I felt good about my game.  I was getting chances, played long enough, and I know my game to know that it was coming close.  And you just want to make sure that you leave an impact and make an impact.  Frustrating that we didn't get any chances.  We are winning the game, that's all that really matters.   
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT