DAVIS CUP FIRST ROUND: USA v AUSTRIA
February 9, 2008
Julian Knowle
Jurgen Melzer
Gilbert Schaller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:  Questions. 

 Q.  Captain, overall, were you proud of your team's performance?  Do you feel you could have done anything differently? 
 CAPTAIN SCHALLER:  I'm proud of them, the way they played, the way they acted out there.  Of course, I would have seen something maybe more different, some situations maybe they should have acted different on the court. 
 But at that point, you know, you don't know it.  If I would have known, in the third set, the second tie, I would have told him maybe try to be more aggressive now.  But I didn't know at this point, and the players also didn't know it. 
 So they played well.  I think yesterday we saw very good tennis.  Today we saw the double team, which was just aggressive.  It was the best performance I've seen in a very, very long time. 

 Q.  What is it about the Bryan brothers that makes them so difficult to beat? 
 CAPTAIN SCHALLER:  Well, there're permanent pressure first of all.  Of course today they were serving unbelievable:  76% of first serves.  It's very difficult. 
 These two players are known for their returns.  That's their weapon usually, but today they had no chance to put this weapon out of the pocket.  Second of all, I mean, the position they play, they cover the court, they are moving and always there, positive there, stepping in, closing out. 
 They're just perfect.  Even when they're starting to return well, which normally one of their weaknesses is, what can you do? 

 Q.  Julian, what were the main differences between this time playing the Bryans and last time at the US Open?  Was it the surface or a change in partner for you? 
 JULIAN KNOWLE:  Well, I always said that the Bryans, for me, their best surface is clay.  Because if they have a weakness it's the return, especially the backhand return, and on clay they can run around.  And even the backhand cross he didn't miss much today. 
 That was the difference.  And a big, big difference was at the US Open they haven't have that percentage on first serve.  They were struggling a little bit with the first serve there, and then our strength came in, which was the return.  I think we broke twice there and once we broke -- today I think in three sets we have one breakpoint. 

 Q.  For the captain, the United States is lucky to have found four players which have remained constant on their team.  Do you feel you've found that core group of players for your team that will compete for Davis Cups for many years to come? 
 CAPTAIN SCHALLER:  First of all, at the moment, this is my team.  For years to come, they also have an age factor on my team, that's for sure.  Also, the young players that come up again after our experienced players, and young players are always important for a country so they can easily grow into the team.  But there are not major chances.  This team is my team. 
 JURGEN MELZER:  On that question, we already played for six, seven years with three of those on the team.  It's not that we pick new team every time.  It's already like constant. 

 Q.  Are there some names of young players that maybe people outside of Austria or even Europe might not know about but are coming up the pipeline? 
 CAPTAIN SCHALLER:  We have a group of players that are making progress step by step.  Andreas Haider-Maurer and (indiscernible).  They're making their way.  They need some time, but if they continue with their progress we will see. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT