TOSTITOS FIESTA BOWL: STANFORD v OKLAHOMA STATE
December 28, 2011
Brodrick Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Can you compare Stanford's offense to really any offense that you have seen this season, because you have seen so many spread offenses and not really any kind of pro‑style offense? 
BRODRICK BROWN:   I compare them to Texas.   Texas is one of those running teams and play action in there.   Stanford and Texas offense are similar to each other.   We've seen them before.

Q.   Coach Young said there might be some comparison to Kansas State. 
BRODRICK BROWN:   Kansas State is one of those teams too.   It is just smashmouth football.

Q.   You got a great quarterback yourself.   How does playing against him in practice help prepare you for any opponent? 
BRODRICK BROWN:   Well, our quarterback, he can make the same throws that Andrew Luck can. 
It is no different.   We have prepared ourself for it.   We will just go out there and try to do what we can.

Q.   Do you look at this as more of an opportunity than a challenge?   Of course, if you're a defensive player, you want to go up against these offenses that can, I guess, do everything and can hit you a bunch of different ways?
BRODRICK BROWN:   It is another opportunity.   We got another chance to play football.
It is a challenge because it is a new formation and a new scheme and offense that we are not used to.   We are going to take on the challenge and ready for the opportunity to play against the best.   That's what we have been doing in practice and preparing ourselves for it.   We are ready.

Q.   How is maybe just the general perception of Oklahoma State as far as notoriety, all that kind of stuff?   You go back home to Texas, how is it different from when you were being recruited and decided to come here versus now you have had the success you had in the past three, four, five years?   More people are like, yeah, Oklahoma State, we are aware of that place because of the success you have been having?
BRODRICK BROWN:   When you have success, you start getting noticed.   Our coach does a great job of trying to go out there, you know, we have been recruiting very well and stuff like that. 
I say Oklahoma State is on the map, and people are recognizing it.   We have a top college football team.   You get a lot of success.

Q.   That also benefits the entire university as a whole because football is one of those things that people will notice first, I guess. 
BRODRICK BROWN:   Yeah, I guess you could say that.   Football is exploited in Stillwater.   Our coaches do a great job of trying to go out and get the best players.

Q.   Do you like the nickname Bulldog? 
BRODRICK BROWN:   Bulldog, Pitbull, it is not a bad name.   It is a great name.   Feisty animals, but they are nice too.   It is one of those names that will stick with me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT