NBA DRAFT
June 25, 2015
Satnam Singh Bhamara
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  SATNAM SINGH BHAMARA:   I feel good.   I feel excited I am now with a team that I can get a lot better the next couple years.   I think emotionally in India the last couple years ago, I played IMG.   In Florida I played over there.   I am ready the last couple years to play over here in the NBA, and today I have everything, and I go play for my Dallas team.   I play over there, and I make more better for my team during the Summer League.   
I think now in India everyone is so happy about that.   
   
 Q.   One of the things I think the NBA is really focused on has been the overseas content, pushing the game in China, in other countries.   What do you think this means for kids who want to play basketball in India?   How does this show them that it's not just an American game, this is a global game?   
SATNAM SINGH BHAMARA:   I think in India, like the last‑‑ sorry, one more time.  
   
 Q.   How does this help the game of basketball in India for kids who want to play?  
SATNAM SINGH BHAMARA:   I think because in India, a lot of NBA coaches going over there and a lot of NBA players make it better for training.   I think the last couple years I watch every day in India.   I think it's a lot better because in India, no one plays for the NBA and no one is drafted.   That's why when I find out I'm in the NBA, in India there will be more better because there will be more people play basketball and more coaches going to India and make training a lot better.  
   
 Q.   With the chance now to go to Dallas to play with players like Dirk Nowitzki, I can't help but think you're looking for that first chance to play H‑O‑R‑S‑E with him, shoot around with him?   What's it going to be like to play with a player of that caliber?  
SATNAM SINGH BHAMARA:   I do like to play shooting.   I do at my best friend's house.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about watching Sim Bhullar make his debut this season, what that meant to you and whether that inspired you on your journey?  
SATNAM SINGH BHAMARA:   I met him the last couple of months, and I was, again, I think in San Antonio, over there, and he just told me keep playing hard and work hard over there.   
I'm really happy because last couple of days I talk with him, he said, you are first Indian born to go play basketball in NBA.   He gave me a lot of experience in basketball, and he said just play hard and work hard over there.   That's why I followed everyone because I know he's Canadian but he's from India.   And I'm really excited for this because someone played for Canada and project for India, too.   
He came to India for the last month, and there was a lot of people happy about me to him, and he made a lot better in India basketball, too.   He has a lot of fans in India, too, for like a symbol.   
   
 Q.   Do you recall the first NBA game you ever watched on TV?   And is there any player that you pattern your game after?   
SATNAM SINGH BHAMARA:   I watched my first game in India like a couple of years ago, like 10 years ago, and I watched when Miami was against Lakers.   I watched Kobe Bryant, he played really good.   He work on post move, shooting, fake shot.   Then after that LeBron James, he did a good job with that, too.   I looked a lot for Kobe Bryant when I watched the first game.  
   
 Q.   Was there anybody that you base your game on?  
SATNAM SINGH BHAMARA:   I think I'm like Shaquille O'Neal and Dwight Howard and like Yao Ming is amazing, too.   I watch him a lot of games.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT