LAVER CUP
September 20, 2019
Dominic Thiem
Bjorn Borg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Well, Dominic, you have left off the Laver Cup where it started from last year. A couple of match points. Just talk us through that match.  
DOMINIC THIEM: Yeah, I guess Denis and me continued where the Laver Cup last year stopped. It's a really special thing with the match tiebreak in the third. It creates lots of close moments and lots of match points I think on either side. It's also a little bit of luck at the end.   
But it's such great fun and such a great honor to play in front of an amazing atmosphere in front of a great crowd. So thank you. It was great.   
 Q.  For most of the match you were on top. You lose your serve to go into the match tiebreak, and then all of a sudden you're down match points. What's going through your mind at that point?  
DOMINIC THIEM: That's the thing, I was playing very well throughout the whole match, and he played one amazing game to break me in the second set for 5-7, and then the match tiebreak is 50/50.   
All that went through my mind? Play every point and try to pull it through.   
 Q.  What's it like when you've got, on that match point, the last one, Roger is over there talking to you? I don't know whether you heard him, but he was giving you a lot of advice.  
DOMINIC THIEM: Well, I guess there is some tennis knowledge behind my bench. But it's a great honor to be with them and the team to receive hints from them, to receive what you can do better in the match.   
It's just great event and lots of fun. Hopefully we can continue like that.   
 Q.  Congratulations on getting Europe off to a great start. I'm going to wander over here and have a chat with your captain, Björn Borg. Björn, only the first match done, how are your nerves?  
CAPTAIN BJÖRN BORG: To be true, I was very nervous, of course. I knew before the competition it's going to be a great competition, Europe and the World. I can imagine this was only the first match that started like this. We have many more to come.   
Of course, as a captain, you're very nervous. But Dominic played well. He did a great effort to win this match.   
 Q.  When he was under the pressure there down match points, he had the courage to go for his shots and hit the lines. That's great when you have team members that are willing to do that.  
CAPTAIN BJÖRN BORG: I think you have to do that. I mean, you need to do that, because the players are playing so well today. So you need to go for the big shots and you have to do it.   
I mean, we were lucky in this match, though. Like I said, it's going to be many more matches to come. It's always nice to win the first match.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT