LAVER CUP
September 18, 2019
Bjorn Borg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Going into the third Laver Cup, does it get any easier for you?  
CAPTAIN BJÖRN BORG: No, actually getting more and more and difficult. You're feeling more and more pressure every year. I think especially because we have been doing really well the first two years, so we are the defending champion.   
This year we have a very good team, very strong team. It's the same with Team World. They have a good team, too.   
But it's going to come down, as the previous years, to I think it's going to be close matches, great tennis. It's been for the last two years.   
But we're going to try our best to defend that title. It's a lot of prestige. I mean, the players, they don't want to lose . They want to win. You know, you can see both teams cheering for the players on the court.   
So it's going to be fantastic weekend.   
 Q.  Knowing you all these years, nothing changes with your look on court when you're sitting there courtside and how cool you remain, but tell us how much you are churning inside when there is nothing you can really do because you're sitting courtside as the captain?  
CAPTAIN BJÖRN BORG: That's very true. That's why I'm a little bit different to John, for instance. He's more showing the emotion more than I do. I'm very quiet.   
But deep inside, of course I'm nervous. It's normal. But I don't show it. But I'm very nervous, because I care a lot and I want to win. I want the players to win. I want the team to win.   
If you see I don't show anything, but still inside I'm nervous.   
 Q.  And finally, your thoughts on the location, being in Geneva, the Palexpo looks pretty amazing doesn't it?  
CAPTAIN BJÖRN BORG: Yeah, I was there yesterday. You know, I'm happy to be back in Geneva, and to have Laver Cup in Geneva is great, but the stadium, what they did for almost three weeks to build that unbelievable setting, it's fantastic.   
You know, both the teams and the crowds that's going to come to watch are going to have a great time.   
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT