SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 2, 2018
Nikki Fargas
Raigyne Louis
Chloe Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Texas A&M - 75, LSU - 69   
THE MODERATOR: We'll start with an opening statement from coach.   
NIKKI FARGAS: Well we knew it was going to be a battle.  We are very familiar with Texas A&M, as they are with us.  In the regular season they beat us at their place and we beat them at home.  So I thought that the difference in the game for us in this game, I thought we didn't screen as much as we needed to defensively and they took advantage of that.  I thought some of our turnovers led to some transition baskets that we weren't accounting for as well.  But this team still played hard and they fought to the end.   
THE MODERATOR: Take questions for the student-athletes, please.   
 Q.  Chloe, you guys battled them hard.  You actually won the rebounding battle considering their size.  That was pretty impressive.  What do you think was the difference?  
CHLOE JACKSON: We just didn't execute on the defensive end and we just let them get too many open looks and we didn't execute on the offensive end and they went on a run and we didn't really have an answer.   
 Q.  Raigyne, obviously it's not what you wanted in the SEC tournament, but you have more games ahead of you.  But just your feelings right now at being done with the SEC tournament?  
RAIGYNE LOUIS: On to the next.  We got to get ready for the NCAA tournament.  It sucks, but we are on to the next.   
 Q.  Talk about trying to defend Chennedy Carter today.  You guys did great job on her in Baton Rouge but she kind of went off today.  Was it more difficult?  Was it her play, y'all's defense, was it things they were doing differently than down in Baton Rouge?  
RAIGYNE LOUIS: She's a good player and she's going to make good plays and she made good plays and made a lot of free throws.  It was good for her.  Like I said, on to the next.   
THE MODERATOR: All right, we'll excuse the student-athletes and take questions for coach.   
 Q.  What was your explanation on -- was it a double foul and Chloe ended up shooting the two free throws?  Did they call a foul on you as well and then, what was that, what was the explanation you got there?  
NIKKI FARGAS: Well, there was a personal foul on Mitchell.  And then there was unsportsmanlike conduct which at that point you can choose any player to shoot two free throws and then get the ball.   
 Q.  Is it difficult when your teams are as closely matched as you and Texas A&M were, sometimes to face a team that had a game already and is fresh, even though the first half was very close?  
NIKKI FARGAS: I just think in our league it's not easy beating a team twice.  We played them three times and we split.  But I'll say this about Texas A&M, one of the things that was really different for them was Carter.  I thought she did a nice job of not only scoring, but making her teammates life a little easier by her ability to pass the basketball.  We didn't have our best offensive night, but I really thought that we got some good looks, I thought we had opportunities, a lot of missed layups, didn't shoot well from the free-throw line.  And this time of year you got to make those plays and we fell short.   
 Q.  Chennedy is a handful and she a double double but Ayana had a double double, you guys got a lot of second chance at least attempts, some baskets you made, some didn't, but seems like you held your own down low pretty well using a combination of players.  Can you talk about the approach you were trying to use and then how you thought it worked out?  
NIKKI FARGAS: Well Ayana Mitchell has been playing at such a high level for us, she's been a player that we can go to inside, all those she's undersized she's just very athletic, she's someone who gets on the boards for us, she's one of our best defensive players on the floor as far as a post player.  Tonight she had four steals on the night.  She's been an option for us, I don't think everything needs to always be about jump shots, jump shots, I think you have to have a post presence and be able to go inside and establish yourself in the paint and Ayana Mitchell has given us that.   
 Q.  Thoughts about the way she played and you thought she was good enough to neutralize with her and Hillsman in a way?  
NIKKI FARGAS: No, it was, and for us to guard a player like Hillsman I think the main thing that we did that was really good, she got, she had three baskets in the first five minutes of the game and then the rest of the game all those other three quarters and a half she only got three more baskets the entire game.  So I thought defensively that was one of our better low post defensive scouting report defense that we played against her and I think we got to go back and look at tape, take this time, and really get better in some areas, challenge our kids to get better defensively and mentally be tougher than what we showed today and again, you got to make layups and free throws.   
THE MODERATOR: All right.  Thank you very much.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT