ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
July 2, 2019
Jasprit Bumrah
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








India - 314/9 (50), Bangladesh - 286 (48)
Q. Do you think the win looks a lot bigger than it actually is?
JASPRIT BUMRAH: We thought that the wicket will get slower as the inning progresses.  We were just looking forward to that.  So we thought that they'll come hard with the new ball, which they were trying.  So our main focus was to get the ball over as soon as possible so the spinner that we had and our slower balls would come into play.  So that was the plan.
Q. You seemed very angry after your ninth over.  You were kicking the ground and all that.  Why and what exactly was going through?
JASPRIT BUMRAH: No, it's not that.  It's sometimes I'm very hard on myself.  So I was frustrated whichever ball I wanted to bowl, I was not able to execute.  It happens in the spur of the moment, and after that, I was fine.
Q. Obviously, a lot of hard work goes into what you do so well, but you have this ability to show up and bowl those kinds of balls at the end under pressure.  Can you just talk a bit about what goes into that?
JASPRIT BUMRAH: A lot of preparation.  So I always say that.  So whenever I practice in the nets, I practice each and every situation, be it with the new ball, be it with the old ball, bowling at the death.  So if I've ticked all of the boxes in the net, so in the match it's all about execution and keeping a clear head.  So I like to do that.  So all of that preparation helps me in the matches.  If the work ethic is good, I think the execution feels much more easier in the game.
Q. Jasprit, congrats.  How difficult or how easy is it for you guys to bowl at least four to five overs out of the last 10 overs with batsmen attacking you at the death overs.  How important was it for you to play in the IPL, where you bowled four overs of total pressure?  Can you relate that pressure of four overs to here?  How did that help, and how do you train for that?
JASPRIT BUMRAH: I feel a little different.  It's 20 overs.  This is a one-day competition.  Yeah, you like to play games.  So you're playing high pressure games, so that helps as well.  Keeping a clear head, focusing on all of that.  Good practice was there in IPL as well.  We played some tough matches.  We played till the end.  So a good match practice was given to us.  So very happy with that, and the preparation before coming here was good as well.
Q. Jasprit, you've compared this game with England, particularly you started also well on batting and typically it slowed down after 30.  We also thought they would reach 400, today we thought, but we stuck at 300.  Is it like the brand of this wicket?  Considering this as a yes, then how it helps to have the second game on the same wicket?
JASPRIT BUMRAH: See, as I told you, even in the England game, with the new ball it was relatively easier.  The new ball wasn't doing a lot.  So the batsmen were able to score runs.  As the ball got older, the wicket also got slower.  There was a lot of sunlight in the last game, so the wicket would obviously get slower and slower.
So that was the plan for us as well.  We knew that, as the ball will get older, it would get difficult to hit.  And you saw they used a lot of cutters.  Even we learned from that, and we knew that as soon as the ball gets old.  So I think that's the nature of the wickets, and that could be the nature of the wickets going forward.  The summer is coming now, so the wickets could get drier.  So it's good practice for us.
Q. Jasprit, you seem to be making a lot of decisions out there as well, talking to MS, Virat.  Is that just coming on naturally?  Or do you feel like you're the senior guy and people have encouraged you to do that?
JASPRIT BUMRAH: Not like that, but when I'm bowling, I like to make my own decisions.  In that, I am also involved in the game, and I have a clear plan.  If I have the confidence to execute something, so I tell that to the captain or to the senior players that I think this would work and this could work according to my bowling.  So I try to do that.  I always do my preparation.  I always think about what I would want at the end, and seeing the wicket, it changes a little bit as well.
Q. Jasprit, in the last few years, the yorker has been less in fashion than it was before, especially because it could easily be a full thrust.  What is it that gives you the confidence to bowl it in the beginning and the end, whenever?
JASPRIT BUMRAH: As I told you, everything is preparation.  I do it again and again and again in the nets.  So the more you do it, you get decent at it.  You can't master it.  You're still trying to get better at it, yeah.  It's all about repetition.  It's like any other ball.  If you've bowled so many length balls, just like that.  So you have to do it again and again and try to replicate in the game.
Q. Jasprit, can you talk about the challenge of bowling in these kinds of pitches?  Like you said, going forward and the high pressure matches on slow pitches for fast bowlers like you, what do you have to mix?  Is it the variety?  Is it the pace?  The different bowlers like Starc, you, Jofra -- - everybody bowls differently.  What works exactly?
JASPRIT BUMRAH: For me -- I don't know what works for everyone.  For me, I just try to keep things simple.  Analyzing the wicket as soon as possible, reading the wickets.  Sometimes you can run behind wickets, but you don't want to.  Every time I focus on the team goal.  So what does the team want me to do right now?  I try to focus on all of that, keeping things simple, not to run behind the success.  I want to focus on the process.  I try to do that.  I stay in the present and focus on the process, and eventually I tick all the boxes, and everything will be well sorted.
Q. Jasprit, two questions.  One is what is the difference between Jasprit Bumrah who bowled for India in the Champions Trophy final two years ago?  And number two, who has handled your yorkers most successfully?
JASPRIT BUMRAH: I think I'm still the same person, maybe two years older or three years older, I don't remember, but yeah.  I always want to keep learning.  I want to keep evolving.  That has always been my game.  So it made a difference from that time, and maybe I'm playing Test matches right now.  So, yeah, very happy.  The progress has been good.  And still learning.
Q. Who has handled your yorkers most successfully?
JASPRIT BUMRAH: I've not really given a thought.  I just focus on the team goal whenever I'm bowling.  I'm not thinking who's playing me well.  I just focus on how I can contribute to the team.
Q. Jasprit, I just wondered what you made and the team made of the incident where you lost the review, and did that give you extra incentive as a team to go on and win the game?
JASPRIT BUMRAH: I don't think we -- I was at fine leg, so I didn't know what was the case of the review, but, yeah, we made a call, and it was decided.  It's okay.  It was a judgment call.  Sometimes the bowler feels that it was close, so he went with his gut feeling.  Unfortunately on the day, it was not out.
Q. Jasprit, sometimes it is really frustrating when the bowler at the other end is leaking runs and the onus on getting a wicket or stopping the runs falls on you?
JASPRIT BUMRAH: No, not at all because I know how difficult it is to bowl, especially at the end.  So some days I could give runs. Some days some other bowler is giving runs.  So you don't try to blame anyone.  You just try to help each other, take everyone together, try and communicate, make things calm.  Don't put extra pressure on the bowler because he's trying hard.  Obviously, it looks easy, but it is not.  So we try and help each and every one, take everyone together, and give confidence.
Q. Jasprit, now that India have qualified for the semifinals, would you consider taking some much needed rest for the game against Sri Lanka, or still playing -- still helping the group is your top priority?
JASPRIT BUMRAH: This is my first World Cup, so I want to play as many games as possible.  I don't think I've become an experienced player that I could say I don't want to play some games.  Yeah, I always look forward to playing, and the more number of matches you play, you enjoy more.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT