NHL ENTRY DRAFT
July 8, 1995
Daymond Langkow
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
I feel pretty good.  I played three years in Tri-city and the weather is pretty nice there.  So obviously and Florida is quite a bit warmer over the winter, so, I'm looking forward to it. 
 
Yeah, I think it's pretty hard to explain.  It is a feeling like I never felt before just great.  Excitement.  So it is one step in my life. 
 
No.  You know, I'm happy with where I'm going and I think I have a good opportunity to play and that's really all I can ask for. 
 
Yeah. That's my goal.  You  know, I'm going to set that goal to make the team and, you know, get a good program from them, Lightening and work hard this summer and hope for the best. 
 
I don't know.  He coached me for a year and a half so he has a pretty good idea of my style of play.  So, I mean I wouldn't really know; I don't have a very good idea what is it's like.  I've never been to training camp so I'm just going to go there and get a feel for it. 
 
Definitely.  It was great. It was really nice to have my close family here and I have a lot of friends I grew up with here and stuff so it was exciting for them and it was exciting for me. 
 
I think I'm just going to go there and do what they ask.  You know, I'm just going to contribute in whatever every way I can.  And if that means scoring goals, that's great.  If it means being a play marker, that's great to.  So, you know I have a long summer ahead and a lot of hard work. 
 
I didn't really have a feeling coming into the draft of one team more over another so I think, you know, after the first three picks, I thought I might may be four or five and was fifth.  So, I'm just he astatic about it. 
 
I feel pretty good about  that.  I haven't actually been down to Florida yet. I've heard a lot of good things about it, so I'm looking forward to getting down there. 
 
A little bit.  I don't know you know sitting there I kind of I was, you know, just I guess, you know, I just wanted to get drafted but, you know, I didn't really have a very good idea of who was really going to take me. 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT