AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: RED SOX v YANKEES
October 13, 1999
Jimy Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How did you see that play at second base?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: Well, I am not going to -- I don't go out that often. Seems like that
rule if it hits the glove he is out, but in my mind, he didn't have any possession at all
of that ball. You got to have some kind of possession of the ball. 
 
Q. You had many opportunities tonight to break the game open?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: It happens. Tip your cap to their pitching. They had opportunities too.
We made some good plays out there. There were some errors for a couple of guys out there
that made great plays just to catch the ball. So with that in mind, come back tomorrow.
But we have talked about it during the course of the season if you get those base hits
with guys in scoring position, two out helps you win games. Unfortunately, didn't work for
us tonight. 
 
Q. Talk about Nomar's defense, first the good and then the bad.
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: See as far as I am concerned Nomar doesn't play bad defense, period. He
just plays good defense. If you see this kid play you understand what I am talking about.
Of course I am lucky enough to watch him every game. He wants the ball hit to him. He is
an outstanding player, both sides of the line. I will never ever, ever say he is a bad
defensive player. 
 
Q. How about those two great catches he made?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: That just goes with the kind of player the kid is. It is -- he plays to
win, gives you everything he has got. 
 
Q. What about your decision to go with -- what went into your decision process to go
with Beck at that point?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: Well, my time that he has been here with us anyway, I think he has got
lefthanders out pretty good using his split. I am not sure what pitch he threw that one to
Bernie, but I believe in the guy because he has helped us win games from the time that he
joined us actually the very first day. Tried to place it, just didn't work. But I really
believe it was the right decision to bring him in. 
 
Q. Just to go back on the play at second base. Did the umpire simply say it was
possession, that was it, or anything else --
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: Well, I know those guys are out there doing the best they can and rather
than comment on what the man said to me, it really doesn't matter. It was just my opinion
that he didn't have possession of the ball. I think that is the bottom line. 
 
Q. Talk about Offerman's performance today. He seemed to save a run backing up Nixon in
the field.
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: Well, he certainly did going after that ball and I think about the ball
that Valentin knocked down that went up in the air, you know, if it goes through, then I
think Knoblauch -- Jeter would have scored. That is the ball that was thrown to second
errantly, but there was two or three great plays made out there on our side, certainly on
their side too. 
 
Q. Talk about the play at the plate and great throw and bad bounce and how big of an
emotional downfall was that?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: You know, good execution on -- but unfortunately a bad result. But
certainly a great play and certainly Varitek has been outstanding catching them balls. I
couldn't tell what the hop was. You say it took a bad hop. The ball was there though
before the runner, so if he gets a clean hop, hangs on to the ball, the man slides into
the plate, I believe it was Brosius, so you give Brosius a compliment too sliding in there
like that. 
 
Q. Did you get what you expected out of Mercker tonight?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: Well, gutsy performance got us 12 out. Went to the mound, I said get one
more out. I know we had a right-hander warming up there in the bullpen and I believe
Knoblauch was a contact hitter; correct me if I am wrong -- got him out, big out, it was a
3-2 game, but with a couple of great plays behind him certainly held that club down to two
runs for four innings on a couple days rest, so I really thought he did a commendable job. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT