AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: RED SOX v YANKEES
October 12, 1999
Jimy Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Your pitching matchup, if you will, please?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: We are going to starts Kent Mercker tomorrow. 
 
Q. Then after that?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: Mercker then Ramon Martinez, Pedro Martinez, Bret Saberhagen. 
 
Q. How long did you give yourself time to enjoy this?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: How long? 
 
Q. Yes.
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: Well, you savor the moment certainly when you accomplish something like
that. We felt our team did. We know we have a hard task ahead of us here with this
ballclub. We are trying our best to prepare for it. We have a workout today. But it is
like I said before, you play 162 games and it is a marathon. You get into a sprint mode
and things happen very quickly. You just have to keep going and hope you keep flying to
different cities. 
 
Q. Why Mercker?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: Managerial decision. 
 
Q. Any roster changes?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: Yeah, two roster changes. We have added Pat Rapp and Bryce Florie and
taken off John Wasdin and Tim Wakefield. Tough, really tough. But it is our decision. 
 
Q. How much agonizing did you do over something like that and how much thought -- when
did you make the final decision?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: Well, I just got through talking to those players a few moments ago. We
had a meeting this morning. We didn't have a lot of time because we just got here --
talked about it on the plane. Tough decisions, but have to make them. 
 
Q. Why Wakefield?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: Managerial decision. 
 
Q. Can you talk about going from 11 to 12 pitchers, is that just because of --
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: No we are still 11. 
 
Q. How does Pedro feel today after last night's outing?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: I haven't seen him. But I think he feels pretty good. He did a fantastic
job. I haven't seen him to talk to, but I haven't heard anything about him, so I would
think that would be a good sign. 
 
Q. What are your concerns about the state of the pitching staff?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: We will show up. We are going to be here tomorrow. We have a team. It is
like somebody asked me yesterday: Seemed to me you guys pitched this game in reverse, you
started with relievers and finished with your starter. Do our best to win one game. We can
only play one game tomorrow. We are going to do our best to win it. We know we are going
against a tough club. 
 
Q. Talk about the tradition and rivalry between the two teams?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: I haven't been here long enough to really understand it to be honest
with you. But we are a club that is fine in our clubhouse. I think the rivalry -- you
people know a lot more about it than I do. I was in another city, the American League
several years ago. I thought the rivalry between both Boston and New York was pretty good
there too. It just seems like the east, you know, the east they play hard against each
other year in and year out. 
 
Q. How much can the emotion of yesterday carry you through this series? 
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: I don't know. Let's get through it and then ask me the question. But --
I haven't really thought about that. The emotion of this past series, I mean, it is behind
us. So we have to move on. We have to focus our attention on another baseball team and
another game tomorrow. Today we have the day off basically with the workout, so enjoy the
day off. We got to enjoy this day off too. 
 
Q. Do you have to some extent think in terms of momentum and emotion carrying you
through -- at least through fatigue, whatever guys may feel at this point of the season?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: We are not tired. We are not tired. We are going to go play. 
 
Q. Can you talk about Mercker's last start and what you hope to see different this
time?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: Got six outs for us, gave up two runs. We ended up winning that game. We
just felt he was the right one to start this particular game. Maybe it was more like a
side session throwing two innings, have a couple days off and put him right back out
there. Certainly he had that rib cage problem where he hadn't pitched like for 11 days,
then he pitched against Cleveland. So his command maybe wasn't what it liked to have been
in that game, maybe it will hopefully be better, get out in front of hitters better. I
think that would help him a lot. 
 
Q. That scene last night in Cleveland, in all your years in baseball, is that the most
emotional you have ever been?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: It certainly was gratifying, come back from down 2-0, and be able to win
three in a row against Cleveland, I guess maybe the way it happened, you know, you think
about O'Leary basically hadn't really gotten a hit much in any of the other four games and
he drives in seven runs; Daubach had one hit, which was a big hit, three-run homer. He
busted out three hits. We didn't even know if Pedro could pitch; he pitched six innings
and did not give up a hit. Tells you what those kids are made of in that locker room. 
 
Q. How big a factor, if any, was the left-handed element with Mercker against this
lineup?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: Well, left-handed right-handed they are all good, so I don't think that
really came into play. We just felt he was the right man to start. 
 
Q. How about the Pedro/Clemens matchup, Game 3 a lot of people have been expecting this
over the last year and it finally is going to happen?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: Who is pitching for the Yankees tomorrow? El Duque? 
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: El Duque and Mercker, that is what I will talk about today. When we get
there -- I'd rather talk about what is -- these games that are right now. I don't mean to
take away from your question, but I am not that smart to get that far ahead, I am really
not. 
 
Q. Can you describe at all your feeling right now as far as this remarkable ride that
you have had this year?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: I am damn tired right now from the standpoint we didn't get much sleep.
I will tell you that it is a gratifying tiredness that I have. I think I answered a
question yesterday about the M.V.P. maybe in this past series that we just had, I think it
was the whole team, all of them. With that in mind, maybe that exemplifies how I feel
about our season and every kid in that locker room, whether he is on this active roster or
not, and maybe some of them are home, had their day in the sun with this club this summer
to help us win a game or games, and they all had a chance to play. 
 
Q. Do you feel a little bit maybe like a guy at the roulette wheel that keeps on
rolling and just keeps -- 
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: Is gambling legal in this state? (Laughter.) I don't know if I should
answer that. I don't know. We just kind of make it simple, play one game, see what we can
do here. "Boys, go out between the lines, express yourself out there, if you are not
starting, be ready, good work ethic, good practice ethic, practice like you are going to
utilize that skill in a game. Don't try to do too much, you will know your strengths, stay
with them." I don't know if I am answering your question, but I think this club, they
are out there to play baseball, they are baseball players. What the hell is a baseball
player, you know? Does he hit .270 or does he drive in a lot of runs or does he have 20
victories? Not necessarily. But they believe in each other. They really pull for each
other. And back each other. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT