AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX v INDIANS
October 10, 1999
Jimy Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Can you just talk about the decision to put Nomar in the line-up and how you got to
that point? How he's feeling.
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: Originally when I came to the park I didn't have him in the line-up, but
he wasn't here yet, so, because in my mind yesterday he couldn't hit in the tunnel, I
didn't want to put a lot of added pressure on this kid, keep asking, "Can you
play?" Is that monumental to hurt this kid? I don't want to hurt the kid. So with
that in mind, just the trainer taped his wrist and he went out the tunnel and after he got
done hitting, he came back and said he could play. So I changed the line-up. 
 
Q. I was standing in the dugout when he came back from the batting session, he looked
like he threw the bats in the rack, he looked frustrated. Was that just -- was he in pain
then, or is it something that he's...
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: I don't know. I wasn't out there. I don't have one of those periscopes
where I couldn't tell you. I have no idea what you're talking about. All I know is he came
into my office and said he was ready to play. He could play. So I changed the line-up. 
 
Q. Can you talk about the momentum swing, do you feel like you have more momentum today
than you did yesterday after getting a win?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: They put the nine out there, we put nine out there; we go play. 
 
Q. If you win tonight, who's your Game 5 starter?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: Kent Mercker's pitching today. That's all I can talk about. You got
Mercker going, a left-hander, pitching for us; tough game. 
 
Q. Was it just Nomar coming in saying I want to play and you saying yes? Was there more
conversation?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: See Nomar, he's a great competitor. He expects a lot of himself, so with
that in mind, if he feels he can go out and contribute and help this team, then he's going
to come in and tell me he can play, and that's exactly what he did. As far as a lot of
conversation, no, he said he felt good swinging in the tunnel, swinging the bat, hit the
ball good. After he did a soft toss, taped his wrist so he could play. 
 
Q. I have two questions for you. One, did Pedro throw today? Two, if Nomar is having
some trouble either at-bat or in the field throwing, would you pull him out of the game
today?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: I don't know if Pedro has thrown yet today. That I can't answer. As far
as the second question, you know, if there was any doubt in my mind that I'd be hurting
this kid, that he couldn't go out there and compete at this particular moment as we speak,
then I wouldn't put him in there in the first place. So in my mind, I don't anticipate a
problem, but him not having played yesterday, I guess it could happen. But when the game
starts tonight, as far as I know, he can go out and help us. 
 
Q. Can you just talk a little bit about Kent Mercker and how he matches up against the
Cleveland line-up?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: I don't know anybody that matches up against the Cleveland Indians. They
scored 1,000 runs. But, you know, he's a kid that's, you know, he's pitched a lot of
different situations whether it be as a starter, pitch in the middle, close when he was in
Atlanta. I like his mound presence a lot right now, when I've seen him pitch since he was
traded over to our club. He's had playoff experience. He hasn't pitched in eleven days
because of that rib cage situation, the last game he pitched was when we solidified a
playoff spot in Chicago and he had a ground ball back to him and it's on his right side,
he reached up with his glove. And had a little bit of an aggravation from that play, I
believe. So we didn't pitch him. We could have pitched him in Baltimore, but what are you
going to prove? Let it heal. Better off with a healthy pitcher than maybe somebody who has
been that far removed from pitching in a game or pitching situation. He's got a good arm,
you know. I like him. 
 
Q. Aside from the fact you haven't seen him throw, any update from the doctors or
trainers of Pedro himself as to how he feels today?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: See, we need to focus on -- we only got one game here today. We only got
Mercker. You know, we got our backs to the wall. We're in a one-game elimination
situation. That's where we are. We have to win. That's it. That's all I can focus on. I
guess, you know, when I was a little kid, I liked to play marbles. You know, everybody has
different games they like to play, I liked to play marbles. A lot of you people think I've
lost mine, I don't know. I still got them at home in a big old brandy snifter. I really
do. (Laughter.) But I can't go beyond that. Want to, hopefully we will. You know, but we
got to play this game against a tough team. 
 
Q. Any thoughts about the field condition tonight?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: I think it's the same for both sides. That's about it. That's all I can
tell you. At least Fenway is the same for both sides. 
 
Q. Can you walk it?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: Walk it? We're supposed to be able to play on time from what I've been
told, unless that window gets shattered.  
 
Q. Is there anyone in your bullpen who you'd rather not use tonight, Wakefield
specifically?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: You know, all these kids, they all got Major League uniforms on. They've
been here all year, in particular, Timmy, if it wasn't for him, I might not even be here
talking to you people, because of what he's done. Wakefield, in particular, I'm missing
something. This guy's got 15 saves, he's done an awful lot for this team, really. I tip my
head to the kid, really. He's certainly available, just like the rest of the relievers. 
 
Q. Can you just describe your ballclub and how you want people to think of this 1999
Red Sox team?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: Is this finality? 
 
Q. No, no, no.
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: I like our kids. They play hard. What does playing hard mean? They got
-- we got baseball players. I think maybe that's what Nomar exemplifies, what he's doing
today. He's a baseball player. There's a lot of them on this team. They're hard to find,
I'm telling you. Good athletes, what's that word everybody uses? Potential, wow, what a
word. We're looking for baseball players. They don't have to hit .300; they don't have to
win 20 games, you take those guys though. You got a guy like Nomar who is a baseball
player and has the skill, but I think they feed off of each other, this club, in a
positive fashion. They back each other. They enjoy being around each other. The clubhouse,
on the road, you know. But maybe we don't have that great orator in our clubhouse, that
speaker, that spokesperson, but we got a lot that speak when they're on the field with the
bat or their arm or glove, you know. Kind of simple guys, but inside, they're tough. These
kids are tough. They like to play -- like to play. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT