AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX v INDIANS
October 10, 1999
Jimy Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Who's pitching tomorrow?

JIMY WILLIAMS: Saberhagen.

Q. Comment on the pitching of Garces and Cormier?

JIMY WILLIAMS: We pieced it. What did we use, six pitchers? So you get outs, you know,
the game's going the way it is, they have a great offensive club, you don't know what's
going to happen. But certainly Garces pitched very, very strong and the two outs that
Cormier got with the bases loaded, those two switch-hitters were key.

Q. Has there been any improvement in Pedro's condition today?

JIMY WILLIAMS: Upgraded from yesterday, better, but, you know, we can't hurt the kid.
You know, we'll see how he is tomorrow from the standpoint, just don't think it's wise to
start him. I don't even know if he could pitch at all. I'm being very honest with you with
his injury status.

Q. As far as Nomar, how did it go for him today, and no setbacks or anything, he's fine
for tomorrow?

JIMY WILLIAMS: He didn't suffer any setbacks. I think he's okay, you know, for
tomorrow's game. Hopefully... But, took him out, the score the way it was, you know, we
had a pretty good lead there. If we can't hold that lead to win that game, try to protect
that asset a little bit rather than put him on the standpoint of aggravating it.

Q. You've talked about being so proud of your team and how hard they played. The way
they came out tonight and took charge, what could you say about that effort?

JIMY WILLIAMS: Well, we continue to battle, I think we have all year. I mean down
two-nothing, playoffs, best out of five, now we're tied 2-2, so tough battle coming back,
especially against that type of ballclub with the bullets they have, both pitching-wise
and offensively. But we're right back in that hunt now, so it's one game for both of us.

Q. Not just tonight, but last night as well, could you talk about the momentum this
gives you going back to Cleveland?

JIMY WILLIAMS: Well, we savor this victory tonight. It was a nice victory, a key
victory in a playoff game. We did some things really, really well offensively as a unit.
We pieced it pitching-wise, we got outs from just about everybody that came in there.
Certainly we feel good, especially after being behind 2-0. When we were behind 2-0, we
were fine in our clubhouse. How much better are we now? Well, it's a one-gamer now. But
I've said all along, I like our club, I like our kids, they back each other. They pull for
each other. That's a good unit.

Q. Can you talk about what Mercker gave you tonight, and also the amount of pitchers
that you had to use given the score?

JIMY WILLIAMS: Well, he's had eleven days off, you know, I thought his stuff was good.
Come in, maybe not so good, location. But he didn't quit pitching. He kept his head up. He
kept pitching. That's all you can ask. He's been that way his whole career from the time,
and I know him way back with another ballclub. As far as using several pitchers, we had to
win. I mean that was our basic position. We had to win, or, you know, go home. So now we
have another shot against a good club. Hopefully it works out for us.

Q. Just a general comment about, you know, you set Major League records for most runs
and hits in a game tonight. Did you feel the guys after struggling in Cleveland were
getting ready to break out.

JIMY WILLIAMS: We're just happy to get a win. That's why you play. You play to win a
game. That's why you go play. If things happen during the course of a game that happen to
set records, then that's a team thing, too. But our whole priority was to come out here
tonight and give a good effort to try and get a win against a very good pitcher.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT