AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX v INDIANS
October 9, 1999
Jimy Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Latest on Nomar, how did his hitting go?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: He can't start. 
 
Q. Will he be available to pinch hit for you during the game?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: If he can't start, then he can't pinch hit. 
 
Q. Pedro's status, did he throw a little bit ago, and how did he fair?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: You know, I was out there hitting fungos for almost that whole period.
So I really don't know. When I go back in the clubhouse, certainly I'll know. I'm just
being very honest with you. I was just out there hitting ground balls. 
 
Q. Even though you guys are down two games to none, have you -- is the team a little
bit more loose because, you know, they're down and there's nothing really to lose? Or are
they a little bit more pressed? What's the mood?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: I think the same as what we've been all year long. I really don't think
there's any difference in our clubhouse from the start of the season up to this point. 
 
Q. Were you surprised that Nomar didn't respond to some rest yesterday, or has this
caught you by surprise at all?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: Not really. No. Hoping he would be able to be in there, but he went out
in the tunnel and came back with a no, so... 
 
Q. Does it mainly involve his swing?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: Well, it's his wrist, you know. He has pain in there. And he's the kind
of kid that when he goes out to play, he's certainly going to try and help his team win,
contribute the best way he can on both sides of the line. And it gets to the point where
he tells you he probably should not play, then his wrist is bothering him. It really is.
It's bothering him. He can't play. 
 
Q. Would you say his status is day-to-day? If this gets to a Game 4, we might see him?
Or if this is an extended period of time --
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: We got Ramon Martinez pitching today. Our whole focus is this game. This
is basically for us a one-game-playoff type game. Advance to another day, that's where we
are, we're down 2-0. So from the standpoint of talking any more about day-to-day on Nomar,
if we're fortunate enough to see you here tomorrow, I might answer that question. But
today he can't play because he can't swing the bat properly. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT