AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX v INDIANS
October 9, 1999
Jimy Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What's the prognosis on Nomar for Game 4?

JIMY WILLIAMS: We won't know a lot until tomorrow. I mean it's just a basic answer, but
it's the truth.

Q. Could you talk a little bit about the team coming out with so much adversity, all
the pregame about Nomar and people wondering about Pedro. The guys came out and got the
job done today.

JIMY WILLIAMS: Earlier in the year, we've been through some situations, too, some
challenges, some injuries, disablements. And there have been other players gone out there
and performed and done well. And we've won games. I think maybe throughout the course of
our regular season we played a lot of people. We played our whole team with the idea that
if you're here, then you're a Major League player, then you're going to play. That's the
way I look at it. So with that in mind, we've won with a lot of different line-ups. I
think if you talk to maybe the press that travels with us here, they might give you a
better understanding of how many different line-ups. One guy said to me, you've used so
many, I've lost count. I don't even count anymore. So with that in mind, it's not unusual
for us to maybe have a different line-up out there at times. I know and understand this is
the playoffs. I know and understand who you're speaking about. But we just keep playing.

Q. Can you talk about your mindset in the seventh after the Valentin error, it's the
third error in the series -- third defensive mistake that really gave the Indians a break.
What were you thinking at that point?

JIMY WILLIAMS: That our pitcher was going to get the next hitter out.

Q. Can you assess Ramon's performance this afternoon and how much of a spark it was
going nearly six innings?

JIMY WILLIAMS: A strong performance, but a continuation of the way he's pitched in his
last two or three starts on the upclimb or whatever the word might be going upward,
pitched good, big game. I mean we know we have to win. We have the same situation
tomorrow. You know, but we get to come out here and play again. You get to come out here
and ask me questions again, that's okay. That's all right with me. (Laughter.)

Q. Just wondering about your thinking in pinch hitting Daubach for Huskey and just
baseball being a crazy game? Daubach gets a colossal home run against the pitcher? 

JIMY WILLIAMS: Managerial decision.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT