AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX v INDIANS
October 8, 1999
Jimy Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Can you just talk a little bit about Nomar and his condition?

JIMY WILLIAMS: Wouldn't have proven anything for him to work out today, because he --
his wrist bothers him. But it's been bothering him, too. So we just gave him the day off
from the standpoint of hitting, taking grounders, get his treatment inside, and look
forward to him having the opportunity to play tomorrow.

Q. Has it been frustrating, you've won the season series head-to-head with the Indians
two years in a row. Post-season now, down two games?

JIMY WILLIAMS: Well, we're still playing. You play the regular season, then you start
into what I call maybe a sprint mode, where you get into these playoffs. But I don't
believe it's frustrating. We're here, we'll play these games, you know, we know where we
are. We're basically down to -- tomorrow's game is like a one-game playoff for us. You
know? That's where we are.

Q. Did Nomar ask you to have the day off? Whose decision was it to not have him work
out today?

JIMY WILLIAMS: I was looking for Nomar, because I got here early. I was looking for him
when he arrived. I was going to talk with him and basically tell him my opinion, you know,
what are you going to prove to go out there and work out. It's not really going to do
anything for you, from this standpoint because your wrist bothers you, but you've been
able to play with it. So why don't you just stay in here, get your treatment, take it
easy, take a day off from swinging, from throwing -- because realistically, if it wasn't
for you folks, we wouldn't be here today. We had to be here. That's okay. So we decided to
have a little workout. But we, you know, Nomar's not working out.

Q. Is his wrist worse than it was before the series started, say on Monday or Tuesday?
Was there any, you know, added problem by playing the last couple of days?

JIMY WILLIAMS: Well, you know, I don't know the pain. I mean he's the only one that
really knows and feels what he feels. But I just took a precautionary approach from the
standpoint that when he came in today, to tell him I didn't think it was necessary for him
to go out on that field today.

Q. Could you just update us if the doctors have talked to Pedro and seen Pedro and what
Pedro's condition is?

JIMY WILLIAMS: Well, I think he feels better today, possibly -- probably play catch
tomorrow. I think he has full range of motion with his arm, with less pain than what he's
had. 

Q. Do you have any doubts that Nomar will be able to play tomorrow? Knowing the
competitor he is, knowing his condition, do you have any doubt that he'll play tomorrow?

JIMY WILLIAMS: Well, until I hear anything different, I mean that's my whole mental
approach as far as making up our line-up. I'm sure that's the way he feels, too.

Q. How much confidence do you and the team have in Ramon taking the mound in such an
important game tomorrow?

JIMY WILLIAMS: Every game we played this season was important in my mind, and this game
is no different even though we understand the magnitude that this is the playoffs, he has
pitched in the playoffs before. He has pitched well in his last couple starts. The big
thing for me in watching him pitch, just foundation. To me, foundation of every athlete's
your legs. To me, his legs, he really carried his legs well underneath him when he pitched
especially those last two games. I don't really believe he was tired when he came out
because of the conditioning that this man has gone through all year basically to try and
come back to this level and be a successful pitcher, which I think he has done and shown.
So to me, I look forward to watching him pitch.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT