AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX v INDIANS
October 7, 1999
Jimy Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Would you give the overnight assessment of Pedro's condition? 

A. Well, certainly he's still sore. So it's just going to take a little time. It hasn't
been that long since we played that game. So I think we just have to wait and see how he
feels in the next day or two. When can he throw on the side, if he can, I'm not sure. At
that point we'll figure something out then. 

Q. It's definitely the mid-back area? 

A. Right. It's more like a muscle pull, you know. It's not his shoulder. 

Q. Any change in your lineup today? 
A. Yes. There's two changes. Huskey is DHing and Buford is playing center field. 

Q. Has anybody looked into the possibility that the muscle strain could be a sign of
something more serious, a ligament? A doctor in one of the papers today was talking about
it. 

A. I'm not a doctor. No, I don't know. We just have to wait and see, you know, how he
feels in the next day or two. And then go with his evaluation of himself and certainly he
would have to throw on the side and show himself that he's healthy enough to compete again
without causing further injury or not being up to the capabilities that he feels he should
be. 

Q. Would you rule out his starting on Sunday if you have a game on Sunday? 

A. Well, let's get through today, then tomorrow, and see how he feels. You know, we
have this game today with Saberhagen pitching. Basically that is where my focus is right
now. I understand your question. I think maybe when we get to the point where we have to
make that decision, we'll certainly make it the best that we can with his input and the
doctor's input and see where we are. 

Q. Would you talk about some of the considerations that brought you to the point where
you made the lineup changes today? 

A. Managerial decision. 

Q. How has Pedro's injury affected the morale of the team? 

A. We have Saberhagen going today. We feel good in our clubhouse. I think that's the
main thing, that's the strongest thing, is to feel good in our clubhouse, how we feel in
there and go out and compete against a tough Indians ball club. You don't like to see one
of your starters, premier starters go down, but that is why you have a team, you have
other good pitchers. They have won games. So our bullpen is rested out there. I think we
have some good people in the bullpen. It would be tough for Bret to go nine. He hasn't
been a nine inning pitcher because of what he has gone through but he is a pitcher that
has very good control and command. So in most cases, a low number of pitches unless there
is a lot of foul balls. But the feeling in our clubhouse is fine. 

Q. Jimy, would you talk a little bit about how you guys constantly deal with the
hammering you get about this "curse" that the media claims is hanging over
Boston? 

A. We have great fans in Boston. I'm not exactly sure what Fenway holds but I mean the
last two or three months, that park was filled every day. My relationship with writers,
you know, the television people, especially the writers that are with us all the time, I
think is good. At least I feel that way towards them. And we're a baseball team that to me
is fine within the confines of our clubhouse. We'll compete from the standpoint of trying
to win that one game, we try to make it pretty simple. I've tried to learn how to say
1918. I don't think I did it right. So they put me in 1916 at the hotel. We just keep
playing. We're a team. We just keep playing. You know, it's people expressing their
opinion, I think it is because they really care about our team. But these kids are going
to give us what they can out there. 

Q. Would you just talk about the character of your ball club as you head into Game 2
today to be battling it all year? 

A. I know we only try to take care of ourselves the best we can. I like our team. I
like what they bring to the park every day. There are other clubs that have gone through
adversity and they bounce back, too. The club we are playing, we used a lot of players
this year. I don't expect anyone to feel sorry for us. But that's okay. But they're a
pretty resilient group that has the capabilities and qualities of mental strength and
physical skill to bounce back from things, you know. Can we this time? Well, we'll see.
We'll go play. Character or characters, but a pretty good group. I really speak with a lot
of pride for all those kids, what they brought, what they've done and what we're trying to
attain and where we want to go. That's what we're trying to do. 

Q. The question is about Derek Lowe and when he may be available again.

A. You get to this point in the season, you know, I certainly don't want to hurt the
kid. He threw around 60 pitches. He has a good delivery, doesn't really tax himself, he
doesn't really overexert, you know. He has a fairly fluent delivery so it takes a lot of
pressure off his arm when he uses his legs like he does to cushion his arm. He can't pitch
today. Certainly we have a day off tomorrow. Knowing Derek, he would want to take the ball
today but we'll see what happens when we get to the first game back home. I thought he
pitched outstanding last night and he gave us a chance to win. Unfortunately it didn't
work out for our part but he certainly kept us in the game. A couple of days, then we'll
talk to him. I talked to him earlier this morning and he said I feel fine, whatever the
hell that means. I feel good, too, I can pitch.            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT