AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: RED SOX v YANKEES
October 18, 1999
Jimy Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JIMY WILLIAMS: I apologize to you folks, I just couldn't make it last night.

Q. Why, Jimy, were you that frustrated?

JIMY WILLIAMS: No, I just spoke my peace about the umpires in New York. I just didn't
think I needed to keep addressing the situation. But it's out there. I just -- I didn't
know what I could really say.

Q. Did you think you might say something, you know, more than you really wanted to?

JIMY WILLIAMS: I apologized to Phyllis for not coming up here. I should have been up
here. Sometimes when you see something, you want to react right away. And sometimes maybe
it's better to sleep on it. I knew I shouldn't have, from the standpoint of you folks
being up here, but I really didn't know what I could tell you, just keep talking about the
umpires. We're here to talk about the players. We're here to talk about these two teams.
That's the most important thing. The players decide the games; that's why everybody comes
to watch. Don't come to watch me. They don't come to watch the umpires. They come to watch
the players, because the players play. That's what it's all about.

Q. You said after the Game 1 controversy that you really didn't advocate replay. Have
your thoughts changed at all?

JIMY WILLIAMS: I don't know. I don't have an answer for you. I like the human element
in there, but the thing that I believe, I stressed before, and I'm being redundant here in
going back. They're a team just like we are. We work as a team. I still think they need to
work as a team. I'm saying it again. Shouldn't have to. Everybody makes mistakes. I
probably made more than anybody in here. But I try and utilize our coaches the best I can
to help us in a game situation and whether it be preparation or during the course of the
game. So to me, that's trying to be a team to win a game as a unit. To me, as umpires,
you're trying to officiate a game properly as a unit so it's fair for both sides.

Q. George Steinbrenner went on the air last night on national TV and said that you
incited the fans. Do you think you incited the fans, and what do you think of his
comments?

JIMY WILLIAMS: When Georgie Porgie speaks, I don't listen. I didn't incite the fans.
The situation incited the fans. I didn't incite them. I'm a manager of a Major League
team. There are some plays that happen out there where I believe every manager would go
out and argue, maybe more than I did, depending on who the individual is. To stand up for
your team, you know, I think that's your responsibility. I mean I just reacted. I was just
-- I don't like to go out on that field or argue with umpires; I really don't. I don't
like to go out there. But there are times when you need to go out there, and I was just
sick and tired of having to keep coming out here on these plays. I guess I blew my stack a
little -- not blew my stack, but reacted. Incite the fans, no. That was -- that never even
entered my mind. We have great fans here. They've supported us very, very well throughout
this season, and I think when we were down 2-0 to Cleveland, you would think we were up
2-0, the way they came out and supported us in those two games we had here at home. We
have tremendous fans. But what they did last night is not the right thing to have happen
in a ballpark. I have the utmost respect for the New York Yankees. I know some of those
kids over there, certainly I know Joe Torre and those coaches. I don't want any players,
coaches or anybody to get hurt. I really don't, either side. When you go to other
stadiums, hopefully you get the same type of security that our organization put out their
last night to prevent fans coming on the field. I know there were things thrown, even
though I wasn't on the field itself; I was already in the runway. I was out of the game.
They try to do it in the proper fashion. You don't like to see it; I've seen it before. I
think if you play the game long enough, you're going to get into situations during the
course of a season somewhere where something like that's going to happen, if not worse.
Whether it be during an organized situation in United States or winter ball or whatever.
We all have. We all come from different backgrounds. Where we've grown up, we've seen
things too, maybe yourselves included. It's not a perfect world out there. We don't like
to see it happen. I believe in our fans too much, and certainly -- hopefully, it will not
happen here tonight.

Q. Did you ask him to get help on that play?

JIMY WILLIAMS: Yes, I did. I mean I asked him, you know, first thing I asked him was,
"Why is he out?" He said he tagged him. I spread my hands like that, which
you've probably seen. I said he missed him by that much. Can you ask somebody, can you get
some help, somebody can help you if they saw from a different angle. I said Timmy, I know
he didn't touch him. I know he didn't touch him. I know he didn't. I asked him. Did he
ask, I don't know. But then I went like this, palms up, you got to ask somebody around
here for help just to make sure you get the call right, because that's all I've ever been
told by other umpires in situations where they've changed the decisions against the club
that I was managing, we're just trying to get the play right. We've got to get the play
right. It happened again last night. I talked about that in New York, too. Same thing. Got
to get it right. Team umpires, to leave somebody else out there to hang out to dry again.

Q. Following up the last question, when you asked him for help, what was the response?

JIMY WILLIAMS: I can't remember what his response was. I know Dave Jauss was right
there with me. I know he heard me ask him to ask for help; you ought to make sure we got
the play right. I knew he missed it because of the angle of where we were. I went like
this, I went around these guys, "Somebody help him." That's what I meant.
Somebody help him. We've got to help this kid.

Q. Earlier in that inning on Knoblauch's throw, Girardi backed it up. How big of a play
do you think it was? I couldn't see it, was it a routine play when he backed it up?

JIMY WILLIAMS: See the ball hit the wall, didn't come in the dugout. The angle of the
throw went past Tino Martinez, but it hit the wall where it was still in play. It didn't
go in that television well and it didn't come into our dugout. Basically, he caught it off
the wall. If that's the same play.

Q. So if anything it was a lucky break. It just hit where it was thrown, hit the wall?

JIMY WILLIAMS: Well, I guess we'll have to have them move that concrete or something, I
don't know.

Q. After Pedro's start he said he would be available the next day to get an out if
necessary. If it's a close game today would you attempt to go to him for an inning of
relief?

JIMY WILLIAMS: See, we're down 3-1. We have to win. You know, I mean am I going to come
up here, am I going to see you folks one more time, three more times or five more times?
We have to go play this game. But we have to win. We know, we understand that. Certainly
Saberhagen cannot pitch. Ramon, cannot pitch. If, in fact, we get to a point in that game
and we feel that it's right to ask Pedro to pitch, you know, then certainly we'll ask him,
or maybe he'll come to us. But we need a good performance out of Mercker, and possibly
some others prior to then. Because we know El Duque's tough.

Q. I just want to get back to the umpire situation for one second. What do you relate
the lack of efficiency to? The recent disturbance in the umpire's union?

JIMY WILLIAMS: I haven't even thought about that. That never even entered my mind.
Could he have been in a better position? You know, could he have been in a better position
to make the call? Because that call happens a lot during the season, the ball to the right
side with the runner. And they either tag him and then throw to first, run him back to
first and throw to first and out at second, a lot of different scenarios. But maybe
somebody else, like I said before, got to step up. Where's the first base umpire? What was
his angle like? To me, he probably would be the only other one; I don't know. Because I
don't know exactly what they're looking at. Are they looking down at the ground? I don't
know. But I never thought about that other part of that question. Never entered my mind.

Q. Do you have any theories about why umpires are often reluctant to consult with other
umpires about a play?

JIMY WILLIAMS: I don't have a theory, but I think people better take a look at it, like
they do in those other professional sports. They better take a good look at it, and not
always have to ask these guys to ask somebody else. They better step up. Because they're
accountable for their actions out there as a group, just like we are, so they better start
helping each other.

Q. Are you a believer in the breaks evening out over the long run?

JIMY WILLIAMS: Well, you create your own breaks. We made a couple of mistakes last
night, they capitalized. I don't know about breaks. Talking about luck, you know, that can
be real smart and say luck is a residue of preparation. Basically that's what it is. You
put yourself into a position where if you happen to catch a break, it's because of
everything else that happened before that that you did right. You know, so I don't know
about breaks, the sport is what it is. Bad hops, you know, a lot of things happen, come
into play, but certainly the focus should be on these kids playing the game, the players.
The players decide the game. The pitchers, the hitters, everything. Let them decide the
game. Not anybody else.

Q. Jeff Nelson said that you guys would be better off losing tonight because he
couldn't predict how Yankee Stadium fans would react to the way the Boston fans reacted.
Do you have any reaction to that?

JIMY WILLIAMS: I'd just go back to talk to Jeff Nelson again for his reaction.

Q. This is the second series in a row where you had a do-or-die game. Is the attitude
the same as when you were down 2-0 to Cleveland. Do you sense the attitude is the same?

JIMY WILLIAMS: Our attitude is very good. We feel we can win. That's why we play. We go
play to win. We understand how they're going to play, too. But we feel good about
ourselves in our clubhouse, our kids. Same way they were all year long, out there today.
You know, to me, same good work ethic, everything.

Q. Do you think you should have some extra understanding about the umpires making one
or two errors on a night your team made four errors?

JIMY WILLIAMS: Certainly the physical errors by players are made by the same guys that
have made great plays all year long to help get us here. Now, sometimes there's a lot of
room around that ball; things happen. But it's not from lack of effort. It's not from lack
of preparation. I'm not pointing at any particular umpire, as far as mistakes, but, you
know, we accept our wins and our losses as a team together, in our clubhouse. I can't
speak for them. I can only speak for us on how we are. You know, how we play. But I mean
the Yankees capitalize. They took advantage and scored runs.

Q. Has the team lost any of its focus due to the events with the umpires and the field
last night? How does the team respond to that?

JIMY WILLIAMS: I really don't believe so, not at all. That to me was the way we
practiced, just me watching how they did things out there. They did them right. Whether it
was taking ground balls, or turning double plays or throwing the ball across that field or
swinging a bat in BP or trying to bunt the ball, bunting the ball. I didn't see any
difference from any other time during the year. So we're focused. We're ready to go play.
But let the players decide it.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT