AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX v INDIANS
October 7, 1999
Jimy Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. One of the hallmarks of your team this year has been your team hasn't beaten themselves. In the two games here that hasn't proven true.   
 A. Certainly the playoffs are always magnified. I understand that. And, you know, that hurts, to be honest. But we got to go forward, too. We know where we are.  
 Q. What will you do for your pitching in the days to come since you used up so much of it here? 
 A. We have an off day tomorrow and they really weren't pushed, maybe Lowe last night, but he will have two days off. So from that standpoint, the relievers, they'll be fine. We need a good start out of Ramon. We have to win Saturday, you know. We know that.  
 Q. Would you talk about Bret Saberhagen. This was an uncharacteristic outing for him. 
 A. I guess he is human. You know, he's not perfect, but he was throwing the ball good. Stuff-wise he was good. You know, if his velocity means something, and it certainly does, but his arm is free. They put some good at-bats at him, and consequently some of them earned their walks, if you might. They are good hitters over there. They take their walks, a lot of them. But things happen sometimes, you know. Like I said before, they are always magnified I think in post-season but that's what post-season is for, too.  
 Q. Any way for you to explain why the last two seasons you guys have dominated the Indians in the regular season, but they've turned it around in post-season on you? 
 A. We're not done yet. It's not over yet. But last year they beat us and certainly they are up two nothing in the best out of five series right now. How do you explain, why do all these people come out and say -- why are all you here, because you don't know what's going to happen in games and after the regular season it is basically a new season. Basically a split with the best out of five. And a play or walk or pitch or hit can certainly turn a game very quickly. It's just like going through a city, all the stoplights and all of a sudden you get on the Autobahn, there is no speed limit. That is the way this game goes. It's unpredictable. I don't have anything definitive for you, just a point or two, you know, maybe Sean touched on it in his first question a little bit there for these first two games.  
 Q. Being down two, is there anything you are going to do with your lineup the next game? 
 A. I don't know. Maybe I'll get a hold of George Herman. I don't know. What do you want me to do? What we do here, boys and girls, we're going to go with the same group that brung us. They are a good group. They can hit and they can play, they can pitch. So we have to put a very good game on the field on Saturday. Win that game, things can be a little bit different. We know we have to win, though.  
 Q. What did you tell your team in the clubhouse after the game?
 A. This isn't a football team. They don't have meetings. We have a day off tomorrow and work out and then we play on Saturday. We'll be ready to play, though.            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT