AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX v INDIANS
October 6, 1999
Jimy Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Would you talk about the situation with Jefferson?

A. Well, for those of you that were here yesterday, I think you recall the statements I
made about our starting pitchers, with Saberhagen and Ramon coming off the DL and rehab
and joining us late, Mercker with his rib cage area. I feel it's very important to protect
your pitchers, certainly your starting pitchers, so we decided to go with 11 pitchers and
then if you look at the left side of the infield and you think about Nomar's wrist and
think about Valentin's knee, played seven games in the last month, then you have to
protect those particular spots, too, the best you can. That's the way we listed our
priorities. And the one statement I made yesterday was that you can't protect everything,
but we protect those things that we think are at the top of our list the best we can and
go out and play. That's basically what happened. 

Q. I think the question is did you feel that there was a segment of the media that was
unfair last year in believing that you should have pitched Pedro in game four?

A. I wasn't trying to be right, I was just trying to do right, you know. That's all. To
me, that's the bottom line. That's all we try and do here. 

Q. Do you expect Reggie to be back with the team?

A. Well, I don't know. Go with the players that we have. That's what we've done all
year long. We've had injuries all year long, we've had disablements all year long. I think
we used around 50 players, I believe, during the course of this season and people have
picked up other people when we've had injuries or disablements. I think you'd probably
have to be with us to have seen that; but certainly there are writers here who have
traveled with us who have seen that and seen a lot of different players perform that maybe
haven't been here all year and maybe aren't here now to help us win games. 

Q. Can you talk about the surprise of how Brian Daubach has played for you this year?

A. Well, certainly as a youngster in his first year, he's had a tremendous year. I
mean, he was a key factor during a long part of the season with his offense. Originally he
came to spring training, they told me he was an outfielder and would probably start at
Pawtucket. If we needed somebody, that's what I was told. Within the first couple days
there, I saw him taking ground balls at first and he's worked extremely hard to refine his
skills over there and I think he's done a real nice job, with his improvement over there,
with his work ethic. He's always ready to play but certainly as a youngster to come in and
perform in some key spots in key games, to be able to deliver offensively and drive in
runs, I think it's just a tremendous story about a kid that just kept playing. 

Q. How is Saberhagen pitching in light of his injuries?

A. His last full start, he pitched very, very well. The last couple. He pitched a
couple innings the other day in Baltimore. I don't think that's really a fair barometer to
judge but the ones prior to today, I thought he pitched extremely well and really gave us
some very, very good innings against tough-hitting teams. 

Q. Many pitchers would have retired after going through what Bret Saberhagen went
through physically the last few years. What do you see as a part of his makeup that makes
him persevere?

A. I mean, this is a man that really loves to compete. I don't think any of us really
know what he's been through because we haven't; but just to be able to keep coming back
wanting to pitch. I mean, he went through a 25-day period during the course of this season
where we didn't pitch him and he basically walked off the mound, not walked off but
finished that one inning. Prior to the time of the 25-day layoff. I mean, this kid
couldn't lift his arm. He couldn't lift it and he had to really work hard with the
trainers who to me are unsung heroes on our team and do his weight program to try to
activate or fire those small muscles around that area to cushion his shoulder so he could
in fact pitch; but he's quite an individual, person first but you know he loves to
compete. I mean, he's been doing this for a long time at this level, certainly isn't a
youngster so I don't think it really is a surprise that he can handle it mentally. You
just wonder how much he can handle physically. That's it. But he sure handled it so far. 

Q. The way things happened with Reggie and leaving the team, do you think that can have
any negative trickle down effect into the clubhouse? 

A. We keep everything in our clubhouse. Everything stays in there period. 

Q. Would you talk about how big it was for your ball club to pick up Beck and Mercker?

A. I'll say Beck, Mercker, Huskey and Florie. They've been pluses for our team since
they've been here, you know, Beck and Mercker, certainly pitchers but I think Beck has
done a great job, too. He's a good kid, he works hard but all of them have contributed,
but to me it's a complement to the job our general manager has done to go out and get
these guys to help our team win starting with Bret.            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT