AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX v INDIANS
October 5, 1999
Jimy Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Would you talk about how much of a rivalry there is between you and the Indians
between what happened in post-season play the past few years, what happened between Jaret
Wright and Manny this year? 

A. I think it is behind us. This is a whole new series. Two playoff teams going at each
other. I have a lot of respect for their club. They have an outstanding ball club over
there. I like our team a lot. But as far as those things, I don't think they even come in
to play.

Q. A lot of people are going under the assumption that Pedro is going to come in here
and get two wins. Are you working under that assumption too?

A. They have a guy over there by the name of Colon. He has a good team. If everybody
knew what was going to happen, why are we all here? That's why you play the games. There's
a lot of interest, you know, two good pitchers going at each other, two good teams going
at each other. I could give you that thing about assume, you know, about you and me. But
that don't make any sense. We got to play the games. That's why we came here. We look
forward to coming to Cleveland because that's a good sign for our club that we attained a
level. We're here because our club earned something to come here and play against this
team. They're Central Division Champions and they have an outstanding club. I like our
club a lot, too. 

Q. Is this season making the playoffs a little more special to you in that you didn't
have Vaughn in the lineup?

A. Every season is special to me just to have the opportunity to wear a major league
uniform. Fortunately I'm a Red Sox. I feel good about that. So as far as anything else
that happened, you know, came out of spring training, you know, the club focused from the
standpoint of trying to do things right, win games at the outset, we used a lot of people,
I'm not trying to replace anybody. Take the roster that the general manager signs, put
those kids out there, let's see how many games we can win. We play 162. We got that
marathon. Let's go play it, boys. Let's go play and see how many games we can win. That's
all we want is games and we're here. But as far as anybody else that's not here or wasn't
even here, we focus on what we have and I think we're good in our clubhouse. 

Q. Have you ever seen a pitcher, any pitcher throw with the precision that Pedro
Martinez does?

A. I'll tell you, he's having some kind of special year. To be that deft, that ability
to command with velocity, change-up, curveball. I was with the Cardinals when Gibson was
there. He played, certainly I didn't. You guys don't even know I was there. I had a
uniform there, too. So I had a chance to watch him pitch. I'm not going to really compare
him to anybody, Pedro, but I mean Gibson threw hard, too. But I really don't like to
compare pitchers or players. Like I told the writers in Boston, you realize what you're
seeing here with this kid, what he's doing this year with that ball? Especially when the
ERA in the American League is what it is. Especially when throughout all of baseball to
have 20 home runs today is nothing. I mean a lot of people have 20, 30, 40, 60 and yet he
has that ability to take that baseball and stop some awfully good teams. 

Q. It sounds like Pedro is better this year than he has ever been before. Can you talk
about what you think he has improved? 

A. With all he's done -- he's been on the disabled list, too, for two weeks. But after
that two-week period, the one thing that stuck in my mind sitting in that dugout watching
this kid perform was his breaking ball. His hook, his curveball. I know it's always been
good but just to me, he has been throughout the regular season so much more consistent
than I had seen it before. He has an outstanding change-up. We certainly know what his
fastball is. Great control. But he has command. Command is different than control for me,
the two words. Control is the ability to put it on the plate. Command is the ability to
put it on a special part of the plate. Up, down, in, out. But I think probably his
curveball if I was to think about one particular thing. I mean, he's got a nasty ball. 

Q. Jimy, Pedro had a special year but would you talk about Nomar winning the batting
title? 

A. He is an integral part of our defensive scheme and offensive scheme but he's had
some bumps, you know. But from the standpoint of injuries here and there, to do what he
does day in and day out, it's a pleasure, I'm honored to have the opportunity to watch
this kid play, too. He's a baseball player. He's a throwback. I don't know. He's an
awfully lot of fun to watch play. Certainly we're fortunate to have him in a Red Sox
uniform. But his numbers speak for themselves. He's an outstanding hitter with power. He
runs very well but he takes an awful lot of pride in his work, too. And he works hard at
it every day. 

Q. You talked about watching Bob Gibson pitch and about Martinez pitching in a hitters'
era. Would you talk about what it might have been like for Pedro pitching in bigger
ballparks, bigger strike zones? 

A. You said what if. Any question for me with an if or what if, I can't answer it. I
don't have an answer for you. 

Q. What role do you envision for Tom Gordon? 

A. How do you know he's on our roster? 

Q. I talked to him in the locker room.

A. All right. He is on our roster. I didn't think he'd make it back. I mean this kid is
back, he threw good on that road trip those last few games and not necessarily as a closer
but he has that mentality. We'll use him in any part of the game that we think is the
right spot to use him to help us win that game. I don't think it would be smart to bring
him in in the middle of an inning. I'm not saying it won't happen because I don't know how
much time you have to warm up because of what he's been through. But he has thrown the
ball very well, especially the last couple of times out. 

Q. Would you give us an update on Nomar and his wrist and is he 100 percent going into
the series? 

A. He took batting practice today and he stayed out there for the complete round. I was
out in the outfield watching him hit. He hit the ball good. He went through his infield
drills good. Is he 100 percent? Anybody in here 100 percent? I don't think there's any
player on either side. There is one back there. I don't think there is any player on
either side that is 100 percent. I mean, he has a glitch. He got hurt. So medically, our
organization tried to take care of him the best way we could. Today is his first workout
day since he played the game that locked up the wildcard situation for our team. But even
at that, in that game if he was hurt, he had a two run homer and he hit a ball off the
wall in Chicago. But with five days off, hopefully it will improve, and whatever
medication they've given this young man will help him. He's going to play. But is he 100
percent? No. But I don't think anybody in either dugout is 100 percent. You just keep
playing, just play. 

Q. It is a hitters' era, but the Indians are the first team since 1950 to score 1,000
runs. Can you talk about what particular problems that represents? 

A. Which hitter do you want to start with? Then we'll just continue. I mean, they have
them all the way up and down their lineup. 

Q. You touched on Tom Gordon but would you talk about the roles of the bullpen right
now? 

A. Well, we have three guys out there that are double figures in saves. Plus we traded
for Rod Beck. So with that type of closer mentality, I think it means something. We can
use them, all of them in different ways and that's not even talking about Garces who we
left in the game the other day against Baltimore to close the game out. So we must believe
in him, too. And Cormier and Wasdin, he has a couple of saves. We have a different kind of
bullpen, maybe different kind of team, you know. We use these guys a lot of different
ways. Sadler second, short, third, played left, center, right. We try and use the skills
of these people the best way that we know to help us win a game. We expose them to those
positions in most cases in spring training. I don't know if I've answered your question
the way you wanted it to be answered, but I like our relief corps out there and they're
certainly going to be important in this series. 

Q. Last year the bottom of the order really struggled a little bit in this series.
Could you talk about how important it is for the bottom of the order? 

A. You know, I don't even remember that. This is a new year. This is a different team.
I don't even think, I don't know how to really answer the bottom of the order question. It
doesn't mean a whole lot to me from the standpoint of guys that didn't do something. Are
those guys all here? What the hell was our line up? I don't know. We're going to try like
hell though, seven through nine, they're going to try like hell out there. I know that.
We'll see. 

Q. Would you talk about the congratulatory note you got on the bus Sunday coming in
from the airport? 

A. I don't remember. 

Q. As Tom Gordon, Lou Merloni gave some insight that he would be on the roster
tomorrow. Would you talk about what went into those decisions? 

A. We talked about carrying 11 pitchers last year, here I go, last year, we carried
Jim, but this year we carried 11 maybe because our pitchers, our stars are, we protect
them. There was a question about Nomar about his wrist. There is a question about John
Valentin. I think he's played like seven games in the last month but certainly in the last
ten days. How healthy are these kids? You know, you need to protect, you need to protect
your pitchers and your players, too. You have to make those decisions. They're not easy
decisions, but you have to think about maybe the utilization of pinch runners and
something and who is going to play here and is this knee going the hold up. But we're
going to ride with those kids because they deserve to play and they're fine as we speak.
Certainly things can change but right now they're fine. But that's basically why you got
Merloni there. We talked about Gordon, Sadler. You can't have everything. We are trying to
protect what you can as best you can.            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT