AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: RED SOX v YANKEES
October 17, 1999
Jimy Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Assuming Mercker is your Game 5 starter, are you hoping to get more out of him than
you did in the last couple of starts?

JIMY WILLIAMS: Well, he's going to be our Game 5 starter. I don't assume anything. We
got an important game tonight, but Mercker's going to start the next game.

Q. I'm wondering, the added bonus of having Pedro go seven yesterday where you don't
have to go into your bullpen that deep, can you talk about what that means to you?

JIMY WILLIAMS: Well, I mean it helps a lot. It helped Garces, certainly, Lowe, I think,
too. But even though both of them were basically ready to pitch yesterday, you'd think
that an added day would help them; you don't know until they go pitch. But at least you
feel in your mind the availability of maybe utilizing their skills for more than just a
short period of time, if, in fact, we hadn't used them last night.

Q. Is your rotation for the rest of the series the same as it was for Games 1, 2 and 3?

JIMY WILLIAMS: Saberhagen pitching tonight, that's about as far as I can go. I already
talked about Mercker, he's going to pitch tomorrow. So... We got to take it one at a time.
We're down 2 to 1. Tough game for us against this tough club. Need a good performance from
Bret tonight. Left-hander over there is tough.

Q. You've beaten the defending champions nine times this year. What does that do for
your confidence when you play them?

JIMY WILLIAMS: We've only beaten them once. That's it. That's how you got to look at it
now. You know, we take it one game at a time. We're down two games to one. Certainly the
championship season, the games count to give you the opportunity to play in October. Once
that's over, you start a new season. We've been through one round. To me, it's a
four-legged race. You go through the marathon, then you go through -- things work out.
Somebody's going to end up with four legs. We're down two games to one. That's where we
are.

Q. Can you talk about whether momentum plays a factor in today's game off of last
night's win?

JIMY WILLIAMS: Well it's nothing to nothing. You start over again. I mean we needed to
win that game yesterday. We got a good performance from our starter. Certainly, he played
a clean game basically overall and got some key hits. You start over tonight, it's
nothing, nothing. You got Pettitte, we got Saberhagen. Goes back to starting pitching, you
know. That's what it's going to go back to. 

Q. With Mariano Rivera's dominance, does that play a factor in how you play the late
innings?

JIMY WILLIAMS: Well, I'm going back to the starters. I mean certainly he's a premiere
closer in baseball today. He is. But we need to get good innings out of our pitchers and
hopefully we can catch a couple balls right from the standpoint with guys in scoring
position and score some runs. Tough to talk about the ninth, eighth or ninth inning when
you haven't even played the first.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT