AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: RED SOX v YANKEES
October 16, 1999
Jimy Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Is Mike Stanley going to play today?

JIMY WILLIAMS: Mike is in the lineup. He will play, yes.

Q. Is your whole bullpen available as well?

JIMY WILLIAMS: Garces is fine along with the others, yes.

Q. We just asked Joe this question too, that there is almost a sense like all the
anticipation about today's start that there is no attention being paid to Game 4 tomorrow;
Saberhagen against Pettitte; do you get that sense at all that it might be anticlimactic?

JIMY WILLIAMS: Well, see, I have been that way all year. Just today's game, you know,
it is go out there and do the best we can to win this game. That is all we are going to
try and do. Can't worry about tomorrow. It is not that I have forgotten about tomorrow, it
is just that that is the way we are here. Focus on today's game the best we can.

Q. What has Saberhagen gone through with his shoulder health-wise just to get to this
point?

JIMY WILLIAMS: I am not one to really talk ahead in games, but since you just want to
ask about Bret Saberhagen, he has been through a tremendous amount starting in 1997 and
then coming back and pitching the way he did for our club last year; pitched very good
again this year and then the latter part ran into a little bit of a problem with his
shoulder. I think he was on his 25th day when he pitched the game in New York, so we had
to shut him down for a long period of time. But he is a warrior. He is a kid that -- he
relishes the moment now I think maybe as much or more than when he was healthy as a
youngster because he understands that maybe -- he could have not even been pitching again.
But all the hard work that he went through and we have a trainer in there Rick Zawacki,
who to me has done a tremendous job, encouraging him, getting on him, whatever it took to
help get this kid back. Certainly he had to do it on his own physically but words of
encouragement and at times maybe the other way to help get him back. But he has been
through a tremendous amount of pain and hard work and coming to the park early and
exercises and just to be able to go out there and pitch successfully at this level.

Q. Are you using the exact lineup you used in the first two games?

JIMY WILLIAMS: Varitek is going to hit third and Daubach seventh; other than that, it
is the same.

Q. Over the course of your years, each series is obviously different, is there a
home-field advantage in your mind at a place like Fenway Park as opposed to other series,
other teams that you have been involved with?

JIMY WILLIAMS: Well, I think in baseball there is less of a home-field advantage
overall than other sports. It is just my opinion. I don't know what that means, but that
is my opinion. I don't know if there is a home-field advantage stronger here than anywhere
else I have been. I mean, they had that other thing down in the south, you know, I don't
know. Players play, you know. If the fans feel it creates enthusiasm and electricity and
they really get involved, then maybe it can, maybe it does. I think we have great fans
here in Boston and they will be here today. I mean, they are going to be rocking and
rolling out there, I am telling you. But we have to stay focused on playing this game the
best way we can and let them enjoy it. I think all of us have to enjoy the moment. We have
to smell the roses of what we are watching here. This is a great opportunity for all of us
to see a tremendous game. It is a playoff game, two great pitchers in a fantastic city,
you know, how many people are going to have that opportunity to do this. I think all of us
here have to really relish this moment. I mean, I really mean that 4:20 or whatever it is,
I know it is a game. But it is in a special city and two teams that have locked horns
before. I am looking forward to it. I really am.

Q. Bret had a couple of rough postseason starts against the Indians; is his shoulder
okay?

JIMY WILLIAMS: His stuff was good the other day. It was just his location. I mean,
velocity comes into play at some point, pitching-wise, but it is location, change of
speeds, movement, then velocity. That is how I rate them. That is why Pedro is able to be
pitch-efficient and get out the other day because he located with less velocity. Until he
felt comfortable with his back in the third or fourth inning of the game he pitched the
other day. So it wasn't that his arm wasn't healthy. It was just that he didn't locate
like he is capable of and his numbers reflect that. So when he does pitch, you know,
hopefully he can this time.

Q. Do you expect both pitchers to go what, seven, eight, nine innings?

JIMY WILLIAMS: Go one hitter at a time. Go one out at a time. That is it.

Q. Comment on Jason Varitek's season and your move today to put him up third in the
batting order?

JIMY WILLIAMS: Well, he has had a tremendous season. He is an important factor to say
the least with our team, and his main focus is to try and help our pitchers get out and
utilize their pitchers in the proper counts whatever to get out. That is his main focus.
When he gets in the box and he has done very, very well offensively from both sides of the
plate. He really has. As far as him hitting third today, I think a week ago he hit third.
So it is not like he hasn't been there. He was there in the playoffs -- playoff games I
believe against Cleveland. If not there, then the latter part of the year for several
games. So it is not like it is a new situation for him.

Q. Has Pedro's back bothered him at all or is it fully recovered?

JIMY WILLIAMS: See, it is not bothering him. But I don't think it is fully recovered. I
don't know. I mean, I don't think there is anybody in our clubhouse that is 100% but I
don't think there is anybody in the Yankee clubhouse that is 100% either. But he is going
to go pitch. He hasn't really said anything about his back, so that is a good sign. Just
throwing everything. I am certain he is ready to pitch. He feels good enough to go compete
and in his mind go compete successfully. That is what we all gauge within ourselves and
the other players too. So I think he is fine from that standpoint.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT