AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: RED SOX v YANKEES
October 16, 1999
Jimy Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Have you ever seen a guy rebound quite the way Nomar does from injuries?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: He snared some line drives the other day too and hit a home run. I give
a lot of credit certainly to the young man, but our training -- Jimmy Rowe, they have two
different bandages for him for his wrist; one when he is hitting and then a different one
when he takes the field. That is why he is a little bit later than the rest of those guys
going out on the field because he has to have a different tape job. But he is just -- he
loves to play. I think you all know that. He is a fine, fine player. 
 
Q. You said before the game that location, then changing speed, movement and velocity
would be the priority. Did Pedro have his best stuff tonight, did he prove you right?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: I am not trying to be proved right. Location, change of speed, movement
then velocity. But I mean he pitched a strong, strong game. I don't have to tell you folks
that. I think we said in that game the other day that maybe his velocity wasn't what it
has been prior to the time that he hurt his back, but his location and his breaking ball,
which is change of speed and movement, you know, certainly came into play and I think it
did again tonight. I don't know what gun readings were going on out there tonight, I don't
know how hard he threw. He got in front of hitters, located, used different pitches to
start hitters off with and maybe to finish him off with. He used his whole repertoire so
to speak. 
 
Q. Could you talk about Valentin's home run; did that jump start the club?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: He had some very impressive numbers for playing eight games or whatever
in these Playoffs, but certainly that helped tremendously we are going against Roger
Clemens, the pitch he hit I think was probably a ball. It was a high fastball, but caught
it just right, you know, and he hit it real hard and certainly when you can get a couple
of runs up, and we are down two games, that helps us a lot, it really does. Then tacked on
where we got contributions certainly from that entire lineup later on. We made some very
good defensive plays too behind Pedro. 
 
Q. At what point did you and Joe start thinking about how far Pedro would go as the
score was mounting?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: Well, you really don't know what the other club is going to do
certainly. But you think about what your club is doing offensively and certainly what
Pedro is doing, you look at the number of pitches, you see his background where he has
been here the last week or ten days, you think about his back. I think his pitch count was
right over 100; correct me if I am wrong, a little bit over 100, so with that in mind,
seven innings, we have the lead. We need to get six out. We thought that was the right
time from our standpoint of both number of pitches, score, you know, not hurt the kid. 
 
Q. I understand that. Say like fifth inning, whatever the score was in the fifth. You
start thinking it then, maybe how far he would go exactly then based on the score -- how
far back?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: I don't really -- I don't say the other club is not going to score. I
don't say fifth inning if he pitches two more because I don't know what is going to
happen. That is why you play. Because they have such an outstanding team over there. When
you get through six and you look at the pitch count and you see the score, then you say,
well, we get three out here and you know, if we can get three out here with this club and
they don't score or whatever, then certainly we might consider it. And we tacked on some
runs again in the bottom half, but we had already made that decision after he pitched the
top of the 7th. To try and get those last six out, we put a couple of other guys in there
to pitch. 
 
Q. People who haven't seen the club very much might ask does playing at home make that
much of a difference in this team's hitting; does it?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: We had a winning record during the course of the season on the road;
correct me if I am wrong-- and at home, so, I think to get to this level, you have to have
the capabilities and qualities to win on the road as well as at home. As far as our fans,
we have tremendous fans here, you know, they were -- they were very vocal again tonight.
You know, I think they really like this team because they can associate with the kinds of
players that we have here with themselves. I mean, that is what I think. The association
-- they are in their uniforms so to speak even though they are not playing, that is what I
sense from this community. 
 
Q. Can you talk about your decision to move Daubach down in the lineup and how do you
think he responded tonight?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: Just a managerial decision, just flip flop those two guys, but certainly
he responded very well. His numbers are indicative of that. But the young man had a
tremendous year with our club. Here is a guy that came out of nowhere and the numbers he
put up, he has been instrumental in a lot of games for us this year, but he helped us in
that Cleveland series too, didn't get a lot of hits but got some big hits that last game
and certainly got a couple of big ones tonight. 
 
Q. How relaxing was it to be such a lopsided game as opposed to the last two that were
so close an intense and does that give you momentum?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: You never let up against the Yankees. That is kind of the way I answered
the other question about the pitching. You play the game nine innings. The other two were
-- I try and prepare the same way that is regular season with these games the best I can.
So, tense, I don't know. Trying to do right, you know, put them out there, let them play.
I don't know about tense, a lot more important things in life, you know? Really, there
really are. This is a game. We are trying to win certainly. Trying to do our damndest to
win these games, but I don't know about tense. Relaxing, yet I don't relax. But I don't
know if I am tense either. I enjoy watching these kids play these games I really do. 
 
Q. You won a blow out in the last round and it seemed to have some carry-over effect.
Do you expect that to happen again after this one?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: The score tomorrow when we start is nothing to nothing. So we start all
over. It is a great game, isn't it? Isn't it great, we get to this do this all again. It
is nice. I am serious. It really is. We are very happy to be playing we really are. I mean
it. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT