AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: RED SOX v YANKEES
October 15, 1999
Jimy Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Considering the circumstances the other night, how would you rate that performance
of Pedro's compared to other performances that you have seen?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: You are trying to get to the next level certainly and when you factor
that in with the thought and idea that we didn't even really know if he could pitch, that
if he could pitch, maybe two innings, it turned out to be six. It elevates us to the next
level then. Certainly in the year 1999 that was a premier performance for our ballclub to
help us immensely, especially with what happened early in that game. 
 
Q. Where does this team's resilience come from? Is it from you? Themselves? Their
feelings for each other? How do you pin point that?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: There is a whole bunch of baseball players and I am not sure if I can
really define it properly to you because maybe you are not in our dugout. You weren't
there the first day of spring training. Focus. Attitude. Will to win. Desire to want to
play. Win this one game. Make it simple. Then in retrospect you look back -- that is what
we talked about. Let's go play the schedule, play these games and see where we are, you
know, but let's make it simple and see if we can win today's game. That is about the way
we focused from the outset of our first practice in spring training. We have bounced back.
We stay pretty even keel from a mental standpoint, but the work ethic, I think is very
important on a daily basis, the consistency, the things we try and do out there to prepare
ourselves to win that game. One thing that maybe really sticks in my mind is if we have a
7:05 game here, which is a normal time, maybe during the season between 6:40 and 6:45,
there is probably eight guys out there together stretching together as a unit, preparing
themselves for the game with the pitcher and the catcher in the bullpen. So that they are
a unified group and they build on each other, they back each other. So I think it comes
from whether it is our trainers, our coaches and themselves, you know, being ready to play
that game. And it is a marathon certainly the season, but the sprint mode is on, it is a
compliment to them. I tip my cap to these kids. 
 
Q. Could you talk about the intangibles that Pedro brings to the team that is not so
obvious?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: Well, just a tangible first. Kid goes out in that game the other day and
he really stayed focused with his delivery because with his back being what it was and
really he didn't know how -- if he would be able to pitch. That he really stayed in
control of his faculties from a standpoint of not trying to overthrow a ball and pitch
which might end his inning right then. I really don't think he overextended one pitch. If
you look at the gun readings that -- certainly they are in the Cleveland Stadium, whatever
that means, but they started out maybe 90 or a little below. And at times, if he needed a
certain pitch and maybe he felt like he had to rev it up a little bit, he'd go 93, 94 then
he'd back off again, but he utilized all his pitches. But he has the uncanny ability to
pitch and win with his command. If you look at his walks, I mean, that is just fantastic,
for the amount of innings he pitches and for the amount of strike outs that he has; that
he walks so few people, the ability to command a baseball 60 feet, six inches; not just
throw it over the plate, but throw it to a spot. He had a part of that plate for a called
strike or have a player swing and miss. The intangibles, just his presence, I think maybe
just his presence, you look at him as the man. This kid has had some kind of year in 1999.
Just a tremendous year, game in, game out. And then look at that game the other day when
we needed to win that game if we were going to advance and come in and pitch like he did. 
 
Q. Losses aside, how did you feel about what took place in the first two games? Did you
feel unlucky? Did you feel you didn't take advantage of chances?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: We just play the games the best we can, our capability. We know the
magnitude of ALCS, not too many teams left playing. But nobody feels sorry for us, you
know, we are going to be prepared tomorrow. I think maybe tomorrow might be just about our
1200th game for the year. I know our kids are going to be just as prepared tomorrow as
they were the first day of spring training when we hit that field. Physically and mentally
we are ready and prepared to go out and play a game and do our darndest to win it. So with
that in mind, we know we need a win tomorrow. We are going to do our darndest to win
tomorrow. But as far as anything -- I don't really look at it like that. I am really
looking forward to playing this game, watching our club play. I like the way they play. We
know we are playing a tough team, had two tough games. 
 
Q. Looks likes you guys will need pitching through the whole series. But will you
consider tomorrow the key matchup, the heavyweight bout?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: To get to this level first and foremost you have to have good starting
pitching; they set the tone, they really do. As far as tomorrow's game, I think the
circuit breaker for that electric company, for the great pad in the sky, they might be
challenged. 
 
Q. Were you aware that somebody spent $12,000 for four tickets. Does that kind of
astound you, the interest level it gets?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: I think you probably should comment on that yourself. I just leave it at
that. 
 
Q. Does it matter at all that you have lost two close one-run games that could have
gone either way? Does that encourage you, discourage you or is that completely immaterial?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: We played good but not good enough. The other club won. So you know, you
take the games one at a time. We lost 4-3, 3-2, basically we had the lead in both games,
but we had some opportunities to score, put the right hitters up there in the right
situations and unfortunately didn't get a hit. That is the way this game goes. You just
play them one at a time from that standpoint and move on. You can't look back, really
can't; me I am looking forward from the standpoint of enjoying the off day because that is
today, got to enjoy it and then when tomorrow comes, look forward to playing that game. 
 
Q. Do you think you might make any lineup changes for tomorrow and are you prepared to
announce any right now?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: You know I don't make lineups out of here. We have 14 position players,
I will be honest but I could take them right out of a hat. I'd feel good to have any of
the nine that I picked out of that hat to go out there and help us win a game. I really
would. 
 
Q. It is your opinion that Pedro is going to be able to extend himself more than he did
in the last game?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: You have to go with the man. You have to go with what he feels. You have
to go with the feedback that you get from him. Certainly I know he is prepared the best he
can be to pitch that game tomorrow and then you proceed. To my knowledge he really hasn't
had any setbacks or problems with his back, which is a plus. So I am certain he is going
to give everything he has got out there, we all know that because he loves to pitch. He
really loves to pitch. He loves baseball. 
 
Q. Over your years in baseball, do you remember a matchup in the postseason that
compares to a Clemens/Pedro matchup?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: Well, certainly I wasn't here when Roger Clemens pitched for the Red
Sox, so those of you who live here and write here and have been associated with them a lot
longer then maybe I have, can make a comparison yourself. I have only been here since
Pedro was here, the last couple of years. But certainly Roger Clemens is a premier
pitcher, so you look at the number of games that he has won, certainly here, Toronto, and
New York and look what Pedro has done in basically Los Angeles, Montreal and Boston. You
have two premier pitchers going at each other. We have already spoken that pitching is a
key -- starting pitching, that is how you get to this level. So you don't know what kind
of a game it is going to be. You would think it would be a low-scoring game but you never
know. You really don't. That is why you got to play the games. 
 
Q. Given what Pedro did in Cleveland and the way he pitched here in the All-Star Game,
does that tell you that he really thrives on big-moment situations like he faces tomorrow?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: I think if you look at his record, every time he pitches it is a big
moment. That is just the way he is. He loves to pitch. He loves to go out and do his best
to help his team win. Certainly those are individual performances that you are talking
about, but I think he had 23 victories during the course of this season. To me those are
very important for him too. That is his whole mindset, be prepared to pitch that game and
help his team win. Although, if you look at the All-Star Game, that was certainly a
phenomenal performance and what he did the other day for our team was the same. 
 
Q. Do you have any concerns about Mike Stanley's availability?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: He got whacked good. He got whacked pretty good. I just talked to him,
but he says he is better. I said better than what? He got hit not too many hours ago, but
I really believe he will be ready to play. He is a tough kid, you know, he is -- he
doesn't say a lot, but that ball got him flush. 
 
Q. How soon after the loss do you stop thinking we just lost a tough game and start
thinking about Pedro and Game 3?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: Well, nobody likes to lose, we are not any different than anybody else.
I will be honest, it takes a little bit of time, I will be honest with you. How soon do I
think about Pedro? Well, after we left that clubhouse, start thinking about this day off.
That is what we have to enjoy first, you know, and then go on to the game tomorrow. 
 
Q. Would you say Pedro's personality has a pretty strong effect on your team?
 
 JIMY WILLIAMS: He is a live wire. This kid is a live wire. He is very vibrant. He is
enthusiastic. Charismatic. He enjoys -- he enjoys putting a uniform on and being out
there, more so when he is pitching, certainly. But even when he is not, he is vibrant. He
is alive. He really is. He is infectious. He can get other people to another level, I
think. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT