AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: RED SOX v YANKEES
October 14, 1999
Jimy Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Was Cleveland's pitching that bad that you had like 36 runs in two days or is the
Yankees' pitching that much superior?

JIMY WILLIAMS: Everyday is a new day. Did you wear the same clothes yesterday?

Q. No.

JIMY WILLIAMS: Everyday is a new day. You go out every game starts nothing, nothing;
you don't know what is going to happen in a baseball game. Go out and compete. We know the
Yankees are the reigning champions. They are not that just because of whatever. They
earned that title. They understand. We have competed pretty well against them, but we
haven't done well, bottom line, that is to win a game. So we will go back to Boston, see
what we can do there.

Q. Your evaluation, thoughts on Ramon's performance tonight?

JIMY WILLIAMS: I thought he pitched a tremendous game. Kept us in that game; starter
sets the tone we always say, certainly he did more than that. I think he threw around 120
pitches or thereabouts, which I don't know when the last time he threw 120, but maybe we
pushed him. I don't know, really I just don't want to hurt the kid, but I thought he had
done his job and it was time to make a change.

Q. Bobby Cox was saying the other day about how tough these close games are in the
system. You have played all but one inning of them, would you talk about how tough that is
on your system?

JIMY WILLIAMS: My system? You know what, in a one-run game you are in it 'til the last
swing, that is you want that opportunity. We had two guys on in the ninth. One strike away
twice and both of them got hits. So with that in mind, you know, you got to play nine
innings, you got to play the games. As far as my system, I ain't worried about my system.
It is okay.

Q. I am talking about the stress of it, the thinking, hasn't been a break for either
team in this series.

JIMY WILLIAMS: I mean like even in the eighth we utilized all our players; the pitcher
was in the game, we didn't have more players but took a shot at it, you know, had the
right people up, had an opportunity, just didn't work. But --

Q. Coming back to the 7th inning, Knoblauch's steal at -- do you think that Knoblauch's
steal of third base was a turning point?

JIMY WILLIAMS: Being realistic, no. I thought he would have scored anyway. You got to
play O'Neill power to left field. It is a big yard out there, especially in left. Can't
play him -- but I really don't think it would have made any difference. Only way it would
have made a difference is to me a wild pitch, pass ball error, you people know the
different ways of scoring from third.

Q. Is it easier to face going home down 0 and 2 having done it once and knowing what
the result was?

JIMY WILLIAMS: Well, it is never easy 0 and 2. We understand that. But all we can play
is one game. That is all we can go home and get ready for that one game that we are going
to go play on Saturday. I think it is Saturday, right. What day is today? (Laughter.) But
--

Q. No stress.

JIMY WILLIAMS: You know, yes, we did go through it already, very recent days, but maybe
the way the game ended maybe the way we had a shot in the 8th it didn't work, symbolic of
the way we came back down 0-2. Can we do it again? I hope you all come to Boston; they
have good restaurants there, it is a nice city. Really is, but we are going, we will be
there to play to say the least.

Q. Talk more about the 8th inning, when was the last time you saw that many moves in
one inning, did you feel the tide was turning, bases loaded one out?

JIMY WILLIAMS: Just try to put us in position to have a chance where a base hit would
put us out in front, had the right guy, you know. Buford is at second, if you get a
legitimate base hit, you know, unless a ball is scalded to O'Neill because he throws very
well. Shorter porch out there, proximity is closer, you really have a chance to get out in
front. We know who is going to pitch the 9th. Even though he pitched two innings last
night, you take a shot at it. You make those moves. Hopefully they work out.

Q. You had a combined seven inches from two home runs from Varitek and O'Leary, can you
talk about that?

JIMY WILLIAMS: You must work for home depot selling lumber or something. (Laughter.)
You are about right, I guess I am being a wise guy, but you are -- you are just about
right. I thought Varitek's ball went up in the air, but I guess I was wrong, it had gone
out there. I thought only 100 yards away but the other ball, O'Leary hit it was close too,
so -- I mean, we just got to keep playing. That is it. No excuses for anything. They beat
us both games.

Q. You had so many standed runners, one of your best pitchers going today. How many
regrets do you have?

JIMY WILLIAMS: We had a good pitcher going yesterday, good one going today. Have
another good one going Saturday. Those kids go up there -- we didn't get to this level
without getting hits with those in scoring position, so maybe this particular case you tip
your cap to the opposing pitchers, they got their out when they needed them. For us that's
all I can say. But I thought we had some good at-bats and some swing on their pitchers but
unfortunately it didn't work.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT