DIAMOND RESORTS TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 19, 2019
Sterling Sharpe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Can you tell us about today?  
STERLING SHARPE: Today was fun.  I played with two wonderful female golfers in Stacy Lewis and Blair O'Neal.  We had a real good time.  We laughed a lot.  We joked a lot.  We played some really good golf.  They played phenomenal.  We got out first, which was really fun, and we got to play really fast on the front, so we got in a good rhythm.   
We stayed out of each other's way.  We kept each other relaxed, and I think we all played pretty well.   
 Q.  How is the atmosphere different, if at all, having a full field LPGA event here as opposed to previous years?  
STERLING SHARPE: Well, this is a tough golf course for some of the girls who don't hit it as far.  I mean, you have to really have control of your game.  I mean, Stacy is not the longest on the LPGA Tour, but she hits it very straight.  She can shape it, and she got it around.  When you've got a wedge in her hand, she pretty much made birdie.   
So she knew what her tough holes were.  She played a round of tough holes and made some great pars, but when she got a chance to get a wedge in her hand, she made birdies, and that gives you a chance.   
 Q.  I heard you say that you follow the LPGA.  What's the experience like inside the ropes now that you've experienced it several times now with LPGA players?  
STERLING SHARPE: You know what's really interesting is I'm going to say the Asians because you don't know -- we don't know, because we just see them on TV, how much English they speak.  Extremely friendly.  They were very welcoming to us.  I played with Moriya Jutanugarn the first day, and we had a blast.  We exchanged cell numbers, and we had a ball.  We bet cupcakes on birdies.   
I think that was the biggest thing for me because you weren't sure, you know, English-wise what that barrier was going to be.  Shanshan Feng and Amy Yang and all of them have been wonderful and very welcoming to us being able to play with them.   
 Q.  That's great.  How do you feel about tomorrow?  
STERLING SHARPE: Oh, I'm just going to go out and keep playing like -- I'm going to hit it, and hopefully I can go hit it again.  I don't really concern myself with trying to play like the pros.  I just love playing.  I love being out here, seeing my old friends on the LPGA Tour now, made some new ones.  That's all I'm here for.  I'm here for fun.  I enjoyed myself this week.  I enjoyed myself with the Senior Tour guys.  The ladies are a lot of fun too.   
 Q.  How long have you been playing golf?  
STERLING SHARPE: A little over 20 years.   
 Q.  Where do you play?  What's your home club?  
STERLING SHARPE: I'm in South Carolina.  Mi Hyang Lee plays out of my home course in Columbia.  I get to see her practicing a lot, but I never bother her because I know she's working.  She was like, oh, no, you can say hi.  I'm like, I know you're working on your game, and your game is a little more important than mine.  I see her all the time working on her game, and I just never bothered her.  Now I'm going to bother her like crazy.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT