NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: PENGUINS v RED WINGS
June 5, 2009
Tyler Kennedy
Brooks Orpik
Jordan Staal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Brooks, what we're seeing on the ice now, how much of that is an actual carryover from what happened in the Final last year? Some of the battles we're seeing?   
 BROOKS ORPIK: I don't know. It's hard to say. I don't think there's much carry over to be honest. When you get to this point of the season, I think no matter who you're playing against, your battle level's going to be the same.   
 Yeah, in terms of like rivalries or playing Phillie and stuff, I don't see there being any extra heated rivalries compared to last year or any carryover from last year, really.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about Pavel Datsyuk? Looks like he'll be back in the lineup? And the different look that comes at you with that. And Jordan, just talk about how confidence and how big a part that is of your game and when you're playing well, how you play with that confidence?   
 BROOKS ORPIK: We haven't really thought about it too much. We've heard all the chatter about them coming back. It doesn't change anything for us to be honest. Even if he does come back, we all have a lot of respect for the player he is. But that being said, I don't know how effective he's going to be if he comes back and he's playing at whatever level he's playing at.   
 Like I said, we're not too concerned about that. I think throughout the playoffs we've just been more concerned with the way we're playing. And if he does come back, it doesn't really change much for us, really.   
 JORDAN STAAL: I mean, I'm just going out and playing. Throughout the playoffs I've just been trying to keep improving my game, and obviously gaining as much confidence as possible. You know, I think the first couple of games I played pretty well in the series, and I knew good things were going to happen sooner or later, and I kind of kept it going.  
  
  Q. How much of what we've seen for you guys up front in this series goes back to maybe what you watched from the Anaheim tapes in terms of trying to physically impose your will on the Wings' defensemen?   
 JORDAN STAAL: Yeah, I think our ultimate goal as a group of four is just wearing them down and playing in their end. You know, physically and mentally just one after another, shift after shift, kind of wearing them down.   
 You know, I think our line is a big part of that. Kind of leading the way as a group and kind of showing the way we need to play every night.  
 TYLER KENNEDY: I think we've got a lot of guys that are physical, and for us to be successful we have to be physical. And that's what we're trying to do right now, so.   
  
  Q. Obviously, for you guys to win the series you have to win one game at Joe Louis Arena. I'm wondering how much tougher it is to play the Wings there than it is at home?   
 BROOKS ORPIK: I think any team they have a little bit of an advantage just because of the crowd, and obviously we fed off our crowd last night. But I think we've just got to keep playing the same way we've been playing the whole series.   
 The first couple of games we obviously weren't really happy because of the results, but thought we played well enough to at least win one of those games and a lot has been made of those crazy bounces at the board and stuff like that.   
 It's something we're used to. It's nothing that really surprised us. But I think the first couple of games they played were well enough to win, and I thought we did, too. We just didn't cash in on our opportunities.   
 We knew going into the series we had to win at least one game here, so that's the position we've put ourselves in. We're still pretty confident we can do that.   
  
  Q. For ten games going back to last year, you've kind of been in the chasing role, kind of chasing after them because they got leads both series. Does the dynamic change at all now? Finally you catch them, you even it up, do you feel a change in either momentum or the dynamic of the series?   
 JORDAN STAAL: I think we started off the series tied. It's obviously best of three from now on. So I would change it's changed a whole lot. It would be -- I think the dynamic would definitely change if we went up one, and it would be interesting the way that folded out. Obviously, that is our goal to come in and steal a game here. And it's all we're focused on.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about your evolution as a penalty killer at this level. How long was it before you were comfortable killing penalties in the NHL? And what do you try to do out there to be a good penalty killer now?   
 JORDAN STAAL: Well, in juniors I had a lot of penalty killing. As soon as I got here I kind of fit into that role of getting out there and killing penalties. I think with my reach and I'm trying to split plays is a big thing for me. It's always nice to have that extra long stick for a poke check. And all those things combined, I guess, is helping me do a decent job as a penalty killer, I guess.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT