NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: PENGUINS v RED WINGS
June 3, 2009
Marc Andre Fleury
Brooks Orpik
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Brooks, you guys are in the exact same position as last year in terms of being down 2-1. But does it feel different to you right now than it did last year going into Game 4? 
 BROOKS ORPIK: Yeah, I mean, the situation obviously is the exact same being down 2-1. But, obviously, we felt we deserved a lot better in Detroit there the first couple of games. Last night was probably our worst of the three. So it's funny how things play out. But we came back. We showed a lot of confidence. 
 I think the Washington Series was a good test for us going down 0-2. And we could fall back on that, and bring some things from that series to this series. But we're still a real confident group coming here. We know we have our work cut out for us. But it's a lot different than last year, that's for sure. 

 Q. What do you do at this time of year when the refs traditionally don't like to call a lot? To try to draw more penalties against a team that traditionally doesn't take a lot of penalties. How do you draw more penalties against the Wings? 
 BROOKS ORPIK: Biggest thing is just puck possession. I think even the regular season, the more puck possession you have, the more penalties you're going to draw. 
 Last night, obviously, we got in a little bit of trouble in the second period with the way we were turning the pucks over in the neutral zone. But it's an even playing field. Both teams know what to expect from the referees. It's been pretty consistent all three games. I don't think you can worry about it too much. You've just got to take the opportunities you get. 
 The power plays were huge, obviously. We only got three or four last night, but we still capitalized on both of them. 

 Q. Can you talk about the physical play and how important that was for you guys in Game 3? And then Marc-Andre, how nice was it for you to get some breaks and bounces go your way last night? 
 BROOKS ORPIK: Yeah, it wasn't something that we addressed before the game. It was just something that we've tried to do all series. Last night maybe we had some more opportunities as opposed to the first couple of games. 
 But, yeah, we feel like we've played that way. The longer the series goes, it's to our advantage. Obviously, I think we got to the third period there, they looked pretty tired. I thought their shots were pretty indicative of that, too.

MARC-ANDRE FLEURY: Yeah, it was good I don't know. I think that's why the playoffs are so fun. It's best for wins. And whatever happens in those first game, you know, you're going to forget about it, and always start over again every night. You know, last night was a little bit better for me, and, you know, we've got the win, so, that's great. 

 Q. Can you talk about the progression in your career from maybe the time under Greg Patrick, you know, when you were just starting and maybe not the best guy to move a puck or hit a target without getting caught out of position. Now you've changed that all around. Just the progression? 
 BROOKS ORPIK: Yeah, it's been a constant development, I think, for me. Being here I think I've gone through a bunch of different coaches and GM's here. And there's not a whole lot of people here that were here my first couple of years, that's for sure. Yeah, it's something that there's obviously been some bumps in the road to where I've gotten here now. 
 But, yeah, yeah, I've really enjoyed my time here, really. You just try to come and get better every day. I'm obviously surrounded by some great players that make you better. I think with the four forwards that we have, that's one of the advantages that the defensemen have. You go with these guys and practice every day. I don't want to say. It's easy when you get to the games, but I think you're very well prepared when you get to the games because of the guys we practice against every day. 

 Q. Do you think that maybe the second period last night was a little bit of a turning point for you because you were able to keep your team at 2-2? They pretty much dominated, and you were able to put them in a position to win in the third period. For yourself, did you kind of look at it like that a little maybe? 

MARC-ANDRE FLEURY: I don't know. A lot of times I was just trying to make saves and trying to keep the score tight. Keep the team in the game. You know, it felt good to have some shots and being able to make some saves and keep the team at 2-2. 

 Q. Could you please just talk a bit about the impact that Sergei Gonchar's return had on this team in February? And the impact he has in your locker room every day now? 
 BROOKS ORPIK: Yeah, well, the regular season I think we were about a 500 team without him. I think a lot of the defensemen were pushed into roles that they weren't really all that comfortable with when he was out. 
 I don't know, it's funny. He's a really quiet guy. Keeps to himself, pretty private person. But when he is in the lineup, he just seems like he has a really calming influence on everybody. I don't know if that's because, like I said, he pushes everyone back into their normal roles or whatever. 
 But, obviously, on the power play it's the same sort of thing. He slows down the pace to his face. And, yeah. Like I said, it's just funny how he works. He's such a quiet guy, but I know especially with the six other defensemen, he has a real calming influence over us. 

 Q. A year ago in the Cup, Evgeni Malkin had a bit of a tough series. But obviously, he's been one of the stars this time around. And I'm wondering if you see any difference in his temperament or the way he is off the ice that might be contributing to that? 
 BROOKS ORPIK: Not really. I mean, I think people lose sight of how young some of these guys are on the team. Like him, Jordan, Sid. They're still so young. So much pressure is put on these guys. 
 It's his first time playing that long. I don't think his body was really physically ready for it. I think he's done a lot better job off the ice preparing his body for this time of the year. Yeah, he's still 22, 23, whatever he is. I mean, he has some room to learn and room to grow. I think he's done a really good job of committing himself off the ice. Which has paid big dividends for him now. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT