NHL ENTRY DRAFT
June 24, 2000
Brooks Orpik
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Brooks, when you see yourself getting so high and the way your stock has grown up,
what are you thinking?

BROOKS ORPIK: I think going into -- you have expectations of where you want to go. You
try not to think of it too much, but it's still in the back of your mind. I guess I was a
little disappointed at first, but I mean right now, I mean there's no room for
disappointment. I'm just pretty excited. I think going into it means a little bit more
than it does now, so I'm just happy.

Q. Could you talk about the irony of you being a member of the famous organization,
being named after Herb Brooks?

BROOKS ORPIK: It was kind of funny meeting him, I guess, at first. He said something to
me. I guess it's funny how it worked out. I didn't have much conversation with the
Pittsburgh organization going into it, so I was surprised at first. I guess with that
whole thing in the back of my mind, it's kind of funny how things worked out.

Q. Did you think Pittsburgh didn't communicate with you because they thought you might
not be available by the time they picked?

BROOKS ORPIK: I guess so. I tried not to think about it too much, who was interviewing
me. There might be a reason. I'm not sure why.

Q. Are you going back to camp next year?

BROOKS ORPIK: I don't know the situation. The second in DC is second to none. Might be
hard to pass up if I decided to leave. I'll give more thought to it later on. Like I said,
it's pretty hard to pass up.

Q. Is there anybody in the NHL who you would compare yourself to?

BROOKS ORPIK: I guess I admire Scott Stevens the most. As far as someone comparing
to...(Inaudible).

Q. Have the Penguins indicated to you which they would prefer?

BROOKS ORPIK: No, like I said before, I had no interviews with them before, so it was
pretty surprising to me to get drafted by Pittsburgh. I think I'll talk about that later
on, probably in the next couple weeks or so. It's really all up in the air now I think.

Q. What were your thoughts when Buffalo came and went? Relief or disappointment or
nothing at all?

BROOKS ORPIK: I guess nothing at all. Definitely when I saw them picking, it was kind
of -- it was pretty funny being from there. But I guess, like I said before, I really
didn't think about it too much, what teams were that interested, they didn't seem that
interested. I guess I would have been happy getting drafted there. But I mean, where I got
drafted really didn't mean too much to me. No matter where I went, I was going to be
happy. 

Q. This year's Draft says a lot about the college players. What's your slant on it?

BROOKS ORPIK: I don't really think I have a slam on it.

Q. A slant.

BROOKS ORPIK: I think it's great for college. You see the first two guys, Ricky and
Dany going one, two, then my teammate Krys and I going -- but I think it's just great for
college really. It's been overshadowed by Juniors a lot, the last couple years. So maybe
things have turned around a little bit for us.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT