NBA AWARDS SHOW
June 25, 2018
Rudy Gobert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Rudy, with all the injuries and the run you guys had to make at the end of the season this year, what does this award mean to recognize that?  
RUDY GOBERT: It just means a lot.  It's not just, you know what, I think it's something that the Jazz organization, Coach Quin [Snyder], my teammates, we really work [hard] every day. This is an individual award, but I'd never be here without them.  So [it] means a lot.   
 Q.  From one Rudy to another, congratulations on your award.  Looking at the season, I had a chance to watch a lot of those games and I've seen a lot of great chemistry, Donovan Mitchell, you had a great team.  What do you look forward to next season?  Do you think there will be a bigger impact in the Western Conference for you guys?  
RUDY GOBERT: Definitely.  I think we did a great job for drafting Donovan.  I think it's probably one of the guys that you don't see pretty often in the league.  He's got unlimited potential.  He's a great kid.  He wants to win, and we have a great coaching staff, so the sky's the limit.  We just want to keep getting better and keep improving and hopefully get a championship in the near future.   
 Q.  Congratulations on your victory, your win there.  
RUDY GOBERT: Thank you.   
 Q.  The Utah Jazz, what have you learned playing with with the Jazz, and what do the Jazz need to do to take the next step in this tough Western Conference?  
RUDY GOBERT: What did I learn?  I learned a lot of things.  I got drafted, came over when I was 21 years old.  It was my first experience in the NBA.  I was lucky enough to be in a great organization, and you know, they made sure I had everything I needed on the court and outside the court.  You know, that really helped me to be a better player and a better man.   
Now it's the time for us when we feel that we can take another step forward and I think we will.  We've got all pieces we need.  Like I said, the sky's the limit for us.   
 Q.  A lot of your contemporaries are thinking about or considering going to other teams to team up and build a better team for a championship.  What is your thought about that, and would you consider going to a different team to complete your goals in the NBA?  
RUDY GOBERT: I mean, I take so much pride into what we are building right now as a team that to me it means more than just go and change to another team or ride somebody's boat.  I think what's happening, what we're building means more than anything.  I truly believe we're going to win a championship in the future, but it would mean so much more the way -- all the things we've been through as a group, as an organization that it has more value in that for me.   
 Q.  You said this year you had a goal to be the top defense in the NBA and compete again in the very beginning.  You were very close to being the top rated [defense] and obviously competed.  What do you think when you see yourself as a team that's a contending team that can build around defense?  
RUDY GOBERT: I mean, defense to me is something that when you watch a game you don't really pay attention to defense unless you're very -- unless you're a specialist.  People watch the points, they watch the highlights.  But the defense I think helps the offense.  I think when you're a very good defensive team -- it's very rare a team wins a championship when you're not a very good defensive team.  I think when you're a very good defensive team you give  yourself a chance every night, on the road, at home, it's a big factor and something to build on.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT