NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE SEMIFINALS: JAZZ vs WARRIORS
May 2, 2017
Rudy Gobert
Gordon Hayward
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Jazz - 94, Warriors - 106   
 Q.  Talked about how much of a defensive team they are.  But did it ramp up, do you feel like in the playoff game versus what you've seen in the regular season against them?  
GORDON HAYWARD: No, I think it was very similar, kind of what we expected.  We just didn't execute like we wanted to tonight and missed some shots.  So definitely not the way we wanted to start, but just one game.  Have to figure something out and be ready for the next one.   
 Q.  Gordon, they had a significant advantage in the fast-break points.  Was that more of a reflection of the 14 turnovers or an inability to stop them on the transition?  
GORDON HAYWARD: Yeah, I think a lot of it was just our offense, whether it was missed long shots that led to the break or turnovers, like you pointed out, they were really good in the open court and capitalizing on that.  So we're going to have to be better.   
 Q.  The Warriors throw so many different looks at you, how difficult is it for you to adjust on the fly during the game?  
RUDY GOBERT: It's a very good team.  You know they can shoot and they can move the ball pretty well.  So just try to execute the game plan and make them make the toughest shots possible.   
 Q.  You got switched out on Steph a couple times tonight, and one occasion actually from the basket.  What's going through your mind when you're in that position against him?  
RUDY GOBERT: We're just trying to make them drive.  That's been our thing.  Just trying to make them drive and make him hit a tough shot at the rim.  That was the goal.  He's a very good finisher, so just trying to make it tough on him.   
 Q.  Gordon, coming off that tough seven-game series and a slow start a little bit, how much did it have to do with fatigue maybe?  
GORDON HAYWARD: Yeah, I don't want to blame it on fatigue at all.  I think they just came out firing and knocked us back a little bit.  So, I don't think it has anything to do with fatigue.  We'll be ready to go.   
 Q.  How frustrating can it be playing against Draymond Green where he's poking away steals and doing some of the stuff he does defensively and letting you guys know about it at times?  
GORDON HAYWARD: I'm not too worried about it.  Trying to focus on executing our game plan.  You know, he's a good defender and, you know, he's going to have -- they're going to have some steals, we're going to have some turnovers, but I'm not too worried about any of the other stuff.  We're just trying to execute, like I said.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT