NBA DRAFT
June 27, 2013
Rudy Gobert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







RUDY GOBERT
  Denver, No. 27

THE MODERATOR:   Please start with an opening statement about your feelings about getting drafted. 
RUDY GOBERT:   I feel great.   It was my dream since I'm a kid.   I feel great. 

Q.   Rudy, we talked I guess it was almost a month ago now.   You felt you were going to be going a lot earlier in the draft.   How does it feel to be drafted?   And what do you think you can bring right away to Utah? 
RUDY GOBERT:   I think it's the same.   It will be great.   I can bring defense, block shots, rebound, and bring my offensive game to help the team to win.   Getting better month by month. 

Q.   Rudy, Denver is a team that has a lot of young talent.   But they can be injury‑prone with the front court.   So talk about how you can possibly have an opportunity to get minutes as the season goes along. 
RUDY GOBERT:   I mean, just keep working and try to show I can play and getting better on my game.   I'm going to have some opportunities, I'm sure. 

Q.   Rudy, talk about how big a change it's going to be from playing in France to banging with bigger guys every night.   By bigger, I mean heavier guys. 
RUDY GOBERT:   In France I played against heavy guys.   They were like tall.   6'9", 6'11".   Not 7'2" or 7'1".   Just need to get better.   I think I'm going to be good.

Q.   Just to confirm, do you know if you've been traded or not? 
RUDY GOBERT:   I don't know.   I don't know yet. 

Q.   Because there's rumors saying you've been traded to the Utah Jazz. 
RUDY GOBERT:   Okay. 

Q.   Quick question.   If you do stay in Denver, how excited would you be to have a French connection with Evan Fournier?   As well as how much do you know about Brian Shaw? 
RUDY GOBERT:   It would be great to stay with him.   He's my friend.   I know him for like six or seven years.   I played with him many times on the national team.   So it would be great. 
And for the coach, I don't really know him.   (Indiscernible).   I'm going to get to know him. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT