KITCHENAID SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2018
Stuart Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








STUART SMITH: I mean, everyone is going to say, oh, yeah, the leader choked and all that stuff.  But I was fine.  I had a good warm-up and just hit a bad shot there on 11 and a bad shot on 12 and hit one out of bounds on 12 out of the bunker.  I didn't know there was out of bounds there.
Q. The problems started at 11?
STUART SMITH: 11, that was my second that I hit in the water.  So that stung but, okay, 5, no big deal, right.  And I was in the fairway bunker on 12 and up against the edge I had to hook it around there and I hooked it a little too much, it hit hard somewhere and it went out of bounds.  So then I had to go drop it in the bunker.  Of course, when I drop it buried, so then I had to just hack it out and hit up and --
Q. Just compounded things.
STUART SMITH: Everything compounded on that nine.  I still hit a few good shots, I didn't putt very well on that first nine, but...
Q. And then when you tried to right yourself at the turn, what happened then?
STUART SMITH: Well, I hit it good on the second nine.  I made double on 2.  I hit it over the green.  All of us hit it long there.  So we all misclubbed.  I didn't really hit a bad shot, I was over the pin and long in the hazard.
Q. So like you said there was no really big nerves at all, you felt pretty good going out.
STUART SMITH: Yeah, I did.  I really did.  I had a good night's sleep, there's nothing like sleeping on the lead, none of that.  I answered a ton of e-mails and texts, but I still had fun, I enjoyed my now shorter time than I hoped, but always a great week and I appreciate to be here.
Q. What's next in your schedule?
STUART SMITH: Next on the schedule will be the National Club Pro.
Q. You'll be there.  Yeah.
STUART SMITH: Coming out to my section.
Q. It's not a far drive for you.
STUART SMITH: Five hours, but so not too bad.  So that's next and then the National Senior in October and maybe something in between, we'll see.
Q. The experience, we enjoyed it, we were there to celebrate it and we wish we could have closed it.
STUART SMITH: Yeah, it's one of those, would it have been better to have shot 74, 75?  Hell no.  I'll take the 66, 83 and enjoy the 66 yesterday and just, you put this one down to just plane old golf.  It's a nasty game we play sometimes.  Glad I have a day job.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT