SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 22, 2014
Stuart Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Your overall thoughts on the round today.   It seems like after the first little bit it got pretty consistent there.   
STUART SMITH:   Pretty steady.   I had a couple‑‑ I didn't putt extremely well today, but I let some slip away, but I had a couple good breaks and made a few birdies on those good breaks.   So that kept me steady.  
   
 Q.   Were there any holes or situations that you felt you could have made up a stroke or two, looking back now?  
STUART SMITH:   A golfer can always do that.   Are you kidding me?   
I just missed a short one on 18.   I would have liked to have had that one to get under par.   But it all comes out in the wash, it's all good.  
   
 Q.   What are your overall thoughts on the course itself?  
STUART SMITH:   I love the golf course, the layout's great, the greens are a little bit over the top, as I'm sure you've heard.   But overall it's fantastic, fantastic condition, very interesting layout.   
7, 8 and 9, it feels like I'm at Cypress Point.   And then you're back through the trees.   So it's really an interesting layout and a lot of fun.  
   
 Q.   What was your practice like this week?   Did you feel comfortable out here on the course or did it take awhile to adjust?  
STUART SMITH:   I felt comfortable.   The first day I was a little bit spooked maybe on greens.   But I think after a couple days on them getting acclimated, getting my creativity going.   You just got to be careful where you miss your shots and take the easy road, hopefully.  
   
 Q.   What's your mentality heading into tomorrow now?  
STUART SMITH:   I just got to keep playing.   I've been playing well coming into this event and I think I'm getting over some of the intimidation factor of being at these events.   So that's a big hurdle to overcome.   I feel good going into tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   What's it like having a lot of people back home cheering for you?   Must be pretty cool.   
STUART SMITH:   It's fantastic.   I know everyone's at the club and they're watching hole by hole.   And my caddie and wife are here and members at my club, a couple have made the trip.   So that's great to get the support from them.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT