U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2018
Justin Suh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I've got Justin Suh with me.  Six birdies, four bogeys today.  
JUSTIN SUH: I honestly have no idea.   
 Q.  I got you for 4, 6, 7, 8, 15, and 18 for birdies, and then four bogeys.  
JUSTIN SUH: Yeah.   
 Q.  So a little bit of a roller coaster, but still the wheels were on, right?  
JUSTIN SUH: They were.  It was a struggle in the middle just because the winds were switching like I was talking about earlier.  But I don't know, towards the end it got really calm.  It was just peaceful.   
Then I was executing the right shots.  On I think 4 i had a little 2-incher; almost made it.  Hit the hole and came out.   
4, 5, 6, I had -- almost made it; 7 almost made it again.  It was just kind of in that little groove.   
 Q.  The greens are small.  
JUSTIN SUH: They are.   
 Q.  So what is the premium?  Iron play or is it putting it in the fairway first?  
JUSTIN SUH: First fairway.  I mean, the rough, it's not easy to get it to the green from the rough.  But, yeah, the greens are really small.   
We're not having wedges into Pebble anymore.  From what I've heard before, they said Pebble is a short course.  There is a lot of driver and wedges.  That's not the case.  There are a lot of driver, a lot of 2-irons off the tee, and a lot of like 8-irons all the way up until 4-irons.   
They just got to be more specific with the yardage.  I think that's key for anyone in this field, just committing to the yardage.   
 Q.  You've got to the point where everybody talks about I just need to get to match play and then everything really starts.  
JUSTIN SUH: Uh-huh.   
 Q.  Was that your mindset?  Make sure you stay focused enough and made it there?  
JUSTIN SUH: Yeah.  I looked at the leaderboard a couple holes and I saw 144 was the number, around there.  At the time I think I was 2 or 1-over.  I'm like two shots away from the cut.   
At that time you're not really thinking about let's just make the cut.  Then you're diverting from your actual plan of how you saw holes the day before.   
 Q.  Yeah.  
JUSTIN SUH: For me, that's something I worked on in the past year, just focusing on the shot at hand and just going at it one shot at a time.   
 Q.  Kind of a semi home game for you.  
JUSTIN SUH: Uh-huh.   
 Q.  From San Jose.  How much Pebble Beach play have you had?  
JUSTIN SUH: Zero.   
 Q.  Really?  
JUSTIN SUH: Before this tournament I never came out to Pebble.  Spyglass I came out a bunch of times.   
 Q.  NorCal stuff?  
JUSTIN SUH: NorCal stuff, like NCGA, but Pebble, never.   
Yeah.  We're finally here.   
 Q.  Live up to its expectations?  
JUSTIN SUH: It did.  It did.  In the practice round I tried Tom Watson's chip; tried Tiger's little slice 3-wood on 18; I tried all of them.   
 Q.  How did you do?  
JUSTIN SUH: Not great.  Not great.  Not as good as they did.  But that's why they're in the history books.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT