U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2018
Justin Suh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A tough start for you today, doubled the first hole.  How did that happen?  
JUSTIN SUH: Hit it left, just left fairway -- it was like left first cut, and then I went 3-iron trying to get it back right, and it just caught on to the downhill slope, hooked it down into the trees, went under the tree, then I had a lie where there was the ball and there was this little hump in front of the ball, and there's no way I can get it underneath.  So hits the hump, comes back, hits the tree, comes back down, hit it to the front of the green in the rough, can't stop it from the front, hit it behind the green, and fortunately managed to one-putt from there.   
 Q.  How did you keep yourself in mentally when you have a start like that?  
JUSTIN SUH: It's just something I worked on this past year with Kevin Sverduk.  It was just really taking it a shot at a time and kind of forgetting about the past because there's nothing I can control with that.  But what I can control is the shot at hand, which is the shot I've worked on a lot.  That just showed today, whether it was a bogey or a birdie, it didn't matter on the next hole.   
 Q.  How did you turn it on on your back side?  From 12 on, you were lights out.  
JUSTIN SUH: I was just hitting good shots.  Just made some putts.  I think I was more committed to the yardage.  That's a little different here.  Just committing to a yardage than what I'm familiar with in San Jose, just going shorter, but committing to each shot really helped out.   
 Q.  Tell me about that run, 12 through 14.  Give me some highlights, how you made those birdies.  
JUSTIN SUH: So 12 is -- I crushed a drive down the middle and hit a 7-iron to 15 feet, a little slider, made that.  My left to right putts were really good today, so made that.  And the next hole, the par-5, I had 100 yards in to the hole, and it was a perfect number for me.  Just hit a full 58.  Almost went in.  Came back to five feet, and made that.  I had a chance on 16 for nine feet, missed that one, and missed one on 18 that lipped out unfortunately, but 17 had a good putt around 15 feet, 16 feet.   
 Q.  You've had success in a lot of amateur tournaments this summer; how does that get you ready, and do you circle this one on your calendar every year?  
JUSTIN SUH: It's one to look forward to.  It's one to end the year.  But all the amateur events, it helps me just prepare for big events.  You're playing with the best amateur field each and every week, and to see how they're doing and compare yourself to them, it feels like it gets you ready for big events, even professional golf.  When you see guys who are getting sponsor exemptions and they're finishing high, and you just know you beat them like last week or you play better, and it just shows how good amateur golf is these days.   
 Q.  Being in red numbers, how does that set you up for match play?  
JUSTIN SUH: It's more comforting than being in black numbers.  I don't know, Pebble is different.  It's tough.  But like today, it's just kind of taking it one shot at a time.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT