BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 7, 1998
Jim Boeheim
Todd Burgan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








COACH BOEHEIM: Just a tremendous defensive struggle.  I think the game turned - Jones did a tremendous job.  They got a couple of transition baskets in the second half.  I think we probably got a little tired.  In the second half I just thought it was one of those games, came down to who was going to make a couple offensive plays, couple of shots, they made a couple, and got control of the game.  But we played as hard as we could play these three days, and it has been a tough 14 days.  We have had a lot of games, and I am tremendously proud of the way my guys have played this stretch of 7 games in 14 days.  And, I think that this stretch has prepared us to be ready to play in the tournament, and we will see what happens there.


Q.  Can you talk about Rashamel Jones.  Did it come as a surprise to you that he was able to put up 17 points for them?

COACH BOEHEIM: I think he averaged 14 and 15 last year when he played, so, you know, he is a good player.  He is just, you know, hasn't been in the mix.  But, actually, it actually hurt.  He is a much better offensive player against their zone than Freeman is, so it hurt us to have him in the  game and not Freeman. But they did a good job finding him. We have to concentrate our zone with Hamilton and El-Amin. He did a tremendous job there. Our defense put us in a position to win.  Our offense lost the game for us.  We just didn't execute the way we have to and make some shots that we had to make during the game.  Our defense was fine.


Q.  Etan's injury bothering him?

COACH BOEHEIM: I don't know.  It is sore, but he played.  He was fine.  He did the best he could.


Q.  Your thoughts about -- what is your thoughts about the Big East and NCAA tournament; how is your team going to make out?

COACH BOEHEIM: Going in the tournament, there is a lot of good teams.  You just have to play well.  I think we are well prepared to go in and play with. I think our team is playing as well as we played all year.  I think Connecticut obviously has played well all year.  We are looking forward to the challenge.  It a lot better than last year's challenge.


Q.  Can you talk about what their defense did to your offense when Griffin hit the 3 pointer; then you went 8 minutes without a field goal?

COACH BOEHEIM: We just didn't execute as well as we needed to.  We just didn't respond to their pressure.


Q.  Todd, can you talk about at least the feeling is  different coming out of this year, absolutely know you are going through tournaments last year --

TODD BURGAN:  Repeat the question.


Q.  How does it feel -- I mean, you know you are going to the tournament; what is the different feeling there?

TODD BURGAN:  There is less pressure.  Really go out there and concentrate on each game, not worrying about if this game is going to get you in or knock you out of the tournament.  I think it was less pressure, so we just go out and concentrate on the game at hand.


Q.  Did you guys forget about this game or use it to build on for the tournament?

TODD BURGAN:  I think both.  You can use it for motivation, and, of course, get it behind you, because you have to move on.  The tournament is what is important, so you have to put business behind you.  You can use this game as motivation to go into the tournament.


Q.  Todd, what is it about UConn's defense that makes it so tough?

TODD BURGAN:  Today I think they had a lot of quick players out on the wings.  They did a good job of, you know, getting the ball back to the person with the ball.  Clock going down, we had to take some tough shots.  I think they worked together and just forced us to some tough shots when the clock was going down. 


Q.  Did you expect Ricky Moore defensively?  Were you thinking somebody bigger would be on you?

TODD BURGAN:  I thought coming into in the game they would play 2, 3, since it was successful at the game last year.  We played them on Kevin Freeman checked me, but he did a good job.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT