TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 5, 2020
Collin Morikawa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Collin, what was the biggest difference between today's round and yesterday's 71?
COLLIN MORIKAWA:   I was just a little more patient.  I never got ahead of myself, but it wasn't getting ahead of myself, it was just focus.  I let a bad shot on 17 yesterday and just a bad decision kind of get in my way, and it kind of bled through to the rest of the round yesterday.  I was just making sure I stayed focused throughout 18 today.
Q. When you shoot that 71 yesterday in the position that you're in going into the TOUR Championship, what were you thinking today as you took to the course?
COLLIN MORIKAWA:   Yeah, I think if I wanted a chance the next few days I had to play really well.  Obviously the leaders are great players and they're not going to let up.
I've got to make up shots.  I hope they make some pars instead of birdies, but I've got two more days.  I played really well today, and if I just keep that up, hopefully we'll be right around there.
Q. Did you have a number in mind when you came out today that you felt like you needed to get to?
COLLIN MORIKAWA:   Not necessarily.  I started off pretty well yesterday.  I just wanted to keep that start going.  Hit some really good shots, hit fairways.  It's just kind of when I make that turn and I get around 13 I kind of struggle.
Same thing today.  I was able to get away with a lot of pars, but I was missing greens and I had to make a lot of up-and-downs.  Hopefully we just kind of tweak some game plan strategies for the next two days coming down those holes and we'll have some better finishes.
Q. Since yesterday was your first competitive round at East Lake, did you learn something about the golf course yesterday that helped you today?
COLLIN MORIKAWA:   I wouldn't say I learned anything.  I did some pretty good prep work Tuesday through Thursday, but obviously fairways are really important out here.  You've got to be in the fairway or else you're going to have some pretty bad angles with the rough.
Pins are going to just get a little tougher, so fairways are kind of key the next two days.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT