THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 14, 2021
Collin Morikawa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Do you like the idea that you got some at-bats at Pete Dye course before going to the PGA at Kiowa?  You think it'll help you?
 COLLIN MORIKAWA:   Yeah, I think the biggest thing for me and I've realized this week is adjusting and learning how to read greens every week.  Some places I'll feel more comfortable than others, and those are the weeks that I don't have to think as much.
 This week I still, even after today I haven't figured out how to read these greens as well.  I think it's going to be a learning process.  Hopefully it does help me by the time we get back it Kiowa?
 Q. Are you going to play Hilton Head?
 COLLIN MORIKAWA:   I should be, yes.  I will be.
 Q. So before you go to the PGA, you go to Pete Dye course.  Kiowa I know is a little bit different from Hilton Head, different from here.  Are there some principles here and at Hilton Head that you think will translate over to playing Kiowa?
 COLLIN MORIKAWA:   I haven't played Kiowa.  I couldn't tell you what it looks like, a single hole out there.  So for me I'm going to have to figure out lines and everything.
 But green-wise I'll have to see that as well.
 Q. Do you like a golf course like this where you can do what did you on the back nine, could be just as easily some disasters, make five bogeys in a row or five or six birdies in a row?  Do you like that kind of course?
 COLLIN MORIKAWA:   I think you can really do that anywhere.  There are some courses where five, six bogeys in a row aren't going to happen, but the tougher the course are a little more fun you can have.  When you're on you're able to score, and if you're just lightly off like I was the first few days, bad scores are going to happen.
 Q. You mentioned being slightly off the first few days but then closed with 66, shoot 30 on the back nine.  Are you frustrated with the week?  Are you taking positives out of today?  What are your emotions after a roller coaster week like that?
 COLLIN MORIKAWA:   Yeah, I was a little frustrated after Friday and Saturday's round because my game feels good.  But like I said, I didn't figure out how the read these greens.  It's something that I'm going to have to learn as the weeks go on.  Obviously every course is going to be different, every green, grass is going to be different.  But I needed a little more prep on really figuring out my lines.
 After at least the back nine today, JJ and I were working together really well and was able to see some lines a little better.
 Q. They showed a graphic an Golf Channel of your finishes and the starts directly after your four wins.  It's a small sample size, granted, but your finishes in those tournaments haven't been up to your standard.  Is that a flukey, small sample size thing, or is that like it's indicative of it's draining to win?  What did you ascribe that to?
 COLLIN MORIKAWA:   I need to play better.  I think I really just need to -- I need to grind a little more after a win.  After a win I like to take a week off if it's possible.  And the couple weeks that I've had off, after the PGA I took a week off, after last week I had a week off, I was still sharpening things but not really trying to find something.
 I think the weeks where obviously you come up and show up and you're not finding something but you what's working are the weeks that you're going to play really well.
 And coming into this week he was just ho-hum, like everything felt really good.  I tweaked a couple things here and there, but I just got to grind a little more, and I look forward to that.
 Q. Some guys were expressing some concern with how firm 17 green is with that pin.  Thoughts on that?
 COLLIN MORIKAWA:   Yeah, good luck.  I mean, I thought I hit a great 51-degree wedge.  Landed yard and a half, two yards on, and I could barely find my ball mark.
 So I'll definitely want to watch the last few holes.  But should be interesting.
 Q. You had a pretty good day last year before the tournament got canceled and then this week.  Do you think this is a golf course that fits your game and you will have a chance to play well over the balance of your career and possibly contend out here?
 COLLIN MORIKAWA:   Absolutely.  I feel comfortable.  A lot of tee shots I feel comfortable.  I need to figure out how to hit a draw 3-wood off 2 because I was 0-4 this week, but promise you in a year I'll figure that out.
 Q. Off to Orlando?
 COLLIN MORIKAWA:   Yeah.
 Q. Enjoy.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT