CHARLES SCHWAB CHALLENGE
June 12, 2020
Collin Morikawa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Collin, 3-under par 67. If we can get some comments on your round, please.  
COLLIN MORIKAWA: Yeah, it was kind of an up-and-down round. I missed a few more greens today. Wasn't hitting lines as well. Made some good sand saves, made some good putts for par, and overall, it was a steady round. Just got to pick up little tee shots, find my lines, and we'll be fine from there.   
 Q.  Talk about what has really been working for you through two rounds now.  
COLLIN MORIKAWA: Yeah, when I put myself within that 175 to 125, 100 range, my game just feels really good. I feel solid. I feel like I can attack a lot of pins, and from there I've really just got to put myself in those positions in the fairway. But putting has felt great this week, short game has felt great, and yeah, everything feels really good.   
 Q.  Making your debut here at Colonial. Talk a little bit about this country club if you can.  
COLLIN MORIKAWA: Yeah, Colonial Country Club has been pretty special to me. The past few years I've been able to come on the Mondays for the Ben Hogan Award, so I've seen the course, seen each nine before I played all 18 Monday through Wednesday, but it's always going to mean a lot. Even though I didn't win the Ben Hogan Award, to be back here playing the tournament means a lot. Conditions are amazing, members are awesome. It's just a great course to be at.   
 Q.  Talk about playing with Zach. He's a two-time winner here. Were you able to sort of watch how he got around the course or learn anything from him with his knowledge here?  
COLLIN MORIKAWA: Yeah, playing with Bubba and playing with Zach, two completely different games, but they got the job done. I've been watching Zach for a while now, and it's cool to finally be able to play with him and get a couple rounds under my belt with him because he's so consistent. He hits that little push draw every single shot, and he knows what he's going to do. So he's an awesome guy. We had a lot of fun the past couple days, and it was a good pairing.   
 Q.  Last, an amazing streak to start your career as a professional in terms of made cuts. Talk a little bit about that consistency and what that means to you.  
COLLIN MORIKAWA: Yeah, to add to that, it means I'm doing something right. That mindset just can't go for making cuts, it's got to be going to win now, and that's where my mind eight is at. But in order to win you've got to make cuts. To have that consistency over the past year, especially not having any status last summer, to go out and winning, making the Playoffs, whatever, it means a lot, and obviously the goal is to reach Tiger, and if not beat him. It's going to be a great six, seven-year span. But for this week I've just got to focus on this week. I've got to focus on tomorrow and just really dial in every single day. Every single day is different, and yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT