CHARLES SCHWAB CHALLENGE
June 11, 2020
Collin Morikawa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Collin, 6-under 64 in your first round back in three months. How did it feel to get back out there and see some putts go in?   
COLLIN MORIKAWA: It was really nice. I hit a great tee shot, which always helps, off the first tee, or 10 tee for me, and then chunked a wedge shot, so reality kind of hit in, and then I had to remember how to play golf again. But no, it felt good. To finally come out here and play 18 holes with these guys, start our tournament, we're lucky. We're in a very fortunate spot to be in and sport to be in, so I'm happy, I'm glad we got off to a good start, and we've got three more days.   
THE MODERATOR: You've been on the PGA TOUR for about a year, got used to playing in front of those kinds of crowds, I'm sure. How was it different? I'm sure it was a lot like your college days with not any fans out there.   
COLLIN MORIKAWA: Yeah, it was kind of weird finding our own golf balls if we're in the rough, kind of looking for them. Hit a couple missed shots yesterday and had no clue where the ball was because the rough is up. For me it's normal. Nothing is too weird out here. It's like I'm just going out and playing another day of golf, and that's what makes it awesome is that we love it out here.   
 Q.  Anything you were working on during the break golf-wise, mental-wise, physically?  
COLLIN MORIKAWA: Yeah, you know, I got into some home workouts. I don't have a gym like everyone else does, but made do with what I had. But for the most part it was just kind of pick up where I left off from PLAYERS. I was trending in the right direction. My putting felt really good and my ball-striking, everything felt really good. When you take a break off like that, you kind of have to start fresh and remember what got you there. I picked up some key things that I still remember from a few months ago, and it worked today. I've just got to keep that going the next three days.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT