SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 11, 2020
Collin Morikawa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Collin, 2-under par. Happy with that result? You had some opportunities coming in. You took advantage of them with a 30-footer at 16. Had another chance at 17 and 18.  
COLLIN MORIKAWA: Yeah, it was a good day. It was a really solid day. 17 and 18, you know, those were two birdie chances that I had and just didn't convert. Still looking good for tomorrow. Right where I need to be to finish on top.   
I had a stretch in the middle of the round where I had some long putts and just tried to get away with par and I did, so happy how today went.   
 Q.  Did the wind lay down a little bit for you on the way in, and was it gettable here for 90 minutes or so this afternoon?  
COLLIN MORIKAWA: Yeah, there were some few holes instead of hitting like 5-irons from 150, you're hitting 7-irons. Just a little easier to control.   
Today there were some pin locations, especially on the front nine, those front pins that you could really take advantage. Didn't do a great job, but still some golf tomorrow.   
 Q.  Yeah. Tell me about final round and what are your thoughts?  
COLLIN MORIKAWA: Yeah, I'm right in it. I'm right there where I want to be. I'm going to need make some birdies. These guys aren't going to let up. Still a lot of guys kind of bunched around the leaderboard, so it's going to take a good number tomorrow, but I'm happy where I'm at.   
 Q.  Satisfied with the round today?  
COLLIN MORIKAWA: Yeah. I mean, it's still tough playing out here in the wind and everything, but I'm happy with the way I made some birdies down the stretch. Obviously 15 was a bad bogey, but it led up to birdie on 17 and 18, but it happens.   
I'm looking forward to tomorrow. I'm still right in it and where I want to be, so hopefully just get off to a good start tomorrow and see what happens.   
 Q.  What are some of the things you draw on when you put yourself in this position going into Sundays?  
COLLIN MORIKAWA: Yeah, I've put myself in this position a few times now and I feel comfortable. I mean, every single day I step out here I'm ready to just play golf. I'm not thinking about anything else other than just trying to make birdies.   
So I'm excited for tomorrow. This is where I want to be. I wanted to put myself in contentions these weeks, week in and week out, and I'm really excited.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT