BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 28, 2019
Collin Morikawa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Collin Morikawa back to the interview room.  You were here earlier in the week on Wednesday and we asked what are you looking forward to this week, and you said, "Well, I've got to win, otherwise I'm not playing on the FedExCup playoffs."  You've done that.  Just your thoughts on how you're feeling.
COLLIN MORIKAWA: I'm speechless.  It means everything to me.  I didn't know when this time would come.  Obviously when I had dinner with Justin Thomas, he told me that, we're going to have expectations, we're going to have goals that we're going to set.  And if you're good enough you're going to get there at some point.
But I didn't know when that timetable was going to be.  Obviously the way the summer started, I just kept pushing myself, keep doing better, keep shooting low scores and put yourself in those positions.
And after 3M, I felt really comfortable out there.  And today I felt exactly the same.  And I just needed to make a couple more putts, a couple more birdies.  And it comes down to a shot.
Troy still had an eagle chance at the end, and that can end it really quick.  And that can change a lot of things but I wanted to keep giving myself chances.  This win means everything to me, and to get into the playoffs is something special.
Q. Other than the playoffs, (indiscernible) the rewards and awards that come with winning -- obviously a two-year exemption, 300 FedExCup points, the title and check that goes with.  And some other starts in some big tournaments -- PLAYERS Championship, Sentry Tournament of Champions, the PGA Championship, et cetera, et cetera, plus the playoffs.  You've managed that in a pretty short period of time.  Exceeded your expectations or are you just beginning?
COLLIN MORIKAWA: I'm just beginning.  And obviously I'm going to keep pushing myself and keep setting new goals.  But the way I looked at this summer was these are opportunities I'm getting -- you know, thankful to these tournament directors and tournament boards for giving me these starts.  And let's learn as much as we can.
I think I putted myself really well from my fourth year, my senior year in college, and I'm going to be able to use that just going forward.  And I think I'm ready.  This proves that I am ready.  To get this first win off my back means a lot.  It's going to open just a lot more confidence and doors for me, obviously.
And we've just got to keep taking advantage of the opportunities.  I love being out here every single week.  It's so much fun, especially when guys are taking it low.  (Indiscernible) but everyone (indiscernible) super well out here.
And obviously there's going to be some courses that are tougher, and they'll be very fun.  But it's awesome when people are playing at their best and you're kind of just pushing right up against them.
Q. Talk about the last few holes.  Trying to get your first victory is a pretty emotional moment, I guess.  And you had the chance at 3M when Matt holed the putt on 18 green.  And you were kind of almost in a similar situation here, knowing what Troy's doing behind you, and you were down here in front of 18 and had the chance.  What were you feeling?  How nervous were you?  Was it the excitement?  What was the overwhelming feeling?
COLLIN MORIKAWA: I think, going back, I think I got out of rhythm a little on either 13 and 14.  I made birdie on 14, but on 13 my approach shot, I just wasn't trusting myself.  I wasn't taking my usual tempo, just got a little out of rhythm.
And when I got to 14 tee, I just did the exact same thing.  And I just told myself, okay, we've got a lot of left, a lot of birdies, I've made a lot of birdies on these holes, just keep it going.
So, when I got to 18, I knew it wasn't over; I at least had to make birdie.  Yesterday I hit driver.  Just awful decision.  Today I hit 2-iron downwind.  Hit a great 2-iron hit a great 4-iron into my approach shot, (indiscernible) exactly where my caddie and I wanted it to.
Just a little soft out there.  And start getting in.  Walking down, I knew it wasn't going to be easy, putt or chip or whatever I decided, and it was going to be -- I had to manage the speed really well.  And if I was going to miss, I was going to miss within a couple of feet, give myself an easy kind of putt at it.
But the putt, it actually broke the other way than what I thought.  I thought it was going to go more right and then straight, and it just kind of stayed left and just kept going to the left.  Yeah, the speed was on and that's really all I wanted to do to at least give myself a birdie chance.
Q. (Indiscernible).  Were you aware that they were out there and did you talk to them?
COLLIN MORIKAWA: I haven't talked to him.  I waved to him (indiscernible) a little bit.  (Indiscernible) take a little break.  (Indiscernible).  Took a break.  But it's (indiscernible) stuff that happens out here, especially this week, for them to come out for the weekend.
And that's what's awesome being out here, having them support me, having a bunch of fans -- whether it be Cal, there was some people from where I grew up.  Just a small place.  So it's kind of cool -- (indiscernible) people rooting me on, (indiscernible) to make some birdies and make it as exciting as possible.
Q. Shot on 7, did you see that out there?
COLLIN MORIKAWA: Which hole?
Q. 7, across the fairway?
COLLIN MORIKAWA: On 7.
Q. On the front nine.
COLLIN MORIKAWA: Which 7?  The par-3.  Every time -- I like looking around.  I like looking around me.  It's as beautiful a course as you can get.  I always look around.  I'm pretty observant what's around me.
It's hard because you look up and people are staring right at you, and that's what our job is, they're going to be looking at you.  I look at my girlfriend, my family out there.  It's cool.  It's awesome.
Q. Two birdies on the front nine.  Was that settling in or what was going on?
COLLIN MORIKAWA: First six holes were not too kind to me.  I think I made two birdies on those two.  And one birdie hole 6.  I think that's it.  I just didn't take advantage of getting good shots.
I hit really good shots on hole 3, par three.  Hit 15 feet or less every single day.  Just didn't make a putt.  I told myself I had to be patient, a lot of birdies out there.  Just keep it going.  When you get that stretch of eight, nine, 10, 11, 12, it's been really nice to me.  I kept my head down, kept going, and roll some in.
Q. You mentioned earlier that rest is one of the things that you've tried to learn being out here on TOUR.  How will you manage that over the next four weeks with Wyndham and the three playoff events?
COLLIN MORIKAWA: I have to take it week by week.  Obviously this has extended my week after Wyndham to another week.
I don't really know where this puts me.  But my purpose is to win next week.  Thankfully I played it before.  It's been a while since I played it.  Obviously it's going to play a little different.  But to get on a course finally familiar with a little bit, know some lines, and it's not going to be brand new to me, it's going to be a little easier.  I won't get in until late tomorrow.  Tuesday will be a grind, be able to rest on Wednesday.
It's going to be a lot of fun, the playoffs, it's what everyone is wanting.  And get up, ready for it.  I'm ready.
Q. Can you talk a little bit about this crazy stretch you're on?  I think it's two consecutive rounds (indiscernible), what keeps you going and (inaudible)?
COLLIN MORIKAWA: Rest and a lot of good food.  I think just have to focus on one shot.  If I get ahead of myself that's when it really gets out of hand.
And (indiscernible) on hole 13, that's when I have to take one step back, do everything a little slower and just relax.  But, yeah, I think this stretch of golf was -- I felt just to be ready.
It's not like I need to be out there just figuring out my game, what I need to do; I know what my game is.  I know how it works and I know how to play to my strengths for each golf course.
Obviously every single week is going to be a new test and you've got to figure out what holes are going to figure out and what holes aren't.
I mean it's a great feeling.  It's just something you want to keep building on.  And it's not just going to stop here.  It's going to keep you going and keep you going.
Q. Mentioned the Sentry Tournament of Champions, does it seem a little surreal that you and Matt Wolff are in college just a few weeks ago, now playing in one of the premier events in Hawaii.  Have you been there, played golf there, is it sort of surreal for you?
COLLIN MORIKAWA: It's amazing.  I'm so happy, joyous.  It's a joy out there.  (Indiscernible) out there.  And to be out there in Hawaii.  I think did we play -- no?  We played when I was really, really young.
I played when I was, like, really small, remember sitting on the wall, looking over 18.  So I've been there a lot of times.  That place means a lot.  It's going to be very, very special to be back out there.
I've got a lot of family out there.  And make it a couple of weeks, make it a little vacation, but it's going to be business.  That's where all the players are going to be and that's where I'm going to be.
Q. 16 was huge.  When you came back, made that putt on 17, can you talk about that putt a little bit?
COLLIN MORIKAWA: Start of 16 I hit a really good shot.  Exactly where I wanted it.  Landed on top of the slope.  Hit the putt and just trickled in.  Obviously a big confidence boost.
17, I hit it about 30 feet roughly.  And it looks (indiscernible) slope, but it's pretty far, got the mountain behind you.  Everything is right.  It's downwind.  When I hit it, I knew it was going to hit the hole.  If it was going to miss, it was going to be pretty far from the hole.  But when I hit it, I knew it was going to be a really good putt.  And it looked good the entire way.
When I go back to 3, the putt on 17, I lipped out.  I had a bunch of people text me, you've got it (inaudible).  Because I thought I was going to miss.  And for that to hit the hole, I got lucky there.  This one, I thought it was in the hole.  There's just -- was it too hard.  Hit the back of the cup.
Obviously a big relief.  But I had to go on 18, (indiscernible) 18 is not an easy hole.  I hadn't birdied it the first three days.  Thankfully the tee was up and I was able to hit my 2-iron and not have to rip driver through it.  And I hit a really good 2-iron.  And hit 4-iron exactly where I wanted.  And gave myself a little 2-putt for birdie.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT