BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2019
Collin Morikawa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Excellent start.  If we can get some comments on your round.  
COLLIN MORIKAWA: Yeah, I mean, yesterday I found some things with my driver, and that's where it's going to start.  You've got to hit fairways out here.  The rough is really long.  Got off to a really good start.  Made a stretch of four birdies in a row and was hitting it pretty good.  Back nine I didn't get anything going, and that happens.  Tomorrow is a new day, though.   
 Q.  Does this course feel long to you?  People were talking about how it's a big, brawny, long course.  
COLLIN MORIKAWA: Well, there's a few holes out here that are a stretch.  16 is a good, good par-4, especially if you don't take it down the left side.  But then there's some scorable holes.  9, 15, there's some holes that you've got to just take advantage.  You know, then the long holes you just get away with par and go on.   
 Q.  Does it kind of boggle your mind with the late start that you got this year that Rookie of the Year is actually up for grabs?  
COLLIN MORIKAWA: Yeah, it's kind of something that's definitely popped up just kind of out of the blue over the past month since I've got that win.  But yeah, it's definitely a goal of mine now.  I've got to play well here and make it to next week.  That's the only thing I've got to worry about.  I've got three more days, figure some things out, hit the ball a little straighter and keep making some putts.   
 Q.  Are you stressing about it?  
COLLIN MORIKAWA: No, that's not something that I'm going to worry about until everything is over.  I've got to worry about tomorrow.   
 Q.  But you've got a real legitimate start at East Lake, starting when you did, you've also got a two-year exemption and are going to Kapalua next January.  What's the difference of the drive under pressure, whatever you want to call it?  
COLLIN MORIKAWA: Well, I think the big thing is I got to pick my schedule and I'll be able to play some events that I don't always have to play.  The fall can be a little different.  I'll be able to hopefully get to Asia and all that.   
 Q.  Do you feel like you're playing with house money right now?  
COLLIN MORIKAWA: No, nothing is on house money.  I have goals -- just because I reached those goals for this summer, that doesn't mean I'm going to stop here.  I'm not satisfied with just ending my season here.  Obviously it's very fun, and I'm grateful to be here after the win, but it doesn't stop here.   
 Q.  Are you a guy that writes them down?  
COLLIN MORIKAWA: No, I just kind of -- I'll think through them, I'll talk them over with my coach, but goals are just going to keep resetting after things get checked off.   
 Q.  Just curious after Reno, did you reset?  Did you talk about others?  
COLLIN MORIKAWA: Well, I didn't talk about them with my coach, but I definitely put them in my head and I knew what was next.  Obviously making it to the TOUR Championship would be a big one.   
 Q.  Have you been to East Lake?  
COLLIN MORIKAWA: I have not.   
 Q.  What's after that if you get to East Lake?  
COLLIN MORIKAWA: A break.   
 Q.  Have you ever been top rookie in anything else?  Were you the top rookie at Cal or anything like that?  
COLLIN MORIKAWA: I won Freshman of the Year for Pac-12 when I was a freshman.   
 Q.  It's kind of old hat for you?  
COLLIN MORIKAWA: Yeah, it's something new.   
 Q.  Did they give you a trophy for that?  
COLLIN MORIKAWA: I don't know, they might have.  I think they did.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT