BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 28, 2019
Collin Morikawa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  It was quite an end to the day, wasn't it?  You've made things look easy.  Obviously it's not real easy to win a PGA TOUR event.  Take us through the putt on 17.  How hard was that and what was the emotion when it went in?  
COLLIN MORIKAWA: When I hit it, it was definitely firm, but I knew it was a good putt.  I looked back and I thought back out to 3, I'm on 17 when it lipped out.  This putt, I knew, when I hit it, it was dead center.  It wasn't too hard.   
And it was just, it felt good to make that putt, but obviously I had one more hole to play, and I wasn't, like, it was over.  There was a lot of points on the board left and I knew I had business to do on 18.  And I hit two, three good shots and was able to tap in for birdie.   
 Q.  You told me yesterday if you could win a PGA TOUR event it would mean everything to you.  When you were standing on that hill watching Troy's putt run by, what were your emotions?  
COLLIN MORIKAWA: Speechless, my heart was beating really fast.  It was just something I gotta get used to.  And to be in that position is what I've wanted to do all summer.  And to finally have the lead -- it was out of my control.   
And you don't always want that, but it was something really special to finally get the win.  And to have my family out here, my girlfriend and friends just makes this week so much more special.   
 Q.  What does this win do for you now?  The world opens up for you.  What do you think you have achieved?  
COLLIN MORIKAWA: I think the gates are open.  And I've been knocking on the door the past month or so and the game's felt really good.   
I think when I got to hole 13, the par-5, I kind of got out of my rhythm.  I didn't trust my shots, and I knew I was still in it.  It took me a couple holes, but once I got to 16 I hit a really good shot.  Just believed in myself and was able to hit some good shots and come through.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT