JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 14, 2019
Collin Morikawa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Officially locking up your TOUR card, how validating is that to be in contention week-in and week-out since your start?
COLLIN MORIKAWA: Feels really good.  That was obviously a goal was to kind of lock up a card for next year, and that's kind of what we're on the trend for, and it doesn't stop here.  I have two more starts at the Barracuda and winds ham really I want to get into those Playoffs and the only way I can do that is if I win.  I've played really eight good rounds the past two weeks but it's going to take another really good four.  I think my game is suited for those courses, and it's trending in the right direction, so I'm ready for that.
Q. A clean card over the last two rounds, how were you able to maintain that consistency when it came down to the wire?
COLLIN MORIKAWA: I was hitting really good shots, and I think when I was in the fairway, I was able to attack a lot of pins.  When I did put myself out of position, I played a little safer knowing that you can make 25-, 30-footers out here.
Iron play has felt really good throughout the entire week and just got to keep that up heading into the last few events.
Q. You called it a boring round, but I'd say it's a mature round, when you're hitting every green and not making the putts, how did you stay and not press and get yourself in trouble?
COLLIN MORIKAWA: I think from 4 to 8, I had some really good looks and none of those dropped.  But I think what I've learned from my tendencies is that speed can get a little off if that happens and I just have to focus on my speed.  If I was going to roll good putts, I was going to roll good putts.  I did hit a couple bad putts, but for the most part, it's one of those days where it's just half a ball too much or too little.
It's going to happen like that, but thankfully I was able to roll in a couple eagles and get the round solidified.
Q. The class coming out, how are you managing the high expectations and whatever you guys are dealing with now?
COLLIN MORIKAWA: I think we all believe in ourselves and I said that at the beginning of the week.  It's going to start from us believing in ourselves that we can do it and for us to come out on these first four, five events and have the success we've had, it proves to ourselves that we can do it.
It's no different.  It's just golf.  It's on a lot bigger stage but we're ready for it.  It's exciting to see everyone play well.
Q. Looking for that win to make the Playoffs, but knowing you've unofficially got your card, is there pressure off the shoulders?
COLLIN MORIKAWA: A little bit.  I had the confidence to know I was going to do it, but didn't know when it was going to be.  I knew it was going to take a low score today if I was going to move up.  Even wasn't going to do you good, and everyone was making birdies out there.
It feels really good and it's definitely a little weight off the back.
Q. Are you surprised you did it so quickly?
COLLIN MORIKAWA: No.  You know, a little bit, but not really.  I knew my game was trending in the right direction when I turned pro.  Obviously making it through sectionals was a huge confidence and then playing well at RBC to start everything off was just, you know, everything I could have wanted, and we're heading in the right direction.  It's just the tipping point of where we're getting started.
Q. It's been a whirlwind since everything got started.  Have you seen had a chance to really take a breath and soak any of this all in?
COLLIN MORIKAWA: No, not really.  I mean, I took a week off during Detroit and I want to just relax, and I think that was the best thing I could have done.  Next week I'm going to take a break, as well.  Even during that week, it's a lot of just rest.  It's just getting ready for the next week, getting your body healthy and eating a lot of food, so not really.
Q. You mentioned the fans, what have they been like, not just here but your first few starts?
COLLIN MORIKAWA: I think the coolest place was obviously at Pebble, being close to Cal, only a couple hours away.  So many fans and alumni out there kind of rooting me on, but even out here, these little kids, I haven't seen this many little kids at a tournament so far.  They just want to have fun, see us hit some good shots and go on, maybe grab a glove or ball.
Q. You were probably one of those little kids ten years ago.
COLLIN MORIKAWA: It's crazy.  What our class has to do is really just put ourselves forward and keep doing what we're doing.  We're all good guys.  We're all good -- we're young men, so we just want to be a role model for these little kids.  I think Matt's got a great smile.  Victor's got a great smile, me and Justin; we just have to keep that up, be who we are and play some good golf.
Q. How aware are you of what Jordan did here and in terms of getting his card and launching?
COLLIN MORIKAWA: Obviously a win never hurts, and you know, there's never a bad time to win.  So what he did was obviously really special, and that jump started his career.  I think the past two weeks have given me a huge boost.  I know last week for Matt was a big boost for him.  I think the rest of us in this class are obviously going to wait for that win.  Who knows when it's going to be, whether it's going to be next week, a couple weeks or a couple months.
But it will come.  We just have to keep doing what we're doing and plug forward.
Q. Is there something about this golf course that fit your eye?
COLLIN MORIKAWA: Yeah, I think the tee shots suited my eye.  There's a couple tee shots that didn't, and I just had to play a little safer off the tee.  But it's a second-shot golf course, and I knew that from the start, and that's what's been my strength so far.  If I just found the fairways and gave myself some irons, it was going to be a low score out here.
Q. Victor said he enjoyed the small town atmosphere here.  How did it suit you?
COLLIN MORIKAWA: Really cool.  I think people out here, really strong with what they love out here, and this week's really special for them.  I think it's really special for me.  I got to talk to Michael Kim earlier this week, fellow Cal alumni, and obviously a really, really cool week for him last year, and I think for me, this is always going to be a special place to come back to.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT