JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 13, 2019
Collin Morikawa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. This is becoming a habit, good play on the weekends.
COLLIN MORIKAWA: Thank you so much.  It's fun being out here, to finally compete with these guys is exactly what I've wanted to do, and no, I've been playing some really solid golf.  I've been putting the ball close to the hole and letting some drop.
Q. At this stage, is it more mental, physical?  It's a grind right now week in and week out.  How do you keep finding success?
COLLIN MORIKAWA: It's everything.  It's a lot of rest.  I kind of built a routine my senior year to get ready for this summer.  It's going to be a busy summer, and I knew that.  It's everything and more.  You're out here for many hours of the day.  You've got to just plan everything out.  You don't want to be out here too long, but I think the week I took off in Detroit really helped after nationals and everything leading up to that, so it's been perfect.
Q. You flighted a lot of irons today.  It really helps when you're hitting it tight.  It was a ball-striking wonder out there today.
COLLIN MORIKAWA: Yeah, it's been like that kind of throughout this entire summer.  I'm still kind of working on some putting things, but I'm hitting some good lines on my putts, and obviously when I get them close, I'm able to drop a few, so we've just got to keep that up for tomorrow and obviously a few more drop outside of that.
Q. Don't know what the gap will be, but same ol' same ol' tomorrow, pedal to the metal?
COLLIN MORIKAWA: Yeah, it's going it be a whole new day, but everything feels good with my game.  I'm going to keep doing what I've been doing and just take it one shot at a time.  It's going to start off on that first hole, hitting a good tee shot.
Q. Talk about today's round, obviously put yourself in pretty good position today.
COLLIN MORIKAWA: I felt good from the start of the day.  Obviously yesterday had a little stumble on 18, but once I hit the shot on 2, hit a good second shot and made myself set up for birdie, I knew it was going to be a good ball-striking day, and the entire summer has been like that.  I've hit a lot of good, close shots, and if I just kept that up, made some putts, it was going to be a solid day for sure.
Q. How did the course play today?
COLLIN MORIKAWA: It's getting a lot firmer.  It's really hot out there.  I think towards the middle of the round I had a little gust of wind, so I know that's when the leaders kind of teed off.
I think for tomorrow, it's going to kind of be the same game plan.  I've had a good game plan since day one here, and I've got a good caddie for me to kind of know where to miss and where to hit the shots.
Q. Good weekend last week and another start to a good weekend.  What can you bring from last week?
COLLIN MORIKAWA: I think just a lot of confidence.  It's a whole new week out here, which is for me what I had to grasp Monday and Tuesday was that I can't just go on cruise control out here and just expect that I'm going to make birdies.  I had to really refocus and think through everything.  But yeah, no, I knew it was going to be a whole new test, a whole new golf course.  The rough was up this week compared to last year.  I think last week was a lot of confidence heading into the rest of the summer, but I knew I had to regroup and focus on what I needed to do to play well this week.
Q. Is there a number you need to get to tomorrow?
COLLIN MORIKAWA: I'm not going to set a number.  I've got to take it one shot at a time and focus on that first tee shot tomorrow.  If I get ahead of myself, that's when I'm going to blink.  It's going to be the 15th hole and I'm going to be who knows where in the round.  Got to focus on that first tee shot tomorrow.
Q. After your great finish last week, did you wonder personally how you would respond to that and how you would carry it over to another round?
COLLIN MORIKAWA: Yeah, I think on Monday I got a little too comfortable.  I was a little tired.  And then Tuesday I really had to focus and regroup for Thursday.  It was going to be a completely new golf course that I've never seen, different conditions, obviously, and I knew from day one out here I was going to have to make a lot of birdies.  Guys are going low.  So yeah, it was -- yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT