BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 26, 2019
Collin Morikawa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Start with a little recap of your round today.  
COLLIN MORIKAWA: It was early, early morning, waking up from yesterday.  And got off to a really good start.  I hit a really good tee shot off 15 and stuck one like 3, 4 feet.  So I knew it was going to be a good day.   
And I kind of kept that momentum going into the start of the second round.  And obviously with a kind of weird gap of 30 minutes, you can kind of get a little lazy.  You can get a little tired.  But I made sure I stayed awake.  Got some food in me.   
And started off really strong to start that back nine.  And I was hitting some good shots throughout the round.  I just really didn't get the right numbers and that's going to happen out here.  Fortunately it was a day, I was still hitting it okay.  So I got some miss it in the right spots.   
But it's going to be, tomorrow I'm just going to trust my numbers again just like I did today, and hopefully we'll just calculate a couple of them a little closer to the hole and get some putts rolling.   
 Q.  Do you feel like you're getting closer to really hammering down those numbers as far as the elevation goes?  
COLLIN MORIKAWA: I think yesterday I felt fine.  Today I still felt okay, I think, with some of the wind.  Just a lot of swirling winds, whether it goes from right to left down or right to left into.  And it's going to happen a lot with the trees and elevation.   
I think we feel fine.  Assuming we're going to be somewhere in the afternoon tomorrow.  I'm going to have to stick to that kind of 10 percent, and the ball's gonna keep flying out there.  So, just gotta trust what I'm doing and stick to that.   
 Q.  Changing gears a little bit here.  What would you say one thing, favorite thing you've come to realize since you've been on tour about being on tour?  
COLLIN MORIKAWA: About being on tour?  Just people watching out here.  It's cool to have people just kind of following us, if they have some relation to whether it's from where I live or whether they went to Cal.  It's kind of cool just seeing people root you on and just young kids following.   
But out here the course are the best conditions you could ask for.  We've got some of the best pin locations, some of the best greens.  And to finally compete out here with some of the best players, it's all I could ask for.  And to be playing well is very exciting.   
 Q.  What would you say is the most surprising thing you've learned since you've been on tour?  
COLLIN MORIKAWA: Just can't take anything for granted out here.  When you can make the cut, you can make the cut at the number and then take it really deep and move way up the leaderboard.  One shot is going to matter a lot out here.   
And these guys don't quit, if they're having a bad day.  You've got to make something out of a bad day.  And that's kind of today.  It wasn't a bad day, but it's something that you just make your points, get some points out of it and move on to the next two rounds.   
 Q.  When you were finishing off your morning round this morning, I noticed you knocked it down right in front of 18 green.  Was it disappointing not to make birdie there, and what kind of happened there?  
COLLIN MORIKAWA: Yeah, I had about 40 yards, just wanted to pitch a little pitching wedge, run it up there.  And the pin tucked so far back, these greens are kind of spongy.  They've got some weird bounces, so I didn't want to play too aggressive.   
And 18's kind of a weird green.  Where that pin was in the second round was just some of the softest part of the course out there.  So it was tough not to birdie those either of the rounds, but it happens.  I've got two more days to kind of keep going at the par-5s and we'll see what happens.   
 Q.  Finishing up round two this morning on the front nine, a string of pars and then finally a little tap-in birdie at the last.  How difficult was it to stay patient there on that incoming nine?  
COLLIN MORIKAWA: I knew I didn't want to force anything.  And I've learned that just throughout playing golf the past few years that when you've got 20-footers, yeah, you can make them, but you don't want to force them and leave yourself with 4, 5 feet left.   
My speed wasn't great today from outside of 30 feet, but I was able to make a come-backer.  So I knew if I just gave myself some wedge shots we'd get one close.  And thankfully I hit it a little far on the ninth hole and got out of the rough, and hopefully -- thankfully had a tap-in which was really nice to finish off the round.   
 Q.  How tough was that coming back early in the morning to finish that round and then play another round right away?  
COLLIN MORIKAWA: The way the wind was going yesterday before the rain came, it was only going to help me on 15, 16, 17, 18.  So I was a little disappointed not to head out there, but I knew a lot of good things was happening from yesterday.   
I just wanted to put a good tee shot out there.  Hit a lot of three woods on the range, and had a perfect number with a cut 7-iron on 15, and just hit exactly how I wanted.  And just kind of kept that going for the rest of the day and happy.   
 Q.  How do you relax tonight, get ready for tomorrow?  
COLLIN MORIKAWA: Just a lot of sleep.  Get some good food in me.  The rest of my family is coming out here to watch this weekend, so it should be really fun.  But, yeah, just really get some rest and get a good dinner and relax for tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT