TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 21, 2019
Collin Morikawa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Collin, a big week for you, and you're obviously not too distracted by nerves or anything like that.  Playing really good through 36 holes.  Just a few comments.  Just recap how you're feeling, how you're playing.
COLLIN MORIKAWA: Yeah, I think at the beginning of the week when I had that earlier press conference with all the other guys I just wanted to feel comfortable.  It's crazy when I think back at RBC.  Like I was comfortable from the start.  I think being out here for three weeks in a row now has made thing a lot easier.
When I played the practice round Tuesday I felt really good.  Tee shots and approach shots into greens all kind of fit my eye.  Yeah, I've kind of just made my way, made birdies from the start to finish, and hopefully keep that up the next few days.
Q. Did you come in with kind of a benchmark, a certain number you wanted to hit, or are you more one that just does the best you can and takes what you get?
COLLIN MORIKAWA: Yeah, no, I'm just trying make as many birdies as I can out there.  I bogeyed the par-5, 6, which you really can't do.  I haven't played the par-5s great out here.
Yeah, I'm just taking it hole by hole, seeing how many birdies I can make.  There are a lot of opportunities out there.  I've kind of got some bad weather the first couple days, so hopefully the weekend will be good.
Q. Talk about nerves, being here, any walls that you've gotten over.
COLLIN MORIKAWA: Yeah, no, I mean, I love it.  This is what I've wanted to do the entire time since I've been a little kid.  Just coming out here and living my dream.  It's so much fun being out here.  I'm just taking everything in and learning everything I can.
Obviously each week is really different based off conditions, course.  Today the wind switched completely on us.  Kind of just have to make adjustments for what's to come, and we'll see what tomorrow is like.
Q. The players you've played with the last couple weeks, has there been anyone that you've picked their brains for advice, or are you a guy that just figures it out yourself?
COLLIN MORIKAWA: Yeah, I had dinner with Justin Thomas, practice round with Rory and Justin Rose.  Even though I played just five to nine holes with those guys, it was kind of just asking them little things.  You know, when they're out there they make it look so s easy.
I think that's what college golf was kind of like.  It was kind of we got to a point where you played the same courses every single week; got used to the surroundings and the territory.  That's what I want to do out here.  Obviously a lot of the guys have played a lot out here, and every course for me is pretty new.
I've got a veteran caddie on the bag so it's really good.  But, yeah, no, I feel comfortable out here.  Like I said, two more days, and the first two days felt really good.
Q. Do you like the fact that the last week you've played with PGA TOUR players and you're breaking away from college guys?
COLLIN MORIKAWA: Yeah, it's cool to see all the guys I've seen on leaderboards, but they're all trying to play golf and play their best.  It's not worrying about anyone else other than myself really.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT