U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2017
Collin Morikawa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Okay, 6 and 5 winner over Blake Collyer from Australia.  Probably not as easy work as the 6 and 5 sounds, right?
COLLIN MORIKAWA: No, it's never easy.  All the players that made it out here are fantastic players.  You know, I knew it was going to be a good test no matter what.
I was able to make a lot of pars and kind of take advantage of his errors today.
Q. There are a lot of guys here this week.  (Regarding Walker Cup.)  You don't really know how the team is shaping up, what's it like playing with that pressure?  How relieved are you?  You're pretty much a lock now.
COLLIN MORIKAWA: Yeah, nothing is guaranteed.  Throughout this entire year you pretty much focus on whatever tournament is next.
This week you can't think about what's going to happen on Friday, Saturday or even tomorrow afternoon.
It's really one match at a time.  Golf is about each shot.  Tomorrow is just about the next match.
So hopefully in a couple weeks I'll be back out here for that Walker Cup, and that would be something special.  For now, you can't put that extra pressure.  It's something cool you can think about later if you make the team.
It would be an honor to represent the USA, but for now it's just my next match.
Q. Counting the birdies.  You made two birdies.  So it was just about playing solid golf and not really making mistakes and letting the other guy make them.
COLLIN MORIKAWA: Yeah, no, it was really steady golf.  I missed a couple fairways but I was able to hit some greens.  I had a few birdie opportunities, couple others, but they just didn't roll in.
Hopefully tomorrow I'll roll couple more.
Q. How many times have you played Riviera before?
COLLIN MORIKAWA: So first time was earlier in the summer.  Since I knew the U.S. Am was going to be out here I contacted some donors and I was able to get out here.
I haven't played it that much.  Growing up out here in L.A. you would think I would be able to get out on these courses.  I've kind of grown up in a small little area.
It's a great course.  Everything that everyone said about it is fantastic.
Q. Did you ever go to the TOUR event out here?
COLLIN MORIKAWA: No, I haven't.  So, you know.
Q. Never stepped foot on the property?
COLLIN MORIKAWA: No.  Never stepped foot on the property.  I've watched it on TV and seen the place.  Know certain things about certain holes.  It's good to have a couple extra rounds out here and couple extra looks.
Q. How about family and friends?  Good group out there with you today?
COLLIN MORIKAWA: Not many.  You know, my parents, they're hoping they'll be able to come out for the weekend.  They're all supportive and I know all my friends -- I've gotten a lot of texts here and there just knowing I'm out here.
Whether or not they're out here I know they're watching.  It's pretty cool just to be out here in Los Angeles.  You don't get that many events out here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT