MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY AIG
June 22, 2001
Laura Davies
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LAURA DAVIES:   No. 10, I hit 3-iron down the middle and an 8-iron.  We hit the wrong club.  We were right between because the wind was swirling.  Came up about 50 feet short and I hit the first putt a little weak, probably an eight-foot second putt.  I thought I made it but it just didn't break like I thought it would.  Not a very good start.  But came straight back on 11 with 3-iron, 3-iron wedge to about four feet for birdie there.  Then didn't make another birdie, I don't think until  -- 18, yeah.  I hit a 3-iron off the tee and an 8-iron.  Must have been about 15 to 18 feet and made that.  Birdie on number  -- the par  3.  Hit an 8-iron again, seems like the club of the day to about four feet on the par  3 and made that one.  Then a birdie on No. 7.  Hit a 1-iron off the tee and 7-iron to about 20 feet just pin-high left and made that.

LAURA DAVIES:   Yeah, 8-iron is coming into play.  Yeah, the course is giving up some birdies still.  It's just playing shorter.  It's as simple as THAT.  They pushed a few of the tees back from years gone by, but the fairways are really, really fast and if you hit a nice, solid driver or a solid iron, it's running an extra  -- years gone by, it's just hit-and-stop and it's not doing that this year.

Q.  You are out there playing a pretty good round, and then Karrie  -- you're playing with her.  Is that just the nature of the beast right now when she is playing well?

LAURA DAVIES:   Yeah, I mean she was hitting really close she was driving it really long again and she is hitting sand irons really close.  When she has had longer clubs in, she has not been quite so accurate, but she hits that driver so straight, it's unbelievable.  She's making it look very, very easy.  It's fun to watch.  There's nothing I can do about what she does.  I can only try and get better myself.  11-under is not going to win this tournament, so I've got to go and shoot, at the very worst another couple of 67's, I would say, to even be close to her.  I mean, you can never tell.  The wind could change, the toughness of the course, pressure.  Anything is possible.  But it's just very, very solid and fun to watch.

Q.  Yesterday you told us that this course and her game were a good match.  We didn't follow up on that very well, I think.  Why is it a good match?

LAURA DAVIES:   Because she's a very strong ball striker.  Anyone who hits it in high  -- because they can really hide some of these pins.  For instance, No. 7, she hit driver, sand iron to a really tucked pin.  Because I only hit 1-iron off the tee, I could not even go for the pin.  I birdied the hole as well, but much harder; I had to hit a 7-iron just left off the hole.  She is long and straight and hits the ball high and that's a perfect combination.  That's why I've done so well around here, and Kelley Robbins, Juli Inkster, they are all high ball hitters.

Q.  The putting, I watched some players putt today and they missed some putts I thought maybe they could make  --

LAURA DAVIES:   The greens were superb again, as good as they have ever been.  Another reason they are so good, the weather here, they have had some atrocious winters.  The greens have never been quite as good as they are this year and they are just rolling.  I think that's helping with the good scoring.

Q.  You must be feeling good going into the weekend.  Is it excitement?

LAURA DAVIES:   No, I'm looking forward to it.  I was hoping I could birdie the last and maybe have a chance to play with Wendy again because she's the kind of player you want to see what's happening because you want to be close enough.  Let's face it, Sunday afternoon, if you are within three, you'll have a great chance.  I hope the next 27 holes I don't lose any more ground than the four I already am, really.  It's anyone's game, really.  Whoever makes the putts, whether it is Karrie or anybody else up there in the lead.

Q.  You only birdied one of the six par 5s. 

LAURA DAVIES:   It's amazing really.  I hit No. 16, I hit a driver around the corner.  I only had a 6-iron in my hand and hit the most beautiful 6-iron, but it pitched short of the green, which is what you had to do and it inexplicably ran through the back in the worst lie and give get up-and-down.  9, I hit a monster drive around the corner 3-iron around there, a really poor shot but well within range. And birdied No. 11, with 3-iron 3-iron wedge.  So, the two times I'm aggressive I get nothing for it and the time I just play it, boom, boom, birdie.  So what does that tell you? (Laughter.)

Q.  Four strokes isn't much at all with 36 to play.  Is it more when Karrie is sitting at the top and the way she is playing? 

LAURA DAVIES:   It's great that it is her, because not only if you win, you're going to win a major.  You're going to beat one of the best players who has ever been.  So, that's fine by me. If she keeps playing like she's playing, I tell you, she's going to win, as simple as that.  Nothing I can do about it or anyone else, unless you go very, very low.  But it's fine.  You can only play your own game, and if she's better on the week, then that's just the way it is.  But it's  -- you know, it's great for us to all be chasing such high standards. 

Q.  Given the success you've had here, though, does that confidence that you've built on this course over the years help you going into the weekend?

LAURA DAVIES:   Absolutely.  Like I said, if I'm within striking distance Sunday afternoon, I've got as much chance as anyone because I have won around three times here and the one time I finished second, I pretty much threw it away on the 16th.  I've had real success around here and I've got great memories of every single hole.  Every hole has been kind to me.

Q.  Do you think Karrie is better than you at your best? 

LAURA DAVIES:   Difficult to say.  Difficult to say.  I know when I'm  -- I think actual ball-striking, when I was at my very best, I was slightly better.  But overall game and consistency, I don't think there's ever been anything better than Karrie and Annika, really.  Like I said the other night in the interview  -- and the question is who is the best, it's very hard to pick one.  If I have to pick one, it's just Karrie, but Annika, as well.  On my day, my ball-striking is better than any of the other girls purely because of the strength factor. 

Q.  What is striking distance for you?

LAURA DAVIES:   Well, if you are within three or four on Sunday on the 10th tee, I would say you're in with a crack.  Whoever is leading could drop a few.  You could have a really low nine.  Rosie shot 30 on the back nine today.  I know she had a hole-in-one, which makes it a bit of help there, but anything is possible around that nine.  You've got the two par 5s, and, in theory, 11 is reachable, though it is very long. 

Q.  Can we expect to see these low scores? 

LAURA DAVIES:   I pretty much doubt they will be as low as this.  Like I said if Karrie keeps hitting it as long and straight as she is so far, then she might get to 16-, 17-, 18-under.  But everyone always overestimates on the weekend what someone is going to go and shoot.  But I would suggest that 14-, 15-under would be an attainable score for anyone else.  If she gets going, then no one else has a chance. 

Q.  People seem to be  -- I don't know if it is accurate to say answering her, but they seem to be keeping her in sight. 

LAURA DAVIES:   I heard what Wendy said.  You know, we've got to raise our game.  We've got to get better, and, you know, there's some really good players just hanging around in the wings.  If Karrie and Annika slip  -- they are not that far behind anymore.  Although, they are just that bit more consistent than the rest of us, you know, there's some very, very good ball-strikers out there who are ready to take up the challenge.

Q.  Karrie has got that personality where she doesn't seem to get too excited over a birdie or too down about a bogey?

LAURA DAVIES:   She never makes a bogey; how do you get down? 

Q.  Is that part  -- do you think that's part of the whole thing? 

LAURA DAVIES:   That's part of the whole thing.  She doesn't get agitated.  Like you say, she doesn't get that excited.  People criticize her for not having an idiot grin on her face all day.  That's her.  She's just doing what she does best in her own way.  I admire her for not walking around smiling like a clown all day.  Whenever someone gets on her about that, it really irritates me.  That's why she's good. You never really know what she's shooting. 

Q.  What are you doing to get better? 

LAURA DAVIES:   Well, just hoping  -- I'm just letting my confidence level grow.  I mean, I hit a really bad shot into the last hole today that was  -- I've got to get rid of those bad shots.  That's the easiest birdie.  I should have birdied the last and I didn't.  I just have to try and get more consistent and be confident over the ball.  I'm trying to not have negative thoughts over the ball, which is the hardest part. 

Q.  When you see Karrie, you acknowledge the consistency that she and Annika have.  Do you look back at your own career and regret that you were not able have that week-to-week?

LAURA DAVIES:   Not really, because I'm a different sort of character.  I don't stand on the range for hours and putting for hours in the evening.  They put the extra time and effort.  My personality  -- I'm just not one for that sort of thing.  I more have the natural side of it .  They have the natural ability, also, but they work incredibly hard.  It is amazing how much time and effort they put into it.  I haven't got the mentality for that.  That's why it's always:  Missed the cut, win; always been a bit of a mixed bag.

Q.  If you had the mentality to try to regiment your game, do you think that would actually work for you now?

LAURA DAVIES:   I think it would work against me, because I would just get fed up with it.  I play a lot more tournaments than these other girls.  I play about 35 a year, and the reason I can do that is because I don't stand beading balls on Mondays and Tuesdays and go to practice rounds and practice after the rounds.  I'm more of a tournament player than a practicer.  I like turning up at the event, playing the Pro-Am and then getting into the business side of it. 

Q.  Would you describe yourself as just a feel player? 

LAURA DAVIES:   Total feel, yeah.  When things are good, and when my mind is strong, that's when I'm at my best, because it all comes from picturing something.  If I picture a bad shot, that's when I'm starting to struggle.  Now I'm seeing good shots, which is a huge break.

Q.  There's not many people like you anymore.

LAURA DAVIES:   Probably not.  Most people, all of these regimens they go through  -- which is fine.  I admire them for it.  I don't do it.  Never have been able to it.  And I don't think I would have been a better player if I had been like that because it just doesn't fit in with my personality.

Q.  Do you have time to go to Atlantic City after this? 

LAURA DAVIES:   Absolutely not.  We go there next week.  Otherwise, you might have been spot on. 

Q.  Curious, with Karrie and Annika playing that thing at Bighorn with Tiger and David Duval, you played that thing in Asia, the Super  --

LAURA DAVIES:   The Johnnie Walker. 

Q.  The Super Challenge?

LAURA DAVIES:   Four days of tournaments in four different countries in six days, and we went to Malaysia and Thailand and that was with Vijay and Ernie Els and Brian Watts was there.  Three or four from the Asian Tour were there.  I was off the same tee so that was  --

Q.  Could you talk about that experience, and also, what you think about this mixed-team match they are going to have?

LAURA DAVIES:   I love the thing I did.  Like I said, I was mixing with those guys, and they are such nice players, as well.  Jesper Parnevik was another one.  It was fun to play from the same tees at them.  I did really badly.  It was at a stage where I was putting horrendously.  I think it is great that the girls are playing with Tiger and David Duval.  It's the sort of thing I would love to play in.  I'll be watching it.  Hopefully we'll get it in England the coverage of it.  It should be fun.

Q.  Do you think it is better off than had they tried to put Tiger against Annika?

LAURA DAVIES:   I don't think anyone is out to prove anything.  It is just a fun event and hopefully everyone will enjoy it.  And the winner is going to get a lot of money and it will be fun for everybody.

Q.  Do you think people will be watching it  -- general mainstream public thinking that there is something to be proved out there and whether the LPGA will measure up? 

LAURA DAVIES:   We're never going to be as good as the men because we are not strong.  But when you have the likes of Annika and Karrie, pound for pound, they can take Tiger and Duval on, if it was the boys against the girls sort of thing.  But it's nice that it is on this thing where they have actually got a partner and they are alongside one of the guys.  I think there's nothing to be proved because these are the very best of our game and they are the very best of their game.

Q.  How far behind were you off the tee? 

LAURA DAVIES:   Well, Vijay was very long.  I've played with John Daly quite a few times and there's no comparison.  As hard as I can possibly hit it, he's got me by 100 if he wants to be.  If I hit it 270  -- you hear about Tiger hitting it 370.  There's no comparison.  They are just that much stronger.

Q.  Who would you lay money on that match? 

LAURA DAVIES:   I don't know.  I think  -- I don't think you can ever bet against Tiger, but I don't think Duval and Annika -- is it Tiger and Annika?  I think it will be a tough match.  They will probably be the favorite, just because Tiger is involved. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT