U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2000
Laura Davies
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 LAURA DAVIES: Yeah, I think I pretty much agree with that sense. I wouldn't say I'm the
favorite by any means, with the way Annika is playing and Webby and Beth herself. She
could be winning a tournament very, very soon no reason why it shouldn't not be this. One
if you're a good ball-striker and you hit -- you don't have to be long, but you have to be
long enough. And there's a few holes out there, like No. 3 is reachable for the long
hitters. No. 8 is certainly reachable, if the wind isn't down. Yesterday was downwind,
today, it was in. But it's an open course, and normally you expect trees, not so much
water, because that's not traditional golf, but I was surprised -- pleasantly surprised
when I saw it, I have to say. My kind of golf course, definitely. 
 
 LAURA DAVIES: Just frustrating. I feel like I'm playing well enough. I feel like I'm
putting well, but you're just not getting the result. Last few weeks, I finished 35th,
44th the week before that. I've had two wins this year, which is obviously the bright
side, but I feel like I'm better than the middle of the field after the cut has been made.
Last cut I missed was the Open last year, so, you know I feel like everything is good, but
it's not quite good enough. 
 
Q. Can you talk a little bit about playing with Michael Jordan today, and just the
whole circus that surrounded him, I noticed on the last hole, there was all the screaming
and yelling right in your ear?
 
 LAURA DAVIES: Yeah, that is his life all the time. I think it would be fun for a while,
but I think it would get you down after that little while is over, because you know, he
can't get -- I mean, it was -- it was kids and they wanted to see Michael. But I asked
him, I said, "Is it like this wherever you go?" And he said, Well, I tend not to
go places because it can get ridiculous with people screaming at him all the time. I don't
think you can ever feel sorry for someone like him, but it must be weird to not be able to
go and play golf without that kind of attack. He was really nice. It's always been my
ambition to play golf with Michael Jordan; so that's one of my ambitions out of the way.
Wish I could have played 18. That would be nice.  
 
Q. Two years ago you had a share of the lead after the first round, and you mentioned
how you were a nervous wreck, is that still part of your makeup? 
 
 LAURA DAVIES: If I'm in contention come Sunday, I'll be nervous. I've never made any
pretense about that, but that's why I've won 60 tournaments. If you're not up for and not
nervous, you don't win, in my opinion. You can't go around blase about every single thing
because it doesn't work out for you. That's the way it's always been and I'm happy to be
like that.  
 
Q. How do you feel about the tournament being the same week as the British Open, the
fact that you guys are sharing the stage with the British Open, and this being the major
tournament for the women?
 
 LAURA DAVIES: Well, five hours -- I mean, it's a good few miles difference. No one
could have done a better tournament gallery-wise. I'm okay. I haven't got a lot of problem
with it. There's a lot of people here watching us. Obviously, there will be great interest
over there, but I understand it will be the best coverage we've had all year, anyway, even
though it is going on. If they were close to each other, then it would be a massive
problems, like both British Opens, but not with 4,000 miles in between. 
 
Q. Can you talk about what happened last two rounds at the LPGA Championship? A course
that you've always played well was that particularly disappointing? 
 
 LAURA DAVIES: It was. And I thought I played my way out of it Saturday, and then Sunday
afternoon, I reached the winning score. I was at 3-under, which won the tournament, and at
the time, Juli was 8-under. I never imagined that would be good enough to win, but I
3-putted and then missed another putt on the next hole. And that's been the story of the
year; whenever I've been in contention, I've made stupid bogeys. Certainly, if I shot a
couple under from that point, I'll win the LPGA Championship, but it went the other way
and I made two bogeys. 
 
Q. How much do you think it's helped the women's tour as a whole to have someone like
Karrie start out as well as she did, and then it seems like everyone else has picked up
their level of play, too. Would you agree with that statement or not, and if so, do you
think that benefits the TOUR?
 
 LAURA DAVIES: Oh, definitely. You need some serious competition, and now we've got it.
You know, I think after six weeks of the TOUR this year, everybody pretty much thought the
Money List and Player of the Year was decided, but obviously Annika has decided to pick up
the something and now it's neck-and-neck again. So that's definitely good for the rest of
the field. The sponsors are going to want them playing, there will be more interest in the
game, and that's good for everybody. I know Juli is having another good year. If she wins
this week she'll be in the mix, as well. So it's good for the Tour, definitely.  
 
Q. How is your putting right now?
 
 LAURA DAVIES: Well, I feel like I'm hitting lots of good putts and they are not going
in. All you can do is hit a good putt; so I'm just going to keep doing that. I got a new
putter and I've started rolling them in again. It was slightly different, center-shafted
and now I'm lipping in more than lipping out. Just got to keep trying things, keep being
patient, keep hitting the ball well, and good things will happen eventually. No point in
getting down about it because it's just going to make things worse. 
 
Q. The new putter is a center-shafted one? 
 
 LAURA DAVIES: Yeah, instead of the other type, and the minute I picked it up, I know I
liked it. Got my eyes further over the ball, and while I was waiting an hour or so to come
in here, I've been putting and I've made quite a few. I always feel like that's the thing
for me. If I putt well, I'm in contention, and if I don't, then I'm out of it; so I have
to make some putts. These girls are just too good now. 
 
Q. In your practice rounds, how have you found the rough here? Is it something you can
manage? 
 
 LAURA DAVIES: It's hard. I had my back on No. 8, a little match on the front nine
there, and hit a drive down the right-hand side and tried to move it probably further than
I would have done in a normal practice round, and it just really grabbed hold of my back.
And it's not too bad, but certainly, I know it's there, definitely. So you need to keep
out of the rough. I don't need to hit driver. The course isn't very long. Keep it in play
and hit a lot of greens. I think if you hit greens in regulation, you might win. 
 
Q. That was going to be my second question. When you put the driver away, do you
strategize that again or is it going to change?
 
 LAURA DAVIES: This course is slightly different, because if you miss the fairway you're
just in the rough; whereas, around this golf course it was out of bounds everywhere. It
was a really tight golf course. I'll go with driver on the par 5's. And so far, the only
driver I'll probably hit on the par 4's is No. 9 because that's a genuine par 4. That's a
good hole.  
 
Q. You've never been a great one for practicing, but with what Annika has done and
Karrie has done, has that made you rededicate yourself?
 
 LAURA DAVIES: I'm not much about rededicating. I've all been pretty dedicated to the
game and to my career. I am practicing more, though, I made no secret about it. I'm
chipping and putting a lot more because I think I'm not good enough now; whereas, before,
I always felt like I was always good enough to be one of best players. But now, because
they are doing what they are doing, I'm not good enough anymore and I need to be better,
and as it turns out, practice is the only way I'm going to get better than I was. So,
yeah, I'm hitting a few more shots. 
 
Q. How many more shots are you hitting?
 
 LAURA DAVIES: Not a huge amount. Like I was on the range yesterday, and probably I've
been on the range more Tuesdays this year than in my whole career put together. I would
turn up at a Pro-Am and start on Wednesday, but this year, I'm starting on Monday and
Tuesday, hitting shots and getting a feel for the course. But I'm hitting a lot more
shots. But not ridiculously. I would never spend a day out there. (Laughter.) I've already
become too professional. (Laughter.) 
 
Q. A player like Juli, playing as well as she has, with the majors she's won and just
turning 40, is that an inspiration for players 35 and older, the way she has played? 
 
 LAURA DAVIES: You just can't think of Juli as a 40-year-old. She's one of the nicest
girls out here, so much fun. So age doesn't really come into it as far as I'm concerned.
The inspiration part of it how much fun she has and how she's doing that is how you want
to do it, with big smiles and dancing across the green, and that's the part about it that
I like, the fact that she's 40 is pretty irrelevant.  
 
Q. Talking about age, I wonder if you could look at it from the other direction,
obviously the talent, depth level on the Tour has gotten more and more since you've been
out here. What's your thoughts when you see 13- and 14-year-olds playing in major
championships? 
 
 LAURA DAVIES: That's great. I saw Grace Park yesterday and one of the sponsors we did a
clinic with, and she was saying how she made the cut, being youngest person ever to make a
cut in a U.S. Open when she was 15. Yeah, there's nothing wrong it that. I think people
like the interest. Certainly the Wongluekiet sisters, Aree or Naree, which one -- what she
did at the Dinah Shore, it doesn't matter how old you are in this game. And any sport now,
tennis, the sports that are not so much strength sports, anyway, for the women. There's no
age limit really as far as I can see.  
 
End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT