PAGENET CHAMPIONSHIP
November 13, 1999
Laura Davies
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 LAURA DAVIES: Double-bogey on No. 2. Hit a really poor tee hot and it went out of
bounds. We think it went out of bounds. It was a lost ball or out-of-bounds; never did see
it. And then hit a 3-iron off the tee and 6-iron for about 25 feet and 2-putt there for a
double-bogey. And then it was just three birdies on par 5s, very short. 3-putt on No. 9,
driver, 6-iron there and two putts from about 25 feet -- no -- (inaudible). And then No.
10, didn't hit a very good tee shot. Hit a 4-iron just short of the green; chipped up to
about foot and a half, two feet and tucked that one in. And the only other birdie I had
was on 15. I hit a really good drive there and I hit 5-iron to about 25 feet. Thought I
had the putt, but it came back and 2-putt birdie there. I just couldn't make them today.  
 
Q. What's it like playing with Se Ri when she's going the opposite direction?
 
 LAURA DAVIES: It was bizarre. I hit it out of bounds on 2, and then she -- she pulled a
tee shot down No. 3. But she would have had a very straightforward shot into the green and
it hit the base of the tree and went straight left out of bounds, and I think that rattled
her. I think that would have rattled me. I would have deserved mine; I hit a poor tee shot
down 2. She just didn't serve to be out of bounds. And then she struggled a little bit and
missed the short putts on -- No. 4 ? No. 4, she missed a very short par putt, and then it
was 60-footer on No. 11 and hit it really close on 12. She made three birdies (inaudible)
other than that, she was under pressure from the minute the ball hit the base of that
tree. 
 
Q. What did you do on No. 8?
 
 LAURA DAVIES: Hit a driver and pitching wedge to about 15 feet and 2-putt. 
 
Q. How do you know when to use a tee, and sometimes, you just fluff up the dirt?
 
 LAURA DAVIES: If it's trouble down the right, I use it up the dirt; if it's trouble
down the left, then I use it up the tee. I hit it up the tee on the second one , which was
trouble on the right and I hit it out of bounds so I think -- but I was confident after I
was still on the range driving. (Inaudible) I don't have to be any more accurate because
I'm a little longer but I'm not quite as long little wedge in there, with a sand iron. 
 
Q. It looks like tomorrow is shaping up fairly interesting, with the Juli and Karrie
show --?
 
 LAURA DAVIES: I think it's set up for a perfect finish. You couldn't really ask -- you
couldn't really ask for a stronger finish. I'm putting myself in that same category as the
others. But I see some of the names on the leader board that have been on there all year.
I haven't been up there quite as much, but recently I've been on the board nearly every
week, and I don't think you can ask for a better finish. 
 
Q. If Lorie Kane came up to you ask asked you: What do you think I need to do to win, I
can't get over the hump, do you have any suggestions for her?
 
 LAURA DAVIES: Shoot one less than anybody else. That's the only way I know how to do
it. I don't know. You just -- it will happen. We all know it's going to happen for her.
You know, if I can't win tomorrow, there's no one I'd like to see more than Lorie. That's
all I can say. I'm trying my best to win one this year; so obviously, I'll be thinking
about myself. But if I drop off contention, then I'll be rooting for Lorie, like I think
most people will be. I think we'd all like to see her win. She deserves it. There's
nothing you can say to anyone. You can't call it bad luck every time she doesn't quite
pull when it off --. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT