PAGENET CHAMPIONSHIP
November 9, 1999
Laura Davies
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 LAURA DAVIES: Not this week, no. I played three holes in the Shootout today. 
 
 LAURA DAVIES: It is always fun. I wouldn't say it is my favorite city. It is always
dangerous, but I always enjoy it here. 
 
Q. Can you talk a little bit about your game and how you played last week?
 
 LAURA DAVIES: It has been a run ever since, I don't know, early July, I suppose, end of
June, early July, just started to play very well. I have been putting well, holing putts,
and just been very confident. I had three wins in Europe; one in Japan. I have had about
six 2nds now, after last week. So the whole year turned around a bit. I'd like to be
higher on the money list over here, but on the other hand, I won the European money list;
so that was at least one accomplishment this year. 
 
Q. How much travelling have you done this year? How many times have you played, like in
Australia?
 
 LAURA DAVIES: I have been to Japan twice. Obviously, the last trip. Been back and forth
to Europe about six times. And Australia at the beginning of the year, obviously, Hawaii
so it has been a really busy year. 
 
Q. A lot of the players don't like to travel that much. They have even move to Florida.
You are the opposite. Why is that that you enjoy doing that?
 
 LAURA DAVIES: Not that I enjoy it. I enjoy playing the World Tour. I enjoy playing in
Japan and Australia and Italy and France and Germany and all the places I enjoy that. They
don't enjoy it. They like the easy life and just stay in America and focus on one Tour. I
don't think -- although, I think I'd like the challenge it. I am probably going to play a
few more next year in America, but up until then, I have always played quite a lot in
Europe. 
 
Q. How do you manage to overcome, obviously, the stress on your body that travelling
takes, jet lag and the wear and tear that it takes on you and still keep your game at such
a high level?
 
 LAURA DAVIES: I am not aware of any -- I don't buy into all this jet-lag stuff. I just
get on with it. I don't consider -- you got to sleep somewhere; got to eat somewhere; got
to walk somewhere, so, I mean, the fact that it is different time zones every week for a
major part of the summer, eight countries, eight countries, eight weeks; and then another
seven countries, seven weeks after that. It is just not a problem. I just don't see it as
a problem at all. 
 
Q. Are you able to sleep on planes? 
 
 LAURA DAVIES: Even if I am in First Class in one of them sleep-seats, I find it very
hard to sleep on one of those chairs, even First Class. I wouldn't call it "sleep
well" on airplanes. I watch a lot of movies and read a little bit. 
 
Q. I read in the LPGA Newsletter that you launched a website.
 
 LAURA DAVIES: Yeah, Matthew set it up. Went to a company that obviously sets things up,
and he just decided that-- we have got a company set up, LD Productions and it was another
thing that -- he is doing a lot of different things for the company; that is one of the
ideas. It officially went online yesterday. So it is pretty good -- the people who are
doing it are very good, good graphics, competition pages, and got some shirts with the
logo, LD Productions logo on it. And just bits and pieces of video and a book and stuff
and some background on me. And we are going to do a feature of my house and stuff like
that. Just interesting bits and pieces that will be quite good fun. 
 
Q. Do you ever get on and actually chat?
 
 LAURA DAVIES: Yeah, all the players and caddies have pretty much got computers now so
whenever you turn your computer on, obviously on your buddy list there is always somebody
you could have a chat with. 
 
Q. So you use your computer a lot?
 
 LAURA DAVIES: Once a day, I sign on and get the email, check all the stuff that
interests me and it is easier than a newspaper. 
 
Q. Worldwide?
 
 LAURA DAVIES: Exactly. Nothing quite like it, an English newspaper that when you are
abroad, it appears as the best thing. 
 
Q. Do you have interest, say, like, from I don't know, you've got connections in Japan.
Do Japanese fans maybe log on to you?
 
 LAURA DAVIES: They might do now. They wouldn't know my AOL name, so they -- I don't
have it under my name. Now it will be some obviously letters and things that Matthew will
have to reply to and all that after asking me the questions. I am sure that will increase
now. 
 
Q. Are you using it as promotional tool for your own tournament?
 
 LAURA DAVIES: Well, if it is something that comes out of it -- I think that was
Matthew's original idea, possibly to drum up sponsorship for the tournament. But basically
as a point of interest. He always thought that I was under-sort-of-sold, and he decided
that it would be a good idea. We are not looking to make money out of it. It is just like
a lot of players have websites now. He just thought I should have won; so he set it up. 
 
Q. What is it, the Laura Davies Invitational?
 
 LAURA DAVIES: That is the tournament. 
 
Q. What is the date of that?
 
 LAURA DAVIES: Last year it was the week after the Swedish, which was -- I think it --
the Oldsmobile over here, in Lansing. This year, because of the messing around with all
the dates, we were going to try and get it the week before the British Open but now
DuMaurier is the week before the British Open; so I think it might be the week after the
British Open or the week after that. 
 
Q. You were talking last year that you weren't happy with your putting and you were
frustrated and everything. Now it is the opposite here. Is it a question of the Tour is
getting better now, because when you are playing well, a couple of years ago when you
played well, you were almost guaranteed to be in the Top 5. Now, necessarily, even if you
play well, it isn't necessarily a Top 5. Is that because the Tour is better?
 
 LAURA DAVIES: Yeah, the standards gone through the roof. There is absolutely no two
ways about it. The players come out -- used to be ten years ago that a rookie was a true
rookie; they were scared to mix it with the big names. Now, it is the big names are scared
to mix it with the rookies. They come out and they win, and they win fast, and they win a
lot. Kimmie this year, Se Ri last year, they are just out there and that is strengthening
the Tour. So it is good for all of us because everyone is having to play better, if you
want to win. I haven't won over here since Vegas last year, so, that is very
disappointing. But on the other hand, I played really well this summer, and you got to do
well. You have got to be exceptional to actually pick the trophy up. 
 
Q. Have you played as well this year as did you in 1996?
 
 LAURA DAVIES: The last six months is the best I have ever played. There is actually no
question about it. Paul, my caddie, we are going to actually videoed my swing to get a
record of it so when it is not going so well in a couple years' time, we will have that
because I have never swung smoother and never been as confident with it. Japan, last week,
apart from the-- I am saying I putted badly, but I didn't hole my share of putts. If I had
holed a few putts, then I would have been a challenge. Every week, I feel I can win. 
 
Q. Isn't your game to the point that even you are not always -- maybe you hit it well
enough that it comes down to you, strictly on how you are doing?
 
 LAURA DAVIES: If you miss the par 5 green and if your short game is sharp you will get
up-and-down and it works against you if you hit two good shots into the par 5 just off the
edge, that will make you birdie. Psychologically, it is hard, but if your short game is
sharp, that is when you are going to do -- obvious Top-10 finishes. Virtually every finish
I have had the last five, six months, I have hardly been outside it. That is because the
short game is good. You have then got to start holing all the putts to actually win one.
Like you said, the standard is that much higher. I pride myself now that my short game is
very good. 
 
Q. You said last year at this time that you worked a little bit with Rosie Jones just
getting some advice on your putting. You said she gave you -- 
 
 LAURA DAVIES: Yeah, yeah. 
 
Q. Did anyone this year help you with your putting that got you over the hump?
 
 LAURA DAVIES: Not really, no. I got one of those -- I don't even know what they are
called -- they stick the thing on your putter's face and it has got a very small sticky
area. If you get it wrong, the ball stops coming -- (inaudible) the clip. I used that for
a couple of weeks; started holing a few putts. So I haven't used it since Daytona, which
is when I got it because I have been putting well. I feel like the putt -- every putt I
hit has a chance now. Obviously, they don't all go in, but it feels like I'm hitting good
putts you know your confidence level is up. 
 
Q. When did you say you got that?
 
 LAURA DAVIES: Daytona. 
 
Q. You probably come into this tournament, this event, with really good confidence?
 
 LAURA DAVIES: Absolutely. I won a couple of weeks ago in Japan. Second place finishes
all over the place; three wins in Europe. I mean, there is no part of my game at the
moment that I am worried about. I am enjoying going to the golf course every day because I
just feel like I can -- if I don't shoot under par, I walk away disappointed. I am going
in there thinking maybe 4-, 5-under every day. It doesn't always happen, but unless you
feel like that -- you know, it worked to a point into a little bit the middle of last year
where I was waking up thinking, "Oh, God, I have got to go play golf." That is a
massive difference when you jump out of bed and think: "Great what are we going to
shoot?" 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT