THE SOLHEIM CUP
September 20, 1998
Laura Davies
Pia Nilsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Tell me, did you give your team any kind of encourage last night, a pep talk?

PIA NILSSON:  (Inaudible.) -- we could have come a long ways and we couldn't even do it.  It's the talk that we've been with bad luck and all that and I just wanted to quit that and just focus on what we do today and I feel they all lived up to that.


Q.  There's been some talk that maybe making the European side of the world side against the U.S.A.. What are your thoughts on that?

PIA NILSSON:  I don't have any thoughts.  I don't know.  One thing I do think is maybe one country or all of the countries of the world, but maybe it should be a different tournament, then, because this is great.


Q.  How tough is it to play your guts out 3 days and see the Americans get the Cup?

LAURA DAVIES:  It's horrible, really.  That's all you can say.  We came here and I think we all felt we could win if we tried our best and, for the most part, I think we did play our best, but I don't think we made as many putts as they did.  When we won at DALMAHOY, certainly, we made everything we looked at and I think that's -- electively, that's what you've got to do to win the Cup and we didn't hole enough putts and they did.  So congratulations to them.  They're a great group of players and we'll be looking forward to it again in two more years.


Q.  Did your team ever get disgruntled?  Did anybody ever get down?

LAURA DAVIES:  No.  We were a little bit angry yesterday after the morning session, after the incident on 18.  I think that did more for us than it did for them, to be honest with you, because we all decided that we were upset and we were going to come out today and try and win these singles matches and I think -- if you just need one and-a-half points, I think we'd prove  a point because everyone talks about how good they are in the singles and we were actually going to beat them in the singles today.


Q.  What did you learn about your team mates and yourself this week?

LAURA DAVIES:  I think we're good enough, but we've got to produce it on the week.  You know, I thought today that we -- if we could win the singles, something good might happen.  For a while, it really looked like it.  It just shows they can rise to the occasion. I rose to the occasion.  We all did.  Trish was unlucky, she loses 3-2 to Dottie who -- obviously, one of the best match players in the world.  Sherri Steinhauer turns it on at the end and Catriona loses.  All those matches could have gone the other way.  We tried our best.


Q.  Of all the events I've ever been to, this event is by far the most exhilarating event I've been to.  This is so special, isn't it, this whole week, win or lose?

LAURA DAVIES:  It's just fun.  Losing is not too much fun, I have to say.  This is four losses and one win, so the balance is certainly the wrong way now.  But it's just fun all week.  You're with a group of people -- the caddies, the players, the friends, the family, all the officials -- it's just like one big party and intense golf.  And, yeah, it's something you'd hate to miss out on and the year I'm not in THE SOLHEIM CUP, I'm going to be watching and cheering on from the outside of the ropes.


Q.  Thank you, very classy.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT