U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
May 31, 1996
Laura Davies
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LAURA DAVIES:  Very pleased with that.

LAURA DAVIES:  Well, obviously yesterday's game was horrible. So it wasn't hard to improve on 4 over.  I had a great start.  I felt confident.  Every time you miss a fairway out here you're in trouble, but luckily today I missed very few fairways.  And usually had not a short putt for birdie, but a lot of long birdie putts. You never know in Open greens if they're so true if you pick the right line you can knock a couple in. Unfortunately I didn't, but managed to sneak one in on 18.

LAURA DAVIES:  Yes, just the driver off No. 1 and No. 10, the two par 5's.  Everything else is a 2-iron.  Basically it's just keep it in play on the par 4's.  I don't mind hitting a 4 and 5-iron into them, as long as I have a shot from the fairway.  That's basically what happened on 14.  That was a bit of a silly tee shot there, and then again on 15.  It's the only two fairways I really missed.

LAURA DAVIES:  Okay.  The birdies were on No. 2, with a 2-iron and a 9-iron to about 20 feet -- well, 15 feet and made that.  No. 3 I hit a wedge to about 20 feet and made that one up the hill.  No. 4 was a 2-iron off the tee and a wedge to about 10 feet.  Bogey on No. 6.  I hit a good tee shot, actually, six inches off the fairway, had a flyer through the green, and ended up in a little hole and had to chip it down the hill and missed about a -- I suppose about a 12 foot par-putt there, so that was a bogey.  Bogey on 14, tried to be too clever on the tee shot and hit a rank 2-iron along the ground, basically and still had a 4-iron into the green and put it in a green-side bunker, came out to probably about 12 feet.  Hit a very good putt but missed it.  It went right across the hole, so a bogey there.  And then 18 was the 2-iron and the 9-iron to about 15 feet.

LAURA DAVIES: It's identical.  I think the greens are getting a little bit quicker, as I thought they would.  I think they're going to be quicker tomorrow and quicker on Sunday.  You've got to be more and more careful where you miss the greens.  I'm definitely - if I'm going to hit a bad shot, I want it to be short.  Although I look at Matthew, sometimes when we come down a bit too short, it's still sensible not to go along on these greens.


Q.  The course is like 6200 yards long, but everybody is talking about how long it's playing.  Can you give us some insight as to why people are hitting a lot of fairway woods in the greens and things like that?

LAURA DAVIES: Well, I don't know.  I'm obviously -- I'm not.  I can only speak for myself.  And I'm hitting my 2-iron a good way. I'm hitting it upwards of 240 yards, maybe 250 on a couple of them downwind.  And that's leaving you, even into those last five holes, which are particularly long -- 17 is probably the longest hole, I think, the way it plays.  It doesn't play downhill at all, it's dead flat.  I left myself 195 yards off a good 2-iron.  So I can only say  that's the one hole I feel really long.  All the others are really pretty much 2-iron, wedge, 2-iron, 9-iron.  You'll have to ask the other girls why they hit woods in.  (Laughter).


Q.  Laura, John Daly has been hitting a zero iron lately. Since you're hitting irons, have you thought about the zero iron and have you tried it?

LAURA DAVIES: I've got a minus 1-iron at the moment. (laughter).  No.  I did, actually, a few years ago go with a zero iron.  I think it was Tommy Armour came out. I don't know which one John is using at the moment.  But, no, I'm happy with my 2-iron.  It goes long enough.  It's a tough club to hit, a true zero iron like that.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT