BANK OF HOPE FOUNDERS CUP
March 18, 2018
Laura Davies
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I'm with Dame Laura Davies.  You won over 80 times worldwide; 20 times on this tour; you're in the World Golf Hall of Fame.  Not much you haven't accomplished.  How much did you want it out in today?
LAURA DAVIES: Would've been huge.  I realized the record and how old I am now and not having won for God knows how many years on the LPGA.  It would've been huge.
I'm actually quite pleased.  I don't know if I'll finish second or third or how they finished the last group, but it's a great finish for me.  I was 4-over after 6 on the first day, so just to get in this position is amazing.
Q. With as many events as you've won and the high-stakes and high-tension events, tell us how you were feeling on that first tee.
LAURA DAVIES: About as nervous as I've ever felt.  And I hit it, and I swear I nearly shanked it.  Actually got away with it.  Went about 200 yards.  I could see it.  It was so close to the hole.  That would've been a good start.
It was a bogey; but then chipped in on the 2nd for an eagle, and it really calmed me down.  I really enjoyed the day.
Q. Incredible week.  Tied for second place.  Talk us through this week, today, and what it all was like for you.
LAURA DAVIES: Incredible, really.  I was just saying to the Golf Channel I was 4-over after 6 and now I've finished tied second.  Amazing to come back.
I know I've been playing really well and I haven't had the results to reflect that.  Yeah, I'm just delighted the way the week has turned out.
Q. How special is this to you?  I think it's your highest performance since 2007.  How special is this result to you?
LAURA DAVIES: Well it just gives me -- now people might stop asking me when I'm going to retire.  I can just say, Well, I finished second last week.  That's the good bit.  People are off my back now.  I can just go and play and see if I can have a few more top 10 finishes this year.
The more I get up there, I might have a chance of winning again.  I'm not saying I will ever win, but today was close.  Maybe one day I can go closer.
Q. How good do you feel about your game right now?
LAURA DAVIES: Yeah, I couldn't be more pleased.  I mean, the only thing that disappointed me today was my putting, my long putting.  I was either short or long.  Then you saw on the last there, the worst read of the century I think.  I mean, I miss-read it by about four foot.  Incredibly bad putt.
The plus side is I've made loads of birdies this week, and that means you are putting well.
Q. What do you say to people that ask, How do you still do this in your 32nd year on the LPGA?
LAURA DAVIES: Well, I've never beat myself up on the range.  I think that really -- I'm not being flippant about it-- I think I haven't beat balls like some of these girls did for hours on end.  I mean, I'm waking with a limp this week so that kind of goes against my theory, but I think I've stayed strong.
At 54 I still feel like I can hit the ball as well as most of the really good players out here.
Q. This is a special event.  Honors the past and the legends of the game.  You're a legend of the game.  Does it make it more meaningful to...
LAURA DAVIES: Well, not like those ladies.  Two of those ladies started this whole party off all those years ago, and we're lucky that they did what they did.  How they did it, I'll never know.  I've seen the movie now and it really brings home to you what they did for us.
And the other ladies out there now, they gave so much in their day.  We owe them everything, to be honest with you.
Q. Does it make it more meaningful for you then to perform for them?
LAURA DAVIES: Oh, absolutely.  Hundred percent.  There is no question.  At the players' meeting every year they're there and you get to meet them have and a little chat with them.  You know, just maybe give them one a little bit of thanks just to let them know we've not forgotten about them and they are important to us.
Q. Ariya was so excited to play with you.  She says you're her golfing idol and her hero.  What was it like playing with her today?  She talked about playing --  you actually play the 2-iron...
LAURA DAVIES: Yeah, I mean, it's unusual to see someone hit their 2-iron, and I'm sure she thought the same thing.  Yeah, I love watching her play.  I mean, she out-hits me comfortably.  I mean, some of her irons, the ball flight on them, and her 3-wood goes further than my driver; her 2-iron nearly goes as far as my drive.
She's just fun to play with, and a lovely girl as well.
Q. Inbee, four birdies on the back nine.  If she's not there, maybe you do win this thing.  How much were you seeing what she was doing?
LAURA DAVIES: I didn't see until -- perhaps I wasn't looking, because I had 15-under in my mind.  Tanya (phonetic) said earlier in the week when we were about four over, Let's just set a crazy goal.  It was 15 under.  We actually got there and then threw it away at the end.
Yeah, the thing is I didn't hear much noise, but you just know she's going to be hitting it close enough to make putts and make birdies.  That's what Inbee does.  That's why she was the best player in the world at one point.
Q. You've been so successful in Phoenix.  What's it like playing in Arizona again?
LAURA DAVIES: I love it.  I love the golf courses.  I seem to hit it well out here.  It's a bit dry.  Skin is a bit dry.  That's its only downside.
Q. The younger players who might not have gotten the chance to see you at your best, what did it mean to you to give them a glimpse of what made you some special?
LAURA DAVIES: Well, it was nice.  Yesterday after I had that 63, a lot of the younger girls came up and said, Oh, great playing today.  It was nice I suppose to have that.
I still am a decent player, and I actually used to be really good at it.  Maybe that did give them a glimpse into what it used to be like, so...






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT