THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 15, 2017
Laura Davies
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LAURA DAVIES: Three silly bogeys, really -- three or four bogeys, but had some chances, made all my -- when I gave myself a chance, I made the putts, and drove it really well, which I think is the key around this golf course.  If you drive it well, you've got a chance.  If you don't, then you're in trouble.
Q. It's unusual to get a do-over in golf.
LAURA DAVIES: Yeah, I've had four now.  I think that's four in the 30-odd years I've been out here.  Two have gone for me, two have gone against me, so this is a for-me one.  The other one that was for-me was where we play in Virginia, Williamsburg, Kingsmill.  That was a do-over.  And then the British Open was against me and then the Welsh Open was massively against me.
It's a tough decision.  There's always going to be winners and losers.  I mean, look at she was 6-over, wasn't she.  You can't focus on that.  You've just got to -- like I said, at the time it really went against me at the British Open, I let it affect me, and you shouldn't do it because there's nothing we can do.
Q. Did you think it was necessary to wipe out the scores?
LAURA DAVIES: I thought it was the fairest thing to do.  I didn't think they would do it because I don't necessarily think the LPGA officials are all that fair.  They like it to be kind of down the line and no room for -- no gray area with them.  So I was surprised.  Happy surprised because I just thought the conditions yesterday morning were virtually unplayable.  Quite a few times you were putting and the ball was oscillating.  It wasn't moving, but you're over a three-foot putt downhill with a 20-mile-an-hour, 30-mile-an-hour wind and your ball is kind of oscillating.  It wasn't unplayable at the time, but it was right on the limits.
Q. When did that start?
LAURA DAVIES: From hole 1.  We played the 10th into a 40-mile-an-hour wind.  It was tough.
Q. Which tee was it you were bending down under --
LAURA DAVIES: That was 18.  Our ninth hole, the 18th hole.  Actually for 10, 15 seconds I was pretty scared because these limbs were coming flying past us, and Kyle, Jessica's caddie, was behind the holding and it blew over on him -- well, he just moved and it blew over.  They were good that they called it when they did because someone might have got hurt.
Q. Limbs did you say?
LAURA DAVIES: Branches from trees.
Q. I thought you were talking about arms and legs.
LAURA DAVIES: Well, there might have been.  I didn't see any, but I can't rule it out.
Q. And you said at 10:00 I'm going home because they're not going to start again?
LAURA DAVIES: No, they could have -- I think in hindsight they could have said, look, come back at -- we'll make a decision at 3:00.  They could have done that because it was pretty obvious, but I guess they want to do everything physically possible to get 72 holes in.
Q. Did you think Monday should have been an option?
LAURA DAVIES: It wouldn't have mattered to me because I'm off next week.  I always think Monday is unsatisfactory because you don't get the galleries, you don't get the atmosphere.  The British Open has been won on a Monday, I won a U.S. Open on Tuesday, so it is possible to finish these events like that, but I just think all in all, I know it benefitted me, but I think they made the right decision because 54 holes, 72 holes, someone has got to play the best, whether it's over 54 or 72, so ultimately I don't think it matters.
Q. Were you in the minority or the majority of that opinion?
LAURA DAVIES: Of 54, 72?
Q. That they made the right decision?
LAURA DAVIES: Well, anyone that was on course and was massively over par and thought the golf course was unplayable, they'll be happy about it.  Anyone that was sort of 1-under -- not that there were that many, I think there were only five people under par.  They would be pretty annoyed about it I'd imagine.  I've been in that position, and yes, you are annoyed and you do get angry, but you've got to look at the bigger picture, I think.  Not that we ever do because we're all very selfish.  Professional golfers are selfish.  We're all about ourselves trying to do the best we can do, and you don't see it as the whole picture.  You just think, I played great golf -- Jessica was one of them.  She didn't complain, by the way, but I imagine her and Kyle must have been quite irritated because they did really well to get to 2-under after eight holes in those conditions.  But there you go.  It's a tough one.
Q. When you won on a Tuesday, what was it like in terms of atmosphere?
LAURA DAVIES: Well, it was a U.S. Open, so the galleries are much, much bigger at U.S. Opens, so I do remember -- and it was a playoff, as well.  It was a three-person playoff, so there was only one group, so there was a pretty good atmosphere for the whole 18 holes we played.
Q. The U.S. Open?
LAURA DAVIES: The U.S. Open in '87.
Q. We heard that you were unable to play in the football last night.
LAURA DAVIES: Yeah, I was there for the warmup, but I haven't played for two and a half years now since I hurt my Achilles, and I've lost all the power.  I mean, I am going to start playing again over the winter five a side, but it's a big jump to go from no football to like a new pitch, and I knew after the warmup there was no way -- it would have been stupidity to play to be honest, but hopefully this time next year I'll have been playing again and I'll be able to have a go, because I was helping put the team together, so at least I was involved.  It's nice to be involved.
Q. Were you actually the manager?
LAURA DAVIES: I was the manager.  Yeah, I kept my job.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT