OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 7, 2012
Laura Davies
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Great round today, can you take us through the highlights?
LAURA DAVIES:   Well I, seven birdies, one bogey, and I missed a short putt, but I did miss four greens.   It was some good, solid short birdie putts and I knocked them in, had a 2‑putt on the third, holed a nice, 15‑, 20‑footer on the second.   It was generally some solid play that led to a lot of birdies. 

Q.   You had a couple of solid round to open the week but you really kicked on today.   Is there anything that you did particularly well?
LAURA DAVIES:   Well, I played better than I did the first to because yesterday I was to overall day and just had that great finish to make the cut, which was huge obviously, and then, yeah just a lot more solid today.   Hit more fairways which was good.   I think I hit nine yesterday whereas I only hit six yesterday. 
The other ones weren't that bad, just off the edges.   I would say overall, it was just a lot tidier than the first two days.

Q.   Put you in a good position, what do you think is possible tomorrow?
LAURA DAVIES:   Well, depends what Shanshan does.   If she kicks onto 15‑, 16‑, 17‑under, then you know, that's too many behind.   But if she finished on 13 or 14, then you know that's not too many, depending on what she does, and obviously I then have to go low again, which is what I'm going to be trying to do. 
It will be all‑out attack again like it was today.   But winning is slightly out of my mind at the moment purely because I'm so far back. 

Q.   Just want to ask you about the course, could you give us an overall summary of the course, and what you particularly like about it, playing here?
LAURA DAVIES:   I like it mainly because every hole is different.   You have a few doglegs right‑to‑left, there's a few left‑to‑righters, there's water on holes, there's the waste areas come into play on a lot of the holes.   But there's no two holes where you can get confused because they are all that different. 
The green shapes are very different; some of them are bowl‑shaped and some you can hit into areas and you can feed in.   18 I think is one of the best par 5s in the world and I love that hole.   It's been cruel and kind to me over the years, but today was a bit cruel. 

Q.   It's a good closing hole, isn't it, because there's still an element of anything can happen when the players are on the final tee. 
LAURA DAVIES:   Well, I've had a 7 and I've had a 3, so there's a number that I know.   Some people have had 9s if you get it all wrong and I've had a 6, a 5, and a 4 this week, so hopefully the 3 is coming tomorrow. 

Q.   What's the approach when you play that hole, when you are standing on the tee?
LAURA DAVIES:   Well, there's an angle I can take.   It wasn't easy because they moved the tee back about a yard, and although that doesn't say much, that made all the difference where I can take my normal lie.   So I had to go a bit straighter today and I clipped the top of the tree.   If you can get your drive down that left side, it left me a 9‑iron in yesterday and it's a very short par 5.   But it's a risky shot because you're taking the desert on, you're taking the trees on. 
I thought I hit a perfect tee shot on the last, and get up there and we're in the desert behind the palm tree and then I hit the palm tree and then we just hit extra club to make sure we cleared the water and then you just hope you get up‑and‑down, which I did, which is good. 

Q.   Yesterday's finish, how much was that a factor? 
LAURA DAVIES:   Well, it was everything, because if I had finished 1‑over, I'd have missed the cut.   It was everything.   I'd be back in England by now, which is obviously not where you want to be when you've come all this way to such a good place. 
Yeah, that set the week up and now we have a chance.   I'm not saying we can win it but second place, third place is not out of the question. 

Q.   Your view on Shanshan, she's playing so well obviously.   Your thoughts on her? 
LAURA DAVIES:   Well, she's just a great player.   She's great fun, she's a very bubbly character.   She just enjoys life and she comes out to these tournaments with a great attitude, and she plays her golf.   Whether she plays well or badly, you never see her without a smile on her face, which is an absolute delight in this day and age.   We all take it a bit too seriously; Shanshan doesn't. 

Q.   How are you going to approach tomorrow? 
LAURA DAVIES:   Well, it's got to be the same again.   I have to shoot a minimum of 66 and probably more than that to try and get involved.   If I can go out and shoot anywhere, 4‑under or better, I would say that would be a good week.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT