THE SOLHEIM CUP
September 25, 2011
Laura Davies
Juli Inkster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about the last?   
 CHRISTEL BOELJON: Yeah, it was good. I couldn't see it, but (Indiscernible) it was wet, and it had a little spin on it. Just when she hits her shots (Indiscernible).  
  
  Q. Overall a half is a fair result?   
 LAURA DAVIES: None of us played our best golf because it just didn't allow you to. So I think a halve is probably a fair result, but I had gotten so close. I had a flyer out of the rough, and then a rock-hard bunker shot where you needed a little bit of sand over there.   
 Juli hit a great shot under pressure, so you can't really argue with that.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 JULI INKSTER: My role is to try to bring them on in. It's very close, so it can go either way. That's what I'm going to do right now.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 LAURA DAVIES: A lot of pressure, they're the groups that are going to absolutely decide it because it is still so close. It might be similar to a major championship, possibly, but I don't even think that's the same amount of pressure.  
  
  Q. Tell me a little bit of your thoughts about today? I imagine that it's a little bit like a loss?   
 LAURA DAVIES: Yeah, it's a little bit. I hit a putt on 17 that I couldn't miss and then doesn't go in. Then Juli's in the front bunker, and I'm in the perfect -- I thought I had a perfect lie, but then I hit a flyer.   
 You just put it in the middle there and hope the two-putt was good enough which it would have been. So, yeah, disappointed because that half point might actually be incredibly important.  
  
  Q. Juli, what's it like to go up against a player like Laura?   
 JULI INKSTER: Well, we're good friends. We've played a lot of golf together. I don't know how it happened, but we ended up playing together.   
 But I know she's disappointed, but I think we both felt like we left a few out there. You know what, maybe it just -- (Indiscernible).  
  
  Q. In the realm of the golf world, it sort of seems appropriate that you guys halved?   
 LAURA DAVIES: Yeah, like I said before, we didn't play our best golf because the course doesn't really allow it, and the weather certainly didn't allow it. We both made lots of mistakes, hit some good shots as well.   
 Yeah, halve probably is a fair example and reflection of the whole of the 18 holes.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT