OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 11, 2010
Laura Davies
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. It's over as far as the Henderson Money List is concerned but you've had five wins this year and a great season.   
 LAURA DAVIES: Absolutely, you've summed it up. I don't really need to say much about it. That's exactly right.  
  
  Q. I think I've heard you quoted before as saying it's probably your best year since 1995 or 1996. Talk us through some of the highs.   
 LAURA DAVIES: Just because of wins, I don't mean actual golfing-wise, because obviously I've not done well in America and that makes the year disappointing; but just purely in volume of wins it has been.   
 But quality of play, no, it has not been. In '96 I won ten times, '97 played great, but there have been a lot of years in between that have been a lot better than this year all over the world, but Europe's been fantastic.  
  
  Q. A word on Lee-Anne being first South African to top the Money List with five victories in a short space of time; presumably you think she's a worthy winner?   
 LAURA DAVIES: Absolutely, yeah, you know, she's the one that when I went ahead of her after Spain, she hit back with two win and you just can't say enough about that. That's worthy of being the Money List being this year and all well done to here.  
  
  Q. You said the damage here was done predominately on the first day, back two rounds you steadied the ship slightly; overall assessment?   
 LAURA DAVIES: The first day killed me. I shot 3-over and could have been 10-over. I did really well to hang onto anything like a score, and the last three days I did really well. Barring the triple-bogey on 8 on the second round, I would have shot under par every round; if I had just shot 1- or 2-under the first day, that's not too far off the leaders at the moment.  
  
  Q. Lee-Anne came in and said her score didn't reflect it but she didn't quite hole the right putts, as opposed to the course being difficult. You were obviously up there last year. So are you finding the course setup challenging and tricky, or do you feel it's you and your game responsible?  
 LAURA DAVIES: No, the greens are a lot harder this year. There's a lot more grain in them. I have not putted badly, I only had one 3-putt -- well two. I just 3-putted the 18, which was nice. I've putted solid but I haven't holed anything and some weeks are like that. You hit good putts and they don't go in.  
  
  Q. Plans now for the off-season?  
 LAURA DAVIES: Nothing. Just go home for five weeks and head off to Australia middle to end of January.  
  
  Q. You have a lot of other things on including your passion for things like horse racing and so on, Liverpool fan. Just a word on those two. Are you going to be going down to the races back home?  
 LAURA DAVIES: Itch my caddie every year, haven't had it the last couple of years because everybody's been busy but we are going to Kempton Racing on the 22nd in the evening, 14 of my ex-caddies are coming -- well, 13 and one of me, and that will be a day's racing.   
 And Liverpool tonight, watch them beat Newcastle four or five nil, and maybe go and see them once live. But I'll see every other game on TV or the computer, and hopefully they will move up the table because it was a terrible start.  
  
  Q. Better than a top four finish?  
 LAURA DAVIES: It won't be better than a top four finish. If we get a top four finish it will only be on that final weekend and I think it's going to be a struggle because Bob Torres is always injured, Gerard has the injury now, Mr. Reliable, Carragher, is injured. So without your mainstay players, apart from Pepe Reina, we have not had our mainstay players all season. It makes such a difference.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT