RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 29, 2010
Laura Davies
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: We have Laura Davies here, who shot a level par-72 in very tough conditions. It's interesting two of the more experienced players are here. Do you think that's a coincidence or do you think experience helps? 
 LAURA DAVIES: No, I think you need to know how to get your ball around a golf course in very tough conditions. 

 Q. How did you feel you played today?
 LAURA DAVIES: I thought I just missed a few greens in the first ten holes and parred the par-5, so that may have seemed a bad start, but I guess most people are going to make 5 on that one. But then it was pretty steady, had a couple of good up-and-downs out of bunkers on 8, missed some short ones to be honest, but on 18 had about a three- or four-footer, could have holed that, but I left that short in the jaws. It could have been better. 

 Q. We were just talking to Juli about the players like yourself and her weren't so regimented in the way you were taught and when conditions are hard may have more feel than the younger, heavily coached players, more control of your ball? Is that something --
LAURA DAVIES: Definitely, yeah. A lot of the older players can shape the ball a lot better because now it all seems to be so simple. They've got those hybrid woods, and you can't shape them really. You've just got one shot with them. We had to play -- I'm sure Juli in the old days used to play with 4-irons and 3-irons herself. Yeah, it certainly helps. 

 Q. (No microphone.) 
 LAURA DAVIES: I had to hit a 5-iron and just keep it down under the wind, hit it dead straight, and I think you can't do that with (inaudible), it doesn't work with them. Just shots like that. I didn't pull it off on 17. I hit a 4-iron and I tried to run it up there. 

 Q. You've played here a lot and you've probably played in far worse conditions than today. Would you rather it carried on being a bit blustery over the weekend?
 LAURA DAVIES: Yeah, I think so. The tougher it is, the better ball strikers will always come to the top, and obviously I consider myself one of the better ball strikers. Yeah, if it stays at that level the whole week, I think it would be a very fair test.

 Q. Have you changed the woods you have in your bag over the years?
 LAURA DAVIES: I have a 3-iron and then a 2-iron, it's like a hybrid. Ping has come out with one that looks more like a 2-iron, and I still feel like I can shape it. 

 Q. Over the years, obviously you've been playing a little while now, and these days the game has changed, there's a lot more access to training and coaching than there would have been in the old days. Comparing when you first started out with all the things that are available now, are you disappointed that there don't appear to be a lot of championship-contending juniors coming through the system compared to people from other countries, for example?
 LAURA DAVIES: You mean the British girls? Yeah, obviously it would be much nicer for us to see a lot of younger girls. We have Melissa Reid now who's coming through. There are some 14, 15 years old that in a few years, maybe they'll be the ones coming through, but at the moment there doesn't seem to be that many of them. 

 Q. Are there things being done in other countries that are not being done here which could be corrected?
 LAURA DAVIES: Well, I think in America the college system is very good. A lot of good players come out of college, and they've played golf since 13, 14, in hard competition. And I don't know that that -- I assume that doesn't happen over here. The school system still doesn't allow girls to get on golf teams. Sweden, they obviously had a great run with Alfie and other great players. There's no great system I don't think.

 Q. Can we go over your birdies and bogeys.
 LAURA DAVIES: Yes, 1, I hit 2-iron, 2-iron just short, didn't hit a particularly good chip and missed the putt, so bogey there.
 Bogey on 6, a lucky one, I pulled my tee shot, found it, hacked it back in the fairway, hit sand wedge to about ten feet and holed that.
 7th hole, hit a lovely shot in, thought it was perfect, the wind knocked it down, hit it out of the bunker, didn't get up-and-down. 
 And then No. 14, hit a 7-iron and made the putt. That was it, really, two birdies, two bogeys. 

 Q. You mentioned Tom Watson yesterday, but do you draw inspiration from what he did at 59?
 LAURA DAVIES: I think more than anything it's a good example of the people -- I'm younger than Tom, and people ask when I'm going to stop playing. I'm still winning. I don't really comprehend the question. So it's nice that Tom did so well at 59, and it's a perfect example of at 50 or 51 I can still play. Yes, it was fantastic, but it's just good that I can use him as an example. 

 Q. Juli was just saying that unlike the male players, the female players have got nowhere to go at the end of the Tour. That's it. Is that something you think of, this feel of what to do after? 
 LAURA DAVIES: Yeah, when you're a competitor like I am, you just want to keep playing. I don't think it's ever going to happen. There's never going to be a women's senior tour, and that's just the way it is. Maybe the men will let us have a go, have a go on their Tour. It's a shame. Juli is still on the LPGA and so am I. We're just examples of players that have -- (indiscernible) could still compete, but she didn't want to do it anymore. You've got to want to compete and be out there week in and week out and mixing it with these youngsters. Some players love to do it and some players don't. 

 Q. Actually Juli said that she would like to see mixed senior events. 
 LAURA DAVIES: I would love that. I think that would be great. We wouldn't have to do much with the tees either. That would be great. I mean, a little bit. I think Jan Stephenson had a go in one of those senior events a while back. I don't know how she did, but I think she had a go.

 Q. Would you like an invite to a regular senior tournament?
 LAURA DAVIES: When I'm 50, I think that would be great fun, yeah. 

 Q. You wouldn't have wanted that before, would you, in the regular game? 
 LAURA DAVIES: I played in Australia. I did really badly, but it was the first week back after eight weeks off, and I played on the Australian Tour in our off-season. I probably should have said no, but I had eight weeks off and just turned up and tried to play off the back tees. Think I finished second last but at least I had a go.

 Q. You would like an invite --
 LAURA DAVIES: Not at the moment. At the time I was still winning lots of tournaments, and I've won twice this year. I haven't won on the LPGA for a long time. But it would be pointless at the moment to play with the men, because if I can't beat the girls, I certainly can't beat the men. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT