U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 9, 2009
Laura Davies
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   LAURA DAVIES: I haven't really played that well all year. This is probably the best round I've played since Australia.   
 This is a golf course I love. I knew I was going to like it here, and like I say, I think this is a pretty good effort.   
  
  Q. It's been 20 years you've been playing out here. What's your motivation to still be here?   
 LAURA DAVIES: Well, it's probably along with the British Open, the best tournament we play in women's golf, so it's just lovely to be here, have a chance to play the great golf courses in America, which this is obviously one of them. And I need a major win to get in the Hall of Fame. So I'm trying to do a lot of stuff in one week. So the more times you play in these events, the better chance you have. I think this is my third U. S. Open, or the second U. S. Open, and it seemed so easy before, and it's not been so easy since.  
  
  Q. Is the tension thing something you have a problem with?  
 LAURA DAVIES: I'm not quite sure. I was anxious to be qualifying. I was going through the qualifying four Mondays ago, and about two weeks before that I had a phone call from the USGA saying you don't have to go through qualifying anymore, and I said, "thanks very much." That qualifying is not very easy, 36 holes in one day. There's people going through qualifying the likes of Michelle Wie and Natalie Gulbis that missed it, and that's the same one I would have been at, and it's not easy. It's nice to take advantage of that.  
  
  Q. Is that why they chose you?  
 LAURA DAVIES: My understanding of it is if you've been a player that's won it, and this is my 23rd straight U. S. Open, and I think you get one invitation and if I get one next year, I need to take advantage, get in the Top 10 or 20 and guarantee my chance in next year's field and there's a long way to go yet.  
  
  Q. There was a provisional ball that you had to deal with out there.   
 LAURA DAVIES: I had a No. 3 shot and this guy's waving an out-of-bounds signal, and across to the range and it shot straight right, so it was a little bit unlucky -- not unlucky because I went under a bridge, but it wasn't out of bounds, and I had to chip from out of bounds and actually made a 5.  
  
  Q. Great save there. You made three or four out there.   
 LAURA DAVIES: I putted nice today. I didn't make as many birdie putts as I would have liked. Probably four, but really good birdie putts, and that's what held me together.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT