U.S. SENIOR WOMEN'S OPEN
May 16, 2019
Laura Davies
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How was your day?
LAURA DAVIES: I tell you, it's tough.  I had two 4-putts.  I 4-putted just short on 2 in the first four, whacked it; and then 17 just short and I 4-putted.  Putted off the back edge, and then 3-putted from back edge both times.
Hit two bad irons on one hole.  Managed to get a great bogey, but other than that played solid.  It's tough out here.  Really tough.
Q. How did you mean tough?
LAURA DAVIES: The greens.  You can't really go --  and I've driven it well today so I've been going in with wedge, nines, eights.  You can't go for a pin because if you miss it slightly -- my playing partner there just missed the green pin high right and walked off with a 9.  It's tough.
I mean, I don't know what to tell you.  It's scary out there.
Q. Couple players came through earlier said that the course got a little bit firmer and the ball was carrying a little bit further so it shortened the course a little bit.  In your mind did that happen?
LAURA DAVIES: Yeah, it's definitely not playing long.  That doesn't matter because it's all about the green complexes.  I think I said the other night at the party thing that your trouble starts when you get on the green.  I've proved it today.  I don't know how many putts I had, but it was a lot.
Q. How has your reception been as the reigning champion?
LAURA DAVIES: Oh, it's been great.  Everyone has been so nice, all the galleries, all the USGA officials.  Can't complain at all.  It's been a really nice place to come back and defend, but it's tough and it's making it awkward.
Q. Does that mean more work on the putting green for you?
LAURA DAVIES: I don't know what you can do to combat this, because, like I said, we've hit some good shots between us.  I don't think any of us hit an aggressive putt all day for birdie.  Just trying to lag it.  Even the lag on 17 was only going to be a lag and I putted it 30 feet past down the hill.
I don't think I putted badly today.  I just think that because the way the greens are you can't get close enough to make -- I had two birdies and I hit them both stiff, both like 12, 14-inch putts.  My only two birdies and they were two irons - a sand iron and a 9-iron -- that I hit really close.
Q. Is that a you're at the U.S. Open kind of just have to say that's the way it is?
LAURA DAVIES: Oh, absolutely.  I'm not complaining.  It's a shame the scoring is not going to be better.  If the course speeds up I'm thinking double figures over is going to win it.  It could easily be that.  It's that hard.
You got to remember, you've got a field of 50-plus-year-old ladies and only probably I would say five or six of us that play full time still.
If we're finding it tough, which I know we are.  Juli is 6-over; I'm 4-over.  Some good players who are struggling.
But that's a U.S. Open.  As long as everyone doesn't start, Oh, they're, yeah, useless.  The golf course is hard; that's why we're struggling.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT