CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2007
Laura Davies
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   LAURA DAVIES:  It wasn't an ideal start to the week.   
  
  Q.  What time did you know you had your luggage?   
 LAURA DAVIES:  About half past 6:00 last night.  We went out to the mall to get some clothes to wear today thinking we weren't going to get them because nobody seemed to know where the hell they were, and we walked back in and there they were sitting on the baggage cart.  It was nice to get them back.  Unfortunately missed the Pro-Am yesterday.  That meant I hadn't seen the course and hadn't played for 13 days because the last time I played was Friday of The Open.   
 It hasn't been ideal preparation, and this is a tough course so you probably need to know it.   
  
  Q.  Is this stuff that was in your suitcase?   
 LAURA DAVIES:  Yeah, don't you like it?  This is my choice, believe it or not.   
 They haven't got Srixon, so I wouldn't have been wearing my sponsor's logo.  There's nothing I could have done about that.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about the last time you shot an 8?   
 LAURA DAVIES:  I've had loads of 10s, 11s, I've seen had a 12, so it's nothing new for me.   
  
  Q.  When was the last one?   
 LAURA DAVIES:  I don't know, we play 500 holes a year, 1,000 holes a year, I really don't remember.  I don't try to remember them, I only try to remember the birdies.  I had a hole-in-one about nine months ago.  That was a good one.   
  
  Q.  Can you rewind to the last time that you played Edmonton, obviously it was a major championship.  What just sticks out in your mind about the last time you came to Edmonton when it was the du Maurier Classic?   
 LAURA DAVIES:  Well, 66 on Sunday in windy conditions.  It's one of the best rounds I've ever played.  It's probably the best round I've ever played to win -- won me a major championship.  It was hard conditions on a really hard golf course as I remember one that.  I mean, 11 years is a long time ago, but I still remember the 18th hole, 17, 16.  I can remember a lot of the holes.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT