MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 7, 2007
Laura Davies
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Good afternoon, everyone.  Laura, thank you for coming in.  You had a busy day, seven birdies, three bogeys but overall, you're only one back from the lead, so you have to be happy with that round. 
 LAURA DAVIES:  Yeah, I played well.  I played very -- it looks a little bit wild but two of the bogeys were 3-putts and the other one was just one bad shot really and had to take an unplayable. 
 And then, yeah, seven birdies was pretty nice.  Holed one really long putt, but the rest of them were real chances. 
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Can we go over your scorecard? 
 LAURA DAVIES:  Birdied 10.  I hit a really nice drive and a pitching wedge and it hit the flag and went to about ten feet, 12 feet and made that.  It was probably about 120. 
 11 is where I had to take an unplayable.  I hit a good drive and tried to lay up with 3-wood and just whipped one way left off a side slope. 
 And then had to take an unplayable, like I said, in the rough to hit it just short of the green and chipped up to about 12 feet and made the putt for a bogey. 
 Then 3-putted the next.  Hit a 7-iron into the middle of the green, only about 25 feet away and 3-putts.  The first putt I left about probably six feet short. 
 Then birdie on No. 14.  Hit a good drive and a sand wedge to about three feet from 109. 
 Then No. 15, hit a really good drive and a 3-iron to about 30 feet and two putts.  We had 224 to the pin. 
 No. 18, I hit a good drive down 18 and pitching wedge to about five feet.  The pitching wedge was from about 124 yards. 
 Birdie on No. 3.  That was the long putt.  I hit a 9-iron, just pulled it a little bit and just went to the back edge about 60 feet and holed that. 
 Birdie up the hill on 5.  Hit a long drive there, longest drive of the day there, about 122 and hit a pitching wedge to two feet and tapped that one in. 
 Bogey on the next hole.  Good 3-iron off the tee and had a 9-iron second shot, probably about 44 feet away and left it about five feet short and missed the par putt. 
 No. 8, hit a really good drive and a 6-iron to about 30 feet and two putts.  The 6-iron was from about 72 front.  It was just over 202 I think it was.  But it was down the hill at that stage. 

 Q.  (About your chances for playing well here). 
 LAURA DAVIES:  I've been looking forward to coming here last year because I've been playing well coming in, and I played well last year.  That combination, I'm not surprised I had 4-under but it's a tough course and you have to be careful out there.  If you get it wrong like I did on 11 there's plenty of trouble.  You have to be adventurous off the tee and you have to be sensible on the holes. 

 Q.  What do you attribute your fine play today? 
 LAURA DAVIES:  I'm just more confident.  I played really well in Europe last year, and won the Money List.  Only won once, but I had six second places and just played very solid and started out this year in Australia.  I made both the cuts and went to Hawaii and steady progress again and then I had third place at the Ginn.  So confidence level has been building and building. 
 I haven't missed a cut since the U.S. Open last year, and that's something I've always wanted to do is go a full calendar year without missing a cut, not a calendar year but a full-year period of time.  So this is as close as I've been to do it.  I have four more rounds to negotiate and see if I can make the cut. 

 Q.  Maybe you don't want to talk about this, but every time you come here, we always say you need two points to make the Hall and you know that and we know that.  What's the attitude this weekend?  Is it just getting it out of your mind or something to shoot for? 
 LAURA DAVIES:  I consider it a bonus.  You know, if I win this week, the bonus is getting in the Hall of Fame.  So it's not a pressure I think.  It's more a bonus situation. 
 So I'm the only one that is close enough to do it, so I'm the one in position and basically people are going to talk about it. 
 It's not weighing on me, I can assure you.  It's something that would be lovely to happen and I'm convinced it will happen one day, which I may as well give up now if I don't think I can ever win out here again. 
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Thank you all for coming in.  Laura, great round. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT