MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 10, 2007
Laura Davies
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN:  Laura Davies, 6-under today 65, tied for third.  Just so you know, they did have you for an eagle on No. 8, so everyone got pretty excited in the interview room.  But needless to say, you're in the hunt again and this would be a great tournament for you to win.  Can you just talk about how you played and where you're at right now?   
 LAURA DAVIES:  Yeah it was very solid.  Drove the ball very well.  Hit just two bad irons, one at the 9th there and pulled a 9-iron left and went for the 15th in two with a 2-iron and missed that one quite badly.  But other than that, it was very solid.   
 MIKE SCANLAN:  Can we just go through your scorecard quickly?  You started on No. 10.   
 LAURA DAVIES:  12, I hit a really good drive gown there, I only had 90 yards to the pin and hit a 60-degree wedge to about probably 15 feet and made that.   
 14 was a good drive there into the wind.  Had a gap wedge and hit that to about ten feet and made that one.   
 Good up-and-down on 15.  I missed the green in the hazard but got up-and-down for a par.   
 17, a 7-iron to about eight feet and holed that.   
 3 was a drive and a 5-iron to about 30 feet and two putts.   
 The par 3, hit a lovely 8-iron in there about two feet.   
 The par 5, I hit driver, 3-iron.  I was just pin-high right, and about seven feet and 2-putted just off the edge.   
  
  Q.  By the time you teed off, the course record had already been tied and I think there were about 20-some people in the 60s.  Does that change at all how you approach the day?   
 LAURA DAVIES:  Well, I don't like it.  That's why I really like to get off early the first day because then you very rarely turn up eight behind.  It's never a good thing, is it.  But in a way, it helps you, because you just figure, well, no point worrying about getting off to a steady start.   
 You've got to come out flying and try and get -- I thought 3-under would have been a good round today, because 8-under is obviously exceptional, and 7-under; but 3-under would have been a really good start to this week.  So, I've exceeded that obviously by three.   
  
  Q.  Will you have much difficulty reaching any of the par 5s this week, and do you see eagle possibilities?   
 LAURA DAVIES:  Yeah, they are very reachable all of them.  I think a good drive should leave me -- I could hit driver, 4-iron to all of them if I hit a good drive good in that sense.   
  
  Q.  Are you a bit disappointed that you left yourself with such long eagle putts today ?   
 LAURA DAVIES:  Well, they are dangerous shots.  Although they are eagle chances, they are dangerous little shots because No. 15 where I did actually hit it right in the hazard, I had 2-iron there today.  That played into the wind.   
 And the 5-iron I hit into No. 3 was a little defensive because you can't miss it left.  If you miss it left you're not going to make a birdie.   
 In that sense I'm just trying to make a birdie.  Eagle is lucky and birdie is what you want.  When you hit a good drive, you want to make a birdie.   
  
  Q.  Is your game on a general up-track these days?  You've been playing fairly well, after some years when maybe you didn't play so well.  What's going on?   
 LAURA DAVIES:  Well, it started last year in Europe.  I finished second in Switzerland and shot 6-under the first day -- it was after this week last year.   
 So, you know, it's been a year now that I've been playing good golf.  I won the European Money List last year, which is a pretty good feat, and things have been going well.  And obviously 10th on the Money List this year so far.   
 So, yeah, I'm very positive, enjoying every round, which is something that I wasn't doing this time last year.   
  
  Q.  How do you attribute the improved play?  Is it a mental thing?   
 LAURA DAVIES:  Mental, completely.  I've always hit the ball very similar to what I hit it now, but it's just whether I can take it from the range to the golf course.  The beginning of last year was the worst time of my life.  I missed seven cuts, and this was the week that broke the drought; I made the cut.  I had to hole a 3-footer on No. 9 and I missed that, who knows where I would be now, probably in a mental home.  (Laughter).   
  
  Q.  You mentioned you hit a 2-iron into that par 5, are you one of the few players left who is still hitting 2-iron or carrying a 2-iron?   
 LAURA DAVIES:  Probably.  It seems like everybody has these rescue clubs or 19-woods and 21-woods.  I like the old-fashioned game.  There's nothing better than striking a really good long iron.   
  
  Q.  Do you carry a 1-iron?   
 LAURA DAVIES:  No.  Driver, 2-iron and 3, 4, 5, right down to the wedges.   
  
  Q.  When you were on top of your game you were known as a player who really enjoyed life.  You were famous for some of your victory celebrations.  As you've gotten older, have you had to tone down your lifestyle any?   
 LAURA DAVIES:  Well, I like the odd bet.  That's as wild as I get.  I like the odd drink now and again but no, I'm pretty -- when I'm winning, I like spending the money, I like to buy a couple of Ferraris and stuff, that's good fun.  If I win this week, I'll buy another one.  (Laughter).   
 MIKE SCANLAN:  Laura, thanks a lot and good luck this week.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT