MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 11, 2005
Laura Davies
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.   I know you're disappointed with your round.  Just your thoughts now with one round to go to make up the distance.
LAURA DAVIES: You know, I tried after I got back in it on 16, that was it, we made our move there and we got mugged with the lie.  It was a bad tee shot.  Annika had two birdies, and then the doubling at the last is irrelevant, really, because you probably can't win now unless Annika does something very unusual.  It's a race for second place now, the way I'm looking at it.
Q.   Can you talk about the decision on 16, were you definite from the start?
LAURA DAVIES: 100 percent.  I got away with murder on 14.  I was only 3 behind.  I'm looking to make 2 to get one behind.  Things didn't work out.  I make the bogey and Annika makes the birdie, and it is back to 5 again.
Q.   I'm sorry if you answered this, but did the par putt on number 1, did someone say something?
LAURA DAVIES: It was just the gallery were moving.  Normally I ignore them.  It was two guys, they were saying each other's name telling each other how clever they were.  They were chatting away, and I never, never back off.  That's why, because I always miss when I do.
Q.   Did that have anything to do with how the rest of your round progressed?
LAURA DAVIES: Not really.  Like I said, we were being very aggressive.  Like on number 3, over on 12, the one that was really cut right to the water, we picked the wrong club basically.  We went straight at it.  We were trying to win, and when you're trying to win, sometimes you mess up.  So as the scorecard says, I have 5 birdies maybe even 6 birdies.  When you're trying to win, playing against someone as good as Annika, you got to try to do something a bit different.  This is a hard golf course to be forcing.
Q.   She gave you guys a little of an opening on the Back  9.  It seemed like a golf tournament again, and she made the two birdies.
LAURA DAVIES: It's almost like she's toying with us, like a mouse and a cat there.  You know, she's good, and that's what     that's why she wins so regularly.  Not that I don't play very aggressively anyway.  She makes you kind to do something.  I would have tried to drive 16 regardless.  I'm talking rubbish, really.  Sounds good, doesn't it?  You know she's going to make birdies.
Q.   The shots that you had on    I guess it was on 16 where you were both in the left rough, was that 16 where she puts it on the green and you put it in the junk?
LAURA DAVIES: 16 I went for the green and she laid up.  She was in the left rough, she hit a terrific shot.
Q.   It looked like a few struggles on short putts?
LAURA DAVIES: I didn't putt well today, disappointing, really.  I'm not going to let one round     as I keep saying, these greens are exceptionally difficult.  I'm actually missed off, because of the last putt.  A double at the last really hurts.
Q.   Is playing for second at this stage of your career, can you get motivated playing for second?
LAURA DAVIES: It will get me on the money list and in the Tour championship, it will get me some Solheim points, so there is always something to play for, money list position, Player Of the Year points.  Winning is the ultimate, but there's a lot more to play for than just winning.
Q.   Do you think that strategy where you kind of have to go for it because you know Annika is doing so well, does that get in the back of people's heads at all, do you think?
LAURA DAVIES: Well, I'm a naturally aggressive player, and the last few weeks I have been playing well by playing like that.  Every time I get a number and a club, and a tough pin, my caddy is right there with me.  He wants me to take on the tight pins and go for greens.

If you turn out to make a nice check, you can do that, but if you're turning up to win, you've got to make something happen because Annika will always do that.  If I didn't miss that putt at the first, things would have been different.  2 over after three rounds is a horrendous start in this golf course because the Front 9 is where you've got to make your score because there is some good holes on the Back  9.
Q.   Any issues with the pace of play?
LAURA DAVIES: I would like to take a gun and shoot the slow ones.  It's pathetic, it drives me crazy.  How can you play four and a half hours in a two ball in a golf course like this?  They're just slow.  They stand over these putts for a quarter of an hour.  Annika is the best player in the world and she's not slow.  That should tell everyone something.
Q.   Besides the fact that you know you have to be aggressive and all of that, is it harder to play with someone you have spent so much time with?  Is it easier?
LAURA DAVIES: One of the reasons I'm so disappointed with my finish is I'm not playing with Annika tomorrow.  For a while there I had, not the upper hand, but I felt like for a second if I can knock it in the middle of 16, I was taking a little bit of a part in the tournament for a second.

If she's two groups in front of you, she would go on her merry way.  The only way you can feel yourself and maybe worry her a bit is by hitting next to her.  I'll be in the third or fourth next group, and she won't hear the cheers for my birdies.
Q.   Any more questions?  Thanks a lot, Laura.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT