MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 9, 2005
Laura Davies
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.   Laura, thanks for coming in and speaking with us.  Great playing today.  Can you take us over your scorecard.

(Scorecard done.)
Q.   Just talk about your day in general, 5 under, tied for the lead right now.  You played well last week?
LAURA DAVIES: Things are going well.  My confidence is up and I'm holing some putts.  I have been playing like this for a very long time, but I haven't been able to hole anything.  It gets you down.  That's what my year has been to this point.  Obviously last week on the second round, I holed lots of putts.
Q.   Is that all it takes, Laura?
LAURA DAVIES: Putting has always been that way to me.  Obviously I have hit pretty atrocious shots.  Last year it wasn't so clever.  It does get you down after a while.  You hit 14, 15 greens and shoot level par, and the others shooting 4 and 5 under, that's the whole game.
Q.   Laura, how much of this is a carryover from last week, and is it possible to carry over?
LAURA DAVIES: It's been since Atlanta really.  I went to Austria and finished third that week and third last week.  It's an accumulation of good thoughts.  My short game has been really good today.
Q.   We just had a Hall of Fame celebration in here for Webbie.  Is there another one possible on Sunday?
LAURA DAVIES: Well, obviously there's a certain Sorenstam out there that's hard to beat, but I think if I can finish better than Annika this week, then maybe.
Q.   Have you done anything different on the putting?
LAURA DAVIES: My caddy is lining it up for me.  I have two caddies and one has started doing that for me.  The putts have gone in.  You don't shoot 62 without holing lots of putts.
Q.   Have you had a caddy line it up before?
LAURA DAVIES: A few times but never sustained for five or six weeks, which has been what it's been now.
Q.   Of the lining of the putts?
LAURA DAVIES: Yeah, lining the putt up for me.
Q.   Laura, you were always a favorite at DuPont Country Club.  will you talk about the success you had there and then when it was moved over here?
LAURA DAVIES: I love DuPont.  There was three wins in the run of four years, but I haven't done well at sort of the last four or five tournaments.  If I had to move, I was pleased we were moving to such a good golf course.  This place is fantastic and it suits my game.  It's a proper     DuPont was too, but this was following out from that and probably one notch out.
Q.   And you must like the par 5s?
LAURA DAVIES: The 2nd and the 11th, that's just ridiculous, it shouldn't have been that long for us.
Q.   Where would you like to see it?
LAURA DAVIES:  Around 508, so I can get there in  two and nobody else can.  598 is unbelievable.
Q.   You hit driver, driver at 11 today, and it was short and wet?
LAURA DAVIES: That was unbelievable.  The fairways are so soft.  I had about a 310 yard drive today, and it was on a bit of a downhill.  Probably could have gotten a little closer today if I had a better stance.
Q.   Was that the right shot, driver off the deck for the second, or were you trying to see if you could get it?
LAURA DAVIES: I was just trying to see if I could get it.  I'll be trying all bloody week, I tell you.
Q.   You talked last week about the Hall of Fame and that you should make it.  Would it be good for you to get it over with?
LAURA DAVIES: Believe you me, nothing would please me more to get it over with and then you just relax.  It's something I would like to do, and obviously, it's difficult to do, because I have to either win two or obviously a Major, and to win the Majors you're on the toughest fields here.  If you looked to the stats, you would say time is running out, but I know how well I'm playing.  If I went the last ten years of my career without a win, I would be a very sad puppy.
Q.   Annika said the first round counts for 10 percent of the tournament.  Do you agree with that?
LAURA DAVIES: I think it's 25 percent.  I'm good with numbers though.  Annika has never been good with numbers.  It's all about Sunday morning, are you within striking distance.  The first three rounds of the tournament really are irrelevant.  You've got to be within three or four of the lead.  If you come to win a tournament, which 90 percent of the players here are trying to win it, that's what you have to do.  I always try to get somewhere in position to win.  It hasn't happened    I mean, the last few weeks I have been in position to win every week, but I haven't done it.  That's my goal is to wake up Sunday morning with a chance.
Q.   Any more questions for Laura?

Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT