ADT CHAMPIONSHIP
November 21, 2003
Laura Davies
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LAURA DAVIES:  Very different day than yesterday, very up-and-down day.  This golf course, I keep saying, you can play identical shots and walk off with a birdie on one day and hit a similar shot on another day and end up with a bogey.  It's a hard test of golf.  80% of the shots into the greens are pretty scary.  Some of the tee shots are very scary too.


Q.   You said on the telecast you put a new putter in the bag?

LAURA DAVIES: Yeah, I got (inaudible) one in Japan.  I was putting well with the one I had.  I just figured time for change.  I was making some putts, but it wasn't consistent, and this putter felt really good, it is quite heavy with a soft face and the combination seems to be working. 


Q.   (Inaudible)?

LAURA DAVIES: I love this course.   I think it is a great course.  Last year it called me.  I hit it in the water 11 times.  It is going to sort you out.  There's going to be occasions where you are in trouble, and you are going to make bogeys.  You can't play this golf course without making bogeys, you'd have to be very lucky because you cannot hit 18 years, damn near impossible.  It's just --  you got to hang in there and 4 over par, I didn't think about anything.  I just thought about playing golf and seeing what happens and as it turned out I had 7 birdies and a bogey from that point on.


Q.   You kept your composure even though it started off badly.

LAURA DAVIES: You just got to realize when you see yesterday on the telecast when I got home I got to see Annika and Se Ri and Karrie all the really great players, taking big numbers on this course, so that tells you that it's not your average week.  You don't need to make 50 birdies to win this tournament.  You need to make a lot of pars and as few mistakes as possible. 


Q.   (Inaudible)?

LAURA DAVIES: It's great.  Since he started we've had a second and a third, and an 8th or something.  We're going really well.  He's reading the greens great.  We get on well.  He's a good laugher, he's always saying something to make you laugh out there.  Mick, Michael Seablon is his name.

We started off in Springfield.  First week we finished second in that rainout when we had a chance to win suddenly it didn't quite work out.


Q.   Did you ever get a warning signal in your own mind or in your game when you are getting ready to win about when it is coming?

LAURA DAVIES: I used to have it a lot more often.  Luckily I won one every year since I turned pro.  I won the first, well, big tournament of the year, Australia Masters, big tournament for the European Tour, and you know, that made the year quite relaxed.  Certainly, I have had my chances this year.  I think I have had six seconds now, so you know, it's not great, but it's just shows consistency. 


Q.   When you are out there, do you think whenever you are out there on a weekend do you think about winning when you are in position or do you just think about the next ball?

LAURA DAVIES: From the minute I tee it up the first day I am thinking about winning and it's -- the disappointment hits you when you know you can't win, so that's all I am interested in.  Finishing second is okay.  It's sort of pays the mortgage, whatever you want to say, but really and truly if you are -- if you consider it a career and not a job, you know, this to me, I just love to win golf tournaments.  Finishing second is lovely but it has to be about the winning. 


Q.   Do the majority have that attitude?

LAURA DAVIES: I feel I have been lucky to win most times. When you win lots of times it sort of breeds  -- you just know what it feels like when you win and you want to win it again and again.  But there's probably some players that -- certainly not this week   -- but on the Tour in general that are just out there to try and you know, it's a job, they are just trying to make money.  When you have won a certain amount, it becomes titles that you are after.  Sounds silly, but it's a fact. 


Q.   Enjoying playing as much as ever?

LAURA DAVIES: Yeah, the last bit of three, four months that I have had this year, it's been great.  I have been hitting it well, starting to putt well, that makes all the difference. 


Q.   (Inaudible)?

LAURA DAVIES: Japan on Monday and that's it. 


Q.   End of the season?

LAURA DAVIES: Well, no, it's been a long three, four months, been a long time so I am looking forward to getting home. 


Q.   All the attention of Annika playing in the men's tournament, but you played with the men years ago?

LAURA DAVIES: Yes, I played in quite a few tournaments, yeah, played in the Korean Open this year and Freddie's thing and -- what was it called -- Johnnie Walker Challenge with Vijay and Ernie and Jesper, but it was 72 holes, but it was a weird thing you played in four countries in six days out in Asia.  And next week obviously with the men's tournament, so...


Q.   Six days, how did that work?

LAURA DAVIES: They had a private jet, you just went from Thailand to Singapore to China and played four tournament rounds, 4 different golf courses six days.


Q.   Four players?

LAURA DAVIES: No, 16 of us, I think. 


Q.   With the international flavor of the Tour these days,  how important do you think it is for women's golf that an American gets up there prominently?  Do you see anyone coming along?

LAURA DAVIES: You have got some of the finest players Juli Inkster, Meg, Beth, some of the finest players in the world still, they are not Annika Sorenstam but no one is -- Annika is the only Annika.  Obviously Karrie has had a run, Se Ri has had a good run.  The Americans are strong in force, it's just they haven't got that one player that's dominating at the moment.  But they dominated the LPGA Tour for the first 40 years of the LPGA, so it will come a time when someone will step up and take over from Annika and it could be an American.  It's more likely to be a Korean or a Swede, or a Spaniard because the young Spaniards are coming out, so next personality really on the LPGA Tour, I don't think makes any difference because it is the World Tour.  There's every nationality represented in pretty much every place they play the game seriously around the world.


Q.   Do you think does it make any difference in the United States?

LAURA DAVIES: No, what could be better than Annika Sorenstam playing in your tournament at the moment?  The fact that she is Swedish really doesn't -- I wouldn't have thought detract from the American's point of view, but I just think if you can get Annika to play then you have got the world's best player, that's good enough.  If she was an American maybe it would be a bonus, but she's Swedish, thank God for the Solheim Cup. 


Q.   Any young Americans that you are impressed with?

LAURA DAVIES: The obvious one Michelle, but she's young to be a factor at the moment.  I don't know I am sure there's some great young university players out there at the moment, college players, but I don't  -- Heather, you have got those players who are very good but at the moment they are not necessarily -- they are young girls but -- yeah, certainly Laura, if she gets it right she's a formidable player. 


Q.   (Inaudible) talk about your approach and just how it works for you?

LAURA DAVIES: I don't like practice rounds.  They are boring, take too long, waste of time, other than that they are a great idea. 


Q.   (Inaudible)?

LAURA DAVIES: It's lovely.  We're actually staying in one of the houses.  We are not actually in the hotel itself, we are about a 50-yard walk from it.  It's like the whole area, it's just magnificent, yeah. 


Q.   With all the attention on Karrie, and Annika, any part of you that kind of felt left out or motivated to get back in the main spotlight?

LAURA DAVIES: Obviously when you were considered a champion you don't like to be forgotten about.  I very definitely have been forgotten about in many aspects, only little things, yeah, I am no longer a big fish.  I am one of the little fish now.  When you have attention and everyone has been all over you through all the years and I had it, and the last four, five years (inaudible) just because you have a couple of good round doesn't make you back there, you have to be consistent for two, three years before (inaudible).


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT