MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 6, 2012
Corbin Mills
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What did you make of it?   What were your thoughts coming in, and what happened?  
CORBIN MILLS:   I didn't hit it well today, but I had a great time doing it.   You know, I didn't really get caught up in what I was scoring or anything like that, I just enjoyed the moment.   You can't really get down on yourself whenever you're in my position.   You've got to soak it all in and try and take as much from it as you can, and I think I did that.   
You know, it's tough.   First kind of Tour event, and it's a pretty big one.   So I took a lot from it, and I was happy to be here.  
   
 Q.   Was the wind more of a factor today than yesterday?  
CORBIN MILLS:   It was, but I just didn't hit it very well today.   
   
 Q.   When you showed up, did you feel like you were going to play pretty well?  
CORBIN MILLS:   I did.   I felt fine.   I think I got off to a bad start and didn't really get down on myself, but it just wasn't there.  
   
 Q.   You had to feel good about the birdie on 12.   
CORBIN MILLS:   Oh, yeah, exactly.   I thought about that after I made double on 13.   I thought, I made birdie on 12.   
   
 Q.   What did you hit on 12?  
CORBIN MILLS:   Pitching wedge to probably about five feet.   
   
 Q.   And you hit it under a tree on 13?   
CORBIN MILLS:   I hit it left and had to take an unplayable, then hit it a lot more after that.   
   
 Q.   Are you going to hang around?   What are you going to do?  
CORBIN MILLS:   I haven't decided yet.   I'll hang around for at least another day.  
   
 Q.   And then you're going down to Hilton Head?  
CORBIN MILLS:   I am.  
   
 Q.   On Sunday?  
CORBIN MILLS:   I'll probably head down there Sunday night, try to get a little work in before.  
   
 Q.   We're trying to figure out how to do the diary now that you're not playing anymore.   Are you going to be around where we can talk to you?  
CORBIN MILLS:   I think so.   I haven't talked to my folks or anything yet, but I should‑‑ I'm definitely going to hang around tomorrow.   Why not?   This little thing right here gets me in here.  
   
 Q.   Could you kind of assess the whole experience, being part of it for two rounds?   
CORBIN MILLS:   It was special.   I think that I had a lot of‑‑ I didn't really have a lot of expectation on how I was going to play, but I knew all the history behind it, I mean, about the golf course and stuff.   I'm not going to get down on myself.   I am just going to learn from it, and hopefully next week will be better.   I think it's going to be a lot more laid back.   I think this was a good test.   It feels good.  
   
 Q.   You're scheduled to go to Hilton Head and play next week and then what?  
CORBIN MILLS:   ACC's, back to college golf.  
   
 Q.   Are you looking forward to that?  
CORBIN MILLS:   I am.   I'm excited.   I'm really excited for probably the next three or four weeks.   A lot of golf and a lot of fun, ready to get back with the teammates and have some fun.   
   
 Q.   How have you played Old North State in the past?  
CORBIN MILLS:   I've played there well.   I played better last year, keeps getting better.   I like the golf course, and it's good.   I think it sets up good.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT