MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 5, 2012
Corbin Mills
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CORBIN MILLS:   I had a blast today.   It was really awesome.   I was happy with my game.   I think everything was good.   I think I need to be a little more aggressive putting, but I was just kind of in a dream out there all day, and it was a lot of fun.  
   
 Q.   Was it everything you thought it would be?  
CORBIN MILLS:   It was, and more.   It was.   It was great.   
   
 Q.   What was the more part?  
CORBIN MILLS:   Just the fact that I was actually out there and realized that I finally was, which was really cool.  
   
 Q.   Have you been able to get your head around how big this is?   
CORBIN MILLS:   I have.   You know, I kind of get caught in the moment a couple times today just realizing and just being thankful for being here.   It's awesome.   
   
 Q.   Who did you get advice from before you came this week?   
CORBIN MILLS:   A lot of people.   The Clemson guys helped me a lot.   I played Monday with Zach, Webb Simpson and Scott Stallings.   They helped me a lot.   I had a lot of fun there and just had some really good caddies coming down here for practice rounds and stuff.   It felt good.  
   
 Q.   How difficult is it to learn this golf course?   
CORBIN MILLS:   It's pretty difficult, but I put a lot of work into it, so I feel comfortable with that.   It's just‑‑ the main thing was the crowds and everything like that.   I had a blast.   
   
 Q.   Talk about all the movement around you and people standing almost on top of you on the tee box.   
CORBIN MILLS:   It was actually a little wilder than the practice rounds and stuff like that.   I think I got used to that in the practice rounds and it got a little more comfortable.   But the first tee was still nerve wracking today.  
   
 Q.   Was making the cut your goal coming in?  
CORBIN MILLS:   My goal was just to have fun and play good golf and see what happens and stay in the moment, and we'll see what happens.   
   
 Q.   Walk through the round a little bit, the high moments and low moments.   
CORBIN MILLS:   I think I was on a high all day.  
   
 Q.   Well, the individual holes.   
CORBIN MILLS:   No, I think that‑‑ I made a few bogeys, and it was just simple mistakes.   I don't think I did anything terrible today.   I just played solid golf.   I'm happy with it.  
   
 Q.   How about the birdies?  
CORBIN MILLS:   They were good.   I just hit good shots.   I think I gave myself some opportunities to make more birdies, but still, just a little nerve wracking on the greens.   But I played solid.  
   
 Q.   It's hard to be aggressive on these greens.   
CORBIN MILLS:   It's very hard to be aggressive because leaving yourself two feet is good.   Pars are really good out here, especially for me.   
   
 Q.   Was it a long golf course today?  
CORBIN MILLS:   It played pretty long today.   It wasn't getting much roll.   Looks like we've got some weather coming in, too.   I'm fine with that.   I feel like I hit it long enough to give myself a chance, and I'm doing it.  
   
 Q.   Does this help your confidence?  
CORBIN MILLS:   Oh, a ton, yeah.   Yes, sir.   
   
 Q.   That's going to serve you well in‑‑  
CORBIN MILLS:   I think so.   
   
 Q.   Did you get any sleep last night?  
CORBIN MILLS:   I did.   I slept really good.   I've been tired.  
   
 Q.   Are you still up in the crow's nest?  
CORBIN MILLS:   I'm not, actually.   I moved out.  
   
 Q.   Where are you?  
CORBIN MILLS:   Just to a cottage down the street.  
   
 Q.   What kind of job did Jordan do?  
CORBIN MILLS:   He did a great job.   We had a blast.   He did really good.   I knew he'd do a good job.   He stayed focused all day, and we had a good time.  
   
 Q.   Any specific things that he helped you with?  
CORBIN MILLS:   Yeah, there was a putt on 17.   But everything.   He's done a fantastic job.  
   
 Q.   How much of a bonus is it to finish strong with a birdie on 17, two great shots on 18?  
CORBIN MILLS:   I think so.   I think so.   I still feel good about it, and it was nice finishing the way I did.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel like (inaudible)?  
CORBIN MILLS:   Probably not.  
   
 Q.   Did the Clemson guys ever get together as a group or any plans to get together, like Lucas or those guys, to kind of hash out anything?  
CORBIN MILLS:   I'm not sure.   Jordan is staying with Jonathan, so I'll probably see him some.   I'm not real sure yet.  
   
 Q.   Did you have a Masters moment where it sunk in, where you thought, this is for real?  
CORBIN MILLS:   Probably the first tee shot, walking down the first tee after I hit my shot, it was amazing.   It just felt great.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT