CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
August 15, 2015
Maria McBride
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. So take me through 13 with the ace. What did you hit? What was your number? And were you able to see it go in?  
MARIA McBRIDE: Yeah, yeah, we were actually able to see it go in, which was nice. It's not often you usually are able to see it, but I had I think it was 168 to the pin, and I hit a 6‑iron, and a perfect little draw, and it pitched right in front of‑‑ straight towards the pin, right at the front edge of the green, and just released perfectly in the hole.  
   
 Q. So you see it go in; what's the reaction on the tee box like?  
MARIA McBRIDE: Oh, it's great. It's so rarely that they actually go in, so to see it go in, yeah, you just get a shock, and obviously very, very exciting.  
   
 Q. What number is that for you in competition and then in your golfing career?  
MARIA McBRIDE: Golfing career it was my fourth, third one in competition. I had one actually at the Tour Championship way back in '99 in Mobile, Alabama, so that was the last one I had, so it's been a while since I had one.  
   
 Q. First one since '99?  
MARIA McBRIDE: Yep.  
   
 Q. In all of golf, even practice rounds?  
MARIA McBRIDE: Yep.  
   
 Q. Funny how that works, right?  
MARIA McBRIDE: Yeah, it is.  
   
 Q. You've had a pretty solid year thus far. Are you looking forward to Solheim or was that one of your big goals entering the season?  
MARIA McBRIDE: No, it wasn't. I mean, last two years has been pretty bad, and at the start of the year obviously with my status that I had, I couldn't really get into events, and started off the season not playing too great, and then now I've been playing very solid and very happy with my game, and I'm a vice captain. If I play well enough and they want me on the team, obviously I would love to play. But all I can do is play golf and I know I'll be there either or, either vice captaining or if I play, but right now I'm not thinking about the play. I just have to play and see what happens.  
   
 Q. How excited are you to be a vice captain on that team?  
MARIA McBRIDE: It's very exciting. I mean, it's interesting to kind of be on the other side‑‑ not the other side of the ropes, you're still inside the ropes, but being involved in a different way, and it's fun. It's interesting. I mean, there's four Swedes, four of us that are talking to each other and figuring out teams and the course setup and everything like that, so it's fun.  
   
 Q. With you being over here a little bit more than Carin is, does she kind of rely on you for a little bit of advice being out here playing with these girls every week?  
MARIA McBRIDE: Yeah, yeah, I think it's actually a great combination. I mean, Sophie obviously played in Europe, too. I know she's caddying more than playing. So yeah, she keeps an eye out there, and I keep a little bit of an eye on out here and see what's going on and see the trends and able to talk to them and see how they're feeling.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT