RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 31, 2015
Maria McBride
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. By far, the best round of the day.   
MARIA McBRIDE: Well, I guess with this kind of course, I didn't play great yesterday. Figured out a few things on the range last night. It just felt so much better. Today, tougher conditions, to have a chance to make the cut, if you have a decent score, 2‑under, you never know, you might slip in there.   
Stayed away from the bunkers. There's so many bunkers and you can't do that on this course. I think that was what happened and I got a few good breaks, bounced over bunkers. Played par 5s pretty good. Started raining on the toughest holes on the course.  
Just hang in there, stay strong, and I made birdie on the two toughest holes today. Just confident all of the sudden and you really need to trust your shots out there today in this wind.  
   
 Q. How do you block out conditions? How bad is this?  
MARIA McBRIDE: I think it's one of the worst rounds I've ever played condition's‑wise. Probably the best I've ever played in my career. To shoot that score, knowing obviously that I had to shoot a good score to make the cut.  
   
 Q. How do you even prepare physically and mentally? Do you look at the forecast?  
MARIA McBRIDE: Yeah, obviously. But I'm one of those persons that can't have too many layers on. Waterproof jacket doesn't work for me. So I just prepare as good as you can; as long as you're not cold, it's fine; as long as your hands are all right. I had gloves with me.  
Yesterday we thought we probably need to shoot 5‑udner. But today obviously with the conditions, we thought, 3‑, 4‑under might be okay. But 6‑under day was obviously really exciting.  
   
 Q. Chip‑in on 18?  
MARIA McBRIDE: The wind is obviously so strong right‑to‑left on 18; and pouring down, getting dark. I pulled it a little bit left and was lucky to stay out of the bunkers again. Hit a 5‑iron for a second shot and pulled it again with the wind exaggerates everything. I said, you know, make sure I get it up on the green and 2‑putt because we are going to make the cut. I just hit a great chip and it rolled in.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT