SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
May 28, 2015
Maria McBride
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   When did you find out the news?
MARIA McBRIDE:   I knew from Hawaii when she asked me, and obviously I was interested.

Q.   A team of all Swedes, too.   That's pretty neat; right?
MARIA McBRIDE:   It is neat, yeah.   I think, you know, you're always going to have people complaining about it, thinking why so many Swedes, but you know, we're so spread out, and there's a lot of Swedes that always played in Solheims, so to have opportunity to be vice captains, whatever, I think it's a great opportunity.   And even if there's four Swedes, we all know everybody from everywhere, all the tours, different countries, so I can't see that being a problem.

Q.   Do you want to be captain one day?
MARIA McBRIDE:   I would like to be a captain one day.   Obviously you have to be a vice captain first before you can be a captain, so I'm happy I have the opportunity this time, and then we'll see in the future if that can happen.

Q.   What kind of captain will Carin about?
MARIA McBRIDE:   I think she will be a great captain.   She's got a lot of insight.   She's played on the tour for a long time.   She was the vice captain last time.   And I think she will‑‑ you know, she will be‑‑ I think she will be a strong captain.   She will listen to the players, but I think she will have, you know, her own commitment and her own power in there, too.

Q.   It seems like the European side does a really good job of keeping kind of continuity of the leadership team in kind of grooming the next captain.   Would you say that's accurate?
MARIA McBRIDE:   I would say so, yeah.   I think by helping being a vice captain and also having a lot of active players being vice captains and then leading up to captaincy, I think that's a great way to doing it.

Q.   What do you attribute the success of the European team in the Solheim Cup, the last two?
MARIA McBRIDE:   I think we're making a lot more putts.   I think that's really where it comes down to.   It seems like every time where the team is just rolling in these putts, the important ones and putting pressure on the other team, that seems to be very important.   And then also, you know, we're having great teams, for sure especially in Europe we have a lot of new young players coming up.   I think that's been great.   It will be great for the European team going forward as well.

Q.   Really good play in Dallas and feeling pretty good about where your game is at apparently?
MARIA McBRIDE:   I do, actually.   Yeah.   I do feel really good about it.   It is fun that I can get my game together.   I've been not playing very good lately, so it's nice when I finally can get my game together and then play well.

Q.   What changed lately?   Why are you playing so well right now?
MARIA McBRIDE:   I think just being more committed in myself, trusting myself and believing in my game.   I've been playing well, but I have not been able to score, so I think that's been the big part, you know, just trusting it and being a little bit more aggressive in my play.

Q.   Any new swing changes or anything you're working on?
MARIA McBRIDE:   I have.   I started working with David Leadbetter in May last year.   So I've been working with him for a while, and I found that the swing changes started to work already the beginning of the year, but I didn't really test it enough and be aggressive with my play, so now finally I'm putting it all together, so hopefully I can keep on doing what I'm doing.

Q.   Do you think it'll be more nerve wracking as a vice captain or playing?
MARIA McBRIDE:   Playing is just awful.   Playing is really, really nerve wracking.   I mean it will be as a vice captain, too, but at least I'm not holding the club.   I'm not making the putt.   I'm not hitting the ball, so in that regard all we can do is give support and give help and listen to our players and we'll see what happens.

Q.   Is that the most nerve wracking that's ever been on the golf course for you?
MARIA McBRIDE:   Oh, yeah, yeah.   That is really awful, in a good way, I should say.   The first tee in the Solheim is very, very stressful, but it's a great experience, great feeling.

Q.   What about that golf course?   What have you seen in that golf course?   Have you been there?
MARIA McBRIDE:   I haven't been there yet, but I think‑‑ I don't know if the course makes such a big difference anymore.   Everybody is so versatile with everything.   Even the LPGA players going over, playing in Europe and the European players playing in America.   I just think you have to set it up a little bit to kind of the team that you have and see, do you want it kind of a more tricky course or do you want it open with less rough.   So I think you just have to look at that rather than the actual course itself.

Q.   Americans keep trumpeting that they're the underdogs.   The Rolex Rankings would say otherwise.   What do you think?
MARIA McBRIDE:   Yeah, I think it's a bit of both.   I think, yeah, if you look at rankings and everything, the Americans should be ahead of us.   But I think everything evens out more and more.   Like I said before, the players are becoming so good, a lot of the European Tour team is playing more out here.   So you know, in that regard I think it's also hard to say because the LPGA ranks higher in Rolex Rankings than LET, so we have a lot of good girls playing in Europe.   But it's hard for them to move up in the rankings when the LPGA is stronger in the rankings. 
So I think, you know, it's just really even keel and it just comes down to the play for the week.

Q.   What was the conversation with Carin like when she told you you would be a vice captain?
MARIA McBRIDE:   No, it was really, really great.   I mean I told her that I was interested.   I didn't know what opportunity I would have.   She called me up and said, you know, I'm going to go for‑‑ I'm going to have three vice captains this year, which she's had a lot of conversation with Paul McGinley and asked him about, you know, he had five vice captains, just to kind of figure out what's a good scenario, what's a good idea.   And she felt with me being still out here, keeping an eye on the European players out here and I see what's going on and I can do a lot of stuff with the girls out here that Carin can't.   So she felt that having me helping her out would be a good idea.

Q.   How tight are the four of you, captain and vice captains, all growing up in Sweden?   Are you all pretty close?
MARIA McBRIDE:   We're fairly close.   I mean we're close in age, and we obviously I played a lot of‑‑ I played some amateur golf with Annika obviously and I was out here when she was at her peak, and Carin I know for a long time as well.   Sophie I kind of got to know more out here playing on the LPGA.   So we're close.   We know each other really well, and I think that's a good asset, too.

Q.   Perfect.   Thank you so much. 
MARIA McBRIDE:   Okay.   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT