VOLUNTEERS OF AMERICA NORTH TEXAS SHOOTOUT PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 3, 2015
Maria McBride
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Nice playing.   11‑under, currently tied for second right now.   How are you feeling coming off the course?
MARIA McBRIDE:   I feel great.   Yeah.   Feel very, very good.   You know, I've had a tough couple years, so it's been not really getting into events the beginning of the year because of my status or category that I'm using, so it's been great to come out here and really, really play solid, great golf this week.

Q.   What was working for you throughout the course, almost an eagle on 18?   I know your caddy mentioned you left a few short birdies, but obviously very successful on the course.   What was working?
MARIA McBRIDE:   I think just overall.   I mean I've had pretty big problems with my tee shots, and tee shots I'm really, really starting to trust my tee shots, and that makes a huge difference because obviously you're hitting shorter irons into the greens and you're hitting it from the fairway, which I've struggled to do.   So just overall very solid and, yeah, everything really. 

Q.   This is your best finish since I believe 2011.   Was there anything in particular you've been working on with your game itself?
MARIA McBRIDE:   I have changed coach.   I'm working with David Leadbetter, and he's really, really helped me a lot with changing my swing a lot and getting more aggressive with my swing again.   I was too defense I have and not really trusting my game. 
So with that, being more aggressive, it just feels so much better.   And that's how I used to play and that's when I came out here I was an aggressive player and made a lot of birdies, and that's what I need to get back to.

Q.   Okay.   When did you start working with him?
MARIA McBRIDE:   I started in May last year, so it's been pretty much a year.

Q.   Okay.   So kind of now just starting to get a little bit more comfortable with it?
MARIA McBRIDE:   Yeah.   Exactly.

Q.   So the earlier rounds and then coming today was there a change in game plan or mindset for your caddy with your strategy?
MARIA McBRIDE:   Throughout the week? 

Q.   Yeah, just coming into today?
MARIA McBRIDE:   No.   We said we've been aggressive the whole week.   Not aggressive, silly aggressive, but just being aggressive going at pins and trusting my game.   And I think with that it's been, you know, I've just kept on doing it because there's no need to kind of step back and feeling more protective with my game.   I've got nothing to lose and just go out there and do the same thing again.

Q.   Does this finish today kind of give you a little more confidence going into the next tournaments coming up?
MARIA McBRIDE:   Absolutely.   It's just showing me that that's how I need to play my game and that's what I need to trust.   And I got.   I got my game, and I need to trust my ability.

Q.   Does this improve your opportunities for playing also, in terms of earnings?   Do you get more money if you get into more events or anything like that, because you talked about you weren't getting into the events. 
MARIA McBRIDE:   Yeah, exactly because I was using my all‑time money list and that's category 14, which is obviously further down.   So with a lot of the first events of the year being limited, you know, I didn't get in. 
But yeah, hopefully I can get into, you know, obviously working towards the U.S. Open and all of those events and maybe British Open.   So we'll just have to see. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT