TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 9, 2019
Madison Akamnonu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Can you speak to the battles you had off-season and earning your spot in the starting lineup and of what that's meant for you?
MADISON AKAMNONU: You know, always being a starter is a great honor to me, to anybody obviously, to be a starter. The battles, everybody goes through battles, so it's just good to have competition, and you know, the back and forth to make sure each plays as good as possible.
Q. What's the most fun thing about this offense for you as a lineman?
MADISON AKAMNONU: Running the ball. I like to run the ball. I like to get pancakes, man. That's why we're here.
Q. Can you speak to the guys coming up, like Travis at left tackle, what have you seen from these guys being able to play at a high level?
MADISON AKAMNONU: Honestly, from like day one in spring ball, Coach Farmer, Coach Wells, we've always been taught we need to have at least ten people who can play at any given time. As long as we're ready, there's no problem. Like if somebody goes down, we all have somebody to step up and we feel just as comfortable having them.
Q. What do you see from Arizona defensively that can pose problems for you guys on their pass rush?
MADISON AKAMNONU: I was just watching some film honestly -- they have got a pretty solid D-Line. It's going to be pretty fun running the ball against them. They have got some good hands over there, some speed off the ball, but we'll be prepared for them.
Q. Nice to get Power Five opponent this week?
MADISON AKAMNONU: Honestly, it doesn't matter to me because it's the next team and this is the biggest game that we have. I mean, because it's the next game.
Q. Were you pleased with what the offensive line was able to do up front -- the interference?
MADISON AKAMNONU: I was pleased, but you know, we can always be better. That's how I see it. We're just back to the drawing board.
Q. What do you more experienced guys have to do to help kc and Weston and Zach get comfortable in the flow?
MADISON AKAMNONU: Whenever it's your first time playing, get the butterflies and whatnot, so just try to calm them down. Once they get their feet wet, they get warm to it, they understand how it goes and it's just like practice, if not even easier.
Q. How is Dawson taking control of the center position and what does he bring --
MADISON AKAMNONU: Dawson is doing a great job. He has great communication. There's nobody who is second guessing him and he's just, you know, leading the charge, whenever we get a big play, he's the first one down there already on the ball and everything and that just helps us go faster.
Q. For you, do you have to adapt at all to the new kind of offense that's very -- in the way that you play?
MADISON AKAMNONU: I mean, it's hard to say. I suppose, yeah, I did do some adaption, but it's new staff and just buy in and it was just easy.
Q. Can you describe Steve Farmer as a coach and how that's helped you that much better?
MADISON AKAMNONU: Coach Farmer, he's a great man. He's a guy that I can always go to, ask questions, he has an open door policy if anybody has any kind of problems, he's always there to help you out and I mean he's just a great dude to communicate with, he's helped us out on the O-Line, starters to freshmen.
Q. Is there something that he's really helped you --
MADISON AKAMNONU: My square pulls -- before, I was pretty bad at pulling. He's shown us a pretty decent way to pull and it's been pretty effective.
Q. Do you have a road tradition that you do every time, a superstition on the road that you keep?
MADISON AKAMNONU: I actually don't think I do, but I mean, some people on the team probably do. I say if I do have one, it would probably be making sure I play a lot of Chief (ph) on the plane. That's about it.
Q. Madison, especially being one of the big guys, how well have you handled the tempo offense so far?
MADISON AKAMNONU: I mean, spring ball and everything, so I feel like we handled it pretty well and I feel like, you know, it's just like practice and just how it was day one when we first started with this offense.
Q. Among you offensive linemen, who is generally the fastest guy to the ball or kind of the leader who is the one that the tempo bothers the least?
MADISON AKAMNONU: I would have to say either Terrence difficult or Travis. You know, it's great to see them running to the ball, asking for the ball from the wide-outs or anybody. You know, just making sure that we go even faster than before.
Q. What's impressed you most about that group of running backs behind you?
MADISON AKAMNONU: It's just the dog they have, honestly. Everybody is trying to fight for every inch they can get and it's just whenever you see that kind of fight in a person, it always makes you want to go harder for them.
Q. Have you gotten used to the tight end being next to you? I know talking to you earlier --
MADISON AKAMNONU: Yeah, definitely have. It was kind of weird at first -- it's kind of cool now.
Q. Can you tell the difference between tight ends?
MADISON AKAMNONU: It's just a body.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT