BREEDERS' CUP WORLD CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 4, 2006
Eddie Castrol
Charlotte Weber
Martin Wolfson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT










 EDDIE CASTROL:  Yeah.  I ride the same horse all the time.  Marty told me I got the same time.  I take it back.  The little push the horse, I take it hard, follow the number 14 horse.  I take a chance, you know, that's how it is. 


 MARTIN WOLFSON:  I was saying he wasn't beaten soundly.  He was beaten by two links.  The plane trip up usually takes me four hours.  It took them almost 20, and he couldn't go to the track except for one day, and he was quiet and he wasn't himself. 
 So I told Eddie today, I thought he was a little close in the race, and I just told him to duplicate the Sunshine Mile Race at Gulfstream, where he gets covered up and gets in pockets and can be 12, 14 links back.  That's his best race. 
 Then get to the outside and you couldn't have a better rider on him. 


 MARTIN WOLFSON:  He's very relaxed on a horse.  He's almost part of a horse, and I've -- ever since the last two years, he's ridden every major race for me with the spinster.  I brought him up here for the spinster, and he rode the filly last year for me.  Never really makes any mistakes, and if he does make a mistake, he'll tell me. 
 He's pretty flawless in all of his rides when he rides for me. 


 CHARLOTTE WEBER:  I would have to say being at a number of these before, for me it's right up there on the top.  I want to thank Eddie and Marty and Johnny Carnes, our farm trainer, who was the one who convinced me to put him back into training, and this team here before you is the team that has gotten the horse where he is. 


 Q.  A year ago today, this horse was in a 5 claimer at Aquaduct, wouldn't win.  What went on that Eddie convinced you to bring him back this year.  How close were you to retiring him at all? 
 CHARLOTTE WEBER:  We took him home to see how he would do.  Usually when a horse isn't performing well, we take him home, reevaluate him.  Marty came to me and he was interested, and I thought, freshen the horse, see we're he'll go.  We sent him down south, and that's how we put the team together. 

 Q.  This question either of you can answer.  Given the fact the lines very clearly show it's strictly a come-from-behind horse, at what point did you think you had a pace fast enough for the speed to come back and you would be able to rally, meaning at what point in the race did you start counting your blessings? 
 MARTIN WOLFSON:  I knew he was going to be -- make a real race of it.  At the top of the stretch, even though he goes wide, his best races are when he's fanned wide, but once they straighten out, he's got a really terrific turn afoot, and I didn't know if he'd get there, and then at the 8th pole I knew he was going win.  I didn't know how far he would win by. 
 EDDIE CASTROL:  Yeah.  I think a lot of heart.  He had lot of heart, the front.  At that time horse, put it outside, take a {chance}.  I take a lot of horse.  He punched good and then they -- I pass, I knew I would win. 

 Q.  Congratulations.  Question for Eddie.  How was the turf playing today?  It looks {thick}, like there's a little kickback.  Is it firm or soft?  Can you talk about the condition of the turf? 
 EDDIE CASTROL:  I ride it before this -- no, the turf was soft, maybe for the rain back a couple days.  The turf is okay.  Very good. 

 Q.  Marty, why did you want to specifically train this horse and what have you done?  Is there anything specific that got him going in this direction where he could win a race like this? 
 MARTIN WOLFSON:  I had run against him a few times some of my other horses and I've kind of followed him for the last few years, and I just wanted to change his tactics to where he could just have 3/8s of a mile kick, and I think that's what he's happier doing instead of being in the body of a race early, and then if you just let him run the last 3/8s, it's much more effective. 
 He relaxed a lot the first part of it now.  Some of his races that I watched, he was one race with "Bailey Earnings."  He was on the lead and he was probably just a little too tough.  He learned to relax a lot during the race.  


 MS. WEBER:  I'm just going to enjoy the moment.  I'll tell you about it later.  Going to enjoy it. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT