SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 18, 2019
Joaquin Niemann
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Joaquin Niemann. Thanks for joining us for a few minutes here at Sanderson Farms Championship. Coming off a pretty spectacular week last week at Greenbrier. Looking at your statistics and I wouldn't know where to start with everything you did right.
The biggest thing you did right was win the tournament. Congratulations on your first career PGA TOUR win.
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: Thank you.
THE MODERATOR: I know a lot of it is still kind of settling in. Just a few comments on what the few days has been like and how great it is to have gotten that first PGA TOUR win.
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: Yeah, it was pretty crazy. Still trying to answers all my message. It's a lot family and friends and people from Chile that been texting me and saying congrats. It's just crazy. For my country it was pretty big, because we are not used to have like really good like results in golf.
So this is pretty big. It's a good beginning, and hopefully try to get more players on PGA TOUR from Chile.
THE MODERATOR: One of the things you did so well was putting. Over a hundred feet of putts in a couple rounds. Did you feel a week like that coming on? Coming into the week did you feel like you were setting yourself up to have that kind of week?
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: Yeah, couple weeks before finishing the season last season I was putting really good, way better than I was used to putt. So I was feeling with much more confidence. When you putt better, I feel that every part of the game start getting better, too, because you start getting more confidence. You start being more aggressive. If you miss the green you think you can make up and down.
So thanks to the putter all my game has been going up.
THE MODERATOR: You're here this week at the Country Club at Jackson for Sanderson Farms. I know everyone is thrilled to have you here this week. You've had a chance to get out and see the golf course. How does this course set up for your game?
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: Yeah, you got to have a really good strategy. You got to try to hit those drivers in the shade because it's so hot here. You got to stay cool down.
Yeah, I mean, it's nice course. Greens are pure. I like bermuda greens, and these greens are one of the best I have played in bermuda. So going to be really fun week.
Also going to be a little crazy after last week, so just try to get focus again and start one more week again. Just a new week, so try to do the same as I did last week.
THE MODERATOR: Okay, with that, take a few questions.
Q. Big picture, curious if any Presidents Cup guys have reached out, if that's now on your radar to try and play your way into the conversations?
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: Yeah, it's obviously on my mind. I just can't wait to make that team. I know I still have a couple more weeks to go and a lot of good players that have a big chance to get on this team, so I just need to stay focused and trying to play my every week.
I know that every week one of those guys that are trying to get those spots can win and get the spots, so just need to stay focus and try to keep playing good weeks and wait until November to hopefully make that team.
Obviously try to win it.
Q. Obviously a big goal for guys is to get that first PGA TOUR win. Now that you've crossed that threshold and you know what it takes, what are your goals for the season?
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: Yeah, it was great. One of my goals for this season was try to get into the Masters and all the majors, and after the first tournament already got those checked. Yeah, it feels great.
Yeah, I mean, I just think that I just need to keep playing. Just feel like I didn't win so I just keep pushing and try to get better every time. I know there is a lot to work and get better, so just happy to get that win and keep practicing and enjoying everything.
Q. You know, in May you were outside the top 150 in the FedExCup, and then summer you played so well. What changed? Just the putting? Something mentally?
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: Yeah, I think one of the things was obviously my putter. I started working with Perfect Putt and start working -- I mean, more than the stroke it was more like a good way to practice. Before that I didn't have like any drill or any practice, challenge to do on the putting green. I just go to the putting green and just start putting.
Now I know what I have to do. I start working on left to right, right to left, straight putters, long putters, short putters. It give my more time on the putting green than I was used to it.
And also, I was a little more mental, too. I feel that I was struggling a little bit and I was saying to myself, like I was pushing down to myself. I needed to give it some more confidence and more, you know, more attitude.
So, yeah, I remember since the Wells Fargo that I talk with my coach about this, that I need to start like feeling better, like enjoying more. You are out here on the PGA TOUR and I was like, I don't know, I wasn't really happy because I wasn't playing great.
So I just try to keep enjoying again, and since there I feel that I start playing a lot better.
Q. What is it about that course that's a challenge?
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: Yeah, I mean, think it's the rough. If you don't hit the fairway this week you're going to be in big trouble to hit the greens. It's really hard to control the ball. It's going to go really, really far with no spin, so it's going to be tough to control the ball in the rough.
Q. What is your schedule this fall?
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: Playing Vegas, and then I'm going to Asia and Mayakoba for the moment. Yeah.
THE MODERATOR: You mentioned taking next week off. Is that going to be some time for you to really let the win sink in and do some stuff?
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: Yeah, be able to take some time with my friends, my family, and yeah, just try to enjoy that moment.
THE MODERATOR: Where will you be?
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: I'm going to go back to Jupiter.
Q. (Regarding young players on the TOUR.)
THE MODERATOR: How good is it the young players are playing so well?
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: I think since last season there is so many young players. This week there is a lot of young players. Past champion Cameron Champ is playing again. There is a lot of young players that are really good. I think they're going to keep coming more young players.
Also doing his debut is Akshay. So, yeah, that's great for him. Hopefully he can get a nice debut. Yeah, hopefully try to make it to PGA TOUR soon. He looks like a really nice player and he got a great swing.
Q. Does it get this hot in Chile?
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: No. Not even close. Here is too humid. It's too much.
Q. Any gift to celebrate the win? Buy anything?
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: I don't know yet. I'm trying to convince my family and my agent to let me buy something nice. (Laughter.)
THE MODERATOR: All right. Everybody good? Congratulations. Have a great week this week. Thanks for coming in.
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: Thanks.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT