HONDA CLASSIC
March 17, 2021
Joaquin Niemann
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  MARK WILLIAMS:   We'd like to welcome Joaquin Neimann into the interview room here at the 2021 Honda Classic.  Coming in off a T29 finish at THE PLAYERS last week.  Just how would you assess your game coming into this week?  It looks like you had a pretty successful solid tournament last week.
 JOAQUIN NIEMANN:   Yeah, it was a tough week.  I mean, it was one of those weeks that you've got to be hitting the ball really good to have a good week, and I was really proud of the way I played because I wasn't hitting the ball great, but I still was able to score low and have a good week, and really happy with that.
 MARK WILLIAMS:   You had a couple of back-to-back runner-up finishes in Hawai'i early in the year.  Has it been tough for you to kind of find that form again, a little bit of a break after playing there to come back and sort of find that same form?
 JOAQUIN NIEMANN:   I know that I'm not going to be having those kind of results every week.  If not I would probably be No. 1 in the world or something like that.  Yeah, I know you've got to be patient and you're not always going to have good weeks.  You're going to be medium weeks, bad weeks, and you just need to be prepared for that.  I know that if I just keep doing what I'm doing, I'm going to soon have one of those weeks and hopefully win.
 MARK WILLIAMS:   What sort of strategy will you employ this week at this difficult golf course to try and get your second victory on TOUR here?
 JOAQUIN NIEMANN:   I know it's going to be a tough week.  I know it's going to be blowing a lot of wind, so yeah, I mean, it's going to be hard for everybody.  I think it's going to be one of those weeks that I'm going to really enjoy being here because I live 10 minutes away from here.  I've got my family, my house, so it's going to be I think a more relaxing week, and hopefully we can play good, too.
 MARK WILLIAMS:   The Bear Trap is a common stretch of holes here, 15, 16, 17, a couple of par-3s in there.  How do you feel like that compares to other three-hole stretches on TOUR like the Snake Pit in Tampa and last week 16, 17, 18 and TPC Sawgrass, the Green Mile at Wells Fargo?  How does that compare and why is it so difficult?
 JOAQUIN NIEMANN:   Yeah, I think we're a little bit used to it because of last week, but yeah, here is -- if we get more wind, I think it's going to be a little bit more tough.  Those par-3s are a little bit longer, and yeah, I mean, it would be fun to be leading on a Sunday and have those four- or five-hole stretch and it can make it interesting.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT