A MILITARY TRIBUTE AT THE GREENBRIER
September 14, 2019
Joaquin Niemann
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I thought that was a good score today, particularly considering how difficult the hole locations were. Really tucked some of them.
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: Yeah, I think it was a really good round. Yeah, the pin location were a lot tougher. They were all like the back of the green like on top of a hill, so it was tough to get it close.
Yeah, just give me a lot of good chances and try to make some putt. I just leave a couple short, but really happy the way I played.
Q. You know we can talk about the birdies, but I was impressed with the par save to the 14th.
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: Yeah, 14, I always hit 3-wood there. I just hit it over the right bunker and give me like a 90 shot. It was like 315, 310 to that bunker and I don't know how far that 3-wood went, so, yeah, just was a really good bunkers save there.
Q. Your thoughts headed into the final round as the tournament leader.
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: It's a great feeling. I just need to be patient and keep the emotions down and enjoy tomorrow and have a really good round.
Q. All things considered, what do you feel like Sunday will look like?
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: Yeah, it's a great feeling. I'm on top of the leaderboard so I'm in a really good position for tomorrow. Yeah, hopefully have a good round tomorrow and enjoy.
Q. And 64s in 2017 and 2018 when you played here, so is there a number that you have in mind for tomorrow?
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: Love to shoot 6-under tomorrow, too, but I don't know. I just need to get out there. I really enjoy playing golf, so one more rounds to go. I'm in the final group, so, I mean, why not enjoy?
Q. It's crazy how much PGA TOUR experience you have for being so young. How have you learned to deal with frustration, when things aren't going your way, and for example and rain delay?
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: Yeah, I was playing all right. I mean, it was really tough day. After the rain delay I was like Oof, I'm going to get -- I had to warm up a little bit. I didn't know if we were going to be able to hit some balls on the range.
We did hit some balls on the range, so it was great to get some things figured out. I think it kind of like help me a little bit just try to figure out where the ball was going. Yeah, good finish after the rain delay.
Q. Going out in the final group, what are some things maybe from past experience that you'll rely on for when you might get a little bit antsy out there?
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: Yeah, for sure going to be a little nervous tomorrow, but, I mean, it's part of the game. I just need to -- like I say every time -- I just want get out there and really enjoy myself, hit the good shots, visualize my shot, and try to hit them.
Just want to be out there and have fun.
Q. Bonus question. I'm curious to date, what do you feel like your proudest accomplishment in golf has been?
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: Yeah, it's been great. Two years ago I was playing this same event as an amateur, and I never thought I was going to be leader in two years.
I'm just really happy the way I been playing. Yeah, it's been great.
Q. You've had success at this course the last couple years. What about this course allows you to have such consistently good rounds year in and year out?
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: Yeah, this course is really good for me. I mean, I been here for -- this is my third time. I really enjoy being here. It's a nice place, good weather, and the course is always in great shape.
So I really like this place.
Q. And the fact that you were in the final group today, final group tomorrow, is that familiarity, do you anticipate that being helpful to you or a disadvantage?
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: Yeah, today being in the final group I got a little nervous first couple holes. But, yeah, I mean, like during the round I start playing a lot better and feeling a lot better.
I think i kind of like get that mindset of being on the last group today. I think tomorrow it's going to be a lot better.
Q. Do you feel like you have a connection to this place given it was the first place you played, apart from the U.S. Open, on an invite to play on The TOUR?
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: Yeah, I mean, I just feel like I'm almost a member here. I just like being out here. Always when you play on a course that you know already it helps a lot. Yeah, I think this is the course I have played more on tour, so, yeah, helps a lot.
Q. If you were to win tomorrow, would that make the victory so much sweeter?
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: Oh, yeah, way better. (Indiscernible) Hopefully get it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT