A MILITARY TRIBUTE AT THE GREENBRIER
September 13, 2019
Joaquin Niemann
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Let's talk about your history here. Two Sunday 64s in back to back years; today you got a 62. What about this course are you so comfortable with?  
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: Yeah, I love this place. I remember it was my first tournament, my first PGA TOUR event. I play as an amateur in 2017, and 2018 it was where I got my card.   
It's really special place. I really have fun here. I also love the course.   
 Q.  Couple long, nice putts you had out there today.  
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: Yeah.   
 Q.  You changed something a few months back that has been coming together. What exactly was that?  
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: Yeah, I make a lot of good putters today. I start working with Perfect Putt since couple months ago, so, I mean, that's a big, big help to get it like good reads, good speed, all of that. Like visualize the putter.   
Just been working a lot on that and it's paying off, so I'm really happy to be in this position right now.   
 Q.  You've got to feel confident. You made it to the second leg of the playoffs last season. What exactly are your goals and intentions for this year, and specifically this fall where you have an opportunity to gather a lot of FedExCup points?  
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: Yeah, last season at the beginning I was is not playing great, so that moment was like I will hopefully get my card. And after the last five events I start playing really good golf, and the only thing I wanted was to win in that moment.   
Everything can change in one second to another. Here I would like to win and hopefully get my first win here that's a really special place for me.   
 Q.  Tremendous round. If we can get some comments on your play.  
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: Yeah, it was really solid round. I haven't make a bogey yet, so that's also great. Yeah, just keep playing the way I have been playing. Hit a lot of good wedges close to the pin, good driver, so really happy the way I been playing.   
Just keep it that way for the weekend.   
 Q.  Is there a different approach to this tournament and the upcoming tournament knowing the possible Presidents Cup pick is in the offing?  
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: Yeah, I would love to make the team for the Presidents Cup. I know there are a lot of good players right there for the first spots, so I just know that I need to play really good.   
Hopefully try to win an event before the Presidents Cup. Yeah, be a dream come true to be on this team.   
 Q.  What's your upcoming schedule before November 3rd, and was it laid out in a possibility to be a captain's pick?  
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: Yeah, I got couple more events playing, so I will be playing next week and then I am playing Vegas and Japan and Korea. I think that's the only -- I'm going to be playing those events before November 3rd.   
Hope get one win before that and get picked by the captain, by Ernie.   
 Q.  How much confidence can you take from having played well here in the past?  
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: Yeah, I know I can shoot low rounds. I mean, last two years I have a good round on Sunday, so hopefully same round on Sunday for this week.   
Yeah, tomorrow is also a big day. Try to be in a good position for Sunday and then try to give me a good chance.   
 Q.  Eagle on 12. Was it a putt you were just trying to get close and it happened to find the hole?  
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: Yeah, just trying to make two-putt there, and I got a little lucky and make it. It was huge putter, and also made some similar on 18.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT