TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 23, 2019
Joaquin Niemann
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just some comments on your round today.  Bogey-free, one of the few today.  Must have been a little tricky but not for you.
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: Yeah, I been playing really good this week.  Last couple days I shoot really good rounds, and I'm start to feeling really good with my game.
My putter start working pretty good this week, so I think that's it.  Just keep waiting, keep being patient for that putter to drop the putts.
Q. I think at the start of the week I guess you've just become more familiar with the golf course the more times you've played it towards the end of the week.
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: Yeah, first time I play this event and I really enjoyed it.  Really, really nice course.  Fits my game.  Yeah, I really enjoy this courses.  It was getting firm every day because after the rain couple days was pretty soft.
Q. How did you like all the clubhouse and all that?
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: It's nice.  I have no idea how was it before because first time here, but I like it.  It's really nice locker room.  They got ping-pong table that was fun.  Good food.
Yeah, enjoy this week.
Q. After your early success last year has your sophomore season been more of a struggle than you anticipated?
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: Yeah, I mean, it's not the season I was expected to, but I know that my game is there.  I been playing good.  I just need to be patient.
The middle of the season this year I start struggling with my game and I was like too worry about it.  Now just try to enjoy more again.  Just go out there, try to hit good shots, and have fun.
Q. Obviously some more golf left to play, but where you are right now would tie your best finish on tour.  Does that sort of give you a mental boost for the rest of the season?
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: Yeah, last couple weeks I been playing good.  My putter was a little bit off, but I think this week with my putter going good, that's why it was a good week.  I feel good for the next couple weeks I have coming.
Q. What sort of turned things around for you in terms of putting or game overall this week, recent weeks?
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: One thing that helps me a lot on my I putting was I start using that Perfect Putt.  That helps me a lot to get a good read.  It's all about the speed also.  Before when I miss a putter I always blame myself like I was a bad putter.  Now I know that I hit a good putter, and if I miss it it was probably because of the speed or didn't break much.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT