RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 27, 2018
Joaquin Niemann
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Nice playing so far this week; was there much difference between the golf course yesterday and what you found out there today?
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: Yeah, I played really, really great golf.  I think the course was really pretty similar.  I just didn't start pretty good and like couldn't -- I made a really good back nine, so really happy for my round, and looking forward to the weekend.
Q. You've accomplished one of your goals, you're going to be an exempt member of the TOUR in 2018 and 2019.  With just a month left trying to get into the FedExCup, you have to win to do that.  Do you add any more pressure to yourself by knowing that's on the horizon?
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: I don't think I have any pressure about that.  I've already got my card for the PGA, so I'm really happy.  The one thing I just need maybe to just win a tournament and get into the Playoffs, but yeah, other than that, I'm really happy for my game and for this year.
Q. What's been the key for you to get to this position?
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: I think just try to be the same player I was when I was an amateur, just try to do the same stuff and enjoy the game.
Q. What's been the biggest story of your play so far?
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: Yeah, it's been really good today.  I've been playing pretty good both days, pretty similar.  Just really happy for my game and looking forward to the weekend.
Q. What's kind of your impression of the golf course when you first saw it this week?
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: Yeah, it's a really nice course.  I've watched it on TV.  I know that it's a really nice course, really long.  It's one of those courses that I like.
Q. You're so young and it's so early in your PGA TOUR career, yet you seem to confident and calm out on the golf course.  How is that possible?
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: Yeah, I think just being out here, I'm really happy, so I just have nothing else to do but enjoy every moment here, and of course I do my best and try to do everything I can.
Q. How important has momentum been for you this summer?  You had a lot of really good results, and looking at another good one this week, as well.
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: Yeah, I think after getting my card for next year, I think I feel really relieved, so I think I just try to go out there and enjoy every second I'm out there on the course.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT