THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 2, 2018
Joaquin Niemann
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How would you describe the emotions of playing in the final group today?  
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: It felt very nice being out there in the last group being Saturday.  But, yeah, I feel really nice since the first tee.  I didn't play well enough, I think, but still really nice for what is coming tomorrow.  So I feel good for tomorrow.   
 Q.  How easy was it to shake off what happened at that last par-5 and give yourself a closing birdie coming in?  
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: Yeah, after that par-5 was a big chance of birdie being in the middle of the fairway and I just hit a bad shot and just everything happened there.  And I got a really big rough on the right side and just said to my caddie, let's make five from here and let's close it out.  I mean, yeah, that was a big chance to make birdie and I just made bogey and then that gave me a lot of also like confidence to finish with a strong birdie on 18.   
 Q.  What is your night going to be like going to bed with the lead at a PGA TOUR event -- or one back.  
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: Yeah, it will be nice to be for No. 1 -- or I mean for Sunday.  But, yeah, I feel I'm going to sleep really happy today.  And tomorrow hope to be a nice day.   
 Q.  Can you use all your past experiences at the Latin American Amateur and Sage Valley and all those wins that you've had to help you tomorrow?  
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: Yeah, I think that winning, you got to, you just got to get used to it.  Also it helps winning a lot of tournaments, junior tournaments or other kinds of tournaments.  But, yeah, it would be nice to get my first pro tournament here.  It would be really nice.   
 Q.  The leaderboard here has huge names.  Are you getting a sense that how composed you've been this week that you're not intimidated by that.  Can you give us an idea of your mindset going into tomorrow?  
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: Yeah, I think tomorrow just play 18 more holes.  It's a strong field on the leaderboard and I think everybody's going to go out there and try to make the most birdies possible.  So I think that I have to go low tomorrow to have a chance.   
 Q.  You have a lot to play for tomorrow in terms of status.  Is it hard to not let that distract what you're going to be doing on the course?  
JOAQUIN NIEMANN: No, I'm not thinking about that.  I'm just thinking on this week and trying to do my best on Sunday.  I'm not thinking about what can happen if I can get the status.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT