BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
August 29, 2020
Joaquin Niemann
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. How would you characterize that round for you out there today?
JOAQUIN NIEMANN:   Yeah, it was a really good round.  I hit the ball great.  I've been playing pretty much the same golf for three days in a row, so I'm pretty happy the way I'm playing, and yeah, I really enjoy playing these type of courses.  It's really tough so you've got to be really focused 18 holes, and we've got 18 more to go, so we'll see what happens.
Q. There's still some golf to be played, but with the way you played and where you finished, did you ever envision at the start of the day where you might be in one of the last couple groups on Sunday?
JOAQUIN NIEMANN:   Yeah, I know.  I mean, for what I've been saying the last couple days, the leader was just 2-under for two days, so yeah, I mean, I know that if I could score just under par, I was going to be right there, and just looking at the score right now, I mean, the leader is just even.  I think anything can happen tomorrow, and you've got to stay positive.  I'm playing great, so I think I'm in a really good situation.
Q. We had a couple 4-unders today, but in your opinion how good is that 2-under-par round you shot?
JOAQUIN NIEMANN:   Yeah, I think 4-under is kind of like the 59 that Scottie shot last week.  Yeah, it's a really different course so you've got to play really good to shoot under par.
Q. Also, you're right on the bubble to make it into the top 30 for the TOUR Championship.  How will that play into your mentality and your game tomorrow as you go out and you're in contention to win this thing?
JOAQUIN NIEMANN:   Yeah, I'll just try to do the same I've been doing.  I don't care if I don't make it to TOUR Championship or not.  I just want to play 18 more holes, try to hit the ball great and hit good shots, and after 18 just see what happens.
Q. Is that kind of what this course demands is just your entire focus, you can't really be thinking about other things, you've got to focus on each shot because it can hurt you at any point?
JOAQUIN NIEMANN:   Yeah, it's one of those courses you can start with four bogeys and then you just make a couple birdies and you're back in contention again.  Yeah, I think it's one of those courses that you've got to be really patient, and one birdie I think is almost like two.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT