NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v COYOTES
May 18, 2012
Dwight King
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Dwight King. 

Q.   Guys calling you 'Rocket' now?
DWIGHT KING:   No, no nicknames yet.   If I keep scoring, I'll be happy with it, just as long as we keep winning.

Q.   What is it like to be such a part of this series when a few months ago you were playing in the American Hockey League?
DWIGHT KING:   It's a dream.   You want to be part of the Stanley Cup Playoffs.   To be a contributor is even better.   Everything is coming around.

Q.   What is it like back home?
DWIGHT KING:   It's a small town.   5,000 people.   I'm sure everybody gets around the TV room and makes a night of it.

Q.   (No microphone.)
DWIGHT KING:   He didn't give me any grades, but said I played well.   Guess that's an A. 

Q.   For those that are surprised at the goals scoring, it's not uncommon for you. 
DWIGHT KING:   Yeah, once I have the opportunity, I feel comfortable.   Obviously in junior hockey, the AHL, it's something you develop and get comfortable with.   When you get in those situations, you want to bear down on those situations.   Right now they're going in, it feels pretty good.

Q.   Does it make any difference you were brought up for six games last year?
DWIGHT KING:   You learn a lot.   Obviously in those six games, I kind of got my feet wet, knew what I had to work on.   With the year that it took me to get back here, I feel I made pretty good strides in my game. 
When I got here, I was given a pretty good opportunity.   My confidence grew in that.   Coming into the playoffs, it's been great.

Q.   Do you see yourself as a goal‑scorer long‑term?
DWIGHT KING:   I wouldn't say a high‑number goal‑scorer.   When I get my opportunity, I feel just as comfortable as anybody else in those situations to find a way to put them in.

Q.   Would you describe your long‑term vision for yourself as a power forward in this league?
DWIGHT KING:   Absolutely.   I've got a pretty big frame.   For a big game, that's the type of game you have to play:   physical, strong, when you get your chances, put them in, too.

Q.   Did you get a heads up from anyone that you were going to be called up?
DWIGHT KING:   No hints really.   They had an injury the night before.   There was the possibility of someone going up.   Me and George went up.   It was exciting.   We kind of ran with it. 

Q.   Any player you tried to model your game after?
DWIGHT KING:   Growing up, Vancouver, I used to watch Todd Bertuzzi.   My favorite players was Peter Forsberg.   Those were two guys I watched growing up.

Q.   Were you surprised how much space you had coming out of the corner?
DWIGHT KING:   Yeah, a little bit.   They gave me an extra step.   I was more than happy to take it.   Yeah, it was good. 

Q.   What has hotel life been like? 
DWIGHT KING:   Been in a hotel for a couple months now.   We're definitely used to it.   Can't complain. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT