U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
June 15, 2017
Derek Barron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DEREK BARRON: That was fun, I had a good time today.  I was mad on the first tee.
Q. You striped it?
DEREK BARRON: Yeah, I did, I actually pounded it.  I was a little strong on that first play.  I had a little adrenaline going.
But the birdie on 2 calmed me down.  And then my driving iron on 3.  I had a great putt.  And I just got into a nice little rhythm there and just started getting a good feel for the course and the way the greens were responding and all that.  So all in all, very happy.
Q. How long was your putt on 2?
DEREK BARRON: About 15 feet, maybe, something like that.
Q. At what point do the nerves go away?  You got yourself into a flow?
DEREK BARRON: Probably -- I would say probably on 5, I started feeling good.  And I started getting into that feeling where I could really feel, like, my golf swing unfolding as I was swinging.  It felt like I had a good awareness of what I was doing today with that, and that's kind of what you're looking for.  That's why when people get nervous it's hard because you can't feel anything.  Your awareness of the club isn't there.  And luckily I was able to just battle all day.
I mean, that was probably the funnest 18 holes I've ever played because it was the most nerve wracking tee shot I've ever hit.
But, now, I think tomorrow could be a different story.  I started getting a good feel for the speed of the greens.  I'm sure it's going to be a little harder.  I know they can set this place up a little harder than today.  But just try to do the same thing tomorrow.
Q. The scores were pretty good today.
DEREK BARRON: Yeah, I got out there and I felt how soft the fairways were, even though it's long.  They're right, like all the guys on the Golf Channel were saying it doesn't quite play like 7700 yards, because you can cut corners.  You're not always shaping it with the hole.
Like on -- well, perfect example, like 10.  If you hit one 280, it's going to run another 70 yards and all of a sudden you hit it 350.
And the same with 11.  You can chew off those down slopes and make a huge difference.  I was fortunate today I got a couple good breaks, and I also made a couple really nice saves, especially on 17.  10 was really good, too.
Q. Did you drive in the junk on 17?
DEREK BARRON: Yeah, I hit it high right and I pitched out to about 112 yards and it was about five feet and I made it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT