AL DIVISION SERIES: YANKEES v INDIANS
October 4, 2007
Fausto Carmona
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ROB DOELGER:  Questions. 

 Q.  Can you talk about your feelings going into your first playoff start in your career? 
 FAUSTO CARMONA:  Feels great.  Looking forward.  It's an honor for me to be part of this playoff. 

 Q.  When they had sent you down to Buffalo and you were going to be going to the minor leagues, how did you work to overcome that mind-set when you came back and what did Roberto Hernandez tell you about your focus when you came back to the Big Leagues? 
 FAUSTO CARMONA:  Roberto told me don't worry about that and you've got a lot of talent.  Got to be ready, keep your head up.  Don't put your head down.  Work hard.  Sooner or later you're going to be back here again. 

 Q.  People say striking out ability is important in the playoffs.  As a sinkerball pitcher, how do you feel about that and there aren't many sinkerball pitchers that play an important role in this playoff, just like Brandon Webb and Chien-Ming Wang, so can you talk about that? 
 FAUSTO CARMONA:  I don't worry about strike-outs, if somebody gets on I'm going to pitch and get a ground ball.  With a sinkerball I can continue to keep the ball down, it's going to be quicker to get the outs, getting ground balls and striking out.  Does that answer your question? 

 Q.  So there are many comparable pitchers in the playoffs, so how do you feel about that? 
 FAUSTO CARMONA:  It feels great.  We've got a great defense.  Guys are going to be making plays behind me.  Doing it the whole year.  I'm going to continue to do the same thing, get the ball down and make them hit the ball on the ground. 

 Q.  Were there any pitchers you looked up to when you were growing up? 
 FAUSTO CARMONA:  Pedro Martinez. 

 Q.  Have you ever met him?  If you have, what do you like about him? 
 FAUSTO CARMONA:  I haven't met him.  I would like to -- I would love to meet him.  But I haven't had a chance to talk to him.  But he was my idol when I was coming up. 

 Q.  Do you know what the atmosphere is back in your hometown?  Are your family and friends going to watch the game? 
 FAUSTO CARMONA:  Yes, that's going to be -- at least my family is going to be watching.  They've been watching the whole year and hopefully they'll continue to watch now in the playoffs. 

 Q.  Your manager was in here a little bit ago talking about how mentally tough you were dealing with the troubles as a closer.  How hard was that to deal with and how did you deal with that? 
 FAUSTO CARMONA:  I learned a lot from what happened last year.  I went back to winter ball and continued pitching winter ball.  I worked on the things that I felt like I needed to be successful in the Big Leagues this year if I got an opportunity.  Playing winter ball helped me out, gave me confidence.  When I came back to spring training, I was ready to go, felt great and everything had to happen the year before.  It was behind me.  I was looking forward to a new year. 

 Q.  Talk about facing the Yankees lineup and how you approach them. 
 FAUSTO CARMONA:  I know that they've got a great lineup.  When I get on the mound I don't look at names.  I just go after the hitters.  It will be no different than their best hitter to the ninth hitter.  Everybody is going to be the same. 

 Q.  Are you nervous?  You seem to take everything so much in stride.  But this is a pretty big game.  Is there at least a little part of you that's nervous? 
 FAUSTO CARMONA:  I know it's a big game, but that doesn't bother me.  I know it's the same baseball.  I pitched against those guys before.  And that's how I'm going to approach it.  I'm not going to approach it like any different date. 

 Q.  What are the biggest things you've learned from watching C.C. Sabathia both as a teammate in the clubhouse and watching him on the mound? 
 FAUSTO CARMONA:  I learned a lot because I've watched him.  He's very disciplined on the mound.  Very disciplined off the field.  He's a guy, no matter what happens on the field, he's always the same. 
 When things get tough, he's the same guy as when things are going well.  So no matter what the situation is, he's got to be under control. 
 ROB DOELGER:  Thank you. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT