PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 14, 2004
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions. 


Q.  Getting the feeling you can't lose a game?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No, I knew that streak was going to come to an end, unfortunately.  But it was a good little streak, 18 or so. 

Q.  When is the last time that happened?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Not ever, I would guess.

Q.  You've never had a triple bagel?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No.  I don't normally keep my concentration game in and game out that long, unfortunately.

Q.  When she won that first game of the second set, what were you thinking, "Oh, darn"? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No.  I came into this match not expecting to do the same thing just because I knew Stosur had a pretty big serve.  It was pretty inconsistent today, but I knew she had the ability to string together some games there, where I would maybe not get a great hit at the ball.  It was not a worry. 

Q.  You have to be fairly pleased where your tennis is, although maybe you haven't gotten the kind of competition you like.  Two quick wins. 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah.  I mean, I feel like I've been working really hard.  I feel like I've been hitting the ball pretty well.  You know, you just have to play who you're drawn against.  I can't help it if they're close matches or quick matches.  But, you know, I have a good opportunity to do well here if I can play well and keep my confidence up.  You know, that's kind of just what I'm looking forward to now each match, get through, get to the next one.

Q.  Are you a little surprised to hear about Kim and the injury?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I was.  I had no idea until I came over here this morning and I looked at the schedule.  I thought, "Well, that's a little weird."  Looked on a draw sheet and saw that.  When I saw her here, she had a soft cast on her left wrist.  I talked to her briefly.  Yeah, I mean, complete surprise.  Obviously, the tournament and the fans have to be extremely disappointed.

Q.  Is the tour going to survive this kind of injury rash?  The depth is much more than what it was 10 years ago, but there's a lot of name players out of the game right now. 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, I mean, you'd like to think that the tour is bigger than any few players.  But it's extremely tough when at some of our biggest tournaments we're without four of the six biggest names, whatever it is.  You know, obviously the biggest impact is felt by Serena and Venus not having played hardly any since July.  Some of the other girls that were really making names for themselves, especially here in the States, aren't playing right now either.  With Kim getting hurt, Mauresmo, you know, just kind of adds to the frustration that I think the fans and sponsors and even players feel. 

Q.  Monica did some press the last couple weeks.  Do you actually see her attempting a comeback?  Do you think it is conceivable she might not play again?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, I think it's conceivable she might not play again.  I don't think that is that far out there.  I could see her playing again a couple tournaments.  I don't really see her coming back full strength, playing a full schedule, you know, the 15 to 20 tournaments a year.  I wouldn't be surprised if we saw her play a couple more tournaments, but I wouldn't be surprised if we didn't see her play a couple more tournaments.  I think it really depends on how she's feeling, how her foot starts feeling when she starts practicing more.

Q.  A couple years ago it seemed like the shift was very much towards power in the women's game, it seemed like the dominating women were going to be power players.  With Justine at the top of the game now, does that say something about there's room still for finesse-type players?  Is that really just as much a matter of circumstance, the fact that the Williams sisters aren't around as much?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, I think it's a couple things.  One, I think she has more power than people kind of give her credit for because she has a one-handed backhand and slices a few, people look at her as a finesse player.  She's a pretty powerful player, as well.  I mean, she's not just, you know, getting balls back in.  I think she hits the ball harder than Martina used to hit it and serves a lot better and a lot more powerful.  I think it's also a reflection of Serena being out of the game.  Serena was pretty dominant, No. 1.  By virtue of her not playing and also Venus, it's allowed her to be 1.  Who knows what would have happened if they were both playing.  Maybe she'd still be No. 1, I have no idea.  But I think it made the path for her a little bit easier with them not playing the last eight months or so. 

Q.  Would you be shocked if they don't play again?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I would.  Someone asked me that the other day.  I have never once in my mind thought Serena was never going to come back.  So I would be very shocked if she, you know, doesn't play at all again. 

Q.  Most of the women are getting bigger, faster, stronger.  Does strategy still have a real place in the game or are you just looking for open spots most of the time?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I think it depends on which player you're actually dealing with.  Believe it or not, I still focus a lot of my energy on my opponent's weaknesses.  A lot of times that's Plan B - fall back if you're missing shots, go to the weakness.  I don't know about the other players, but I think it's still a pretty integral part of the game.  I mean, I think, in men's tennis, a different example, but I think Brad Gilbert really got Andy to really focus more on strategy, percentages and stuff.  I still think it is a big part of the game. 

Q.  You mentioned how it's disappointing for the fans and the WTA that some of the big names are not able to play.  How do you feel about it?  It presents a better chance for you to win, but at the same time I imagine you want to beat the best players in doing so. 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, I mean, I've never been happy when I've seen players pull out.  People say, "Oh, it makes the draw easier."  But, you know, a lot of times you're facing those players at the latter rounds anyway.  I'm not thinking right now who I'm going to play in the semis or finals.  I would say that it's more disappointing and discouraging for all the players than,  you know, happy emotions. 

Q.  Are you getting any pressure to play Miami? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I'm holding strong still (laughter).  I think that might change in the next few days if some more players pull out.  We'll see. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT