U.S. OPEN
August 27, 2008
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  L. DAVENPORT/A. Kleybanova  
7-5, 6-3  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. You had a couple of breaks in both sets. Was it you or was it she?  
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: You know, I felt it was a little bit tough for me to get much rhythm out there. You know, I pride myself in trying to give my opponent no rhythm, and I felt I was getting the same tonight. I'd get a couple of big serves, couple winners, missed balls. So it was tough to get on a good roll.  
 So basically, I'm happy that even if I was up and it got back tied, I'm happy I was able to pull it out in both sets and just get through this match, because I didn't feel like it was very pretty tennis. So some of those days you have to just make it through.  
  
  Q. At one time in your life third round was sort of a formality. First time of a Slam this year, is it pretty great?  
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I mean, I still look at it as this is where I should be if I'm healthy and can play halfway decent, I feel like I can still be successful. I'm obviously probably more excited than maybe I used to be by getting to the third round, but I feel when I'm in a tournament and I'm competing and I'm healthy, that I should be winning some of these matches.   
 So I'm happy to be in the third round, but I'm still looking for more.  
  
  Q. You made reference outside to you need to work on your game. How valuable is that for you relative to your season this year as opposed to someone who hasn't been playing a regular schedule?  
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, first, I mean, I have to be realistic in my mind and just be ecstatic to be playing here. It was only when I got back from China maybe last Saturday that I was able to start practicing for singles. So to expect I would be out here and be perfect is probably shooting for the stars a little bit too much.   
 So I have to kind of keep reminding myself of that. I don't feel like I'm that far off. I just feel I'm timing the ball just a little bit late or a little bit just not as perfect as I'd like it to be. If I can get that going, hit more penetrating shots, I feel I can turn my game around.  
  
  Q. Did you go home to California before...   
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No, I came straight to the East Coast. I felt if I stopped no California, I might not get back on another plane. So if I wanted to play here, I'd take the one long flight.  
  
  Q. What about Bartoli?  
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, obviously she's had a great summer. I've played her a bunch before. I played her this year in Indian Wells. It's a game where I feel like if I can play well, it's winnable. If I don't, obviously I'll probably be going home. She takes the ball really early, hits hard and flat. What I like about it is, I feel like if I'm inside the baseline and controlling the points she doesn't run down a ton of balls. So if I try to take advantage of that, obviously she hits a really penetrating ball. So it's really hard to do that all the time.  
  
  Q. What's the specific memory you think about when you think back to '98, being ten years now?  
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Oh, gosh. Luckily or whatever, I don't think of it that often, but I remember -- you know, winning is a little bit of a blur. I kind of remember the leadup to it more so. You know, it was obviously a thrill, and I think that so much happened so fast after winning that you kind of forget it.  
 But I remember, you know, beating Venus the day before, you know, we didn't have a day off until the finals, and in the night, trying to recover from that match, to getting to my first Grand Slam final, and trying to calm my nerves; the night before I didn't sleep so well. I remember just feeling calm and serene the whole two weeks, like I thought I could do it, and that was probably the first time in a Grand Slam I could do that.  
  
  Q. You have to remember that dropshot?  
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: You know, someone played the point a few years ago. I had no idea, I hit 15 balls in before the dropshot came, which is a record for me, anyway, let alone a match point.  
  
  Q. Obviously this is a new balance for you, and having a son, too. How long do you think you will continue it or...   
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I don't know. So much of me coming back has been based on, let's play through this summer and the US Open, and, you know, those are the goals. To be honest, I think we're a little scared to talk about what happens after here, just because this has been such a focal point of my whole comeback. So we haven't really decided. It's kind of like an unspoken thing hanging behind my husband and I.  
 So right now I'm just focusing, I'm trying to play here and kind of will work itself out in the future. Obviously getting a little more difficult as my son gets older, and more mobile and, you know, it's tougher to make the kids travel. You know, if I do continue playing, it will be on a part-time basis.   
  
  Q. At Wimbledon your mom spoke about -- she was there, she spoke about looking around more and noticing things more because she hadn't expected to have that time and here it was, it might not come again. Do you do that now more than...   
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: You know, I do try to make a concerted effort to enjoy it more. I was really trying to do it at the Olympics and trying to do things that I maybe normally wouldn't do, because knowing I won't be at another Olympics; I know that. At Wimbledon, I didn't really get a chance. It was pretty disappointing with my knee.   
 And here, I'm just trying to focus on playing well. So maybe when it's all said and done at the end of tournaments, I might look around or see some more, try to say "thank you" to a few more people. For now I feel like I need to concentrate on my tennis and the singles at hand.  
  
  Q. Is Johnny still here?  
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, yeah. Better be.   
  
  Q. You said in your Tennis Magazine article, I think it was maybe a year ago, you were saying that people remember other players maybe before they'd remember you. You obviously have, though, a lot of fans. Who do you think your fans are? Why would they gravitate towards...   
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Oh, God. That's a tough question. I don't know. I mean, I've never played tennis to be famous or popular or well-liked. It just was kind of thrust upon me.   
 You know, I think I stand for the girls that, you know, in certain terms are ordinary. You know, I don't like flash. I don't try to get a lot of attention. And I think that there is, you know, a niche for people out there like that.   
 I try to bring as little drama as possible, unlike some other players we have. And I think that people have watched me growing up. I think they've seen me mature, and I think they're seen that you can be successful and not be psychotic, be realistic, have good people around you, and just -- I try to enjoy it now more than I used to. And I think people have seen me change over the years and have admired that.  
  
  Q. Along the same lines, do you feel like you sort of represent mothers now?  
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I do. I feel like I have a little bit more of a fan base in that group now. I've gotten so much support and so much support, encouragement from moms and people that haven't had kids yet, but still are inspired to have kids and do what they love. I'm certainly not the trailblazer down that road, but I feel especially in tennis it hadn't been done lately. I mean, we have the one player, Sybil Bammer, but I was saying you can have a kid and still come back and be successful.  
  
  Q. Even while you're focused out there, at any moment are you amazed to still be out there?  
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah. Totally. You know, I said that to myself before tonight, you know, because you always get nervous before going out there and especially in a big stage. I was just trying to tell myself to enjoy it, because who would have thought that I would be back out there, and, you know, get another opportunity to play on that court in front of the fans and, you know, still be around here at the US Open.   
 It kind of freaks me out when they say my 17th time or 17 years or whatever. That's a little overwhelming.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT