adidas International
January 16, 2004
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Lindsay has, unfortunately, had to withdraw from tonight's match due to a right shoulder strain which she sustained in yesterday's singles.  I'll hand it over to Lindsay to tell you about it.  
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, you know, I said yesterday my arm was a bit sore before I went out yesterday.  Unfortunately, injured it a little bit more in my singles yesterday.  And after waking up this morning, it's just pretty painful and extremely tight.  You know, just really sad that I can't play.  Obviously, was a big match and I was looking forward to it as I haven't played her much in the last year.  But at this point of where I am in my career and all the injuries I've had and where I, you know, want to go with my health, I just feel like it's best right now to get my arm better.   The doctor and the trainers feel like three to four days' rest will mean a huge difference.  There's a chance it can heal completely.  They think it's just the muscles.  I just don't want to do anything tonight that would keep me out for months at a time. 
 
Q.  Will you be okay for the Australian Open?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  That's anticipated.  I mean, that's, you know, in the forefront of my mind. 
 
Q.  Will you be quick to get in a request for at least a Tuesday start? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  You know, I don't think that that pulls too much weight.  I mean, yeah, that would be great and I'll certainly ask.  But, you know, Monday afternoon or Tuesday, I mean, hopefully, you know, it will be okay.  I'll ask, but I'm sure there's a lot of players on different sides of the draw wanting a lot of different things. 
 
Q.  From past experience, this sort of injury, how long does it normally take to heal?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Past experience, if you're allowed the time to rest, it can be like three to five days.  The muscle can, you know, just heal and not be so overworked the next few days.  Unfortunately, like I've said, all the matches I played at Perth and here, it's just, you know, taken its toll on a body that hasn't played a lot of matches since last summer.  You know, while unfortunate, I've dealt with much worse injuries and much worse things.  So I'm pretty optimistic that it will heal.  
 
Q.  When will you start practicing again?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Depending on when I play.  If I play Monday, I'll probably hit a little bit Sunday night.  I probably won't serve until right before my match time.  If I play Tuesday, won't hit till Monday.  Just play it by ear with the scheduling, but really will limit my serving until absolutely necessary. 
 
Q.  After missing so much time last year, what's been your attitude coming into this year?  Is it one of real freshness and excitement, or..?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It is.  I felt like that every time I've taken the court and was really excited to play in Perth.  It was a great experience.  I've entered a lot of tennis because I was excited to.  Unfortunately, you know, my arm, while be it relatively minor, just hasn't held up to all the serving.  You can't simulate all the serves you do in singles and doubles over the last two weeks as you do in practice.  That's all it is.  I think it will heal quickly.  
 
Q.  How frustrating is it? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It is.  I mean, you know, I've waited a lot of months to be able to train and play like this again.  It's been a while.  But, you know, being through this before, I realize that I'm going to have second chances to get better.  And, you know, I'm doing this so this isn't a chronic thing and so I have the opportunity to keep playing well over the next few weeks.  
 
Q.  Why did you play doubles, knowing you had a problem?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, we only played like a set and a little bit.  I didn't serve over - I'm going to say - 75 miles an hour.  I was just kind of really lightly putting it in.  I didn't think it was that bad.  I was severely taped.  I don't think I made it worse in the doubles.  I think the damage was done in the singles yesterday.  
 
Q.  You said it wasn't a chronic injury.  Do these kind of injuries make you think the end of your career might be coming closer than you wanted?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Muscle injuries, not so much.  A muscle injury happens to anybody.  My problems with my knee and everything else was much more serious and much more career-threatening.  A strained muscle is not really reason to concern me at this point.  
 
Q.  This might be your last Australian Open?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I hope not. 
 
Q.  If this had been in the Australian Open, might you have tried to play, or would it have been too much?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  You know, I don't know.  Obviously, when you're making a decision like this, you have to think about the future.  The future, unfortunately, is four days from now.  You know, the goals of every tennis player are those eight weeks a year for those four Grand Slams.  So, you know, that, obviously, did weigh in my decision.  If it was reversed, I don't know what the decision would be.  But, you know, I am where I am right now on Friday with the Australian Open starting Monday.  
 
Q.  Did you think that this was a really good chance for you, given the way that some of the players have turned up?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Sure.  It's always a great chance when you're in the semis and haven't lost yet this year and playing great.  But, you know... 
 
Q.  I meant for the Australian Open. 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Australian Open, I'm sorry.  I thought you meant here.  Yeah, hopefully, it still is.  It's a long way to go still.  I've got some recovering to go.  But if my form is any indication, and if I can keep that where it is, I still feel really confident about my chances.  If my arm heals and I'm able to serve the way I have the last few weeks, I still feel very good about myself.  
 
Q.  You're going to ice and tape and rest the shoulder?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah. 
 
Q.  What else will you do?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  You know, probably be running, and probably tomorrow do some kind of sprints on the court somewhere.  I mean, the rest of my body is great, which is great news for me (smiling).   You know, work on anaerobically being able to last and also trying to do some sprints to try and stay quicker on my toes.  Just give my arm a rest.  
 
Q.  You're the only past winner of the Open who is actually playing next week.  How much of an advantage is that?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I don't know.  I was surprised ; someone told me that the other day.  I guess Martina quitting and Jennifer and Mary not coming, I guess there haven't been a whole lot of other  - and Serena  - Grand Slam winners.   I don't know how much of an advantage; it was four years ago.  People have won Grand Slams a lot more recent times  - maybe not here in Melbourne.  But I've typically played well here.  I feel really good about myself right now.  It's an unfortunate setback today, but one that I think is overcomable, if that's a word (smiling).  You know, I still feel great about my chances.  This is not going to damper my spirits much, and hopefully Sunday night I'll be ready to go.  
 
Q.  If this was like the Australian Open semifinal, would you have been able to play?  Is it proportional, or you just can't play at all? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I really, you know, kind of answered that a little bit.  You know, I don't know.  I've made the decision based on how my body is feeling today and what's coming up.  You know, if it happens next week, I don't know what I'll do, you know.  I'll have to take that decision at that time.  But right now, you know, it's obviously on my mind what happens Monday (smiling). 
 
Q.  Presumably, you wouldn't mind if today's rain reaches Melbourne?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It wouldn't affect me, no.  I don't think I'll be doing much tomorrow.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT