adidas International
January 15, 2004
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Lindsay, can you tell us about the match today.  
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, I won (smiling).  No, it was a good match.  I'm happy that conditions were a little bit hotter today.  Got, hopefully, used to the sun a little bit.  You know, I still feel like I've been hitting the ball well.  She's a tough player to play against because she can just hit some amazing shots, then you get a couple free points.  Never really sure what to expect.  I was up 6-3, 4-1 when I hit a serve, and feels like I strained my pec.  You know, with the just a lot of tennis yesterday with singles and doubles, my arm was pretty tight and kind of sore this morning in warm-up.  Got treatment before the match and was doing pretty good until I think I tried to hit a serve just a little too hard.  And, you know, I'm hoping it's just like a mild strain.  I don't know at this point.  Just put ice on it, and I'll know more later.  
 
Q.  I was going to say...eight sets of tennis.  Did you feel any of that twinge in your shoulder in Perth?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  You know, I think it's just been the accumulation of not playing at all since really September, and all of a sudden I'm like singles and doubles every day for like so many weeks.  And, you know, I don't think it's anything major; I fully expect to go out tomorrow and be able to play a good match.  But I think it's just my body's not used to, you know, just playing this much tennis.  In some respects it's good for me.  I mean, the training I needed to do now is on court and match preparation.  Now I think I just need to taper back a little bit before Melbourne.  
 
Q.  Are you playing doubles?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, that's yet to be decided.  
 
Q.  Just see what happens?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah.  I have about an hour.  And, you know, really came back, showered, just put some ice on it, and I'm gonna discuss it, you know.  I don't know really what the right answer is.  Probably it's gonna be tough.  
 
Q.  Good win in the doubles yesterday.
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, it was great.  It was really exciting.  Part of the reason I was playing is for my partner.  She's such a great friend of mine, and she's been through so much that I feel bad to let her down.  But we had a great week so far, no matter, I think, what happens today.  
 
Q.  Justine next.  Your thoughts on that?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, I'm excited.  I have not played her since last year here in Melbourne.  It seems like I've played every player a million times, but I never got a chance to play her again.  So I'm excited about that.  It will be a little bit of a role reversal now that she's won and I'm - I don't know what.  She's kind of the expected one to win.  But I think she's a great player.  I mean, admire her a lot for what she was able to do last year, especially at the US Open.  And just another great opportunity to play a top player.  
 
Q.  What do you think, what are your memories of that match in Melbourne last year?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I mean, fairly good.  I mean, I remember I was losing a set and 4-love, then fought all the way to then get up 4-1, to then ...  I think the final score was like 8-6 or 9-7.  But just such a seesaw match.  I thought I could not play any worse, then I was playing good, then could not play any worse (laughing).  I mean, it was just such an up and down battle.  You know, I think a little bit of drama was added when she cramped, but, you know, she handled it phenomenally.  She kept playing.  I think the same thing happened to her in New York.  She's pretty tough.  
 
Q.  Is there any prospect that you won't play tomorrow?  If it's more than a twinge, will you not risk playing a semifinal?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No, I don't think that would be the case.  I mean, I'm pretty confident I'll be able to go out there.  You know, I can't promise that I'll be 100 percent; maybe I will.  But, I mean, injuries are tough.  Probably don't know much until the next day.  But I'm pretty hopeful.  It was pretty sore this morning before I started.  But I hope so.  I mean, I would  -- it doesn't go over well with me when I can't play.  I'm not a big fan of that.  
 
Q.  Is it the sort of injury which, you know, it's going to be a problem to nurse it through another perhaps, what, eight or nine matches?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I hope not.  I mean, I've had this injury before.  You know, my body typically recovers well from muscle strains.  I just hope that it will.  I mean, I have no idea what the few weeks will bring.  You know, hopefully, I'll have a couple days off here no matter what  - win tomorrow, lose tomorrow, you know...  And just probably won't be practicing as many serves in practice and save it for the matches.  It's hard to look ahead too far right at this moment, yeah.  
 
Q.  What sort of therapy do you have, if anything?  Do you ice it?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Literally, it just happened.  They had me ice it.  I need to go back there and figure out  -- she said there's a way she can tape it.  I've had a strained pec before, and just pretty much ice and rest and stretch and tape and, you know...  Muscle problems are fairly straightforward.  There's not a whole lot of secret science you can do.  But, you know, I'm sure they'll do everything they can.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT