NEWPORT BEACH BREAKERS MEDIA CONFERENCE
July 10, 2008
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. You don't get a chance to play competitively a lot in Orange County, so that makes a night like this a little more special, huh, playing at home?
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It's great. Obviously Orange County has a huge tennis following and a lot of players in the area, so to have professional tennis in my home city is a great thing. It's ridiculously easy when I'm used to traveling from Asia to Europe to Australia to just come ten minutes up the road. 
 So it's exciting for me to get a chance to play in front of my friends and family, and to see the locals come out and support the team is great.

 Q. I met you in the '90s and Robert was coaching you, and now you're playing with his son.
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I am playing with his son. It's so crazy. My husband is so teasing me because I'm so old. I played with Robert if one of -- like the chalk tournament here back in the '93, and here I am in 2008 playing with his son. It's pretty crazy, but it's so great. 
 Kaes a such a wonderful - I don't want to say kid - a wonderful man. I'm excited to have this chance to play with him and the whole team.

 Q. He just won the NCAAs. Is it too early to maybe kind of assess...
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I mean, that's such a great starting point, you know to end college on a winning note and win the biggest tournament in college. It's a long road for some people. Some people don't come out in their teens and flourish right away. 
 I think he's got a great work ethic; he's got a great game. I think it might take him a year or two to find his way in the pro tour, but certainly he's on his way, and Team Tennis is a great opportunity for him to play against some of pros and get this first taste of life on the pro tour. 
 
 Q. How does your schedule come about now as you look forward to the US Open? What's kind of your game plan? 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, we kind of play it month by month. I have a vague schedule in my mind about what I want to do. The summer is obviously great. We have tournaments in California and then the US Open. 
 After that we'll decide what makes a lot of sense for us. It obviously gets more challenging as my son gets older. Hit was much easier when he was a little peanut in my arms. You know, now he's always on the move. You know, his routine has gotten more strict, and it's better for him sometimes to stay at home. 
 We adapt and we'll see how my body holds up and how my game is doing in the fall to see how much I play in the future.

 Q. So if all things feel pretty good at the end of year... 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I would love to play, you know. I love the game. If it makes sense and I'm healthy and still competitive, sure, I'd love to stick around. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I've always loved playing. I mean, the first year I played was in 1993, and I've played many, many, many seasons. Very rarely in tennis do we get an opportunity in the team format. That's always a big drawing card. And I love that we've got men and women playing together. That's great. 
 The different rules to make it more exciting, the music, the fans, everything about it is a lot more fun than a regular tour event.

 Q. (No microphone.)
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: You know, I actually the format of Team Tennis has stayed the same, which is great because it's so different from what we go against. They've tried to change some of rules, like playing let serves and I think now have no-ad. I think when I started it was regular scoring. 
 You know, a lot of little things like that. But the core of it has stayed the same, so I think that's why it's stayed so successful.

 Q. Do you have a theory as to why Team Tennis has stayed around for as long as it has?
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: When Billie Jean puts her name behind anything it's got longevity. The woman is incredible. She's got such passion, and she works tirelessly on it. I think a lot players play in respect to her.

 Q. (No microphone.)
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I love it, yeah. And to travel around together finally -- I mean, so many times you're doing you're own reservations and your own flights. Now you getting to go with the teammates everywhere, you share cars, you go to meals. It's much -- it's very lonely on the tour, and it's much more fun when you've got teammates and a coach around to support you.

 Q. What sort of personal highlights do you carry with you in terms of Team Tennis?
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, a lot. I've been a part of the championship team, which is great. Obviously playing in Newport is a highlight. I love that we have a team here and I love to support it as much as I can. 
 But really the first season was one of my favorites, 1993. I got talked into playing and didn't know what I was getting into. I had wonderful teammates and we had a great, great time. We had a good team. It was eye opening. I was only 17 or something. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I hope so. I have no idea what's expected, so I hope so.

 Q. Anyone that you know going to be out here?
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I have some friends coming. Hopefully they'll show up and be loud. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, he's here. You'll find him. Well, I hope. I hope I see him. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT