NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 21, 2003
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Lindsay, please.  
 
 
Q.  Routine today?  Pretty routine? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  A little bit.  I think more than anything it's going to be tough to just get used to these conditions to play matches in and, you know, the heat and humidity is obviously a big factor.  I think we have a lot more wind here than we've had in California.  So, you know, I was happy to get through it.  I felt like it's totally different conditions than what we've been playing in the last few weeks from the desert.  So, you know, it's just going to take probably a couple more days to get all the players acclimated to it. 
 
Q.  Do you feel like you're back to the level where you want to be at, like you were a few years ago, or is there more work?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I think there's always more work to be done.  I think I'm still making strides towards that.  I still feel like I could be getting better and better.  But, you know, I'm beating some top players.  And losing some matches still, but I feel like I've been able to make some progress for sure this year.  
 
Q.  Is it a confidence thing right now more than anything?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It is, a lot.  You know, just seeing how players' games changed them, not playing them, then starting to play them again.  Also with just my own game, being in situations again, finals and semis and big matches.  But definitely I'm hoping that, you know, my level's picked up in the last few weeks and I can keep it going from here on out. 
 
Q.  A lot of questions to Kim Clijsters was, "How do you beat the Williams girls"?  I'd like to ask you, how do you beat Kim Clijsters?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I think those three have been playing at a level above all the other players.  Kim was so close at the Australian Open to getting through to the finals, and I think she had a good shot of winning.  But I think Kim, you know, is playing with a lot of confidence right now.  She kind of turned the tide last year winning some tournaments in Europe, then winning the season-ending tournament for herself.  She's very fast, playing with more confidence and more sure of herself.  I think that you've got to attack her.  But it's tough.  I mean, a lot of it is going to depend on how she's playing that day. 
 
Q.  Do you have any superstitions or lucky routines, anything that you kind of stay with?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Not really.  I'm not really  -- I think after you've played all these years, you figure that it's just too difficult to go through all those.  So, no, not really.  
 
Q.  Did you start out on tour with any? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No, I think it's just too hard.  We play so many matches, and you lose so many, you win so many, it's not like we only have the Olympics or something that it's very  -- I'm not really that type of person.  
 
Q.  Can you talk a little bit about the difference between playing on green clay and red clay?  I don't know if you're going to Charleston or not?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I don't know yet. 
 
Q.  But I know you've been at Amelia?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No, no, yeah, I've played many years.  I'm not an expert on clay, but from my experience and what I've been told, green clay is faster and a little bit not as heavy as the red clay over in Europe and also helps with the weather in Florida.  But I've always found it's easier for my game on the green clay than it is the heavy red clay of Europe. 
 
Q.  Because of what reason?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, just it's quicker, you can put balls away slightly easier.  You know, it's just  -- it's not as thick, I don't think. 
 
Q.  With your knee injury or surgery that you've had, is clay a surface that you're going to look to play more on, or will it make a difference to you?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, since I've come back from surgery, I haven't played on any surface but a hard court or an indoor court.  So, you know, after all these months, I think my knee is fine.  It's been over a year since the surgery.  But it's probably going to be a little bit awkward for me to play on the clay and even the grass just because I haven't done it.  Clay, I don't think I've played on in about four years so I need some practice out there before I go start playing.  It's going to be an adventure.  I've looked at the clay court season this year as probably really fun.  Like I said, I haven't played on clay in years.  Looking forward almost to see how I can do out there on it.  
 
Q.  Have you ever slid on clay?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I try, I try, I try, but I'm not so good at it.  Even had practices when I'm just trying to do that.  But I haven't gotten the whole balance thing down. 
 
Q.  Do you think that's because of growing up in the States where there aren't a lot of clay courts?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Not necessarily the States, it's growing up in California where I didn't play on a clay court until maybe one tournament when I was 10, one tournament when I was 12, then not for a few years.  In Florida, I think you practice on it a little bit more.  California there's no clay courts.  There wasn't even an option of learning to play on it. 
 
Q.  Is it something you think should change or will change?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  In California?  
 
Q.  Uh-hmm.
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I don't know.  Probably not (smiling).  
 
Q.  You and Lisa Raymond, how much fun is this? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It's been great.  I mean, I didn't really think I'd ever play doubles really again full-time and commit to a partner.  When last fall she and Rennae decided to play anymore, I thought she's probably the only person I'd play with, she's my best friend out here, she has such a great attitude.  We've had a really good time.  It's been fun to practice and work on things with another player.  She's obviously, I think, the best in the world at it, so I'm lucky in that sense.  It's just we get along great. 
 
Q.  Why do you think she's never really made a big breakthrough?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Oh, God, don't make me answer that. 
 
Q.  It seems like she has all the tools. 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  She does.  I think that  -- I have no idea.  I mean, I've never really analyzed it that well.  I mean, she's so quick, got great hands.  She has all the shots.  I think maybe she's got all the shots, she sometimes doesn't know what to hit.  She can almost hit them all.  But, you know, to get more into it, I don't really  -- she's my best friend.  I don't know.  I don't know.  I've never asked her, "Why do you think you haven't..."  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT