NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 16, 2003
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Rough day serving-wise? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, you know, I just have felt like it wasn't as effective as it could have been.  Even if it went in, it wasn't really winning me any free points.  That is something I've struggled with a little bit more this year than in past years.  And it's something that you just have to keep on working to try to get the serve to be not only more consistent but more of a bigger weapon. 

Q.  Didn't it used to be one of your big weapons?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  That's what I'm saying, yes.  This year I've struggled more with it than in the past.  Just more inconsistent and not winning me free points anymore.

Q.  Is that at all from the time off from last year?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  You know, I don't know.  I don't know if technically I'm doing something differently.  I'll probably have to study it a little bit more and really look into it a little bit more because, you know, you love to win those free points, you know, whether it's one a game, sometimes you get two a game.  That really makes your life a whole lot easier, instead of hitting a lot of second serves and giving her kind of the first hit of the rally.

Q.  When you don't trust your serve, is that presumably what leads to the double-faults, pushing too much?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, I mean, I just  -- I've also just  -- I knew she was then going to get like a good hit at it.  I wanted to serve it a little bit better, but kind of was double-faulting, lost my rhythm.  You know, I was then giving her free points instead of making her win the points.  You know, she plays very well and very consistent and moves well.  You know, to beat her, you have to be  -- I have to be a lot more consistent and a lot more kind of just level-headed, you know, pick my shots a little bit better and not just make a lot of free errors.

Q.  How is the quality of this match compared to other ones?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It wasn't great, there's no question about it.  You know, I don't think I've ever warmed up for a final at like 7:20 (laughter), especially from finishing so late the other night.  There's no question, she is the reason why I didn't play great.  I mean, she hits the ball with different spins, some hard, some soft, very consistent, gets a lot of balls back.  But it is disappointing because, win or lose, you'd like to play a little bit of a more high-quality match for the fans or even just for yourself in general.

Q.  What time did you have to get up?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Like 6:30, which for a final is a little ridiculous.  Men or women, whoever was supposed to have the 9:30 a.m. start, it's one of our bigger tournaments of the year.  It's probably just ridiculous, I thought.

Q.  When did you find out about the schedule change?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Last night.  I mean, I kind of figured when they weren't going to finish that they'd move us there.  But, you know, I thought when I heard the men were playing even then, it was not right.

Q.  Charlie said everybody's a slave to TV.  Do you think anything can be done about that?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  You would like to think so.  I mean, I just don't think it was appropriate to schedule either final at that time.  You know, I don't know.  I'm not on that side of the game.  But you'd think they could have worked out a better solution than that. 

Q.  Can you talk a bit about Kim, how she's kind of stepped up in the last six months? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I mean, she definitely has been the most improved player.  I've said that for a number of months now.  Once you break through and start winning titles, it gives you a lot more confidence to keep on doing that.  She moves the ball around the court very well, can hit the ball pretty much every spot.  Like I said, she's very athletic and gets a lot of balls back.  I think now she's just playing a lot smarter and a lot more confident than before where she would maybe, you know, miss some balls or lose her concentration.  Now she really seems to be focused kind of the entire match through now.

Q.  Do you feel like she's dealing better with it psychologically, the position she's in?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I think so.  I mean, it's a change to go from the underdog always to all of a sudden the favorite.  I think she's handled that very well. 

Q.  Trouble with the serve today?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, definitely been struggling with that.  Like I said a little bit earlier, even if they're not going, they're not as effective as they could be or should be.  It's something that I'm just going to have to work on maybe placement a little bit more, maybe spins a little bit more, try to make that back into my bigger weapon. 

Q.  Is there a different mindset or vibe psychology when Serena and Venus are not at a big tournament like this?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  You know, I mean, I don't worry about it because normally I don't play them in the earlier rounds.  When you play them in the latter round, you know you're in for a tough match.  I still thought that this was going to be a tough tournament for me no matter who I played.  You know, it is a little bit different not seeing one of them in a draw.  Normally at least one of them is playing every tournament that I play at normally.  You know, there's still great players you have to go through to win the title.  That's what I believe.

Q.  From your perspective, how do you view this whole tournament?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I mean, still really positive.  I felt like I played a lot better here.  You know, there's no question that this morning I was a little bit tired and a little bit off my game.  But I certainly don't want to make that into too big a deal.  I played really well on Friday night, and even earlier in the week I started doing some stuff a little bit better.  Hopefully I'll be able to build on that.  I think I know what I need to improve upon to be a little bit better. 

Q.  Is it still a work in progress then?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It always is.  I mean, it's a sport that you're always constantly working on some aspect of your game. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT