PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 14, 2003
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Are you happy with the way you're playing?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah.  That was just a really hard-fought, I thought high-quality level tennis match.  It's fun to play those kind of matches.  I don't feel like I've played at that level for a few months now, so that's real exciting.  To come out on top, obviously it's a big win for me.  More than anything, I'm really happy with the way I was able to play and really compete out there. 

Q.  How did you keep it together with her taking an injury time-out?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I was okay with that.  I've played her many times before.  She's never done that to me before.  I didn't really think too much about it.  You know, tonight I was able to stay really calm, despite being up and down, up and down.  I think that was one of the keys.  I knew it was going to be a really tough last game.  That side was really against the wind.  I think we both struggled to serve on that side.  Love-30 point, the 15-30 point, I mean, they're all big, but to come back after Love-30 was especially nice.

Q.  Was that the most confidence you've had closing out against a player like that in a while?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  That seemed like it went really easy.  I know it wasn't.  Sometimes they're just struggles, and sometimes it just happens where you're able to close it out like that.  But it was still, you know, such a close match all the way throughout.  You know, I stayed very, very calm tonight.  You know, should bottle that up and keep it for more matches (smiling).  It was a great win for me, there's no doubt.

Q.  You had a number of unforced errors, but 50 winners, which meant you kept going for it, which is not easy to do under those conditions. 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah.  I mean, I had to.  I knew that I was making errors, but I felt just getting balls in and having long rallies was not how I was going to win the match out there.  A couple times I picked the wrong time to go for a big shot, but I think I was real aggressive in moving forward, especially on the one side, and had a lot of winners against a very fast opponent.  I just knew I had to keep going for it.  I was probably going to get worn down in a long match if I didn't keep the points short.

Q.  Is this a big boost of confidence for you?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It is.  I mean, like I said, I actually would have been okay losing, because that's the best I've played in a number of months.  And I was getting very frustrated at my inability to play at a level that I thought I could play at.  It is a great win.  I thought I had a tough draw when this tournament started.  Obviously, some circumstances started where I was able to get through a little easier.  But, you know, that's a very big win, any time you beat someone in the Top 10 or 7.  To get to the finals after big tournament here is great.

Q.  Is this a perfect win to set you up into the final?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, going to be a little tired and stiff tomorrow.  Luckily it's on Sunday.  But it's just a big win in general.  You know, I've got a lot of time off before the finals, and hopefully I'll have the confidence carried over to that match. 

Q.  Kim has turned the table on you lately.  She's obviously gotten better over the last year.  What are you going to have to do this time?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I think she probably has turned the table on a lot of players.  Her level the last few months has dramatically improved.  Her ability to play the bigger matches has improved quite a bit.  We've had some close matches.  For me, I mean, she gets more balls back than most girls get back.  It's sometimes just those extra few balls that you have to keep going for.  Hopefully can I keep my patience up there and pick the right shot to go for.  I think her backhand is one of the best out there.  I mean, I think I'm going to have to probably try and attack her forehand a little bit, take my chances with some second serves.  But, you know, I'm just going to have to be ready to come in and try and take some balls out of the air and not let her keep getting balls back. 

Q.  Continue to bang, bang, bang away?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I got to, I think.  I don't think I can last with these girls out there that don't miss (laughter). 

Q.  I asked Jennifer about moving to the left.  You seem to open up the court and go down the line off your forehand side.  You won a lot of points off that.  Is that because you own that shot or is it because you think she's a little slower moving to the left?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No.  You know, I think I like my forehand cross-court a lot.  I felt like all of a sudden I would see the whole court open up the line.  For me it wasn't more of a theory at all, it was just more going for the shot and going for the opening that I saw.  And I was able to really get her running wide to the side and open up the court.  It just so happened that the match progressed that way.  I think she has a great, great forehand.  I was going to try and pick on the backhand more, but she was very solid with that tonight.  I felt like to get it over the backhand, I had to then make her run to the forehand and get it over there, if that makes sense.  That was complicated, sorry (laughter). 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT