PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 10, 2003
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions for Lindsay. 


Q.  Can you just talk a bit about the match? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  What part (smiling)?  Well, it was  -- you know, I'm obviously very happy with a win like that, thought that that was a good opportunity for me to have to step it up and play at a higher level, a good challenge.  I think she can be a very dangerous player.  We've had some tough matches in the past.  So I'm happy I was able to play better tennis tonight and play well.  Got off to a little bit of a slow start, down 4-2, and was able to come back right away and stick on her and win the first set and get up a pretty early break in the second.  You know, for me, I've had sometimes problems with my lapses in concentration, kind of closing things out when I'm up.  You know, today was really great.  I was able then to just keep going in a semi-routine manner.

Q.  And when you were 4-2 down, was there a particular turning point?  What made the difference there?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, I think it was vital that I broke back again right away the next game, didn't give her a chance to build on her lead at all.  It was a little disappointing.  I felt like I kind of gave the game away with a couple quick errors, didn't really make her earn it or fight for the first break.  Like I say, I was able to turn it around right away and get back even.  You know, just kept going with that momentum that I started to build then.

Q.  You talked a bit about your confidence, still sort of getting back to the confidence of a couple years ago.  Is part of that just putting your authority on a match early on? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I think that's a big part of it.  A lot of times for me I need a challenge or feel like it's a big match, feel like I need to play well to pull through.  Tonight was a good opportunity, like I said, for that.  You know, this match I felt like I did things well.  I served a lot better tonight, was able to feel like I was holding my serve relatively easily, just the one break.  That kind of allows me then to go for my shots a little bit more, feel a little bit more open, hitting my groundstrokes with not so much pressure.  She has a good serve and was able to get a few breaks on her serve.  I think she served better sometimes against me in the past, but I was then still able to take control of receiving, as well.

Q.  You only faced one breakpoint.  That must please you. 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  That does.  That's exactly what I mean about serving well and not letting people get opportunities to constantly guess on my serve or get it back and have a lot of opportunities to break me.  That is a big key for my game, I believe. 

Q.  I may be wrong, but just watching from up here, that match had about all the subtlety and nuances of two trucks colliding.  It was sort of like, "I'll try to knock you over, you try to knock me."  Was that basically it?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  We play similar styles of games.  We're just about the same height.  We both have good serves.  We both hit hard from the baseline.  It was definitely a matter of who was going to be more consistent and be a little bit more overpowering at the same time.  I felt like I came on top tonight of those two categories.  You know, I felt like I got a few more free points and still was able to be aggressive enough to hit my winners and hit my forcing shots.

Q.  Do you enjoy a match like that?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah.  I mean, you always  -- when you play someone who plays the same style, you always want to win.  You always want to be the best at what you do.  But yeah, I mean, I like playing players that play my similar style.  I feel like I do it well.  If I play well, I feel like I'll come out on top.

Q.  How is Rick navigating the early days of your coaching relationship?  Is he saying a lot, letting it evolve or what?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I think so.  You never want to come into a situation and say too much.  I don't agree with that philosophy at all.  Really in my game, you know, it's mostly about confidence and just kind of getting the feel back of winning matches and playing the big points well.  We've been working on a few things, trying to be a little bit more aggressive with returns, trying to step into the court a little bit more, but nothing at all that's ever differed in the philosophy I've received in coaching.

Q.  How about after a match, does he say a lot?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Not too much this week.  I mean, it was just kind of, "You have to look towards the next one," more like, "Look positive."  Definitely he'll point out the things he feels I didn't do correctly or things he feels I need to do better in the next match.  Just trying to play it every match, unless there was such glaring weakness.

Q.  Speaking of the next one.  Your thoughts?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, I'm excited.  We've played a lot of times in our career.  She's another tough opponent for me, and one obviously I can't let up on my game at all.  It seems like she's been playing well here.  It's always a challenge to play her.  She plays  -- her shots are a lot different than you see from most girls  - a lot of topspin, great slice.  She comes in a little bit more than most girls, good serve.  I've got to keep the balls hard and kind of catch her on her back feet, or she can be really lethal, especially with her backhand.

Q.  Are you interested in playing Fed Cup any more?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  You know, I haven't had a conversation with Billie about it.  It seems to me she's got already a winning team, so I'll see what her necessity really is.  You know, I'm trying this year to really concentrate on the tournaments.  I'd love to play Fed Cup when needed.  You know, if it's a matter of another week on the road, to sit there and watch us hopefully win easily anyways...  If Billie feels like I need to be there, I'll talk to her about it.  But I'm sure she feels at this stage, she couldn't be happier.  I don't think she cares if I'm there or not (laughter). 

Q.  You have a pretty impressive record in Fed Cup.  Is that part of you that wants to play, just to keep that going?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I love playing Fed Cup, there's no question.  I think I've only lost twice in my career, I'm not sure of that.  I've always seemed to play well and have always enjoyed it.  There's no question.  In this instance, you know, with Venus and Serena playing, they're obviously going to lead the team.  There's no question that they deserve to obviously play the singles.  You know, for an early-round tie, I believe this might be a great opportunity to let some of the other younger girls that have never played Fed Cup an opportunity to learn about what the week's like, kind of get their first experience.  You know, like I said, if Billie think it's important we keep the same team all year, "We really want you there," I will go.  If she feels like, "Okay, you can sit this one out.  You've played a lot," I'll be a little grateful.

Q.  To be part of a team, such a successful team, will that also help with the confidence?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Oh, there's no doubt it can.  I think after a long stretch in the States  - consisting of Indian Wells, Miami  - I'm hopeful and looking forward to playing Charleston and Amelia Island tournaments I've not played in the last few years because of injury.  Then it's almost like the last week of a very long schedule.  Being part of a team has helped me a lot in the past.  I think sometimes now at my age, rest weeks are an imperative part of the planning process.

Q.  You mentioned the Williams sisters.  How similar is Bovina's game to their game?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Style-wise it's similar.  I think pace on shots, the Williams hit the ball harder from the back court.  I think their serve is a little more consistent, a little bit more powerful.  She's definitely developing into a hard-hitter and trying to become obviously like a Williams.  But I think she still has a little ways to go to be at their level.

Q.  On an evening like this, would you be able to beat the Williams sisters?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Oh, I don't know.  It's impossible.  You get a different opponent on the other side of the net, they do different things.  You know, from my side, I'm very happy with my win tonight and how I played, the level I was able to play at.  You know, for me it's a very positive step  - hopefully one I can keep expanding on.

Q.  Is it a little bit of a relief to think about the W word too much?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I mean, there is.  But I've still looked at my draw compared to some other draws that are there this week and think, "Okay, mine's still awfully tough."  You know, there's obviously some other people in the quarterfinals that I would maybe rather be facing than Mauresmo, who obviously is at the top of her game.  So for me, it hasn't really even come into picture yet.  I've got a very tough match in the next round, one that I look forward to.  We've had some really tough matches.  I think the last time we played was last summer in New Haven.  It hasn't even kind of reached that point yet. 

Q.  The WTA is looking for a new CEO.  What do you think are some of the issues that should be prioritized? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, there's definitely a lot.  I mean, right now we're focusing on finding someone with knowledge of tennis, kind of from the tennis world, tennis background I think this time, and someone who has the leadership and capabilities of keeping women's tennis in the forefront of all women's sports  - trying to use the popularity of the players right now to kind of get  -- to be more recognized and become even a bigger global sport.  Who knows what that actually means in an actual person.  I know this time I think they're looking inside the tennis world for our next CEO, that's what I've been told, instead of the last few we've gone outside of the tennis world.  You just keep your fingers crossed that the right person is going to come through one day.

Q.  When you look at the CEOs that have been there, is there one that stood out that makes you think, "We're going in the right direction"? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I can't think that (laughter).  They have their good ideas, but I don't think one has stayed on the job for more than a handful of years.  Our first CEO when I started was a man named Jerry Smith.  I wasn't around when he first started.  I was around when he left.  He had some great ideas.  But ultimately he got us in a deal which made us partners with the ITF.  It just didn't allow us to make our own decisions.  We had to look to other entities to make decisions for our tour.  That was a disappointment for a couple years.  We've had CEOs that haven't worked out in my whole career.  It would be nice to have one for 10 or 15 years and have the same continuity.

Q.  Do you think that's possible?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  You know, I would rather keep trying to fix the problem.  I like the fact that if it wasn't working, they're willing to go out and then try and find the exact right person for the job.  I think it's imperative if we  -- we need to find the right person.  If we do find the right person, it will make a lot of difference.  I do admire the fact they're still out there looking. 

Q.  I don't know if you've heard about this, but there are a few rumblings of discontent among the men and the ATP; they may be thinking about starting some sort of players' union to represent their interest.  Can you see the same thing happening on the WTA Tour?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No, I don't think so.  I don't think we're at that stage.  The players are interested to see which way the tour will go and how everything with the ATP affects us.  But for right now, I think we're still solidly behind the leadership that we have in place right now.

Q.  Do you receive any form of compensation to be on the board?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  The Player Council?  My eight of 11 years on tour that I've been on it.  No!  No, just the gratification of trying to help the players along (smiling).

Q.  I won't mention what the men are getting then. 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Exactly.  I'm supposed to get my expenses paid.  It seems like I'm always at a tournament, so it doesn't count.  Last year I got my gas money (laughter). 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT