adidas International
January 9, 2003
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question for Lindsay, please.  
 
 
Q.  Must feel good to come through a match like that.
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, you know, to come off with a win, I was down in the third set a lot  - or just one break.  But, yeah, it feels great to be able to come back, feels great to win a close one.  I've had a lot of ones lately and didn't pull them out.  Finally, one went my way.  I'm happy about that. 
 
Q.  Certainly never a dull moment, was there?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No, it was an exciting match I think.  I was going for my shots, and she came up with some great shots and obviously has a great serve.  You know, it was so close throughout.  I was down a break, but the games were  -- some of them were pretty close.  I was able to break back in the last few games, and I think the tiebreak was pretty exciting. 
 
Q.  Does it come down to a question of experience?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I swear, I've come to the conclusion that it gets to be luck (laughing).  I don't know, I mean, I've been involved in a lot of close ones.  Sometimes they go your way; sometimes they don't.  I was down a break in the tiebreak, came up with a good return, played to get to 3-all, played another great point, hit a winner.  Sometimes those balls go in in the tiebreak, sometimes they don't.  Tonight they went in to get me up 4-3, and then I was able to just hold on the last few points. 
 
Q.  The bandage?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, you know, I just woke up this morning and it was a little -- more stiff than anything, just probably from playing at midnight last night.  It's not hurt at all.  I thought I moved well.  The trainer here just, you know, put it on for precautionary sake.  It felt great, didn't feel it at all.  
 
Q.  Fitness-wise now, is everything okay?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, beginning of the year, I feel really fit.  I'll see how I feel tomorrow.  It's always tough.  It's a good test when you have a long, tough match.  But I feel like the  almost two months off I had really calmed my whole body down, and it's great to start off the year where you feel like you're healthy.  I felt like I was able to work very hard in December.  So I did the best that I could to come here in the best shape that I could.  
 
Q.  Do you feel Panova is a good opponent to get in the semis? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, I haven't lost to her.  No, for sure it is.  But, you know, I was saying earlier in an interview it's always a different match when you play someone in the latter rounds.  A lot of times I play her in the first or second round, and I've won.  But she's probably playing with a whole different level of confidence now.  But it's going to be a different match than tonight, I think, tomorrow.  I'll be able to get a look at a lot more returns.  I don't think she has quite the same serve as Daniela.  I'll be in control of the points more.  It will be up to me if I'm making my shots or making too many errors. 
 
Q.  I haven't seen you since Rick came in and Robert went out.  What was the thinking behind that?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, the thinking was that Robert didn't want to travel anymore, and it was something that I was looking for since September.  Was lucky I had his support until I found someone new.  So I definitely took my time.  I was quietly looking for coaches, not ever really publicizing it.  It came up more with a conversation between he and his brother where, obviously, I'm engaged to, said to him, "Robert's not going to travel next year.  She's not sure what she's going to do."  He said, "Well, I'm supposed to play, but that sounds really interesting."  So then we just started talking about it.  It's been great.  As you know, finding a coach can be a very difficult thing, it's a very personal relationship.  I'm very lucky now to find, second, just great guy  - very trustworthy, very solid.  I'm, you know, not the type that wants to switch coaches every month or two, so it's not something I jumped into.  He's so great, it's been going really well. 
 
Q.  In a way, he has a similar background to Robert. 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, they're so similar.  They're both coached by Rick's dad, very similar personalties.  They're good friends, we all live in the same town.  It just couldn't go better.  Robert is still an integral part of my life and my game, and have his support and helps Rick.  It's been really easy and I'm really lucky because for a few months there I didn't know what I was going to do.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT