HOME DEPOT CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 6, 2002
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Lost to Monica Seles, 3-6, 7-6, 6-3

Q.  Lindsay, what were your thoughts coming into this match playing Monica the first round?  

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, my thoughts were, you know, they were optimistic.  I thought I would love to end the year on a good note and play well, especially here in LA.  You know, I was looking forward to doing well during the end of the year and, obviously, I didn't end the year that way.


Q.   Was your shin a factor tonight?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Luckily no, not one bit.


Q.   Can you talk about those 7 match points?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I can't even remember all of them, to tell you the truth.  No, I mean, it just seemed like the whole second set, I let it go all the time from being up, you know, 40-love to Lord knows how many break points to Lord knows how many match points.  It seemed to keep snowballing on me.  Yeah, it's a match you should put away.  There is no question she plays well when she's down and definitely steps it up a level.  The same could be said that I did not do that at all tonight.  When you combine the two, I couldn't quite pull out the one point I needed.


Q.   Lindsay, were you having any doubts on those match points?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, you know, it's always tough receiving on an ad court against a lefty.  I struggled a lot of the night to do that.  The tie breaker, I felt like I could do it.  I never played a good point.  I never got a good first hit on any of the points.  She would take control or the point even wouldn't start, so you know, gosh, I would love to go back and do a handful of them over again.  Maybe just one of them, but, you know, it  just never happens.


Q.   Is that a career first?  

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I would think.  I mean, I have lost some matches that way, so it's disappointing, there is no question.  On the other hand, it's just a little bit of a relief that this, like, year and fall is just kind of over.  It's just been a tough couple of months, and I look forward to a break, and then coming back and trying to play at a higher level and be a little mentally fresher the last few weeks in Australia.


Q.   Looking how your year has gone with knee surgery, your shin, some tournaments here and there, what are your thoughts for next year?  What do you think you need to do to prepare?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Right now I'm looking forward to just kind of taking a break and getting a few weeks off from all of it.  I'll assess my goals again when I'm ready to start hitting again sometime in December, and look probably more closely then at what I think I need to do and what my coach thinks I need to do.  It's hard to say now, but certainly there is technically, I think, some flaws as well as mentally kind of being a little bit more excited or encouraged to be out there playing.


Q.   Lindsay, realistically, is Monica capable of winning this tournament or is it that she may get a big win here or there?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I have no idea.  I know she plays well.  She always sometimes comes up with these big wins here and there.  I really have no idea.  I really don't know how well Venus is playing.  If both Serena and Venus come into this tournament playing well, or even other players -- Monica has the weapons, but I think against some players like a Williams, who can move a little bit better and run around, it would be tough.  Certainly, if they're not playing well, she can take advantage of that. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT