US OPEN
August 30, 2002
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  You had a pretty straightforward victory out there.  How did you feel?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I felt good.  I thought I played a little bit better today than the second-round match.  I felt like I was controlling the points a little bit better than the other night.  Served a lot better.  Think I had a pretty good high percentage of first serves.  That's all I can really ask for.  I mean, so far, I've played well enough, you know, I haven't taken any steps backward yet, which is important.  
 
Q.  You feel like you built up a lot of momentum moving deeper into the tournament? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I hope so.  I mean, that's all you can really ask to do, I mean, is get through the first few rounds, try and play as best you can and get  -- stay fresh, keep playing well, keep hitting the ball well.  And, you know, in the Round of 16, I think the matches will definitely start to get tougher and you just have to keep raising the level each round as it gets tougher and tougher.  
 
Q.  You probably have never seen her play, have you?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No. 
 
Q.  What did you think?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, Robert had watched her the other day and said  -- I think she stands inside the baseline to return serve.  He said, "That's probably a good thing for you, she's not going to have a lot of time to react."  She has two hands off both sides.  I thought she hit the ball well, especially the first few games we had a lot of good rallies.  My philosophy is if you play a bigger server, you want a little bit more time.  But that was fine with me today (laughing).  
 
Q.  What are your feelings now?  It's not really the second week, but going into Sunday, fourth round?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Great.  I mean, happy to be in the Round of 16.  You know, no  -- nothing major is really happened yet in my matches.  They've been fairly routine, you know.  A couple close sets here and there, but for the most part, I've played well and done exactly what I needed to do.  I mean, just been straightforward.  And, you know, how  -- but just like I said, the tougher matches will probably start to happen now.  
 
Q.  Do you sense gradual improvement day-to-day? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  You know, I have.  I thought I played better the first match than the second match, but better today than the last two.  So, it goes up and down.  You know, tough conditions the other night with it raining and being here so late, having to finish yesterday, coming back again today.  But, yeah, so far it's been great.  You know, like I said, it hasn't been too exciting yet, but happy to be getting through in straight sets and doing what I need to do out there. 
 
Q.  Have you charted your progress in your game since Fed Cup till now? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I haven't yet, but I felt like I'm definitely improving playing points and competing now more than I was the first few weeks in California, then Fed Cup.  Fed Cup and Team Tennis was probably the worst points of coming back.  The first few matches that you play, I think you definitely struggle a lot.  Just doubt yourself quite a bit.  And everything like that is out of my mind now.  And I feel like I've been playing a long time again.  So all those doubts and all the kind of mis-steps have exited my thoughts.  
 
Q.  Who's got the best forehand on tour other than you? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  (Smiling) other than me...  Well... 
 
Q.  Serena, Jennifer? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I think  -- I mean, that's tough to say.  They all have good ones.  I mean, Venus has improved her forehand so much.  I mean, that's the reason that I think she made the jump to get to No. 1 or to win Slams.  I think Jennifer has a very good forehand.  Serena.  I mean, they're all pretty equal I would think.  I think, also, with Serena as well, she's cut down her errors on that side as well. 
 
Q.  You'll go to other players' forehands a lot.  Do you shy away from either Jennifer's or Serena's or Kim Clijsters'? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No.  I go to where I feel like I'm going to hit the ball and where I feel most comfortable hitting the ball.  My forehand cross-court is probably one of my most favorite shots, so I'm going to keep going for it.  
 
Q.  What kind of attention and pressure do American tennis players get that is different from some other tennis players from other countries? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I think we have it relatively easy compared to players from smaller countries where tennis is a lot more popular.  You know, I mean, the Williamses are under a different kind of scrutiny than most tennis players were ever under.  But, you know, a lot of times in Europe, tennis  -- or South America, tennis is the top three or four sports in the country.  In the States, I think it's Top 20.  There's a big difference in media coverage and the kind of spotlight that we're under.  I've always said I had a great life where I'm recognized for what I do, highly successful, but nothing to the point of, you know, people aren't, you know, fawning all over me.  I'm not beat up too badly in the press (laughing). 
 
Q.  Can you actually go places where you're not recognized still? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, you're recognized but it's certainly not the same as a movie star or, you know, a baseball player, football player.  But, I mean, people recognize me but they don't make as big a deal about it as I'm sure Gustavo Kuerten walking around in Brazil.  
 
Q.  People usually talk about you as being nice.  Does it feel good to you to be a positive role model?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, I hope so.  People, obviously, vary on that opinion, I'm sure.  But for the most part, I try and do my best playing tennis and try and keep a good perspective on everything else.  Try and treat people with respect as well.  But certainly it's nice to hear (smiling).  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT