FED CUP - ISRAEL vs USA
July 21, 2002
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  First question, please. 


Q.  How frustrating was it out there? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, I mean, I'm just  -- I was just frustrated just because I like to play better than that.  Even though I've been off awhile, I think of myself as a little bit better than that.  I'm trying to be patient, but it's just  -- third set, after not playing that well, it obviously showed.  But there's nothing I can do about it.  I know I'm going to have matches like this where I'm not going to be -- not quite as well as I was playing before I was injured, but that's just something you have to go through.  I mean, I tried to hang in there.  I didn't really give up.  So, you know, made it through a three-set match. 

Q.  Then in the third-set tiebreaker...

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, I mean, it just is coming and going.  Just not altogether sure about how I'm playing the points and how I want to play the point, but it will get there.  I started off the third set great and then lost all these points in a row.  So I'm kind of just going in streaks.  I really have to just get more consistent and know where I want to hit the ball and have a clear mindset when I go out there. 

Q.  Two consecutive matches.  How is your knee holding up?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  My knee feels great.  The rest of the body's a little sore, but my knee feels great (laughing).  I didn't feel it at all and it's not sore, so that's really great news.  I'm sure I'll be very sore tomorrow, but I'm going to  -- you know, I'm happy.  I wasn't tired at all, which was a huge benefit.  I feel fine now , a little dehydrated, but I'll drink a lot and hopefully I'll be fine. 

Q.  (Question regarding Billie Jean's comments about top players not playing as well as when they're under pressure.)

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, it is  -- you know, we were really focused on the first day, there's no question.  We thought if we got up 2-0 that we'd have a great chance.  That was our kind of goal all week.  It's true.  When it is 3-0, a little  -- you do let a little kind of sigh out of yourself.  You're definitely not as  -- I wasn't as revved up and I definitely started off slow.  But once the first set was over, I felt like it was a normal match .  I didn't think of it any differently and was able to play a little bit better in the second set.  It is; it is tough.  I mean, some people play way better when it doesn't count, and some people don't play as well.  I struggled with my concentration a little bit, but I certainly didn't want to lose out there. 

Q.  Do you look ahead now as far as being back in the World Group next year?  Is the excitement back?  Is a positive feeling back?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I think so.  I mean, it's hard now waiting until April to play.  We don't want to play that many times a year, but it's frustrating not having a chance to win it this year.  We're not really used to that position.  But we definitely thought we belonged in the World Group.  I mean, the United States is probably the strongest country in terms of women's tennis right now, and felt like we deserved to be up in that top group.  We'll wait again until our next tie and go forward again for Billie. 

Q.  What did this weekend preview do for you going in to the rest of the season?  How do you feel?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I mean, I feel  -- the most important thing is physically I feel good.  That's all I could ask for, not knowing what to expect from my body.  I'm really happy about that.  I've had a lot of talks with Billie about coming back after surgeries and what to expect.  There's no doubt it's very difficult.  I really think I just need to keep playing matches until I kind of get the rhythm and the feel back and get my game back.  So, I mean, I came back with two wins.  We accomplished our goal of getting back to the World Group.  I'm ready to start playing tournaments now. 

Q.  When do you play next?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  We're all going to Stanford tonight, all four of us are playing.  I have a bye there, so I don't know if I'll play Wednesday or whatever.  But I'm looking forward to getting back into some cooler weather and getting back to a tournament now. 

Q.  Your fitness looks really good. 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, I mean, I'm so happy that physically I'm able to stand up and last a long three-set match in this heat.  I didn't feel it at all.  I mean, between sets I didn't really want to go inside; I was fine.  So, yeah, I did everything I could physically to work really hard so when I came back that wouldn't be an issue.  Hopefully, it won't become an issue.  But now it's just working the game, you know.  Spending more time in the gym isn't really going to help my tennis anymore.  I need to spend some more time on the court and play points, play matches, get to tournaments and start competing. 

Q.  Does this US team need the Williams sisters to win? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I think we're  -- you know, obviously you'd love to have the strongest team possible, and that definitely includes the Williamses, they're No. 1 and 2 in the world.  But I think this team could win it.  Like I said, it's just disappointing we don't have the opportunity this year.  But we get along great.  Monica and I are normally pretty solid in Fed Cup in our victories.  Lisa's the best doubles player.  Meghann is just hysterical, she's a great girl.  But, you know, every tie, the team changes.  So you just go with each week. 

Q.  You're going to California.  Venus and you are seeded 1 and 2.  Are you pretty optimistic?  Would you be ready to play her in the final? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Oh, God, that's so far away.  I mean, I'm worried about the first round.  I have no idea about that.  I mean, I'd like to think I'm going to get better and better, but I have no idea.  I mean, I hope I get to the finals.  I hope I have to worry about that next Sunday.  But for right now most important is to get through that first round, my first match back on the real tour. 

Q.  What are your plans for tonight? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I think we're all pretty keen to get out of here and get on to California.  So we'll have a good time on the plane.   I don't know.  I mean, we're happy  -- we were happy when Monica came in the locker room.  It was almost like everyone was done thinking about, "Okay, when's our next set?  What time are we leaving?  No one's gonna go out and watch because it was too hot.  We don't want to get tired for this week."  So I think as soon as Monica won, our thoughts have shifted to Stanford. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT