SANEX CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 31, 2001
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions for Lindsay. 


Q.  That was your 13th consecutive win since you came over to Europe.  Hope you're not superstitious. 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, I mean, it's been a great tournament.  I guess that's the routine on Halloween.  I don't know if that works out too well.  I've always felt like I've done well in The Championships in the past if I've gotten through the first round.  I think I've gotten to the finals and then lost in the first round.  Happy to get through today.  She's always a tough player to play against because she gets so many more balls back that I'm not used to coming back.  Whenever you get through a first round, you've got to be very happy.  You know, now I've got to prepare for the next one.

Q.  When you came over at the start of this trip, what were your expectations?  Did you think you could get yourself back into position where the No.  1 spot was still open to you this year?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No.  I mean, the ranking had nothing to do with it.  I've always done well indoors.  I felt like I'm probably the best player indoors.  There's just a few of us that I think really excel indoors.  I've always felt like I've been one of them.  I was training very hard after the US Open.  I was supposed to go play in Moscow.  I was ready to go there.  Just when everything happened, I didn't feel very comfortable doing that, so I delayed it.  I came over.  Once I arrived in Filderstadt, in my mind I just wanted to stay the rest of the month over here and play.  So far it's worked out great.  Could have backfired if I got hurt or tired.  But feeling excited to end the year here. 

Q.  You're not feeling tired?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No.  I mean, indoor tennis is a lot easier I think than outdoor tennis.  A lot of the matches, a lot of points are fairly quick.  Obviously, when you win three tournaments in a row, you've got a lot of confidence.  You know, I feel like I can still end the year on a better note than what I've done the last few weeks.  But, you know, on the other hand every player is tough, every player wants to do well.  I'm just happy with today and looking forward to playing again tomorrow. 

Q.  Obviously, much depends on how far Jennifer goes.  Do you still see the No.  1 as a possible target for you this week?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No.  Never once has it crossed my mind in the last month.  I've always felt like the No.  1 player should have excelled in the biggest tournaments.  The biggest tournaments are the Grand Slams.  I didn't get to one final.  Two semis and a quarter isn't really good enough, I don't think.  You know, Jennifer and Venus had far better results in the Grand Slams, and deserve it.  I've done the best I can on the normal tour, won a lot of tournaments.  Maybe next year if I win the Australian or win Wimbledon or whatever, then obviously I feel like I deserve it.  At this point I'm happy to end the year at 2.  I have no problems at all with that. 

Q.  Having a run like this at the end of the year, will that set you up in good stead for the start of a new year, confidence-wise?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I think so.  We're ending the season three weeks to a month early.  May fade by the time we get to Australia.  Anytime you can end the year on such a positive note, you go into the off-season, you know, happy, just knowing that I've tried very hard this year, done well, come back from a few injuries, still playing well.  I think this is my fifth year or sixth year ending in the top two or three.  That's hard to do.  I'm proud of myself for that.  You know, it will definitely give me incentive in December when I start playing again to work harder, try to go farther in Slams next year. 

Q.  Do you know yet what you're doing before Australia?  Are you playing any tournaments?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I'm just going to go down to Sydney.  You know, I think I have a little over eight weeks.  I won't play tennis for at least a month, slowly start back into it in December.  Just get ready to go again. 

Q.  Your remarks about Venus attracted quite a lot of attention. 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Which were? 

Q.  The remarks that perhaps she was teasing people by not coming and not making her intentions either clearer earlier in advance or living up to what she actually said she was going to do. 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  So what is the question? 

Q.  The question is, are you happy with the way this has been followed up?  Are you happy with the way in which withdrawals through injuries are followed up?  It's taken, what, several days to decide who the second doctor should be, and it may be almost a week before they're able to verify whether the injury is valid or not.  Is that a satisfactory procedure?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  My feelings are just that I think it would have been better if, you know, a month ago or three weeks ago she just pulled out of everything or when she pulled out of Linz said, "There's a good chance I won't be able to play Munich."  Her release that I saw, she said, "I'll for sure be in Munich."  I think it would have been better if she said, "You know what, I don't think I'm going to play."  On the other hand, I think she has every right not to play.  We're an individual sport.  We're not a team sport.  We're self-employed.  I don't feel like you can make the players play.  All this looking into her injury with doctors and lawyers, I just think she has every right not to play, whether she's injured or not.  All I said is I think she should have been more up front about it in the beginning.  Like I said, we're an individual sport.  If she doesn't want to play, you can't make her play.  We're under no contract to the WTA Tour or anybody else that we have to play.  I think she has every right.  If she doesn't want to come over, she doesn't have to.

Q.  Is it difficult or unwise for you to comment on the procedure that follows this?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I think it's stupid.  If she doesn't want to play, she doesn't have to play.  That's my opinion.  I mean, I don't agree with it.  You know, like I said, we're not guaranteed money in the beginning of the year that we have to play all these events.  We have to come out and earn it.  If anyone doesn't want to play, that's their prerogative.

Q.  There shouldn't be a verification panel?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I didn't know there was.  I don't think.  I mean, I think she has every right to do what she wants. 

Q.  This is the first year The Championships are taking place in Munich.  How do you like it so far here?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I've liked it a lot so far.  The court is very nice.  Everyone has treated all the players I think exceptionally well.  Everything's gone very nice so far.  I'm very happy with it all. 

Q.  Will you take a look at the city if you have the time?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah.  I mean, I just found out I play again tomorrow, so probably not tonight.  You know, I'm just kind of taking it day to day.  I think if I was to be out of this event, I'll probably take the first flight home.  Maybe if I win again and have a day off sometime, I'll try and do something. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT