US OPEN
September 4, 2001
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions, please.


Q.  What do you think was the difference tonight?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Just a few points.  I mean, if the match is that close, it's not too many things.  I was always in a hole, coming back.  Even after I won the second set, I got down 3-Love right away.  Just put myself in a hole right away.  When I got the break back, got broken again.  I kept fighting back.  At 4-All, I had the one chance, you know, to break, and didn't.  In a match like that, there's not a whole lot separating the players.  I mean, a couple points, I would have won. 

Q.  You come back, win the second set, big lead, comes back.  Was there a moment you thought you were going to keep pressing her and break?  Were you surprised she actually held it together?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I thought I was.  I mean, just that one game at 4-All, just missed a few returns in the beginning.  That really probably would have broken her spirit probably if I could have broken there.  I mean, she's a great competitor.  Came back after being match point up.  Blew a lead again.  Hung in there.  That's tough to do sometimes.  I mean, it seems like she has a slight pattern of doing that, sometimes letting the person back in the match.  I guess she's getting better at dealing with it.

Q.  Were you surprised at her reserve tonight?  She seemed to go deeper than she has, especially this year. 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  She could have.  I don't know.  I mean, I saw almost the exact same match against Capriati in Canada, up a set, match point, lost it.  I don't know if it's harder for her to win in two sets.  All of a sudden, the third set she came back and won.  You know, she definitely obviously hung in there as best she could, as well.  I mean, it was tough conditions for both of us.  It's sometimes hard always being up and blowing leads and hanging there.  I was the opposite, always down.  They're both tough positions to be in.

Q.  It looked as though you and Serena had a very nice exchange after the match.  Can you describe the conversation?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, I mean, I think we get along great.  It was a great match.  I wished her luck in the coming rounds.  She said  -- I don't know exactly, something to the point of, Great match, good fight.  Something like that.  No, it was very nice.  It was a great match.  I don't think we wish each other harm at all.

Q.  What are your observations of Serena against Hingis?  Obviously, tremendously different styles.  Given where they are in their games right now, what do you think will decide that one?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, I think, you know, like you said, it's a totally different match.  To beat Martina, you overpower her.  Serena obviously has that ability, to overpower players.  The only thing is she has to be careful on her unforced errors.  I mean, she has the game to overpower Martina; it's just how many errors compared to winners she has, I think, will be the difference.

Q.  What about your own game?  How do you assess that?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, I made the best of what I had tonight.  I think I would like to return a little bit better, I mean, both this match and the couple matches I've lost, I really felt like my returns let me down in the summer.  I have to go back and work on that.  Maybe a few more first serves tonight would have helped.  Other than that, I thought I did fairly well.  We're not going to have a lot of long rallies.  We both hit the ball hard and deep.  It's tough to get any rhythm.  The number one thing I'm most disappointed with is returning sometimes in matches.  I don't feel that effective on it.

Q.  That backhand down the line during the tiebreaker, was that just a go-for-it kind of shot?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I guess.  I mean, obviously, it was to save match point.  Sometimes those things just happen.  I mean, there's not a whole lot of thinking on a match point, quick point.  The ball was coming hard.  I hung in there and gave myself some more opportunities, some more chances - just came up short at the end.

Q.  A strange year for you.  You've had your ups, your downs.  How do you assess it?  How do you feel about going into the four Slams?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Disappointing to lose in the quarters.  I haven't lost in the quarters in a pretty long time.  You know, obviously I really felt this year that I've been so consistent and have only lost to players that have played well, have deserved to beat me, and are good players.  I don't think I've lost to too many players outside the Top 10.  I don't feel like I had any bad losses this year.  But I would like to win a few more bigger matches.  You know, it seems like sometimes I do, sometimes I don't.  You know, last year I was able to pull through in the quarters, this year I wasn't.  I got close.  Got to turn that tide of getting close.

Q.  Do you understand what have you to do, why you're losing those bigger matches, or is that a puzzle for you?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, I mean, you never know.  If you knew, you'd hopefully change the tide.  It's been seven Slams now since I won one.  It's not the end of the world.  I feel like I've been competitive in all of them, felt like I had a chance.  Just seems like I've just got to win one or two more matches to get through.  I'll work on it.  Hopefully I'll figure it out.

Q.  You're fully motivated to do that?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah.  I felt like I had a great year after coming back from the knee injury.  Obviously, a little time off before the next tournament and it all starts again.

Q.  Can you think of anything when you played in New Haven against Venus that you were able to use in Serena?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No.  I think they're two more different players now than they were before.

Q.  In what way?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I think they've got different serves.  I think Venus hits the ball a little bit harder.  I think that when they first came out, you know, people grouped them together, "They play similar."  I don't think that's the case.  I don't know.  It's just a feeling you get as a player.  I don't know. 

Q.  When Serena won here, there was a feeling like she had sort of a greater up side than Venus; a lot of experts thought she would perhaps be the better player.  Did you feel that?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I thought so in the beginning.  I thought after playing them both that Serena in the beginning was maybe a little bit more talented or better player.  Certainly Venus has showed us that was wrong.

Q.  Is it just talent or do you think there's some X factor?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Venus stepped it up a whole other gear, pretty much after Serena won her Slam, a few months later.  Venus is a very dominant player, and I think a better player than Serena.  I don't know what happens when they play each other, but just in terms of their games.  You know, I don't know what's going to happen in the long run.  Right now, that's the case.

Q.  If you got a call tomorrow from Regis, and he said, "I have a buddy of yours from the Palisades Tennis Club, you're the lifeline for this person, you have 30 seconds to name the winner of this US Open women's tournament," who would you say?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  If I had to bet, I'd put some money on Venus.

Q.  You're that certain?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I just told you who I would put my money on.  I don't know what's going to happen.  That's who I think might win.  I think the players are great that are left in the field.  It's obviously no slight to them.  If she plays well, it's tough for players to beat her.  It's up to her, I think.

Q.  I know a lot of players don't necessarily watch the matches after they're out of the tournament.  Because the women's final is on prime time, big moment for the sport, do you have any interest in that?  Will you watch it?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No (laughter).  I'm not so good at watching when I'm home.  I'll, you know, watch tomorrow night.  I'll probably still be here tomorrow.  I'd love to watch Pete watch Andre.  That's probably the extent of my tennis summer.

Q.  Will you actually come to the match tomorrow?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I don't think so.  I can't see that, but I don't know. 

Q.  Did you drive back and forth again this year?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, I did. 

Q.  How was it?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It was fine. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT