TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 28, 2001
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What happened? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  The other day in my match I kind of landed on my knee funny, finished the match.  It was almost over at that point.  And it had bothered me that night and yesterday.  So I went and got an MRI.  They said I had a bone bruise, which basically means that it is very painful, probably can't get worse, unless you start compensating and it was just hurting a lot out there.  Just every time I put a lot of pressure on it I could feel it, and I just didn't want to tear anything worse.  You can't win when you are, you know, at this level at 100%.  Especially myself that I need every ounce of movement I can get out of my body, so being lame in the legs doesn't help. 
 

Q.  Did the trainer tell you it was better not to go on?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I didn't think when I woke up this morning I was going to play at all.  I practiced this morning, I was actually a little bit surprised.  Decided to play, I talked to the doctor many times today.  The thing was that you could get worse if you overcompensate.  I wasn't  -- it was hurting quite a bit so it was kind of  -- I had no winning scenario there.  
 

Q.  Jennifer complained of a blister on her foot.  Serena had a little bit of a knee and thigh problem.  Is that court unforgiving in any way in terms of  --
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I don't know what it is.  I think  -- mine was a freak thing -- I hit a forehand; landed on my foot wrong, kind of went over, and, you know, injured my knee so much.  I don't know.  I mean, I think in all sports you get a lot of injuries. This is also the end of a number of weeks in a row for a lot of players, a lot of matches in Indian Wells, here. I started in Scottsdale the week before.  A lot of times it just wears on you, just hard courts in general. 
 

Q.  Which knee was it?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  My right.  
 

Q.  What was that that you had on it?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  The doctor said that not a lot of taping does anything good for a bone, but what they really tried to do was unload the ligaments and stuff around the knee so I wouldn't hopefully hurt one of those when I was, you know, maybe compensating. 
 

Q.  You look to take some time off now?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I don't know.  The doctor says it takes anywhere from 7 to 14 days for it to go away.  I think actually clay courts has been a lot easier on my knee, not as much pounding, so I am hoping that it is the 7 days, you know, hopefully  -- my next scheduled tournament is Charleston in 2 1/2 weeks.  I really have no idea at this point how it will respond.  Like I said I hope it is lower end of those days to heal, and the good thing, like he said, I didn't do anything major, just a very painful injury to have. 
 

Q.  We kind of appreciate your big picture perspective of the Tour.  You come from a lot of perspective, a lot of thoughtfulness.  Can you sort of sum up what has happened around the Williams family in the last couple of weeks; what impact that has had on the women's Tour and your ability to do players to do what they do on the  --
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   It hasn't, I don't think, affected the other players.  I think it's cast a very negative shadow over women's tennis when we are doing, you know a lot of positive stories and doing quite well.  But I think that they  -- just kind of turned it into a circus act whether it is, I don't know, Richard seems to be the one that causes all this commotion and I don't know if he does it on purpose or not.  But it just seems like he likes to say things to get a rise out of people and the press.  I really don't think that the girls have much to do with it.  I think it is just that he talks and then they have to deal with the consequences which is a little unfortunate. 
 

Q.  Some people kind of laugh it off, but when you talk about racism or faking injuries or determining matches beforehand, that seems those are serious things that?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, yeah, I mean, what can you say.  Nobody knows what the deal is.  I am from California; played Indian Wells a lot of times, I'd be surprised if some people yelled what he said they yelled.  But, you know, who can say anything, just kind of go, well shall got to move on. 
 

Q.  Lindsay, it was Elena who said in her press conference after she beat Venus that well, Richard will decide --
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  That was a good precursor, huh?    Nobody knows. I don't know if  -- obviously the girls base their decisions around what he says and he definitely leads them.  But I don't know if they would go so far in their matches.  Like I said, it is more the other stuff that kind of bothers me that he just creates.  And I think like I said, I think they are pretty innocent in the whole scenario. 
 

Q.  We all know Indian Wells is a great venue and you have had tremendous results there.  But we can't remember another a champion being booed or an American woman being booed.  Do you think that was out of place?  Do you think that was overdone.  Do you have any comments?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well I think it was a little bit overdone, like Serena said she was kind of the innocent one in it all, it got taken out on her.  But I think that the fans were reacting to -- obviously there was a lot of speculation about how the match will go.  Of all things, it didn't happen.  I think that to the fans, after all this talk had been written about how the match was going to play out, were just reacting to what they thought was, you know, it being fixed.  I mean, Serena wasn't the one that pulled out.  Serena gave it a great effort the whole week and a half and I mean, it must have been very hard to play in those circumstances. 
 

Q.  As a leader in the women's Tour and in the locker room do you get a palpable sense that there is -- people are running out of patience with the quote, unquote circus act that you have said?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I haven't actually noticed, no.  I think that, you know, in some way or other they have always drawn a lot of kind of controversy or a lot of speculation around them in the past.  I think that it is just the way it goes.  I mean, I don't know about the other players actually, you know, don't want to say anything because I haven't talked to too many here. 
 

Q.  On the one-hand Martina the other day said there is no racism; in fact it can be an advantage to being a black player but Alexandra talked about a junior event in Birmingham and incidents with Sidot and Clement.  Do you think there is any racism on the Tour?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It is hard to say.  No, I have never seen it, but no, I have never been a part of it.  From the other players I don't know, like I was more towards the crowd.  I didn't think that the crowd would yell that kind of stuff.  But, no, I don't see it.  I think if you asked the majority of players they would say no, but we don't have a huge majority of African American players maybe they feel like stuff is taken out on them.  I don't know.  But I don't see it.  
 

Q.  How far do you think Elena will go?   Do you think she will be -- she is obviously Top-10 now very close to the top, but is she going to be a multiple Slam winner?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I have no idea.  I mean, never know how careers play out.  She has improved a lot since I played her almost exactly a year ago at Indian Wells and she has improved a ton in a year.  But you have got to keep improving off that.  But she, you know, in this day and age it is about hitting the ball hard.  She moves well and that is what it takes mentally to get over the hump and keep going fart in Grand Slams is what she really needs.  Only time will tell. 
 

Q.  The areas of her improvement have been?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I think she is more consistent.  She used to make a lot or errors and I think she is a little more patient; hits a few more balls crosscourt than what she was doing last year.  If she keeps working on her serve making it a bigger weapon because she is a tall girl, I am sure she will do really well but it is impossible to say what will happen with Slams.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT