TMS - INDIAN WELLS, WOMEN
March 11, 2001
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  First question for Lindsay.  
 
 
Q.  A little bit harder that you were thinking?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No.  She's a difficult player to play against.  I played her last year in LA.  It was a tough three-set match.  You know, anytime you play a lefty, that's always a little bit awkward to return.  She hits the ball very hard and very low with no spin.  Sometimes that's hard to control.  It was a little windy.  She's a very flashy player.  She can hit some great shots and then miss some shots, so you never really know what you're going to get.  Rhythm is a little tough to come by.  You know, it was a tough match.  You know, definitely could have put it away a little earlier, but still happy to get through in two sets.  You know, hopefully now whoever I play, it will seem like the ball is coming a lot higher, slower, whatever. 
 
Q.  Looked to me like she was going for it every shot at the end.  Is that what you thought, too?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah.  I mean, that's what happens.  When people get down, they go for it.  She's hot and cold.  A lot start going in, and it's also very low, it's very hard to control.  It's hard to explain.  Felt like on the side with the wind, I didn't hit them long.  The side against the wind, I was catching them so late.  Overall, you have to be just hopefully positive and, you know, get ready again to play tomorrow. 
 
Q.  Is this one of your favorite places to play?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, I like playing here a lot.  Anytime it's in California conditions, I think that helps me just because I grew up here, I'm used to the air and the courts and everything that goes with it.  It's been a great weekend that my whole family could come out and a lot of friends.  I've had a good time.  This is probably one of my favorite tournaments to play at.  You know, obviously the desert is nice anyways.  I've always seemed to play pretty well here. 
 
Q.  Seven times in your match the umpire overruled the judges on the side.  One time you got upset or questioned the umpire.  How distracting is that to you?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, I think it's important that the umpire is in charge of the court and asserting a certain amount of power.  I don't think overrules are so bad.  I think, you know, sometimes lines-people miss the calls.  I argued on the one because she was wrong and it was out and there was a mark.  That's the only reason I knew.  But, you know, they do try their best.  You know, I just felt at that point that the linesman was right.  But you have to go with it to a certain point. 
 
Q.  You mentioned your family.  Was that Kennedy the other day with you, your niece?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yes. 
 
Q.  Is she going to play tennis?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I doubt it.  She's like three and a half.  I think my sister doesn't really like this life anyways for me, so I doubt it.  
 
Q.  You play Testud or Raymond. 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I've played Lisa a bunch of times already seems like the last few months.  We keep having closer and closer matches.  Last two times were close this year.  Last week three sets.  They just started the third set, Testud and Raymond.  Obviously I don't know who is going to come through.  I think that's a difficult Round of 16 match, whoever pulls through that.  Testud has been a very good player for a number of years, has a great serve and a great backhand.  You know, I think if I play Raymond, there's a lot more variety, some slices, high balls, kick serves.  Sandrine is a hard-hitter with a big serve.  Different styles.  Have to wait to see who I play.  Both are very good. 
 
Q.  You have both the Williams sisters in your half of the draw.  The way things are broken down, Hingis doesn't seem to have very many players of prominence at all in her half.  How much more difficult is that going to make it for you?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, that's the way draws work out.  At the Australian Open, she had both Williams in her side; here I do.  Overall, I mean, I think I have a tough draw even my next round.  You hope that every match you get sharper and sharper, and that the tough matches help you.  But you never know until the tournament's over.  You never know if everyone gets through.  You never know how everyone's playing.  Maybe beating a lot of great players will give me a lot of confidence.  It's tough, but, you know, women's tennis is like that now with the draws.  Just have to take one opponent at a time.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT