adidas International
January 13, 2001
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  First question for Lindsay, please. 


Q.  Lindsay, I don't think I saw you smile until the end of the third set.  It was a frustrating day?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It's a serious match, it's the finals.  But it was  -- I just didn't feel any rhythm in the first, you know, almost two sets.  A little bit with the wind, I wasn't really used to playing in that windy of conditions, and she wasn't missing any balls.  So I was getting frustrated because I was trying to go for a lot and missing a lot, and then missing some by a lot with the wind.  And it was so swirly, it was difficult to play in.  But then I finally got  -- the important thing, really, 4-3.  I held at 4-2.  4-3, I started hitting the ball like I needed to hit it and continued to hit the ball a lot better in the third set.  You know, I had my chances early in the third and had my chances late in the third and didn't work out.  But I really felt like I turned my game around there in that match. 


Q.  What happened in that game when you were serving to go 4-1 up in the final set?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, it was just, you know, a couple  -- I think I was up 30-love, I think so.  A couple  -- maybe not actually.  I don't know. 


Q.  30-15. 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: 30-15.  I had a double-fault at 30-all, and, you know, it was just one of those things that I fought so hard to get back on top, then once I did get on top, I just couldn't sustain it.  But that was the more tricky side to play with because that was the side that the wind was just really behind your back.  And normally I like being with the wind, but when it's that much, there's a very fine line between hitting out and hitting the ball really long or being able to control it.  So, you know...   But I came back at 5-4, had a few good points there, maybe could have won and broken there and just couldn't do it. 


Q.  In view of the conditions and the way the game fluctuated, is this something that can be totally dismissed as far as what might happen in two weeks' time?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, yeah.  I mean, every match the conditions and the situation, the scenario, everything changes.  But once, like I said, once -- I thought I played much, much better at the end of the second and the third.  That's kind of what I was looking to do here at this tournament.   I was actually pretty disappointed I wasn't able to play last night.  I felt like the more matches I played, the better my game would get as time went on.  So I was happy that I actually was able to pull it into a third set today and give myself some more minutes out on the court. 


Q.  You said it is a serious business out there.  You and Martina seem to have quite a good thing going.  I know it's a professional relationship and a challenge for you.  You seem to enjoy that challenge.  Is that a fair reflection of your rivalry with her?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think so.  I think that, you know, we have a lot of tough matches when we play each other.  We enjoy it.  We are the first ones to congratulate the other one.  You got to enjoy some of the tough points and some of the great gets she made and some of the great shots and vice versa.  She's  -- we had a very tough match out there, and it's enjoyable.  I mean, that's why we play the game.  And it doesn't always come out your way, but if you are in enough of those close matches, eventually they go your way also. 


Q.  Pat Cash has accused women tennis players of being overweight. 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No. 


Q.  And unfit. 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Come on.  (Laughter.)


Q.  What's your view on this?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, I mean, everybody has their opinions to make, and, you know, obviously I have opinions on everybody else too which I don't really say out loud.  But it's a shame.  I think that women tennis players, you know, for the most part are working pretty hard to be fit.  And, you know, I'm really proud of what I've done and how far I've come.  You know, I think a lot of times results speak for themselves.  So I just kind of shrug my shoulders and let it die. 


Q.  To be fair, Lleyton Hewitt said he never has seen you looking better.

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: (Laughing.) Well, that was nice. 


Q.  What's on your arm?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, I have tendinitis in my left wrist -- and throughout my career.  So it flared up a little bit this week.  I think more because of the windy conditions, balls kind of move around.  But today it actually felt good.  So the other day it was really sore, and today was better.  So just  -- there's so much spray, the tape wouldn't come off yet.  So it will come off later tonight. 


Q.  Preventive?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah.  It was sore.  Just trying to make it, you know, less sore and give it more support. 


Q.  I know you get this question quite often, but once again you're coming into a Grand Slam and you're the defending champion.  All the emphasis is going to be on Martina and the Williams sisters.  Are you happy to let other people take a bow and you can just do your thing?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, it's a tough spot to be in to defend a Grand Slam title.  I got a tough draw first match up.  I've got to be ready to go on Monday.  So I don't really worry about where the focus is and who it's on and all that stuff, but more just knowing I need to play well from Monday on and know that I have a good opportunity to repeat, knowing that I've won it there before.  And that's basically my concerns during Grand Slams. 


Q.  After a fluctuating week here, a tough final, where do you think your game is at ahead of the Open?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, it turned around a lot today.  And despite the conditions, I thought that I did okay.  I'm hoping that it's not this windy in Melbourne.  I know Centre Court is more enclosed, so it doesn't get quite as windy as here.  But, you know, I played three matches, got to the finals and  -- but I got to keep going.  I have no time to let down and got to start playing well on Monday.  I mean, hopefully it's good next week. 


Q.  Are you ready?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Felt good today.  I'm glad I ended on a positive note and not losing in two sets.  I'm glad I fought it out and got my game back.  I felt I was hitting the ball a little bit better. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT