adidas International
January 11, 2001
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Lindsay, please.  
 

Q.  Was that close enough to make it interesting?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, it was a close match.  Only the one break in the first set and I was up a break for a little bit at the second set, got broken, and then broke right back.  But it was.  It was a tough match.  The conditions on Court 1 are a lot different than on Centre Court, a lot more windy.  The ball's definitely moving around a lot more.  I think Centre Court's enclosed, it's a lot nicer place to play.  But, you know, tough conditions against an opponent who is always trying to attack me and come in, and just I was solid enough to pull it out.  
 

Q.  What are the memories you've got here now? You left in unfortunate circumstances in the Olympics.  Are you happy to be back here?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I didn't hold it against Sydney.  (Laughing.)  And the nine days I was here were a great experience, you know.  It was hard, I didn't really want to stay around if I couldn't compete.  But I had a great time here, the days I was here.  And I've always done well at this tournament, getting to the finals a number of times; winning it, I think only once.  I think.  I don't know.  I only won once, right?  Okay.  So, I mean, I've always played well here.  I've always enjoyed coming back here, and, you know, it didn't make any bad memories really.  
 

Q.  Are you starting off the year as you would want? How do you feel generally, physically?  Are you ready for another big successful year?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I hope so.  My body feels great.  No problems with, you know, my foot or my back or anything like that.  I just have two blisters on my hand probably from not holding the racquet as much in the off season.  But other than that, I feel physically like I'm in very good shape.  I felt like I worked pretty hard off the court to get ready for the upcoming year, and I was also excited to come down here.  I felt like I had enough time off.  Obviously, every player would enjoy a little bit more time, but I was excited to get on the plane and come down here and play again.  So that was a good sign.  
 

Q.  Lindsay, you said yesterday you were feeling a little bit delicate on occasions.  Is that just nerves, perhaps being a little bit anxious about being injured again?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, I meant that my body has been delicate the last year with little things, big things.  And it seemed like if I had a really long match, I mean, just little things would bother me the next day.  And that's kind of what I meant.  I didn't mean like, you know, I was scared to play.  I just meant that my body has definitely been  -- become a lot more delicate in the last probably year or two.  
 

Q.  Amelie's who you're facing next.  She has got her own injury problems.  It doesn't mean you're going to take it any lighter, are you?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I mean, she had such an up and down year last year.  She started the year off so well here, then a number of injuries, I think, have hampered her career as well.  I remember when she went over on her ankle in the French Open -  I guess '99, not last year -  and she was out for a number of months.  It's definitely probably slowed her progress, but she seems to be playing well here.  I mean, she obviously did great here last year and is on a roll again.  I don't think she beat Monica before, so that's a big win for her.  
 

Q.  What did you do to relax in the off-season?  What other sports?  How did you fill in the time?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Not much.  I mean, it seemed like I was at home for most of the time.  I went to Todd Martin's wedding in New York.  That was, like, my big occasion.  (Laughing.)  But other than that, I was really just, you know -- you'd be amazed at how little it takes to occupy a tennis player.  Imagine just being home and not having to go hit.  But like I said, I was working out a lot in the gym and running, so that occupied my time.  And really just trying to get things organized for the coming here.  
 

Q.  Did you avoid plane travel at all costs?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No.  I was travelling around a little bit, just going to places for a day or two.   No, I wish I had avoided it altogether.  But, no, I was still flying a little bit.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT