US OPEN
September 6, 2000
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR: Questions for Lindsay. 

Q. How long has it been since you groundstroked that efficiently in a big match so
consistently for an entire match?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Probably maybe the Australian Open, the final there. You know, it's
obviously nice to get through this one. It's a little disappointing, only the
quarterfinals, because it felt like a really big match. You know, I went out today and
played exactly the way my coach and I wanted me to, did what I was supposed to. I was able
to be really consistent doing it. That's tough to do when you go for a lot of shots and
still have a consistent margin with it. 

Q. How about the defensive returns of serve today, the stretches you had to make?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah. I mean, it's tough returning her serve. I was able to get a
few of them back in play and just kind of get them deep and kind of, you know, just get a
lot of balls back, then be aggressive when I needed to. It was great. I thought I did,
like I said, everything that I wanted to do.

Q. Were you being facetious or did you and Martina really have a talk?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No, I wasn't kidding. We didn't have like a serious talk. I mean, we
get along very well and we joke around. But she was just giving me a hard time.
"Okay, come on, you have to do this finally. You never win. Beat her." I mean,
it wasn't like a serious talk. We always joke about things like that. 

Q. Do you feel like a million bucks right now?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No. I mean --.

Q. How good do you feel?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Obviously it feels great to get over the hurdle of beating her after
a while. You know, I'm only in the semis. It's not like I just won the tournament or
anything. It was a big match to get through, but you got to come back and play again
pretty soon on Friday. Don't want to take anything for granted. But I'm really happy with
the way I played and excited I was able to get through a tough draw so far and get to the
semis. I'll look to keep going.

Q. Like a lot of the women on the tour today, particularly the power hitters, Serena
makes a lot of noise out there, a lot of grunting, screeching. You make almost no noise at
all. Is that something that you have taught yourself, restraint like that? How is that
possible?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I don't know. I mean, the thing I find funny is people that grunt
loud play a lot of times and don't grunt, then all of a sudden on a bigger point they
always start grunting. I kind of wonder, "Hmm, why are they doing this now?" I
don't know, it's just natural. If I tried to grunt, it would probably sound really funny.

Q. You came here as the defending champion last year. Is it easier to come along this
year with the spotlight elsewhere, maybe a little less pressure?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, I didn't think it was so bad last year being the defending
champion. I would have loved to come back this year winning The Open twice in a row.
There's definitely been much more hype on other players in this tournament. You know, I've
always kind of enjoyed that - being able to have a little bit more privacy and be able to
play my matches along the way a little bit more quietly. You know, like I said, I'm just
happy I won today. There wasn't a lot of pressure on me this tournament I didn't feel,
especially, like I said, with the attention focused on some other players. I really felt,
you know, good the whole tournament so far.

Q. She kept you from being the defending champion last year, and you did the same for
her this year. I know you're a pretty nice player, but does that give you some level of
satisfaction?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah. I mean, it's, like I said, great to still be in the US Open,
be in the semifinals. There's no revenge. I mean, I'm going to lose to her again. I'm
going to beat her again. That's the way it goes. I was disappointed actually losing the
final a few weeks ago in LA, thought I really should have won that. Just happy to get
through. I'm glad, if I had to win one of those matches, I'd rather win here. So happy to
do that.

Q. What did Robert tell you to do? How exactly did you execute it? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: He thought that -- I mean, there's obviously basic things. You have
to serve well, you have to do this. He really thought that I should, you know, play to the
same spot in the court a lot, for a number of times before I went to the open court. You
know, Serena is a very quick player. You know, it's hard to describe, but I'll try. To
keep the ball in the same spot a lot of times and not mix it around too much, because
maybe she gets a better groove that way. Keep the balls deep. I think we practiced that
yesterday and today, really getting a lot more depth on the ball, even if I was going to
miss them long, just be patient with her and all that kind of stuff. 

Q. Do you think she lost or you caused her to lose her poise early in the second set?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, I think, you know, she had a lot of opportunities in the
beginning of the first. I didn't think I was playing that well then. When I finally broke
her at 4-All, then served out the set, that kind of probably deflated her a little bit
because she had a number of breakpoints in the first set and didn't take advantage of
them. Really, when I got up two breaks, I thought that I was playing well. I really
thought I was trying to go for it and force her into some errors. I thought that a lot of
the reason was because of myself. You know, I'm sure she thought I didn't play well, but I
thought I played well not to make her play well.

Q. Your attitude was much more aggressive than before in your matches with Serena. Did
you think about that before coming into the court?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah. I mean, I wanted to be more aggressive and be in control of
the points. You know, saying that and doing it is a different thing. You know, I really
felt tonight I got a good hit at the ball and wasn't being jerked around too much and was
able to dictate where the ball was going. Like I said, you know, that's what I'd love to
do every time. It's tougher sometimes than others. I was able to, you know, return her
serve pretty well and get on top of the points that way. 

Q. Is there a sense of relief for you to be feeling healthy and back to top form?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah. I mean, such a frustrating four or five months, middle of the
year. Sometimes I haven't gone through. It feels great to be able to play here a hundred
percent and not have to worry about injuries and little things going wrong, being able to
just play full out. I haven't had this much freedom on the court physically since probably
almost a year ago. That's the number one thing I'm happy about. You know, just trying to
finish the year off well now. 

Q. While acknowledging that you're not going to win any 100-yard dashes in the
Olympics, this is some of the best running you've done in a long time also, putting
yourself in position to hit the ball. Why are you running better right now?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, I think just because I feel a lot healthier out there. You
know, back injury in the middle of the year hurt me a lot in terms of just confidence and
moving and also just training. You know, hurting my foot a few weeks ago was a downer, but
I stayed really positive about it. I really felt like the last two weeks I've been able to
practice really hard, chase after a lot of balls, in the matches go for them. I felt in a
good rhythm, a lot of matches, felt like I was able to practice moving. I'm not going to
get every ball, but if I try my hardest, and physically I'm a hundred percent, I'm not the
slowest thing out there.

Q. (Inaudible) with the match points?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It was funny, because it had the feel of a 5-4 game, 6-5. It felt so
tense. My last match point I had a second serve. It was by far the slowest serve I had all
evening. I was like, "Oh, my God." Go to the chair, I was thinking, you know, it
felt at that time like it was so close. You look up and it's only 5-2. So that was a
relief because that game was pretty tense. When I looked at it, when I took a step back, I
was still up two breaks, you know, still in good position. You know, served a good last
game, two aces. It was a good way to put an end to the match.

Q. At one point you offered the chair umpire a thousand dollars. 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: The ball was so far out. She was telling me it was in. The
changeover, I said, "I'll give you a thousand dollars if you go down there, look at
the mark and tell me that's in, because there was no way that ball was in." She was
like, "Oh, well." 

Q. Did that take the tension away? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I mean, what can you do? I don't like it when, you know, the
mark's there, it's out. She's telling me it's in. She should say she doesn't see it or
wasn't looking instead of telling me it's in. "Wait, I can promise you that ball was
not in." She didn't look, so. 

Q. Serena missed a lot of backhands. Did you specifically go that way or is that just
the way points developed?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: A little bit of both. I mean, sometimes that's the way points go.
But I was trying to, like I said, just hit to one spot a lot of the times, and a lot of
times once the first or second ball of the rally went there, I just stayed with it going
there, then waited till maybe the court opened up to go to her forehand side. You know,
once I saw she was missing a few, I mean, she's going to come up with some good shots and
I'm going to stay with that game plan.

Q. Initially you were having some problems serving to the ad court. 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I didn't think my first serve percentage was all that high,
especially in the first set. I think it's a little bit of trying to go for too much and
then just not making enough first serves in. I tried to get just a few in to get some
rhythm, you know, a little bit off the hundred percent serve. Found it a little bit more.
But, you know, that was the one thing I maybe could have done a little better. I didn't
get broken, but I don't think I had a very high percentage of first serves.

Q. Why that side particularly?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I mean, I think for a righty, that's the natural, more difficult
side. You're not really hitting side spin, you've got to hit it inside out. I think that's
a little more difficult. So I'll try and work on that the next few days.

Q. Then you had the ace down the middle early in the second set. 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, that helped. Then even serving for the match, I was able to
get one out wide. So I'm going to come up with some once in a while. But just had to get
back in a good rhythm doing it.

Q. Were you reading her serve that well or was she just not serving with her normal
pace? You were with her serve pretty well. 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think I learned a little bit from playing in LA maybe about where
she likes to go or maybe trying to see with her toss a little bit. I mean, you have to
guess a little bit. A lot of times, sometimes that just happens, you guess right. Then I
think she started missing a few more because I started maybe to get a few of them back in
play that she didn't expect. Then she gave me a lot more second serves as the match went
on. 

Q. Is there a gambling side to you?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: What do you mean? 

Q. You don't normally find players offering a thousand dollars. 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No. 

Q. And then talking with Martina. 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No. The umpire was just telling me, "No, no, that ball was
in." You know, I knew she was wrong, so I was only going to put money on something
when I know I'm right. No, I mean, there was no bets made with Martina and I. 

Q. Did you kid with her about losing to Venus?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, no. It started last year because I played the first semifinal
against Serena and she played Venus. She's like, "Well, you better, you know,
win." So I lost. I saw her in the locker room. She was like shaking her head at me
right before she played. Obviously she won. This time she's, "You're first
again." I don't want too big a deal made of this. We get along very well. You know, I
think she feels like she sides with me against them. I don't know. 

Q. Do you side with her against Venus?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: She's fun to joke with. You know, Venus doesn't talk to me much.
Serena, I don't see all that much. I mean, she's a little bit more friendly maybe. But, I
mean, Martina and I have talked for many, many years, you know, have a better rapport with
her.

Q. So that's a yes? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: (Laughter). 

Q. Can you tell us about playing Dementieva? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I mean, I haven't obviously thought about it too much. I played her
a number of times this year. Good player. I mean, she must be playing well here. She hits
the ball hard. You know, what I've had success with in the past is trying to take
advantage of her serve. If you hit the balls hard and deep, in the past she's had a little
bit of trouble with that. So I'm going to try and do that again. I haven't thought about
it too much. I'll probably think about it more tomorrow. 

Q. Just in a joking way, do you go back to Martina and put pressure on her?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Oh, God, I think everyone's made too big a deal of this. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT