US OPEN
September 4, 2000
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







THE MODERATOR: First question for Lindsay. 

Q. You mentioned on television something about the difficulty in playing with the wind.
Certainly, it didn't seem to keep you from getting off to a really quick start?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, what I meant is I think it's just difficult conditions for
anybody to play in. I mean you're not going to hit a lot of aces, you're not going to --
it's just -- you have to play a different type of game. And for me tonight, I was trying
to hit just a lot of first serves in and just play smart in the wind, keep a lot of balls
in with the wind and, you know -- against the wind, and hit them hard. But, you know,
they're gonna stay in. Be a little bit more aggressive but a little bit more conservative.
It worked well. She adapted a little bit better in the second set. A few close games I was
able to pull out to be able to win 6-4. 

Q. Confirm or deny, in high school, your teammates used to call you "Bagel"
and you actually used to give girls a game in a set just to make them feel good?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, yeah. I played high school tennis for two years, and I would
never win 6-0. I would always win 6-1. You know, I never thought that was, you know, right
to win 6-0 against girls that were just, you know, learning to play. They called me that
more sarcastic because I went through it. 

Q. Any thought of doing that in the first set? You were cruising there?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I mean, obviously it's different in a Round of 16 in a Grand
Slam. But I mean I was really happy I got off to such a great start. Couple games didn't
play so well in the second set, but I'm happy with the way it went. 

Q. When you first started playing on the Tour, was there ever a time when you sort of
did that actually, because you sort of forgot about it?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, I mean it was pretty funny. I don't know if I should say this,
but the other day when I was playing Gala Leon Garcia, I was up 6-0, 3-0 with two breaks,
I was thinking, "Okay, when am I going to give her a game." I was trying to
decide. Then at 4-0, I got broken right away. I was never at the point of winning 0 -0,
and I just don't think it helps matters. I don't know.

Q. Must be nice to have your game --?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, I was playing really well. I was very confident. I would never
do that if I was up by -- I mean, you know, it's just -- I don't know, maybe it's wrong. 

Q. Your game, though, what I'm saying is that obviously your game, you have to feel
good about where you're at?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I'm playing well. Playing consistent, more consistent than I
have been the last few months. That's good. Beating some good players a lot easier than I
have in the last few months. But a tough match coming up, different type of player than
I've played. Clijsters hits hard, but Serena serves well, hits hard. And on fast courts
it's difficult. Another thing is now we have to wait and see what the weather's like then.
I think that could be a big difference if it's calm or windy. But I mean I'm happy with
the way I've played so far, and hopefully I can keep it going. 

Q. Tough time with Serena?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah. I mean the last few times I lost two really close three-set
matches, here in the semis last year and a couple weeks ago in LA. It just seems like both
of those matches I was never able to come up on the big points and she was. And, you know,
it's been so close that I felt like both matches could have gone either way, and they both
went her way, so...

Q. Everyone always talks about how hard they hit the ball. She didn't play much junior
tennis. Are you surprised that on big points she's mentally that tough with relatively
little experience?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I mean she goes for it. And, you know, if you step back just
an inch against her, you know, she has a short ball, she puts it away when she's not
missing those balls, at least against me on these big points when I played her. It's
great, without a lot of experience, without playing a lot of matches, I probably played
five times, six times as many matches as she's played, and she's handled it very well.
It's tough to come out and win a Grand Slam like she did last year, came out, won her
first Grand Slam out of nowhere. It's very tough to do. 

Q. Did you watch the match there?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I didn't. I watched the two games on TV in the early first. It
didn't look like great tennis early on, so I went out to lunch. When I came back it was
3-0 in the second.

Q. Did it surprise you that Dokic sort of went away in the second?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No, I mean I think the same thing, when I watched Venus play
Shaughnessy the other night. If you don't win that, they get on a roll. It wasn't
surprising. I found out when I got here how close the first set actually was. You know, if
you're a player like that, not a very top player, you really have to win those close sets
because they might get on a roll like that.

Q. Have Serena and Venus forced you and the rest of women's tennis to up your level a
little bit?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah. I mean the competition's gotten a lot higher in all aspects of
the game. I mean a couple years ago Martina won I think like 11 tournaments and forced
everybody else to get better. Now Venus, by winning all these matches in a row, is forcing
everyone to try and beat her here. And Serena, the same last fall when she won the Open. I
think everybody's just doing a lot for women's tennis, trying to get it better and better.
And the better all the top players can play, the closer the matches and the more the fans
like it and the better it is for everybody.

Q. You obviously were on your own path, you lost weight, got in great shape and you've
always hit the ball hard. Monica's trying to lose weight. The Williamses, since you were
already hitting the ball hard, have you had to make any real adjustments for them? Other
people try to get stronger, you already hit the ball hard.

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I think the Williamses are, especially in women's tennis, the
first players that are that aggressive, hit the ball hard and are such great movers.
Everyone's who's big hitters like Mary, myself, Monica, none of us can move nearly as well
as the Williamses. For me, no, I'm not trying to get stronger, build muscle, I just try to
get quicker. That's basically, if you're in position for the shots and you can handle
them, it's gonna help your game a lot more. I don't know what the other players are doing.
I think Martina is trying to get stronger so she can hit the ball harder. For me, I'm just
worried about mobility. 

Q. For you it's the mobility?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: That's it, yeah. Obviously you still work on your game, but that's
the number one thing. 

Q. What is it about Serena's game in particular that's given you trouble in the past?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: She does everything well. She serves well, hits the ball hard, hits
the ball deep. It's hard to put -- play an aggressive game against a ball that's coming
that hard. You really have to be in position and be timing the ball very well. And on
quick courts, you know, it's very tough to control a ball that's coming at that high a
pace. And, again, when someone has a good serve, it's hard to get off to the point -- get
off to a good start on the point because, you know, if you're serving well on a quick
court, it's very hard for a returner. So, you know, I have to serve well. I have to try
and, you know, keep the balls deep and attack and do everything that I always try and do.
But I just have to do it at a level higher than normal.

Q. Despite your record against her, do you enjoy playing her?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I don't lose 2-0, I don't get killed. Sometimes it's harder to
lose the heart-breaking ones. But it's knowing that you had every chance in the world to
win, is a lot better losing the match like that than knowing that you had no chance at
all.

Q. This coming match with Serena is probably one of the matches the fans are looking
forward to the most. How do you look at it as a player?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, you have to be very up for it. You have to, you know, that is
what we play for, is to play the top four or five best players. That's where you get most
excited. I think most of us have a pretty good feeling that whoever wins that match,
there's an easier match maybe in the semifinals; that this match is a really tough one to
get through. And you just got to come out strong. And hopefully, you know, the crowd is
into it. And I don't know when the match will be, night or day, but hopefully we can both
play at a high level so it is good tennis. I thought last night's match might have been a
little better with Seles and Capriati, it didn't live up to the hype they gave it.
Hopefully we can.

Q. Do you sleep well the night before a match on the road?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I sleep way better on the road than at home. I have no idea
why.

Q. Would you rather have a lower profile quarterfinal? I know you tend to be a player
who tries to maybe fly below the radar a little bit?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, I mean you've got to take what's given to you. Obviously I
would probably rather play, you know, Dementieva or who - I don't really know who else is
left. I know that's in the top. You have to take what's given to you. And, you know,
Serena, at the time, is ranked six or something. So that's fair game. So, you know, it's
gonna be a tough one to get through.

Q. Was the match you played last year against Serena, a match that you almost won,
you're so close, once you lose that match and Serena wins, people kind of forget about
that. A year later do you kind of think, "Here's my chance to get that back"?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I was pretty good at getting over that loss. It was tough, but, you
know, I mean a lot of times if I felt I played well and just missed one or two
opportunities, I'm okay with it. And it was -- it's probably better to see that person go
on and win. You rather lose to the winner than to the person who the next day doesn't play
very well. It was good that she continued to play well. But, you know, you like to see the
tide turn eventually. I lost a few really close ones and, you know, hopefully one of these
days I can come through them. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT