US OPEN
August 29, 2000
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR: Questions for Lindsay.  
 
Q. How did that foot feel today?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It felt really good. Started feeling a lot better on about Thursday
of last week. I was a little worried at the beginning of last week. Once the end of the
week came, it felt much better. I don't feel it anymore. Hopefully it won't be a problem.  
 
Q. Seemed like you were pretty eager to get out there today, start The Open. 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah. The first day I practiced out on that court, it was either
Thursday or Friday. As soon as I step on that court, I really love that court. I think the
two times I've lost, I lost both times to the girls that went on to win it. Felt like I
played some of my best matches on that court. It's a quick court, gets a little breezy.
I've always felt like I played really well out there. Happy to get out there today and get
it over with quickly. 
 
Q. You have the toughest draw, the No. 2 seed. Did you look at that and say, "I'm
2, not 20"?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think that's tough. Sometimes the way the women's tour does the
seeding, doesn't seem like it's all that fair. It's completely out of a hat. If you're 2
or 1, you can get 5 or the 9 player. Somehow you think that you've worked so hard, maybe
you should get a little bit of a reprieve there. That's the way draws go. It can work in
your favor or against your favor. With tough draws, if you pull through it, it's make you
a stronger player, a stronger person. I haven't looked obviously too far ahead. I know who
is in the sections, but it's a long way off. I have a tough match in the second round, so
I'm thinking about that. 
 
Q. I know when you won Wimbledon, you made the point of saying you felt like you really
earned it because of who you beat to get there. This is even deeper going down. If you
have all these tough early matches, is it still possible --?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: If you're playing well, it doesn't matter who you play. If a player
is playing well and they're hitting their shots, they're going to win. If you're not
playing that well, you struggle sometimes, you have longer matches, you kind of waste your
energy in the beginning, sometimes that can turn out to hurt you. Today I played well, and
I feel like if I keep playing the way I did today and strike the ball like I have been,
hopefully it won't be a problem whoever I play.  
 
Q. When you think about the biggest weapons that some of your opponents have on the
tour, where does Venus Williams' serve rank? What makes her serve so special?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think with Venus, she serves obviously very hard. She probably has
the hardest serve. I don't necessarily think she has the best serve in women's tennis.
It's definitely hard. Whenever you have serves coming at you at 115, you're obviously not
going to get a good hit to start the point off. 
 
Q. What are the things that distinguish the ones that are the best from hers? What
would she need to do to make it not just the fastest but also the best?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I mean, it's obviously one of the best. I didn't mean it like it
wasn't. I think placement is sometimes more important. If a serve comes at you at 115, all
you have to do is stick your racquet out. If it's sliding away from you or if it's hitting
the lines, even at a slower pace, you're really not going to get that serve back. I think
she's been working on that a lot more, making sure you don't hit it so hard, but where
you're hitting it to where your opponent can't get to it. 
 
Q. How difficult is her first serve? How much of a drop-off is it to the second serve
with her?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I mean, obviously it's a very good serve. I mean, she's done very
well. I think with anybody's serve, you get a much better chance to hit their second
serve.  
 
Q. You had such a good start to the year. Is it disappointing since then that your body
has given you so many problems? Could this Open make up for the whole year?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Oh, it has. It's been a very challenging year mentally, a year
that's been difficult in that aspect. Did start the year great. You know, it's unfortunate
the middle of the year was lost a little bit to injuries, a lot of days where I couldn't
practice, just trying to get better. But that's the way it goes in any sport. I've played
eight years or whatever, and haven't had major injuries which required surgery or sitting
out for months and months. I have to look back that I'm pretty lucky that only minor
injuries have hurt my career. But, yeah, I mean, doing well here and possibly winning two
Slams in one year would obviously make it a much better year. But, you know, just looking
now to try to come back and stay healthy and win tournaments. I only have two titles this
year, which isn't a lot - used to having a few more. I'm going to work on that for the
rest of the year. 
 
Q. At this point in your career, you've had a couple injuries. Does coming back after
one make you more tentative on the court? Are you able to play through it? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think both. I think you get used to playing not at 100%, and
sometimes that affects your game. I was so excited the other day when I realized I was
going to be able to play 100% with no pain, being able to give it all I got. The last
Grand Slams, it hasn't been that way. I think at the same time once you've been through a
few injuries, maybe you appreciate it a little bit more, you're a little bit more excited
to get back out there. At the same time, it does keep wearing on you when something else
comes up, then something else hurts. It can get a little bit tiring.  
 
Q. Your last injury was the foot?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah. 
 
Q. Can you take us through the injury and how long your recovery took?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I was playing a match in Montreal. The outside of my foot, I kind of
rolled over on it, not the ankle, but the foot part, and sprained my foot. One of those
things that probably never happens in your career, and it happened to me right when I felt
like I was playing well again. I had to take about six days off, got it better. The first
few days I hit, it was pretty sore. Kind of cleared up. 
 
Q. When did you feel 100% again?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Like on Thursday, it was feeling much better. I think by Saturday,
when I was playing, I played a lot on Saturday, it felt much, much better. 
 
Q. Did you know you could sprain your foot?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: The fifth metatarsal. Didn't know that.  
 
Q. How fit were you at Wimbledon then? What percentage fitness would you give yourself
at Wimbledon?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I would say probably around 70%.  
 
Q. That was still with the back and everything?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah.  
 
Q. Obviously all the talk is about the Williamses and the power. A lot of people see
you as the only player, because you have a game similar to theirs, you have the power. Do
you feel maybe you're the one person who can really threaten them?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: If I'm healthy and playing well, definitely. At the same time, you
know, Mary Pierce has always kind of been there also, but she's been hurt, too. She has
the power that can do it also. But, yeah, like I said, if I can stay healthy and get
through this tournament, build some momentum, winning the first few rounds, obviously I
feel much better about playing them. You know, they're both obviously playing very well.
It's going to take a lot to stop them. 
 
Q. How do you see Hingis combatting you and the Williams sisters? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think actually the fast courts here help Martina. I think it helps
her serve a lot. Maybe a little bit easier for her to hold serve. You know, the few times
I've seen her play, the last few times I've seen her play them, I don't think she was as
aggressive as maybe she needed to be. If you look back, in my mind, she was always more
aggressive than she has played this year. I think she knows that. When I hear her talk,
she's talking about trying to get more power, be more aggressive. I think if she keeps
working on that, that will help her chances a lot. 
 
Q. In her match yesterday, she easily could have sat on the baseline. She was at the
net. 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Is this Martina?  
 
Q. Hingis, yeah. You could see her changing her game to get ready for the Williams
sisters. These changes that are going on in her game, do you see that as the thing that
she absolutely has to do in order to deal with the Williams' power?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, it's a good -- it's good to have different options to fall
back on and be able to mix it up. Coming to net is obviously one way of being aggressive.
I mean, if any player can stay at the baseline and come in and win points, that's going to
help their cause a lot. It's a little bit easier to come in against her opponent in the
first round than it is to come in against someone who hits the ball hard, moves well, hits
the ball deep. 
 
Q. She is an excellent volleyer. 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think she does everything very, very well. 
 
Q. Even given 100% health, what is the chance you're going to be able to regain the
confidence you had in Australia during these upcoming two weeks?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It's surprising how being healthy actually makes your confidence go
up a lot. I feel very good. Like I said, in the summer in LA, I thought I was playing
well, lost a close match to Serena in Canada, I was playing well until my foot came up.
Coming into here, I haven't felt like I lost my timing. Going into Wimbledon, I didn't
feel like I was timing the ball well and I wasn't hitting the ball cleanly. In terms of
how I'm hitting the ball is very good right now. Like I said, playing a match today, I
feel a lot better about that, winning easily. Thursday will be a good test in I play
Clijsters, that's a tough match, see how I respond to that.  
 
Q. You are always honest and frank. Would you comment on the Olympic situation that
happened with Lisa, your feelings about that?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It was a difficult situation. From what the players have heard, even
what Billie said, she always said, "Well, you know, my decision is easy because I'm
going off the rankings." I think that's when the problem started. Lisa thought that
was the way it was going to be. After the Williams won Wimbledon, I kind of knew, Uh-oh,
there's going to be a problem. How can you not pick the Williams sisters? They've won
three of the last five Grand Slams, are a great doubles team. Unfortunately, I think
Billie kind of put herself into a corner by saying earlier she was going to go off the
rankings. I do think that Lisa was misled, it was unfortunate, they should have said in
the beginning, "There is no criteria for the doubles; we're going to go with the best
team, that's that." A lot of problems would have been avoided. There's no right
answer because the United States has great players. Lisa deserves a spot on the team.
Serena obviously deserves a spot on the team. Whoever you tell no, it's not really fair or
right. 
 
Q. Do you think it has more to do with Venus saying, "I'm not going to the
Olympics if my sister is not going"? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Personally, I don't think so. Billie would have to answer that. I
think it came down more to how do you tell the team that has won three the last five Grand
Slams that they're not the best team. That's very difficult.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT