WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2000
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR: Good evening, everyone. Lindsay Davenport.  
 
Q. Didn't seem an easy victory for you? No walk in the park?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, it was a lot easier than the other day. I'll take two sets
over three sets when I'm down any day. It got much better as the match went on. I broke a
lot of times in the first set, but got broken right back I think twice, then finally
managed to serve it out. From there, the second set was a lot better. Felt like I was
timing the ball a lot better than I had the first two matches. If anything, that was a
good step that I needed to take. Hopefully it keeps going.  
 
Q. A couple of the other players, Pete Sampras, Martina Hingis, did not come to the
Champions celebration. You obviously made it a point to show up. Why did you do that?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, it was a little bit of luck involved with the scheduling. They
told me they would make it as easy as possible. It's tough when I was playing the next
match on. It was likes 6-2, 2-1. "Okay, your turn to go out there." I was a
little nervous about the timing. It worked out unbelievably. I got to watch like the first
20, 30 minutes on TV, get some stuff done before I played. It was just amazing to see all
the players that were introduced, especially right before me, like Bjorn Borg, John
McEnroe. It was unbelievable to be a part of that. I'm really happy it worked out that I
could be. 
 
Q. If you could have played a doubles match with any of the players out there?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Gee, that's impossible to answer. Well, there's so many. All those
people are tremendous. I would hate to just pick one out of those.  
 
Q. Were there a few that were really special for you to see?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, like I said, it was really neat to see how the crowd reacted,
especially to Borg. I don't think he's been back here. I don't think he's been back, I'm
not sure. That i think was probably the best moment of the ceremony. 
 
Q. The tabloid coverage here is so much different than other Grand Slams. Have they
pretty much stayed away from you or have you had any bizarre questions and stuff?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I don't know if they've stayed away. I haven't talked to any of
them.  
 
Q. I mean, over the years. 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think so. Try not to look into those and see what they say. I
imagine that they have. 
 
Q. Do you make it a point of never reading them?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think there's some papers that you can read that are a little bit
more appropriate than some of the others. I can read like The Times that report actually
on the tennis. 
 
Q. Are there questions that you think are out of bounds that they ask of the other
players or of you?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I'm sure there are. You know, every player, they like to pick on one
subject with them, whether it's Kournikova or Dokic or whoever. I think they always are
looking for something, especially sometimes looking for stuff that's not even there,
trying to make a story out of it, misinterpreting the answers on purpose. That can always
be tough, how you answer them. 
 
Q. Are you saying that you don't read them or do you sometimes read them just to get
amused?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No, I don't read them here. 
 
Q. How did this match help you prepare for Jennifer?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, it was nice to play. The last two players I've played have
been baseliners with two hands off both sides, hit the ball relatively hard. But it's
tough. I mean, Jennifer hits the ball a lot harder than this girl I played today. It will
be tricky kind of getting used to the speed of her shots on the grass. You know, it was
good. I thought I returned a little bit better today than I did the other day, was
creating a little bit more depth, creating rallies a little bit better. You know, Jennifer
will definitely have to be the aggressor from the beginning, not let her get the first
shot on the ball. On grass, once you hit one great shot, the point is tough to recover.
I'm going to really have to go for my returns and get the first, like I said, hit at the
ball. 
 
Q. Can you compare your form to last year, where are you at this point now?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It's probably not as great as it was going last year. I thought
coming in here I felt really confident and was hitting the ball and timing the ball great.
This time I didn't start off that way, was really fighting it for a few days. Finally the
last two, three days, it's clicked a little bit better. I just hit again after the match,
and I hit very well. I'm very happy about that. Hopefully I think it's coming around. A
little bit in Australia, I didn't feel like in the beginning I was doing all that well. By
the end, I was hitting great. Hopefully I just keep loose. I don't think I had the same
confidence last year as winning the first three rounds so easily. 
 
Q. Did it help you that your opponent today was anchored at the baseline, never came to
the net, made you react and force the issue?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I guess (laughter). Yeah, I mean, it's nice to be able to be in
control of the points again. That's her style of game anyways. But, yeah, I felt like I
was in control of a lot of points. 
 
Q. What's the difference between what you expect to see in the next match?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Like I said, Jennifer hits the ball a lot harder, is a lot more
aggressive than this girl probably is. Serve is probably a little bit better, is much more
aggressive than the girl I played today. 
 
Q. Did you pick up anything from that match you played in Australia that you think
might help you?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think so. I played her again a few weeks after Australia, haven't
played her since February. But grass is always a little bit different. You don't
necessarily get into rallies, so the -- as points go on, there's certain things I think
she might do. Probably won't get to that point on grass. I think I've got a fairly good
read on her serve hopefully. I haven't seen her play here yet, if she's changed it a lot.
I think I know where she likes to go. On grass, they're not long rallies. It's the one who
hits the best shot first. 
 
Q. Do you think you played Jennifer at her best yet or do you think she might still
have a level left in her?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I have no idea. I mean, she was at a pretty high level in Australia,
then I think, you know, splitting from Harold, she kind of went down again. It looks like
the last few weeks, she's been winning some matches again and trying to get back up there.
I don't really know her well enough to say what she has left in her or how badly she wants
it or anything like that. So I don't know. 
 
Q. She said she thought the last couple times she played you, you had the mental edge
on her. Did you feel that way?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Maybe. I mean, in Australia it seemed like it. It was getting close
in the second set. I was able to pull it out. That was a huge match. I guess so. You know,
it's a little bit different meeting earlier in a tournament than the latter stages. Like I
said, it looks like she's played well so far. You know, obviously I'll try and keep the
mental edge. But I don't know. 
 
Q. How is your situation in doubles been affecting -- your lack of a situation in
doubles affecting your play?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It's been different. You know, obviously I would have loved to have
played doubles. It's also nice maybe just to go work on some singles stuff. Like today we
were able to go hit after my match, tomorrow just worry about practising for Jennifer, and
not playing doubles. So I'll probably think about it at the end of this tournament, if I
liked it or not, see if that's something I would want to consider in the future or not.
Kind of nice not having to be at the courts on your days off or having to wait around.
I'll see how it goes. 
 
Q. Is it kind of nice to see players like Lilia Osterloh and Brandi getting to the
fourth round?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think there's a lot of Americans that have gone through, Lisa
Raymond, Jennifer, myself, both Williams, Monica. It's been really great. There's always
like a level of players, it seems, that always gets forgotten because they're not at the
top, like Osterloh, Brandi, even Raymond to a certain point. It's been a very good
tournament, especially after the Americans didn't do so well in Paris. It's nice to see
everyone still around here.  
 
Q. Going back to the Champions Parade, who was your hero growing up?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I mean, I've always said if you grew up in the '80s and started
playing tennis, you were a girl, it was impossible not to have Chris Evert as your role
model. I mean, she was everywhere, really just embodied what the whole sport should be,
acted so great. That was her. As I got older and started developing my own game, things
changed. She didn't play the same style necessarily. But when I first got into tennis,
when I was five or six in the early '80s, she was it.  
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT