TMS - FORO ITALICO
May 18, 2000
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. When were you advised that you couldn't play?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, I was warming up this morning for the match and I went to hit
a forehand and my back locked up on me. And I went to see the trainer and it's just, you
know, really, really sore right now. And they don't really know what's wrong when you
first do it. So I kind of knew right when I hurt it that it would be tough to play.

Q. Something new?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah. It was fine yesterday. It was great the other -- I mean, it
just came out of nowhere today.

Q. What is it exactly? The doctor, what did he say?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It's a -- I think I have this right --

Q. A low back sprain?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: A low back sprain on more of the left side. And for now, from what
they told me, they'll know more in the morning, but they think it might be one of the
joints.

Q. Did they already tell you how long you have until you play?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No, they have no idea.

Q. Is your withdrawal a precaution, Lindsay, for the French Open?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No. I couldn't have played today if I wanted to.

Q. Is it the first time that something like that happened to you?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It's happened before about five years ago, so, you know, backs are
really tough. It's probably, you know, the area of the body that would affect you the most
in tennis. I haven't had a problem with it. It came on totally by surprise, and, you know,
at this point I have no idea, you know, obviously when I can play again or when it will be
better to practice. So, you know, I just have to hope that it gets better in time for
Paris.

Q. This means you know when you're going to Paris anyway?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I know nothing. I'm going to, you know, most likely stay here so I
can get it treated, and I don't see myself leaving.

Q. Did you withdraw from Madrid?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No. I mean this just happened, like, two hours ago. I haven't looked
into the future at all. I mean, you know, I have no idea what's going to happen. 

Q. It has not been officially said, but you won't play doubles or will you?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: We haven't talked about it yet. I haven't seen my partner, I haven't
talked to her, but most likely no. I mean I can't move today, so unless there's, like, you
know, a miracle tonight, I don't think that will be happening.

Q. Did you hear something pop with it?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No, I didn't hear anything. But I just turned, hit a forehand and
there was just intense sharp pain that went through my back. And, you know, right away you
can just feel it. I don't know, the back is probably one of the worst things to hurt, and
I slowly finished warm-up just by hitting a few serves, and, you know, in the half hour or
so that I came to see the trainer it stiffened up even more to the point where even
standing there I couldn't really twist. So, you know, it's hard to move around now. Like I
said, you never know how injuries go and how long it takes to heal. Hopefully in the next
few days it will loosen up, I'll be able to start practicing and begin my preparation for
Paris next week.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT