TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
April 1, 2000
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







WTA: Questions for Lindsay. 

Q. Was the wind bothersome? Didn't seem to be able to control your forehand. 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I think the wind definitely played a part in it. If you're not
on your toes and ready to go, the wind's going to make your life difficult. I was
definitely a step slow today. Combined with the wind and combined with Martina not missing
too many balls, it made for a rather ugly day for myself. 

Q. You said after the match with Sandrine that you felt your foot a bit, you'd be
spending the next day with treatment, tests. 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No, my foot was fine. It was just maybe a cramp. I don't know what
it was at the top of my foot the other night. No, I just think my body didn't recover as
well as my foot did. That's life. You know, Andre struggled with it a little bit
yesterday. I didn't come back as fresh as I needed to come back either. 

Q. Have you played good matches in the wind?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Oh, yeah, many. I don't lose too many in the wind actually. US Open
is always extremely windy, Australia. Today was just one of those days when you lose a
little confidence in the wind, it's tough to combat it.

Q. No aces. Pretty shocking. 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah. It was impossible. I just didn't serve well. I mean, wasn't
too many parts of my game that I was overall pleased with. 

Q. Did you feel when you got back to 3-4 after being down Love-4 that everything was
going to be all right?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, not all right, but at least I was back into it. I was
thinking, "Oh, God, I feel like Monica now." I mean I got right back into it. I
put myself right back out of it. You know, it's nice to be able to write this day off and
try and forget it, look back at the last few months instead, go on from there. 

Q. Did she play your serve in the deuce court any differently than she did at Indian
Wells? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I don't think so. I mean, she put in a lot of first serves today. In
the wind, that's important. I probably should have taken a lot off it and gotten my first
serve in. I wouldn't have been stuck hitting second serves so much. But she just served
very consistently. You know, like I said, I wasn't moving all that well. Returning can be
a little bit difficult then.

Q. When you say you weren't moving so well, you also mentioned that your body was
having trouble recovering. Was that why?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I mean, I think so. I just felt really heavy today. My muscles. I
still had a day off, so it was probably not a great excuse. But, you know, it's just one
of those days where I felt really flat, just heavy. 

Q. When you came back to break her at Indian Wells, she visibly sagged. Today you came
back to 4-3, she didn't buckle. Did you sense that?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, I think if I had held my serve to go 4-All, it would have been
a little different. She still had the lead at that point. When I broke her at Indian
Wells, it was to make it even. If I had held serve there to make it 4-All, a couple of
those games in the beginning I had a game point here or there and didn't win. Right away
she breaks me back to go up 5-3. Then she was fine, back confident again. You can come
back with Martina, but you've got to make sure you get even or on top of her before she's
going to, you know, get visibly frustrated. 

Q. (Inaudible)?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I mean, obviously it would have been great to win again, win
another tournament in a row. For as well as I've been playing this year, Martina has
played just as well. Every time I've beaten Martina in the past, I've played some of my
best matches. Today I didn't play my best. That's what happened. You know against Martina,
you're going to have to play well. I didn't do that. You know, now we get ready for a
round of tournaments on clay, which favors her, then back on some grass and hard court,
which hopefully goes my way again.

Q. That match Thursday night started and ended awfully late. I realize you had a day
off. As a person who plays or enjoys tennis, do you look at that and say, "Too bad a
match like that has to start so late"? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, it was disappointing that I just finished at 12:00 or 12:30.
Not a lot of time to recover for the next day, although, like I said, I had a day off. It
was a tough match. It was very emotional for myself, being up a set and a break, then
fighting back, down a break twice in the third set. I felt like I was tired almost going
into the match by playing so many matches. I really tried my hardest to pull that match
out, and I did. I almost felt like I left everything out there that night; didn't bring
anything today. 

Q. How much time do you take off now?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I'm not sure yet. Definitely a few days. All the way back to Miami
next weekend for Mary Joe's wedding. Then I'm going to see how I feel next weekend about
when I'm going to play again.

Q. What role will you play? Strictly a spectator?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It's my agent, who is one of my best friends, and one of my best
friends in tennis. I'm right in the middle there. It's going to be an awful lot of fun.
It's going to be hopefully be a really happy time back in Miami.

Q. Quite a bit was written about the fact that last week you won the tournament, you
got this lead over Martina in the finals you played, yet she was still No. 1. Here you
are, she wins the tournament, you're No. 1. I asked Martina if she thought it might be an
idea to go to the system the men have now. She thought it was fine the way it was. 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I mean, I think it's been pretty exciting the last few weeks with
the race between Martina and I at No. 1. Unfortunately you're not going to get that with
the men's tour anymore. The Women's Tour, I like the ranking system right now. I kind it
hard to follow the men's. Lleyton Hewitt is 3 in the world, but seeded 15 here. I think
that's -- I don't think that's the way to go. I think ours has been a great story line
about me trying to get to No. 1, now I have No. 1, now Martina is going to try to get it
back. We go on from there. I think it's been a good story. 

Q. No doubt you'll play France. Are you considering some other European tournaments?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I'm going to start in Rome. I'm supposed to play Amelia Island,
Hilton Head. I've never been to Rome, so I'm going to give that a shot. I'll decide the
week before the French either to play in Madrid or take the week off, then Paris. 

Q. You're not boycotting South Carolina?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT