TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 30, 2000
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







WTA: Questions.

Q. As soon as you get to No. 1, you leave us waiting. 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I wasn't feeling too great. Give me a few minutes (laughter).

Q. Were you expecting that kind of struggle after 6-1?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Up a set and 2-Love, it's something that you don't want to go
through. You know, I let her back in the match early in the second set, giving up my serve
after I was up 40-Love. From there she seemed to play a lot better and I seemed to go down
a level. It was a tough match. It's one of those where you look back and you're so happy
you were able to grind it out. I was able to come back. But I've got to remember that I
was up and not let that happen again if that comes again on Saturday.

Q. Feel good to be back at the top?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It feels tiring right now. You know, I haven't had a long match in
quite a while, especially at 12 a.m., i'm not used to that. It's great. You know, I knew
going into this match that that would happen if I won, so it was an added bonus to achieve
that goal and also get to the finals here. But, you know, to me, I've always said this all
along, it would mean more to me to win this tournament than to be No. 1.

Q. Because you've never won it before?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Never won it before, one of the few hard court tournaments I haven't
won. You don't want to leave a tournament losing. I have a very good record once I get to
finals. I'll try to keep that going.

Q. You say you knew about it, it was an added thing. Did you feel pressure because of
it once things started to click a little in the second?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It's weird because, you know, I've had this before in Germany, a few
years ago maybe when I was becoming No. 1. It wasn't something that made me play worse,
but it was -- it was in my mind obviously. I think it actually maybe helped me in the
third. I think in the third set tiebreaker I was more calm than the second set tiebreak.
It was on my mind, so I don't know, maybe it made me miss a few. I don't know.

Q. You reacted at the end very excitedly, almost as if you had won a Slam. Was it
because of relief?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: You know, I think it was both. I think it was relief that I pulled
that match out in the end, after having a lot of chances, after coming back. I think it
was elation that I was back to No. 1. It's much more exhilarating to win 7-6 in the third
and get there than to win 0-0 and get there.

Q. Speaking of which, how surprised were you by that result?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I had to turn it at about 8-0. It didn't look like it was so good
for Monica. I felt bad for her. Very surprised.

Q. Were you favoring your leg?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, my foot was starting to hurt me about 4-3, 4-All in the third,
right on top of my left foot. I don't know what it is yet. It's kind of hard to tell right
after a match. I'm going to do some tests in the morning and see what happened. I'm hoping
it was just bruised maybe from a long night. I'm not sure now though.

Q. This is not something you've had before?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No, no, I haven't had it before.

Q. Left?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Left, yeah, on the top. 

Q. You and Martina again. Reminds me of a rivalry from the past. You've played her in
11 straight finals. Do you feel like it's comparable to Chrissy and Martina at all?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, they played like I think 80 or 90 times. I'm not exactly sure
how many times. We've only played in our career I think about 20 times. It's always
exciting because we're only going to meet in the finals when we're ranked 1 and 2. We've
both been getting there every tournament, except when Martina lost in Sydney. That was a
little bit shocking. You always get a different kind of excitement when you play somebody
in the finals. There's a different atmosphere in the stadium, a different nervousness that
goes through you. We both probably play well in finals. Myself, I've played very well the
last few times I've played her. You get excited to go out and have an opportunity to win a
tournament. I'm looking forward to it again.

Q. Pete always said when he's going to play Andre in the final, especially a Slam, he
wakes up and knows it, feels it throughout the day. Is it different preparation for you? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It's definitely more excitement. You know if you win that, you can't
get a better feeling than beating Martina or the No. 1 player, whatever she is at that
time. Also knowing that it's going to be a tough match, you're going to have to play well
to win. There's a certain amount of respect that even if you lose, you know she's going to
have to play well to win it and there's no shame in losing to her. You've got positives on
both sides. It definitely feels different, I think. 

Q. Why have you dominated against her recently, do you think?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think the last few times, you know, I'm able to overpower her. I
think last week it got to the point in Indian Wells where even though she was up, once I
got the break back, she kind of folded in a way. I don't know. She just doesn't like to
play me. I don't know why. I just frustrate her, I guess. You'd have to ask her, I guess.

Q. How would you compare the conditions of play here with Indian Wells?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It's a lot different. Indian Wells is really light air in the
desert. The balls go through the air a lot faster. Here the humidity slows it down a lot.
Just a lot more windy here, although it wasn't tonight. I think those conditions favor her
more than myself. Indian Wells was ideal, and Australia was ideal for myself. Here, the
ball will definitely travel slower.

Q. Lleyton Hewitt was saying he's so confident right now when he steps on the court. Do
you feel that way? Will you feel that way Saturday?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah. I mean, I've won a lot of matches in a row now, have only lost
once in a very long time. I feel like when I go out there, you know, someone's going to
have to do something extraordinary to beat me. At the same time, going out against
Martina, I know I'm going to have to do something extraordinary to win also. Hopefully on
Saturday, thank God I have tomorrow off to rest and heal, a late final on Saturday,
hopefully I'll be a hundred percent by then, feel ready to go after another title.

Q. Why do you think Sandrine is lacking to be a Top 10 player? Do you think she has a
chance to be No. 1?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It's funny, every time she plays me, we have great, long matches.
Sometimes I see results, and I wish I knew why (laughter). I think I've got to watch her
play more often. I don't know. I've never seen her play and lose to somebody that she
probably shouldn't lose to. I know she has some of those losses sometimes. But I think
maybe against me or the top players, she plays well against. But it's getting there that
she has a hard time with. 

Q. You played her last time 16 months ago. Do you think she has improved a lot since
that time or not?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Has it been that long? 

Q. It was The Chase in '98. 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think I've improved a lot since then. It was another close match.
She was right there with me the whole time and easily could have won that match. I think
so. I mean, she always serves very well against me. It's difficult to get back. She's got
a great backhand. I think her level of play has definitely risen, but I think the level of
all the players has, as well.

Q. Do you feel like you and Martina are starting to pull away from the pack with the
Williamses not concentrating on their tennis?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Pretty much. We're pretty far ahead of everybody in terms of ranking
points, in terms of titles over the last ten months or whatever. As of now, yeah. You
never know when things change and a player becomes hot, like Serena did last year. You
never know. For right now, I think Martina and I are heads and shoulders above the rest. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT