TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 28, 2000
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 WTA: Questions for Lindsay.  
 
Q. Toes butting up against the shoes a bit?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I've lost both toenails in the process of three tournaments. I just
didn't take it off yet, sorry (laughter).  
 
Q. Maybe you need bigger shoes. 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I don't know what it is. On the hard courts, I think in so many
matches, it's just wearing on my feet. 
 
Q. Pushing up against the top?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, like if I step into a backhand or run for a ball and stop
suddenly. 
 
Q. Did you know your opponent today?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I knew who she was. I'd never seen her play before. I had heard that
she likes to hit the ball hard, has a pretty good serve. That's all I knew really. But
going out, you know, I really like that kind of match-up for myself. A lot of times girls
make a lot of errors, try and overhit. People that hit hard, I normally feel fairly
confident against. 
 
Q. She's very young. 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Is she?  
 
Q. 17. 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I didn't know that.  
 
Q. Her parents are both athletes, father a hammer thrower; mother won a bronze medal in
the Olympics, 400 meters. 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Very good athlete.  
 
Q. What can you tell about what she can do on the court?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, I think in today's game, it's always a real benefit if you can
hit the ball hard and serve well. So many girls today really don't take advantage of
serving and trying to hold serve. She was very aggressive and she served well. I think
that the more she plays, you hopefully get more consistent as you get older. You don't
make as many errors the more times you're out on Stadium Court or playing top players.
She's obviously a very good athlete. You know, just more experience will probably help
her. 
 
Q. What did you think of her movement?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It was okay. It wasn't terrific. I'm sure that's one of the things
she'll probably be working on. 
 
Q. Richard Williams said today that Venus is leaning toward retirement, that he is
encouraging her to go in that direction. What is your reaction to that?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, I don't take anything he says too seriously, so I wouldn't be
surprised if we saw her again playing tennis.  
 
Q. A year ago at this tournament, there was talk about a Williams family dynasty. What
has happened since then in your mind? Why has that not materialized?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, I think it's tough to compete week-in and week-out. I don't
know why they consistently haven't been performing. It seems like Venus was always the
more consistent performer, and then Serena kind of broke through and won the US Open, then
has really been struggling since then. You know, I don't know why. I couldn't tell you
actually. They just don't -- Serena has been having a very up-and-down year, losing to a
number of players that she probably would have felt confident beating last year. She's
probably just going through a period where she's lost a lot of confidence and needs to get
out there and play and win a lot of matches.  
 
Q. Maybe they underestimated the rest of the competition a little bit, too?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Maybe. I don't know.  
 
Q. They're obviously great athletes, both of them. There are a lot of great athletes on
the tour, maybe not many as great as they are. They've always taken pride in the fact
they've never really had a full-time professional coach. You kind of wonder how they would
have done if there was a well-experienced coach with them full-time taking them up one
more notch. 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think you're exactly right. I think the big thing in tennis is you
don't have to be the best athlete in the world to be able to win and play at this game.
You can tell by past champions, playyers that are doing well now. If you look at their
game, they could probably benefit with a lot of help, you know, strategies maybe, hitting
certain shots.  
 
Q. I think back to the French Open where Venus went on the court against a qualifier,
knowing nothing about her because no one bothered to scout her. She lost in three sets. 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It's tough. You always like to know a little bit about your opponent
before you play them. Also in your own game, if something is not going well, you need to
work on it and work on it until it gets better. It really helps to have somebody - I think
somebody that played the game and knows what it's like out there playing, instead of
people that have never experienced it and think they know it all. 
 
Q. You like to know something about your opponents. I suppose you know a lot of things
about Sandrine because you played her a lot of times. What are you expecting tomorrow? Do
you think she can do well in those kinds of conditions, that kind of surface?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: The last few times I've played her, we've had very difficult
matches. I think I lost, and then won a close three-setter. She plays well against me. I
know she won't be intimidated going out there. She's had a couple of great wins, pulled
through a really close match early in the tournament. Sometimes that really helps you get
going later in the tournament. You get more confidence. You know, she has a very good
serve when she's serving well. I've really got to concentrate on returning and breaking
her serve, you know, moving her around the court, just concentrating on my own game and do
what I do well, and see what she comes up with. 
 
Q. It's been well-documented what Robert has done for your game physically, your
fitness, tactics. What has he done for you cerebrally, sitting down and talking about
patterns to hit with, when to change direction on the ball, subtle things like that?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think the biggest thing he helped me with is, you know, strategy
plays a lot into it, but also just the emotions on the court. We spent a lot of time
dealing with, you know, what happens when it gets close or what happens when you're about
to win; what happens when you're up and you start to lose, how you can cope with all the
situations that happen. It happens to everyone in your career, all those types of
situations. He was very instrumental in talking about it with me and giving me ideas to do
if stuff like that happens. In times like that, also, strategy on the court. You know, go
for your most consistent shot; hit up the middle; make first serves, simple things like
that that I took a lot of -- well, I believe in them a lot and I took it on the court and
try to do what he says in those situations.  
 
Q. Serena said she might not play Hilton Head because of the South Carolina flag issue.
Is there any position the tour should take regarding that?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: You know, I don't know much about that situation. I saw a little
piece on it during SportsCenter, I read what Serena said. You know, it's a tough situation
for the tour to take. I'm sure that they probably won't take any action on it. I don't
know. I mean, Serena had a good point, that she didn't want to play and put down her race.
You have to respect that. I don't really know that much about it, though.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT