TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 26, 2000
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







WTA: Questions for Lindsay. 

Q. Great year, 19-1, 17 straight matches, 5 straight wins against Martina. You're known
for your modesty. When you're by yourself driving, are you saying to yourself, "I'm
the best player now"? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think so. I think I've known for like maybe over two years that I
was definitely one of the best players. The last few months I've been playing like the
best player. I've never felt it was something I needed to say out loud or needed to
reiterate to the public or to the other players; it's just something that I need to know.
I mean, I know with a great year like this, winning all those titles, you can't help but
know you're the one to beat.

Q. The other day Monica said in four or five years, you'd be the one who would emerge
from the group of young players that are on tour now. Yourself in five years or so, do you
think you'll be seen as the dominant player?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Five years from now? I don't think I'll be here (laughter). I don't
know. 

Q. Announcing your retirement?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Exactly. I've already played for eight years. It's been a long time.
I enjoy it now more than ever, which has helped a lot. Five years is a long time down the
road. I'm not sure if I can go that far yet.

Q. Are you feeling you're playing as good as ever at this point?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think so. Even today, I don't think I played the best much ever,
but I just seem to be concentrating so much harder, staying in games where I've been down
game points, just find a way to win. Especially these days, I'm winning a lot of matches
easily, which helps a lot towards the end of a tournament. I just think the consistency
level, intensity is there now day in and day out, where before I would have some lapses in
concentration, go in and out of matches. 

Q. If I have it right, you've handled Elena easily a number of times. How do you
prepare for a match against an opponent where you've had great success?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I always have the mindset before a match - before every match I get
nervous, think it's going to be tough. You can't underestimate anybody. I know in the back
of my mind that she's probably more nervous than I am. The last two times I played her,
it's been relatively easy. She's probably a little bit intimidated going out there. At the
same time, the more you get to play top players, the more you might play better and better
against them. I'm going to go out there the same way I've played her before: being
aggressive, trying to pick on her backhand, being inside the court, all of that stuff. If
it's not going so well after a few games, I'll see what happens.

Q. Monica often talks of memories of her dad taking her out in the parking lot when she
was a little kid, hitting the ball with her. Do you have any fond memories with your dad
when you were younger, either on court or off?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Definitely not on court. Neither one of my parents ever did anything
with me on the court. On the court, no. Off the court, I mean, I have a lot of fond
memories. Everyone says I grew up in a normal family. I have two older sisters. We used to
do everything with our parents on the weekend, go swimming, go to the grocery store, do
all that kind of stuff. 

Q. Volleyball?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I went to so many games, had to watch my dad referee in so many
different games. Both of my sisters played. The youngest child is kind of the one that has
to go everywhere. That was me.

Q. Did you ever think your dad blew a call and you said, "Oh, no"? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I didn't know that much. I didn't know that much about the calls he
was making, but I always felt bad when they'd yell at him.

Q. Do you think you could have been a great volleyball player?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Maybe. I don't know. I don't jump so well. Maybe if I had worked on
some things. I definitely have the height. I'm glad I chose tennis.

Q. Serena, whose coach is obviously her dead, was talking about what it would be like
if her dad wasn't involved in her as coach. Could you imagine having a dad who was
involved, in your face?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I can't imagine it. Even if it wasn't a parent, I don't really like
that type of personality anyway, somebody talking about me. I prefer to speak for myself
and handle my battles on my own. I prefer to motivate myself, prefer to do all that stuff
alone. I've always done it that way. It's hard to see the other side when you don't really
understand it. I don't really know. 

Q. Do you even talk tennis with your dad? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No, with no one in my family. 

Q. We're here in Florida where there's a tremendous tradition of women's players,
Williams, Seles, Graf had a place, Hingis has a place, Evert. There's a strong tradition
in California, too. Do you ever think, "I wish I were a Florida girl"? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Oh, no. This isn't one of my favorite states, let's say. I like it
in California.

Q. Would you like the Fed Cup to be played at Palisades?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Of course. I have a tremendous club and a tremendous following. They
put on an incredible Davis Cup about two years ago. Very excited for the Fed Cup. It's one
of the few places you can play in the United States outdoors in November, and I can be
home for Thanksgiving. Why wouldn't I? 

Q. Billie said she always likes to consult with the players. Do you think she'll ask
you?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I don't think she needs to ask me. She'll have to ask the other
players. She knows my answer to that. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT