TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 25, 2000
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 WTA: Questions for Lindsay.  
 
Q. You're ruling the tour like a queen. What's the deal? Why are you beating everybody?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, I don't know. Ever since I came back in about November from
the wrist injury, I just seem to just play really well on the court, kept my focus well,
and done everything that I need to do to win matches and win a lot of them easily. I think
that's helped me in the latter rounds of tournament. When you can get the first few under
your belt pretty easily, you have a lot more energy at the end of a tournament. You get
confidence, it keeps going, kind of a snowball effect. 
 
Q. Martina said she thought your focus was good. Everybody else is fluttering around,
coming and going. 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think both Martina and I are -- if you look at the last few
months, we're the only two that have been in there week-in and week-out, concentrating,
trying to win titles. You have to take advantage of opportunities like this when maybe
other players aren't playing their best, aren't interested or whatever. Martina and I
really seem to have stepped up and take it. 
 
Q. If you thought of all the Grand Slams, do you have a particular city that you really
enjoy spending time in?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Just in Grand Slams?  
 
Q. Yes. 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Probably New York actually. I like the city there a lot. I've got a
lot of friends there. I always seem to have a good time. In terms of playing, it's a
little difficult with the US Open site a little far away. I've always seemed to enjoy
myself there. 
 
Q. Have you ever thought of getting another home in another city?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I thought about it for a little bit. You know, I love going
back to where I'm from. Probably wouldn't make sense to put money down permanently when I
wouldn't be there but more than a few weeks a year. 
 
Q. You used to have a place on Key Biscayne or do you still?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I had a place here about five or six years ago. I only had it for a
year. 
 
Q. Owned or rented?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I rented. I was here very infrequently so I decided that's why.  
 
Q. Your love for the clay in Paris is well-known. Is your preparation going to be
different going?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No. In the last three years, I've lost to the winner each year. I've
done well there, played well there. For me spending more time in Europe would probably
have a worse effect than getting there when I do, maybe a week or two early. By the time
the French comes around, if you're there a month early practicing, mentally I don't think
I would be ready to win a title when I got to Paris. I'm going to play this tournament and
then I'm not sure what I'm going to do. Right now I'm feeling like this might be the last
week for a number of weeks for me. I'm going to see how it goes and start on the clay
whenever I feel like I need to get back out there. 
 
Q. Forgive me for not remembering. Did you not play a clay tournament last year?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Last year I played the week before in Madrid. I won Madrid, lost in
the quarters to Steffi. The year before I lost in the semis to Arantxa. I've never been
over there more than a week or two early. 
 
Q. You see Anna Kournikova in investment firm ads on TV. Do you find it remarkable how
much money is available for endorsements for top tennis players now off court than, say,
five or six years ago?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, I don't really know what was out there five or ten years ago.
In comparison, obviously the market has gotten a lot higher anyway, so players are going
to earn more off the court. Especially with women's tennis and women athletes in general,
there's a bigger marketplace out there for us in advertisements or whatever it might be. I
think it's great. It's a great time to be involved in the sport, kind of the women's
movement of athletics.  
 
Q. Women's tennis has been described as great tennis and great theater. Do you think
that's an accurate description?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I actually do. I think women's tennis the last year and a half or
two years has gotten a lot more entertaining with some of the players we have on tour. We
have a nice mix of players that are different styles, different attitudes. I think it
brings in a lot more fans. 
 
Q. Do you think the tennis or the theater is the more compelling part of it?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Hopefully the tennis (laughter). I think the level of tennis has
been pretty high over the last year or two. I think it's going to get better.  
 
Q. Do you think the popularity comes more from the tennis or the personalities?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think it's very important to have personalities that bring people
into the sport. Maybe the men are playing the best tennis ever, but they really only have
Pete and Andre drawing people. I think we have, like I said, such a great mix of players
from Martina and even last year we had Steffi, we still have Monica, the Williams sisters,
Anna. It's just a number of players and a lot more kids and adults can relate to more
their type of personality now because there are so many. 
 
Q. Are you ever surprised at the tremendous amount of interest in the off-court lives
of some of the top players?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No. Like I said before, the market has changed a lot. There's a lot
more space for it. I think people are embracing women in role model scenarios and
situations. You know, there's been a huge turnaround for women in these kinds of jobs. 
 
Q. Is there ever a downside to that scrutiny?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It takes a lot of time. It's not necessarily the best thing for your
tennis. It's a very tough thing to balance. You've got to be really careful and decide
what your priorities are. 
 
Q. It seems like you're heading toward No. 1 again. Do you think based on your play at
the end of last year and so far this year that that will happen again? If it does, what
will you do differently or will you do anything differently to stay up there?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, it may happen; it may not. I'm not really sure how Martina is
going to do over the next few weeks. It certainly appears that I will become No. 1 again
in terms of my results last year, replacing those with better results this year. Doing
anything differently, not really. I mean, Martina , it's very hard when you get on top of
her. She is consistently always getting to the finals and winning tournaments. She never
has early exits. That's really tough to combat. I've done my best to do the same and be
consistently good, but being at No. 1, you've got to do the same thing as you are when
you're ranked lower: try to win tournaments all the time. Sometimes it gets tough to do
that. 
 
Q. Pete would say, "I'd rather win a Slam or two Slams than be No. 1." Does
it matter to you to be No. 1?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No doubt. I'd much rather have won the Australian Open than become
No. 1 this week or whenever. In my mind, it's much more important. Even last week, winning
Indian Wells was such a huge thrill. I could have cared less that I was staying at No. 2. 
 
Q. How old were you when you moved out of your parents' house?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: 18 and 22 (laughter). No, 18. I moved back in with my mom two and a
half years later and moved out a few months ago. 
 
Q. Moving out and away from them, did that have any impact on your tennis in terms of
becoming more independent and taking more control?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I've always been pretty independent with my tennis. I think moving
out, I had the typical year or so of screwing around like most people would do when they
went off to college. My tennis probably suffered a little with it that year. I think I
fell from 7 to 12 or something like that. As a person, I think it helped me a lot. Looking
back now, I think it's a great thing that I did that.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT