TMS - INDIAN WELLS, WOMEN
March 18, 2000
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







WTA: Questions, please. 

Q. You're 8-2 against her in the last ten matches. Explain that kind of dominance.

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It's definitely very tough to do. I think it's gotten to the point
where obviously she doesn't like to play me. She said that in Australia. Like I said, the
only way to beat Martina, I think, is to overpower her. I'm able to do that. I think, like
I said, with a record like that, she probably gets a little frustrated playing me a little
easier than she might somebody else. I've played really well against her. I mean, she
definitely brings out the best in me. I get very fired up every time I play her. It's
exciting, we've been playing so many times, it's only in the finals now. You get up for
those. You get really excited. I think that has something to do with it. Might be
different if we played maybe in the second or third or quarterfinal round.

Q. You didn't look that fired up in the first set. What changed in you?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, I just think she was -- I mean, I kind of figured everyone was
going to say I didn't play that well. Her balls were landing very deep, a little bit
higher. She's never done that against me before. The depth of her ball really forced me to
go for more and make some errors. I mean, I thought it was a little bit of both, but more
maybe her good play. 4-3 down, I figured I was going to have to start going for it even
more, just trying to get on my toes, bounce around and see what I can do. I hit a couple
of good shots to break. All of a sudden the match turned with that one break. I actually
think the game 4-All to hold my serve, then after I broke, was a huge game. After that, I
think the momentum just carried me along. She was pretty discouraged with what had
happened. 

Q. This was almost like a hometown match for you. Do you think you were a little
nervous when you came out?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, not nervous because of that. I think it was a final. Like I
said, she didn't give me many free points in the first set and a half. I thought I had to
do so much to win points. You know, you start off different matches different ways. In
Australia I started off great. Here I started off a little flat, a little slow. Who knows
why this happens. But I was able to turn it around, and then she started giving me a few
easier points there in the third. 

Q. Did you ever think that the match was out of reach for you after the first set?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No. I mean, obviously you know it's a long way to come, down a set
and 2-4. It was only one break. I'd only been broken twice to that point. I just hadn't
been returning well. Every time she was serving, I was missing about two returns, maybe
three, kind of giving her her service games. I knew I needed to stop that and start
playing the points a little bit better. That was a big thing, I thought: get some returns
in play, start the rally off. Like I said, once I got that one break back to get even, I
really felt a lot better and started moving around a little bit better, you know, trying
to get the adrenaline flowing. 

Q. Pete Sampras said the other day, despite what ends up happening at a tournament,
when he shows up, he feels he's the player to beat. Do you feel at this point that's who
you are?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, yeah. I think my record says that. I think with Martina and
myself, Martina doesn't lose very often either. I think we both have pretty great records
the last few months. For sure, I mean, yeah, I think people think it's tough to beat me. I
mean, I have to put Martina in that same category as myself. 

Q. You have a mental edge over her after having won so many matches. Do you think that
comes into play at a situation like 4-2?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It appears that way (laughter). I don't know how she thinks about
playing me. She said some things in Australia. She got quite frustrated as soon as it got
back to 4-All. How I'm looking at it, it looks like she doesn't enjoy playing me. 

Q. Quite an astonishing comeback, you hadn't even had a breakpoint until you got one. 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Like I said, I just was giving her her service games really easily,
missing a lot of returns, not necessarily unplayable serves, just not threatening her on
her serve at all. She didn't give me a lot of second serves actually the whole match. Like
I said, at 4-3, I was able to get a few more in play, play a little bit more aggressive,
and that was just the whole turning point. 

Q. Did she do anything different with her service game those first few service games?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I just swear, I thought I was just missing them because she wasn't
serving them all that hard. They were going I think in the high 80s. I'm not exactly sure.
I was just missing them. She was mixing it up pretty well, but I was just a little flat
returning, I thought.

Q. Three years ago or so, could you have imagined yourself dominating her?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I don't think about it in those terms. I didn't think about it three
years ago. It's tough. She's obviously been the greatest player the last few years, been
No. 1 most of the time. It's great. I don't think - at least I don't - about my domination
against other players or my record against other players. It's a tough thing to do.
Obviously, no one else can do it. I've got to be proud of that.

Q. You mentioned on the court what Robert had said to you. Was that this morning?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah. It was a little bit in the doubles yesterday. My partner and I
were down a set. They were serving for the match. We were down I think 5-2 in the breaker.
We came back and won the third 6-1. All he really said was, "You know, sometimes
you've just got to hang in there until you can turn the corner. Maybe she won't give you
the opportunity to turn the corner if she's ahead. If she is, just hang with her, hang
with her." It's exactly what happened today. I just kind of hung with her until I was
able to just barely get on top of her. She kind of folded in a way. Winning I guess ten
straight games is pretty hard to do.

Q. Although you're the best player in the world at the moment, playing on clay seems to
be your least favorite surface. Anything special you're looking at doing to improve that,
get a chance at the French?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No. I mean, I'm not going to be a clay court player just with the
style of my game. If I'm playing well, I'm going to do well on clay. I've won a few clay
titles. I really think spending months on clay is not going to help me win Wimbledon
again, the US Open, win a lot of other tournaments. I'm pretty good on clay, but I don't
look forward to the clay court season (laughter). I don't like spending hours on it like I
do a hard court or a different court. That's my attitude. You know, people are telling me
I need to start hitting on clay like tomorrow. I just have the attitude, I'm going to go
for it at the French, I'm going to have a great time. We'll see what happens. 

Q. Would it be the ultimate for you to beat her in the final at the French?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It's pretty funny, because I can't -- I'm pretty sure I've never
played Martina on clay. I think that's probably her best surface. She grew up on clay. If
I beat her on clay in any city, it would be pretty great (laughter). To beat her in Paris,
it's tough. She'll be pretty fired up. She also has the opportunity to win her fourth and
complete the Grand Slam there, not in the calendar year. Same as me. I'm sure she'll be
looking forward to doing that as well.

Q. You did play her in Paris once. 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I do remember that. I did beat her in Paris, Centre Court
(laughter). But she was like 15. That was like so long ago (laughter). That's right. 

Q. You are both the most consistent players on the tour. What gives you the edge,
putting it down to one thing?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I've had a mental problem playing one player, Conchita Martinez, for
a number of years. It's tough when you've lost a lot of matches to one player. It's tough
to figure out what you need to do differently. The other person has a lot of confidence
going up against that person. A great record against her gives me a lot of confidence when
I go to play her. I know I have the style of game that gives her trouble. She knows that.
That's what it comes down to. Like I've said, I'm sure she will beat me again in my
career. I'm sure she'll play well against me. But right now, I just seem to be on a roll
when I play her. You know, obviously I've been giving her a lot of problems.

Q. In large part, the story of Wimbledon over a good number of years has been a few
dominant players just having real dominance. How important is it in your own mind to
repeat there? Would you like to have a real dominance at Wimbledon over the coming years?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, I'd obviously love to. I'm not going to turn it down. Grass is
tough. It's a funny surface. It's tough to come back on grass maybe like a match like
today. You don't get a lot of opportunities. It was a helluva pleasure to win at
Wimbledon, a great, great feat in my own mind to be able to pull it out there. I've looked
forward to going back there since I won it. It's a different feeling once you're the
Wimbledon Champion, at that club. If I have dominance, I don't know. I'd like to win it
again in my career. I'm going to try my hardest. I have number of years to try that.

Q. Is Martina less resilient than she was previously?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I don't know. She just doesn't like playing me. I mean, I think she
plays the same. I don't think when she plays me she plays worse than she does against Mary
or one of the Williamses. I don't know. I mean, like I said, sometimes it's tough mentally
to go out against a certain player that you know plays well against you. I mean, she was
doing great there for a set and a half. I was able to get the break, kind of destroy her
confidence, I guess. 

Q. You kind of felt about grass like you do about clay for a while. You were able to
turn that around. 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, it's true. I just think growing up in California, not spending
time on other surfaces, kind of takes its toll the first few years in the pros where you
always switch surfaces. Grass, yeah, I did turn the corner. It helped a lot practicing a
little bit more on it. But also it's a quick surface. That's going to help my serve, my
groundstrokes. Clay has the opposite effect: it kind of slows everything down, deadens the
pace of the ball. That's going to be the problem. The serves don't take off, your
groundstrokes don't go through the court as much. It gives players better opportunity to
get to them. But I'm going to play the same way. I'm not going to start hitting tons of
topspin, hitting kick serves for first serves, running around trying to get every ball
back. I'm going to play aggressive, kind of like the year Mary got to the finals of the
French Open. She just went for every ball, attacked. I think that's my best shot at
winning Roland Garros.

Q. You mentioned doubles earlier. Why do you and all the top women play so much
doubles?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, I think it's a lot of fun to go out there and play doubles. I
think in the earlier rounds of a tournament, you like to get out on the court instead of a
practice situation, work on certain parts of your game. The men have it tough at Grand
Slams. If we had to play three-out-of-five, I wouldn't play doubles at Grand Slams. It
doesn't ever seem to affect me. It doesn't hurt me ever. I've always stuck with the
routine of trying to play doubles.

Q. Why would you guess the men don't play?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I don't know why they don't play week-to-week. Well, I mean, Pete
has played tennis now professionally for maybe 12 years. I think once you play a number of
years, you stop wanting to play matches all the time. I'm sure I'll get to that point in
my career, as well. As far as the other guys, I really don't know. Kafelnikov does, but
he's really the only guy. I have no idea. 

Q. What advice would you give young girls in the Juniors that want to turn pro?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It obviously seems to be a trend lately where if someone wins a
12-and-under tournament, they turn pro, they think they're so good (laughter). It's quite
remarkable, even players I've had experience with. I was always under the impression you
should win the 14s, the 16s, 18s, Junior French, Junior US Open, all those, before you
would even think about it. Now it just seems, like I said, you get 13- or 14-year-olds
that are out of school, not playing any tournaments anymore because they're just getting
ready for the pros. I think that's a very poor approach, the wrong way to do it. The most
important thing is to play Juniors, learn to win, learn to lose, learn to communicate with
other players your age, learn to get along, and see what happens. Not everyone is going to
make it. I think probably only 98, 99 percent of people that play junior tennis, and
tennis in general, are ever going to make it (sic). It seems to be a lot of pressure to do
it so young.

Q. Don't you think it's more mental than anything at that level?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It can be. It can be just lack of skill, too. I've seen some girls
turn pro, "Oh, my God, I don't think they'd win college matches." It's a lot of
both. You've got to win before you can think about going pro. You have to win at the
higher levels than just the 14s or, like I said, the 12s. 

Q. We're always looking for rivalries. We're seeing one continue to develop. Can you
see any similarities between your rivalry with Hingis as Chris Evert and Martina?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I kind of got into tennis more towards the end of that rivalry, more
like the late '80s. I don't know exactly all the ins-and-outs of that relationship. I
think whenever you get two players that have clearly established themselves above the rest
of the pack, like Martina and I have, being 1 and 2, really being the ones that are the
most consistent performers, you're going to get comparisons. We don't play as different
style of games as Chrissy and Martina did. In that term, it's a little different. But,
yeah, we're 1 and 2, we've been 1 and 2 for two and a half years, three years. Hopefully
it develops to where we play 20 or 30 more times in our career.

Q. I had a question about rivalries. Do you think your series with Martina can still be
regarded as a rivalry, as strongly as you're dominating it?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think that's up to you guys. Right now I'm dominating it. It might
change again. Like I said, we're always meeting in the finals. That's the exciting part of
the rivalry. Hopefully, like I said, we'll play many, many more times. I think in Chris
and Martina, for a while, it might have been a little lopsided. It just caught back up
because they played a number of times. 

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT