TMS - INDIAN WELLS, WOMEN
March 16, 2000
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 WTA: Questions for Lindsay.  
 
Q. Starting to feel like the unstoppable one?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I don't know. I mean, it's been a lot of matches now in a row, a lot
of matches that I've played that I've maybe only lost once or twice, I'm not sure. It's
tough. I mean, you have to keep getting up for matches. Sometimes, you know, it's very
difficult to play a top player. Sometimes in the semifinals it can be a little difficult
to play somebody you don't know that well. You know, I think the occasion maybe slightly
overwhelmed her. I don't think she played that well; made a lot of errors. But I've just
been playing really solid, like I've done every match, gotten out of there really fast,
been concentrated, done what I've needed to do on the court to win the match easily. 
 
Q. The prevailing opinion is, despite what the rankings say, you're the dominant player
on the tour right now. Even Martina said it in Australia, you're too tough for her. What
are your feelings on that?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I definitely think I've been the No. 1 player since October or
November, maybe even the summer. Like I've said before, it's 12 months. Last spring, I
didn't perform like the No. 1 player in the world, and that's why I'm not No. 1 right now.
If I play well the next few months, I think I'll regain it. That's my belief. I'm sure I'm
closing the gap right now. I'm not going to worry about that too much. People can say they
think I'm should be No. 1, but as far as I'm concerned, I'm still No. 2, and just still
have to get there.  
 
Q. Somebody said while we were coming in that we like it when you play fast so we can
fill out the reports. I think you covered a lot of ground in this match. It must be you
improved your speed. 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think so. Obviously it's never going to be a strong point of mine,
like Arantxa or Amanda Coetzer, but I don't think it's a liability anymore. I think I get
actually to a lot of balls and get them back into play and make the girls hit an extra
shot. It's been a huge stepping stone in my career, as well, just getting more balls back,
anticipating a little bit better. It's important to make your opponents feel pressure from
my groundstrokes, but also that I can run a few balls down. 
 
Q. How do you think she played compared to the September match?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I swear, I think the same. I think both times I've played her, it's
been a really nervous match for her. At Fed Cup, we played the opening round match for the
finals of Fed Cup. She was a little overwhelmed again. It was 4-0. Here I think the same
thing. It was another big match for her. She just doesn't have that experience yet. 
 
Q. Have you seen her in other matches when she's not possibly so over-awed?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No. But she must be better (laughter).  
 
Q. Can you remember being like that?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Oh, sure, yeah. It's extremely nerve-wracking. I'm sure this was her
first semifinal of a big tournament. It happens. That's the way I was. I mean, I got
better the more times I got in that situation in my career.  
 
Q. Did you ever feel bad beating up on somebody like that?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No (laughter). I wanted to get off there.  
 
Q. Mary, you beat her pretty badly. What's your view on why?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Who?  
 
Q. Dementieva. 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I thought you called me Mary.  
 
Q. I'm sorry. I meant Lindsay. Why did you beat her so badly?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, I think it was 2-All in the first set, and I started feeling a
little bit more comfortable out there. I started trying to get the balls a little deeper.
She always seemed to be rushing her shots a little bit, going for too much too soon, gave
me a lot of points on some errors. I felt if I could get the ball deep or hard in the
first couple shots, I would have an advantage in the rally.  
 
Q. May I ask, what is your bread and butter shot?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, I think I've been holding my serve pretty easily this
tournament, have been working on that a lot. Definitely my groundstrokes. 
 
Q. Which one, forehand or backhand?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Equally the same. 
 
Q. Looking ahead to the final, your thoughts on playing either Martina or Mary, or
should we call you Mary (laughter)? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, it's always exciting to play Martina. We've played a lot in
the last few years, No. 1, No. 2. That always seems to get a big buzz around in terms of
fans and media. So that's always fun. I've always actually kind of cheered for her to get
to the finals after I'm there or before I'm there. But Mary is obviously playing well. I
didn't see a point of her playing Serena. She must have played extraordinarily well to win
like that. Mary is obviously someone who plays the way I do, attacks a lot, hits the ball
hard. Martina is someone you need to attack and you have maybe a better opportunity. But
it seems to me Martina has been so consistent and solid, beat Mary fairly comfortably last
week in Scottsdale. You know, unless Mary plays really great, I think Martina's playing
too well right now. 
 
Q. When you're so much in control of a match out there, does it become in a way like a
practice session?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No, because it was a semifinal. I'm thinking about going ahead to
the final. I'm also thinking about trying to win matches as quickly as you can. You don't
want to stay out there in long matches. You might try and work on some new things, but
tonight is a tough match because she was making errors. She hits the ball hard, so if they
go in, it's not like you can just come to the net or anything like that. Really I've just
tried to win my matches as quick as possible. 
 
Q. How well does Hingis have to serve against you to beat you?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, that's been a huge thing the last four times we've played.
It's been really funny, she hasn't gone for her first serve. It's given me an opportunity
on the first ball to go for it. Her second serve is obviously a major factor that I've
been able to overpower her, set the rally up with that. So I think, you know, it's tough
if she goes for a serve and misses it, she's giving me a second serve. But I think she
probably needs to serve better than she has the past few matches against me. 
 
Q. How come you're No. 2 and she's No. 1 and you've beaten her badly?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Because it's a 12-month race and Martina's done better than I have
for 12 months, and I've been catching her. It's just the ranking system. 
 
Q. I would rate you today 1. 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: On the computer I'm 2. Hopefully in the next few weeks, maybe I'll
gain some points and overtake her. 
 
Q. How do you feel, 1 or 2?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I feel like I'm No. 2. It's kind of fun being the underdog a little
bit. Martina is No. 1. If I get back to No. 1, I do. I've been playing great tennis now
for many months. I don't care if the computer says I'm 4, 3, 1, 5. It doesn't matter. 
 
Q. Martina is shorter than you. 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: You think (laughter)?  
 
Q. She said, "I'm shorter than Lindsay and Mary." As you said, this court is
a slower surface, faster air. Can that be a factor in the match?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think the slower court probably helps mere a little bit more. It
takes a little bit of my pace off the ball and gives her some more time. In Australia, the
court was extremely fast. She didn't have a lot of time to set up for the ball. Martina's
very smart. She uses her height as best she can. She obviously knows how to combat power
by beating the Williams sisters, Mary and even myself before. I'm sure she'll try
something a little different this time. I'm going to do the same. I'm going to keep trying
to attack her if I play her and keep her on the run.  
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT