TMS - INDIAN WELLS, WOMEN
March 12, 2000
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. It's up to you now because Agassi is out.  
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I didn't see any of it. I just actually heard right now. They said,
"You better hurry and go to press before he goes in there." Let's hurry this up.
Just kidding. It's surprising. Seems the last two weeks he's not been as dominant as he's
been for the last year. I'm sure he'll rebound at some point.  
 
Q. Is there any stopping you?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I'm sure somewhere (laughter). I mean, it's hard. As Agassi has
shown, it's really hard to always maintain the level of focus and consistency and being so
intense in every match. It's tough to do. So far, I mean today, I played a really good
match, best -- well, I played well the first round, but much improvement from yesterday.
You hope to keep going, but inevitably. 
 
Q. (Inaudible) your reign. 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: My reign (laughter). You never know. It's going to be a tough match
tomorrow. Either playing Conchita Martinez or Dominique Van Roost. It's not getting
easier, that's for sure.  
 
Q. Do you ever think about that match you played against her at Manhattan Beach?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Conchita?  
 
Q. That one, too. 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Oh, Halard. No, I've played Julie, I swear, six times since August
maybe. I lost one the first time, but I've beaten her a number of times now in a row. You
think about it. I thought I didn't play well that day, she played pretty well. Then you
know that can happen going out on the court, that I have to play at a certain level to
win. Today and when I played her in Australia, I played very, very well, the right way.
That's all you can ask.  
 
Q. Conchita?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Difficult opponent for me my whole career. I don't have a winning
record against her. I beat her last year in a tough three-set match, the only time we
played. It's going to be a tough match, especially here. If it's during the day, it's
really hot. It's going to be probably a longer match than I've been having, for sure. She
gets a lot of balls back, mixes it up. I always have had a hard time with that, a lot of
topspin - a lot of slice. Hopefully I'm a more all-around player and complete player than
I was three or four years ago when I lost to her a number of times. It's a good challenge.
I like playing with someone I haven't played in a while, a tough opponent. 
 
Q. Shouldn't the thinner desert air give your returns and serves a little bit more zip
to put you into a better position?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah. I mean, the ball travels very quickly here. The court is a
little slow, so that definitely combats it a bit. But the same thing, I'm sure, Andre has
been experiencing is it does fly more. If you're off a little bit, the ball is going to
keep going out because it is lighter air. But if you're feeling good and the balls are
going in, my balls are going to be traveling a lot faster and hopefully giving opponents
less time and a lot of trouble. But you've got to control it a little bit better than in
normal conditions.  
 
Q. Considering Conchita, that might be her advantage because she does play in a sense
that way, slower, doesn't move well. May that be like a factor, something which can decide
a match even here?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: You know, like I said, the air is fast and the court is not so fast.
If I'm playing well, I'm hitting balls early, I'm hitting my winners, it's not going to
matter too much about the court. If I'm having a little bit of an off day, the slower
court will definitely give her an advantage. But a slower court will give me a little bit
of an advantage returning. It always gives the returner a little more time. If I serve
really well, if it's a fast or slow court, I think the girl might have problems if I'm
serving well and real hard. Hopefully it won't be too big of a deal. 
 
Q. I think the deciding match between her and Dokic, hitting well, but she lost. 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think Dokic still is a little bit inexperienced, maybe making too
many errors. I didn't see the match, but I could see Conchita a junior, not a junior but a
rookie, a hard time mixing it up. She did me for a couple of years (laughter). I can
sympathize with Jelena right now. If Dokic started missing a little bit, that's what would
happen.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT