TMS - INDIAN WELLS, WOMEN
March 12, 2000
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







WTA: Questions for Lindsay. 

Q. How do you think you played?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I played okay. The conditions were a lot different than last night.
I don't think I played as well as I did last night, but I played pretty solid to win 4 and
2. You've got to be happy every time you keep winning like this. But I think I can get
better. I think as the tournament goes on, I will hopefully. 

Q. Is this the best you've played over the last few weeks, months?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I've got on a couple of rolls. In '98 I won all those tournaments in
California on a roll, then the US Open. But I feel like I'm playing really well right now.
When you're real confident, you seem to play the more important points better because you
obviously believe that you can do it. You just have a lot of confidence in your shots. A
lot of the momentum carrries on match through match. But you never know when it can end.
You never know when a bad day hits, like it did Agassi last week. You've always got to be
prepared to, you know, fight it out if you have to. 

Q. Do you feel you have the edge now on everyone? You seem to have the edge on Martina.


LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I have pretty good confidence when I go out there that I can beat
everybody, and I should beat everybody I play against, but you never know. You're going to
have some losses throughout the year, maybe some you don't feel you should lose, and some
that the other person played better. Going into every tournament, I think I'm a favorite
to win the tournament. I think equally Martina is the favorite. Right now, we're pretty
close. We've both been such consistent performers now that it's really close. 

Q. You seem to get better and better, seem to be raising your game again another notch.


LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I have been. A lot of that is just consistent play. Like I
say, the confidence to go for certain shots, you know, knowing when to hit what shot.
Yeah, I mean, my game is just really consistent right now. I've been serving well, holding
my serve a lot. If those things are going well, then I'm very tough to beat. Like I said,
a lot of that is confidence coming from winning so many matches this year already and the
end of last year.

Q. Do you still think you can improve again?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, you always have to try to keep improving. Certain shots,
you've always got to try to keep them where they are and then try to get them better. I
mean, yeah, I can volley better. I've been working on my serve, and it seems to keep
getting better, so I'll try to keep doing those things.

Q. You're getting to a point where Graf and Seles used to be, beating players soundly
all the time. Do you ever think about that?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No, no. I mean, seems like they used to beat people like 1 and Love
all the time. Every time I go out there, I believe I should win, regardless of the score.
I don't try and look at that too much. But, you know, the last two years, most of the time
I've been a very consistent performer, winning all these matches. You know, I'm getting to
the stage now where I think I should, and I think I should win badly, and you want to. But
as far as comparisons to other players, I've never thought about that too much in my
career. 

Q. When did you hit that stage?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I don't know (laughter). It's funny to look back now as it's gone
by. I could never tell you when I turned the corner. I don't know. 

Q. Martina was saying this morning she thought that you guys have a good rivalry, that
playing against her, it's been cyclical, you've been up, she's been down, vice versa. It
seems like you've been getting on her really good as of late. You trounced her in
Australia. You might be distancing yourself from the entire field. Do you feel that way?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Not quite yet (laughter). I'm still 2 in the rankings. You know, my
play since November has been No. 1 in the world, but unfortunately it's 12 months, and
you've got to prove yourself over the whole 12 months. Got a few more months I need to do
that before I'm No. 1 again. The rivalry, it's great. We get along very well. We have a
friendly rivalry. We go out and we try our hardest. There was a stretch in the middle
where she beat me a number of times in a row, and now it's turned again. Believe me, she's
going to beat me again before my career's over. She's that good. I mean, it's going to
happen. I'm going to play the way that I've been playing the last few times against her,
which is going for my shots, making her feel really defensive, not that she can't handle
the power, that's what I try and do. That's what I'm going to play against her. One time,
I'm sure she'll come through. I don't know. 

Q. You completely remodeled yourself physically. Are there any sort of mental changes?
Obviously, you're on a confidence high from all the wins. Are there any specific mental
things you do now that you didn't do before?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, I think just winning more matches, you believe in yourself
more. Like I said, you believe in your shots more at the critical times. That's really
important. Just knowing that you can win matches whether you're down, even, or even up,
that's the most important thing sometimes. Like I said, I mean, the huge thing is
confidence and a lot of experience at winning. Winning tournaments helps when you get in
those situations again, you know what to do. Have I changed? No. I try to be more
positive, but I don't do anything off the court for me mentally. I just try and stay
positive as best I can, know that I can do it. 

Q. Would you like to see the Women's Tour go to where the guys are: having a straight
points race and no real ranking system?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I'm so confused by that, I swear. I'm looking in the paper, Agassi
won the Grand Slam, but he's not even 1 in the race. I like our system right now. It's
interesting to see how the men's plays out later in the year. It's still a little early to
tell exactly. You know, in the rankings, it is critical of what's happened over 12 months.
To say that in January Lleyton Hewitt is No. 1 in the world I think is a little deceiving
to the public. But it will be interesting to see it again in six months, then at the end
of the year, see how it works. But so far, I'm not a huge fan of it. I don't know in the
rankings - obviously you know them - but I think quality points and bonus points are a big
deal. I think if you beat the No. 1 player in the first round as opposed to beating the
No. 100 player, it's a huge deal. You should get bonus or quality points for that. The men
have taken that away. I don't like that. 

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT