TMS - INDIAN WELLS, WOMEN
March 11, 2000
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







WTA: Questions for Lindsay. 

Q. Nice day match. 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I know (laughter). I couldn't believe when I saw six
yesterday. It was hard waiting around for a long time. I mean, it felt like a Grand Slam
actually. It's one of those matches where you're just so late. But having to come back
tomorrow, I'm really glad it was quick. I'm still able to get out of here at a semi-decent
hour and get to relax before tomorrow.

Q. How long did you have to wait around?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I didn't come over here until just right as Martina was winning. I
wasn't here that long. Just waiting all day, not knowing how matches are going. 

Q. I can't recall, not that I go to every tournament, but do they usually start off --
I can't remember a men's qualifying before the women.

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Normally the main draws start at the same time. This is the only
tournament where we overlap with the quallies. I didn't care that the men were playing in
front of me. I just cared that I was so late.

Q. We have like two press conferences, Stevenson and Serena, then you won. It was so
fast. I know nothing about it. It was obviously dominant. They asked Serena, "Lindsay
stepped up." She said, "Yeah, obviously the whole family watched." What's
the element you stepped up the most?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think, first of all, consistent play. I think when you're a
hard-hitter, you're going to make a lot of errors. Myself learning the right times to make
them, not giving away free points, trying to win every point. For me, it took a long time.
Serena is only 18. She's got so many years to catch me, so many more opportunities to
catch me in that race. Just took me a lot of playing matches. Now I'm very comfortable in
this situation that I'm in, how to play good matches. I mean, there's no doubt Serena has
all the talent. It's just getting more consistent and more matches. She didn't play a lot
of matches her whole career, even in Juniors. It's just a matter of time.

Q. Were you that good tonight or was Spirlea --?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I played pretty well. You know, sometimes players don't play that
well. I thought tonight was more of a case of I just played really well. I hardly made any
errors, served well. That's always going to be good stats to have. 

Q. What did you think of the venue?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I like it. I like the center court a lot. I mean, obviously it's
very similar to the US Open. It's a nice court. It's not too big. I think tomorrow I'll be
playing in front of more people, and the weather will be a little warmer during the day.
This whole facility is great. You needed more courts to play this tournament with the men
and the women. I'm sure in a few more years, it will get, should I say, prettier with some
vegetation and some plants growing, some flowers.

Q. You built it, we saw the photo with you and Michael Chang. 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I can't believe how far it came. I didn't think it would be done in
12 months. It's amazing. They have some more things to improve on. They know that for next
year. They have so many great plans for the next five to ten years here.

Q. You sound stuffy. 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Really? I kind of had a cold. Night, too. 

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT