CHASE CHAMPIONSHIPS OF THE WTA TOUR
November 20, 1999
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. After the tiebreak, what happened?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I really think she was probably really disappointed not to win the
first set at 6-5. She had one set point, she was up 4-1, and I think she was more -- she
was a little bit down after winning the first set. And once I got the first break to go up
2-Love, then it was pretty much over, I think. 

Q. What do you think about playing Martina again, you just played her last week?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Last week when I beat Martina, I was I believe to overpower her. It
was a quick court and could really attack her serve, and I also served very well last
week. So, you know, going into tomorrow. I have a feeling she's going to try and be a lot
more aggressive than she was last week, really try to dictate the points a little more
than she was. And the same thing, I have to make a lot of high percentage of first serves
so she doesn't get a lot of second serves to look at and be the one on the offensive and
try to take that away from her.

Q. Did you see any of the first match or were you busy? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: You know, I would see a game and I would go and try and get warm and
see a game. I saw the end of the match. It looked like they were having really long
rallies when I was watching at the end of the second set. It just seemed like Martina was
a bit more consistent today and was able to keep more balls on the court than Venus. It
seemed like Venus made some crucial errors on a lot of points.

Q. Were you able to pick up anything from that?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It's really hard when you watch somebody play a different player.
Venus and I have different games. We both hit hard, but she likes to do different things
with the ball, so it's hard. It looks like Martina is obviously playing well. It's going
to be difficult. That's what I picked up. 

Q. (Inaudible)?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: She is a very consistent returner. You always think of like a Monica
Seles who takes -- returns very early and hits winners; Martina takes them and puts them
deep in the corner and it puts you on the defensive immediately. And she doesn't miss
many. Like I said, you have to try to win a few free points off the first serve to try to
get some points in the game; she's not just going to make a dumb error and give you
points, and it's really important to hold your serve against her, so you really feel
pressure when she's serving, yes.

Q. (Inaudible) When she threw her hand down, did you see that?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: You know, after that first game, I didn't lose too many more points,
I don't know how many -- two more points, I thought so. I think it's, you know, the
disappointment of losing the first set. No, I didn't know at 1-Love that it was going to
be that easy; I wish I had. It's just one of those things, as a player, you just have to
take, and I don't know what to say about it. 

Q. Is it a little bit inexcusable in a semifinal in the last major of the year?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It's hard to comment on. It has been an extremely long year for
everybody, and I'm not making excuses for anybody. But I don't know, she played a lot of
tournaments, I don't know. Ask her. I don't want to answer for her, (laughs).

Q. You have a big serve and Venus also serves big, is there a difference; is hers just
a flat serve and you put different spins?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think Venus definitely serves harder than I do. There's no
question about it. And for not -- I mean, I serve pretty hard for an average woman, but I
try -- (laughter) -- average tennis player, yeah. But I think just trying to -- I think I
really try and go for the placement a little bit more. Sometimes you'll see me hitting a
first serve at maybe 85, but with a lot of spin, to try and hit the corners and mix the
person up. That's a little bit like what Martina does. She doesn't have like a huge serve,
but she tries to place it a little bit better and that's what I try and do. I'm not sure
what Venus is trying to do. But if you can mix it, mix the person up and be able to hit
all the serves and keep the person guessing a lot, that's really more important, I think,
than whether it goes like 120 or 105 or something like that.

Q. Would you rather have had a bit of a tougher warm-up for tomorrow?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No. (Laughter) I think I've had my share of matches this week in
playing singles and doubles, and also playing last week in Philadelphia. Physically, I'd
rather be in better, be in good shape -- be rested and ready to go for tomorrow.

Q. Would you rather play Martina best-of-three or best-of-five?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Last year it was -- I won 6-4 in the third against Steffi in a long
match; had a really long doubles final on Saturday, and was just exhausted for the final
last year. This year, now when I'm fresh, it's two-out-of-three when I really could play
three-out-of-five. I think two-out-of-three is the right thing to do. I supported that
play change. We played all year two-out-of-three. It didn't necessarily make sense at one
tournament that we went to three-out-of-five. It's women's tennis and that's what we play
and that's what we're used to. 

Q. How did that change?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I didn't see anything. Someone came up to me at Lipton and said they
were thinking about it, and I think because of all the tennis last year. I don't know who
actually changed it. It wasn't the players. I think it was people maybe viewing it last
year or --I'm not exactly sure. 

Q. Was it a Tour decision?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think they recommended it to the players first, and the players
supported it, I think, but I'm not sure.

Q. You said you have to serve really well tomorrow. Is that something that you can make
happen tomorrow, you can just wake up and it works?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, some days. Yeah, I mean, some days, you know, you just play
great tennis and you don't know why. And some days, you might serve great or might hit
your forehand unbelievable. But there's some things I can do. Like I said, I don't have to
hit it 108 right up the tee. I can take some off and hit them at 95 or somewhere around
there and make them and put them in the corners and not give her a lot of second serves to
look at. And that's what I'm going to have to do it mix it up, mix up the speeds, mix up
the placements and not let her get a good read on it.

Q. At end of this tournament last year, is this pretty much where you wanted to be, at
this point, or can you believe that you're back to this point?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I can't believe I'm back to this point again, winning last week and
back to the finals again, giving myself another shot to win it third time in the finals.
Losing in four sets last year was a little bit disappointing, and to give myself another
chance to do it is great.

Q. Is the leg still okay?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No, it feels great. It feels a lot better. I taped it just for
precaution today. But, no, I haven't felt it yet.

Q. So you probably won't tape it tomorrow or you don't know?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: The trainers want me to, just in case something were to happen, it's
already taped. Yeah, I guess. Probably. 

Q. Did you know that Venus's back was bothering her?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No. 

Q. She never said anything?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No, I had no idea. 

Q. Do you still remember your first title?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah. 

Q. Where it was?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah. 

Q. In Switzerland?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, Lucerne. 

Q. Could you say what you have to do tomorrow against Martina, what will be the best to
win?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, a few things. First, I think she's going to try and be very
aggressive tomorrow. That's what I'm thinking, and try and move me around the court a lot.
So for me, I'd really like to be the one who takes advantage of the rallies first, maybe
attack and go for some second serves, keep her on the move and really concentrate on
holding my serve, making a lot of first serves and really putting pressure on her to hold
her serve with good returns and deep shots. But, like I said, the most important thing, I
think, is to hold my serve, and really be aggressive. 

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT