CHASE CHAMPIONSHIPS OF THE WTA TOUR
November 19, 1999
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How is your leg? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It was much better, thank you. No, it felt -- it felt almost 100%
tonight, and it was -- it just gave me no problems.  
 
Q. You had a brace on at the start and then you took it off?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Right. Well, the trainers told me -- I didn't want all the tape on
again and the trainers told me that -- the brace, to keep it on, keep it warm, and it was
just kind of bothering me. It was just kind of -- it didn't feel right. So I took it off
and, then I tried putting it back on, and then it didn't, so, I took it back off. No, it
feels fine. I don't think there should be any more problems, but, you never know. But it
wasn't a factor tonight. 
 
Q. Is the wrist totally fine, too?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah. I'm like the wounded the last two weeks. But yeah, so far,
starting the last week in Philly through this match, there hasn't been a problem yet. Last
time it happened on just a freak shot on a backhand and a ligament kind of popped or
something. So, so far so good. 
 
Q. Did you feel like you were serving really well? It looks like you were really able
to get her?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, same as -- indoors helps serving so much, and when you feel
like you're able to hold your serve, you just -- there's just so much less pressure on you
to break all the time, and the other player probably feels more pressure to hold. I was
broken once and that's it, and that's pretty good against a good runner like Anke. You
know, just hope to keep serving well and put a lot of first serves into play and win a lot
of points off that. 
 
Q. Venus said the other day that you must be happy that Serena is out of the tournament
because it makes it easier for you?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: She always kicks my butt, so... (Laughs) No, I'm just joking. When I
heard, I was a little shocked. But yeah, I mean, technically, it makes the draw a little
bit easier. I haven't beaten her in a number of years and she is a very dangerous player.
But, you know, whoever -- if I play Tauziat, she's won the last few tournaments; it's not
like I'm playing nobodies here. But I felt bad for her. It was the first time she's
qualified here, and I think she's only played in three tournaments since the French or
something ridiculous like that; so she's had a rough last six months. 
 
Q. What do you think about Serena and Venus exchanging barbs?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Were they? The stuff at the Open was ridiculous. I stopped paying
attention to that. 
 
Q. Does it amuse you a little bit?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It's fun. That's exactly what it is; it's amusing. It's good. It
makes everybody -- the papers put it on the front page. Obviously, people are interested
in it.  
 
Q. Would you prefer to meet Nathalie or Dominique?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Gosh, in my whole career, I've only played Dominique once, which is
pretty amazing. It would be nice to play somebody different. I've played Nathalie a couple
of times, I think, on this court. Nathalie is very dangerous in the serve-and-volley game,
she won the last few tournaments. But totally two different matches. One is a
serve-and-volleyer; one is a baseliner. It would be nice to play Van Roost, because I've
only played her once, but Nathalie -- at the same time -- we're friends. I don't really
care, basically.  
 
Q. How do you compare this to a year ago?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It's tough, match-by-match. I mean last year my first round, I
struggled against Testud, and this year I struggled against Mauresmo. And then last year
in the second round, I played well and won easily as tonight, I won fairly easily. I'm
getting better as the tournament goes on. I think my serve is a little bit better than
last year. Every year I've been back to the Garden, I think I've become a slightly better
player in some aspect; so I'm probably a little bit of a better player and a little
smarter. But, if moments last year that I played great would be better than if I played
normal, I don't know.  
 
Q. You talked about this being amusing and getting on the front page, are you ever
going to be part of the verbal --
 
 ? LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I hope not. I think I was involved in one I and was like , oohh
(shaking head). 
 
Q. Can you tell us about last night's doubles loss, how significant was that to you?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It's disappointing whenever you lose a match in a big tournament,
and especially doubles, we lost a close match, finished late. But it was -- it was good
for me to get back out there on the court and keep playing. You can obviously get over
doubles a little bit quicker than a singles loss, probably. I was upset for about an hour
and I was fine. 
 
Q. Were you thinking about --?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Winning four times with four different partners? That's a bad
record. That means I can't keep a partner. No, I didn't think about it like that. But it
would have been nice to get to the finals, but that's okay.  
 
Q. You are a likeable person and have many friends on the Tour, but can you describe
your relationship with Steffi as frosty, what happened there?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I never -- I'm a pretty outgoing person. I've never really talked to
her, but I think she came from an era where you didn't talk to a lot of the other players
and you pretty much kept to yourself. I wouldn't call it "frosty"; I would just
call it, there was nothing. We never really ever spoke. I never saw her in the locker
room. I never had really a conversation with her in all the years that we've played. And a
lot of the time, you know, '96, '97, she didn't play a lot, with injuries. And I think at
the end of her career, she was never really around like the tennis at all. So I never got
a chance to get to know her.  
 
Q. Was there any moment leaving Philadelphia that you thought you wouldn't play here?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No. I didn't know how bad it was Tuesday night when I was playing my
first doubles. I knew it was a little sore Sunday night. Monday, I practiced for maybe
like 25 minutes here, just to hit on the court, but after a long weekend, I didn't want to
hit much. And then Tuesday night on doubles, I really noticed it was going to give me
problems. It was one of these things where I didn't realize how bad it was until I started
moving around. Normally with muscle pulls, I have a -- I tend to heal quickly from them
for whatever -- this is like the trainer saying my muscle fibers or something, I don't
know. I thought once I got through Wednesday, it would feel a lot better tonight. And it
didn't bother me; so I don't foresee any problems for the weekend. 
 
Q. There was no thought in the middle of that match about pulling out?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: In the doubles? No. I didn't want to pull out of again. I pulled out
last week in the doubles. It didn't bother me; so I didn't want to stop. 
 
Q. What time did that end?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: We finished maybe around midnight. You weren't here? Thanks.
(Laughs). 
 
Q. What did you think about that game in the second set, the third game, when you came
back from Love-40?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I was a little bit disappointed at 1-love. I think I was up on
her serve and had a few opportunities to break and got down Love-40. It's one of those
things; it's a fast court and my serve helps me out. I think I might have served maybe
five unreturnable serves to win the game, and it just got me out of trouble, to be able to
hold, and that was the whole turning point. I held her serve for 2-1, and she didn't win
another game. She was probably a little -- gave me all the momentum then. 
 
Q. You can recognize that even though you won tonight that maybe there's a little more
buzz about Hingis and Williams playing tomorrow, do you recognize that? It doesn't bother
you?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No. I mean, it's been a great -- it's been a rivalry developing.
Probably a more interesting matchup in the minds of the public and fans, Hingis versus
Williams. I don't know who my opponent is yet, but it's great. I mean, it's going to be a
great match.  
 
Q. As at the US Open, Pete Sampras, when he plays, he always faces questions about not
being interesting enough, you know, that he's more boring compared to maybe Andre or
something. Do you feel like people perceive you wrongly in that way at all?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: People perceive whatever they want. I've always read that stuff
about Pete and kind of laughed because, you know, just because he's different and he
doesn't, like, act all crazy doesn't mean he's boring. But if people want to think I'm
boring, that's fine. It's not going to change if I'm ranked 2 or 1 or 3 in the world. It's
not going to change my enjoyment. That's the way it is. Some people are more outgoing with
the press, with the fans, with their actions on the court or off the court or in public
surroundings. And I'm just a pretty quiet person and don't want a lot of fanfare, anyway,
so I'm not going to do acts or say things to try and get it, either. 
 
Q. Are you surprised at how sharp you came into Philly and how you've been able to go
through pretty easily?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Going into a tournament after coming back from an injury, I was only
out a month, which is a long time to a tennis player, but I guess in actuality, it's not
that long. But I was completely surprised when I won the semis against Venus like 1-2. The
three weeks prior, I didn't do anything and I was hurt only a week going in and I wasn't
sure if my wrist was going to come up, hold up. And to come back and meet Martina, No. 1
player in the world, I was amazed when it was over. It's great to be able to do that. It's
hard to do that, to keep the momentum going in there. And like I said whatever happens,
happens. To end the year well, if I lose tomorrow, win, to end the year like I have, is
going to help me next year, and considering I didn't really think I would be playing. 
 
Q. Where does regaining No. 1 stand for you as a goal?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Not very high. I've never -- never thought of that too much. I mean,
as soon as the year ends and you get back on the practice court sometime in December, it's
going to be to try and win the Australian Open. I thought I had a good chance last year,
lost a very close match. So the focus is going to be to trying to win the Australian Open,
first, and I'll kind of make goals after the Australian Open. But the rankings, I've never
been a huge believer in that. It was great to finish the year No. 1 one last year, but
that as the extent of it. 
 
Q. Do you get any holiday after this?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yes, I'll have some. 
 
Q. Baltimore?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: That's for charity. I'm going to go home for Thanksgiving and go on
vacation for about a week to 10 days. 
 
Q. Where?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: The Bahamas. I said that last time. You weren't at my last press
conference? 
 
Q. You won the Fed Cup in September. You know that the format will change next year.
The French are against the new format, what is your opinion about that?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I was really -- I really -- I like the way we played it this last
couple of years. It seemed like especially in other countries, it was so popular and got a
lot of people out to the matches. They really supported it. And, you know, I think going
back to the Round Robin is just going back to the same problems we had when we used to
play it all in one week. So I'm not really for it. I like the home -- I like this tie
system like they use in Davis Cup. But these are things that players aren't really
consulted about, that people above us make these decisions and we don't really have a say
in them. 
 
Q. Will you be ready to boycott it?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: You know, I haven't even heard talk like that. I didn't even know
the French team was doing that. I haven't even talked to their players about it. It will
be interesting to see what they said. I'm talk to them now, I guess.  
 
Q. You said you weren't interested as a goal, the No. 1 ranking, this year. Are you
interested in the goal of No. 2?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No, why, did I --. 
 
Q. You could lose it --?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Really? Oh, I didn't know that, no. 
 
Q. Bad news?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I don't really follow the rankings, so -- listen, to ends the year 3
is still pretty damn good. I'm going to try my hardest to keep 2, I guess. I'm going to
try my hardest to win this tournament, and if I win the tournament I'm sure I'm going to
stay at 2. So that's my first goal, is to win the tournament. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT