CHASE CHAMPIONSHIPS OF THE WTA TOUR
November 17, 1999
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How is your leg?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Oh, it's sore. I first hurt it in Philly in the singles final a
couple days ago, and played doubles last night and it was pretty sore; and it was sore
today. But what can you do? It's the end of the year. You know, you hate when you hear
people say, like, "Oh, I'm dying." I'm not dying. But it's tough to play,
especially when something happens, like I have to change directions or stuff like that.
It's kind of -- sometimes a sharp pain, but, you know, try and get through it, and now I
have 48 hours to my next singles match so hopefully it gets better by then.

Q. What happened to it?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I pulled the hamstring, like I said, Sunday in Philadelphia. A
couple days -- it hasn't gotten too much better yet, but hopefully it speeds up tomorrow,
the recovery process.

Q. Is that why it was hard for you to get into the first set?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I was -- you know, you're a little tentative on some shots. A
few balls that I ran for would hurt. As funny as it sounds, I mean, the more I played, the
more I got used to it. I was a little bit upset towards the end of the first set,
thinking, I was really upset; this is how my year was going to end. I called the trainer
out at 1-Love in the second set, and basically just asked, "Is there anything more we
can do, what have you done?" And she says, "Well, we can tape down to your
knee." And I said, "Well, I don't think I want that. Is there anything else we
can do right now to get it better?" And she goes no. That's what kind of turned me
around figuring this is what I'm going to have to play this with; this is what I'm going
to have to do, and I did. I just got used to it I guess. 

Q. Did you think about stopping?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I don't know, I've never retired, and I think this is like the
second time in my career I've called a trainer out. I never like to do anything with
injuries. I don't know, if it would have gotten a lot worse, I'm sure I would have
stopped. I don't like to do that. And it's tough. You hate to hear a player going, oh,
she's hurt and complaining. I'm trying not to do that. But she played -- she did play
great the first set. She served unbelievable and was hitting winners, and then she started
missing a lot of those shots she was making, and, you know, slowly I started to make a few
more shots. And, you know, the second set was only one break, and the one break I got she
was serving 40-Love; so that was a little lucky to win the second set. The third set, I
just got off to a good lead. 

Q. But you got to the point where you thought, "I don't want my year to end this
way"?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: At 1-Love in the second, I just said, "Well, this is the way
it's going to be, I guess." I just wanted to see if there was anything else I could
do. The trainer said no. It's been a hard year. A lot of injuries with my wrist. I think
I've finally, hopefully coming back from that, winning last week, when, you know, I didn't
hit a ball in over three and a half weeks, and then this happens. And that's probably why,
because I didn't -- I couldn't play. But I just didn't want to it to end. It's sad when
anyone gets injured. I felt really bad for Serena yesterday. It's tough. 

Q. How do you judge the level of her game tonight?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I first lost to her in Australia, and the next two times I beat her
pretty easily. Tonight, she played a lot better than those two times. But I think, you
know, the first set she played great, I thought, and she just started to make a few more
errors. And I think what really helped me is her serve. She stopped making as many first
serves; so that gave me a chance to get into the rally because I was having a hard time
returning her first serve. She's so talented. Once I started holding my first serve and
getting a little bit more confidence and serving better, then I think I took her out of
the match a little bit.

Q. Did you have any treatment before going to the press conference?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Oh, yeah. After a match, you know I did most of the my treatment all
day today. I've just been icing it and a little stim -- I don't know the correct language.
But yeah, the rest of the night is pretty much just icing it down, I think.

Q. Are you still playing doubles?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It's so tough to play singles and doubles a lot, but my partner is
one of my really good friends. It's her first time here. She's getting married in a few
days; so I don't want to quit on her now. I'm going to try to play the doubles tomorrow
night and singles again Friday night and hopefully, like I said, it gets better.

Q. Where were you during Steffi Graf's ceremony?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I was getting a lot of treatment for my leg. 

Q. Have you made any plans for the off-season and have you set any goals for the 2000
season?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I haven't looked ahead too far to the 2000 season. Just looking
really forward to Sunday when the season is over. But my partner, like I said, my doubles
partner is getting married next weekend in Florida; so I'm going to go home to California
for Thanksgiving and go to Florida and go to the Bahamas for about 10 days for vacation
and come back to California and think about the year 2000. But it's a little ways off.

Q. Have you thought of any part of your game you want to work on?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No. I just want to get through this tournament. I'm sure at the
first week of December, I'll sit down with my coach and kind of go over things when I want
to accomplish, what I want to do in the next month, and hopefully go from there. 

Q. Are you in the wedding?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: She actually got engaged in January of last year, and we became
really a lot closer right when we started playing doubles around July; so she had already
picked the wedding. A lot of players are: Mary Joe is in the wedding, Monica, Lisa
Raymond, a lot of us are going down; so it should be a lot of fun.

Q. Will it give you some ideas for you?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: For my wedding? It's a couple years off, still. There's a big, like,
part of that that's not there in my life yet. (Laughs). But it will be fun. It's one of my
first friends to get married. I'm only 23; so not too many of my friends will have gotten
married yet.

Q. What do you have to do on Friday against Anke to win in this court?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Playing Anke, I think, indoors is probably the roughest place to
play her. I think that's her favorite surface. It's going to be difficult because she
returns very, very well. So I'm -- my game plan is -- the past was Anke so try and put a
lot of pressure on her serve because she can start doublefaulting when she feels some
pressure on that; so try to go for my return game a lot and try to concentrate on serving
well, because like I said, she returns so well. But it's going to be a little -- it's
going to be difficult because she hits a lot of balls; takes some balls early and hits
them back hard. If my leg is in good shape by then, I hope to outhit her. And if not, I'll
think of something else, I guess.

Q. Were you surprise that had she won so easily today?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Not surprised. I think Anke is a very good player. No, I wasn't
surprised. I mean, 1-1 or 1-2 is a little easy, but I thought she had a good chance to win
the match. I didn't know what the score was going to be. 

Q. Are those injuries, the wrist and your leg, are they aggravations of the previous
ones you had earlier in the year?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: The wrist has been the same problem throughout the beginning of the
year. I missed a few tournaments for that, about five weeks and again in Germany this
year. I missed last month before Philadelphia; so that's the same one. The leg, I think,
is just a result of not being able to, you know, train and practice a lot, and running for
a lot balls. And all of the sudden, I go to Philly to test my wrist out. I ended up
winning; I played great; played a lot of matches. But I don't think the other part of my
body was ready for that. Like I like I said, I think I have a couple days now until
hopefully it gets better.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT