KB FED CUP, FINAL
September 19, 1999
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Lindsay, it's been a few hours now, but can you describe the emotions and feelings
at the end of that third match?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It was great. It's the second time that I've been on a winning team,
and it's a great feeling to win 3-0 like we did. It was great. To win for your country,
and to have a really great team to play, just means a lot. And I think it's a shame that
it doesn't get as much coverage as other sports, but it's still a great honor to have this
title for ourselves and for Billie.

Q. Billie Jean, is that enough to erase memories of last year in Spain?

BILLIE JEAN KING: Well, it's never erased, but it certainly softens the blow. It's good
to remember that one, because it keeps us hungry and striving forward; so I like it. It's
okay. But it does soften the blow a little bit, and it's great that we brought the Fed Cup
back to the United States of America, where it belongs.

Q. Monica, have you ever sat and watched 7 sets of tennis in two days?

MONICA SELES: No.

Q. What is harder watching 7 sets or --

MONICA SELES: It's definitely harder to play. No question. But it's very hard to watch,
I must say.

Q. Did you pick up anything that you learned for future matches, watching?

MONICA SELES: Oh, no.
BILLIE JEAN KING: What do you mean, you don't know?
MONICA SELES: "Oh, no," I said. It's not the purpose of watching these
matches for that. It's just to root for your team.

Q. What's it like to be playing on a team? Most of you play for yourselves most of the
time, and does that affect the way that you play; and also having a coach there with you,
again, how does that -- describe what that is like versus a typical match.

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, it's still an individual sport in a lot of ways, because we're
out there, obviously, playing tennis; it's the same. To have a coach on the court is a
great addition. I think it would be great for the regular Tour to get some tips from your
coach. And a lot of times, you can't see things when you're playing. And to play for a
team, all week we've been practicing, working towards this goal, and it's great. We're not
used to it as tennis players to be on a team; so when we get the opportunity, I think we
all really enjoy it.

Q. Venus, how would you rate yourself in the first two days of the Billie Jean King
serve-and-volley school?

VENUS WILLIAMS: I don't know. You have to ask her. I can't give a grade.

Q. How do you feel about your volleying today?

VENUS WILLIAMS: I definitely felt good with my volleys today. I missed a couple, but
that's what it takes to learn. I'll get there. If I don't keep coming in, I definitely
won't get there.

Q. Serena, what's the best part of working with Billie Jean?

SERENA WILLIAMS: Well, working with Billie Jean is great. She offers only the best
advice, and she's always right with what she says on her techniques and everything. So
it's a real good experience for everyone.

Q. Billie Jean, how big is the gap between the U.S. and other countries? Based on
yesterday and Lindsay's match, it seems like it's significant, but like the second match
showed --

BILLIE JEAN KING: It's not really that significant. Because also, you have to remember
some of the top players didn't play this year, like Graf, and I think Hingis didn't play,
and Arantxa didn't play. We don't know what it would have been like if all the top players
had played. That's why we think it's so important for the U.S. players to play and support
Fed Cup and try to improve the stature of what we're trying to do for the future. We think
it's very important. We just want every country to support it with their very, very best
players like we do.

Q. Venus, how would you assess what happened today, and how much meaning do you place
on that match?

VENUS WILLIAMS: Any match is a match that you want to win. And today, I was definitely
just working on doing my best to come in a lot more and attack the short balls, and it was
a good thing that I played more aggressive. It's difficult to lose the match not doing the
right thing. But today, I think I lost the match, but at least I was moving forward.

Q. Lindsay, does your performance and the American victory take some of the sting out
of the US Open loss?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, I think that's the kind of question Billie would answer: It
never takes the place of anything, but you move on and try to do bigger and better things
as you go on in your career. Losses are always disappointments. You have to learn from
them and get over them, and a week later, here we are winning the Fed Cup. You move on
from your losses, and you still remember them. But then you just try to achieve more, and
whatever you're entered in, just try to do the best you can.

Q. Lindsay, you said you're happy with the win, but how do you feel about the way you
played today?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I thought I played fine. A couple of things I wasn't happy with. I
thought she played pretty well today. It's tough. We've been playing a lot of tennis, and
I think I came through pretty well. And I've got a few more tournaments to play for the
year, but I think we're all looking forward to the ending of this year pretty soon.

Q. Billie Jean, you said earlier the gap wasn't as significant as it seems. But the
core of your team is pretty young, how do you look at the future of the Fed Cup and how
the U.S. compares to maybe other countries?

BILLIE JEAN KING: I just hope that we'll basically have a dynasty from this group and
some of the other players. And also, remember as Lindsay said on the television, we had
three other players who contributed to this team victory during the year, and that's
Chandra Rubin, Lisa Raymond and Mary Joe Fernandez also played on Fed Cup teams earlier
this year. So we have to thank them, as well. But for the future we're very fortunate. As
long as everybody stays healthy, I think we can have a dynasty.

Q. What's it going to take to get the best players from around the world to support
this and play it every year?

BILLIE JEAN KING: They usually do. This was unusual this year. I don't know
particularly why. Usually, it means they're not happy with their association, or just
tired -- I don't know. I really don't. If any of you know, you can offer information.

Q. Venus, having wrapped it up before you went out there, did that affect you at all?

VENUS WILLIAMS: No. It wasn't like I was going to aim to lose the match.

Q. What happened in the third set?

VENUS WILLIAMS: I was up a break, and then a lot of things went on, and then I lost
(laughter.)

Q. Given the fact that so many of the other top players didn't play, and this is the
so-called "Dream Team," does that diminish in any way the enjoyment you're
experiencing from this victory?

BILLIE JEAN KING: No, because you never know. One thing we're very clear about is you
never take for granted anything, and you never know how someone is going to play,
particularly in Fed Cup or Davis Cup or in team situations. It's a different environment.
You don't know how people are going to respond to it. So you can't take it lightly. We
always pretend every ball is coming back, and they're going to have their best day, and
we're still going to have to win. I think the Russian team is a very good team, and
they're still very young.

Q. Lindsay just indicated it might be a good idea to have a coach court-side. If I
could, I'd like to ask you what it would be like for you to have one of your coaches, your
father or your mom, court-side while you're playing?

SERENA WILLIAMS: Well, it would definitely be good in some situations, if you're down
in a match and you're playing a player you don't know. There's a lot of things you don't
see when you're playing that other people can see very well. I think in that aspect, it
would definitely help.

Q. Monica, is there anything you learned or picked up from training with Venus and
Serena this week?

MONICA SELES: I didn't hit with anybody this week; so I don't think I picked up
anything game-wise, but that would not be my aim. But as a team, I think we got along
great, fantastic this week.

Q. Serena, are you planning on playing Fed Cup as well next year? 

SERENA WILLIAMS: For sure, definitely. I really enjoy Fed Cup. I have a great time, and
it's a good opportunity.

Q. Billie Jean, would you like the Fed Cup to come back to northern California soon?

BILLIE JEAN KING: Yeah, it was great. I think it's done beautifully. It's much better
than Atlantic City, extremely wonderful. And I love California, so --

Q. Billie Jean, are you going to ask these four women that led this year to play now or
will you wait?

BILLIE JEAN KING: We'll start the beginning of the year. We have sign-ups now.

Q. Have they offered any pledges to you?

BILLIE JEAN KING: Monica did. I don't think we had a chance to think about what we're
going to do next year. We have the top players sign a form so we know when they're
available. So it helps us know what we're up against or what we're doing.

Q. You said the gap with the other countries is not that great. Has there ever been a
better collection, a better squad on the Fed Cup before?

BILLIE JEAN KING: Probably not, except for the days when Chris Evert and Martina won
just about everything. I think when Rosie Casals and I played, we won about everything. We
even won on clay, where everybody thought we'd get killed; so that was even a bigger deal
to us. Now with this format, 3 out of 5 matches, this is by far the best team ever. It's
not even close.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT