US OPEN
September 2, 1999
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. 45 minutes, did you feel like you got enough out of that match? 45 minutes, did you
get something out of that?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, I don't think at a Grand Slam you're trying to get too much
out of matches. I think you're trying to win, you're trying to win as fast as you can and
get off the court. It's two weeks. You know, with playing doubles and being at the courts,
I don't think you want really tough matches necessarily. I had a three-set match with her
last week. To get out of here as fast as I did, I'm very happy.

Q. At one point you looked up to the press box, you had your towel like this and you
shook your head.

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I'll tell you later. (Laughing.)

Q. Sorry, I thought maybe it was strategic?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No, okay. I have this thing where I don't think coaches should be
interviewed in the middle of a match. Robert's always known that, he's never done it. Then
a couple weeks ago, someone goes, yeah, Robert was talking during your match. I'm like
"what?" I go up to him, I said, "Did you do it." He's like, "Oh,
it was on a changeover, it wasn't anything." I was looking up there, I saw Michael
Barkan come down. I saw Robert. Robert was like, "No, I won't do it." It was
kind of funny. We were joking around. Pretty funny actually.

Q. Can you talk a little bit, I guess it was just a week ago tonight that you played
her, she kind of gave you a little trouble. What was the --

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, I think the courts here are pretty fast. Last week we were
playing on really slow courts which I think she's a better player on slower courts maybe.
And today, you know, I didn't let my concentration wander at all. I was very focused and
did the job, got out of there, played well, did everything that I needed to do, and I
think the other week -- the other time I played her last week, it was just really slow and
I had a hard time putting the balls away. Tonight with the quicker conditions it was much
easier.

Q. Plus being a Slam, you raise your game?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah. Probably, probably you get a little bit more excited, a little
bit more revved up to play, and you don't let your concentration wander at all during
grand slams or you can't, I should say, and I haven't done that yet.

Q. Andre talked the other night about how special it is to be on center court, night
matches with the lights and everything. Today he gets bumped up, and then you're there. Do
you feel the atmosphere is a little more special?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think it's sometimes tough to play the first match. Everyone's
still settling in. The men's match is the showcase match at night. It's fun to play here.
I love the court. It's a great court. I've played very well on it since it's been here the
last few years. I enjoy playing there whether it's 11 a.m., 7:30, whatever time of day it
is.

Q. Even though you're a defending champ, do you feel that people are still looking or
following Hingis and the Williams sisters and not really concentrating on you?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I don't know what everyone's focusing on. I've been playing and
practicing, you know, I don't really listen to what other people say about who's going to
win.

Q. A year later, you came in here obviously in your mind and other players' minds
you're a different player. You have two slams under your belt. Does it feel any different
coming back here? Do you come with a different attitude?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It feels different. You know, last year, grand slams in the past
maybe I was, you know, I'd get more nervous because I hadn't won one and I thought I
needed to win one to prove to myself. Coming back here in a year, it's a much different
feeling. It's more like, "God, I have to win this again, I really want this." I
think I've learned even since Wimbledon how much more important the grand slams are, how
much more exciting they are to play at, how much more they mean in the history of players
and everything about tennis. So I was kind of looking forward to it all summer, kind of in
the back of my mind always, I can't wait to get to New York. I can't wait to get back
there. Once I got here Saturday night I felt really great about being here, really
excited, really, you know, excited about playing and just going from match to match so
far.

Q. You know, for nontennis people who don't know tennis, they still know what Wimbledon
is. Did you get any kind of different reaction, more of a reaction, after winning
Wimbledon then say when you won the US Open?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah. I thought I got a much bigger -- yeah. I think just the way
people in the media covered it, and the way that more people knew about it, you know. And
for some reason, like people that don't know tennis, "oh, she's the one that won
Wimbledon." You hear people say that sometimes when you walk by. You never hear
"that's the US Open" -- you hear "isn't that the tennis player, she's the
one that won Wimbledon" or something. I felt it was a much bigger deal for everybody
else. For me, you know, it's almost the same kind of, but it's treated differently.

Q. Right. One last thing. Are these courts -- everybody's talking about how fast they
are. Are they faster than last year?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I don't think they're necessarily faster than last year, but they're
faster than the courts the women played on during the summer. Last year they were very
fast also. I can't remember exactly, but they're pretty similar.

Q. It's obviously good for you. Some players have a problem with how fast they're
playing.

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: The faster, the better. (Laughing)

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT