THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 20, 1999
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








REVEN OLIVER:  First question for Lindsay.


Q.  How did you feel out there today?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I felt very good.  It's always great to get out on centre court off the start and win the first set so easily.  It felt really great.  It felt like a good court.  I'm happy to win my first match. 


Q.  You had to feel good being No.  1 at the end of '98, beginning of this year.  Now you've slipped back a notch.  How important is it to you to get back where you were?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It's not so important.  I played some great tennis there last year, especially about the last seven months.  I started off the year great also.  Hopefully then the last two tournaments haven't been so good, just getting back to the level I know I can play at.  This is one of the few hard court tournaments, maybe the only one in the States, I haven't won.  I'm kind of looking to do that then, move to the clay.  This is the last opportunity on the hard courts, so I want to take advantage of it. 


Q.  When you see all the players that have won this tournament before, how much more importance do you place on it?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, it's amazing.  The Lipton pretty much is a Grand Slam, if you look at the field, if you look at how big the draw is.  It's a very, very important tournament.  Never winning it here, I think I've got to the semifinals twice, it really makes you want to win it more.  Especially this year, not having great results the last two tournaments, trying to rebound here. 


Q.  Talk about your rise in general.  You didn't have as much media attention focused on you from the beginning.  How much do you think that helped you kind of know who you are and feel confident in your own game, then deal with everything else that comes with the level you're at?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It was a long road, and it was a fun road.  I mean, there was a couple bumps along the way.  But, fortunately, I didn't have too many distractions.  I was able to concentrate on my tennis, deal with some other problems off the court, then really at the end of '95 when I really made my push to be the best I can, just really trained full out and not have to worry about outside problems, really just concentrate on the tennis.  It's been like that luckily my whole career.  I think I've done a great job of balancing tennis and work and fun and everything that goes along with being a tennis player. 


Q.  If you take a look at Anna Kournikova, for instance, so much attention on her, yet she hasn't won any major tournaments or anything.  Can you imagine if you had to go through developing as a tennis player with that much attention?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I think it's tough for all the young girls that are playing.  I think Martina has handled it so well.  I don't think she really gets enough credit for that, how much she's had to deal with.  People said since I think she was 11 she was going to be No.  1 in the world, be a star.  Yet she's the only one that really lived up to it all, the only one that doesn't seem to let other things bother her.  It must be hard for Kournikova.  I think she feels a lot of pressure probably, being one of that group that hasn't won a tournament yet, is kind of  -- Serena, Venus and Martina have all done so well.  She's trying, she's a great athlete.  It really must be difficult for her. 


Q.  Do you kind of break down what it would take for you to finish No.  1?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  For the year, it's so far away.  I mean, right now I think it's still pretty close, right? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Who knows.  I don't like to worry about things like that because you feel pressure, "I want Martina to lose."  You don't want to go out thinking like that.  You want to think, "I want to win."  I'm pretty sure if I won the tournament, I'd be No.  1 again.  Who knows on the math.  That's what I look at, trying to win the tournament.  You don't have to worry about anything about it. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT