CHASE CHAMPIONSHIPS OF THE COREL WTA TOUR
November 20, 1998
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What was the problem before the match started? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I had a blister on kind of the ball of my foot and I had it taped before the match and when I was warming up; it was still kind of bothering me so all she -- she thought it was better to do it then than in the middle of the match so she taped it a different way.  I am about to go have it popped.  I am sure you wanted to know that. 
 

Q.  A little less drama than Wednesday?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I mean, I said I think Wednesday night sometimes when you get through matches like that, they kind of loosen you up and you play better tennis your next time out.  First set I played really great tennis.  I don't think I had many errors.  I was seeing the ball well, and she is tough to play indoors because she is serving and volleying a lot and I don't think she served so well tonight; that gave me an opportunity to really take advantage of the points from the first shot. 
 

Q.  Now an opportunity at revenge for last week?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, it is fun.  I mean, she is obviously playing the best tennis right now and you always want to kind of go up against the best and she has definitely been doing that her last couple of tournaments.  Last night's match was unbelievable tennis, I thought. And it will be exciting.  I hope to play well, and, you know, I think we are 2 and 2 for the year.  Maybe I will go up 3-2 before the year is over. 
 

Q.  Is it good to play someone so quickly after you have lost to her?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I don't mind as long as, you know, it is the semifinals.  It is not like it is first or second round, which it could have been, but sometimes it is great to kind of get back out there against someone that you recently lost to, and some of the stuff that is still fresh in your mind; maybe what you did wrong or what she did really well is still there, and -- but by far, it is very tough to play her indoors.  I think this and grass - I don't know - maybe indoors is better, her favorite surface, and it is going to be difficult. 
 

Q.  When you played her in Philly just the level of her play surprise you considering --
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No, it doesn't surprise me.  I mean, she has obviously been playing great, and most of the time when she steps out there she plays great tennis so, no, it doesn't surprise me. 
 

Q.  Did it feel good to play here, a match that was  completely different than the first one as the No. 1 player, in other words, is it almost embarrassing not to play well when you are No. 1 in the world and here, at least, you came out and demonstrated to people that you are?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I mean, you only can do the best that you can, and I did the best that I can on Wednesday, and I wasn't embarrassed by it.  I just felt that some days you don't have your best tennis in you.  I was able to get through it which is probably a bigger positive than anything, and to come out tonight it feels great to win, but sometimes it feels way better to win when you are not playing well than a match like tonight when you play well.  I always say it is easy to win when you are playing well, but too tough-out the matches that you are not playing well is what you play for and kind of gets you more excited.  Obviously tomorrow I hope to play well and we will see what happens. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT