US OPEN
September 13, 1998
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How hard was it to come out and play today? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It wasn't so bad. All along I knew I was going to have to come back
out on Sunday. I pretty much enjoyed it. We didn't play great, but they played well and
won. It was fun to be back out there. Normally you have to wait a year to get back to that
court that holds so many memories, and I only had to wait about twelve hours. 
 
Q. What time did you go to bed? -- You still didn't answer the question.
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I know, I'm not going to. 
 
Q. Did you have people in the city congratulating you or anything like that?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I went out -- a big group of us, about 16, we all the went out for
my mom's birthday. We went to the Palm Restaurant. We stayed there for a long time. A lot
of people were coming up to me in the restaurant and on the street. It's very exciting,
very happy. It's just been a great couple of weeks. 
 
Q. Doesn't the Palm Restaurant have a lot of pictures; caricatures?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, but they took some down, the guy was explaining it to me. 
 
Q. Would you like to see yourself up there?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No. 
 
Q. What's next for you?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I'm going to stay here for a few days. My family is going to stay
with me and we'll do some fun stuff. Then I'm going to go home for about ten days, then
it's back to Grand Slam Cup and a couple of tournaments in Europe. I have a tournament in
Filderstadt, in Zurich, a couple weeks off, then Philadelphia and then the championships
here in New York. Then the year is over . 
 
Q. What a memorable one?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It's been a great year. Yeah, I couldn't dream of ever winning this
tournament and doing it the way I did and having it been so exiting for myself. Pretty
much whatever happens for the rest of the year is really icing on the cake. That
everything I really wanted to do, I did so far, and just really enjoy the last couple of
months of the year. 
 
Q. Was there a particular moment last night before you went to bed, or this morning
when you woke up, where you said -- (inaudible.)
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: We kept saying it the whole dinner -- "I won the US open."
We did about 20 toasts. It was everyone's birthday and then about every ten minutes
someone would stand up and give a toast. We were all having a good time. It was almost
great after I was done here and before we met to go out, just being by myself for a half
hour was really nice, just sitting down and relaxing and thinking about it for a little
bit. Realizing that I accomplished a goal. It's really tough in life to set out and
achieve your goals and I really felt that I did that. 
 
Q. Where did you sit for that half an hour?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Just in my room, nowhere great. I didn't go out. 
 
Q. Did the Olympics do much for you for endorsements or other financial things coming
with the gold medal?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I don't know if I got stuff because of the Olympics or if it wasn't
-- I really don't know. I have no idea if the stuff I got was because the Olympics, I
never asked. 
 
Q. My guess is if there were that one huge thing where somebody came the day after the
gold medal and said we're from "X", you would know it -- 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I don't think so. 
 
Q. Do you think this will?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I don't care. I have no idea. I didn't do it for that reason.
Whatever happens is fine. I don't have any idea. 
 
Q. What was your primary reason for just buckling down and doing it?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think the last couple of years practicing hard and setting out a
goal where I wanted to win a Grand Slam. In the same case, I wanted to give myself every
opportunity to win one. Be in the best shape I could be, try my hardest, and then if it
doesn't work out you can't regret anything. Coming into this tournament I did everything
possible that I could do. If I could win it would be great, but even if I didn't I would
still know I tried my hardest and did everything I could. It worked out that I won. Things
just fall into place for reasons, you can't describe them -- people were saying in
California she's peaking too soon, and I would just laugh and say, "Well,
whatever." 
 
Q. I know Martina said something to you to the effect of too good yesterday. Did she
say anything else to you?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No, I don't think so. I don't remember anything specific about
tennis or anything. 
 
Q. How much has Robert meant to you? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, obviously a lot. He has been with me for a lot of years,
worked very, very hard with me, been very patient, pushed me very hard, it's been great to
do it obviously when he's with me he has been with me like six years and we worked so hard
for it. 
 
Q. Lindsay, what do you plan on doing in New York; sight-seeing, rewarding yourself
with something?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I have to get up early to do some TV shows in the morning, I don't
think that's rewarding myself. I really don't know, one of my sisters has never been here
in the city. We'll probably just walk around and shop. I don't plan on buying myself
anything or doing anything like that. I really haven't had any time to spend time in the
city, just try to enjoy the city. I like Central Park a lot, I like walking around. 
 
Q. Is there a TV show you would like to be on, like Letterman?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I pretty much have chosen the ones I want to be on. 
 
Q. Which ones?
 
 JIM FUHSE: It's not set yet. 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I've given my opinion of what I want and what I don't want. 
 
Q. Will it be any of the late ones? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Maybe, we'll see. 
 
Q. Are there some that you like and some that you don't like?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Uh-huh, you'll see when I'm on one that that's the one I wanted to
be on. 
 
Q. Is it in California?
 
 JIM FUHSE: We have time for one more question she has to do a photo shoot. 
 
Q. Have you talked to Tracey Austin about winning the U.S. Open? Has she ever given you
advice?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I talk to her a lot. I don't think she's ever pulled me aside and
said let me give you advice. She's someone I've known since I am little, we are from the
same area. But in terms of, you know, I think she was always just, good luck have fun,
she's been very supportive and very sweet. You know sometimes players come up and say well
you should have done this, and she's never been like that. I haven't talked to her yet
about winning the U.S. Open. 
 
Q. When did it really start to sink in that you are the U.S. Open champion?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Who knows, the stuff that happened on the court it's all a blur --
first one you are so happy. I think I said afterwards we went back to the hotel before we
went out to dinner, I went -- I was by myself for a half hour, thinking about what I had
done, that I accomplished the goal that I wanted to do. You can't describe things like
that. You put so many goals in your life and you hope you can achieve some of them in your
life and I was able to do the one I most wanted to do. Now you have to look for other
ones. 
 
Q. You said something along the lines that no one ever said you would ever succeed.
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Right. 
 
Q. Do think this will change it or does it give you satisfaction in a way?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: You always read articles that people say she is never going to win
the big one. I would say that's not very smart, I've got a lot of years left in my career.
People are going to say what they want, they're pretty dumb. I'm just going to go out
there and try my best. I practice very hard to do everything I could and won the one I
wanted to win. Right now I feel like if I didn't win another, it's fine. Who knows what
happens. I'm really happy it was this one and the Olympics. 
 
Q. Have you heard from Billie Jean?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I talked to her last night. I had the most messages. It was
like, you have 23 messages. And I said, oh, my god. I haven't called anybody back yet,
it's really bad. Before the match Billie just said, "You know what you have to
do." I nodded, I know she was telling me I knew what I had to do. I knew everything I
could do and I could do it. And I did it and she called me back and she said I'm really
proud of you, you looked great, you couldn't be happier and that's what she said. 
 
Q. Let's skip the list of 23. A few others who called you that were significant for
you.
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: They are all pretty significant. I had some friends on the men's
tour that called, that was really nice. When you hear from other players that means a lot
because you know it was like -- I'm not going to tell you who, I can see you going like --
it's funny, the first call I got, and I'll never forget it, was from a guy that plays on
Tour, his name is Brian McPhie. He called and he said it was 3:27 and I just won match
point and he called and was screaming in the phone. Those are the ones you remember, the
people that you play with. I went through the whole list. You just know a lot of people,
friends of mine are very happy for me, it was a great feeling. 
 
Q. Do you think the hotel will let you keep the tape?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I am going to listen to them today. 
 JIM FUHSE: She's got to do a photo shoot. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT