US OPEN
September 11, 1998
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. You made it? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I did (laughter). You mean in here? I'm just kidding. Yeah, you
know, it's a terrific feeling. You know, losing in three, you know, giving myself more and
more chances to get back there. But if I had to do it all over again, I would definitely
pick to do it here at the US Open. You know, it's just everything's worked out great. I
wouldn't trade anything that's happened in the last year or two. I've got one more match
to go. 
 
Q. Are you going to be able to shake off the excitement?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think so. I think it's actually more positive for me to play again
tomorrow. I kind of like to keep it going and play again tomorrow, just like a normal
tournament. You know, you have a big win, you've got to get over it, play again the next
day. Hopefully, that will happen. This time, I came to the US Open not to lose in the
semis. My goal was to try and win it here. Tonight, my thoughts will be on Martina for
tomorrow. 
 
Q. What's the key for tomorrow?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think I've got to go for my shots. I'm probably going to have some
unforced errors tomorrow, but I think I really have to be aggressive. I have to attack her
second serve. I think I can't let her dictate the points around. That means going for some
thoughts and being aggressive. 
 
Q. What were your thoughts on match point?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Really, you know, at 5-4, I was just trying to be calm and tell
myself, you know, to serve a good game out. Against Coetzer, it was kind of a shaky game.
I really wanted to serve good first serves, put this thing away from the beginning, put a
good first serve in. I knew the return was going long, and really it was just -- it was
relief, it was happiness, it was joy obviously getting to my first final. Really just
almost like you can't believe it. I mean, no one ever said when I was growing up I was
ever going to be any good or get to a Grand Slam final, or in my teens I wasn't expected
to do anything. I think I've really proven a lot of people wrong. I think I've, you know,
tried so hard to do the best I can. I'm not the most unbelievable athlete, I'm not
anything. I just tried so hard to get where I'm at. I think it's great. 
 
Q. You looked incredibly purposeful and calm. Was that kind of a high point for you in
terms of having absolute emotional control?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Definitely. That's something -- another thing I've been working on,
is just to be calm, be mentally tougher, not to worry about bad points. As soon as I got
up the break, you know, I just said, "From now on, just be calm, don't let anything
bother you, play smart, and you're going to win this match." I was able to do that
for the last couple of games. 
 
Q. You served very well in the second set (inaudible)?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah. Really, I was a little bit worried about my elbow going in.
After the match went on, I kind of realized, you know, it's feeling a lot better, it's
doing pretty good. I was able to really relax my arm a lot and serve a lot better. I think
I held my serve throughout the second set, which was a big change from the first when
there were so many breaks. But it was great to get over that. I got broken so many times
the first set, kept coming back so many times to break her back, served the set out, and
continued to hold my serve the rest of the match. 
 
Q. She talked about your power. Do you think over the balance of the match, you
outpowered her a bit?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think maybe. I think she wasn't going for her shots as much,
trying maybe to be a little more consistent, it was giving me a little bit more time to
set up. I knew if I had the opportunity, I really had to go for the shot. I was able to do
that. But really I think the key was probably a few less unforced errors on my part, just
playing a little bit more solid on some bigger points. And that's kind of how matches turn
around. 
 
Q. When you say that other people were saying you weren't going to be any good, what
were you saying to yourself? Did you believe it?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No. I mean, people never say anything nice really, not too many
people (laughter). I'm serious. So I just kind of said, "Okay, that's fine."
But, you know, everyone says, you know, when people are young, "They're going to be
great. They're going to be great." No one ever said anything to about me. I was never
a prodigy, I was never going to be any good. For me, I think I've just maximized
everything I've had, tried harder, just let people say what they want. Maybe it bothered
me a little bit in my early teens, my mid teens, but I kind of realized after a certain
point, there's no use in listening to it or arguing with it. 
 
Q. In the last year or two, you've heard other players say they are going to be No. 1.
Do you listen to that?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I just kind of laughed. If anyone has the most right, I think Jana
and I do, to say we're going to be No. 1. You don't hear us doing that. We're going to let
our play talk for ourselves, and we'll see what happens at the end of year. 
 
Q. (Inaudible)?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: What color was that seventh going to be? I wanted to know that. 
 
Q. Red, white and blue.
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: That was good (laughter). 
 
Q. How many tennis outfits did you have?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I have the same outfit, but a lot of them. I don't know how many. 
 
Q. Speaking of No. 1, how do you and possibly the rest of the tour look at Hingis? Do
you think she's more beatable now, or you're just getting more used to her game?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think she had a phenomenal year last year. Think she had one of
the best years a woman can have in women's tennis. I think that always kind of comes to an
end a little bit. I think she is a little bit more beatable this year. I think players
have played her a little smarter maybe. But she's still No. 1; she's still a great player.
You know, I think she -- I don't know if she got bored, but she even said she lost her
will a little bit in the beginning, in the middle of the year. Some other people got it
from her. So tomorrow, it's just going to be a tough match. She's obviously been in the
finals a lot more than I have. I'm just going to have to go for it. 
 
Q. Was the bathroom break a little (inaudible)?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Probably. I played her a couple weeks ago in Stanford. When I got up
a set and a break, she called an injury time-out. I kind of was laughing that she might do
that joking before the match. And then she did it. I was like, "Oh, God." But,
that's too bad. Hopefully, she had to go to the bathroom. I don't know if she did. But
it's happened a lot with all those players. They all seem to be doing it. I think it's
terrible. I'm not saying she didn't have to go to the bathroom, but I think it's just
almost become like a gamesmanship. And I don't like it. I've never taken a bathroom break
I don't think in my six-year history, and there's been more this year than ever. 
 
Q. Should the rule be changed?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think the rule should be you have to take it in the first two,
three games of a set, or you have to take it if it's your serve coming up, or if it's past
4-All or 3-All in the second, you lose a point or something. I just think it happens too
much this year to be, you know, a legitimate rule almost. 
 
Q. You said earlier that you're not the most unbelievable athlete. What are some of the
things that you have to do to overcome people who are called or considered unbelievable
athletes?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Venus is a great example. She's a tremendous athlete, probably the
best one that plays tennis. For me, I have to stick to the things that I do well, that's
hitting groundstrokes, that's for me being aggressive, probably not being on the defense,
and keeping the other people off balance. And that's really what I concentrate on. When I
play another hard hitter, I try to keep the hit -- try and get the first shot at the ball
so she can't step in. Today that was my strategy. It paid off. You know, there were a few
errors on Venus' part. That was the difference. 
 
Q. Venus wouldn't concede today that you're the better player. The only thing she would
say was that you've had the better result this year. Do you feel you're the better player?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, that's tough to say. I mean, we've both had great results this
year. You know, she's a lot younger than me, and she could turn out to be a way better
player. I think I've just played a couple more years and have maybe played a little bit of
smarter matches when we've played. It's too hard to compare players, you know, who's
better, who's not. I mean, I have a better record against her, but that doesn't mean
that's the way it's going to be. 
 
Q. Venus and Martina, so much different players, although Venus can change speeds,
generally once you get grooved into the speed, you can get a pretty good groove with her.
Hingis will give you lots of different speeds, looks. Do you have more trouble with that
kind of a player?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Probably. I like playing aggressive players because I think I can
outhit them a lot of times. With Martina, it's a little bit more of a thinking match in
terms. Also she gives me more time to get to the ball and set up a lot of times. She
doesn't have has good a second serve as Venus. Hopefully I can really try and attack that
and win some points that way. Sometimes it is a more difficult match for myself with
players who get a lot of balls back and keep them deep, just kind of keep the ball in.
Martina is a little bit more aggressive than that. If I keep the balls deep on her and
have some time, we've played a lot of times, you know, I still think I can win. 
 
Q. You've talked about prodigies. You've seen a lot of prodigies in tennis go up in
smoke. In retrospect, for you has the long haul pretty much been the better haul?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think so. I don't think you can really say This player is going to
make it, because it's happened so many times that the players haven't. Sometimes they
have. But for me, really I feel like I've done it my own, kind of almost through the back
door in the beginning. Just kind of played. You know, no one ever picked me to do well. I
just kind of improved, was able to do it out of the spotlight, was able to kind of grow up
on my own pace, do everything that I wanted to do before I really set my eyes on tennis.
And the last couple years have been great. I think I've improved so much, done so many
good, positive things to my game. I kind of ended that (laughter). Sorry. 
 
Q. Following up on that, is raw athleticism overrated?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think in tennis, you don't have to be -- you know, you don't have
to jump high, you don't have to necessarily be lightning quick. There's all different
types of players that can play tennis. For me, I have good hand-eye coordination, I move
fairly well, and I hit the ball hard. Some players like Arantxa, she moves unbelievable,
that's what makes her great. I think you can have different strengths that make you a good
tennis player. 
 
Q. What family members are here?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: My mom, my sister and her husband, and my other sister and her
husband are flying in tonight. So I'll have both my sisters and my mom. 
 
Q. You were talking about your focus, really focused this year. Particularly in a match
like this, does playing someone like Venus, who has gotten a lot of publicity for a lot of
reasons, does that help also focus you in on what you have to do, what you want to do?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Not really. I mean, I looked at this as a good opportunity to get to
the finals, knowing that I could beat my opponent. I never try and worry about who's more
popular, who gets more press, you know, anything like that. For me, I looked at my other
opponents in semifinals, Arantxa, Conchita and Martina. I looked at this one as being my
best shot. I thought I had a better match-up against her. That's what I wanted to take
advantage of. 
 
Q. Talking about working on your calmness, does that come after your success or did it
kind of precede it this year?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think it was during. You kind of play matches where you lose
matches because of your attitude. I kind of realized that at the end of last year,
beginning of this year. I kind of said I didn't want to go through that again. I've just
tried to be positive, tried to be calm, see what happens. I mean, could lose the first set
6-1 tomorrow, be calm, and come back and win. You never know what happens. That's kind of
what I've learned. 
 
Q. Is that kind of what happened today, when you got up 3-Love, then you lost a bunch
of points, a whole different match?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah. I mean, I started to make a lot of errors. I just tried to
tell myself, You're back to 3-All, let's try and keep it going from there. I was able to
do that. I didn't get down. I was having a hard time holding my serve, but I didn't let it
bother me. I was able to pull out the first set, which was probably the key. 
 
Q. Did you keep your eye on the first match? Did you know what the score was?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I was watching most of it on TV. I thought it was a great match.
That was an unbelievable comeback by Martina. You know, I wasn't watching the match
scouting-wise. But I was watching it pretty much as a tennis fan. I thought they had great
points. It was a great comeback by Martina. 
 
Q. Were you surprised up 4-1 that Jana wasn't able to pull it out?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I was surprised because she was playing well. But I thought
Martina wasn't just going to go away. So I thought it would still be a tough match from
then. But Martina just stopped missing. 
 
Q. Other than Graf, is there any player out there you feel can outhit you in a forehand
cross-court rally?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I don't think Steffi can. Just kidding (laughter). Uh-oh. Gosh,
Steffi does that well. We've had some good ones. But, you know, I love hitting that. It
depends on a given day. But I like my chances in that rally with most players. 
 
Q. Who is the first person outside your family to believe in you?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I mean, everyone that I've ever worked with has always been very
supportive of me, from lie first coach, Robert Lansdsorp, to Robert van't Hof. They're all
very supportive. What's great, you know, my coach now isn't doing this if I win a Grand
Slam or not. He doesn't care. He just wants to see me get better. He wants to see me do
the best I can and see what happens. I don't feel any pressure or anything from anybody
that I have to do this. 
 
Q. How would you describe current relations between Venus and other top players? Last
year you said she never responds when you say hi.
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I think she's getting better. I think being another year on
the tour for her and her sister, I think that they feel maybe a little bit more
comfortable and are a little bit more social. I mean, it's tough. You know, I don't think
they went to school, I think all of a sudden they're thrust into this spotlight with a lot
of other players, a lot of girls. They probably didn't know totally how to respond.
They're much more friendly now. I think they realize they're going to be around for a long
time. I think they're just more used to everybody. 
 
Q. Did Lynn or Robert at any time in the last six years, anything they said to you that
you have stuck in your mind all these years that you'll never forget when you're perhaps
not doing well?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Oh, gosh. I don't know anything like specific, like one saying. But
it's important to me to know had that they've always been on my side for six years, that
they'll still be on my side if I lose a match. I don't know. I think just their belief in
me. They always said, "You can do it. It doesn't matter if you're 20 or 27. You're a
good player and it will happen." I think that's been the most important thing, just
security in my mind knowing that the people who work with me will always be there. 
 
Q. Do you think in the future you might consider going to the net more?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No (laughter). No. Not until like I take like volley lessons for a
year. 
 
Q. How are you going to prepare for this match? Is it going to be any different
mentally? What are you going to do in the hours between now and then? Do you feel this is
the biggest match of your life?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I mean, I guess it probably would be. Probably not going to take
that approach to it. Probably finish doing all this kind of stuff, go home, be with my
family back to the hotel, and just relax. I mean, it's very exciting, but at the same time
we've got to get over it and play again tomorrow. You can't get too caught up in this
right now. It's been very exciting. It's been a huge goal of mine to get to the finals.
Now I'm going to try to take it a step further. I'm going to approach the match like I
have nothing to lose, this is my time, I'm going to go for it, and really try and enjoy
it, win or lose. 
 
Q. Do you liken it at all to your Olympics win?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No. 
 
Q. When you beat Martina, what worked for you?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Really, I think for me I have to be attacking from the first couple
balls, especially the second serve. I have to serve well. She can get frustrated. I think
Martina loses when she's overpowered. I think Martina loses to like a Mary Pierce or a
Venus, and myself. You have to overpower her. That's what I'm going to try and do. 
 
Q. With all your great runs during the Grand Slams, but never to a final, can you say
one or two things that you think you've learned from all that experience over your years?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah. I think everything has just kind of been in the back of my
mind, everything that I've learned has been there. Losing matches, winning some close
ones. For me really, going on this streak this summer was winning a few close matches at
the beginning of the summer, and coming back -- you know, coming into the US Open playing
so well and not really losing. I haven't lost a set yet here. I just feel very calm. And I
think being in the semis before, I think kind of going through losing and everything else
has really helped me through to play well this US Open. 
 
Q. Do you feel with all the success that you've had, you have a little bit of a
"see, I told you so" attitude?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, maybe. I've never not believed in myself. It's great. People
will write tomorrow that I'm playing well. If I lose on Sunday, I'll hear, "She'll
never win one again." For me, I just keep the attitude like I've improved so much the
last couple years. Every year has gotten better, my results have gotten better every year.
If it's not meant to be tomorrow, I think I still have a great shot next year. I'm going
to go for it tomorrow. This has been my dream, to win the US Open. And tomorrow's my mom's
birthday, so it would be great. 
 
Q. How many years?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, right (laughter). If I said that, that would be like Kiss of
Death. Wouldn't matter that I won today (laughter). 
 
Q. So McGwire hit his 61st on his father's 61st.
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Did he? It would be great. It's my mom's birthday. And another kind
of sad thing that's happened, my grandmother passed away two days before the US Open
started. So it's kind of been -- the first couple days were bittersweet a little bit. It
would be great to be able to do it for both of them. 
 
Q. Is this your mother's mother?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No, my father's mother. 
 
Q. Will the crowd be a factor tomorrow?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Maybe. I think that they like to see upsets. I think if I play good
tennis, I'll have them on my side. And hopefully at the end of day, they'll be behind me. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT