US OPEN
September 9, 1998
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Congratulations. When the match points come and go, they come and go, what are you
feeling at that time? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It's tough, especially in these conditions. You kind of never know
what's going to happen. You know, I had a point to go up 5-2, which was like the longest
point I think of my career. I ended up losing it. But really, you know, I just really
stayed positive. When I got back to deuce, tried to give myself another opportunity to win
the match. But it was tough. Against the wind, trying to keep it deep. Then she, all of a
sudden, kind of stopped missing for a while. I hung in there. After I think -- you'll
probably tell me best -- four or five, I was finally able to close it out. 
 
Q. Here we are again in the semis. You've been here before, and the French Open. I
suspect you're thinking, "What do I have to do now to get to the final?" What
are you thinking about?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah. You know, first I have to figure out who I'm going to play,
then take it from there. But so far in this tournament, I've played well. I haven't lost a
set. I've been pretty focused out there on what I want to do. But knowing the semifinals
are going to be an extremely tough match, my goal is to try to get to the finals and try
to win it. I'll try my hardest on Friday to see if that happens. 
 
Q. Are you fresh?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think so. I hope so. Like I said, I haven't spent too much time
out on the court, which helped a lot. I've played a lot of matches this summer. I don't
think I'm tired yet of playing, too tired to go on. 
 
Q. Are you concerned with having to play a doubles match later on today?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No. I mean, I have to play doubles today. If I win, I play again
tomorrow. I also came here to try to win the doubles. The scheduling has worked out this
way. Hopefully we can make it fast. Who knows? We'll see what happens. 
 
Q. How is the arm?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It's okay. It was a little tough stopping and starting, stopping and
starting again. But I think if anything, it's pretty much made me concentrate on this
tournament of just making first serves, not going for it too much. Throwing the ball out
in front, stuff that I need to do. It's really kind of helped me concentrate more on other
aspects of my game. Hopefully, it will still be okay on Friday. 
 
Q. Did the conditions today make you play tentatively at all?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, it's tough. I mean, I don't know how strong the wind was, but
when you're with the wind, you can't hit the ball too far or it flies long. You have to
play a little bit careful on one side. On the other side, you have to hit the ball hard,
so it hits the service line. Both sides you have to play very differently. I was able to
take advantage of some of her shorter balls, try to be aggressive sometimes. You never
know what's going to happen out there in the wind. It started to swirl sometimes. I really
wanted to make my first serves, keep the balls in. 
 
Q. What about the rain delay, back and forth, back and forth? Can you talk about the
atmosphere out there?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, it's tough, because you knew it wasn't going to rain for that
long. There weren't any real clouds, it was so windy that you knew it wouldn't stay. It is
tough to go out there, warm up again. That is the hardest part about having to go out
there, hitting again, restarting the match. You never want your momentum to die, if you
have the momentum. I had 3-Love, two breaks. I didn't really like that first rain delay.
The second rain delay, it was Love-1. That was a little bit better. I was able to
hopefully change the momentum at that point. But it's tough. It's hard mentally more than
anything. 
 
Q. Your two possible opponents are very different players. Can you preview what you
would need to do against Williams and then the possibility against Arantxa?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah. Both would be completely different matches. Against Williams,
you try and have to keep the ball deep, not let her be aggressive. We play similar styles
of games in that we're both aggressive. If I can keep the ball deep and keep her off
balance, that would be my game plan there. Against Arantxa, it would a little bit more
like today, trying always to be the aggressor, trying always to attack her. A little bit
faster court would help me a little bit against Arantxa. Hopefully I won't have to think
about that until tomorrow or the next day. 
 
Q. Do you think the weight of your stroke helps you on a day like this?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: What do you mean "the weight"? 
 
Q. The weight.
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: The power? 
 
Q. Power, yes.
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think so. I think it helps against the wind especially. If you can
hit the ball through the wind and really get the ball deep, I think that's kind of when it
comes into play the most. When you're with the wind, if you don't hit the ball that hard,
it's still going pretty hard with the wind. I think I was able to hit through the wind a
lot better today and hold my serve on both sides of the court when it counted. 
 
Q. Was the wind as much a factor last year, do you remember?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, I'm telling you, I woke up this morning, I had nightmares of
my match with Novotna last year. I won 7-6 in the third. The tennis is just not very good.
Last week it wasn't like this, you know. I think last year on a few days it was like this,
but I was watching last night, kind of had a hint that it might not be so good today. But
really, when it's this bad, I mean, I don't remember it being this bad three years ago or
four years ago. You just kind of have to hang in there, and you never know what's going to
happen. 
 
Q. I guess I'm asking whether the stadium --
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think it might be more windier in this new stadium. I don't know
how that's possible. I don't know how you build something like that. It's definitely more
of a factor this year. A couple days last year it was like this, but it is more so now
than it was in years past. 
 
Q. Before you had those nightmares last night, did you, by chance, watch baseball?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I did. I was flipping channel recall back and forth. I saw when he
came up to bat. I'm a baby, I was crying so hard. I thought it was so great. When he saw
his son at the end, that was fabulous. Missed first base. You know, I think it's true,
it's one of those moments you probably won't forget where you were at. It's great. I mean,
he seems like such a cool guy, such a giver back to the community. I was really happy. 
 
Q. What sense of appreciation do you have for the athletic achievement? Unlike many of
the players here, growing up American, following baseball, you've seen baseball players do
different things. What's your feel for what he's done athletically?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I mean, it's amazing. I mean, we were talking in the locker
room, Do you think that's the hardest thing in sports, to hit a home run? We had a few
arguments. Definitely it is one of the toughest things. He makes it look easy. I think all
the bad rap he's gotten about that drug, I think is kind of ridiculous because it's legal
in that sport, and if it's legal in that sport, it is a non-issue to me. If you look at
his arms, he's so strong, he knows where the ball is going, has a perfect swing. It hasn't
been done in 37 years or whatever. I think he's going to break it by a long shot now. 
 
Q. Back to the French Open with Aranxta, different surface of course, one of the big
weapons you needed that day, your service, it wasn't there against her in that match. Have
you gone back and tried to figure out what happened to your serve that day, how do you
avoid losing it in the next semifinal?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No, I didn't go back to that day and think what happened. I didn't
play that well, and she's a very good clay court player. Obviously, she went on to win the
tournament. It was kind of tough that day. But each day is different. Hopefully I will
serve well, that would help me, especially more so against Venus than Arantxa it would be
more important to serve well. You never know what's going to happen if your serve is not
working one day. Maybe can you win it with another aspect of your game. Maybe the serve
will be there. I don't know. 
 
Q. Is there a concern in your preparation that you really haven't been tested at all?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, people say that. But I think for this tournament, this is kind
of what I've needed. I've been struggling with an elbow injury, I've been playing a lot of
matches this summer. I think the more time I'd be out there on the court right now, it
would hurt me. Some tournaments, you need a tough match to get through, not play well,
scrape through, go on to do well. For me, really this is what I needed to do, win my
matches quickly, get out of there, concentrate on the next match. 
 
Q. Have you ever felt more prepared to win a Grand Slam title than you do this time?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: You know, I think coming into this tournament, I definitely have a
lot of confidence winning those three tournaments in California, on a hard court. Gave me
the confidence to come in. I'm trying to get fitter, as each Grand Slam goes by, to get
more fit. Trying to be more relaxed about every match. You know, mentally I feel great.
Physically, I feel pretty good. Hopefully, it will be there Friday. 
 
Q. Do you feel like you're the player to beat on this hard court?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: : Not necessarily. I think that there's still -- I think Hingis
obviously is still No. 1 in the world, played a great match last night. Venus has played
some good tennis so far this tournament. Even Novotna, she hasn't lost only very few times
since Wimbledon. So I don't think like all the focus is on me. 
 
Q. Do you feel less pressure in a way, expectations have never been higher, does it
take some pressure off you?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, expectations are higher. But the tension has been focused on
so many different players this year, that no one's really focused on me in every article
that I'm going to win the tournament. Some articles say I might win; other ones say
Martina might get it back here, Venus, this is her turn. It's really kind of a non-issue.
I mean, if I'm playing well, yeah, I'm going to win it. If I'm not, I'm not going to win
it. That's the case with some of the other players also.  
 
Q. I guess I'm wondering, because you've played so well, gotten yourself in shape,
obviously on a roll on the hard courts, do you actually come in here thinking, "If
it's to be, it's to be, I've done everything I possibly can"?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: That's exactly how I feel. I feel I've done everything I can up to
this point to try and win this tournament. I'm going to give it my best shot. If it
doesn't happen, it doesn't happen. If it happens, that's great. 
 
Q. Is it nice to be asked about not being tested?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I guess (laughter). I haven't. I'm still in. 
 
Q. You talked about Mark McGwire's trot around the bases. Have you thought about your
moment?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Not really. I don't lie awake at night and just see myself winning a
Grand Slam ever. For me, I've worked so hard. If it happens to come, it happens to come.
It will be spontaneous. 
 
Q. The other day you talked about driving yourself from the city out here. What kind of
car are you driving? Do you put in a tape?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, this is what makes it a little nicer. I have a Mercedes CLK
that Mercedes was nice enough to loan me. That was one of the reasons driving out here is
a little nicer. I've been listening to the radio pretty much, and traffic. 
 
Q. Do you view this match coming up being one of the biggest of your career?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Actually, no. I mean, I hate to always put so much pressure on one
match, This is it, this my chance to get to the finals of the Open. I had a shot last
year, maybe I'll have another shot next year. You never know when it's your time. It's
going to be a big match. I hope I play better here than I did at the French in the semis.
But you never know. 
 
Q. Is there anything from last year's appearance that you can use or anything that
you've held onto?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I think last year was my first semifinal. I played Hingis, who
was definitely the dominant player at that time. It was a little bit windy. I was
extremely nervous. I didn't play great. I played okay. But really in the semifinals you
have to be -- you have to play great. Obviously, the other player on the other side of the
net has won just as many matches and is still there. You really have to be concentrated
and focused and play good tennis. That's what I'm going to try and do. 
 
Q. Were you surprised to see Hingis' level of tennis last night?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I saw the end of the match. You could see when she won how happy she
was. Almost like her -- her mom almost liked surprised, which I couldn't figure out.
Obviously she's struggled. I don't know if you'd call it that, the last couple of weeks.
You could just see in her eyes how much the win meant to her. She's had by far the
toughest draw here of any seeded player. She's come through it not playing great tennis.
You know, last night she played great tennis. You never know what happens. When you don't
play well the first week, sometimes it comes on the second week. I'm sure her confidence
will be rising for her next match. 
 
Q. Last year some of the players talked about not really knowing Venus very well. She
hadn't been around much, maybe kept to herself a little bit. A year later, do you feel you
know her any better, or other players on the tour?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Like her game or as a person? 
 
Q. As a person.
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Not really. I think there's certain players that don't have that
outgoing personality. Steffi Graf being one. I don't think anybody knows anything about
her. I think Venus and Serena pretty much stick to themselves also. So, no, I don't, know,
you know, what she likes to do or anything. 
 
Q. Have you given any thought about No. 1?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: You know, it's still 700 or 800 points. The gap was closed a couple
weeks ago. I think Martina would have had to lose earlier here and I think I would have
had to win. I don't think it's an issue here anymore. 
 
Q. If you win this, beat anybody but Hingis in the final, you're No. 1.
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I didn't know that. No, I haven't thought about it then (laughter). 
 
Q. Any thought about it?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Not really. I mean, you know, really I'm just trying to win the
tournament here. I haven't given that a thought. It's pretty much more important for me to
try and win the tournament than to do the ranking. 
 
Q. Talk about what you've done different physically to get yourself prepared for this
tournament.
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I think, you know, I've spent a lot more hours on the court
this whole year. That's helped me physically and even helped me with my game. I think that
I've played a lot of matches this summer, I've won a lot, which gave me a lot of
confidence. Took a week off before New Haven, went to East Hampton, had a great time,
rested a lot, practiced a lot, had a great time. I've really just run a lot of sprints,
served a lot to try to get my serve better, just to try to be mentally stronger out there. 
 
Q. What sort of regard do you have for Coetzer? If somebody came into that stadium
today and never saw a tennis match, they would say, How can this be allowed, why is that
large person allowed to beat up that little kid? What kind of regard do you have for her?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It's tennis. There's no requirements to play, no age requirements,
no height requirement, no weight requirement. Tennis is tennis. I've always thought it's
great, she's five feet, 5'1", in the Top 10, and she's done great. She's made
definitely the most of her potential. But I can't help it that I'm a lot taller than her
and I hit the ball harder. You know, you go out there and play the ball. That's all you
can do. Thanks. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT