US OPEN
September 7, 1998
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Is this special in light of Wimbledon? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Let me think about that. I guess so. I mean, you know, I didn't -- I
wasn't happy when I lost to her at Wimbledon. But I've played her a lot of times before,
and I know she's a great, great player. Hard courts is a different story for myself. I
didn't want to go out in the Round of 16 at the US Open quite yet. 
 
Q. So you feel like you have an extra advantage on this surface?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: For sure, yeah. I think, you know, if you look at my record against
her, the only two times I've lost to her have been on grass. I feel like I'm a little bit
more comfortable on the hard courts against Tauziat. I felt like I'm playing well. So I
was -- I didn't want to be in any danger out there. You know, I had a few chances in the
second set that I didn't take advantage of, but I really closed it out in the last game.
I'm pretty happy with, you know, closing out the match the way I did it. 
 
Q. Did you feel that you were in danger at all out there?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: A couple times. I mean, when she starts serving well, you have to
really concentrate to hold your serve. A couple times I think I was down a lot of
breakpoints, only got broken once, which is great. Yeah, the second set definitely got a
little closer: Up 3-1, let it get back to 3-All. Like I said, the last game was really
great. I was able to put it away the first point, 40-Love. That's hopefully what you can
do. 
 
Q. What do you do better on the hard courts than she did.
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think on grass it's a lot easier to come to the net. Your approach
shots stay a lot lower. On the hard courts, I don't have to bend as much as on the grass.
She's just definitely more comfortable on the grass than I am. On the hard courts, I'm
probably more comfortable than she is. I love playing on them. You get a higher bounce
which helps me. You know, I can get her serve back a little easier on the hard court. 
 
Q. Did you watch McGwire's 61st?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I missed it. I saw it on the replay. Then I watched his next three
at-bats. Nothing happened, I don't think. Did it happen? 
 
Q. No.
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I thought maybe I missed extra innings or something. That was
exciting. I mean, I was in the referee's office when Sampras and Agassi were there. They
were both like staring at the TVs also. It's a big day. 
 
Q. Are you enjoying following the home run chase?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah. I mean, I follow every sport pretty closely. I watch Sports
Center, all that kind of stuff. I'm a big McGwire fan. Why are you laughing? 
 
Q. Because we work for Sports Center.
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Do you really (laughter). 
 
Q. Yes.
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: So I think he's a great guy. All the stories I've read about him,
he's a really big guy with a nice heart. I hope he does it. 
 
Q. What do you think about CNN?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I watch that sports show too (laughter). 
 
Q. How about Outside Shot Putting Magazine?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Really (laughter)? 
 
Q. Has it been pretty routine, the first week?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah. I mean, for me, playing so many matches this summer, I'm
really happy that each match has been fairly quick. Tonight was a lot tougher than the
other matches. I think even with the score, it's a little misleading. I mean, I guess
routine. I'm playing well, concentrating very well. I'm taking advantage of the
opportunities that were given to me. My next match with Coetzer is going to be tough.
She's going to get a lot of balls back. I think if I play aggressive, the way I've been
doing, really take advantage, hopefully I'll get to the semis. 
 
Q. Could you take a moment and comment on a comment that you were quoted on in a recent
article, you said, "I never like confrontation. When a situation gets tense, my
reaction isn't to fight. If it looks like you want it that bad, fine, take it. I'm out of
here."
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, in terms of confrontations, no, I don't like confrontations.
If someone was to come up and start a fight, I'd just walk away. I think a little bit of
that was taken out of meaning in terms after couple years ago, that was a situation with
one player when I was playing against them. Sometimes, like if someone you could tell was
just trying so hard, I'd be like, " Oh." But that was four years ago. I'm a much
better competitor now than I've ever been. You know, I think I want it just as bad as
everybody else does now. In terms of getting into a fight, I'm not going to do that. 
 
Q. Who was the player?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I swear, it was probably like, you know -- I mean, wasn't like a
specific situation. But probably like playing one of the top players like Sanchez. It
wasn't really bad. Just someone that was trying after everything. Probably Sanchez, not in
a bad sense, like I didn't like her, but just she was trying for everything. I was
probably missing. 
 
Q. Are you at the point where you have a fire in the belly, a burning desire, or do you
think you're a stronger competitor now? Can you describe it?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think I'm a much stronger competitor. I think I kind of realize
that if I was playing tennis, I want to do it and be out there and win. I've worked so
hard now, the last couple years, that I'm not going to go out there and say, "I don't
want to win today." Something I've concentrated on. I mean, mentally I'm getting
stronger and physically getting stronger. You know, I want this tournament just as bad as
the other seven players now left in it. 
 
Q. Do you hope that you continue this low profile? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah. I mean, I get asked this every time. I always say, "I
like it." 
 
Q. Like tonight, there was Agassi on one court, then the Kournikova-Sanchez, those
stadiums were full. Your stadium --
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I mean, when I've played on those courts, they have been relatively
full. But it's an exciting day. It rained. You move some of those big matches outside, I
have total respect for that. I can't change anything. I like being kind of almost like the
quiet underdog in a sense, knowing I can go about my business. I'm always still in the
second week these days. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT