US OPEN
September 5, 1998
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Do you subscribe to the theory the quicker the match the better?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: For me right now, yeah. You know, I think through the summer, I've
played enough matches. I feel like, you know, physically I'm kind of in need of not too
long of matches. You know, I'm pretty happy with it. I couldn't be happier, actually, with
the way it's gone.

Q. Talk about playing Nathalie?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I've played her so many times in my career. Both times I lost to her
have been on grass. Every other surface, I've always won. But I know it's going to be
tough. These courts are playing fast, which she likes. She's going to be trying to come in
all the time. I think it really depends on how she serves, because she can get really,
really hot with her serve. You know, I'm going to be able -- I'm going to need to return
well, hopefully see a lot of second serves. But hopefully if I'm hitting my groundies
well, I'm attacking the ball, hopefully can I get some revenge for Wimbledon.

Q. Last year you moved into your first Grand Slam semifinal here. Any particular reason
you were so successful here and then carrying it through to this year are you going to be
able to do it?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah. I think last year here, you know, I pulled out some really
tight matches. In the third round I played Patty Schnyder 1-6, 6-1, 6-4, then (inaudible).
You know, once I think I kind of got through humps and got through those close matches
here last year, my performance at the Grand Slams have gone way up. I feel a lot -- I
guess I don't feel so much pressure anymore now that I reached the semifinals once. Of
course, I'd love to get to the finals now and win one. I don't feel the pressure on me
that "I can't play well in Grand Slams" is the label on me anymore. So I kind of
just -- I think I'm playing a lot better every Grand Slam, kind of more relaxed about it.
You know, just trying to go all the way now.

Q. Did you feel that you did have that label, that you couldn't play well in Grand
Slams?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Kind of. I mean, I never played well in Grand Slams. It wasn't
necessarily a label so much as I knew it was true. You know, in Grand Slams, you have to
get through the days where you don't play well. Inevitably in those 14 days, you're not
going to play well. That's what I kind of had to learn to do. Last year here, I kind of
got through some close matches, got through when I wasn't playing so great. You know, when
the US Open was over, I was really happy, I got to the semis, I didn't get through to the
finals, but I thought that was one big step for myself. Now I'm back here again, and
hopefully the next step is to get to the finals.

Q. What do you take away from today's match?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: What do I take away?

Q. Yes.

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, you know, I take away -- I think this girl is a good player. I
think the court suited me a lot because it was fast. I played very solid tennis. I didn't
play great. I did what I had to do. I played -- didn't make too many errors, and I got off
the court fast. To me, that was the biggest thing.

Q. Are you where you want to be or where you need to be, comfortable moving ahead in
the tournament?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think so. I mean, I feel very happy with my game. I feel like I'm
doing everything well. I don't think I have any major flaws right now in it. Just trying
to stay relaxed, trying to be healthy, trying to win -- I've played a lot of matches this
summer, trying to win, keep winning. Try not to spend too many more minutes than I have to
on the court. The matches are obviously going to get a lot tougher now that the second
week starts. I'm just going to hope to continue playing as well as I have.

Q. Are you staying in the city?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah. I drive myself, though. That's one different thing.

Q. You drive yourself?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah.

Q. Do you ever get caught in traffic?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: You know, so far I've been pretty lucky. But I really like being
able to drive yourself. You know, you feel like you're in control and you can just talk
amongst yourselves with your family. Relaxes me I think.

Q. You have to be in the driver's seat?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I'm driving. A couple times I let my coach drive, but about
85% of the time I'm driving.

Q. Have you ever thought about going out to the Island and staying?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: You know, I did. I actually stayed out there one year with Mary Joe.
She used to stay at this place called Glen Cove, at a resort there. I tried that. But it
can be pretty far also. I like the city. My family's there. I've got some friends in the
city now, so I like it.

Q. How long have you done this, where you've driven?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: This is my third year.

Q. So how -- first of all, what route do you take?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Normally I take the Triboro Bridge. But if I hear there's traffic on
the radio, which I listen, to I take the Midtown Tunnel.

Q. How do we compare like the Triboro and Midtown to 405?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It's not much better. But I swear, so far we've been -- especially
this weekend, it's great. It only takes 15 minutes on Labor Day weekend, no traffic. You
know, it's been lucky this year. So far so good.

Q. Do you look at it as kind of a way to warm up in the car?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I just think of it a lot as I love to drive. I mean, it's stupid,
but I like to drive. Sometimes you get -- sometimes you get a little nervous when someone
takes the way you don't like. This way it's just really relaxing. 

Q. It seems like it would be the opposite, though.

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah. My coach has a hard time when I drive, a little aggressive. I
like it a lot more. I don't know.

Q. It's interesting because a lot of people find driving in New York to be very
relaxing (laughter).

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I'm not driving cross town, though. You've got to understand. I've
just getting on F.D.R. and I'm out.

Q. To milk this a little bit more. You know that McEnroe and Fleming --

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I've heard that story. I leave at 10:15, so I give myself so much
time before, it's ridiculous.

Q. Something like the 13 top seeds, 14 of the top 16, are all going into the Round of
16. Is that just in the ozone? What do you think that says?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It's been weird because the other Grand Slams, there's been a lot of
upsets, a lot of seeds that haven't made it, a lot of girls that have come through the
draw unseeded. I think here, you know, I really don't know what it is. I think top players
are playing well. I think players like Novotna, Hingis, they had very tough draws, they've
pulled through them, Spirlea had a tough draw from Round 1. I don't know what the reason
is, but it just seems like the players who are expected to win so far are winning. Maybe
some of the players that used to be floaters are now seeded.

Q. How important was the summer you had? You've beaten a lot of players. What is your
confidence like?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: This is the best I felt obviously coming into the US Open. With
winning those tournaments, I also won a lot of close matches, beat a lot of top players.
That gives you a lot of confidence, especially going into this big tournament. But pretty
much when the tournament starts, no one kind of remembers what's gone on. You have to just
start over again. I think my game is there. My game has been very solid now for a couple
months in a row. You just kind of look to keep going through the tournament, play some
great matches the second week.

Q. Is there any concern that you may have peaked a little bit early?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, I hope not. You can't really control too much when you peak.
If you're playing well, you kind of just have to go with it. I think I've played well the
whole summer. I don't want to ever take that back. I think what I did, I was very happy
with what I've done. You know, I'm going to keep trying to go here. Inevitably there's
going to be a bad day. Hopefully you play through it. Hopefully, you know, next week will
be my best week.

Q. You have this really great record in California. With that in mind, are you going to
get behind this move to move the US Open?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Really (laughter). It should be played in LA. No. I think just
because I grew up there, with everything, from the weather, to the courts, everything, I
feel very comfortable there. But I'm getting better here on the east coast.

Q. How special would it be to win -- for this to be your first Grand Slam, at home in
the US?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I've always said if I'd ever win one, I'd want to win it here.
Growing up, I've always watched this one, for whatever reason. You know, my family only
comes to this one every year. You know, I like playing here. It's difficult, but it's
exciting. It's a challenge. You can never really control which one you'd win. If I had my
choice, it would definitely be here in New York, if I could win one.

Q. Is it less of a challenge now, not the tennis part of it, but because of the new
stadium, the facility has been upgraded?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It's so much easier. I think that's also what helped me last year. I
mean, the facilities are so great now. It's so easy on a player. The transportation is
right here. You used to have to walk 200 yards before you got out of the tennis center. So
that does make it easier. It's a little tough sometimes with the crowd. Sometimes you
think they're just there to have dinner and to talk and not really watch tennis. But
definitely the new facilities have made it easier on everybody.

Q. Give you a parking spot?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, that front lot. But I don't understand. That parking lot is
always full. I always have to park on that dirt lot, and there's no way all those are for
players. It's ridiculous.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT