US OPEN
September 1, 1998
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   Sometimes the first round is the most important in a tournament, and I thought I played pretty well today.  The courts -- everyone has been saying the courts are playing fast, which I think favors my game a lot.  So I was pretty happy with the way things went. 
 

Q.  I know you had to have your wrist treated in New Haven.  How has that been since then?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   It has been okay.  It has been my elbow.  It comes and goes.  It has been sore a lot throughout the summer, but really flared up last week, but so far, last couple of days it has been pretty good.  I think matches like this will help it maybe stay less inflamed throughout the week, and I will keep taking care of it, and hopefully it won't bother me at all. 
 

Q.  Is it one of those things, does it travel down?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   It has been.  It has been kind of moving all over my arm.  For a couple of weeks now, so it is kind of hard to really pinpoint it and really cure it right away because it seems to always be moving around.  But like I said, I will just -- you know, hopefully have short matches and get it worked on. 
 

Q.  It is kind of -- you look around, see how many reporters are here right now.  Does that -- what do you think about that?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   I really didn't think about it.  No, I mean -- 
 

Q.  You don't care?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   Not really. 
 

Q.  Probably getting tired of us anyway?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   I was almost hoping I would sneak out here without doing press, so when Reven came back in -- 
 

Q.  Can you talk a little bit about what you saw of Steffi Graf last week and how much of a threat you think she is here?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   I think she will always be a threat.  Even though she lost few times in the summer and maybe didn't play so well.  You know she has the ability to play very well.  I watched her play a little bit today and you thought she was playing pretty well  again.  And she is going to be very tough to beat especially on this fast court.  I mean, her balls are going to stay very low, her slice is very effective on this court and she is such a great athlete that I think she definitely has a legitimate chance of winning. 
 

Q.  You have probably played her more than anybody else since she came back.  Have you noticed any big difference between the first time and second time?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   Last week I think she was definitely more consistent.  The last -- two other times I played her, she gave me some free points with some errors.  I think she is returning a little bit better and definitely, you know, cut down on her errors a lot. 
 

Q.  You have been working on your serve, I noticed in Connecticut and here again.  Are you pleased with the way it is progressing?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   Yeah, I mean, I think my serve has been a big part of why I have done well for the last couple of weeks or months.  And, you know, it is one of those things where you know you always want to get it better in this day of the game because the girls do return so well.  And I have been pleased.  I made a few changes that I think have worked out a lot.  And I have definitely been holding my serve a lot more. 
 

Q.  Did you sort of arrive at the Open feeling any different than previous years when coming here because you are one of the favorites here now?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   Not really too different. I feel like I have a chance to win here and maybe a couple of times in the past I didn't think that, but I definitely feel like I could win this tournament this year based on my results this year so far in hard court.  It is obviously going to be very difficult, but it is attainable, hopefully.  I had a great summer, even losing last week it really didn't hurt my confidence at all because I knew Steffi was playing.  I was glad to get a few matches in and come here and practice for a few days.  And, just try and keep going. 
 

Q.  What do you think of your draw?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   I haven't looked too far ahead so don't say anything.  McNeil is actually going to be, I think, very tough the next rounds on a fast court she is going to be coming in a lot.  I played her here last year, won in two sets, but she is one of those players that is always coming in, so she is always putting pressure on you, so I am definitely going to have to try and keep her at the baseline and pass well. So after that I am not too sure. 
 

Q.  I won't tell.
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   Okay, thanks.  
 

Q.  During your winning streak, was there any one match that gave you more confidence?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   I really think in Stanford, the first one of the three beating Graf 6-4 in the third and beating Williams I think 6-4 in the third pulling out two really close matches on my way to winning the title really kind of helped me through the rest of the way.  Every time then I got into a close match I was really calm and that is, you know, the most important thing to be out there.  I played Seles in San Diego 7-5 in the third, there were some close matches. Sometimes you win some of those and sometimes you lose. Those couple of weeks I played the big points well and was able to pull those out and more than anything, I think confidence plays a role at this level than -- than ability. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT