PILOT PEN INTERNATIONAL
August 28, 1998
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How is your wrist? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, it was pretty sore there for a while. Actually the first time
in my career I have called the trainer so, that is about as bad as it was. Pretty much --
I pretty much figured in the second set I'd lose and I just started hitting my shots more
and trying not to worry about it and it loosened up a bit - I think just because I figured
I had nothing to lose then. Then all of a sudden I was back in the match probably should
have won the second set and that is that. But I am happy I could come back in the second
set. Fight off a matchpoint come up and get ahead. I played -- she started playing great,
again when she was down in the tiebreak, I played problem 1 or 2 loose points that was it,
so, you know that is that. 
 
Q. How did you hurt it?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It has been a little sore last couple of days, actually last couple
of weeks, and all of a sudden this morning when I got up, I don't know, maybe I did
something last night I didn't feel it. But, you know, it has been an ongoing thing. It
just hasn't been this bad and flared up as bad ever. Hopefully I will get a few days rest
now. 
 
Q. Is that what made you lose the racket, the pain, when the racket flew from your
hand?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I don't know. Might of just slipped out because I was sweating so
much. A lot of times at impact on the serve or forehand it would be a lot of pain, but I
don't think I lost the racket because of that. 
 
Q. Are you concerned about your wrist injury going into the Open?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Sure, I mean, it is not a good thing, but I have been battling this
problem for the last couple of weeks and some days are good; some days are bad, and good
thing is today it ended up loosening up a bit. I just hope that it keeps doing that and I
have a couple of days off now. I will give it a lot of rest a lot of treatment and, you
know, I don't think it will be a problem I am not sure. I hope not. 
 
Q. Up to 6-3, 5-2 Steffi played just nearly flawless tennis. How impressed were you
with that and frankly did you think that she sort of choked (sic) at that point?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: She was playing great. She wasn't making any hardly errors and still
going for her shots. She was forcing me to make errors that I didn't want to make. But I
thought she got a bit tight because all of a sudden errors started coming in that weren't
there. I kept telling myself to hang in, hang in. All of a sudden I get up in the tiebreak
and then she didn't miss too much anymore. So, you know, she is obviously a great
champion, she knows how to play. She is probably struggling a little bit by closing out
matches because the last couple of weeks have been tough on her. But in the end, she did
it today and that is what counts. 
 
Q. Anyway to gauge how much your wrist injury affected this match?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No, not really because really end of the second set I wasn't
thinking about it much, and just trying to play. It was bothering my serve a bit in the
first set. I don't think I held serve maybe hardly at all. But other than that, I thought
she played pretty well and that is probably more of a reason. 
 
Q. You had a lot of trouble holding serve. You lost your first five service games?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah. 
 
Q. Why was that?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Probably because my arm was sore and probably because she is
returning well. 
 
Q. Do you think the wrist was a factor in the outcome actually or was it just Steffi's
great play?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think he just asked that. 
 
Q. Was the wrist --
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: He just asked that. 
 
Q. I am sorry. I just missed it.
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I said in the second set not too much. I mean,, you know, she
started, you know, I tried to forget about it and play and it was definitely bothering me
in the first set. I really have never tried to deal with an injury too much on the court
before and it was getting my concentration away, in the second set even when I was started
losing I was forgetting about it more and trying to have fun with it. So really in the end
now I don't think so. 
 
Q. Can you tell the difference in when she played couple of weeks ago when you played
here at Stanford, and then tonight? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think I played a little bit better in Stanford, a little more
consistent which probably made her make more errors there. But I mean, she was playing
pretty solid tonight; there was nothing too vulnerable. But again, I didn't really make
her play that bad. I didn't force the issue probably enough, but her game has definitely
gone up and I can't imagine she played this well when she lost last week Serna so I think
she is getting better. 
 
Q. What did the trainer tell you?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: She just said, you know, come back and see you after the match. Keep
working it out and then she told me, you know, to be a little bit careful, obviously
because a tournament is coming up, but it was hard, we only had two minutes, I don't know,
2 1/2 minutes, and I haven't seen her yet. I told her I would be right back in. 
 
Q. Right before you went back out you kind of made a -- we thought something is wrong.
You made a grimace. Did it enter your mind "I shouldn't play?"
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think -- it was funny when I was down 2-Love and -- I thought at
3-Love, maybe I would retire, but I never retired in my match and I never called the
trainer, but then, you know, after I won that game I got to 2-1, I think that is when I
decided if I am going to stay out here I have got to forget about it or I have got to stop
and really from that point on, I tried not to think about it and I think when you
concentrate on everything, but that, it gets better even when I started to lose, I still
thought I was playing a little bit better than in the first set. Then my game started
getting better. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT