PILOT PEN INTERNATIONAL
August 26, 1998
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. A tough match? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I am exhausted. 
 
Q. Got to be somewhat disappointing. You are obviously looking forward to play. Does a
delay affect preparation at all mentally?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I came here to play. I didn't come here to get a default so I am
little disappointed. The reason I am here is to play the tournament, to get matches. But
there is nothing you can do about it. I mean, you can't get too upset, and now just get
ready for tomorrow. The one good thing is that I could have been here all night playing
and it would have hurt me for tomorrow. You know, that is probably the best thing. I can
come home, rest and get ready for a tough match tomorrow. 
 
Q. You have made, I guess, a serious commitment to get yourself physically fit. You
have gone from No. 5 in the world to No. 2. Talk about this year and commitments you have
made towards moving up from into the Top 5 elite class?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I really started a couple years ago, practicing more and training
harder and really making a full-time commitment. But unfortunately, things don't happen
overnight. So it took a couple of months for the hard work to start paying off, and then
with that, your confidence has to build to win matches. It doesn't just come from being in
better shape. It has been a couple of years, but I think I am just now kind of over the
hill and winning matches now. I am feeling better about myself on the court. I am a lot
more confident. I think all of that is a combination of a couple of years now of hard
work, and I am going to continue to do it. So in a couple of more years I will be even
better. 
 
Q. What caused you to make the commitment? Were you just not satisfied with how you
were playing or your progress up the ladder ranking-wise?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think it was also maturity also. Just getting a little bit older
and realizing -- probably I didn't realize 'til I was 19 or 20 that this was actually
really what I wanted to do. When I first turned pro, I was in the Top-10 after my first
year, but still going to school and not really giving it full-time effort. And I think
once I graduated high school, spent a couple of months with playing, that is kind of when
I -- after a year or so, I had kind of decided this is my career. I am really going to try
my hardest. I know I can be a great player. When I quit, I don't want to have all these
doubts. I don't want to say: Well, God, if only I had done this or what if I had done
that. That kind of caused me to work harder. But I think it really had to come from within
myself. I don't think that people telling me, you know, you have got to do this, you have
got to do that would have helped. It really had to be my own decision. 
 
Q. You came here a couple of years ago for an exhibition. Now it is a full-fledged
event. How does it differ for you this time around?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: When I came out for the Open ceremonies on Monday night, I thought
it was a great size crowd. 6,500 or so on the first night is a great crowd. Unfortunately,
I haven't really seen too many matches because I haven't been at the site too much and I
really would have liked to play tonight. It seems to me like the fans are real excited to
have women here. They have wanted another tournament here for a long time and you just
kind have to see how the week goes and assess it after the tournament. 
 
Q. Do you feel it is a big disadvantage not playing tonight?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I talked about that a little bit. I think that I came here to
play. I wanted to play matches and it is tough. Anke, my next opponent, already played two
matches here. I haven't played one. That is a huge disadvantage. The one positive is that
I could have potentially been here very, very late tonight playing. This way I can get out
of here early and go rest, I practiced earlier this morning. I got to hit a little bit
tonight. So tennis-wise, I feel okay, but match-wise I might be a little off. 
 
Q. I think this time in Atlanta last year, you became an aunt?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah. 
 
Q. How is your niece?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: She is doing great. She just turned one years old and she is
arriving Tuesday for the US Open. Yeah, that will be really fun. It has been great. That
has actually been a high point of my whole year watching her grow and spending a lot of
time with her so it will be a lot of fun in New York. 
 
Q. Can you ask to maybe play one of the first matches tomorrow or is that out of your
hands?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Because I am not playing doubles and Anke is not playing doubles we
will probably play later in the day. People that have to play the singles and the doubles
have to kind of get the show on the road earlier so they can play the doubles. The good
thing with not playing doubles, it really doesn't matter when you play during the day
because you don't have too many matches to play and I don't care what time of day I play.
Hopefully it doesn't rain so I can play at some point and so it won't be Friday and I
haven't played a match. I will just take whatever happens. 
 
Q. Three tournaments in a row winning, speak a little bit about that.
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, it was a fantastic run in California; one that could have
never imagined. I think finally I thought I was playing well all through May and June and
at Wimbledon in July, and when Wimbledon was over, I thought I played well, but I was
happy to get back home and onto the hard court season in California. I feel best at
California because I grew up there. I am used to all the conditions and it was great in
front of my whole family all the three weeks, a lot of friends there, and it was really
unbelievable. 
 
Q. Who do you think is the favorite at the US Open and why?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Geez. I don't think there is actually one clear-cut favorite. I have
said for the last week I think there is probably about six or seven players that I think
they are almost all equal favorites. Martina hasn't had such a dominating season this year
and probably going into the US Open with less confidence than earlier in the year. You
have got Venus Williams who has played great this year. Monica Seles just won the Canadian
Open. Steffi coming back, you can never count her out. Myself, I have had a great summer.
I think this is probably the most open Grand Slam that I have competed in in the last --
in the five years that I have been playing. 
 
Q. When you were here, I guess it was 1994, I think you were 18. Kind of shy with the
media. Seems like you are a lot more open now. I mean, is that coming along with maturity?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think so. It is tough to play when you are younger. You know, you
have to get used to everything that goes around with being a professional and being in the
spotlight. I think I have matured a lot in the last couple of years and, you know, I am a
lot more outgoing anyways. You just get used to it probably. 
 
Q. Obviously it is nice to advance into the quarters without having to play a match.
But any thoughts on maybe a limited number of matches that you are going to get in before
the US Open?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It could be good and bad. It could be good in the fact that now at
the most I only play three matches and maybe then you won't get so tired. But, like I
said, I came here to play. And it is unfortunate. But you can only look ahead now. I mean,
hopefully I will get three more matches in at the most. We will see what happens tomorrow. 
 
Q. Any thoughts on Huber your opponent tomorrow?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I think that is very tough. Anke has been in the Top-10 for
many, many years. She has been out with an injury. She is a player you don't really know
what to expect if she is -- obviously she is playing well this week. But, you know, she
has been out, so I haven't really seen her play for six months or so. But I know she hits
the ball hard. She takes the ball early. It is a very tough match. She is one of those
players that you wouldn't want to play because she has done so well for so long. 
 
Q. But you have played so well these last few weeks. You have beaten Seles twice, Graf,
Hingis, Venus, you have beaten almost anybody. It is kind of: It doesn't make any
difference who you go up against, you have that confidence you can beat anybody it is not
come --
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Probably, but I am the type of player before every match I will get
nervous no matter who my opponent was. And I think that is great. I am always giving my
opponent respect and always looking forward to a tough match. I know with Anke it is going
to be a very tough match, but I know if I play well, I can win and I am going to win. But,
I know also I have to play very well to win. And that is the excitement of tennis, it is
only yourself out there. You can only do what you, as a person, can do on that day. So
hopefully you can win the match when you are not playing well and hopefully you play well
and win. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT