ACURA CLASSIC
August 16, 1998
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Good match today.

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, it was a lot of different conditions than what I have been
used to, I think the last three matches I have been playing at night. In the daytime - it
was a little bit windier actually and a little bit the ball travels a little bit faster, I
thought. I thought some of my balls were maybe sailing in the beginning, but I really kind
of just clicked it on, I guess. And, all of a sudden I was reading her shots better. I was
hitting the ball deeper and I just felt like they were all going in for a while there.

Q. Did you feel like you were on top of her throughout the match?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, kind of. I was up that break, 4-2 in the first; then I lost
four games in a row or whatever, three games, five games in a row. And I thought she
started to pick her up her game a little bit more and not make any errors. But I felt like
if I kept attacking the ball and was in position, I'd have a good chance. She gets so many
balls back and kind of doesn't make too many errors at times.

Q. The key would be to hold your serve. You served well today.

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I thought I served well. My serves really, really almost won
me the last three tournaments, I think, because I have been able to hold serve and not
struggle too much on too many service games. Therefore, you have more energy and you can
be a little bit more relaxed when you are returning. So I am really happy with the way
that has come along. Against Seles, against Hingis, you have to serve well because they
return well.

Q. (Inaudible.)

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think actually not until the second set was over, you are never
really sure; especially when I was up in the first set and was up a break, I wanted to
make sure I really got that second set in; not get broken back like I did in the first. Of
course getting up the first break in the third helped, only getting broken once, I think,
in the whole match was really the key and just staying on top of her at the end.

Q. Are you playing Montreal or Atlanta?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I am not playing Montreal. I am supposed to play New Haven the week
after, but everyone has been saying (inaudible) -- you can't really control when your best
tennis comes out and with three wins in a row, it is just great. I mean, it is so exciting
and it means a lot to me, especially in California. I am going to take it easy this week.
Work out a lot; probably not hit as many balls; get ready for the US Open; play a few
matches hopefully in New Haven and get used to the heat. That is the most important thing,
the humidity on the east coast; just hope that my game is still there in a couple of
weeks.

Q. Do you have more confidence right now than at any other point?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I mean, last fall I felt pretty good; won a few tournaments in
a row. Really on the hard court it is a little bit more grueling than indoors, you have to
run down some more balls because it is slower. I just feel so calm and in control out
there on the court. I don't feel ever rushed. I don't feel -- I am not getting upset like
I used to get. And I just feel very -- I think that is just confidence, very at ease and
just knowing that I can do it and it doesn't matter.

Q. Did that make a different in your confidence level having the crowd -- (inaudible)--

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: They were definitely on my side today. A lot of times they cheer for
the underdog always and they probably wanted to see maybe upsetting the No. 1. But it was
great when I won the second set. I think a lot of them stood up and was really applauding.
That made me feel really good. They wanted to see more tennis and it is great. I mean, you
live -- this is why we practice so hard, to get in a moment like this, win or lose, when
the crowd is in it and an exciting match, you always have to be happy to be a part of it.

Q. When you walked past Martina in the hall -- (Inaudible.)

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No, I mean, we get along great. Before the match we were in the same
waiting room for 20 minutes just talking about other stuff. We kid each other on the court
and stuff like that, but I mean, she is, to me, I think a great role model and a
tremendous player and we like joking with each other, but it is nothing serious.

Q. Last four games, at another point in your career, might that have discouraged you? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Maybe, I mean, I got up the early break and I wanted to keep it
going and I just wasn't able to do that. I guess I did get broken twice there to lose the
set, so, you know, I think I was able to turn it around early in the second set and get my
confidence back by holding serve; then breaking her fairly early and just winning some
more points and I think that is just from winning a lot of matches this year and last
couple of weeks. And just knowing that you are never out of a match. Just to hang in
there.

Q. How much fun was that last point?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: (Laughter) I know. I think everyone thought I had won it before I
won it (Inaudible.) Lob went over my head and bounced back in the court. It is great. I
mean, getting burned on drop shots used to be a big problem of mine the last year or six
years of my career, and the last couple of days I have been really able to get to them.
And, you know, it is great to win some matches on some winners.

Q. Better conditioning really helped pull this one out?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Maybe. I feel like I was a little bit faster and sometimes being
faster is also just realizing what is going on the court; where the ball might go. But,
you know, I didn't feel I wasn't tired at all. Fairly quick three-set match, but I felt
like I was in the points trying to run some balls down, but trying to also be aggressive
and my body held up for the last three weeks playing a ton of matches.

Q. (Inaudible.)

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, she served well. I think people always underestimated her
serve. She might not hit it 110, but she places it where she wants it to go. She was going
for her second serve, I think, a little bit more today because she knew I was going to
maybe try and take advantage of that. You can't really read where her serve is going. She
hits everyone pretty good and, you know, I have never thought her serve was, you know, big
as a weapon as people right - I mean, as big a liability as people write about it.

Q. Did you have stretches like that (Inaudible.)

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Probably not. I mean, I just -- even with the doubles, the first two
weeks was great. To win two tournaments in a row, back-to-back singles and doubles, and to
be able to really keep my concentration and my focus and really, you know, not get tired
and not get cranky and just stay calm out there was, you know, whether you win or lose, it
was just -- I thought I handled this whole situation great and, you know, I just feel
really confident and calm.

Q. Any better feeling than to be out there on a Sunday afternoon -- (Inaudible.)

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I kept thinking because we are having this party at my
sister's house, she lives like two hours away from here. I kept thinking so glad I am not
playing doubles because the whole family has to leave. It is great to be out there on a
Sunday, you know, it is great to be in the finals. To get to the finals, that means you
played well all week regardless of what the scores were and you are there and I was really
happy. My whole family has been here all week. I have had just a great time with them,
hanging out with them at night and now we all get to go and have fun the rest of the day.

Q. How extra satisfying is it where you won and who you beat as opposed to the last few
weeks?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I think I have beaten just about -- just about; not every one,
but all the top players the last couple of weeks and when I won Stanford, to be Graf and
Williams was really exciting. Last week to beat Monica for the first time in San Diego -
even to play Pierce, she was hurt, I can't do anything about that. But, here again, to
beat the No. 1 player in the world, where I used to come and watch as a little girl and to
win three in a row, I mean, this is a great just ending for the whole month.

Q. The fact that you didn't play doubles, did that help you; may have hurt her?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No, it never hurts a player. She got a default one round. She didn't
have to play too long yesterday either. I did that the last two weeks. For me, it was
great because I played about 20 matches in two weeks and I didn't want to play Monday or
Tuesday of this week. But I never think that will hurt unless you are playing just too
much.

Q. You got a real high percentage of your serves in. Were you backing off just a little
bit to make sure that you didn't --

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Not really. I think my serve has just been really relaxed and been
going in. First set I served a lot of doubles faults. I think -- I knew she was going to
try and attack. I was a bit nervous on my second serve, but once I started holding serve
again, I relaxed a bit and got my second serves in and hit them a little bit better. No, I
was going for them against her. It was a little bit more windy today, so you had to be a
little bit more careful with your top. Like I said, I think my serve really held up the
last few weeks.

Q. (Inaudible.) Is she more beatable now than she was last year?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I mean, I guess yes because she is losing more, but when you go out
there, you are not thinking: Oh, this is going to be, easy she is beatable. You just think
she is No. 1. She is going to play tough, and, you know you are going to have to play well
to win that match no matter what surface it is, where it is, you know, I never -- I think
Martina Hingis is a great player and every time I played her you know you have to play
well.

Q. Martina is No. 1. Given last three weeks and today, do you feel like No. 1?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, No. 1 is 52 weeks of the player's result. I have had three
great weeks, but Martina has had about 40 greater weeks than I have had. I feel like I am
playing great tennis. I feel like I can beat anybody now, but the rankings are a
reflection of a whole year's work. Maybe I will start in July and maybe, you know, pick it
up now for the next six months I will be No. 1, I don't know.

Q. How many cars have you won in your career?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: This is the only car I have ever won in my whole career.

Q. What do you do with this one?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Gosh, I am going to keep it. It has not even come out yet. They are
not releasing it until September the guy said, so, you know, it is great -- I mean, I have
always wanted to win. Last year -- I mean, Monica got the care, I was so bummed because I
wanted it, but I don't know, I can't wait to see it and bring it home. I don't know when I
can.

Q. Talk about what you think of Andrea and the kids at camp and I know that you have
bought a lot of items-- (inaudible)?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It is just amazing, phenomenal how -- I mean, she is such a role
model to players like myself and every player who plays who, you know, this game is so
selfish and this game is so, you know, just one-dimensional and to give up, you know,
everything to just help these kids that have cancer and to do everything she can for them,
I have always donated a lot of money all throughout the year and, you know, those are
items I really wanted to get so I thought this is great. Then I heard my mom bought
another item later that night. We talk about the charity we want to give to and that is
the No. 1 charity I always want to give to. I am trying to go up there in December to go
to Aspen to her new ranch and see the kids.

Q. Any session with the kids?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I have never done it. I am a little bit sensitive -- certain things
upset me a lot. One of my best friends works in a hospital for kids. She is going to take
me up there with Andrea the other counselors. I am going to have another good time. Monica
went and she told me it was the best thing she ever did.

Q. (Inaudible.) Peoples always talk it is easier when you are chasing No. 1 than when
you are (inaudible) is there anything to (Inaudible.)--

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I mean, I think it is harder to be 1. What Pete Sampras has done for
the last six years is probably the hardest thing a player ever has to do. It is tough to
always stay up there and to always be -- I am guessing, to always be motivated to win
every tournament, but it is fun now. I mean, it is closes the gap, but it is still a
little bit ways away. For me, the chase is there, but I am not playing and winning these
tournaments to become No. 1. I am playing these tournaments to win these tournaments. I am
going to play the US Open to win my first Grand Slam not to possibly be 1, but, you know,
you kind of have to see when you get there.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT