BANK OF THE WEST CLASSIC
August 2, 1998
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, it was such a weird match.  She was on a roll, up a set, 4-2.  Really Venus had the match in hand.  She really had she started making a lot more balls on the court, just playing a little bit smart, beginning of the third.  I started playing much better in the third, started getting my game back.

Q.  It looked like in the third set, you looked a little flat in the beginning.  Looked like when you got down, that you turned it up a notch.  Did you feel more determined?  What helped you turn it around?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I mean, I thought she came out playing pretty well.  She came out serving pretty well the first game or two of the third.  I was a little down after the second set.  I just started firing up.  When I got the one break, I knew I was back in the match.  You know, I was able to go from there.  It's tough.  She played very well.  She made some  errors.  You know, if you don't really get a rhythm, she'll hit an ace.  I never really felt like we had long rallies, I was hitting the ball well.  You just took what you could get.

Q.  How did the heat affect you?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I felt it a lot yesterday. Might have been hotter today, but I think the points were a lot more grueling yesterday.  I think the match might have been a little longer.  But I felt better today.

Q.  How much did the taking the break play today?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It's a little frustrating.  I know she's done it a lot of times before in the past.  The second one was a little frustrating.  For some reason, I think you should be only -- I don't think it's fair for everybody to be taking it right before their opponent's serve.  Seems like that's what always happens.  It's part of the game.  Luckily, I was able to get it back in the third.

Q.  How do you recover after you get a bad call?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I thought it was going out, it probably went in, because it did skid.  You just have to come back.  I mean, the calls -- you're always going to get bad calls during the week, you're going to get good calls.  It's tough on a big point.  Sometimes you want the ball to go out, whatever.  I was able to hold my serve well  in the last game, had a couple match points.  I was able to win.

Q.  When you play a slow hard court in your home state, do you feel like you're the best player in the world?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It feels like that, I mean, especially on the hard courts, Indian Wells, LA.  Up here, I've always done consistently well.  It's what I feel great on.  I grew up on it.  I like the hard courts a little bit slow.  I don't like them too fast.  I feel like I can move better on them.  I definitely think I'm one of the toughest players to beat.

Q.  Do you feel like you're developing a rivalry with Venus?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Not really.  I mean, I'm five years older.  I've played her probably around four, five times.  I'm not exactly sure.  But it's not like we met in the finals of Grand Slams, met in huge, huge matches.  I enjoy playing her.  It's a good challenge.  She's definitely going to be an unbelievable player in a couple years.  She already is, and she's only 17.  Sometimes that's exciting to play players like that.

Q.  After what you've done the past two days, you (inaudible)?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah.  I mean, I haven't played  in heat in a long time.  Kind of yesterday the heat wave set in.  My body wasn't ready for it.  I feel physically good.  I feel like I'm in good shape.  The Open, I haven't still thought about too much. You're always working to get better for The Open, but it's still a month away.  I have a lot of the tournaments in between.  I think my game is at a pretty high level right now.

Q.  (Inaudible)?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I mean, I don't know.  I mean, winning the Olympics is the greatest possible thing you could ever experience in your career.  If I ever win a Grand Slam, I'll tell you what the difference is (laughter).

Q.  You've almost won (inaudible)?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  So much relief when it was over.  Two just really difficult long matches in a row, you know, yesterday, again today.  It's over.  So happy I won two really close matches against two great players.  You know, I haven't necessarily thought about winning this tournament.  I'm just happy to win the first tournament of the hard court season.  Great feeling to win it.

Q.  Is this the kind of match two or three years ago you wouldn't have been able to come back from 3-Love? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Maybe.  I definitely let it slip a little bit in the second set, let something bother me.  Maybe I shouldn't have won the third.  I fought really hard to get back in the match, was able to pull it out.  I'm in better shape, I was able to last out there. Mentally, I was still very positive at the end.  You know, I wanted to win it.  I really buckled down and started playing better at the end of the third set.

Q.  How do you feel having the crowd support you that much?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It's fun.  I mean, sometimes it works either way.  Sometimes when the crowd's against you, you play great, if you're really fired up to win.  Here in California, I love playing.  The crowd is always very supportive of me.  I think people try really hard.  In the last few days, I've really put in a great effort.  I think they for Venus, too.  It wasn't totally one-sided.  As a player, you get used to dealing with everybody.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT