THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 25, 1998
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
VERONIQUE MARCHAL:  Questions for Lindsay. 
   

Q. Lindsay, what was the difference between the second and third set?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I think she got off to a good start in the third set.  You know, it was tough to play with the wind.  She definitely handled it better.  The third set, I think she got a lot more aggressive, especially more aggressive than myself.  I thought I played probably a bit too passive. That was the difference.  She really came up with some good shots. 
   

Q. Looked a little frustrated.  Were the conditions bothering you?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I think just everything.  I didn't think I was playing that well.  The -- I won the second set.  All of a sudden she just started playing better.  I didn't feel like I could do anything out there.  So finally 4-1, 5-1 in the third, I just got real  frustrated with myself. 
   

Q. How frustrating were the drop volleys?  That seemed to be pretty effective.
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  She hits the ball so hard.  I was definitely waiting behind the baseline to try to get her balls back because they were coming so hard.  It's a very good play.  I saw her do it against Seles the other day.  It was working.  Definitely didn't look for it enough.  Also with the wind, it was a little tricky moving around a little bit.  It was a very smart shot to play today. 
   

Q. Even with the wind, does that make a difference?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It's definitely more effective when she's against the wind.  The wind also was going sideways, I think more than anything, through the court.  You know, that was probably a big fault of mine for not picking up on it.  It's hard.  When she's hitting the ball so hard, you can't stand on the baseline. 
   

Q. What about Anna's game gives you the most trouble? What do you fear the most about playing her?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I think she does everything pretty well.  I think she serves well.  She comes into the net a lot more than most girls do.  The only thing is that she can be a little inconsistent.  I think she's cutting that down a lot.  I  think she's getting a lot more consistent with her balls than she used to be.  She hits the ball hard.  She's an aggressive player.  When she's not making errors, she's going to be tough to beat.  Her results this year have gotten a lot better than last year.  I think with experience, not going for so much all the time has helped her a lot. 
   

Q. Do you think your serve let you down a little bit?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Probably.  The topspin was going all over the place.  I probably needed to serve a few more first serves in to hold my serve, get a chance to break her.  I think I was just broken too much. 
   

Q. How confident did you feel at the start of the third set?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I felt pretty confident.  But, you know, she played a great first game to break me, hit a few winners.  I think that first game was important.  If I kept the momentum going, that would have helped a lot.  She hit some good shots, I made a lot of errors.  It just turned real fast.  I think it was the first two games.  Then the rest of the match, she kind of had the momentum going. 
   

Q. Lindsay, are you resigned to the fact that you  might not make it to No. 1?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No. 
   

Q. Are you happy with your game overall, like how you're playing this year?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah.  I've had a lot of consistent results.  Unfortunately, I lost the match today. But I think I'm improving.  I didn't feel like I played great, but I thought she played very well for the conditions.  You know, you just keep looking to go on.  That's all I can do.  I think I've had a good year so far.  I'll just keep trying to go on.  Fortunately there's another tournament next week. We'll see what happens. 
   

Q. Are there more good players around now in terms of the level of quality players?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I think so.  You know, if you look at the draw, you could have gotten Kournikova in the second round.  I think there's a lot more depth in the game.  I think there's a lot of girls now who have a chance to beat the top players, to win the tournament.  Like we saw yesterday, Serena Williams almost beating Martina.  It's just a lot tougher tour than even three years ago.  It also makes it a little bit more exciting.  You never quite know.  It's not always set in stone who is going to get to the semis now.  I think some of these younger girls will break through and start winning tournaments now. 
   

Q. Does that change your approach to a tournament, knowing that you might get a tough match in the second round, whereas you might not get as tough a match?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It doesn't change the approach in terms of preparation.  You know, all these tournaments, especially with the new ranking system from the first round, second round, have been tough draws.  I don't think you study the draws as much anymore.  I just look at who my first couple opponents are, first two maybe, just know it's probably going to be tough. 
   

Q. What do you think about Marcelo Rios, will he get up to the new No. 1 this coming Sunday?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  He's got a couple matches to go.  That will be shocking if he does get to No. 1.  I don't know.  I guess he's got a very good chance.  I saw him play at Indian Wells.  It will be kind of weird to have a No. 1 player who didn't win a Grand Slam, but I think he can do it. 
   

Q. What do you think about his person?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I mean, I've heard stories  about him.  But I don't know him.  I've never had any personal experience with him.  I'll probably let that one go (laughter). 
   

Q. Lindsay, did that unnerve you a little bit in the first set, in the ninth game, you started to serve, you found out she was holding you up?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I mean, it didn't bother me for the whole match.  People do that.  Maybe she's taking her time, maybe she's trying to slow me down.  It's just part of the game.  I think everyone's doing stuff these days to try to turn, throw the other person off. 
   

Q. Turned into a big game.
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Was that 4-All? 
   

Q. She broke you to go up 5-4.
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I don't think that's the reason I was broken.  I hope not. 
   

Q. Lindsay, I just read an article that claimed or said that Anna hits harder than anybody on the tour.  Would you quibble with that?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah.  I don't think she's -- I don't think she's the hardest hitter.  Certain shots, if she sets up for one forehand, she just clocks it, that shot could be.  But shot for shot, I don't think she's necessarily the hardest hitter.  Who knows.  I think -- I don't think (laughter). 
   

Q. Lindsay, you briefly mentioned the ranking system. Does it bother you that they've changed the ranking system twice in the last two years?  Has it changed the way you play?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No.  I think what we have now -- I think you have to change it a little bit to see what works.  I think this one we have now is pretty perfect, as perfect as you're going to get for a ranking system.  Every player has been playing more.  The top players are playing more often each other.  The fields are a lot stronger.  With a cap of 18, no one can play 40 tournaments and be ranked higher because they've played more.  I think it's done great wonders for the game. 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Thanks. 
   

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT