STATE FARM EVERT CUP
March 11, 1998
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Did you feel like you had too many weapons for her today? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, I just think it was a matter of she made -- started off maybe a little bit nervous, made a lot of errors in the beginning.  She definitely cut them down the second set.  At the end, I think I was able to, you know, just keep a few more balls in and win the points, maybe just tough her out a little bit at the end.  I don't feel I played great today.  It's good to come out with a win in two sets. 
 

Q.  How would you say you're playing now as opposed to your best ever?  Do you feel you're right up there?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No.  I don't feel -- I feel like I've gotten a lot more things to fall back on when I'm not playing well.  I can run down a few more balls, maybe hold my serve a little bit easier.  I haven't felt like I've played fantastic yet this tournament.  You never know when that can change.  You know, just keep going for it. 
 

Q.  Do you think that's a good sign that you're not peaking yet?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It's always great when you can play really well for a while.  You never know when it comes in tennis.  I could go back out there today and play unbelievable.  You just never know when it happens.  But, you know, I plan on playing my best tomorrow, playing very well.  Looking to win again. 
 

Q.  Lindsay, I was a little surprised to hear you say on TV that you thought you were the underdog to Steffi, considering that she hasn't been playing hardly at all.  Is that a mental thing because of the matches you remember from before?  When you saw her the other day, you thought, "She's playing a hundred percent"?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I don't feel like I have much to lose.  When I saw the draw, I was actually a little bit happy because, you know, it's just one of those players you don't feel like you have anything to lose.  She's been out for a while, but she's still playing -- she's going to play great.  She's one of the best players ever.  I've beaten her once before, gotten very close a few times.  It's not like I think I'm going to lose.  I think I can win.  But I'm just saying I don't feel the  pressure like, "I've got to win." 
 

Q.  Do you feel she's become kind of a sentimental favorite with all she's been through?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Probably.  I mean, she should. She's gone through a lot.  She's played the game for a long time, won, I think, twenty-one Grand Slam titles.  I'm sure she's a favorite.  I don't mean this the wrong way.  When players get older, been around more, the fans start to appreciate them a little more. 
 

Q.  Have you sensed, not even just in the comeback, but even over the past three or four years when you're at tournaments with her, the attitude is changing to a certain extent that people who might have been not anti-Steffi before, but almost cold to her --
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  You mean the fans? 
 

Q.  Yes.
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Probably.  I think when someone like that is out for a while, the fans are just so happy to see them back.  I think fans are kind of fickle.  When Steffi's dominating and dominating, they always want someone new to come up.  When she gets out of the game, they want her to come back and start winning again.  I think it goes in streaks.  I think the fans are happy she's back.  It's just another great presence and  unbelievable player back on our tour. 
 

Q.  You made the remark here yesterday, which I thought made sense, that you didn't think Steffi would have entered this tournament if she didn't think she could win it.  When Steffi was reminded of your remark, she said, "She doesn't know me very well, that's way off."  How would you respond to Steffi's response?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, for me, I would never see a player like that entering a tournament and just being happy to lose first round.  I mean, that would be like, you know, I don't know, just a player who is used to winning coming back and coming back bad and losing first round.  I think anyone who has been good is only going to come back if they're playing well.  I think maybe she's kind of blowing me off a little bit.  But I think it's pretty true. 
 

Q.  When you talk about, she's just yet another person now on the Tour, at this moment in history, there's so many interesting people and terrific players on the women's side, every match you look at there's somebody who is a great story or a great whatever, whereas it seems like the men are kind of looking everywhere to come up with a similar -- someone to challenge Pete Sampras both on the court and in terms of interest, how do you see women's tennis now?  In your mind, especially at a tournament like this where both  men and women are here, in your mind is this the premiere circuit in terms of interest?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, I don't know about that. I mean three years ago everyone was saying the women's tour is so bad, no new players coming up.  I think it just goes in cycles.  The next year the men could have so many great players coming up.  But fans were sick of three years ago Steffi winning every tournament.  Maybe they want someone in there to challenge Sampras back again because he just seems to be so good.  So I don't think that's necessarily true.  I think the men have great drawing power, and I think it's just a matter of time, especially with Agassi coming back so well, before some new faces pop up and everyone is like, "Men's tennis is the greatest again."  I don't think it's anything to worry about. 
 

Q.  Is there still the stylistic difference between men and women?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yes.  I think they're two separate sports, almost. 
 

Q.  Even you who dominated out there today, as much as someone can dominate, there were still long rallies.
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It's just different games, you know.  The men have such great serves.  They're such great athletes.  You know, it's so hard to compare.  Like we  talked about the other day, I think any guy on the Pro Tour would beat any girl on the women's tour.  That's just the way it is.  It doesn't mean our game is any less fun to watch or any worse to play.  It's just different games. 
 

Q.  You were talking about the fans before.  Don't you think because you're playing actually very close to home that that's going to help you in some sense?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It could.  But, I mean, you know, there are certain players on the Tour which are super stars fans are always going to love.  That's Monica, Steffi, Andre and Pete.  It's tough when you play someone who is just a great player.  I'm sure I'll have some fans rooting for me support, but I think she will, too. 
 

Q.  If Hingis and Venus win today, which is probable, we'll have four real big names in the semis.  Do you consider yourself and Steffi and Venus and Martina the best four players in women's tennis?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, you have to consider Martina no matter.  What I think Venus and myself have improved in the last year, have gotten to where we are two of the best players in the game.  Obviously, Steffi coming back from injury is one of the greatest players ever.  But I think so far this year probably the three of the four that have been playing the best on the Tour, and of course Steffi is just coming back.  She'll always be one of  the great players. 
 

Q.  Do you eliminate Seles from that consideration?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No.  But she just hasn't played in quite awhile.  She is definitely another one who is always going to be one of the greatest players.  You know, unfortunately she hasn't been playing.  I think we all wish her the best at coming back. 
 

Q.  Lindsay, how hard do you think it's going to be for her to try to come back again?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, you would think pretty tough.  Last time she came back, she came back strong at the beginning and then, you know, kind of didn't do as well for the next two years.  She had a lot of injuries.  You know, I think whenever something as tragic as what's happening to her right now, what happened to her in the past, is always so difficult to come back.  Who knows? Maybe she won't come back.  I have no idea.  I hope she can.  I hope everything works out. 
 

Q.  Have you spoken to her?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Not really.  She faxed me after I won Tokyo, congratulating me.  I wrote her back a thank you.  I haven't really been able to find her.  I think she's kind of hiding out. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT