CHASE CHAMPIONSHIPS OF THE COREL WTA TOUR
November 22, 1997
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT-JANA NOVOTNA/Nathalie Tauziat-Alexandra Fusai 
 6-7, 6-3, 6-2 
   
 An interview with 
   
 & 
 
 
Q.  Jana, how does it feel to win the doubles, and now you have the opportunity to sweep the singles and doubles? 
 
JANA NOVOTNA:   Well, it definitely feels great.  I played very good singles match.  And I was a bit tired, but I knew that Lindsay was going to help me out.  It was great to come out and have fun and enjoy it and to win it.  I'm real sorry it took us three sets, I guess it wasn't necessary, but things happen. And I'm glad we won at the end. 
 

Q.  Lindsay, what is it about the chemistry that makes it a successful team and will you be playing in the future?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   Well, I think Jana is probably the best serve and volleyer in women's tennis and that helps in finding a doubles partner.  We've had a good year this year.  And winning both times in New  York was very special. 
 

Q.  Jana, how do you feel about playing Mary Pierce tomorrow?  You never lost to her, are you confident?
 
JANA NOVOTNA:   I never did?  That's great. No, definitely I have a pretty good record against Mary.  And I have the game to beat her, so hopefully I will be fit tomorrow and play some good tennis and see what happens.  I guess Mary is playing pretty good tennis and she raised to the occasion, and she can be a danger, but hopefully I can be better tomorrow. 
 

Q.  What were your expectations when you pared together earlier in the year?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   To win every tournament.  We only won four. 
 
JANA NOVOTNA:   You know, our main goal, I think when we started to play together was just to have a good time and have fun and just play well, and that's what I had, for sure. 
 

Q.  You played a lot of tennis today, but you seem very fit, do you think that will have any impact tomorrow if it is a long match?
 
JANA NOVOTNA:   I hope not, because it's not that late yet and I will have plenty of time to recover.  So hopefully as I said I'm fit enough to play  long matches and I'm pretty much used to it playing singles and doubles, so it shouldn't be a problem. 
 

Q.  What will you do tonight?
 
JANA NOVOTNA:   I sleep.  I go have a massage, probably have something to eat and go to bed early, that's for sure.  It's been a long week and late nights. 
 

Q.  How much an advantage do you think -- she's talking about how she missed two months this fall, and she's feeling a lot fresher than everybody who has been playing?
 
JANA NOVOTNA:   I think she's feeling fresher, but she didn't have that much match practice, and I'm sure that definitely and always on a big occasion that can play a big role.  So hopefully I will use the advantage of playing well, during the whole year, and playing a lot of matches and having some good wins.  And I can use that as an advantage. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT