US OPEN
September 5, 1997
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What was your plan going into the match, and why didn't it work?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: My plan coming in was to, you know, try and attack her and be
aggressive. But, you know, I never really felt that I really got into that game too much.
I felt like a lot of times I backed up on balls and didn't really go for each shot that I
wanted to go for. She played extremely well. She kept the ball very deep on both sides,
against the wind and with the wind. It was very tough to ever feel like I was in an
offensive position.

Q. Do you have a cold? Are you suffering from something?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, a couple days. That didn't - I don't think - affect me too
much.

Q. The first point of the fifth game, second set, the long, long point you guys had,
she ran down the lob. 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Good point.

Q. Sort of stood at the net shaking your head.

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I was just laughing. I thought it was a funny point. Good shots in
it; too good.

Q. What makes her so tough?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, I think today, you know, one side you're against the wind, one
side you're with the wind. I never felt like I was with the wind. I always felt like she
was backing me up with some good shots. She's got great hands and she's extremely fast.
Today, I think she played quite well, kept the ball very, very deep.

Q. What was the big difference then between this time and LA?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, I think in LA she gave me a lot more shorter balls that I
could attack on. Today, I always felt not, like I said, in an offensive position. I felt
like I was kind of backing up. She always hit the ball deeper than I thought she was going
to hit it.

Q. All those dropshots?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: She dropshotted well today.

Q. When she is on her game, does anybody beat her? You know what it takes to beat her.

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, probably pretty tough to beat her when she's playing her best.

Q. What are good hands? Can you explain what you mean?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, a couple times I hit some really good returns when she served
and volleyed. She volleys extremely well, soft hands. She hit goods dropshots. A lot of
times when she's on the run, she comes up with a good shot because she's so loose in the
hands and because she has such good hand-eye coordination. Just very soft hands, I think.

Q. Did you get tired at all today, Lindsay?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I'm not tired. I didn't feel a hundred percent today. I feel a
little worn down, for whatever reason. But I tried my hardest. You know, like I said, she
was moving me all over the place. That's not really the position I like to be in. You
know, next time I've got to try and take a more offensive approach again.

Q. Were you looking to come in a lot?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Not so much come in, but just be moving forward. She passes
extremely well, so that was going to be tough. But, you know, like I said, she kept the
ball very deep today. 

Q. Can you compare her at all to like a Graf or Seles when they were at their best?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I don't think I ever played Graf or Seles when they were at their
best. You know, in the last two years, I don't think that has been the prime time for Graf
or Seles. But I don't even know if today was her best, you know. I don't think any of us
know. You know, she can be extremely tough. You know, my coming in today that I was going
to have to play very well. If I played very well, it was still going to be a tough match.
You know, she has the capability of killing people, too, you know. I thought a little bit
like with Monica at the Lipton Final. When I won the first game, I was like, "This is
a good start." Maybe that won't happen.

Q. How much better is her serve now than, let's say, even last year?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think it's a lot better. I think she's able to win a few more free
points off her first serve. She's a little bit more consistent with it, definitely.

Q. Did she keep you back even on the second serve?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think she served her second serve pretty well today. I never felt
that great on attacking it. So I think today she also served pretty well.

Q. Coming into this, you were one or two people that were mentioned as people who could
beat her. Is it over?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: What do you mean?

Q. Is it over now? Can either Venus or Spirlea?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think it's going to be pretty tough for Martina to lose the final.
I don't think she's come close to losing to either one of those two before. You never
know. You know, maybe Venus or Irina will rise to the occasion. I would count on Martina
probably winning.

Q. Lindsay, that is what makes her so scary, that you win one game --

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: You kind of do that against anyone. I know still when I play Monica,
it's always a relief to get the first game under your belt, you know. Whenever you play, I
think, Graf, Seles or Hingis, you know, there's always the chance of getting killed. I
mean, it's just -- maybe people think that way when they play me. I don't know. It's
always nice to win one of the first couple games. You never want to get down 3-Love,
whatever.

Q. Given your history against Hingis, which is close match, why would you think that
way?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I wasn't thinking that way. I'm just saying, whenever I play, I'm
always happy when I win one of the first two games. That's it. I mean, I still thought I
had a chance. I was just saying it's very nice to get the first game under your belt.

Q. What does her record in the Grand Slams of this year, reaching all four Finals,
either tell you or show you as another player?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Tells you that she rises to the occasion at the big tournaments,
that she wants these titles probably more than any. You know, I think overall, looking at
her total record this year, she's gotten to every final but one. That just shows you how
dominant of a player she's been this year, how tough to beat she is.

Q. Two questions, Lindsay. I think earlier in the year you guys played and she said to
you at the coin toss "Do you want me to serve or break you?" First of all, did
she say anything like that today?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No. I think Martina is great. I think she has the best attitude of
any top player that's ever been there. She joked and said, "Tomorrow, I'm not going
to ask you what you want to do." I think she has the best attitude. A couple times
today, she hit great shots. She was laughing with me with them. But, you know, she said
that yesterday. "That wasn't such good luck next time, so I'll just choose."

Q. When she says something like that, why doesn't it tick everybody off?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Take everybody off?

Q. Tick everybody off. Why doesn't that make you mad?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Because she's so funny about it, has such a great attitude about it.
Just knowing her in the locker room probably, knowing her -- I played doubles with her
once. She's just really funny about that. When she hits a bad shot, she'll say, "God,
that was atrocious," whatever. She is just very honest, funny about it. She's got a
great sense of humor. I think if something like that came from Steffi, everybody would be,
"Wow," she doesn't joke around much. Martina has a light personality.

Q. Or Venus? It doesn't come off the same way?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Right. They just don't have that happy-go-lucky attitude in the
locker room as Martina does.

Q. Do you have a guess as to whether she'll be able to maintain that?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think so. I mean, she just seems like she takes everything not so
seriously. I'd imagine probably.

Q. If it gets to the point where she continues to win, continues to dominate the
circuit, do you think then it might be tougher to take that kind of --

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No. I think it's done in fun, good humor. She doesn't mean anything
bad by her comments. I think they're funny. They might tick someone else off.

Q. You said you didn't play Steffi at her peak.

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Right. I don't think. I think she was at her peak in the early '90s.
Maybe, I don't know.

Q. Let's go back and sort of revisit the question. The best you've seen Steffi on
court, versus the best you've seen Martina, who would you pick and why?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Oh, gee. I don't know. I have no idea. I'm not going to answer that
one. I think they're both great players in their own right. Different styles. It would be
a very, very, very close match.

Q. Given that you considered this to be a good end or near end of your season, what
does that do to you mentally looking ahead to the next season? Just how does that affect
you to do well at the end of a season?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: You know, for me, I think I've proven this summer that I've played
very well for a couple weeks, consistently. It's going to give me a lot of confidence. I'm
glad, you know, I've got a couple weeks off now because I played a lot of straight weeks,
as has everybody else. Going into this fall, you know, I should take with me a lot of
confidence. The players that I lost to this summer were Hingis, Seles, Conchita, some
pretty tough players. So I'm really going to be looking to keep doing consistently well,
keeping a positive attitude like I have been, just keep fighting until you get to the
chance to beat the top players.

Q. Lindsay, given her age, how well adjusted she is, the way she's playing, how
dominant do you think she's going to be the next few years? Is it a little bit scary for
the rest of the Tour?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, I think she's going to be very dominant. I think it's going to
be real interesting next year to see if she can defend all these titles. She's had such a
great year. So I'm interested to see that. But I think as long as she enjoys it like she
is, she's going to keep winning. She loves to play, she loves to learn new shots, she
loves to compete. I don't see her losing that. I think she's going to be pretty dominant
the next couple years.

Q. What is the weakest part of her game?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, I think the weakest part was maybe concentration. I think
she's definitely gotten over that. She's pretty focused now all the time. She's just very
solid. There's nothing wrong, you know, with her game. Her forehand used to be a little
weaker. She's definitely improved that over the last couple months. Everything's pretty
solid.

Q. Lindsay, you broke her pretty well through that second set. Seemed like it was going
back and forth. Given that you were able to break her, are you feeling a little bit like
you underachieved a bit, that you could have taken her to a third set?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah. I thought I played, you know, not so great today. You know, I
didn't serve very well for whatever reason, you know. You've got to be able to hold your
serve, first and foremost, in tennis matches, give yourself an opportunity or chance to
break. By no means do I think I underachieved. I tried my hardest. Things weren't there
today. If I had played a little bit better, definitely could have gone a little closer.
But I don't know what to do about that.

Q. Lindsay, the run that you've had these two weeks, do you think this is as good as
you've played throughout your career? What would you like to do to pick your game, the
level of your game, up one more notch? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah. I think the last couple weeks is definitely the most
consistent I've been. I think I fought out a couple matches that maybe I would have lost
in the past. I just have been able to beat a lot players being solid, not giving in. Today
was a little disappointing because, you know, the last couple days I don't think I served
that well, whether it was the wind or whether I just got a little bit out of rhythm on my
serve. That's a little disappointing. But I served well all summer. Think my serve has
improved. I'm going to look to keep improving that, just keep trying to get faster. You
know, I really have to be on the offensive to play well. Just keep looking to improve the
things like movement, getting more balls back, keep being aggressive.

Q. Given this was your first Grand Slam semifinal, were you little overwhelmed by the
occasion or did it just seem like another match?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, I wasn't overwhelmed, I think. But it was definitely an
important match. I was trying to play well. I just thought I was a little bit flat today.
Things like that happen. I tried to be a little bit aggressive in the beginning. It
worked. I made a few errors. Then I got a little tight because I didn't want to make
errors out there. That hurt me. On top of that, she's playing well. It's not a winning
situation to be in.

Q. Lindsay, just something you said, I think might be an odd question to you, but
players say a lot that they're afraid to make errors, they don't go to the net. Is it
embarrassing? Obviously it's damaging in the game because you might lose a point. Is there
an element of self-consciousness that you don't want to be making errors in front of
people?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, you know, my type of game is high risk. I need to go for it to
win. I felt like today, you know, when I was going for it, I thought on the side with the
wind, my balls were going to hit the fence. I thought, "Oh, my God, that is a little
embarrassing." I knew I had to make errors. Looking back, I probably didn't take
enough risks. That's why the result was the way it is. Maybe if I can get to a few more
Grand Slam big opportunities, I'll do it differently hopefully.

Q. Venus or Irina today?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Gosh, they're both playing pretty well. I mean, I don't like to bet
against other players, but I think Venus has a very good chance. I think her big serve, I
think she's going to attack Irina's backhand. I think she could be in her first Grand Slam
final.

Q. How surprising or shocking is it to look up and see her in a semifinal after so
little professional Tour experience?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It is quite amazing. I saw her play a couple matches. I saw her play
a little bit at the French. She was just a little more erratic. It seems like she's really
toned down her errors, been a lot more consistent. The other night she served
unbelievable. It's tough to beat a girl that's serving that well. I think it's quite
amazing she's really just thrown out a lot of errors from her game.

Q. Is Martina the best retriever you've ever played? How does she compare to Sanchez?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It's different. I don't think she gets enough credit for her speed,
I really don't. She gets almost every ball. She puts them back pretty deep. It's different
because she's also offensive. You don't consider her a retriever like a Coetzer or a
Sanchez. She's definitely up there with them, the fastest players.

Q. More than any other opponent, do you find yourself amazed at some of the shots that
she makes? Do you find yourself admiring her more so than any other opponent? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It's a different type of, I don't know, amazement, what the word is.
You play Monica, and you think you have her on her back foot, she comes up with the
greatest, hardest shot you've ever seen. Martina, you think you have her on the run, she
hit as drop volley. Like I said, I think she just has great hands. A couple times I hit
some great returns when I served and volleyed, she volleyed them very, very well. I think
she's an all-around great player.

Q. You've had an incredibly busy schedule over the summer, now some time off. Aside
from just resting and recovery, what is the one thing you're looking forward to do?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I get to see my niece. My first niece was born about 14 days ago. I
haven't even seen her.

Q. Is she named Martina also?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: My sister named her Kennedy in hopes that she'd marry one
(laughter). No, her name is Kennedy, but I can't wait to meet her, I guess.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT