US OPEN
September 3, 1997
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How the hell did you ever win that? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I know (laughter). I think both of us, you can say it to either one
of us, if it had happened. Just luck. Someone asked me what the turning point was. I said
there wasn't one until the ball went by her at match point. So many ups and downs with the
wind, just played havoc on the ball. It was difficult to play. I'm just really lucky I got
through, I think. 
 
Q. How does it feel to be in your first Grand Slam semi?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It feels good. No matter what happened, it was just great to win
that match. But definitely very exciting. You know, whatever happens now is a bonus, I
guess. I'm going to play two great players coming up. I'll just see what happens. 
 
Q. When you were up 4-1 in the third, it began to slip, did your mind wander back to
the French Open?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It didn't at all today. She started playing a little bit better. I
started making a few errors. It was so tough for me to get up 4-1. There were so many
chances for both of us early in the third. I was able to win those. Then she started
winning the close ones. You know, for some reason, I never got down on myself today. I
never thought I was out of it. I think that was the turning point today, you know.
Receiving at 5-4, I still stayed positive. Just was able to get back into the match and
then take it from there. 
 
Q. You had 25 breakpoints today.
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Really? 
 
Q. Does it seem ridiculous that you weren't converting? I think you won six out of 25.
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: That's pathetic (laughter). I didn't know that. Wow, I didn't know
that. You know, it was a little difficult. She served extremely well, much better than I
thought in the wind. I thought I'd get a few more double-faults, a few more free points,
but I didn't. You know, I seemed to play very aggressive. Then when I would have the
breakpoint, I wouldn't hit it, come in, maybe wait for her to make the error. I'll
definitely have to work on that for the next match, wow.  
 
Q. Ever have anything like that in your career, where you had so many break chances?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I don't think so. I don't know, but I would hope not (laughter). 
 
Q. Would you be able to describe a little bit just sort of the emotional ups and downs
that were going on?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah. I was able to get it back to 4-All in the second set. You
know, for some reason, I was having trouble holding with the wind. She was having trouble
holding against the wind. That was really frustrating. Normally you can hold your serve
with the wind. I couldn't do that today. The toss was going all around. I got it back to
4-All, got broken right away with the wind. That's obviously discouraging. But I got into
the third. The first couple games, like I said, were very close. I was down breakpoints in
the first game, held. Then had a lot of breakpoints, finally broke. It was just
up-and-down. I think almost every game I can remember in the third went to deuce. I just
was trying to hang in there. I played a good game to break her to get to 5-All in the
third. She played a good game to hold. The tiebreak was just up-and-down again. 
 
Q. Lindsay, she had a match point on an angled backhand volley. One of those balls
where you don't even know what's going to happen till you turn your head and see where it
lands?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It was an approach. She hadn't missed one backhand approach the
whole match. The wind was actually going this way; she hit the ball this way (indicating).
That was very lucky for me that the wind didn't bring that ball back in. I thought I was
gone at that point. I didn't think that was going out. I was very shocked when it did go
out. 
 
Q. Heart in your mouth?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I don't know. It's hard to explain. I felt pretty calm. When it was
out, I was like, "She hasn't missed that yet this match. That's pretty lucky." 
 
Q. Did you injure your leg, foot or ankle, injure yourself in any way today?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No. 
 
Q. Really?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: (Shaking head.) Why? 
 
Q. It looked like it at one point. Then you seemed to slow down for a little while.
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I don't think so. I don't feel it yet. 
 
Q. That's fine. You were rubbing your knee. 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Oh, I know what that was. I hit myself on the serve. I know exactly
what happened now, what you're talking about. I hit a serve, and I hit myself on the knee
with my racquet. It was so sore for like two games, but it went away. It's just one of
those things when you first do it, it's sore. I know what you're talking about. Sorry. 
 
Q. You do that much?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No. 
 
Q. I do it all the time (laughter).
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think the wind definitely took my toss places today that it's
never gone before. So I think when I reached, I just (indicating). It was bad. 
 
Q. You're kind of hoarse today. Having a cold?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I have a little bit of a cold, but luckily it hasn't affected
me physically. It's just coughing and a little congestion. 
 
Q. Before Jana's only match point, you had four breakpoints. When she got to match
point, were you kind of kicking yourself?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I was. But, you know, at 4-3, when I had a couple breakpoints, she
came up with some great forehands, you know. She was up that game. Then she missed some
forehands. I got a breakpoint. I thought, "I'm going to play her forehand," and
she hits a winner. Then I thought "I'm going to play her forehand," she hits
another winner. Sometimes she came up with some great shots. Then at match point, I wasn't
really kicking myself because I didn't feel like I was doing that much wrong. I mean, I
let a few opportunities slip at 4-1, but that's about it. Like I said, I was just trying
to hang in there. I got lucky she missed that. 
 
Q. What kind of things were you doing on your serve, if anything, to compensate for the
wind?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I was trying to shorten the motion a bit. When you're against the
wind, throw it farther in front. When you're with the wind, throw it farther behind you,
because it will naturally drift that way. She served much, much better than I did today in
the wind. Like I say, I didn't feel I could go for it with the wind. Against the wind, I
felt like I was hitting it and it was going nowhere and she was coming in as she pleased.
Hopefully, it gets better the next couple days, the wind. 
 
Q. Lindsay, when you say that whatever happens from now on is a bonus, I don't want to
take you too literally, but isn't the just-happy-to-be-here attitude something you have to
fight?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Right now, at this moment, I'm very happy to be alive. Tomorrow,
I'll take a different approach to it, I'm sure. When you win a match like this, you know,
for the first couple hours, you have to be happy that you won it. That's the way I feel
right now. I'm going to see who I play tonight. Tomorrow I'll take it again and forget
about it today. As of this moment, right now, I'm extremely happy to be here (laughter). 
 
Q. Have there been times in your career where you wouldn't have been sufficiently fit
to get through a two and a half hour battle like that?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Probably. I felt pretty good at the end. I didn't realize it was
that long until a little bit earlier someone told me. I was like, "Oh, that's long,
especially for me." Also I don't think I would have pulled this out a couple months
ago. I think I was able to keep my composure today. Even though things were going bad,
starting to slip away, I was able to grab it before it went too far away. 
 
Q. On your winning point, did you get yourself into the position you wanted to be in to
hit that ball or did you have to really use a lot of wrist to hit that cross-court? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think I was a little bit off balance with it. She was against the
wind, so it stopped a little bit. I was able to hit it cross-court. You never know where
the ball's going to go with the wind. Could have easily gone wide. You know, I got the
serve. She was coming in, which was a good play. I was just, you know, able to use a
little wrist and flick it cross-court. 
 
Q. With a shot like that, do you have any time at all to think about what you were
going to do with it?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No, not at all. Maybe that was lucky she didn't give me a chance to
play a point out, I don't know. That was a good play from her. But I just didn't have time
to think, just kind of flicked it cross-court. 
 
Q. I know you can't think about this during the match - maybe you can - but given the
history that both of you guys have, both as friends and professionally, the fact that you
were trying to get to your first semi-final at a Grand Slam, Jana's near misses, does all
that come into your mind as sort of a pathos about it?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I don't think so, so much. I thought on a couple points, "Maybe
she'll double-fault, maybe she'll give me this point." It never happened. She stayed
pretty solid through it all. I think anything, it was tough to keep the ball in today
because of the wind. On the one side, I'm thinking "keep this in". On the other
side, I'm thinking "swing". The ball still didn't go anywhere. You know, I think
Jana has had a lot of near misses, like you've said. Today, I don't really think you can
put this anyplace because it was so difficult to play. 
 
Q. But when somebody has a reputation for choking, like Jana does at times, can it
actually work against her opponent in that you may think that she may break, or does it
not even enter?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, I don't think she has that big a reputation anymore. I think
it's been a long time since she's ever done something like that. You know, she's gotten to
2 in the world, won a lot of titles for doing that. I thought with the wind and her high
toss, she was going to give me some more double-faults, but it never came. 
 
Q. Might the wind have been an ally for you, thinking about the wind so much, you
weren't thinking about your history in Grand Slam tournaments?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Everyone else is caught up in my history of Grand Slam tournaments
but me. Maybe that's good. I was thinking about the match, trying to advance. That's about
it.  
 
Q. Lindsay, people always say on a windy day like this, it's very difficult to pass.
You had a great day passing today. Why?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: You know, I don't know. I was actually very surprised that a lot of
my passing shots went by her. Pretty much before the match, my coach told me, "When
she approaches, you see it coming, make up your mind right away and hit it. If you see it
coming, you want to go down the line, just hit it down the line. If you hit the fence,
fine, but make your mind up." That helped me. Today on the backhand, as soon as I saw
it coming, I would turn and say, "I'm going down the line." I was successful
maybe making my mind up when I saw the ball coming. 
 
Q. Do you think that shorter backswing helps you over some other players?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Maybe, yeah. I was trying to get the ball early. You know, when I
was against the wind, maybe to try a few more angles, maybe the ball would stop them. When
I was with the wind, to really hit them. 
 
Q. You said a couple months ago, you might not have been able to win this match. Why do
you say that?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think I've learned a lot the last couple months. You've never won
the match, you've never lost it till it's over. Today, like I said, I stayed up even
though I let it seemingly slip away. I was able to come back and win it. Just some
confidence and learned a little bit more the last couple months. 
 
Q. Lindsay, you said before that you felt like you got lucky. Is this the first time
you've gotten lucky in a big Grand Slam singles match?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, the luckiest I've gotten in a big situation, for sure. She
could have easily made that approach and the match would have been over. You know, in the
quarterfinals of a Grand Slam, anything goes. Today we were both fighting to try to play
in hard conditions. At the end, you know, I think it was just luck. 
 
Q. Do you feel like you deserved that luck a little bit?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Maybe. Luck comes and goes. Maybe in two weeks, she'll get lucky.
You know, you never know what happens. Maybe I deserved it. I think I got very lucky at
the Olympics. I hit a let cord on set point. People talk about that a lot. I got lucky
again today. 
 
Q. If you wind up playing Martina Hingis in the next round, are you one of those
players who before the match focuses on a match that you had against that player, try to
sort of put yourself in the frame of mind of, "I can beat her; I've done it
before"?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No. I think each match is different. Coming out at a Grand Slam
semifinal is going to be different. No matter who I play, I'm going to try and attack. I
have wins over Martina, so that will help my confidence. I do believe I can beat her, but
I believe I can beat Arantxa also. I will just concentrate on playing the match and
playing the condition, which hopefully won't be a factor next time. 
 
Q. Could you comment on what maybe is a general phenomenon in a men's or women's draw,
when a player survives a difficult match, has to rally, it makes the player that much
tougher for the rest of the draw, takes them farther, why?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It's amazing. A lot of times players are down match point, second
round, come back and win the tournament. I think they feel like they've been given a new
life and feel freer. I felt very lucky to get by my third round, played extremely well the
next round. I felt like I was lucky to get by today, maybe I'll play extremely well my
next round again. 
 
Q. What did you learn from beating Martina in LA? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, I learned that she's beatable. But on top of me playing well,
you know, she definitely -- if she's playing her best, it's going to be a tough day, in
other words. In LA, she didn't play her best, and I knew that. You know, if I play
Martina, I have to try to not let her play her best, which is not let her be in position
and dictate and put the ball where she wants it to be. If I play Martina, I don't feel
like I have much to lose, which is nice. 
 
Q. With all of the fuss about Martina, she's No. 1, Venus Williams is younger than you,
are you starting to feel a little bit old?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I know (laughter). Today in the introductions, they said it was my
22nd Grand Slam. I was like, "Oh, my goodness." I don't feel old, but I feel in
the middle of three generations. I think Venus and Martina are the faces of the future. I
think myself and Majoli, maybe Anke Huber and Mary Pierce, you know, we're going to be
around for a lot longer. The players like older players are not going to be around as
much, maybe like Novotna - help me out - Steffi, they're not going to play for ten more
years, I don't think. 
 
Q. Do you feel a little urgency at this tournament because of that?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No. 
 
Q. With Venus and Spirlea in the semifinals also, are you starting to feel any shorter?
There's a lot of tall people?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: What? 
 
Q. Shorter.
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Venus has helped my situation a lot (laughter). Her and Brenda
Schultz around has definitely made life a little easier. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT