US OPEN
September 1, 1997
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Lindsay, did you prepare for this event differently than you have for past Slams? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It turned out to be very differently. You know, I played almost
every week this summer, playing tournaments. I played Stanford, Los Angeles, Canada,
Atlanta coming in here. You know, normally I don't play that many tournaments. I did not
play doubles in most of those events. You know, I just played a lot of matches coming in
here. I think the only way to really build your confidence is to play matches and to win
them. That's fortunately what I was able to do this summer. I think it's paid off here. 
 
Q. Lindsay, you've had a chance on several occasions to make the semifinals of a Grand
Slam. For one reason or another, you haven't been able to make that breakthrough. Now that
you're in the quarters here, is that something you need to think about before the match?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I guess. I think every time I've been in the quarterfinals before,
you know, I've never really been in the match. Graf killed me once. Conchita beat me at
Wimbledon actually 6-3 in the third. I was never up. I was down 5-2 and lost. Conchita
killed me at the French. I've never really been in the match. I think this time with
Novotna I'm going in with a bit of confidence, beaten her twice, haven't lost to her. I'm
playing well. You know, hopefully it's a good match-up for me. 
 
Q. Do you think it's an emotional thing when you get to quarters?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No, I don't think so. I mean, I haven't been there in two years now.
So before it was, you know, a lot different. I think I was younger. I don't think so. Not
in the past matches, not yet. 
 
Q. How does playing with confidence show up in your game on the court right now?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think maybe coming into the net a little bit more, taking a few
balls and hitting them and coming in, making the girl pass me, being able to go for my
shots at certain times during a match. You know, serving, couple times serving and
volleying and serving well, really forcing the issue. 
 
Q. What was working best for you today?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I'm sorry? 
 
Q. What was working best for you today?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, I think I was extremely aggressive from the beginning. I was
able to win the first set very quickly, very well. You know, I felt good out there. It was
very humid, no wind. I felt very loose, very warm. I was able to take her balls on the
rise and really hit the ball well today. It's one of those feelings you get sometimes. You
know, I definitely played some really good tennis today. This is my best match I've played
here so far. 
 
Q. A big part of Jana's game is that low-sliced backhand. Have you simply learned how
to deal with that over the last couple years?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Definitely. My coach slices a lot of backhands. I've definitely
learned how to cope with a slice backhand. You don't really get a lot in Juniors. When I
first came on the Pro Tour, it was very hard to adjust to that kind of spin and speed.
I've gotten used to that. You know, that's what I'm going to have to do. I'm going to have
to attack her backhand, attack her, make her pass me so I'm not passing her all day.  
 
Q. Is it more of a rhythm thing? Does the ball almost look like it's standing still?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It's kind of weird. You have to kind of -- for me, because I don't
slice, I have to change the direction of the ball and the spin. The ball is coming this
way, I need to take it and go this way with it (indicating). It's a little bit timing and
it's aim. I've learned you have to aim higher over the net with a lot more spin. You can't
hit those balls hard and flat. You just get it in until she hits one shorter or a little
higher. 
 
Q. Psychologically, you're doing really well in doubles with Jana, it seems to be
working really well, then you have to be across the other side.
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think it's different from in the past with Mary Joe. I mean, we
were best friends off the court. So it was always tough to play her. Jana and I get on
well on the court, good friends, but there's no personal relationship off the court. I
don't think it's difficult in that way at all. 
 
Q. In the television interview you said you feel a lot of pressure coming in here.
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I said I felt in the past. 
 
Q. How did that manifest? Where did the pressure come from? Is it self-inflicted? Is it
media stories that identified you as an up-and-coming player?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: In the past couple years, you know, you always hear, "Well, are
you ready to win a Grand Slam? When is the next American-born player going to win?" A
lot of it, you know, I let maybe the talk get to me a little bit. Last year, you know,
coming off the gold medal, I definitely felt like I should do well here and I could do
well. You know, this year, I've come in this Open with a lot less fanfare, even though I'm
playing my best tennis. I've had a great summer, just been kind of playing. I haven't been
bothered with a lot of attention, I should say. I've been able to go out and play. 
 
Q. What did you do to step up your game to beat Martina?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Just being aggressive with her. I don't think she really likes it
when she's not in control of the point. You know, she can be -- she makes some shots out
there, you're just, "Wow." When she's not controlling the point, I don't think
she likes that as much. I was just trying from the start to attack her. We've had tough
matches in the past. Six times three and three in all three sets. I have some confidence
playing her. 
 
Q. So you don't think of yourself as being the last American-born player in the field
here?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, it just hasn't come up, I guess, this year. Everyone is
saying, "Martina and Monica." Even Novotna, I don't think, has received a lot of
attention. I think it's just been a quiet year. 
 
Q. Do you think that with Hingis, there is no way right now for anybody to outfinesse
her; you have to overpower her?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think she's got the best hands in women's tennis right now for
sure, I don't know, ever. You know, I noticed a couple times I hit balls extremely hard
this far from the baseline (indicating), she just kind of half volleys them; the ball goes
back for an offensive shot almost. Not many girls can do that and handle the power. You
have to get her running. If she's playing her best, it's going to be tough for anyone to
beat her. You really have to not let her take control, and overpower her, I think. 
 
Q. How long have you played with Novotna doubles?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Since January. 
 
Q. Of this year?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, since February. 
 
Q. Of this year? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah. 
 
Q. Lindsay, with Martina, of course when you see her almost every week at a tournament,
sometimes hard to determine if she's getting bigger, still growing. She is still growing.
For us that maybe only see her every few months, looks like she's a little bit bigger, a
bit more natural strength to her. Do you think that's true?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: She's definitely going to get stronger. That's what's a little bit
scary. She has all these shots now. But the older she gets, she'll get more power. This
summer, I hadn't played her in about seven months, her serve was much stronger than seven
months before. So I definitely think she's gotten stronger. 
 
Q. Would you say this is the first time you really felt you could win a Grand Slam or
have you come and felt before, in your own mind?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think this is the first time that I've never really thought about
it. In my mind, I know I'm playing my best tennis. I think I'm a lot more of a different
player than before. But I just haven't been worried about it as much, I guess. "Oh,
I've got to do well here." I haven't worried about it. Just concentrated on who I'm
playing. Definitely, I think I'm in good shape to win it, you know, as I have been in the
past. 
 
Q. When you're playing on the same side of the net with a doubles player, you tend to
see the kind of balls that she hits well and does not hit well. How much does that help
you going into a match?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I hope it helps. I definitely learned a lot playing with her. I know
what she likes, what maybe her tendencies are. But singles is a little different than
doubles. Singles you have such a bigger area to hit the court, you don't have two people
covering it. We both know each other's game from watching each other play on TV, play
other matches, playing doubles. It's going to come down to who ever is playing better and
more aggressive. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT