US OPEN
August 28, 1997
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Do you feel like you're playing your best tennis at this point? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think I'm playing pretty well. You know, I've been playing really
consistently, consistently well the last couple weeks. So I don't quite know if it's my
best, you know, I like to judge by best against the best players. But I think I'm playing
very well. 
 
Q. You played one of the best players, Martina Hingis.
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I definitely played by best tennis this summer. This week I'm still
kind of building into it. Hopefully I'll have some left next week. 
 
Q. Martina was recently asked about you. She said, you know, she didn't want to use the
excuse she took a week off before you beat her, but do you feel like you can challenge her
for the title here?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think there's a lot of players. I think -- I like playing Hingis.
I don't mind playing her. When we've played, we've always had really long, close matches,
three sets, six times. I definitely think I can challenge her if I got to that point. I
think my main step is to keep winning these matches and to get there. 
 
Q. Have you gotten a chance to see Mirjana Lucic play at all?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I haven't watched her play. She played the other night. I think
we're on the same days. We played at the exact same time tonight. The other day I didn't
see her play. I think she'll have a good match with Novotna. I'll watch that one. 
 
Q. Jana said she was actually staying over to scout her because very few people have
actually seen her play.
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think a lot of girls in the locker room are interested to see how
she's played. She played on the outside courts. It's gotten so late, no one had a chance
to watch her. I think a lot of girls will be watching probably Friday night, whenever they
play. 
 
Q. I think Saturday.
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Saturday, excuse me. Might be Saturday night. 
 
Q. Does it give had her an advantage, like a pitcher that hitters haven't seen?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think so. I think the more you're on The Tour, the more players
get to know what your strengths are, what your weaknesses are. Rights now no one knows.
Right now they could hit it to her backhand all day long and that could be her favorite
shot. We don't know where her favorite serve is on a big point. Those are things you learn
over a long period of time. 
 
Q. Lindsay, actually you play in round three to Patty Schnyder. Tell me what you think
about Patty Schnyder, what do you like to do to win this match?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think Patty Schnyder had a very good year, very good player, very
good lefty. Pretty tough serve to get back, has a lot of spin. Good groundstrokes. I
played her last week in Atlanta. I think I'll have to be very aggressive and take the ball
on the rise, really move her around and be aggressive. 
 
Q. I mean, it's not fair to ask you, but I'll ask you. How big is the chance that Patty
can defeat you?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I don't know. I mean, if I don't play well, she has a chance to win.
If I play well, her chance is reduced a lot. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT