US OPEN
August 26, 1997
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Lindsay, things started so well for you in the first set, then you seemed to drift a
little in the second, forced into a tiebreak. What happened?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think, you know, I got broken early in the second set. I
definitely lost my concentration in that game. I was up 40-15, didn't really close it out.
You know, I think that was -- it what got me started down. She started serving better in
the second set. I was able to break back. I served for it at 5-4, should have put it away
there. She came back that game. I played a great tiebreaker to close it out.

Q. Why was it a great tiebreaker, explain that?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think she was coming in a lot. I passed her a lot of times, which
is sometimes tough to do when it gets really close. I was able to hit a lot of passing
shots and serve well. I was able to close it out easily, luckily.

Q. You mentioned on television that you thought that's where maybe your summer wins
have helped. How so? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, I think serving 6-5, 30-Love, I lose four straight points, I
think a lot of times in the past I would have gotten really upset, you know, maybe not
have thought too clearly in the tiebreak. But, you know, I was able to keep my composure,
stay really calm, start attacking her again. Just like I said, it was good for me. I hit a
lot of good passing shots in the tiebreak, was able to come up with the big shots at the
right time.

Q. Does that come with experience? You've been around for a while.

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Definitely. I think that comes with confidence maybe. Maybe if I
didn't come in winning a lot of matches, maybe you don't really feel like going for it
when it's close, maybe you'd rather just get the ball in. I don't know. I think it's
mainly how you feel about your own play.

Q. You've used the word "confidence" a number of times. How much confidence
do you have coming into here? What are your own expectations?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I have a fair bit. I'm feeling pretty good. You know, this is the
first Grand Slam I'm going to try not to look at the draw. Hopefully, you know. I got a
little caught up with myself at Wimbledon, a lot of seeds were out. But I'm feeling very
confident. I think I'm striking the ball really well. I have a really good hardcourt
record this year. I'm thinking about that before I go on. I know I'm one of the best
players on hardcourts. I just am going to show people here.

Q. Can it be said that maybe this is the first time you actually think that you can
win? Do you think you can win here?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think I can win.

Q. Is it the first time that you've come into a Slam thinking that?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think this is the most ready that I've been to perform well at a
Grand Slam, I think physically and mentally. I played a lot of matches this summer. I'm
feeling good. You know, it's not to say I'm going to win it, that I believe I'm the
favorite, by no question. I believe if I play well, I can win.

Q. Lindsay, what is your favorite part about being a touring pro, the life of the
tennis player, this aspect of the sport? What's the best part?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, I think there's a lot of good parts. I think traveling,
competing, meeting a lot of people, playing in front of a crowd.

Q. And the flipside, the one side, hopefully you won't say traveling --

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: That's what everyone says. Losing.

Q. Coming in with so much confidence, feeling so good, did it catch you a little bit
off guard that you actually had to struggle a little bit with Lori?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I don't think so. I was very nervous coming into this match. Even
though she needed a wildcard, I know what a great player she's been over the last ten or
so years, what great tennis she can play. So I was very nervous. I expected a very tough
match. I think I had a tough match, but I was able to pull it out.

Q. How much of your confidence is related to the victory over Hingis as opposed to just
the string of victories?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think it's everything. I don't want to sound cocky like I think
I'm going to win the tournament. I don't mean that with "confidence." I think I
believe in myself a lot more. I believe winning that match against Hingis obviously was a
huge match for me this summer. You know, playing Monica, we played a great match. I lost
6-4 in the third, but it was a good match. In Atlanta last week, being able to win there
again, same site where we played the Olympics, not lose a set, was very exciting also.

Q. Last year, it was a good summer, then here at the US Open you lost early. How do you
compare yourself this year?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Last year I lost in the Round of 16 to Linda Wild who played an
unbelievable match. I didn't fight her off very well. I think this year I have a few more
shots, a few more ways to maybe combat when someone is playing very well, I hope. I think
I'm a little bit in better shape than last year. I feel a little stronger. Maybe all of
that combined will help me this year. You never know, though. Grand Slams are so tough.
You know, you never know who you play, who's playing well at that time.

Q. Lindsay, if I recall years and years ago, you started, you came on, had good junior
results, worked with the USTA, had good results, sort of came up through the ranks. With
the three, with Venus, Anna, and Martina, almost despite the results, they're sensations,
there's hype, there's media. Do you ever think back and compare their sort of emerging on
the scene as sensations versus yours?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Not really. I think all of our rise was unique and different in
their own ways. I came very quietly, little fanfare, playing qualifying. I was able to
work my way up relatively fast actually after I turned pro to get into the Top 10. But I'm
very happy right now. No one bothers me too much. I'm able to walk around, watch matches
at tournaments. I like that. It just seems like definitely all of them are so unique in
their own way. The public absolutely loves those three probably the most. I'm playing good
tennis. That's what I'm concentrating on. Like I said, everything else is relatively easy
probably compared to everything they have to deal with.

Q. Semi-related matter. There's been a lot of talk about player development, a lot of
policy debates, analysis, possibilities of changes in programs. What was your experience
with player development? If you could change, if you were Czar, if you could change one
thing about it, what would that be?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Everything I've ever had to do with the USTA has been positive.
They've helped me since I've been 11. Lynne Rolley, who has been a major influence in my
life as well as my tennis, and they've been great to me. For me, you know, everything was
perfect. They were pushy, but stayed back sometimes and let me go to school, let me do all
of that. Whenever I needed to go to Florida and needed a coach, they always opened the
doors. You know, I think it's a tough job. I think they can maybe go in a better
direction. I'm not a big fan of the national team. I don't think there's really fair, a
lot of players in the States. I think they try hard. They've always done great things with
me.

Q. So not to harp on the negative, but do you think there's just too much politics and
either haves and have-nots with the national team?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think there can be. First of all, I don't think it's fair to have
a national team at your own nationals. You have certain players, they're all Americans, at
the nationals. It doesn't really make sense there. It does seem sometimes politics get in
the way. I think they try pretty hard to make every group happy, try to help as many
players as they can.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT