STATE FARM EVERT CUP
March 14, 1997
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Lindsay, rather than beat around the bush here, I was at the Olympics and you were going to play Mary Joe, you really didn't want to play her, great friends.  The other night somebody brought up the question, you have to play Mary Joe.  It was, "She knows my game."  What happened here?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  What do you mean? 
 

Q.  The friendship.
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  We're not as close as we used to be.  We're talking and working on everything.  It's really between us.  Just goes through a little streak.  The good thing is hopefully we're working on it.  It definitely is not as tough when you don't eat every meal with someone.  She's always been my best friend. I think she always will be. 
 

Q.  Even now?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  What? 
 

Q.  Even now you consider her your best friend?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah.  You don't just -- I mean, not at this moment we're not.  Like I said, we're not as close as we used to be.  I don't think we hate each other like people think. 
 

Q.  Is that emotion then out there on the court, it seemed kind of emotional when you were dominating her so much?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I think the Olympics was a huge moment also for both of us.  I mean, the Olympics, to get to the gold medal round, was pretty huge.  You're kind of part of a team in Atlanta.  It's a little different.  I think I've grown up a little bit in trying to handle stuff like that, trying to overcome that, because it's always been a problem with me if I liked whoever I played. 
 

Q.  Would you elaborate or care to elaborate on what happened?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Oh, no. 
 

Q.  You don't care to elaborate?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No. 
 

Q.  That's fair.  I have to ask.
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It's just personal. 
 

Q.  Obviously this had to be easier than you anticipated.
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah.  I mean, like I said the other night, we both know each other's games pretty well.  I think we both knew what to expect.  Today I think I played one of my best matches and she didn't play very well at all.  Those kind of circumstances sometimes happen. 
 

Q.  How hard was it to stay interested?  After your match with Venus the other night, to come out and play when you're so in control?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I think it helped me so much to have a day off.  I was a little sore yesterday, also just kind of winding down and getting prepared for the next match, which is even a bigger match because it's a semifinal.  I was able to do that.  I like this kind of weather out here.  I like it pretty hot.  The ball goes pretty fast through the air here, it flies.  If you can control it, it's to my advantage. 
 

Q.  How hard was it to stay interested?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  In the tournament or this match? 
 

Q.  This match.
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, you know, it's so hard when you're playing so well.  You're thinking, "Just keep it up for a little bit longer and it's done."  Sometimes you know you're going to get worse because you have to.  Like I said, I was aided today by some errors that she probably doesn't normally make.  At the end of the match, I was glad to close it out so it didn't get close. 
 

Q.  In a match like that, do you start feeling sorry for that person?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No.  I mean, I was more worried that I was going to start missing.  It's so hard.  I thought I was hitting the ball so well, I was seeing where it was going.  I was just trying to worry about me and not making errors. 
 

Q.  She did seem to have a little more luck when she started coming in at the end of the second set.
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Right.  I watched her play so many times.  I thought she was going to try to do something different.  It's tough when someone all of a sudden starts coming in.  I needed to make a few more first serves and not give her that chance.  I was lucky she didn't start doing that earlier. 
 

Q.  What's the plan for tomorrow?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  The plan?  Spirlea a play a lot like Graf.  She slices, runs around, tries to hit forehands.  If I can get some second serves, hopefully I can attack those.  All week I felt like I've been playing some of my best tennis in a really long time.  If I'm playing my game and attacking, you know, hopefully I can win my first big  title on the Corel WTA Tour. 
 

Q.  Speaking of a Corel WTA Tour and segwaying to all the big news about cloning, if you could clone some of the players on the Corel WTA Tour?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Like certain shots? 
 

Q.  Exactly, forehand, backhand, speed.
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Everybody wants Steffi's forehand, right?  I don't know.  You've got to let me think about that.  Probably Hingis' backhand.  I don't know. Don't make me do this now. 
 

Q.  How about 24 hours?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  You can ask me tomorrow.  I'll think about it tonight.  I can change those first two answers, though. 
 

Q.  Is this a good match to go into a final of?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Oh, I think for sure, especially when Spirlea played last night and had today off.  I didn't want to be out here for three sets, a long match.  I'm going to go to the pool now, get ready for tomorrow.  It's been luck so far.  I've been swimming every day.  Maybe that's it. 
 

Q.  It may be the water?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Maybe.  I hope. 
 

Q.  Or the brand of chlorine.  Lindsay, you said you're looking to win your first title.  So the Olympics?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  The Olympics, I'll always say this, is going to be the biggest win I ever had.  I should have specified tier one.  I have won tier two titles, but I've never won a tier one or a Grand Slam.  I think I should have said that. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT