U.S. OPEN
August 28, 1996
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What was the change, the first set you went through so quickly, very first game of
the second set you picked it up?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I played very well the first set. You know, it was going so fast,
playing well, she wasn't playing very well. All of a sudden in the beginning, the first
couple games were really important. Unfortunately I let her in on them and get more
confidence. She did play much better the second set. For some reason, I just kind of
stopped going for my shots, just played the way I hadn't played in a long time, just kind
of not really like aggressive and feeling confident. I don't know why I picked it up a
little bit in the end and was able to win.

Q. Is it sometimes hard to win the first set 6-Love? Does that work on your mind a
little bit?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think so. It's going so easy, you're cruising, feeling good, then
all of a sudden I got broke in the first game. I was like, "Oh, no." The second
set, like I said, I didn't play that well and she played a lot better. I was able to win
it, move on.

Q. You had a game at I think you were serving 1-3, went to 40-Love. Is that one of
those games where this is a different Lindsay Davenport where you might have crumbled
previously?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think so. I still felt even if I was down 4-1, I still felt I
could win that set. That is a change of thinking probably for me. I was still very
confident that I could win. I was able to pull that game out, which was a huge turning
point. I was able to go up 5-3. I should have won the match there, served for match point.
With more confidence that came. Hopefully it sticks with me.

Q. Lindsay, if things are going so well for you right now, do you find yourself trying
to hold back a little bit as far as not getting ahead, thinking who you might play in the
quarterfinals?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: For me here, I was so nervous about the first couple rounds because
I hadn't really passed them in years past, so I definitely haven't looked very far in this
draw. I know now I play Sidot who I don't know much about. I like knowing my opponent and
knowing how they play. I'm still taking it one match at a time. Each match I've been very
nervous for, which is good. I'm so nervous for each match, not looking ahead, really
worrying about each person I play so far.

Q. Did you know anything about your opponent today?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No, I didn't. It's so frustrating. You like to know if they're going
to slice or serve and volley, come in. My coach watched a little her play the other day.
You kind to like to see them play yourself before.

Q. Isn't it hard to explain, after one set you found out something about her and
couldn't do anything?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Right. I never played her. She didn't play well that first set and
then she started playing better. Took me a little by surprise, I think.

Q. Talking about nerves, were you nervous last night? Tell us what happened.

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I was nervous. I found out I didn't pitch from the mound. I thought
it was a female thing, they didn't think I could do it (laughter). I asked someone. They
said, "No, no. Everyone throws it from there. The Jensens did it there." I said,
"I was preparing for 60 feet." The guys were all really nice to me. Hopefully I
can go to one of their games. I couldn't stay long because I played early today. They were
great. Neat to meet them all.

Q. Did you throw it?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: They wanted me to fake them out and hit it with a tennis racquet
first. I hit a tennis ball with the tennis racquet, then threw it. The guy was literally
standing five feet a way. I was like (indicating), barely throwing it.

Q. You threw it to a pitcher?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah. He was here today, watched me play. Nice.

Q. You see yourself featured in so many different magazines, newspapers, television.
Does that add to your confidence when you go on court and read about what others are
saying in a complimentary way about you?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah. I try not to read too much about me, especially leading up to
this tournament. . I think it makes maybe other players a little more intimidated, some.
It does give me confidence actually. A lot of people are asking me, "Do you feel more
pressure this US Open?" I honestly don't. I feel that I'm playing well and that I
have a chance to win. You know, I think I've proven it to myself that I can play and can
win. I have a lot of confidence going. You know, you never know what happens here. 

Q. When you look at the draw sheets, I can't think of anyone who might have a tougher
road to a championship than you.

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Stop, stop right there (laughter). I don't want to hear anymore. I
haven't really looked.

Q. It's a piece of cake.

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I got a tough draw now. Oh, no (laughter). It was going so well,
gosh.

Q. Lindsay, Medvedev, talking about himself, he was talking about giving up more things
out of tennis, putting more energy into tennis, all that. To be an elite player at this
level, is there a time where you have to make a decision where you're going to make
literally all of your life tennis?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I know last December I decided to put a lot more into tennis. I
certainly am not about to put everything I ever do or everything in my life towards
tennis. I believe that I've dedicated myself a lot more towards tennis, doing well. It's
paid off for me. You know, some people like to get away; some people like to do everything
for tennis. It's pretty individual. I think the rewards for me have been a lot greater
since I've put a lot more into it.

Q. What was your thinking back then in December, "Give it my best shot right now,
put more in"?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I was so happy when the year ended. I had so many injuries and was
never playing that well, never really got going on any kind of training because I was
always injured. Kind of in December I just said, "God, you know." And Mary Joe's
coach Harold Solomon gave me this coach, "Ten years you don't want to look back and
say, what could I have done?" December I said, "I'm going to go for it. I'm out
of school. I don't want to go back to school right now. I want to do well in tennis."
I just decided I was going to put it all on the line. I've tried to do that. Like I said,
so far it's paid off. Down the road it's bound to go bad again and then you just have to
work even harder to get it good.

Q. The other day you pointed out that you've lost weight. Was that a conscious decision
on your part to do that?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Not really. Always in my thinking was, "I need to get in better
shape and get faster." I never said, "I have to get down to this weight or lose
this many pounds." I said, "I have to move better on the court and be
stronger." That's really the mentality that I took with my coaches and myself.

Q. Did you diet? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No, not really. Everyone asks me that. I haven't, trust me, cut out
anything (laughter). I'm working harder, I don't know.

Q. How much have you lost?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I hate these. I've lost around 20 pounds. I don't know if that's
good or bad.

Q. Looks pretty good. Do you ever just kind of daydream about that last shot at the
Olympics, Sanchez Vicario, a miss-hit, cranked it into the third row of the bleachers?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: A lot of times everyone gets nervous on match point. I remember at
the end of that match being so tired. The point at 30-All was really, really long. I
remembered at the last point being so tired and not really being able to be nervous
because, "I just want this to be over." I was so tired. I hit a good serve, one
shot, it was over. I was so happy. I do remember I didn't see where the ball went, but I
remember wanting to go to the forehand, to her weaker side, not giving her a chance to hit
her best shot, which is her backhand, and it worked out.

Q. Today first set went very smoothly, second set not quite as smooth. Can you talk
about the second set?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Like I said, I was doing so well, it was going so fast. All of a
sudden she started hitting some more shots in. I definitely started to miss a lot more.
Then you lose your confidence kind of fast when you get broken the first game of the set.
She definitely picked it up a level. The difference between her and the first and second
set was different, and the same with myself. I was able to get on another roll and get a
5-3 with match point. Probably should have won the match then, but didn't.

Q. Is it really true that you haven't looked forward to the draw past today?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No. But now I've figured it out because he said No. 4.

Q. Is it true that one game loss confidence --

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No. I lost that game. I'm confident I can win that game and win the
match. You know, it's hard when you start off down a break for sure.

Q. Do you feel like you're the outsider here?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I'm a lot more people's dark horse or pick outside of Graf, Seles,
Sanchez, everyone in the top. I feel, like I said, I've had some good wins. I feel if I'm
playing well and things work out, that I do have a chance.

Q. You're your own dark horse or other people's dark horse? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I said I think I'm other people's dark horse.

Q. Are you your own dark horse?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I personally wouldn't choose me to win, if I was going through the
draw and betting with someone. I would pick probably Steffi. Like I said, if things work
out, I think I could win.

Q. Lindsay, even after beating Steffi, you'd still pick Steffi?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: For her in a Grand Slam, it's kind of hard to bet against her. She's
so tough in the Grand Slams, wants these titles more than anything. I beat her in LA.
That's only once. She has five wins on me, I believe. I would put my money on Steffi or
Monica, covering the bases.

Q. Could be a lot of money.
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT