XXVI OLYMPIC GAMES
July 31, 1996
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Lindsay, talk about the emotion that's involved in winning that match?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It was such a big match for both of us, the big difference about playing for the gold.  On top of that I was playing someone who was my best friend and who I didn't want to see lose or play bad like she was playing.  On top of being, like, the biggest match of my life so far, going for the gold, I was playing someone who I never really want to lose.  So I was playing pretty well, and she wasn't playing well.  And at 6-2, 4-1, I pretty much thought it was over, because I knew she wasn't feeling that well, and she hadn't been playing that well up to that point.  And next thing I know she's hitting winners, and she was serving for the set.  I let up a bit.  Then I was just really lucky to pull it out. 
 

Q.  She's sort of known for that, she's never out of it, so is that a dangerous assumption you made?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I didn't say I've got this in the bag.  But I was saying she's not feeling well, and it's bad luck.  I wasn't thinking I was going to win, I've won this match.  I was more feeling bad for her.  And she just started really being loose and going for it.  And not really -- not really thinking that much. That's definitely when she plays her best. 
 

Q.  She has a sinus infection?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  She could probably answer that.  I just know she wasn't feeling that well. 
 

Q.  Lindsay, you remember the 11th game in the second set when you had a three point against you, you put the ball in the net, some players would have put it right in the body.  Would you say that was just a mistake or were you just --
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  The tough thing about playing someone that you practice against, they know your favorite shots and best shots. I thought I really wanted to go cross court, so maybe I should go down the line.  I watched her play a million matches and she's watched me play a million matches.  So I was thinking it was a big point, normally I serve it down the line, I'll serve it wide.  And a couple of those points I was trying to do things that I wouldn't probably normally do. 
 

Q.  Does your father ever relate anything to you about any kind of disappointment he had with not winning a medal when he got to the Olympics?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No, we've never talked about that. 
 

Q.  And how do you feel about being able to get a medal now, you're sure of getting a medal for the family?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Right.  It was such a big match.  Because all the other Olympics you were assured a bronze.  She already has two, she's going for a third in the doubles.  But that was the other, added even more pressure to that match.  The loser is not assured a medal in the singles and has a really tough fight to get it on Friday also against Novotna.  I haven't really thought about what this means and everything, but to be on the medal stand is going to be unbelievable.  And I hope I hear my National Anthem. 
 

Q.  You two had breakfast together this morning?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah. 
 

Q.  How did that conversation go?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Fine.  We hadn't talked about the match at all.  We went out -- we've had breakfast together every morning the  last two weeks.  To not have breakfast would probably make it too big a deal.  We rode over together.  We didn't talk about it at all.  We had talked about -- I said, okay, what are we going to do on line calls?  She said we'll play every call.  I said okay.  Don't worry, if we start changing calls we'll get into a fight.  1-All, she, the lady, called the serve out and she called it in.  I said, great, I have to do this back to her.  That's really the only thing we talked about. 
 

Q.  Where did you eat breakfast?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  At the hotel. 
 

Q.  At the --
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I can't tell you that. 
 

Q.  What did you have?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  What did we have?  I think we both had scrambled eggs, and I think there were potatoes, and she also had French toast.  It's a buffet. 
 

Q.  What about the conversation at the net, then, after the match?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I said -- I think I said I'm sorry.  We didn't say much.  I just saw her in the locker room.  And she's fine.  I'm more worried about how she's feeling and how she's feeling for the doubles coming up this afternoon. 
 

Q.  You did say I'm sorry?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I think so.  I don't want to go out there and see her lose. 
 

Q.  You lobbied for her to get in here, didn't you?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yes. 
 

Q.  Does that make you feel a little better, to be the one to knock her out?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, it was such an unfortunate thing of anyone, she was left off this team.  Two medals in Barcelona, one gold, one bronze, unbelievable role model.  Top ten singles and doubles.  Just because they picked that week of the rankings, she was left off.  If they had picked a month earlier or a month later she would have been on the team.  All of us thought she needed to be on the team.  We were so happy that the ITF, the USTA and the IOC made an exception to play doubles.  And then it worked out she got in the singles, because unfortunately Chanda got hurt.  The big news came at Wimbledon when we found she could play doubles. 
 

Q.  She's talked about having difficulty playing someone she likes a lot and she can't go out there and punish them on the court.  Did you sense that a bit today, apart from not feeling good she wasn't going full throttle?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  The last time she played me she killed me, almost the same score.  It's tough.  Our families are very close and they were sitting near each other, and were trying not to say anything.  We knew it would be a problem, and it's going to be a problem.  But if that's the one match that I'm going to lose to her and she was going to play for the gold I would be happy for her and I think she feels the same. 
 

Q.  What's your thoughts about Vicario now?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, let's move on.  I can't wait.  I was so tight this match and so nervous that I have to be more relaxed next time. I cannot get anymore tight.  So I hope -- I hope -- I've got to go for it and go for my shots.  And if I'm playing well, hopefully I'm going to bring home the gold.  She's going to run down a lot of balls, make me play a lot of shots.  If I'm on top of my game, I definitely can win it. 
 

Q.  What do you need to do to win it?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I need to be on top of the points and be  definitely the aggressor.  My style of play is to hit hard and try and hit winners.  Normally, if I'm on top of my game I win a lot of the time.  If she's moving me around the court and inside the baseline it's going to be pretty tough because she moves so much better than I do. 
 

Q.  Is this going to be a match from the baselines, do you think?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I would think, unless some big surprise comes out of it. 
 

Q.  Have you given any thought to what playing for the gold might do for your career down the line?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No, what it would do for just me -- I've been seeing all the athletes up there for the last week and a half getting their gold medals and hearing the Anthem.  And I hope I can do the same. 
 

Q.  Lindsay, do you have any thoughts on the format of Olympic tennis, so maybe is there any way where a teammate would not knock out another teammate?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  In this draw I think they do it the correct way, where we really can't meet until the latest possible round. There was three of us, and two of us had to meet in the semis, whether it be Monica and Mary Joe or Monica and myself.  I've said all week, one part of the two weeks should be a team competition, with country versus country, and if they want individual maybe take only two or make the ranking cut off very steep.  But it's much better to meet in the semifinals or the quarter finals or the 16. 
 

Q.  Where does this rank among the thrills of playing in tennis, especially in light of the fact that some of the men don't seem to give this the weight the women do?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  This is going to be the biggest match of my life, for sure.  The Olympics mean a great deal to me, they seem to mean a bigger deal to the women than to the men for whatever reason.  The women aren't here for the money, they're here playing for their country, playing for the medals.  And I think that shows a lot for women's tennis.  We don't go out there just for the money or for whatever reason.  We're here for our countries. 
 

Q.  Lindsay, did you ever have any conversations with Jennifer about what it felt like to win a gold medal?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No, I never did. 
 

Q.  Lindsay, Arantxa had said that it was hard for her in Barcelona to play because of being from Spain and everything.  Do you think the tide has turned and are you going to feel pressured?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I don't think so, I think I've been largely overlooked for this tournament, which is fine for me I've been going through my matches against Huber and Majoli just fine.  The crowd has been for me in most situations.  And hopefully they're for me on Friday.  I don't feel the home country pressure like the Spaniards did in Spain. 
 

Q.  Do you think it will help you, do you look forward to having that --
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It's been great, when we're playing and the USA cheers.  And the crowd sticking behind the country is great.  If we were to play in Spain the crowd would be going nuts for Arantxa. So hopefully they'll be excited for me. 
 

Q.  Was it harder today because the crowd didn't really seem to cheer?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, it's tough when you have two Americans playing with each other.  The crowd, including myself, wanted Mary Joe to play better, because it wasn't a very good match.  And just the circumstances were tough.  The crowd is much  better when we play foreigners. 
 

Q.  Has it sunk in yet that you are in the gold medal standing?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I haven't thought about going on yet.  I want to go out and hit a little more today just to try and loosen up a bit and then hopefully tonight and tomorrow it will kick in. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT