XXVI OLYMPIC GAMES
July 29, 1996
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Lindsay, I would assume you knew when you went on the court that Monica had lost.  Did you feel any extra pressure?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   The four of us players were watching those two matches, just flipping back and forth, flipping back and forth, because they're such great matches.  Monica losing doesn't -- I didn't feel I put anymore pressure on myself.  I knew I had a good chance to win today and that I really wanted to do it here, and I did it. 
 

Q.  After your first match, you said that one of your fears going into it was the heat.  That didn't seem to be a factor at all today.
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   No.  I normally play better when it's hot.  I'm a lot looser and warm up quicker; the ball goes a little faster, I think.  I don't know if that's true.  If I was to get into a really long match or anybody, it's going to be a factor.  If I can keep the points short and play my game, hopefully I won't be out there long enough to feel it. 
 

Q.  Lindsay, Mary Joe is up 5-1, it looks like that's who you're going to be playing.  Can you tell us how that matchup is?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   I'm so happy, I think.  It's just unbelievable.  Both before this tournament started, I was pretty sick when I first got here, and we've been on the road a while. She's my best friend, and I'm so happy that she's made it this far. What an opportunity to play in the Olympics against each other in the semis.  It's great.  I actually hope she pulls this out.  I was just watching the last game.  I don't think she's won yet. 
 

Q.  5-2.
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   Oh, no. 
 

Q.  How do you two match up strengthwise?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   Well, we've played each other three times.  She's two and one.  It's so difficult, because we practice with each other all the time.  We know exactly how each other is going to lay.  So I think in terms -- it's really going to be who plays better, and I think that's all it's going to come down to. We're going to have a great time out there with the crowd. Hopefully will be for both of us and the United States.  And we're in the Olympics.  It's great. 
 

Q.  Did your dad make it out?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   He was here.  He's in the lounge eating McDonald's right now.  I swear, he's here. 
 

Q.  Have you spoken to him?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   I just kissed him, my mom and dad, as I walked in here.  But that's it.  I went out and watched a game and half of Mary Joe's match and came in here.  I'm planning on going to volleyball tonight.  I think USA plays Bulgaria, so we'll see. 
 

Q.  What will you do tomorrow, watch the doubles?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   Probably hit in the morning, watch Gigi and Mary Joe.  Hopefully I'll be out of here early and try to go see another event or try to do something again.  I haven't even looked to see what's going on tomorrow. 
 

Q.  Did you come into this tournament expecting to be here; did you have a lot of confidence?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   I didn't expect when I first got here, because I've been gone for 12 weeks, and I came from Nagoya with Fed Cup, and I was pretty tired.  Once I started playing, I knew I was hitting the ball well.  I like this kind of court.  This is my  favorite surface.  You can never expect to get somewhere because you're going to have to beat top players.  I knew I had the chance to make it and I pulled through it. 
 

Q.  Would you rather see the Olympics be a team event the way the Fed Cup is?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   Definitely.  I think we practice -- I said this earlier in the week, we practice as Team USA with each other. We have a team coach, and then we get out there and it's like we'll by ourselves.  I think that at least gymnastics has a team and an individual, and a lot of other sports do too.  It's hard.  We have a team coach, and Billie is going from this match to this match watching games.  And they try to make it so much of a Team USA thing, and we get out there and it's almost like a normal tournament. 
 

Q.  Is it to your advantage that Mary Joe is going to be playing doubles in between?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   Oh, it actually might be to my disadvantage.  I always like playing a competitive match on my day off, especially doubles.  You don't run as much, but you hit a lot of serves and returns.  So I don't think it kills me or favors me. I don't think it favors me at all. 
 

Q.  It's 5-3 now.
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   Well, Conchita is a great player.  No, if I play Conchita -- 
 

Q.  According to the seedings today, it was an upset, but I take it you don't look at it that way?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   I like to play players that have a two-handed backhand and try and be aggressive and don't really come in and don't really slice.  I have a good record against Huber or Maleeva or Date.  I have a harder time playing Conchita or Gaby or Steffi, when they have that heavy slice.  When I go into a player like that, I know if I can take charge and be on the offensive, I have a good chance to win the match. 
 

Q.  Lindsay, can you talk a little more about your friendship with Mary Joe?  What kind of things do you have in common?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   You know, we're actually not a lot like -- excuse me, we're very different.  I'm actually a little more like outgoing, she's a lot more quiet.  I have a way worse temper than she does.  She's very calm.  We just mix well together.  We've been great friends now for two-and-a-half years.  It's like she's my older sister, for sure.  She's four or five years older than I am and she really does take care of me really well and make sure I don't get in too much trouble. 
 

Q.  When did this start?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   It started -- we really got to know each other when we played Fed Cup, I guess, in -- it was either '93 or '94.  '94, I'm sorry.  '94.  And she's been my best friend since, and she's just -- she's a really great person, very honest and very trustworthy and trying to rub off on me. 
 

Q.  What kind of trouble would you likely get into that she keeps you from?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   I thought you meant on the court.  I can't answer that. 
 

Q.  Are you good friends?  Do you spend a lot of time together even at things like Grand Slam events?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   Yeah, we always try to stay at the same hotel.  Our coaches are very close, good friends.  And weeks off I go to Miami sometimes or we always practice together.  We play doubles together.  We always are pretty much together. 
 

Q.  Talk about that decision where you kind of gave up the  double slot.
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   Well, I offered to give it up.  I don't know if it mattered or not.  It was so unfortunate she wasn't on the team, and originally I was slated for the doubles with Gigi.  And it wasn't fair, at all, that Mary Joe wasn't on the team.  So I said that obviously she can take my spot, I don't know if that mattered, because they let her in any way.  But it's not fair.  She's been a great ambassador to the sport, won a gold medal in '92 and a bronze medal.  A great role model.  She's proving it now, she deserved to be here. 
 

Q.  All that being said, you want to crush her tomorrow?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   Don't play her tomorrow. 
 

Q.  Or the next day.
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   I'm going for the gold and she's going for the gold because she's so happy to be here.  It was our goals last year to be here together and go to opening ceremonies and do it all.  And now playing her in the semis is great.  I wish we didn't have to play for the bronze now. 
 

Q.  Lindsay, what was the story on your not wearing team uniforms this time?  They looked so nice in Barcelona.
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   We were told last year we were no longer supposed to wear the uniforms that the USTA gave on the court with the flag skirts.  I think Nike wanted us in Nike and the other companies kept up with that.  I'm sorry.  I wish we had something red, white and blue, here.  But we can't help that. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT