XXVI OLYMPIC GAMES
July 28, 1996
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. You were down 3-1 in the third and I left. 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   It was you then.  That is the answer.  
 

Q. What happened?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   I just really felt in the second set in the beginning of the third set I was having a hard time on my returns, and I was missing a lot of them.  I felt that I had breakpoints in the service games, but I missed the return all the time to get down.  And then once I got the one break to get back even, it was -- I felt good.   I broke her again and, you know, I think I just got a little more confident.  Once I got the first break I was able to hit a few more balls in the court.  She was standing very far inside the baseline and taking my balls on the rise and moving myself around, not making many errors.  She started to make a few more.  I finally got the ball a little deeper to back her up a bit.  
 

Q. You had a couple of chances, couple of breakpoint chances early in the set and missed them.  Were you -- how did you keep focused? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   I was really frustrated because normally my best part of my game is breaking serve and returning well, and that wasn't going well, and I am thinking come on.  I mean, I had so many breakpoints, maybe five, I think.  I missed return on all of them.  I think a lot of it was nerves, because once you miss a few, you are like okay, just get this one in.  It didn't even come near going in.  So, like I said, once I got the first one, I calmed down a lot and felt a lot more confident with myself.  
 

Q. Where is dad?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   You know, he was here all day until 5:00 p.m., and then he left because he didn't think I was going to play.  No, not 5:00, he left right before they changed my court and the rain stopped, because he was working tonight at 7:30, and they told me -- they said it was going to rain all day. 
 

Q. Sure it wasn't child neglect?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   I am starting to think that.  No, he was here, and he is going to come back tomorrow, so that is good.  Maybe he -- you know what, maybe I don't want him to come.  Maybe it is because he is not here I am winning.  I don't want to curse myself now.  No, just kidding. 
 

Q. Give me a patriotic reaction, if you could combine U.S. 17 and 1 depending on the outcome of this match.  Is that  something that you thought was possible?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   I think that is great.  I think especially without Pete here, you know, U.S. Team has done remarkable.  Richey got hurt, which was very unfortunate, and the rest of us are just playing really well.  And, you know, the crowd is doing an unbelievable job.  And the other countries -- they are very, very loud sometimes in the States, they are not as loud, and they are really trying to be loud and vocal for us here, and it helps a lot.  There weren't a lot of people out on my court, but the ones that were there were really helping me at the end of the third set, cheering me on, and that definitely makes a difference.  We are all fighting to get on is the podium and hearing our National Anthem, so I hope one of us in each division makes it. 
 

Q. Does that really influence how you go into a match or do you prepare for this -- for every match here just like you prepare during a regular tournament?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   You prepare for it like any other tournament.  But when you get on the court, there is a little different feeling playing here than, let's say, a normal tour stop.  I really feel, and I think the other players, like they are really playing for their country, and it is a team thing.  Mary Joe, Monica and Gigi were all there watching at the end, and Mary Joe and Monica almost watched all of it.  It helps to see your teammates cheering for you.  And having Billie Jean  and everyone else just make me feel a lot better out there.  
 

Q. Is there one question you would not like addressed to you right now?  For instance, you have to look at the brackets, two Americans in one side, one American on the other is there going to be an inevitable collision here?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   Oh, no, I think we are all praying that we are playing each other, because that means we are in the semis and the finals.  It is going to be really tough.  You know, hopefully Mary Joe and I will meet in the semis.  But it is going to be really tough, she's got a tough match against Conchita, and I have an extreme match against Iva Majoli, and Monica has a tough match against Novotna.  We are all playing players ranked in the top 6.  I think Novotna is 6.  They are all in the top 6, it is going to be tough.  I think tomorrow afternoon, you know, I hope the three of us are still in.  
 

Q. All of you play tomorrow?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:   Yeah, we all play tomorrow.  It is going to be a tough day.  But I really feel a winnable day for us, if we all play well.  I think we can all do it.  Anything else?  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT