XXVI OLYMPIC GAMES
July 26, 1996
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Lindsay, just wondered, Monica, MaliVai and Andre are getting Center Court time; the crowds; most of the attention here and you and Mary Joe both won here first the few matches.  Does that thought at all -- does it bother you?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  We have both played on Center Court and Court 1, I think, obviously, Monica and Andre are going to get, you know, all the attention because they are pretty much superstars, you know, outside of the sport of tennis also.  It doesn't bother me.  I think, you know, we just go along playing our games, and you know we are happy for them.  We want them to definitely win here and just hope that we keep playing well or, at least, myself.


Q. What are you doing, anything in particular, last first two matches that you are pleased with?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, I am just really pleased that I was able to win both matches easily.  Olympics is a tough sport -- tough place to play with the crowd and nerves and so I am just happy I haven't let it get close yet.  I like winning easily. 


Q. Do you think that you were striking the ball  particularly well today?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I thought I was hitting the ball very well.  I think the ball tends to fly a little more here.  I think the strings loosen up so quickly in the hot weather that the balls kind of go deeper and so I felt that I was hitting the ball really clean and when I missed, I felt that they were going long, but I thought I have been hitting the ball very well since I have been here.  I like the courts a lot, and it is nice to have the crowd support of maybe it is not packed for the match but the ones that are there are very vocal and that helps a lot.


Q. Are you glad in a way that you are playing matches without a whole heck of a lot people watching?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I haven't thought about it too much. You know, when I played on Court 1, it was pretty packed the other day, and I think a lot of people were out watching Mary Joe and then Andre in doubles, but like I said, I am just happy I am winning and playing well right now. 


Q. Lindsay, must be getting to know your group of girls pretty well from Fed Cup and everything.  Can you talk a little bit about the group like Mary Joe, Chanda, Gigi, different personalities; who the leaders are when you go out?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  You know, Chanda and Mary Joe are probably my best friends on the Tour and I am very close with Gigi and I am getting to know Monica very well.  And, you know,  I think like if we are all together, Gigi has a very strong personality and she really speaks up before the rest of us do on what we want.  And I think Mary Joe and Chanda tend to be a little bit more quiet and tend to go with the flow and I think Monica and I, we are pretty similar, we kind of have a little fire to ourselves that is a little bit more outward than Chanda and Mary Joe.  They are just very easy going, and, you know, I think it is amazing that the five of us are really good and top players and get along really well.  I think that for Fed Cup teams and even Olympic teams that we are going to be a really strong team for a long time. 


Q. Did your dad make it today?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I don't know.  I didn't see him.  I was in the locker room watching Mary Joe's match pretty much all afternoon and went out and played and just came in here.  Going to look for him.  I haven't seen anybody yet.


Q. Is it surprising to you that you all have turned into more of a team than --

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I think so.  I hear reports that top players don't get along.  I know from the standpoint of the four of us, Mary Joe, Chanda, and Monica, myself, all fo9ur of us are in the top 10; I would consider those three my best or good friends on the Tour.  So I kind of don't understand when people say the top women can't get along.  I don't think that is true at all.  And I don't think it has to be like that at  all. 


Q. Huber is next.  Any thoughts on that match?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, that is definitely a tough match.  I have played her probably four, five times and I don't think I have ever lost to her, but, you know, she is ranked five in the world and has had a great year so far.  Plays same style as I do, hard groundstrokes.  I think who is ever offensive the most without making the most errors is going to win. 


Q. So one way to get more attention is to keep on winning?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  To get a medal. 


Q. Have you at all thought about the possibility of playing each other down the road with a medal at stake?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  At first Gigi thought they placed us in the draw so we actually couldn't sweep the medals; maybe I would have to meet Monica or Chanda or Mary Joe in the quarters and the way it worked out, when we first saw the draw, we said, yeah, we can sweep the medals.  That is what we are trying to do, collectively, as a team in the singles portion. You know, it can work out how the draw goes, but I think we would all have to play pretty unbelievable to have that happen.


Q. You said you watched Mary Joe's match.  Have most of you gone to see each other?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, I know Monica came the other  day.  I know she was sleeping this afternoon and I plan to go out and watch Gigi and Mary Joe and Monica play Gaby.  It is tougher here because it actually turned into almost like a regular tournament, but we have all been supporting each other a lot.  I think that helps when you get out there just to know that your teammates are on your side. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT