THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 26, 1996
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Performance today, pretty solid? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah. 


Q.  Pretty solid? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Very solid.  You know, it was an important first game.  It was a long first game.  I got on top of her.  You know, I've had a good record against her.  I match up well.  She gives me the kind of ball I like to hit.  I stepped in well.  The second set was getting a little windier, conditions were getting a little, I don't know, the wind started swirling a little more.  I was able to pull it out 6-1, very happy to be in the semis. 


Q.  You've had a good tournament.  Do you think that you're just moving it up a notch as you go along? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I've had a really good last couple weeks.  I lost in the semis at Indian Wells to Graf 7-5 in the third in three hours.  I played very well to get there.  I've continued it here.  Sometimes in the past when I've played well, the next week is kind of maybe a let down.  So far here I've played very well.  I've had one close match.  The other matches I've been in control of, so I'm pretty excited. 


Q.  You going to go out and watch Steffi play today? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I think I won't go out.  I think it's on TV.  I'll go back to my apartment and watch a little.  That's the luxury of when your opponents play on TV.  I have doubles this afternoon, doubles match tomorrow.  Just kind of get ready for Thursday through the doubles. 


Q.  You seem never to have given her a chance today? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No.  I mean, there were a couple -- I think the game at 3-1 was pretty important in the second set.  She had a couple game points.  Every time I was down breakpoint, I felt I was able to come up with a good serve or good shot right away.  That's important.  When you get a lead, you've got to try and maintain it. 


Q.  Playing better here than you did at Indian Wells? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I don't know.  It's different conditions here.  I mean, the wind definitely is a factor here.  I seem to keep going slowly up.  I don't know.  You know, I don't want to say this because maybe I'll deflate on Thursday.  I don't want to.  Keep trying my best to play well and keep -- even if I'm not playing well, keep trying hard. 


Q.  And a preview of the Graf match tomorrow? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  We played a great match a couple weeks ago.  That means nothing starting over.  It gave me confidence that I could win.  I was up a set, lost second set in a tiebreak, and the third, I guess, was 6-4. It definitely gives me the confidence that I'm almost there.  The match is a completely different story Thursday. I'm just going to have to definitely play my best or very best to win.  It gave me some hope that I can win.  I hope that I can play well. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT