STATE FARM EVERT CUP
March 14, 1996
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What was the matter with your toenail?

 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It broke at the very bottom.  I never actually
had that happen.  I kind of noticed it this afternoon.  It was
a little cracked at the bottom.  One shot I went for, I just felt
it going, so I have no toenail now.

 Q.  How painful was that?

 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It was very painful running.  I felt it more
on the forehand side because I stopped and planted that foot.
 But I mean, it was painful in the beginning when it happened,
but I think as any injury when you play a match, it goes away,
your adrenaline goes.  It was bothering me, but you don't really
feel it.

 Q.  At the end of a match like that, what is the stronger
emotion, frustration, having lost or pleasure in having played
so well?

 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  That is the second time this year. I lost
to Seles, like same score in Sidney, you know, gosh, I don't know,
I am not sad.  I mean, I think I played exactly the way I would
have played on those points.  It wasn't like I was  within one
point, but it is definitely a pleasure both times this year playing
against the No. 1 player in the world, I have been this close
to wining both matches, and definitely frustration starting to
set in because there is -- both times I haven't won those matches.
 I think it is a little bit of both.

 Q.  What do you think made the difference Lindsay in the third
set because you knew she was not physically at her peak either?

 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Right.  I mean, I was a little down from
not winning the second set and, you know, I just really felt that
if I had served better, I would have won that match.  Maybe there
is other factors involved, but I really felt that I did not serve
well and my serve let me down.  You have to put in first serves
against her and hit them well.  I was not making many first serves
at all.  There is other factors out there, but I think, for me,
that is the one main thing I was very disappointed in and next
time, huh, that has got to change.

 Q.  Were you aware that Steffi was hurting before you got
your own injury?

 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, I mean, every match she plays, I guess
there is something wrong and I think players, I don't know, we
understand she is hurt, but we hear about it every tournament,
every match, and so I think everyone just  kind of goes, whatever,
she is so hurt; she always plays really well and moves really
well and serves really well, and so, I think the players are just
kind of like, whatever, she is hurt, it doesn't, you know, there
is nothing we can do.

 Q.  Does it distract you if she has her treatment there?

 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No, I mean, she was doing it within the changeovers,
and I wasn't sure of the rule of how often she could actually
get treated without being -- without calling an injury time-out
and not calling an injury.  I don't know, I mean, you know, it
is Steffi Graf and she is No. 1 in the world, so whatever they
do, you know, I don't know what the rules are or what the rules
are for her.

 Q.  The last game, Lindsay, you are up Love-30, what happened.
 Did she just --

 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  She put in some good serves, and, you know,
it is the same thing, when I got close in the second set, same
thing when I played Monica, the girls, they just don't miss at
those times.  They always put the ball in. Monica tends to step
in and hit winners.  Steffi steps in and hits a winner -- hits
it really deep, and both of them are both just so great at that
when it gets to be at that point of a match.

 Q.  Were you implying in the previous response that --

 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No I wasn't implying that they change --


 Q.   -- Are bending the rules to accommodate her?

 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No, I wasn't.  I didn't know if there was
a rule if you can get treated a lot of times without an injury
time-out.  I don't know what the rule is.  I asked about it on-court
to the supervisor. She said you can get treated, I think it was,
three changeovers in a row and I don't know anything about those
rules, injury rules, because I don't really use them that often.


 Q.  She was treated; then you were treated at the same changeover.

 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  She was treated and then I guess I got an
injury time-out so they could tape my toenail, toe.

 Q.  Maybe I missed it, what about your injury?

 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, just my toenail broke off on my left
foot, the big toe, the nail came off, and so they just wrapped
the toe and padded it.

 Q.  At the end of the game there seemed to be really a friendly
atmosphere.

 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I have an incredible amount of respect for
Steffi.  She has played forever.  I think she is a very nice person.
 I don't know her very well, but she has always been very friendly
to me and very, you know, she seems like a very nice person and
from everything I have read about her, I think she is a super
person and I have a lot of respect for her, and, you know, obviously
I am upset I lost, but she  played a great match and she deserved
to win.

 Q.  You both played a great match?

 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Thank you.  Almost.  No, just kidding.

 Q.  In terms of like your best matches, how would you rank
this one?

 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I think, you know, it is definitely up there.
 I referred to the Seles match I played in Sidney which was an
incredible match also for myself that I thought I played.  Those
two were some of the best matches I have played.  Except sometimes
in these matches for a couple of games it is -- I play extremely
well and then a couple of games I don't know where I am.  And,
you know, I have got to learn to, you know, maybe not be so flashy
(sic) and hit the winners, but at least be solid in those games
where I tend to make a lot of errors.

 Q.  Doesn't it hurt that you came back even --

 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Four sure, I never give up and I always fight
when I am down and both sets I came back from a substantial lead,
but didn't get over the hump and win them both, so, you know,
I fought hard, but at the end it wasn't enough.  I can't keep
getting down like that because it is too hard to keep getting
back up and winning it.

 Q.  Was there any brief feeling at all after the second set
tiebreaker that maybe you let the opportunity get away? 

 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I don't think so.  I think that early in
the third it was like a little bit of, like a lull, you know,
because we are so close, so close, so close; then it is all over
again.  Then I got it back going again at the end, as I said.
 I don't think I let this match go.  She dominated the tiebreaker.
 5-All I had three or four break points to go up 6-5.  It wasn't
like I had ball in the court that I missed. She hit first serves.
 She hit very deep, very hard.  There is not much that you can
do or regret about over that.

 Q.  The injuries tonight were relatively minor, but Monica
pulled out; Gaby pulled out.  Steffi doesn't go to Australia.
Seems to be an inordinate number of injuries and physical problems
on the women's side recently.  Have you noticed that? Do you think
that it is a matter of training or just the harshness of the circuit?

 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I think it is all pretty individual.  I think
the circuit is very tough.  I think Steffi has been playing for
twelve years.  I mean, there is only so much a body can handle.
 I think Monica has been injured a lot since she has been back
and I don't know why.  I mean, maybe she plays a lot, she practices
a lot, and, you know, I don't know really how to answer that.
 I don't think it is anybody's fault and I don't think it is necessarily
training.  I just think the Tour is pretty tough on players.

 Q.  How do you think the tournament has worked out with  the
men and women playing together?

 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I mean, I think it is great.  I think, you
know, the fans, I think, enjoy it.  As much as you know, people
say they rather watch men's tennis which is probably true, but
I think they enjoy seeing the women and especially if we give
them good matches and I think tonight's match was an excellent
match for the crowd watching.  They got into it a lot.  I think
that -- I think it is tough when Muster and Courier are playing
on the clubhouse court and I don't know, I felt kind of bad yesterday,
every male was playing on the clubhouse court, but, you know,
I think it is a great event.  I think that it has been extremely
successful no matter how it goes from here on out.  I like, once
in a while, playing with the men.  I don't think we would want
to do it all the time, but five or six times a year is nice.

 Q.  Any logistic problems as far as the court and practicing....

 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I actually haven't had a problem. I practice
over at the other hotel, Stouffers, Esmeralda.  I think those
courts are extremely similar and there is a lot of them and practicing;
warming up here has been fine.  I haven't had a problem.

 Q.  Are you going to play your doubles match tonight?

 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I am.

 Q.  How are you going to recharge and how much are you  going
to have left?

 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, I don't know, my partner was commentating
the match, so I don't know how into it she is either.  I have
been in this situation a lot, you know, maybe not this late at
night, you know, it goes on and I think we will be okay.  I hope
she is not "arghh" from having to sit there and talk
the whole time.

 Q.  Did you detect, Lindsay, when you were pushing so hard,
did you think she was -- (inaudible)?

 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  You think you get her to her point; all of
a sudden she comes up with amazing running forehands or just the
slice that stayed really low and every time I think, okay, she
is on; I am getting up there, I am getting close.  She came up
with amazing shots, and that is why she wins a lot of matches,
probably a lot of tournaments she plays. That is why she is No.
1.  I think people -- I mean, people are saying, oh, she doesn't
have enough matches, enough matches, but I think she has played
enough matches and she knows when it is close to step it up and
turn it on and she did that.

   End of FastScripts..... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT