STATE FARM EVERT CUP
March 13, 1996
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Have you seen Chanda Rubin anywhere today?

 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I mean, definitely that first set was very
-- I mean, very obvious that she was not playing at all well,
I mean, I don't know how to say it.  But I think she would agree
that she didn't play very well, and that she was having a lot
of problems.  I mean, I'd like to say it was me, but I don't think
so.

 Q.  How did you feel you were playing though?

 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I thought I was playing pretty well.  I mean,
I was trying to keep the balls where I wanted them; mostly to
the backhand side and trying to keep them deep.  I thought I was
actually moving pretty well.  I think I was running down a couple
of balls and keep trying to make her play more.  I didn't -- I
was trying to attack, but I didn't get that many chances to attack
because the points were they short, but I felt the balls I did
get I tried to -- I put them where I wanted to.

 Q.  Would you call this an uncharacteristic performance  from
her?

 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Okay, I think that I had -- I think she is
known to play really well or not so well.  I think in Sidney she
lost, I think, 0 and 1 to Date and the next week she plays, I
mean, some of the best tennis that has ever been played by a female,
I swear, so, when I went out there, I talked with my coach and
obviously the plan was to attack and hit the balls deep and hard,
but also to be aware of how she was playing and which, I don't
know, if -- which Chanda, or how well she was going to play, that
is what I was aware of and in the first set, I realized I didn't
have to go for a winner on the first balls because she was making
a lot of errors.

 Q.  So you are happy with the Chanda that you got for today?

 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, no, I mean, she is a friend of mine.
 I think in the second set, it got a little better, I mean, the
last couple of games were okay.  But, you know, it was a win for
me.  She is in the top 10 and it is a win for me in the top 10
and I am in the semifinals against Graf, so I am happy with the
way I am playing.  First and foremost, I think I am playing some
good tennis that I haven't played in a long time and, you know,
I have to be pleased with that.

 Q.  How hard was it waiting and waiting and waiting and waiting?

 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It was pretty tough.  I was going  to hit
a little earlier this morning, around 10:00, 10:30. I came out
around that time and it just started to rain right then; just
waiting in my hotel room and I have a lot of people, my mom and
my sister and her husband's and a friend and just so many people
in my hotel room, I was just sitting there and going a little
bit nuts and really just wanting to play after waiting so long,
and, you know, now I have to go play doubles tonight again and
hopefully I will be rested for tomorrow night.  I mean, it is
tough because I actually didn't -- I thought it was going to keep
raining at 3-Love when we stopped, but I really just wanted to
play.  I think that was a good attitude for me to have.

 Q.  Was it raining at 3-Love or was the court just slippery?

 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It was raining and the problem is that those
lines are very slippery even when it is not wet.  We both commented
that we had slid in the beginning of the week and the court was
getting slick.  They kept telling us the men were playing on the
outside courts; that is when we kind of decided we would go out
and try.  As soon as we went back out to try and play, it stopped
raining altogether so we got lucky I guess.

 Q.  What do you think about Steffi?  You have played her before.

 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I haven't played her, now, I think  it has
been exactly two years since I played her at Lipton. Obviously
she is the No. 1 player in the world and an unbelievable player.
 It is getting very tough.  I think, you know, I am playing pretty
well. I don't know if -- how good a shot I have.  But I think
I can play pretty well.  I am not underestimating myself at all.
 I know she has had a little bit of problems with injuries; hasn't
played many matches and I hope if I serve well, I think it could
be a close match.

 Q.  Are you at all worried about fatigue now having to go
out and play doubles again and then come back?

 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I don't think so.  It has happened a couple
of times.  In Sidney I had to play very late into Friday night
and Saturday night and had the finals on Sunday and doubles also
on Sunday.  I do have tomorrow night and I can sleep in, sleep
all day and get ready for that.  I mean, I'd like to hope that
either way we don't have a long doubles match and it doesn't rain.


 Q.  Are you at all disappointed with the year you had last
year and do you consider this a trying to get back-on-track-year?

 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I was so happy when Fed Cup was over had.
 I had a ton of injuries; a lot of stuff going on.  I thought
in my mind, tenniswise, I had a very poor year in that it made
me very hungry and to practice hard and to really try and get
into good shape again and try and play good tennis  again, which
I thought I was capable of.  And I really couldn't wait until
Australia came and after Australia took another five weeks off
practicing for this tournament and practicing very hard again
and I think it is paying off, I hope.

 End of FastScripts........            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT