STATE FARM EVERT CUP
March 12, 1996
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Is this the new Lindsay Davenport game; a little serve and
volley and --

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Oh, God. I try to do it a lot today because
she really only slices her backhand; that, sometimes, is easier
to come in on than, you know, someone who hits hard off both sides.
You know, my next match, I probably won't come in as much because
either who I play, Rubin or Capriati, their game is the same type
of game and their balls don't float; a lot of these slices float,
but not -- yeah, it is definitely -- I have been working on a
lot the last two months, and I was pretty happy. I did miss some
pretty easy balls, but I guess I will start making them.

Q. It kind of fits in to what you were saying about Wimbledon.

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, definitely. Like I said, I think Wimbledon
is a good shot for me of all the Slams. If I play like the way
I did today, always coming in and looking to come in, that is
the way you have to play there.

Q. What happened after the end of the first set? You started
to spray shots like --

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, thank you. (LAUGHTER) I was playing really
well, and I just kind of lost it. She started playing better too,
but I just didn't find the court too much, and let her back in
the match; lost my concentration, and -- but I got back into it;
saved a couple of set points and fought out the tiebreaker which
was good. Like I didn't get down once. It got to 5-All; stayed
in there, and was able to close it finally in the second.

Q. You talk about wanting to come in, wanting to come in. Can't
you force yourself to discipline yourself to do it or are you
always going to wait for the opportunity?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think today's match was a positive step in
that way because I was always coming in, trying to come in and
always telling myself, move forward, even if you miss the shot,
because at least, you know, the momentum is going in. I was raised
to be a baseliner; always staying back. It is hard. People think
with my size if I have a big or decent serve, I should have serve
and volley. In the women's game, they return very well. You have
to get down really well and get really nimble and very quick;
that is not one of my best traits. I am learning to cover the
net better and better, and you know, first hit a good groundstroke,
you know, good approach shot; I am trying to work on more coming
in on the right shots. 

Q. Seems like it is a huge generalization, but sometimes when
the women don't they get burned; then they go right back --

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Right.

Q. I guess you should accept getting passed every now and then?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think women pass very well. I think most
of the players are great groundstrokers. 95% of the women are
baseliners, so they are going to pass you sometimes, and the thing
is, if you come in on the right deep balls, and with my pace,
then, hopefully, a lot of times they won't be able to set up and
hit the shots they want to hit. Maybe I could catch them off guard.
That is what I have to do or want to do.

Q. Since you may be playing her, could you talk a little bit
about Jennifer's game, and how you feel her comeback level is?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Actually I have not seen her play a point.
I played after her the other day, and she won in like 35 minutes
or something. So I am definitely going to watch the match tonight.
I think it can only be a positive story, if when she comes back,
you know, I think she has gone through a lot of troubles and to
come back to a life that is very, you know, demanding, but, but
gave her a lot of success, can only be a positive story. She seems
like she is a totally different person than when she was off the
Tour, and she seems very just kind of, maybe, at peace with herself,
and just, you know, it is amazing that she came back from those
circumstances like Monica, and, you know, I am definitely going
to watch the match tonight and try and scout a little bit about
how --

Q. Is it the same game basically?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I think they both play the same game;
hit hard. Chanda has a huge forehand. I think that was evident
at the Australian Open and good serve and I think Jennifer is
so solid off both sides. They both move well and hit ball hard.
I kind of like that. I like playing hard hitters, so, you know,
it is a good draw. It is going to be a great match tonight and
hopefully tomorrow also.

Q. What has changed on the Tour in terms of styles since she
has gone? Has the power been stepped up a little bit?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think so. I think she was out for 2 1/2 years.
I think there are definitely a lot more harder hitters. Maybe
some of the girls can now get her balls back because they are
used to playing girls that hit harder more often. I think she
was playing -- there was like a group of girls that hit hard now.
I think there is a larger group that hit hard, and are at the
top of their game. I think the game is probably sped up a bit,
but I think she is doing great. Her first tournament back, she
is doing well and, obviously, here, she doing well. 

Q. Monica had a little bit of a grace period while the players
adjusted to her style even though they had seen her play before.
Do you think Jennifer will get that?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: What do you mean grace period?

Q. Meaning players needed to see her play before they can become
adjusted to the way she plays and understand --

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I heard that -- I have always heard her
backhand is better. A girl that played her in Essen said her forehand
was as big as Steffi Graf's, so I don't know. Her backhand is
an extremely solid shot. I think everybody knows that. I think
her forehand is a weapon, but maybe the shot that she misses a
little bit more. I think people are going to get used to her game,
but that doesn't mean anything. They might get used to her balls
being hit hard, and deep, but, you know, she is playing well.
She is probably extremely tough to beat. So I don't think that
matters.

Q. Are players talking about her?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: You know, actually, I don't think they are
that much. Honestly, here, it is pretty tough because no one really
hangs out here because everyone stays here, but I think a lot
of people talked about Monica and how remarkable it was, but I
think people are just, you know, letting Jennifer grow, but this
is my first tournament with her. Like I said, players -- I haven't
really seen a lot of players. Everyone is kind of doing their
own thing here, so, maybe, but I haven't been in a conversation
where someone has asked me about her.

Q. There isn't any air of hostility; is there?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No. No, I think that she is going on her way.
I don't think players are making as big a deal about it. They
are just letting her play, and I don't think anyone is bothering
her saying, you know, bad things, to my knowledge.

Q. Do you think people are still kind of waiting and seeing
if she will stay and stick with it?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I think she tried to come back before
and then it went away again and I think people are just kind of
letting her play, and going to see what happens; kind of like
what she is doing; kind of playing it by ear. I think players
aren't expecting anything, you know, like, you know, that she
is going to lose or win. I think they are just waiting to see
what happens pretty much.

Q. To change it slightly, did you see Venus Williams play?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I didn't see her play at all here. I think
this tournament is extremely tough because there are so many fun
things to do and nobody is on the courts.

Q. With all the pools and golf courses.....

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, bikes, I saw Anke Huber rollerblading
before she went home again and I think -- I mean, it is just so
nice. The weather has been great, so I don't think anyone has
been watching the matches. I think in a lot of indoors tournaments
there is not much that that much to do.... Not here.

Q. Tough for you to come out and play?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, like what time do we have to hit? Yesterday,
I had a day off. I was, "do we have to hit?" 

Q. It has started to feel crowded now that the men are here?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah. The first couple of days were nice, but
it is nice, it is nice to go play on the clubhouse court and have
it be packed. It is kind of maybe a bummer to play in that huge
stadium and not have that many people there. It is fun to play
on the outside courts and have the fans getting into it. It is
definitely hard to walk out there. I, normally, would do it, but
a lot of people are there, and not just -- it is just so crowded.
I think that is good.

Q. Scheduling practice times, it is getting jammed?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: This morning we shared a court. I practiced
with Lindsay Lee; shared it with two guys. That is always awkward
no matter what, so it is a little rough.

End of FastScripts........ 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT