WTA TOUR CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 15, 1995
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Lindsay, how do you feel about the way you played and what was she doing that presented problems tonight?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, I think it was a pretty good match.  I thought that I really had to go far to hit winners to win.  She is a tough player.  She gets a lot of balls back. And she plays a lot of different spins on the ball.  So you never really get a rhythm on her. 
 

Q.  Is it in a way tough to play Gabriela at home, in the states, because people like her?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, I think it's tough to play her anytime, normally, any place.  I think she's probably the most, behind Steffi, the most popular player on the tour.  She always has a lot of support wherever she plays.  She's a tough player for me to play game-wise.  I've had a little bit of success against her, but normally she's played very smart against me. And I've never really -- like I said, I've had success a couple of times, but she's dominated a little more. 
 

Q.  What did you see on the set point, first set?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  From when I was at the net, it looked  wide.  When I was looking up on the replay it looked in.  So I don't know.  I don't know, I thought I played a good point.  I could have done a couple things differently in the first set to make it closer.  It should have been 5-all.  The one point shouldn't have made a difference, at that point.  I don't know whether the ball was in or not. 
 

Q.  Can you look back on the year, you've solidified your position in the top ten?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It's been a tough year.  I'm glad the year is over now.  I've had a bad back the last couple of weeks, and just -- if it was a good year, a consistent performance, I think considering that I never really felt that great going out there on the court.  And I'm really excited looking forward to next year.  I'm glad to get a couple of weeks off and start for next year. 
 

Q.  I don't know if it was asked, but were you sorry to play her right away, considering the stage of last year?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, she's a difficult opponent to play -- for me to play.  So I wasn't happy with the draw.  But I wasn't seeded this year, that was my own fault for not being in the top eight when the draw came out.  So I knew I was going to get a tough draw.  I could have played Steffi first round. But I probably would have preferred another player. 
 

Q.  How do you feel about the possible boycott with the Australian Open.  You are involved as a member of the board? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I said a couple of weeks ago I would support a boycott if that was the decision the WTA TOUR came to.  I don't know what that final decision has been.  I think it's tough because we all want to play there.  And I've always had a lot of success there.  But hopefully, they can reach an agreement with the players -- players are still happy to go in the situation.  I think there were some meetings this year, I don't know what the decision was. 
 

Q.  What would be the disadvantage of the boycott?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I think there's a lot of disadvantages to a boycott.  I think, you know, it's a Grand Slam tournament.  And I think it's going to be damaging for the tournament and for the tour, too.  We have a new sponsor, us not playing isn't the right -- I don't think it's the right solution.  I think the two sides have to work together so we cannot boycott.  I think the Australian fans want to see Steffi and Gabby.  And I think they want to see most womens' matches. 
 

Q.  Do you think if a decision is made ultimately to boycott, everyone will support it or there will be people who won't?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  There was a lot of support on it.  I don't think there's going to be a boycott.  I think the discussions the last couple of days have been very positive to where we would go with a different agreement with Tennis Australia.  But I think for the first time a lot of players  have come together on this and are supporting each other, and really sticking behind and being strong together.  So I would hope that any decision we came to everyone would support regardless of what their real feelings were. 
 

Q.  Talk about a little about your move to Florida and do you get to practice with Mary Joe and Gabby if she's down there.  Do you ever practice with them?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, I have got an apartment in Miami about a month ago.  And I practice there a lot.  Mary Joe is there, and she practices with me almost everyday.  I don't think I've been there when Gabby's been there.  Maybe that's what I need to, practice with her more, I don't know.  Yeah, there's a lot of young process that are down there at the Player Development Center, USTA, maybe I'll get used to those courts for Lipton. 
 

Q.  You've dropped five sets in a row in this venue.  I hate to bring up bad news.  But what would you do differently?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I dropped a lot of sets in a row to Gabby.  I think with Gabby, I thought I only had a shot when I was taking the ball early and coming in.  And I was okay with success with that some of the time, other times I wasn't.  I had a lot bit of trouble reaching for balls.  A little bit with my back.  But just some of the -- I did not return serve well, and I needed to do that and put pressure on her and sometimes I did and other times I just made dumb errors.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT