U.S. OPEN
August 31, 1995
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. You hadn't played her in two years. Was there anything about her performance today
that surprised you?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: God, you know, she played an unbelievable first set, and hit all
sorts of great shots, good volleys, good groundstrokes. She didn't make very many errors.
The first set was over then, you know, I got killed. So I was a little, you know, a little
more nervous; then you get a little more tentative on your shots. I probably didn't make
her play many balls, but when she was killing me, I felt like I needed to attack her back;
mine were missing. 
 
Q. Do you feel like she is playing some kind of mystical inspired tennis?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, I think today she did. I think she played -- you know, the
other day I think she may have been down matchpoint, I am not sure. I know it was 7-6 in
the third. She probably didn't play as well then, I would imagine, but she definitely
played inspired today. I don't know. I guess she -- I don't know if this is her last one,
I don't know if she decided not to quit. 
 
Q. I am sure after today she decided not to quit?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I actually heard before she decided not to retire, but she's isn't
going to stop, so .... 
 
Q. Do you have any advice for her?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No, I mean, she served really, really well today. I didn't get many
second serves until the second set. And, you know, she keeps playing like that, it is
going to be very tough to beat her. I was expecting her not to serve maybe as well, to
give me a few more easier serves, and she was hitting her second serves at 89 or 85 which
is pretty high for second serves. 
 
Q. I guess, more in the cosmic sense, any career advice for her?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think it should be the opposite. No, I don't think she should
quit. I think -- I think she is one of the greatest ladies in the game. She gives so much
back to charity and everything else. She has always been very nice to me, very, you know,
pleasant to everybody that I know, and I know I don't want her to leave. I hope she stays. 
 
Q. The Women's Tour, is it hard to play against people you admire or like?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think so. You know, I watched her play when she beat Chris Evert
here in'88, I think it was and, you know, then all of a sudden I am out here or -- so that
is a little bit tough, but there is a few players left on the Tour that I really watch.
When I was growing up, she is one of them, but, you know, that shouldn't affect my play,
but I don't know if it did or not. 
 
Q. Lindsay, you seem to have your greatest trouble against your friends, Mary Joe,
Zina. Are you too nice?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No -- I don't know about that. I know -- it is hard for me to get
very psyched up with people that I like and respect, but, you know, I have to learn to do
that. 
 
Q. How do you learn to do that?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I don't know. Do you have any advice? I mean, it is a lot easier to
beat someone who, you know; you don't think about a lot, but for me anyways --  
 
Q. You put Zina in that category?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, I definitely respect her. She had to go through a lot when she
grew up playing. Like I said, I think she is the person on the tour that gives the most
back to charity and underprivileged children. And she is the role model for everybody. 
 
Q. Do you like this tournament --
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I never do too well here. Yeah, it is tough conditions, and, you
know, I was hoping -- I practiced a lot; was working very hard for this year and came in
here, I thought pretty well. But, you know, you play one like she did today, and it is
just very disappointing. 
 
Q. Does she play the same as when you remember her when you were growing up and
watching her or has she changed her --
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think so. She really went for it today; was hitting it really hard
on the forehand and her slices. I seen matches in the past where she gets tentative and
kind of blocks the ball back. Today she didn't do that. I imagine when she was at the top,
at the height of women's tennis, that she was hitting the ball like she was today.  
 
Q. Is it realistic, do you think she has a chance to really go far in this tournament?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I don't know how far. I don't know who she plays next, but
definitely she can have some more upsets like she -- if she played like she did today; if
she is very loose and very relaxed and just going for it, yeah, I definitely think she can
go far. 
 
Q. Do you have a cold?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah. 
 
Q. Was that any kind of a factor today?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I don't know. I have had a cold for the last couple of days, sore
throat. I don't know if that affects the tennis. Hopefully I can still hit tennis ball, if
I can't breath -- I mean, breathe through my nose. 
 
Q. Did she look to you like she was playing very relaxed, like she had nothing to lose?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Definitely. I expected that she would come in a little bit on fire
and going for it and she did. I thought maybe at the end, you know, I probably didn't make
her play enough balls at the end, and make her really earn the match. I felt like I had to
attack back and felt very rushed and definitely that hurt me.  
 
Q. She plays Nicole Arendt and possibly play Conchita?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Nicole Arendt could be a tough match for her, good lefty serve,
comes in a lot. If she can keep Nicole maybe pinned to the baseline, she has a good
chance, returns well. 
 
Q. And Conchita?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Gosh, that will be a tough match. I know Conchita passes pretty
well. But like I said, if Zina is hitting the ball hard and deep like she was today, she
can hopefully keep on playing like that. 
 
Q. When was the last time you could remember feeling fully well either physically or --
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: That could be a tough question to answer. Gosh. Probably in
Australia, maybe. It has been a really tough year. I had a lot of sicknesss and then
injuries, just hasn't been the greatest year for myself after coming off a good end of the
year last year, and pretty good beginning of the year. You know, keep hanging in there,
and I am getting better and one of these days..... 
 
Q. What is your coaching situation; are you still -- 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, this -- for the last couple of months, I have been with Lynn
Rolley, of the USTA working out with Eric Amend. That has been going very well. I have
been living in Miami; practicing also with Mary Joe and Harold Solomon, and that is what
is going on now. 
 
Q. Still plan to get someone full-time?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No. I am very happy with Lynn and hitting with Eric and going with
them. I have been having a lot of fun. Unfortunately, I haven't been, you know, feeling
the best and injury free, so, you know, when everything is straightened out, hopefully,
everything will start going smoothly. 
 
Q. What is the best and worst part of being the leading American woman?
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: The worst part is definitely feeling like you did today when you
want to do well in your own country and in front of, you know, in your Grand Slam, and in
the tournament, that is a tough feeling. I put a lot of pressure on myself to do well here
every year, and it hasn't exactly worked out yet. The best part is, I take a lot of pride
in that and, you know, even with Monica back, I think, I am still in the top 10,
second-ranked American now, and, you know, not too many people get to that position. 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT