VIRGINIA SLIMS CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 20, 1994
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Lindsay, it didn't seem to be you on the court today? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No, it wasn't the same Lindsay that's been here all week.  You know, unfortunately, you know, I was just playing so well, and I think when I didn't start off that well, I got a little frustrated, but she was part of the reason.  She was chipping balls low; and topspining them high; and hitting them short, hitting them deep, and I couldn't get a rhythm and so she was definitely one of the major reasons. 


Q.  Lindsay, is there any chance that you got caught up in the moment? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I don't think so.  I was as relaxed as I've been in the other matches and I was feeling good, and, you know, I'm sure it's possible, you know, couple of the shots that I missed early on, I got a little nervous and tentative to go for them again and then I started rushing, and so, it was definitely a big moment, and she handled it much better, much more experience, so... 


Q.  Lindsay, she was able to break you six straight times? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Oh yeah, this was not one of my better serving or holding days.  I had hardly been broken until this match and she was playing, breaking my serve, like, no problem, every game, no problem, and that was getting really frustrating and, you know, obviously that's probably why I couldn't win.  I couldn't hold my serve.  I really don't know why I didn't serve that well, but I'm still making a fair amount of first serves in and she was just returning them really well and didn't give me the second ball that I liked during my other matches. 


Q.  Lindsay, do you find it difficult for -- to understand how she's gone for so long without winning and do you give her credit for sort of hanging in there? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Oh, yeah.  I think so many people wrote her off and so many people gave her what they thought was advice and everyone seems like to have their opinion on Gaby, and Gaby kind of weathered the storm and, you know, kept on trying and kept on playing and I do find it a little odd why she hasn't gone without a title.  I think she lost a lot of confidence and maybe she, you know, just was listening to some things that she shouldn't have, I don't know.  But, I think it's great that she's back on top.  Obviously, I would have liked to win, but she's a good girl.  I'm glad she won -- I'm -- I mean, I'm glad it was someone I liked. 


Q.  Do you want to tell us who you don't... 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I can't answer that. 


Q.  From a tennis point of view, like, how do you explain like, you know, we have often written, it's been said, if she could serve, she'd be the hardest player-- is that what it is? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It also depends what day you get her on.  Maybe if I played her yesterday, I would have won.  I don't know.  Because I was playing well yesterday.  Her serve today, she was going for it completely, second serves too, second serves some at 90 and did not hit one kick serve like she normally has in the past, so, she gave me some doublefaults, but once again, I got no rhythm and never had a chance to hit the ball and come in. She's so sound from the baseline and she didn't really come in like I thought she would. Although, didn't really get that close to where she'd have to-- I think with her, it's confidence and, you know, I think if anything is going to give it to her, this will. 


Q.  Lindsay, when you looked around during the ceremony at all the champions, did it ever dawn on you that you could be there too? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  That was a great feeling.  I didn't know where to stand and kind of felt a little out of place up there.  But, yeah, I mean I thought that was great to have all those champions on one court and I think they all won here at the Garden and that was a great feeling, and, you know, maybe some day I'll be up there.  I don't know.  I got a long way to go, I think.  Lot more years, too. 


Q.  Lindsay, you are a young player, just rising up, and Martina is just retiring in this tournament, can you say that you learned anything from her or do you -- she was a player you saw -- 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Right, Martina has really been a great person for tennis and been one of my role models for sure.  We play, obviously, different styles of game, but she's a great person and she'll always tell what she thinks.  If I could ask her opinion on anything, she'd give it to me and, you know, I wish she wasn't leaving the game.  She's so great, the crowd loves her, but, obviously, she feels it's time to go on, but she's still involved in women's tennis and I am.  That's good for us.  I think we're lucky. 


Q.  Lindsay, after you lost the first two sets, then you went ahead in the third, what was going through your head at that time? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  After I lost the first two sets, I looked over at my coach and said," okay let's see if I can go five", and that was kind of a joke, but I didn't get a chance to go four.  So -- but I was trying to get on top, but like I said, I missed some shots and then I started rushing and thought I had to hit a winner on the third ball, and all week long I'd been playing well and hitting my shots and today I just didn't feel comfortable with it. .  You know, that's tennis. One day you can play great and next day, today happens.  So, you keep hanging in there. 


Q.  How did you prepare for this; we heard you went to a Knicks game last night? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, maybe that wasn't -- maybe I won't do that next time.  I still have to try to enjoy myself, but I wasn't going to go to bed at 8:00 and start freaking out about the match, but, no, we got great seats to the Knicks game, right on the floor and I'd never been to a basketball game so I was a little in awe looking at all these tall guys and -- then we went out for breakfast this morning be -- no, I'm glad I did that, that had nothing to do it with it.  Just trying to stay relaxed. 


Q.  When do you start looking towards Australia and how is that going to be for your season next year? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I started off this year really well and immediately had a lot of good results and I've always played well in Australia and kind of enjoyed it and this was a great tournament for me and I've work really hard before here and that showed me, you know-- that it does pay off and so for the next couple weeks I'm going to continue to work hard and work on what I need to work on; my fitness and some shots and we'll see what happens in Australia.  Maybe we'll see what I do do there. 


Q.  You talked about Sabatini and her confidence; when she gets confident what does she do, what do you see out there? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, she's so talented she can hit angles and today she was just hitting the ball down the line really hard and really going for it and making it.  You know, she can do -- when she has her confidence, she can do almost anything. She comes in well, she played the back court well today, she's tough to beat when she's feeling good and unfortunately for me she felt really good today. 


Q.  What was the most significant learning experience for you today? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, obviously this was by far my biggest tournament and my best result.  Learning experience:  You know, I just, it would help if I had a little more experience in this situation.  I made a lot of errors and I was pretty nervous and if I could -- maybe if I get in this position a little more, I'll feel a little more calm and relaxed out there, but this week has taught me, you know, that, you know, I really like tennis and especially when you're playing well and I had a little rough time after the Open in tennis and, did I enjoy it?  And did I like it?  And I worked hard through that and this is what it's for. 


Q.  Were the nerves before or after you got behind? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Oh, no, before.  I mean, when the match starts you feel a little bit better and you a little -- they go away a little, but I was pretty nervous way more nervous today than the other matches. 


Q.  Did you feel strange at all playing a third set after losing the first two? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No, I was kind of excited.  I wanted it to go at least four to say I did something and I wanted to go five, but obviously she didn't let me.  But it felt good.  I didn't think -- I was really freaking out last night and this morning, going three out of five, and I freaked out about it way too much.  I think I was more worried about that than the actual match.  Obviously, we didn't go five sets, so I couldn't tell you how tired I would be there. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT