VIRGINIA SLIMS CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 19, 1994
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Lindsay, a little bit of breezing out there; hit the ball; play for an hour; win the match. 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I really don't know what's happening this week.  You know, I've never been able to continue to play well, and every time I warm up and before the matches, I felt fine, you know, like, you know, I'm playing well and I'm moving better and, you know, really anticipating well so everything is going well.  
 

Q.  Seemed like for somebody who hasn't played in this tournament before, coming to the Garden, all that it would seem like you'd have nerves, but it didn't seem to phase you at all. 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, it is a real relaxing tournament because, you know, it's the best players so it is not a bad loss.  If they play well, you can't do anything about it, and everything really was a bonus.  I've tried to go out there and go for it and try your best and if it doesn't work out, that's fine, you're still a great player.  
 

Q.  Lindsay, when they made the announcement at the start of the match to introduce the players, you were sort of standing there, we could see it on television, were you sort of amused by this, semifinals -- 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No, I mean, I was laughing at some other things, but, no, like I said, I felt very calm, kind of comfortable out there which, you know, I like this court.  I didn't like Philadelphia-- I think it's the same surface-- but I'm playing well and it is a great crowd here.  Playing in New York and at the Garden and it's just really comfortable.  I don't know.  
 

Q.  Were you sort of containing an-all-to-win nothing to lose attitude? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I think so.  There really isn't anything to lose.  Like I said, the best players, if you lose, you know, against Novotna and Pierce, I have -- I had to go for it.  I'm not going to win by not playing aggressively and lettign them dictate, so, I really went for it and I'm really on my game right now.  
 

Q.  Could you comment on how you will approach the final? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah -- three out of five.  That's the first thing.  I'm going to have to worry about that before the opponent.  It depends who I play. If I play Gaby, you know, I played her a lot of times before, and -- really I just have to concentrate on my game; how I'm going to feel; if I'm ready for it; and that's always how it's pretty much been.  If I start worrying about the other player, that throws my game off.  So, I have to worry -- first about myself.  
 

Q.  Was it realistic at the start of the tournament for to you think about yourself getting to the finals; was it in your mind that you really had a good chance? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I don't think so, you know, I'd like -- I liked the draw.  I have a terrible record against Steffi and terrible record against Arantxa.  So, I was kind of far from both of them, so the other players I haven't played too often. So I was glad when I saw the draw and excited that I can do something not really knowing how far really.  
 

Q.  I guess you were taking this tournament as a measuring stick to see how far you progressed over this year? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I think so.  My first time here and to really go out in the year doing well.  You know, we have got another seven weeks until my next tournament so might at as well finish on a good note.  
 

Q.  Last game first set Mary started to pick up the pace, long game, did you feel that was a determinant right there? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  You never know with Mary, she hits the ball so hard, I was kind of worried that she was going to go for it and making the winners and hitting the lines, and like I said, she was late on a lot of balls and not on top of her game. Some of it had to do with me and getting the ball back deep, but you are never safe playing a player that goes in and out of streaks because 5-3 she goes on a streak could win five straight games so I was fortunate to close it out when I could.  
 

Q.  With Martina retiring you are the top ranked American; do you think that's going to make a difference to you next year.  Do you think you'll be affected by carrying the burden of American hopes? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I hope not.  I think I've gotten a little more used to it the last couple-- at the Open, it was overwhelming because Martina didn't play and I was the highest American, but I kind of accepted it and now I'm kind of excited for Americans tennis because myself, I've done very well this year, but there's a lot of other players that just need to get on a roll and there will be a lot of us out up there, so I don't think I have all the burden but right now, it's fine.  
 

Q.  Can you tell us how you've been filling your time in between-- obviously you -- can you tell us -- 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, you know, this is the first day match, obviously, but when we were playing the night matches I went to Greenwich Village in So Ho and shopping and I saw a movie the other night and it's just, you can walk around the streets.  L.A. you can't walk -- in New York can you walk around the streets and go shopping, we went to Fifth Avenue and bought Christmas presents and it's just -- you don't get board.  I don't think it's possible whatever you do.  And that's probably why.  You know, there's not a lot of players here and not a lot of traffic, with tennis players and it's so much more relaxed here than at a Grand Slam where you jump on court for 20 minutes and you have -- it's just so much nicer here.  
 

Q.  Can you tell us about your feeling about the final game -- 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, obviously I was very nervous, I wanted to serve it out I didn't want to be in a position to possibly serve for it at 5-4.  So she came to the net and I was able to hit couple good passing shots kind of saved me in that game.  And really, you know, I served well again today. Maybe you know I'm not getting broken very much, I don't know if I did -- I don't think so.  But you know, that's just be the key and I'm having confidence every time I go up to serve a game and so I felt I could serve it out but just, you know, not start hitting the fence and doublefaults.  
 

Q.  Can you think of the last time you played this many consecutive really solid matches? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I don't know.  Not really in the pros. I'd have a good win and then, you know, I've had my good win, I don't -- it's okay if I lose now and that's kind of the attitude I had for a while.  I'm getting over that, I think or at least this is a start.  
 

Q.  It's been since the juniors, then? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Probably.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT