VIRGINIA SLIMS CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 18, 1994
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Lindsay, you were just accused of playing out of your mind; what does that mean to you? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, I guess that's a compliment. Yeah, I really -- so far as this week, I really just played really well.  I felt really relaxed the whole week, and, you know, I started off and I really was trying to concentrate well in the beginning to get on top of her because I know, you know, if I was returning her serve well and attacking, she might get a little more nervous and give me some doublefaults, and so, you know, that's how I was.  But I was just, you know, just ready for every ball, like, hitting them really early, which was important.  
 

Q.  Why are you so relaxed?  It is a big occasion? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I don't know, I don't know, I've been having a lot of fun in practice, just kind of hitting balls and, you know, it's just such an easy atmosphere, not a lot of players, not a lot of rush.  So, you just take it easy in the day and I've been going shopping and saw some movies and, I don't know, I like it.  Is not like the Open where everything is kind of a madhouse and you've got to go 45 minutes through traffic and here it's like 15 minutes you're here, you hit, your done, you wait for your match.  
 

Q.  Do you remember the first time you watched the Slims Championships, maybe on TV? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I don't.  I remember watching a three out of five set final in five sets with Gaby and Monica, I remember that match.  Maybe that one just stood out because I remember saying, God, five sets.  But none of the other matches stick out.  
 

Q.  You realize, of course, if you win tomorrow -- 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  God, I know, I thought about that yesterday and we said, well, if you're up two sets to Love, you got it; if you are down two sets to Love, just hit it as hard as you can.  I still have a tough match before I have to worry about that one.  
 

Q.  How do you think you'll match-up with Pierce? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I think it's pretty interesting because we play the same type of game.  We both, you know, obviously are hard hitters, not the fastest people alive and it's an interesting match-up.  It's going to really depend on who is on top of their game more.  So, I think it is a little bit harder to call.  She played not so great against Coetzer and I heard she played unbelievable last night, so, I don't know what to expect.  
 

Q.  What's your confidence level now in regard to even winning this tournament? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I'm feeling very good right now.  I've played Mary once this year and won.  Not that that means anything, but I feel good, I'm not -- I don't feel like I have no shot.  I feel like I have a good shot winning this tournament looking at who is left and, you know, I've got to see what happens tomorrow.  
 

Q.  In the juniors, you also played her; is that right? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I think I did.  Maybe, like -- I mean, in the 12 and unders or something, but I think she left the United States then.  So -- I played her I think once in the 12s.  You have to look at the USTA book for that one.  
 

Q.  It seems like as outgoing as you are off the court, that you show very little emotion on the court; were you influenced at all by Chris Evert? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  You know, when I was young, you know, I used to kind of have a bad attitude and yell a lot.  And my dad referees volleyball-- used to referee volleyball, and he used to tell, me whatever you do, do not question an umpire or referee's opinion.  So I don't argue.  I argued once and he about took my head off because he said that's not the polite thing to do and the other thing is I'm kind of outgoing, but kind of a little shy, you know, maybe in front of people that I don't know, and so on the court I kind of -- I'm a little more quiet, and more introverted.  
 

Q.  How surprised are you, if at all, of the ease of how you moved into the semis, not only have you won, but you won relatively easy? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I thought I was playing well when I came in here.  I lost early in Philadelphia, but felt like I was still hitting the ball well when I got a chance to play a point and you know I was really trying to take it kind of easy, you know, coming in here and not put a lot of pressure on myself and, you know, like, I made the championships for the first time, enjoy it and that's the kind of attitude I've had all week and I'm very surprised a how well I'm winning these matches.  Maybe -- I'm just feeling really good right now.  
 

Q.  Did the fact that you and Mary are the two top teenagers add extra spice tomorrow; do you see your rivalry with her developing over the years? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I don't know, I think it is a pretty interesting match-up because we are pretty similar and, you know, about the same age and, you know, kind of American, I guess, both of us.  I don't know what's going to happen.  Both of us obviously have to stay healthy the next couple years.  Could depend on how each of us do, but I think it will be interesting.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT