U.S. OPEN
September 3, 1994
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Lindsay, you look tired, were you? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I didn't feel really physically tired. I have been a little sick,
not that had anything to do with it. But, I just didn't really, you know, move well and it
was a little hard to catch my breath and, you know, she was, you know, taking every shot.
I hit and she came back with one better. That is tough to play against.  
 
Q. Do you feel like you were fighting the conditions a little bit out there too? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, really windy. First set I couldn't really figure it out and
second set it was a lot worse on the one side. I'd swing my hardest and the ball would hit
the service line, and the other side you'd touch it and it would hit the baseline. So, you
know, I just -- I don't think I moved that well. I made so many unforced errors, so many
service returns. I just missed in the first set and in the beginning of the second set I
should have broken her more than once, but I just made so many unforced errors.  
 
Q. Do you think that match tells you anything about improvements you have got to make
to your game? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I mean, every loss teaches you something. Today it is just one of
those days. I really couldn't get my legs into the balls and really get behind them and I
just -- you know, some days you just don't feel that great. I warmed up good and I thought
I was playing well. I got out there and it didn't happen.  
 
Q. You said just now that every loss teaches you something. Is the converse not true,
that is to say every win teaches you also something? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I guess it is true. Most of the time when I lose, I learn a little
bit more about what I need to do and what I need to improve on, so, for me...  
 
Q. Did your injury bother you at all? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No, my leg is fine. My leg didn't hurt at all.  
 
Q. Had you ever had coaches try and make you go to the net more because you are tall? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, you know, I think I should come into the net more, but I just
don't feel -- I just don't move around very well up at the net. And I don't feel like
maybe I am nimble enough to go cover those volleys. I don't feel comfortable going back
for overheads yet, so it is hard. Maybe if I can get a little faster, a little more
comfortable and confident in myself I will be able to do that a little bit better.  
 
Q. Do you think that is an important thing or do you think that is overstated? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No, I think for me it is extremely important. I think today you need
-- to beat a player like that by coming in. I just didn't feel comfortable coming in, and
covering the passing shots, so. . .  
 
Q. That is your ultimate goal to be a serve and volleyer? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Not necessarily a serve and volleyer, because I hit good
groundstrokes, but to be able to come in when I need to, just pretty much an all-around
player.  
 
Q. Like Sampras? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: He is pretty much a serve and volleyer. Yeah, like Sampras. I think
everyone wants to be like him.  
 
Q. When you broke back in the second set, did you think that you could take the match? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Well, I didn't know, I mean, I was hoping I could take the set and,
you know, I held my serve and then I got on that other side and she just toyed with me
from that other side, you know, I had tried to hit the ball really hard and it wouldn't go
that far and she'd just come there and take it early and put it away. That was really
tough for me to read.  
 
Q. How much -- when she returned a lot of balls, she hit them early, was that a bit
throwing you off balance? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, she took them early and normally -- she is very fast and
normally she has the person on the run, coming in on the baseline, taking it early, and
giving me a lot less time to get to the next ball.  
 
Q. Was the drop shot from the baseline in the tiebreaker a sign of your desperation? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I am sorry.  
 
Q. You hit a drop shot from the baseline-- 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Desperation. I was trying to do something different; maybe change it
up. I was against the wind and it was a good play. I had the forehand and I hit the net,
so...  
 
Q. Were you feeling a little bit of pressure about -- everybody is talking to you being
the top American woman in here. Did you feel any pressure? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I don't know about pressure. I was probably putting a little more
pressure on myself because I wanted to do well here and I really wanted to get far here. I
guess maybe I felt a little bit, but it wasn't like I was saying, oh, my gosh, saying it
like there is so much pressure on me, I wanted to do really well here. I didn't play much
this summer and this was really my goal all year, and it didn't work out, so...  
 
Q. Lindsay, each day you come in here and someone asks you what you need to do to your
game; you keep saying get faster. What do you see yourself having to do to do that? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, well, I don't know, I mean, I am going to go see a specialist
in a couple of weeks and maybe he will tell me what I need to do.  
 
Q. What kind of specialist? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Don Chu. He is a trainer in San Francisco and maybe he can tell me
what I need to do. He knows some secret.  
 
Q. How much of a factor did your injury have today and last couple of weeks not
practicing? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Like I said, it is not hurting at all. That was good. I was
concerned at the time because you know, I wasn't sure, you know, if I would be able to
practice and be able to play here pain free, but I couldn't play for like 13 days, but
then I started practicing and normally if I don't practice a lot, it doesn't bother me
that much. It healed and I don't think it affected me you know, playingwise. Maybe a
little match-tough a little bit. I only played a couple of matches in July, so -- but
nothing like practice or you know, not today, running or anything.  
 
Q. Is Don Chu a medical physician? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, he works with some other players. I think he has worked with
-- I have seen him in the past. He has worked with Jonathan Stark and Jim Grabb and couple
of players gone up to see him.  
 
Q. He is not an acupuncturist or anything exotic like that? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No.  
 
Q. Have other players given you advice along the lines look no matter how good of a
player you are, there are going to be times when you start out, there are going to be ups
and downs; you can't really control it? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Oh, yeah, I think you know, a lot of players been really great. I
talked to Mary Joe a lot and you know yesterday she was like I just didn't play well, but
that happens, so maybe today I will have to say that to her.  
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT