U.S. OPEN
September 1, 1994
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Your first name in the stadium. 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, my first match on the stadium. Actually I played the Arthur
Ashe charity thing on Sunday. That was my first time, you know, on it and today was my
first match.  
 
Q. That doesn't count? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Right.  
 
Q. What is the feeling? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It was great. I am kind of glad I went out there maybe and won, you
know, this year I have played on the stadium court and the other three in singles and lost
all times, so, I played Graf in Australia, last to Halard at the French and Conchita at
Wimbledon. At least I am 1 and 0 on the stadium courts somewhere, right now.  
 
Q. Now that you are out of school, how has that changed your training schedule? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, you know, ever since I have been out of school I have been on
the road. Haven't really been at home very much. When I was injured -- so it will be very
interesting to see after Tokyo, I play the week after the U.S. Open, and then I am home
for about six weeks so I am going to -- I don't know how it is going to be. I hope I have
-- I am going to have a lot more time obviously to do off court stuff, and really work on
my game, so I am kind of excited for that time.  
 
Q. What do you want to do physically? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I definitely want to get faster. I am a good player, but when I play
the top players, they really kind of exploit that weakness pretty easily so far, so you
know, I want to work on that, and we will see what happens.  
 
Q. Lateral speed a particular concern for you? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No, just getting the step faster every way. You know, just getting a
quicker you know, read on the ball and getting to the ball and getting in position for
most of my shots.  
 
Q. Lindsay, what relationship do you have with Pam and how well do you know her? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, Pam is, you know, been actually really great to me the last
about year or two. You know, I mean, I don't know her that well, but we have had -- we had
dinner together at a tournament, I think, in Paris, and, you know, I talked to her, you
know, about the WTA stuff. She is very informative and she -- I like her a lot, but I
don't like call her or anything. I have talked to her quite a bit in the locker room.  
 
Q. Has she taken any special interest in you, do you think because she has been
involved with the Women's Tour as president? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I do not think any special interest.  
 
Q. And like to see you come along? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think she takes -- you know she really wants to see the younger
players get involved more and what happens with our Tour, and to make sure we know
especially what is going on. So I don't think it is just me, but yeah, she tries to help
me figure out what is going on to try and pass the torch in the years to come.  
 
Q. Are there players on the Tour right now that you think you just can't beat at this
stage in your career or do you go out there and -- 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: When I go out to play Steffi and Arantxa it is pretty much an uphill
battle, I feel, you know, I don't think when I go out there, oh, I am going to lose; I am
going to lose, but I don't think, oh, I will be off the court in an hour. I just -- you
try and I really have to be up for those matches and, you know, really play my best tennis
to win. I know that I am going to have to play my best. That is a lot of pressure.  
 
Q. Are those the only two that you think about right now? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Those two are, you know, obviously the best and those two are the
worst to play. The other players I am not so afraid of, not so--  
 
Q. When you go out against somebody like Pam who is obviously much older and has slowed
down a lot, do you go out there thinking I can just do whatever I want out there? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No, I was -- I was, you know, anyone who comes to the net and plays
aggressive tennis -- whoever plays aggressive I am a little bit weary of because they want
to be on the offensive too and I don't like being on the defensive. So going against her,
I have never played her and I didn't really -- I didn't know how, you know, well she was
playing, so I was a little bit nervous -- pretty nervous.  
 
Q. Talk about getting quicker. Do you see yourself going to the net more in the future?

 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, that is where I definitely like to be. I am still trying to
get comfortable with the volleys and it will help definitely if I can be faster up there;
be a little bit more nimble to get to the ball and don't feel so clumsy when I get passed
every time.  
 
Q. Do you have a program for preparing to do that more? I mean, how does one say I am
18 now and how do I get though that point when I am 19 or 20? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I am going to go see a trainer when I get back in San
Francisco, Don Chu, who has worked with the USTA and get on a program and I have about
five or six weeks at home, so I am kind of looking forward to that. I will be able to
train and not have tournaments coming up because I played a lot this year, so I don't know
hopefully by January and maybe the Lipton I will be a little bit better.  
 
Q. Given the importance of finishing high school do you have any strong feelings about
the minimum age, the eligibility rule? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I never was asked anything, but I think that I definitely think it
should be older. I think it should be around 16. I just think at 14, you know, you are not
-- you can't handle everything yourself. You have to have everyone else helping you out
doing it. This is a job. I think when you get out there you should be able to handle
things on your own; not have this person do that and that person do this and really if you
can be a little bit more mature and there is a big difference between 14, 16 especially
for girls, that if they are older and a little smarter and wiser, then I think maybe last
a little longer and but there are some cases where it is individual, but I think it should
older, 16.  
 
Q. Having been through it yourself and having played juniors, do you then wish that
maybe you'd started later? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No, I played the juniors-- that is another thing. I think these
players, they play juniors until they are like 11 and then they turn pro at 14. You don't
know where they went -- I played all the juniors, every age group, every year and that
definitely helped me. I learned there is a lot of pressure in the juniors in the nationals
because they only come one or two a year so you have to play well at those two tournaments
or else you are out of luck, so I think I started -- I turned pro at almost 17 -- 16, and
some odd months, so I think that was fine for myself, I was ready.  
 
Q. Seeing what happened with Jennifer -- you have been around young girls when you were
up playing. Is it really too much pressure from both the parents and agents grabbing at
you; what kind of advice do you give to young girls? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think there can be -- I think you have to know and if the person
who wants something and who is there for you, and who really cares and who maybe doesn't.
And so far, I have been able to distinguish that. You just have to be careful. You know
your family is going to be always looking out for you, you hope, and hopefully your coach
and the people that are around you are really for you and care about you and not really if
you win or lose. But that is tough to find. But you have to remember that it is a game and
if you do lose and maybe you get killed one day, or look stupid or whatever, it happens
you have another tournament the next week.  
 
Q. Is it sad to you though when you see how money drives people? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, especially around this world, you can really tell like people
maybe because they have a lot of money think they are real powerful and I don't know-- it
is sad because there is a lot of money involved in this sport and it does kind of control
a lot of things that happen and it is not right, but that is the way it is, I guess.  
 
Q. Lindsay, you won 9 of the first 10 games today before Pam managed to hold her serve
there. The crowd was applauding almost sympathetically. Did you feel anything for her at
that point or notice her reaction? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I mean, you know, she had told me a couple of months ago that
she might -- she didn't know how much longer she would be playing singles, so when you
know, I did think about it a little bit and but, you know, it was my first time out there
and I want to go on with this tournament. I am very nervous like that, if I am up if, they
break me, hold, even, so it was going through my mind, oh, my gosh, it is 5-All, so I have
a hard time when I am on top to finish out a match. I keep you know, let her back in
sometimes. I was trying to do that which I have been able to do my last couple of matches.
 
 
Q. If you win your next couples of matches you may face Graf. Have you discussed
anything with your coach where you might be able to make some adjustments so she doesn't
string you from side to side and. . . 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No, I haven't -- we haven't said a thing about Steffi Graf or really
anybody yet. With her, I definitely would have to kind of be on the offensive and try not
to let her dictate play, but that is really tough with her serving and her forehand, but
you know, if I get there, then maybe you can ask me then.  
 
Q. What about Halard who you mentioned you lost to at the French? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I guess I am not playing her. They just told me, USA, that she lost.
So I said that on TV. She they said, nope, you are wrong.  
 
Q. You have a very refreshing personality. How have you been able to be staying away
from becoming jaded like a lot of your fellow players? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think I give a lot of credit to the people that are around me;
they don't take anything seriously, you know put me down jokingly and we have fun. No one
is treating me like I am a queen or princess. I don't get what I want at all, ever. I wish
I did. So I just try and, you know, like I said roll with the punches and I know, like I
said, if I lose, I have next week, you know, big deal. Grand Slams, obviously, it's a
little bit more pressure. You kind of have to maybe take some steps back from the tennis
community. I haven't -- this is only my second day here. I haven't really been around--
been in the city and practicing there and, you know, just try to do other things, maybe.  
 
Q. When you play Graf do you find yourself coming out of your game and trying to get
too close to the lines; go for the winners too much? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, same with Sanchez, maybe you try and make it too good. You
have a little bit of fear when you go out and play them. The more you play them, the more
you get used to it, the more you realize that they are not goddesses and maybe -- the more
you play the people-- the top players, the less nervous you get and the more comfortable
you will be.  
 
Q. Have you had matches with either of them where you had periods where, oh, I am going
to play a little safer ball; I can stay with them? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think when I played Steffi at Lipton, I had a couple of set
points; ended up losing the tiebreaker. I felt pretty good out there and, Arantxa, never
had a close set with her, so.  
 
Q. What does she do to you because I didn't see the match but I saw your result against
her at the Fed Cup. 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: That was great.  
 
Q. Does she just retrieve on you all day? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Every time I have played her she has played exceptionally well. She
run downs every ball that I normally would be a winner or good shot she runs it down and
just gets back in the point so fast, you know, and she is always on top; it is like she
knows where my balls are going. She is always there and puts it back into another corner.  
 
Q. Being on the road a long time and looking forward to getting home maybe doing some
off-court stuff. How long have you been on the road and what types of things will you do
to relax? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Not necessarily on the road, but not home long enough. After San
Diego I hurt my leg there. I was home for about almost two weeks, but I couldn't really --
 
 
Q. Roughly you have been on the road a couple of months, do you feel like with some
breaks. . . . 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I have been -- gosh. I come home in short periods, maybe like
a week here and he really for a long time the most I have been-- I have been home more
than two weeks was about April. I am just looking forward to being home for, you know,
four, five weeks. Yes, Bud.  
 
Q. When you go home or when you say you are staying away from the tournament here not
just to hang out in the locker room, what do you do; what are these things that relax you?

 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yesterday -- I love to shop. Yesterday I went shopping Greenwich
Village a little bit and walked around a lot, and when I am at home, you know, it is just
nice to relax and maybe stay up late and watch some movies or go to the movies at
midnight, if you feel like it and here, well, I got to get eight hours of sleep so got to
go to bed. There is no schedule when you are at home really except when you practice, and
that is-- you know, it is nice to be able to just do what you want.  
 
Q. Do you play volleyball? 
 
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No, they have tried to teach me, but I can't jump very high, so it
is not very good.  
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT