U.S. OPEN
August 30, 1994
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Lindsay, do you feel all right at the U.S. Open? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I'm happy, that first match was a little, you know, a little
easy because I was pretty nervous to go out there today, and had to wait a while, but I
felt good once I got out there. It was just getting there that took a while. I was a
little nervous. I'm getting that at home. It's really nice to play a huge tournament in
front of the -- your fans in the U.S. 

Q. How about your audience? How about the public, your audience? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I mean it's nice to have people cheering for you and you feel
a little bit more at home. 

Q. What kind of hopes and -- do you come into a tournament with expectations, hopes for
your own, you know, what you wanted to do at this place? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Coming to this tournament I just really wanted to start off and win
the first couple rounds because I haven't been able to play this summer because I had an
injury, then I got sick and I was a little nervous out there playing for a while. Now I
have to look on. I'm playing well right now and keep going through the rounds and
obviously, I'd Love to play Graf in the quarters. 

Q. What was your injury? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I pulled my calf muscles. 

Q. Both of them? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It was in San Diego. Yeah, both, which was kind of rare. 

Q. Did you have to pull out of a couple tournaments? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I was about to play the quarterfinals in San Diego and I pulled out,
then I pulled out of L.A. and I wanted to play Canada, but I couldn't play Canada, so, now
I'm here. 

Q. So you pulled out of Canada also? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Once I couldn't play L.A., I was hoping to go get in there, but then
I couldn't play there. 

Q. And you got sick this summer as well? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I just had the flu a couple weeks ago, but I'm getting better.


Q. You're kidding? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yes. Well, I was actually just doing normal stuff, went to the
beach. You can't really do much. You can't run with a calf, you can't -- so I just kind of
had a normal summer which was very weird. 

Q. Do you have a feeling here of being the best new American hope or the best American
hope, period, forget about being young or anything like that? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think -- I feel like, you know, I'm the highest American seed, so
it is a little bit more pressure than before because last year I wasn't even seeded here.
So, I don't think the public necessarily expects me to win because I'm still pretty new
and they know more about Mary Joe who also has a good chance to do well and win. So, for
myself, I think I can do really well and get through the first couple rounds. 

Q. What is it like to be the top American seed; you seem so down to earth? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It's very nice, obviously. If Martina had been playing, she would
be, but it's great. It makes me think because I wasn't even seeded and I got here and
found out, wow. I was really happy how far I've come in a year or two. It felt really
good. It was a nice personal achievement, so... 

Q. What makes you enjoy a victory, is it your achievement, being a higher ranked player
or just being nice? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think playing well. When you play well and win you have to feel
nice about yourself -- actually, I take that back. When you don't play your best and can
still win, there's a pretty good feeling. But when you beat a higher ranked player,
especially where I'm at now, where the players who are above me are really good, then, you
know, I haven't beaten many of the top five players. I'm sure that will be a great
feeling, but I haven't done that very much. 

Q. Can you go over this calf muscle pull business; why did that happen? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: The calf muscle is fine. I couldn't play for about 14 days. 

Q. Afterward? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Right. All through San Diego and L.A. and couple days of Canada, I
couldn't play. 

Q. Have you assessed why it happened and initially what brought calf muscles -- 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: You know, I don't. I never had a problem with my calf and someone
thought I was jumping rope too much and they were really tight when I went out there, but
I don't know. 

Q. Did it happen in a match? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, and I finished that match and won and the next day it was
pretty bad. 

Q. The match in San Diego? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah. 

Q. You mentioned how you've come a long way; do you think you've really come a long way
in 12 months? I mean, where do you think you might be in your own line? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I definitely think I've come a long way and playing better and
getting more experience, and that's a big help. But I know how much -- there's a lot more
distance I can cover and still improve on. 

Q. Where did you think you might be at this time; number six in the world -- 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Never, I never thought I would break top ten and then six so fast.
So, I'm still kind of -- I don't know what to say where I want to be next year because
this is a great position to be in. But like I said, if you keep thinking about improving
and doing what's best for your game, I think that's how you'll remain happy. 

Q. What do you think about the USTA touring program? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I am -- I'm totally -- it totally helped me. The USTA was great with
my years in the juniors and the first year I was pro, and I'm still involved with Lynn
Raleigh who is head of the girls and I've had no problems with them. I know some people
have in the past, but they've done positive things, and I think they do that for the young
players when they first go on the tour to help them. 

Q. In which way, mentally? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, it's pretty tough for girls because we're pretty young when we
start. I started with Chanda Rubin and Julie Steven and they help us traveling all over,
mostly by yourself and making sure you get experience, you meet some other players and you
get some friends you can practice with and just trying to make you feel more comfortable. 

Q. What do you have to do to continue on; what do you think you have to do to do that? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I can get, obviously, in a little better shape and much faster on
the court. You know, if I can really play defense, you know, better than I am now and
still be a really good offensive player. I think that will help me further and I think
that can be one big step to help me really, you know, be in the top five or whatever and
really be a contender. 

Q. You don't consider yourself a contender here? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I do, but maybe like outside one. I think the women have three or
four good bets that are going to probably be there and a couple floaters, so. . . 

Q. Are you a floater? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I consider myself a floater. 

Q. If you weren't good in professional tennis playing, what would you like to be good
in? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I like -- I really enjoyed school and school work. I don't know.
Maybe a teacher-- maybe a lawyer. I always said I wanted to be that, but I enjoyed
working, but I want to have something to do-- something with school. 

Q. Was it difficult not to go to college? Was it a difficult decision to do, this
instead? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It was actually the most difficult when I was about 16 turning pro.
You know, because I knew if I turned pro, then it pretty much ended my chances of going to
college. And I was fine with it for two years and this past summer all my friends are
entering college and three of my friends moved in this week, so, now it's like, well, kind
of, I'm here, they're there and so it has its pluses and minuses. 

Q. Were there schools trying to get you on tennis scholarships? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yes, but I turned pro too early before to contact me. They call you
in your senior year, and by then I was already pro. 

Q. Did you have lots of letters building up and stuff like that? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yes. 

Q. How many schools, would you guess? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It's actually illegal to contact -- I had a couple, but I'll keep
them quiet. 

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT