FAMILY CIRCLE CUP
April 1, 1994
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Lindsay, are you disappointed?  
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, you know, I thought I should have  won that match, and I didn't play very well, and  it is kind of hard because it was a big tournament  and a big match, and it's a little disappointing.   
 

Q.  What did she do right, Lindsay, out  there?  
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, she played -- mixed it up a lot,  high balls, some angles; hit the ball pretty hard,  but I just ended up making more errors and ended  up with the end of the match.   
 

Q.  Because you played her recently and  hadn't had a whole lot of difficulty?  
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, I played her last week, but it  was a different match, different circumstance.  It  wasn't first round.  It was quarterfinals and she  has been playing well all week, so.   
 

Q.  Was she more in a groove than she was  when you played her in the first round?  
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, you have a couple of more  matches, you tend to play a little bit better.   
 

Q.  You came out in the first game just-- I  mean, took like a minute and half and you were  hitting winners all over the place and looked like  it was going to be --  
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I think I could have gotten off to a  much better.  I think I was up 1-Love and pretty  big in the second game.  Then I just made a couple  of errors at stupid times.  I probably should have  been up 3-Love instead of down 1-2.  You never  know, if you start off well and put them away in  the beginning, it will be a pretty much different  story.   
 

Q.  You had a real long game, 18 points;  you had a break in the second; up again in the  third?  
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah.   
 

Q.  Were you surprised at the up and down  of the scores, 7-5, 1-6, 6-2?  
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I guess, I mean, the first set I should  have won, but I thought I just hit some errors at  some really stupid sometimes; played some really  loose and stupid points that hurt me.   
 

Q.  Had some doublefaults at some crucial  times too today?  
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Really.  I don't remember them.   
 

Q.  How do you feel about clay as a  surface?  
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I don't like it, so -- I prefer to not  play on it.  So I guess I got to the quarters, but  I should go farther, you know, now have to  practice on it some more.   
 

Q.  Can you learn to love it?  
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Hopefully.  You know, growing up in  California, I have hardly played on this surface,  and you play like one national year on it for like  three years and then coming now, it is-- just  takes a lot-- it is a much different surface.  It  is not for my game right now.   
 

Q.  What is the hardest thing for you to  get used to on the clay?  
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, it is much slower, so it gives  the opponent extra time to get the ball; gives  them more time, so that hurts me.   
 

Q.  Were you getting tired there at all in  the third set?  
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No, I felt fine.  I just-- shots were--  I mean, I went to a lapse at 2-1.  I think I  missed eight straight balls; just gave it to her.  That was really stupid.  Mentally, maybe I just  lost it a little bit; physically I felt fine.   
 

Q.  So what do you prepare for next?  Which  is the next tournament site?  
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I am supposed to go play especially  Amelia Island.   
 

Q.  What will you do, going into Paris,  what other tournaments then?  
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Supposed to play Lucerne which is the  week before, so after this, or after Amelia  Island-- if I play then, I am going to go home for  a long time; take sometime off and have some fun  again and then start back up when I have taken a  break.   
 

Q.  Are tennis players allowed to have fun  if you really want to be very competitive do you  have to go week, after week, after week, after  week?  
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I am not going to, so I am going to go  home and get away from the whole scene.  I have  played a lot since January and you know, I haven't  really had sometime to really settle down and get  away from tennis since December, so I think it is  about time for me to do that.   
 

Q.  Lindsay, could you just tell us-- Iva  is a 16 years old.  Could you just tell us what in  her game makes her a dangerous opponent on this  surface?  
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It is kind of weird.  When I played her  in Houston, she played errors all over the place,  you know, and today she played a lot less, so you  know, she hits-- she takes the ball early and she  mixes it up pretty well.  She has good angles but  she was hitting a lot of high balls which is a  good strategy against myself.  So she knew what to  do.   
 

Q.  Did the high balls, they did they throw  you?  
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It changes up the pace, and makes me go  back and get on the defensive and not the  offensive and I usually like to be controlli9ng  the points and she was doing that a little bit  better.   
 

Q.  Thank you.   

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT