THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 15, 1994
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  This wasn't the first time you have beaten her, but it's
got to be one of your biggest wins?

 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, I think the first time I played her
was obviously a little different.  It was almost a year ago. 
It was my first big win and, you know, now today was a much different
match, I think, from all our matches.  I was obviously in control
the whole match and dictated the points and really played pretty
awesome to beat her.  A lot of the other matches I have played
with her, I have a lot of lapses and maybe let her back in, so
today I really was able to close it out and stay on top of her.


 Q.  Someone that you have beaten before like that, even though
you have had a very short career already on the tour, does that
give you more confidence going into that?

 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Actually, I was not as confident.  She beat
me twice after that last year, so I am going in there 1 and 2,
and the one time I played her, she was just coming back and she
was feeling a little sick.  I guess she was sick that match. 
So I wasn't exactly confident in the sense that, oh, yeah, I can
win this and I am going to win.  But obviously I felt good and
I knew her game well and thought it was the right game to beat
her.

 Q.  How do you explain beating her, the No. 3 seed, so easily
after having struggled in your last few matches?

 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, I played really well yesterday against
Tauziat; didn't struggle in that that much, in that one.  My first
rounds weren't that great.  I felt like I got it into yesterday.
 I was playing pretty well.  I knew I had to keep it up to play
well.  In the first game I felt my balls were going in and they
felt like I was hitting the ball clean, and never once in the
match did I feel really pressured or anything.  So that is obviously
a big advantage.

 Q.  The few points that she did win, she usually gave you
a drop shot.  Were you afraid that she might pick that up more
in the second set and --

 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No, I mean she hit a lot of drop volleys.
 That is what she does.  I mean, she drop volleys a lot, she hit
those pretty well today.  I got to her two drop shots she hit
from the baseline, but I think what gave me the most trouble when
she was coming in.  I had to pass her balls every volley, she
was getting it was going to be a drop volley.  That is a pretty
tough shot to manage.  My main thing was maybe to hit a good passing
shot.

 Q.  The two times she beat you last year do you think she
did something different than she did today?

 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  At the U.S. Open I had a real pretty long
match, you know, really pretty tight battle and she won that and
then I played her in Philadelphia and she pretty much killed me
there, so did --

 Q.  Was it a different mix of shots?

 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, it was a fast court and she was-- the
slice was staying much lower and she was coming in a lot, and
so that was pretty tough, a lot tougher.

 Q.  Lindsay, you were coming into the net. How much has your
doubles play been a factor in that?

 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Oh, good, we played-- my partner Lisa and
I, we won Indian Wells a couple of weeks ago that gave me a lot
of confidence to come in and get ready for the volleys, and it
is not so much getting the volley, but moving in on the groundstroke
and hitting really good approaches, and the people, I think, feel
a little pressure to pass me and when I do get the volley I have
been hopefully hitting them well to win the point, but definitely,
doubles has played a huge factor in that for sure.

 Q.  Given the magnitude of this tournament; like being the
fifth one outside the majors, you beat Sabatini here, the chance
to go on and meet Steffi.  Do you kind of realize this may push
you into the limelight a little some more; make a lot people recognize
who you are?

 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I hope so. I mean, every tournament I have
played this year I have done pretty well. Keep plugging away playing
my matches and this is a pretty huge tournament.  Obviously, it's
the fifth biggest.  I hope all of women's tennis gets maybe a
little bit more recognized.  Schultz had a good upset today and
maybe some more players will be pushed into the media and the
public's knowledge a little more.

 Q.  How much of a breakthrough was Australia for you this
year?

 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Oh, that, I think it was-- the whole trip
was great.  I won my second singles title there and beat Mary
Joe that helped me a lot today; stay calm; you have beat a top
player before, and just hang in their, so definitely that win
helped me a lot today.

 Q.  Lindsay, are you going to fit your high school prom to
your schedule this spring?

 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, the prom is the second week in May
and graduation is second or third week in June, somewhere, so,
yeah, I am definitely doing both.

 Q.  Do you have a date already?

 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Everyone asks me that.  I mean, it is still
six weeks away, but yeah, I think I know who I am going with.


 Q.  How tall is he?

 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Tall.

 Q.  I am sorry.

 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  That is okay. 

  End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT