U.S. OPEN
September 5, 1993
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Did you get tired?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I started to get tired in the second set.  Then once that ended, I felt fine again.  I think I was just-- really wanted to -- I should have probably put it away in the second set.  Then in the third set I stayed in there.  I am pretty happy with the way I hung in there.  Didn't give up.  I mean, I feel all right.  Obviously I am a little tired.


Q. Second set when it was 4-All you were serving at 40-Love.  Lost the game, what happened?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, I probably started to think ahead a little too much.  I started then to make a lot of errors, and then when it got to 5-4, I came down from 40-Love down -- I made stupid errors.  I have to stop doing that if I really want to get up there.


Q. Can you compare from when you played her-- she said she had been sick at that point of the year and I know it is not a Grand Slam, but can you see any difference in her game now?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I mean obviously the day I played her whatever, she was sick or, you know, whatever but I played well that day and I still think I deserved to win.  Today we both fought pretty hard.  She played better, I just -- I made the errors way too fast for her to really have to play, I think.  That is probably something I will have to improve on not to make way too many unforced errors.  And get first serves in.  She-- beginning of the second set she started to attack and come in.  She stopped doing that.  And then I don't know.


Q. What do you think about the crowd that was rooting for her?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, that was great.  That is probably the most fun match I have played.  The crowd was going nuts.  That was -- it was a lot of fun, and, I mean, it was packed and that is really exciting for me because that was the first time I really played on a big court for a big match.  They were great.  They were so alive and it helped me a lot.  It was nice to feel someone in there really good.


Q.   Lindsay, have you figured out exactly when school starts?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It starts Tuesday.


Q. Are you going to make it back?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, I'll probably end up leaving here on Tuesday.  It is a little late probably to get out tomorrow.  I will probably be there Wednesday.


Q. You talk about saving the matchpoints, you saved five, I guess.

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah.  I played well.  I mean, the one first match point was pretty lucky.  I think that was kind of a miss/hit winner.  I stayed pretty positive, played through it.  And then once it got to deuce again, I then -- after the last time I just made two errors.  I felt I lost the match more than she won it.  But she won, so...


Q. When she won here in '90, she had people questioning her game, coming in and people didn't pay much attention and she kind of snuck up on people.  This year, she has been written off probably a little more than that.  Can you comment on how you would think her chances stand and could she catch people by surprise here?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, sure she's a great player.  She has been at the top before, and, you know, she knows how to win and, you know, there is no question.  I think she plays -- is it Graf?


Q. Yeah.

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  She plays Graf.  That will be a tough one.  If she gets by that I think she can do it. If she starts, I mean she can play, you know, she has been there before and she knows what it takes to win.  If she starts playing good again and, I don't know, I think she was playing better when she was attacking, so I think she has got, to you know, probably dictate a little more than she was.


Q. Lindsay, is there any solace in taking her to 6-4 in the third and make for 2 1/2 hours having the crowd go crazy?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, that was nice.  It was a fun match.  I am really glad, you know, it was hard because the second set was really kind of mine and I let it slip, and once I got back in the third set I let it slip again.  That is hard but it was so much fun, I mean, the crowd was absolutely great.  I never had anything like that, and you know, that was just-- it was real fun and I am glad -- I mean, it was a good match, I think, so.


Q. To you has the crowd split?  She has a big following?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, but I felt they were behind me, too.  A lot of people were yelling for me.  I mean, she is well liked everywhere, so that is pretty hard, but I thought I got a fair following here.


Q. What does this tell you that you need to do?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Like I said, I mean, I just made too many errors, and I have got to stop doing that somehow.  It is hard when you are going for it.  I didn't want to ease up and not go for it.  So I did and I paid the price with my errors a little. I just have to keep working hard and hopefully I will get another chance like this, which I think I will.


Q. What do you have planned for the rest of the year?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I am going to Asia in about a week and a half and then I am home for most of the fall. Then I will start probably back up again, I don't know.


Q. Thank you    


End of FastScripts....


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT