US OPEN
August 31, 2006
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






THE MODERATOR: Questions for Lindsay.Q. Give us an arm report. LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, it's feeling better, you know. It's funny 'cause yesterday it was really sore, and then today was feeling much better. So not really sure the rhyme or reason to it. I think the two days for me was a blessing. Didn't have to really be out here and wasn't hitting much; neither was anyone else. So I feel it's getting better, I think.Q. It's good they made you play on Monday?LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, turns out that way. It's funny how things work.Q. Lindsay, I noticed that you were trying to end the points a whole lot earlier by coming into the net. Was that because of the shoulder? LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No, I just thought maybe I'd try and do that once in a while.Q. It worked?LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, it did work. I think she has the type of game that I had some more time to be able to do that. I wasn't trying to make the point shorter, I was trying just to be aggressive. That was really the result of that. Q. Is this once again, early in the year, you gave up a game to a player, but now you got past that? LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I don't know. I just think the mindset of especially at a Grand Slam, you know, you just do what you need to do and try and do everything the best you can. It didn't really cross my mind. I guess maybe I have a different philosophy possibly later. Q. Mean old lady?LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I guess (smiling).Q. How tough is it to find sort of perfection out here against sort of the weight issues? You have Serena playing, Daniela later. Serena has been criticized for being too heavy, Daniela for being too thin. What's the pressure like to find that perfect balance out here? LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It's different for every player. What is troubling to one player is the exact opposite for another player. You know, I think, we're out here obviously as athletes, but just like any other woman. You know, it's a society problem. It's not just, you know, in the women's tennis. I mean, you know, personally I had trouble earlier in my career and was criticized. I'm like 18, you know. Every girl kind of goes through that. But I think that once you just reach a comfortable point and do what you need to do, I mean, you really just listen to how your body responds and what you think and try not to worry what others feel they think you should or should not be.Q. What percentage of it was tennis and what percentage was just being a woman that forced you to shape up?LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think just growing up. I think that just, you know, I mean, for me, like not to blame them, but my parents were going through a divorce. I had just finished high school and moved out on my own for the first time. You know, just a lot of things were going on. On top of that, I was still playing I was playing tennis. But, I mean, once I hit my early 20s, you just, you know, reach a point where you feel comfortable and your body knows, kind of it reaches its own kind of weight naturally if you're working out and eating well.Q. Do you think some players mistake being thin for being fit?LINDSAY DAVENPORT: I think that's a very common I think that's not a player misconception, I think that's a worldwide misconception. I think to me, a strong, athletic woman seems a lot healthier than just, you know, weight. Like, you know, instead of what the scale says.Q. Andre Agassi might be playing his last match tonight. It's a possibility. What are your thoughts on his performance and what has he meant to the game?LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I mean, I hope he doesn't play his last match tonight. I think everybody here is really excited. Huge buzz with him playing. I know the crowds would love to see him, you know, through the second week, if possible. But it's hard watching him. I think it's emotional for players as well as for himself. I mean, you can see how much he means to everybody in the sport and how much all of this means to him. It's very fun to watch and cheer for him. He seems like he's, you know, totally at peace with his decision, just wants to go out on a high. I think all of us want to see him do that.Q. Did you watch him Monday night?LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I had to turn it off (laughing). To get some sleep. But, I mean, that was some just unbelievable tennis from both guys. For a first round match it was insane. I know tonight's gonna be a great match, as well. You know, Andre playing well and Andre with the crowd behind him is always going to be tough to beat.Q. Did you turn it off after the third set? LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yes, yeah. The third set tiebreak. So he was up two sets. Yeah, exactly.Q. Going back to what they said earlier about the emphasis on appearance, I remember you had a little exchange with Justin after he wrote LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Oh, last year. Q. whatever it was. LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, we have many exchanges (laughing). Q. Let's hear them. LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No (smiling).Q. What did you say to him? LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Nothing. I mean, Justin is a good friend of mine so we, you know, like to banter. I mean, I think, you know, he was saying something about what girls wear to practice or something, and I was like, Well, why does that matter? Some of your coaches walk around with they should have T shirts on, too. It doesn't really like I don't understand the purpose of your article. He was saying that it was a really big deal. I was like, "Well, I think people would have better things to talk about." He was like, "No." It was like that kind of stuff.Q. Would you ever think about writing a book about the tour? LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No. Q. No?LINDSAY DAVENPORT: No.Q. It just came up yesterday with James Blake. LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I've heard about that. I haven't actually heard what Vince wrote or anything. I heard that some players were upset. I kind of think that it's all pretty what happens kind of stays there. It's kind of an unwritten rule. I mean, even if someone were to ask me, Oh, what do you think of this player? I'm always like, Oh, they're good. It's kind of nobody's business. I just feel like that. I don't feel like it's secrets and stuff, but you have a mutual respect for all your fellow competitors. I think that everyone should have some kind of standard to that.Q. So what happens in the locker room stays in the locker room?LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Kind of. Not much happens in ours. Maybe it's a different story in the other locker room (laughing).Q. Andre went and had a Cortisone shot the other night because he was in so much pain. Can you identify with how badly he must want to play in this tournament to go through what he's gone through physically?LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, I think he's been going through it for years just to try to stay out here for himself and for everybody who still wants him out here. It's a tough deal day in and day out with injuries. You know, he's fought so hard to give the fans, you know, this last kind of hoorah. I hope his body allows him to play through all that. Q. Do you get down? You've had a lot of injuries. LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah.Q. Cost you your defense of the Olympic title. You would have won this title two years ago if you hadn't pulled up lame. LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It's life, you know. I mean, I have so many things that can go wrong, biomechanically and everything, just kind of shrug your shoulders. If it got you too down, I don't feel like I'd be able to keep coming back. But, you know, it's the injuries that kind of happen playing tennis, you kind of I can accept better than some of the like fluke kind of the accidental injuries. The foot surgery I had to have was because I had a bad nerve in my foot. Had nothing really to do with playing tennis. Those are the ones that kind of get annoying. I understand if I hurt my shoulder or blow my knee out playing tennis, but let's not have the extra ones come popping in all the time. Q. How much better did you get in the last 48 hours with your shoulder? LINDSAY DAVENPORT: Yeah, it's doing better. There's no question. Like I was saying earlier, for whatever reason yesterday it felt really, really sore. And then today it felt much looser. So trainers were saying they thought I had a different arm today, so I don't really know the rhyme or reason. I'm taking care of it the best I can. Hopefully, if it stays like it is today, I mean, it shouldn't be an issue.Q. It is the shoulder or the arm?LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It's the arm.Q. Upper arm?LINDSAY DAVENPORT: It starts here and then it kind of comes down into here. Shoulder was just kind of a general word. It's not really here, kind of in here and here (indicating her upper arm). FastScripts by ASAP Sports...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT