PILOT PEN TENNIS
August 26, 2006
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  Q.  I guess just five matches in five days becomes too much of a strain for the shoulder?   
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, you know, it did.  I was hopeful, you know, when I woke up that it would be better.  But, you know, my shoulder was, you know, obviously really sore.  What happened is like it started moving down my arm to like my elbow.   
 All of a sudden when you start compensating, every time I felt like the ball was hitting the strings, it was like reverberating a little bit, reverberating pain through my arm.  It's just overload right now.   
  
  Q.  Just a strain, or did you get a diagnosis?   
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  You know, I have a bunch of tightness up higher.  It was bothering me yesterday.  And then because of that, you start, like I said, compensating with other muscles going down.   
 You know, it was going into my elbow, you know, into my forearm.  That's the kind of stuff where you start getting in trouble.   
  
  Q.  Are you a little worried this could affect the Open?  Do you think a couple of days of rest will help?   
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, I mean, rest is going to help no matter what.  Of course, with the US Open less than 48 hours from beginning, this is not where I want to be.   
 But I do think this is something that, you know, given rest, will get better.  So it's pretty much just trying to manage it for my first match.  Hopefully I can get through that, you know, being able to kind of do what I need to do to play well there and win and still have rest.   
 You know, it's really early to say right now.  I mean, we'll see exactly when I play, how much rest I'm afforded.   
  
  Q.  When did your shoulder start to hurt?  Yesterday?   
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, you know, it's always a little bit tight when you go from serving a lot.  Yesterday I really was feeling it in my match.  Obviously afterwards, then this morning, my arm is just extremely sore in the other places.   
  
  Q.  What did the trainer put on your arm?   
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  She was trying to put some tape to try to alleviate the stress that was on up here (shoulder).  She can probably explain to you more scientifically.   
  
  Q.  Just tape?   
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yes.   
  
  Q.  You played against a lot of different styles.  In a concentrated period of time, you got what you wanted out of this week.   
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, you know, it was a success.  I came here and I played really well.  Five matches in five days is a lot on my body.  There's no question.  I had hoped to start on Sunday.  My opponent was in the tournament in Canada.  That pushed my start back till Tuesday.  Having all these matches with no days off is not easy, especially when I haven't played in six months.   
 But I'm happy that I was able to still perform well here.  I feel absolutely horrible for the tournament and all the fans.  That's why I was upset, because obviously they come here to see the best tennis.  When you can't provide, you know, your service that you want to, I just feel guilty.   
  
  Q.  What point in the match did you know something was seriously wrong?   
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Pretty much at Love-3 when I had already served two games.  I thought I needed to saw my arm off (smiling).  It was going to be a really tough day.   
  
  Q.  Are you absolutely convinced you can play at the Open?   
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I'm not convinced of anything right now.  You know, I mean, just having walked off, we'll see what happens.  I certainly can't play if it's like it was today.   
 You know, I just have to hope the next couple days it will calm down.   
  
  Q.  To what extent are you making the decision to say, I'm not going to go on?  Is it a combination of you, your coach, the trainer?  Is it really your call?   
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It's all my call.  You know, I obviously seek advice from the people around me and will take into effect the health providers, their advice as well.  But ultimately the decision is always on the players' shoulders.   
  
  Q.  Do you wait till Monday morning to see how it feels?   
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Absolutely.  I came back all this way to give -- to be able to play.  I'm going to give myself every last minute.   
  
  Q.  If it feels like it does right now, the day of your first match, you wouldn't be able to play?   
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I can't.  No.  But, you know, maybe I can take a lot of medicine (smiling).  We'll see.   
  
  Q.  Justine said she remembers the first time she ever played you, how you beat her.  How far has she come in the last couple years?   
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Oh, so far.  She made some of the biggest improvements I think it was three years ago maybe where she went from not having the greatest forehand to making her forehand one of the best and a huge weapon.  You know, she is very, very tough.   
 If you've ever watched her play some of her matches the year she won the Open the first time against Jennifer, then against Kim, she was as tough as they come.  She is dedicated to getting better, is constantly changing things in her game to stay on top.   
 She's remarkable, I believe.   
  
  Q.  Besides today, when you look back at this tournament, how do you think you played?   
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Oh, great.  I mean, it was such a wonderful experience.  That's why I'm sad to leave it on this note.  But the whole week was great.  I actually had a good time here the first few days practicing and then training, being able to play matches out there, play them well, have the exciting match with Mauresmo.  It was a great week.  It's a shame that, you know, almost it didn't end yesterday for me.  I'm sad about today.   
 You know, hopefully I'll be able to look back and still be proud of the previous four days.   
  
  Q.  At this stage of your career, how far ahead do you look?  Is it a week-by-week, month-by-month?   
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I would say probably month-by-month is more accurate.  But, you know, when you get injured, obviously things go more day-by-day.  You know, I try and plan my schedule just about a month or so, maybe six weeks out.  Anything longer than that is just rolling the dice really.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT