PILOT PEN TENNIS
August 25, 2006
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  Q.  She gave you all you could handle.   
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, I thought she played really well.  You know, you never are quite sure what to expect from her with errors and winners, some miss-hits.  I thought she played really well.  You know, on top of that, I think I handled everything well.  Good to win that.   
  
  Q.  What was the difference?   
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  The difference in a match like that is a few points in each set.  The first set tiebreaker, I played really well.  The second set, there were some chances for me to break serve and I wasn't able to.  She's got a really good serve.   
 On the ad side it gets really tricky which way to lean.  She was keeping me going both ways.  I never really was sure what to expect.  Then the second set breaker, I started off really well.  Towards the end, a few more errors crept in.  I thought that, you know, I was able to get a good lead in both of the tiebreaks early on.   
  
  Q.  Four matches in four days.  Here you are in the finals.  How excited are you to be in the finals?   
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  First of all, I'm ecstatic to be in the finals.  I wouldn't have guessed that a few weeks ago, a few months ago, let alone a few days ago.  It's a huge accomplishment for me.  I'm feeling fatigued.  I played more tennis this week than I have in six months.   
 It's an adjustment for my body.  I felt like I was getting just my -- my shoulder was getting really heavy; it wasn't hurt.  I didn't hurt it on one shot, but it just feels like everything is being used more than it has been for quite a while.   
  
  Q.  Your shoulder is okay?   
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah.  I mean, like I said, it wasn't like one serve where I was like, Ahh.  It was like each serve.  The muscles are, you know, just overworked for what they've been doing.  But it's good.   
  
  Q.  Once you had the cream rubbed on you, you had the rain delay, you probably wanted to get back out there as soon as you could.   
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, I was getting treatment in the rain delay.  You know, was just trying to make my arm as loose as possible.  For a little bit I actually started serving better because, you know, when you stop trying so hard, just kind of are letting your arm flow, sometimes you serve better.  I was able to do that.   
 It didn't get worse.  That was great.   
  
  Q.  Good going into the US Open, you were able to test your body in a match like this?   
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I'm happy with everything this week so far.  I would have been happy losing today.  It's funny how that works.  To get through the first few matches, get them under my belt, was the biggest key I wanted to accomplish this week.  Following up last night's win with a pretty solid performance today against a player that gives me trouble because I don't get into any rhythm, it's another great win.   
 You know, regardless, just to be going into this US Open, and winning some matches, but coming back to a tour-level event and being able to reach the finals is great.   
  
  Q.  Obviously as a competitor you're probably always trying to win when you're on the court.  Can you talk about that mentality?  A week before the US Open, how much is about just seeing what you can do and doing things right whether you win or lose?   
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It's always about winning.  It's never looking ahead for me in that regard.  But it is also taking care of my body.  If there's a Grand Slam the next week or if there's nothing, I've learned a lot about injuries over my career.  So as far as, you know, I don't think about the US Open when I'm playing these matches.  I think about, I'm here, you know.  Obviously I come to this tournament because I want to win it.  Moving on from there.   
  
  Q.  Is there a psychological satisfaction having lost to a player a couple weeks, then coming back and winning, in the sense you can feel you kind of are taking a step up in your own game?   
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, I mean, you never want to lose to a player twice.  But, I mean, I knew in my head that I'm playing differently this week than I was two weeks ago.  So it's nice to get that back.  But for me, more importantly, it was about playing better.  Even if I lost that set, it would have been gone to a third.  I played tons better here than I had in LA.  I think she did, as well.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about the fact you've been able to reach the final every single year you've been in this tournament.   
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, I lost in the semis in '98 though, to Steffi (smiling).  I remember that.   
 You know, I love playing here.  I really like that court out there.  I think it's a really great stadium.  I feel really relaxed here.  I think it's a great event.  You know, it's a very low-key week.  For me, it's great to be here instead of in New York or in another tournament.  I really have enjoyed my time here.  Everybody makes sure everything is so wonderful.   
 For me, it's always brought out very good tennis.   
  
  Q.  You haven't played that much, but are you the type of person a week before a Grand Slam you'd rather be playing a tournament than at home resting?   
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It depends.  I would never want to get to New York earlier than I had to (smiling).  Some of the other tournaments, Melbourne, it's pretty relaxed the week before.  That's not too bad.  It depends which Grand Slam it is.   
 I'm very happy to bide my time here.   
  
  Q.  Why is that?   
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  What do you mean?   
  
  Q.  A lot of people would like to go to New York earlier.   
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I love New York.  It's actually one of my favorite cities.  It's not one of my favorite cities during the US Open.  The tennis center is very chaotic there.  The locker room is extremely tiny for 128 singles players and probably 40 or 50 other doubles players.  It's a lot of hassle.  In that regard, it's not very player-friendly.   
 I kind of just prefer to keep things more relaxed and out of the way.  Hopefully I'll be spending two weeks there anyways (laughter).   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about Samantha playing really well today.  You said maybe beating you the last time would give her confidence today.  She was pretty good.   
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  She was.  I mean, I promise you, I thought she played better here than she did in Los Angeles.  I know the result's different.  I thought my level was much higher.   
 You know, she is a very tricky opponent, comes up with a lot of good shots.  She has a really good serve.  I think when she plays with confidence, you can kind of see the difference in her game.  I've seen her play some matches where she hasn't looked so good, but I don't think she had the confidence.   
 I knew she probably would come in playing well, having beaten me before, being in the semifinals, having won a bunch of matches here so far.   
  
  Q.  Did it work keeping that last match out of your head?   
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  You know, I didn't.  I mean, I've obviously beaten her before.  I always approach each match differently.   
 But, you know, it's pretty remarkable.  She actually lost the qualifying here.  For her to come back, win all these matches, still get to the semifinals, is great.   
  
  Q.  For the way that you play, is there any preference as to who you want in the finals?   
 LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, you know, it's funny.  I mean, I lost to Justine a number of times in a row now.  I'm not quite sure.  You probably don't even want to hear the number.  It would be nice if I could kind of try and change that tide sooner rather than later.  She's a very tough opponent for me to play.  She plays very well against me.  You know, in Australia, lost a pretty tough three-set match to her.   
 But, again, Svetlana actually plays me very tight and very well, very good as well.  Both of them have, you know, very good forehands that they use to their advantage and run around, like to hit.  They're both tremendous athletes, get back a lot of shots.  I think Justine has a very good record against Svetlana.  I think it's probably in her favor tonight.  If I'm supposed to say that or not (smiling)...   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT