US OPEN
September 3, 2005
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  You just won in straight sets.  Most of the Top 10 seeds have been winning in straight sets.  Why do you think there haven't been a lot of competitive matches for the Top 10 seeds?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  You know, I don't know.  There's always been a little bit of a dropoff sometimes between, I don't know what number the cutoff is and then the rest of the field.  But, you know, it's hard to say.  We talked about this the other day.  I think the 32 seeds helps space people out a little bit.  I don't know.  It's been like this case for a little while now.  Occasionally we have an upset, but not like the men's for sure. 

Q.  I'm sorry if you were asked this before in other press conferences, but are you doing preventive things for your back?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  That's pretty much all I do all day (smiling).  Yeah, it's just really been an up-and-down struggle.  It was doing really good and then two days ago it started to get really tight on me again.  For the last 48 hours I've been getting treatment and then tonight it felt great again.  I've gotten to the point where when I get to Grand Slams I do my little bit of practice and that's it.  I don't feel I can risk anything by working out tons or practicing super hard, so I just kind of concentrate on my matches, hit a little bit on my day off, and that's really it.

Q.  How little is little?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Hitting? 

Q.  Yeah. 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It's been about like 45 minutes.  Maybe one day it got to an hour because I hit a few more serves.  But I don't know.  Maybe that's not that little to some people, but to me it is.

Q.  Over the last 48 hours are you in discomfort sleeping or doing anything else or is it just tennis?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It was just when I was leaning over, like trying to pick something up.  But then it was so funny, I was really concerned yesterday, and then today I wake up and it did really well.  And it felt great tonight playing.  I felt like I didn't have any limitations.  But something I just have to really keep an eye on what I do and how I sleep and walking around, how I sit, all of that.

Q.  I don't know if you've seen Andre here just walking around. 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No, I haven't seen him at all, no.  I mean, I think just even though we've been playing on the same days, maybe different times or whatever.  But watched him on TV.

Q.  Does that play on your mind a little bit because you don't know how you're going to feel this time, that time?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I guess.  I mean, I'm just going with what I've got and hopefully that's good enough.  Like I said, as I've been playing my matches it's been feeling good.  So every other day helps quite a bit.  I'm sure I'll take it easy tomorrow and get ready to go again on Monday.

Q.  Were the doctors ever able to specify exactly what it is or are you still in the dark?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No, I mean, I did all the tests you can do, CAT scans, X-rays, MRIs.  Just something happens to make my muscle spasm.  Nothing structurally is wrong, which is really great news.  Just is some kind of minor disfunction that then leads the back to getting extremely stiff and tight.  But, no, I mean, that was the really good news, is nothing's wrong that requires any kind of long-term worry. 

Q.  What do you think about your next opponent, Nathalie Dechy?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, she's really good.  We've had a lot of tough matches.  I guess I haven't lost to her, they said, on court.  But really some close matches, obviously the Australian Open and some other matches at Indian Wells have been quite close.  I think she's a really good player.  I think she plays really well against me.  I've seen her play other girls where I'm like, "That is not the girl that plays me."  She takes my balls early.  She redirects them pretty well.  I feel like she plays well against me, so I know this is going to be no different and I'll have to play very smart out there. 

Q.  What is the speculation about the women's final?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Oh, gosh.  I think, uhm, it's going to be really interesting on the top half.  I couldn't tell you right now at all who's going to make it through on that side of the draw.  I really think Kim, Maria and I think Venus has been looking really, really good.  And then Serena will probably make it.  So I don't really know what to say and I refuse to speculate on my half of the draw because, I mean, obviously I hope it's me (smiling). 

Q.  There's only one player on your side of the draw below the age of 25.  Does that surprise you?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Above or below? 

Q.  Justine is the only one. 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Oh, really?  That's awesome (laughing).  That's interesting.  That's pretty rare.  We've had a lot of young girls come up.  I guess they just haven't quite gotten to the latter rounds yet or the veterans are playing well this year.  But that's good.  I do actually think we have a very good mix right now of all ages from 15-year-olds up to, you know, in the 30s that are playing very well.

Q.  Do you think it's possible there is anyone on the women's tour, whether it be you or someone else, that could play at the level Andre does at 33, 34, 35?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It would be tough.  Seems like a lot of them, with the exception of Martina who played singles a little bit later, have quit quite early.  I mean, I know everyone was floored when Steffi quit at 29, and she was doing so well.  I think it's hard to say.  I don't know who would be left standing at 35.  I couldn't say right now of all the top players, I couldn't tell you that I think one of them would be playing at that age.

Q.  Is that a factor of getting married, having children?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I think a little bit.  I think that we do start earlier, except maybe Andre is one of the few that actually started in his teens.  But, you know, I started playing pro events at 15.  I think Graf was 14.  Sabatini quit quite early because she was at 14.  I think we started a little bit earlier, and I think that we just get burnt out a little bit earlier. 

Q.  You're one of the married people on tour who does not travel full-time with your spouse.  How difficult is that?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It's really difficult, yeah.  I was so happy.  I mean, last night he took the red eye to come here just for Labor Day weekend to see me.  You know, he's got to go back to work on Tuesday.  That's the way our lives go.  But it's extremely difficult, but we couldn't have it any other way.  I don't think we'd be together if he just quit his job and carried my bags around the tour.  That's our relationship.  We're both very motivated, strong-willed people.  It takes a huge effort and sacrifice on both our parts to make everything work, and it's always a work in progress and a discussion and everything that goes with that. 

Q.  So he wasn't a conflict between Hawaii and...

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No.  He wanted to, his parents were trying to get him to Hawaii.  I'm sure he's sitting in front of the TV right now watching SC.  I heard all about it, that I was playing at the wrong time tonight.  Yeah, it's a big tossup in our household.

Q.  Do you enjoy other sports?  Curious if you've been following, for example, the WNBA?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I do not play any other sport at a high level, but I am a huge sports fan.  Not necessarily of the WNBA, but I'm a big fan of hockey.  I've been forced to watch every SC college football game the last five years (smiling).  We follow the Lakers.  I follow the Angels a lot this past summer.  They're obviously in the pennant race with the Oakland A's.  Huge sports fan.  My husband and I go to sport events all the time.

Q.  Ever try volleyball?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Once or twice, and then I stopped.  My dad was pretty tough and he knew a lot about it and he was already on my case when I started to try to play at 8 or 9.  I was like, "Yeah, probably not gonna happen." 

Q.  No beach career coming after tennis?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No, no, no.  I like to watch it. 

Q.  You're familiar with her, can you tell me what you think of the potential of Vaidisova?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I think she's great.  I really think that she's got a really complete game for, I believe, 16.  I think that's the right age.  She looks -- I mean, she hits the ball really well.  She's got a big serve.  She's athletic.  She's got weapons.  I think she's going to do very well.  It might take her just a little bit longer to mature into her game than some other players.  Like another younger player might have a better tournament here or there.  But I think in the next year or so she's really going to take control and grow into her body and learn all her shots and really be for sure a Top 10 player.  And we'll see after that how she develops.

Q.  How does the hard court this year fit your game compared to other hard courts you play on?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  The hard courts here? 

Q.  Yes. 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I'm liking them.  Yeah, I'm liking them.  I feel like you can really construct a point out there.  I feel like it's not playing too fast.  In some years, it's just been extremely fast.  I've -- I like the court.  I mean, the trickiest thing about that court is the wind.  Once you get used to that and have some experience with that, it's no problem.  But I think they're bouncing great.  Great height and not too fast.

Q.  Like the blue?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah.

Q.  Pick up the ball better?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I can.  I find it's doing great. 

Q.  You sense people's feelings toward you has changed since Wimbledon? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah. 

Q.  Sympathetic terms?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, people bring it up quite a bit to me.  It's been great.  I mean, it was probably one of the most difficult things as an athlete I've ever gone through, and at the same time one of the most rewarding things.  I feel a tremendous amount of pride when I look back in that match, but you can't help but feel disappointment.  But, no, I had people coming up all the time and even now, you know, they're still -- they seem very touched by what happened.  I don't know if it's 'cause they feel sorry for me or they really enjoyed the match or whatever it may be.  But for some reason, that match sticks out more in fans' minds than other matches that they've ever brought up to me.

Q.  Are you at a point in your career where you can appreciate that, even though you did lose, more or do you feel the same way about it, like 10 years ago?  Andre is always asked that.  Someone will say, "Andre," if you lost, "How do you feel about this match?  You took part in something so special."  He'd say, "It sucks." 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, yeah, yeah.  I try so hard to look at the positives now.  So I'm trying to say like, "Oh, it was wonderful to go through," but it totally sucked (laughing).  You know, I mean, I would rather have that experience than to lose 2 and 2 and not have a chance, where I've been in Slam finals like that.  But it was extremely emotional, and, you know, it's tough to overcome something you want so bad and get that close to.  But I do think that there was a lot of great things that came out of that match.

Q.  Anything touched you especially, a player, fan?  Anybody come up to you?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I mean, I had a lot of just kind of emotional experiences in the days after.  Like, you know, obviously my husband was extremely proud and told me so and that was -- really meant a lot.  Right after the match Corina came in and hugged me and said something that made me cry for a while.  Yeah, I mean, the people -- I think more, I listen to people around me, and those people really touched my heart more so than a stranger would. 

Q.  As well as Venus played at Wimbledon, and given she's actually played well here, tomorrow's match, if she plays at that level, shouldn't she be a favorite over Serena? 

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  In the tennis that I've seen here, and I've seen both of them play a little bit because it's been my days off, Venus looks like she's playing really well.  It's such a different -- I don't even know what to say when they play each other.  It must be so hard that it's pretty hard to predict who will win that match.  If Venus comes through that match, I think that she's looking pretty good up there.  This could be just an extremely difficult match and emotional for her, or it might not be.  I don't really know what goes into it for both of them.

Q.  You're saying she's looking good to beat Kim?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I know Kim's beaten her in Stanford, but I think Venus has beaten her quite a bit.  I don't think Kim particularly enjoys playing her from past things I've heard.  I mean, it's an extremely tough section of the draw.  Whoever comes through that match, it just gets tougher and tougher for them, so we'll see what happens. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT