WIMBLEDON
July 2, 2005
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Your feelings after the match? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, it's tough to try to really put it into words right now.  Obviously, I'm extremely disappointed.  But, I mean, I feel like I gave it everything I had out there, and every time the chips were down for Venus, she played unbelievable.  I mean, you know, I thought I played really well.  I thought I had a lot of chances.  And I felt like she never allowed me to take advantage of those chances.  She just played great whenever she was down.  
 
Q.  The match point at 30-40, 5-4, as you replay that in your mind, is there any other way you could have played that point?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I mean, that point, not really.  I mean, more so maybe sometimes at the deuce points or 15-30 points.  I mean, the point went by so fast - a good serve, first serve, one shot, I think a winner.  It wasn't like I had this easy shot or an opportunity to build a point.  It was like, on grass, you know, it's wham-bam, it was over.  But, you know, I had a lot of opportunities after that up a couple points at 15-30.  You know, she was able to keep a lot of balls in and a lot of forehands in when it was close.  You know, it's not always the case.  
 
Q.  Could you give us a medical report on your back. 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, it just -- all of a sudden I went to go down to return and I kind of always kind of bend over, kind of just tightened up all of a sudden on me.  It's tight now, but I was really, really thankful that it never got worse and it didn't detract from my tennis.  I mean, I was a little nervous there that one ball it might completely lock up.  But towards the end of the match, it wasn't really a factor.  I don't feel it cost me to lose the match.  Was happy about that.  
 
Q.  What happened when you went off court?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  She was just trying to mobilize it a little bit and get the joints moving.  She feels like I pulled a muscle in my lower left back.  I won't really know until, I don't know, tomorrow or Monday when I get around to it.  
 
Q.  When did it happen?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  3-2.  But, you know, it just kind of got really tight, then it stayed that way.  But it was totally -- able to play through it.  I mean, it wasn't anything that made me not be able to perform.  
 
Q.  Did it get worse when you were serving at 4-2?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It just was really tight.  But, no.  
 
Q.  You're not one for long discussions, but can you talk about the serve at 4-4 that you clearly felt was out?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Was it out?  
 
Q.  I was in the stands. 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, God, that was so long ago.  Was that the second set?  
 
Q.  Yes. 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I thought the serve was way wide.  I mean, I thought there was very, very good calls throughout the match.  I thought that was a bad call.  But, yeah, gosh, I wish I could remember more of the second set (laughter).  
 
Q.  You talked about Venus, the way she played when her back was against the wall.  What is it like to go up against a competitor like that on a stage like this?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It was great and it was exhilarating.  I mean, I felt like I played great.  I felt like I did everything I wanted to do out there, and I felt like I got really close and just didn't win the one or two points that would have won the match for me.  But I don't really feel like sitting here that I have anything to really be like hang my head for or ashamed of.  I mean, the girl all of a sudden would make like 10 balls and hit winners.  Like I said, that's not always the case.  She hit some great first serves at some crucial times.  She didn't really give me a look at any second serves on big points.  Hit some great up-the-line winners.  Came in.  I mean, it was all -- she just took it away from me every time I got up.  
 
Q.  7-6, 15-30, you had an incredible rally where you were doubled over.  She was against the back exhausted.  You were doubled over for a while.  Were you stretching your back or when you exhausted?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No, no, once I got comfortable, I didn't want to really get up (laughter).  I looked up and I saw she was nowhere near the baseline.  I mean, that's the kind of tennis where, I mean, I'm not exactly sure how many balls we hit, but a ton of balls.  We were both hitting the balls hard and deep, having great points.  You know, that's the kind of point where, you know, she hit some great shots and didn't make any errors.  You know, to give me two match points, it was an incredible point.  
 
Q.  Easy for us to say this.  I know you're trying to win this thing.  Was there any moment where you went, "This is great stuff"? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, I actually felt like that the whole time.  Even after losing the second, I felt like, God, this is a good match, and, wow, she really played well to win that set.  As the third set went on, it was great.  The opportunities were there.  Like I said, I mean, it wasn't like all of a sudden we're just blowing easy balls.  We had really tough rallies.  It's hard to control on grass.  She just was, like I said, incredible.  Whenever I felt like I was just about to shut the door completely, it was like, "Oops, let's open that back up."  
 
Q.  Obviously her celebration after, you've seen Venus over the years, she's usually fairly stoic walking around.  Did it surprise you in a way?  Have you ever seen her that overjoyed?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I've lost to her in the finals of three Grand Slams.  I think that's consistent how she behaves when she wins a Slam.  
 
Q.  Does this kind of match make you want to compete more or less?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Gosh, I don't know.  I mean, it was really fun to play.  It was, you know, something that you look forward to in a huge Grand Slam final.  But, I mean, disappointing that I lost.  But, you know, who wouldn't have the opportunity to go through that?  I mean, who wouldn't want to go through that?  It will probably take me a little while to push it all aside and be able to move forward.  But, you know, it was right there.  
 
Q.  Will we see you here next year? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I've learned I have no idea.  I hope to be back.  I mean, last year I improved on a semifinal.  Maybe next year I can improve on this.  Gosh, it's a long way off.  I have no idea.  I hope so.  
 
Q.  When you gave her the hug at the end, what was going through your mind then?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I felt like she deserved it.  I mean, she deserved to win, absolutely.  She fought hard and she played well when she was down.  She was great.  
 
Q.  In a moment like that, do you allow yourself to think, "We both deserve it"? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, it's never happened in a tennis match (laughter).  I wish it could have.  But, no.  I mean, it would have been nice, I guess.  
 
Q.  Could you say a word or two about the crowd's participation today, particularly the third set. 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  They were great.  I mean, it was a pleasure to play in front of all the people that I thought were very appreciative of the great tennis, of both our abilities out there to try hard and to fight through everything.  It was fun.  
 
Q.  Over the last two or three years, she's fought through injury, it's been very easy to suggest she's had her day, still a very good player, but probably will never be an elite player again.  In all honesty, women on the tour, have they felt pretty much the same way or was there a predominant feeling of wait till she gets back?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  You know, it's tough.  I don't really talk to many of the other girls about how they feel about certain players.  I mean, I've always felt that the people that really wrote her off were the media.  You know, I've been very consistent that I've always felt that it's been her confidence that's let her down more than anything.  If that started to get more positive in her mind, she was obviously going to be a threat with her athletic ability and the way she can hit the ball.  She played well here.  I think grass helps quite a bit, the pace of all the her shots.  We'll see what happens from here.  
 
Q.  Early in the match she in particular seemed a little bit tentative.  She didn't come out with that same aggression she showed against Sharapova.  What was the point that you felt she kind of switched on?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I don't know.  I mean, it's so tough because I think, you know, you're always worried about yourself and how you're playing and everything.  I don't know.  I mean, some point in the match, it got tougher and tougher.  You know, I was trying to focus on how I was playing and what I wanted to do with the ball.  I don't know.  
 
Q.  Is it a fair comment?  Do you feel like she wasn't quite there for a ways into the match? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, I thought I was playing well, but I don't know.  
 
Q.  When you first felt this at 2-3 in the third, did you ever think, "Why now?" 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Oh, yeah, I was pissed.  But I mean, like, I came off and I was very happy that that wasn't the reason why I didn't win the match.  That would have been much harder to take than losing a match.  From what I've been through, like having -- not being able to play a hundred percent at the end.  So I was happy that wasn't the deciding factor.  
 
Q.  What was done with you when you went off the court?  Did it change when you came back on?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It was just tight, and that was fine.  I mean, I was more nervous like if I did one thing, I wouldn't be walking with a bad back.  But it didn't happen, so it was good.  
 
Q.  Have you ever had this exact thing before?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I've had back problems.  But, gosh, it's been a long time. 
 
Q.  What were the conditions like?  From where we were, obviously it seemed okay.  I noticed many times Venus threw the ball up and didn't serve it.  I think you did once.  Was it trickier than people would have imagined? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Conditions were great.  I think that over the course of, I don't know, a three hour -- I don't know exactly how long the match was, you're going to get a couple errant tosses, some tired arms.  But conditions were great.  
 
Q.  Have you had a chance to meet with any of your family since the match?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No, no.  
 
Q.  How important is your family at a time like this?  A tough day. 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, they're great.  But, you know, I have always felt like I've done a remarkable job with being -- knowing this was a tennis match.  While a huge match, a huge opportunity to build on a career, you know, we're still going to go have dinner tonight, we're still going to wake up tomorrow morning.  Gosh, I love that my mom and husband are here.  They're obviously, you know, going to be great to me.  But I think -- you know, it will be nice to have them here.  
 
Q.  Even though you didn't win, do you feel like it was such a magnificent match that in a way you own a little piece of history here now, too?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No (laughter).  I would have rather had a fourth title.  You know, it's so hard.  I mean, it's just so new.  I mean, it's only been an hour or whatever.  I'm sure as time goes by...  Like I said, I mean, I feel like I played great.  There's not many times when I feel like I've played well and I haven't won.  So that's where I give her a lot of credit.  I don't have anything to be ashamed about.  But it's tough when you work so hard to achieve something like this and it just doesn't quite work out.  
 
Q.  You mentioned the confidence of Venus, that you think it's coming back now.  How key is that when you're moving toward the No. 1 ranking, Grand Slam titles?  Maybe it's old hat for you now.  In the beginning did you have to believe you were No. 1 in order to realize that?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I just think it's mostly, uhm, you know, what happens and what kind of tennis you show and when it matters in a match.  You know, you can be up and not play well or whatever.  But I think that with everybody, I mean, at the top, I mean, you know if you -- you can beat whoever you want, but if you go through a period where you're not beating these people and you're losing to people you maybe shouldn't be, it's going to take a toll on your confidence.  
 
Q.  In those two or three minutes you go to the room, can you take a painkiller, get a massage?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I was already pretty well pain-killed out before I went on the court.  It wasn't advisable to take any more.  Yeah, she was just trying to rub it and loosen it up.  It was good.  
 
Q.  When you say "pain-killed out," for your thigh? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Just in general, aches and pains at 29. 
 
Q.  It's 5-6 in the third set, Venus is serving.  You get back to deuce by hitting both corners.  She hits a slice ace.  Is that what you meant when you said, "Every time I came up with something, she came back with something better"? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Absolutely.  I mean, yeah, I would do -- play a really good point, you know, have that opportunity, and then it was like a first serve, I'd get it back, she'd hit a winner.  A lot of times when you play -- I felt like when it was close she wasn't giving me any really free points and wasn't really missing the forehand and wasn't hitting a lot of second serves.  She was really, really tough out there.  
 
Q.  Do you think the fact that you've been around so long and seen so much, it helps you?  You seem to have this loss in great perspective. 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I don't know.  I mean, I feel like -- I just don't feel like I have all that to be ashamed of.  I mean, I'm really disappointed.  Obviously, when you get that close to winning Wimbledon and it doesn't happen.  But someone deserves it more than I do, and someone can come up with the shots she was able to come up with at those times, I mean, I don't know what to say.  It's too good.  She deserved it.  
 
Q.  How do you look at your tennis overall in 2005?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It's been a great year.  It's hard because, I mean, ultimately people look at it like, oh, it's a disappointment because two Grand Slam finals and didn't win.  I look at it like I've done everything I can.  It hasn't worked out.  But I'm playing better now than I have in years.  I'm not going to give up on the opportunities that present themselves to me.  You know, I've got the US Open in six weeks.  Hopefully this will encourage me to keep going this summer.  
 
Q.  The confidence thing, is that something that can really click in immediately?  When you look at your results the last year, it's not a surprise if you win a Slam, but you look at Venus' results the last year and a half, and it's out of nowhere. 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  You know, beating Maria was a great win.  Obviously that probably helped quite a bit.  After the French, she seemed to really play well here.  I mean, from the very beginning of this tournament, she started to hit the ball better, it seems like.  But who knows.  I mean, maybe she can tell you.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT