WIMBLEDON
June 22, 2005
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  How would you summarize your game today?  
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I thought I started off really well.  Was up 6-0, 1-0 very quickly.  Just felt like for the next couple games, again, lost a little concentration, made some errors, let my opponent kind of get back into the match.  But was able to then reestablish control and win the last five games.  I felt like I probably played a little bit better in the first round, a little bit more clean throughout the match.  But both matches have gone the way I would like them to go, so I've got to keep that in mind.  
 
Q.  Did you think it was easy?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  The first set was easy.  The second set was not.  It was tough.  I was down 3-1.  I think she had a point for 4-1.  A couple other games went to deuce.  So definitely had some close games there in the second set.  
 
Q.  How far do you think you will go?  Do you think you will go all the way?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I hope so.  I mean, it's hard to say here.  We're only at the third day of the tournament.  But I hope to keep playing well.  That's why I'm here.  
 
Q.  Were you affected at all by the surroundings being out on Court 2?  Something of a surprise to find yourself not on Centre or No. 1 court? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No.  I mean, here we only play -- the women only get one match on each show court in between Centre and No. 1, so I think every top player hits Court No. 2 at some point during the tournament.  To me, a grass court is always a grass court.  I was maybe thrown off a little bit by how fast my court went.  The two matches previous went really fast, and then we had a retirement before our.  But other than that, I played on Court 2 many times.  It's definitely a little bit louder because you've got the restaurant nearby and stuff, but it was fine.  
 
Q.  Do you feel you learnt more about your game today than maybe from your first round match? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I think that Court No. 2 is a little bit tougher court.  I've found the bounce is a little bit better on the bigger courts.  I don't like to put too much into every match.  You know, I'm going to continue to go work on trying to serve a little bit better and trying to keep hitting the balls hard and deep, and hopefully that will just keep working for you.  
 
Q.  Can you assess her game?  She's one of the few 18-year-olds who has shown at least a little bit of promise.  Is it hard to tell on grass? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I mean, grass is going to be the toughest indicator of a girl's game, but she's obviously a great athlete.  I thought she moved very well.  I thought in the beginning I was really getting her -- like overpowering her on some tough balls.  A lot of that is the grass and hitting some balls late.  I think when she got a little more confident in the second set, she started to hit the ball a little bit better.  But I'd like to see her work on just trying to be more aggressive.  And I know that's tough to do against certain players.  So maybe it's not a true indicator today.  But I thought if she could just step into the court a little bit more on her chances.  You know, coming through quallies and winning a first round here, that's a great first step for her.  
 
Q.  Does it suit you that some of the perhaps higher-profile players in the public's eye in this country are playing on a different day to you?  Are you quite happily going on in your own sort of quiet way?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Doesn't really affect me what day I play on or who plays on the day with me.  It kind of affects me who plays well against me on that day (laughter).  But, you know, I've never been the one caught up in who's playing on what court or who's being talked about or who's not.  I mean, I think I've always just gone about my business the way I intend to and the way I like to.  
 
Q.  That's sort of what I meant.  The kind of hullabaloo that surrounds Sharapova, Venus, Serena.  You're quite happy not having that degree of interest in you?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Uh-huh (smiling). 
 
Q.  When you went back home after Paris, what did you assess tournament-wise?  Were you pleased with the ones you grinded [] it out or were you upset with how you played against Mary? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It was kind of a weird feeling.  It was obviously, you can look back and say quarterfinals of French Open, good achievement.  Winning all these matches that I was losing in, great achievement.  But, I mean, overall, I felt like my play was not at a very high standard.  Like I said, I mean, that's unbelievable.  I was able to get to the quarters and feel like that.  But just imagine if I was able to have been a little bit sharper out there.  You know, it would have definitely helped a lot.  Even going into the quarterfinal match, I mean, it probably would have given me confidence if I felt like, gosh, I was playing really well.  But it was funny.  As soon as I step back on a hard court, I was like, "Oh, my gosh, I am so happy that it's over, that part of the year."  Instantly I feel like my game got a little bit more aggressive and a little bit more sure-footed.  You know, at the end of the day, good run, happy it was over.  
 
Q.  About the levels of attention you get here.  I was speaking to Tracy Austin, and she said you guys had been grocery shopping.  And you kind of don't get that adulation when you do your daily life.  Does it please you, given the success you had in tennis, you can have that balance that you're not mobbed you don't need the security guards, all the rest of it?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I mean, I play tennis, and that's pretty much all I enjoy about it, about the life.  I'm pretty quiet.  I don't do a lot of media stuff.  I think [] Raquel would get mad at me for that.  But, no, it's my life.  I mean, you choose to make your life whatever you make of it.  I've tried to make my life as quiet as possible all these years I've played.  I couldn't be happier with the success I've had on the court and how things go for me off the court.  
 
Q.  Have you started to look at the draw now, how things are shaping up, and possibly who you might be facing in later rounds?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I mean, I know my next round opponents, they're playing right now.  I know it's a possible match-up with Kim in the Round of 16.  To be honest, I have not looked past that.  You can kind of tell who is playing on your half of the draw with who's in the locker room getting ready to play matches, but I wouldn't know who exactly would be my quarterfinal match-up yet.  Tough to look past the first few rounds and tough to look past a player of Kim's stature.  
 
Q.  Are you scared of anyone? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No.  I've never been scared.  You go into matches more confident on certain days than others, but I've been out here too long and played everybody too many times to feel scared.  
 
Q.  Who was the last person you were scared against?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I mean, I can remember for sure, really scared in 1993 or '4, Miami tournament.  I had to play Steffi in the quarters.  I couldn't believe I was in the quarters.  I was just like crying before I went on the court.  I was so scared I wouldn't get a game.  I lost the first set 6-0.  I remember thinking that I wasn't going to get a game.  I was petrified about that match.  I'm leaning towards '94, but it could be '93.  But then the second set went to a tiebreak.  I couldn't have been happier when the match was over.  I was like running through the locker room.  I was so happy I got some games.  
 
Q.  In 1999, when you were talking about how you felt then, any inklings of that type of feeling now? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Still too early.  I mean, you know, it's hard to even remember back to the first few rounds of '99.  So, no, I guess I haven't had that inkling yet.  
 
Q.  Do rivalries still drive you?  If they do, do you get more motivated to play against someone you don't like off court versus someone who you're very friendly with off court? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I prefer to play people the first few times.  I mean, like, for instance, Venus, I think we've played like 30 times or something.  I don't even know.  It's ridiculous.  It's like, how many times can you play somebody?  Maria, I've only played three times now.  That seems to be a little bit more exciting to me.  I don't know if it has so much to do with personal feelings.  You certainly don't like to lose to the players that you're not big fans of.  But after playing for so long, you kind of get used to doing both.  In the spirit of that question, I prefer to play people that I really haven't played much before.  
 
Q.  One top player I spoke with earlier today was saying it makes her uncomfortable playing someone she doesn't necessarily get along with because there's more emotions going on.  Do you feel that way? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Does she like me (smiling)?  I'm just kidding.  
 
Q.  She was speaking about you actually. 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Oh, God!  
 
Q.  I'm joking. 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I'm going to be worried about that (laughter).  I mean, it's -- really, not many players besides Venus and Serena at the top are super close that it's going to affect anybody.  If I had to go play singles against Corina, it would be awful.  But that's one player that it would really affect.  It affects Venus and Serena.  Other than that, I mean, maybe one or two of the Russians are close.  I've got to tell you, there's not a whole lot of close love between a lot of the top players.  
 
Q.  Are you under any sort of pressure to win this championship?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I mean, I feel pressure in the sense that obviously I know there's not going to be many more opportunities to have at Grand Slams.  On the other hand, some of the pressure is relieved by the fact knowing that I've at least won it one time in my career.  But that was a long time ago.  So it's kind of a weird feeling.  I know that I've got -- when I keep playing, my chances are becoming smaller and smaller.  But who knows.  I mean, I'm still enjoying it and would like to get one more under my belt before it's all said and done.  
 
Q.  You talked in the last year about being at a fairly contented place in your life, concerning your future.  When one hears about the problems some players have in women's tennis, do you consider yourself to be the other side of the coin, someone who has had a long, successful career, has emerged with their sanity intact, as appears to be the case? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Exactly (laughter).  You know, kind of along the lines of the same question earlier.  I mean, I couldn't be happier with the way everything has gone in my entire career.  The way I've conducted myself on the court and off the court.  I don't know.  I think I've surrounded myself with great people.  I never had crazy parents.  I've never had anyone around me that I didn't feel like was in my corner because they wanted something more.  They truly cared about me and wanted to see me do well.  I feel like I've handled everything that's come at me hard and tough in a great way.  I'm 29 now, happily married.  I feel like, you know, whenever my career ends, I'm still going to have a great life.  
 
Q.  You came through this pressure-cooker incredibly well.  You obviously could give advice to somebody because you've been through it.  You've seen the pitfalls.  Is there anything that you would say more than anything else to a young player? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  The toughest thing I see is when you see parents that are crazy.  Would have no idea how to give a girl advice on that because I didn't deal with that.  And I think that's obviously one of the most detrimental things we have on tour.  I never try to give advice to something like that because I don't know how you would possibly deal with that.  I think the most important thing is to keep realistic expectations, know that if you lose first round at Wimbledon, US Open's eight weeks away.  How great is that?  I mean, you always have another chance.  It's going to go up and down.  I was always taught how you handle the really poor times and the really tough times is the best indicator of a player.  I mean, it's easy to act well when you're winning well.  When you're not playing well or things aren't going your way...  Try to just work hard and know that it's only tennis.  Sounds silly when it means so much.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT