FED CUP - BELGIUM VS. USA
April 23, 2005
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  (No microphone.) 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No.  I hadn't really ever seen her play, so I just thought I'd see what things looked like the first game.  Obviously, it's a tough position for her to come out in, her first big match.  You know, I was just trying to take advantage of that.  You know, most importantly just get the first win for the weekend.  That's what I was able to do.  
 
Q.  How tough was the wind?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, the wind definitely picked up a little bit, so that's always difficult.  But it's been windy here all week.  If anything, wind always makes tennis a little bit more difficult.  
 
Q.  She said that this is what Fed Cup is all about, an opportunity for somebody like her to play someone like you, she would never get to play you in a tournament.  Is there a little bit of a measure of fun for you in that regard?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, I mean, that's great.  I do believe in Fed Cup and I do believe in the opportunities that it affords a lot of different countries and a lot of different players.  In that regard, it's great.  In another regard, you always want to play the best team they can put forward.  When I originally agreed to play, it was under, "This is going to be a really tough tie."  It didn't turn out that way.  They're obviously doing the best that they can.  For us, it's important just -- we're taking this as 'business as usual' and looking forward to some more ties this year.  
 
Q.  I was wondering, with some of the Grand Slam tournaments coming up, what are your feelings about the possibility of having automated line calling?  Do you think that's something important for the sport? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah.  I mean, I've been told they were testing it for use at this year's US Open.  You know, something you've got to get used to.  I'm not sure what the rules would be in terms of your challenges and rights, you know.  So, you know, while I've not been a big believer in it, I better start turning around and start practicing now in practice trying to call balls because you're going to have to try to figure it out (laughter).  It's technology.  Everything moves forward sooner or later.  Obviously, the USTA is on the cutting edge of trying to help develop that.  Hopefully we get to test it in a few tournaments before a Slam.  We'll see how it works.  
 
Q.  Why don't you believe in it?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I just think I'm maybe a little bit old-fashioned in my philosophy.  But I do believe they try their best.  I do believe it evens out from match to match.  You know, it's just something that I've done since I've been five or six when I started.  
 
Q.  Can you talk a little about Zina as the Fed Cup captain.  Presumably today she didn't have to give you much advice, but just in general, in practice, and how she handles the role. 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, I mean, it's been an incredible week.  It's been the most relaxing week of Fed Cup I've ever had.  It's been -- she's very low-key.  It's great for me.  I tend to do better with a little bit more mellow.  She's been great.  Her job is to get us all to play well, and hopefully that happens.  Her job is to have us all have a good time, which we have, so she succeeded in that.  Her job is to, you know, get us on time to things, get us dressed the right way, all of that.  She's done everything right so far.  
 
Q.  Just going back to Fed Cup in general, we changed the format a number of times over the years.  Do you like this format of home and away?  If you could design a perfect Fed Cup, what would it be? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, I think Fed Cup in most countries is very successful depending on where we go.  I do like this format better, if the countries can put on a successful tie.  I've done it all.  I've done it where every country has been in one place for one week in the early '90s.  I've been to where we go to one place with four teams.  Tried it all.  But ultimately this is definitely the type of week where you get more team camaraderie, you get to really look forward to the weekend and the matches.  But it takes more time.  It's a full week.  But this I think is always the most enjoyable format.  
 
Q.  Talk about this facility.  There's been some talk about maybe doing something with clay here to entice Fed Cup and Davis Cup to come here more, and also the crowd today, they were fairly active. 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  They were great.  That was phenomenal, to be able to walk out in the opening ceremonies and be a part of that.  I've played in some not very successful Fed Cup ties in terms of fan participation.  That was great that we were able to have strong vocal support.  This is a great tennis facility.  I played here in a tournament in 1993.  I played in Chris Evert's charity event here.  Always have good memories.  I mean, it's a great tennis facility, and hopefully they can do something, whether it's hard or clay or whatever surface, and bring women's tennis back here.  
 
Q.  Do you prefer this hard court surface?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  In general, yes.  
 
Q.  The way the rankings are determined, obviously Kim and Justine had a lot to do with Belgium's high ranking.  Does that need to be adjusted because they didn't play?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I think it's impossible for the ITF.  If they're going to rankings by country, they need to consider all the players and where we're ranked, not if we played the year before, for instance.  I mean, where are we?  No. 6.  Doesn't make a lot of sense if that's accurate.  We have 1, 3 and 8 in the world.  That's a pretty strong team.  I don't really go by too much by what the ITF says countries are ranked.  I mean, hopefully each country can put together their strongest team.  I think they should take into account if a country does put together their strongest team what the actual seeding should be.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT