AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 26, 2005
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Four straight double-faults in one set.  
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  (Smiling). 
 
Q.  Were you feeling a little wobbly then or what?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Not wobbly.  I felt like that was the one key to my game.  I feel like it revolves quite a bit around my serve, and I felt like today I struggled with my serve.  I didn't feel the same conviction and the same confidence when I would get up to the line.  I don't know quite why that is, but that was definitely hampering me a bit.  There was a 10-minute break before the fourth double-fault, so I don't know if we can say "in a row."  But, no, it was definitely a key to my tough day today.  
 
Q.  At the end of the second set, there was one that was quite pronounced.  You seemed to be really rushing through the serve.  It seemed like you were serving at a different tempo from the rest of the match.  Would you do anything in the break to just kind of collect yourself down?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, I mean, that would probably be what my coach is going to tell me, so thank you.  Yeah, I mean, I just got out of complete rhythm with it.  And I will definitely take your advice and take my time next time (laughing).  No, I'm just kidding.  But, no, I mean, I have to be up there and take more pride in serving well and all of that.  But having said that, I mean, I struggled through with my serve today, was still able to win, and was able to get it back at the end.  So hopefully I can just look on the positive side of everything.  
 
Q.  Was it just the mechanics of the serve, or were you in any other kind of distress from the heat or...
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No, no.  I wish I could blame the heat.  It was all me.  
 
Q.  Sort of 0-1, Love-40, what's going through your mind there?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, I had lost all the momentum that I had picked up early in the second and was in extreme danger mode, I mean, of going down, getting down the early breaks.  She obviously had the momentum, obviously had the crowd support behind her.  That was a big game.  I was able to, you know, stay level with her and not go down the early break.  I don't quite exactly remember what happened, but finally played a little better.  But, again, I gave her Love-30 with the two double-faults, so just kind of played my way out of it. 
 
Q.  Did you find the crowd quite difficult? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, I didn't actually.  I mean, I totally understand the reasoning for it and I didn't think that they were rude or inappropriate.  So it was fine to play.  
 
Q.  You just had a really long match in hot conditions.  Would you consider pulling out of doubles?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No way.  We're going to win.  It's my partner's birthday.  We're in the semis.  And I feel fine.  I mean, I have no physical problems right now.  You know, it's tough to come back again tomorrow, but hopefully we're going to go out there and, you know, have a great chance to make the finals.  
 
Q.  I guess your game was off today, but how did Molik match up?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I didn't mean to say like I was off.  I feel like my game and my confidence and my groundies revolve around my serves.  If I'm serving well and picking my spots, I definitely play with a lot more confidence.  I did struggle a bit on serve and sometimes then that doesn't allow me to go for quite as much as I'd like to.  Alicia, I think, has improved a lot.  She was obviously very forceful with her forehand.  She's got a great first serve, is very tough to read and very tough to get any kind of jump on that.  I was trying to take advantage of the times when I did get second serves.  But I think she's made, obviously, vast improvements in her game and, you know, she's going to keep trying to get better and is a tough opponent. 
 
Q.  She had a pretty tough call on her serve at 7-all.  I think the machine showed it was in and it was overruled the other way.  Any thoughts on using electronic...
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  7-all.  Was that the game I broke?  
 
Q.  Third ace in a row.  Game point. 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Oh, really?  Oh, wow.  I mean, I know we had some close calls on the baseline, the sidelines.  I didn't know that.  I've always been against electronic line calling.  I feel like calls go both ways.  But I'm very much a traditionalist and I think it would be obviously very expensive to implement and it would be hard to do it for all the courts.  I think it's fair to go from each court, every player has the same circumstances.  But, you know, obviously technology is evolving.  If we can figure out a way where it worked for everybody... But for now, I kind of stick to the linesmen. 
 
Q.  What kind of conversations were you having with yourself in the nitty-gritty of the third set?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, I mean, was trying to -- it was so tough because when she was serving in, I mean, I wasn't even really getting them back.  So was trying to, you know, wait for the second serves and get into a rally, and then not want to make errors at that point.  But, you know, it's so tough when you serve for the match and don't serve it out well and don't play a good game at that point in the match.  I mean, that's where you want to play at your best, and I was really disappointed I wasn't able to do that.  Was happy with the way that I was able to come back and still hold and not end up losing the match.  Then just it was frustrating, though, I mean, when you have the match on your racquet in terms of serving for it.  I mean, I had a matchpoint, she hit a great shot.  But just not playing the type of game that you want to play, it's a little alarming.  
 
Q.  How surprised are you to see Dechy in the semifinal?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, if someone had said when the tournament first started, yes.  But obviously today was a tough match for both of them, Dechy and Schnyder.  I played her in Sydney last week and we had actually a great match, close two sets.  I think she's a good player.  I have not really thought about it much, but I think she's, you know, has a great opportunity.  First semifinal, I believe.  She has nothing to lose tomorrow.  
 
Q.  Was the break welcome? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, I wanted to change, and sometimes when you change, you have very limited time.  I think it's like four minutes to five minutes.  So I think I was back on court at seven and a half, they told me.  I was just happy to be able to change and get dry clothes and start the third set, you know, feeling a little bit dryer.  
 
Q.  You've obviously put yourself in position to take a look at the trophy again here.  Can you remember what it felt like when you won here the last time? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I do remember what it felt like.  And it still feels like it's miles away, if not farther, after today.  But I had a blast in 2000, obviously winning it.  And, you know, a match like today, I was able to pull through.  A couple years ago I lost to someone like this, to Justine.  So that still feels way too far away.  I'm happy to get through this match today.  And I was happy the last game, was down again, was able -- finally started to play a little bit more aggressive to hold serve and win the match.  But, you know, gonna be a tough match tomorrow, especially after going back out for doubles today.  I'm going to have to be ready to go tomorrow afternoon. 
 
Q.  Did you enjoy down the stretch or was it, "Get me out of this"? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It was like, "Get me out of this."  I did not enjoy it (laughter).  I think it's tough to enjoy it when you feel like you should have already won or should have played a better game to have tried to at least win the match.  At some point the heat was going to play a factor, but luckily I didn't feel like it affected me.  But felt like I was getting too old for it today.  
 
Q.  Can you put her performance in context for us today.  How many girls are playing tennis out there who could have pushed you for that duration and tempo that we saw?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I don't know.  It's tough to say.  I mean, I think it's tough when matchups -- a lot of times you get more chances to break in a match.  I mean, she played well.  I mean, she pushed me hard.  I felt definitely that I was under pressure in the match.  And, you know, not many girls make me feel like that, but I definitely have quite a few losses in that regard.  But, no, she's a great player.  You want to have weapons this day and age in women's tennis.  Alicia certainly possesses them with her serve and forehand.  I think it's a great thing when someone's getting better, can only look forward.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT