AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 18, 2005
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  I think you evened your record against her.
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, I did know going in I was down one, so I was trying to even it up.  But, I mean, she's, you know, given me a lot of fits early in my career so it's odd.  I mean, there's not many people that I could play in the first round that I don't have a winning record against.  So it was kind of an odd draw to see.  I knew the last few times we played on hard court I won pretty handily.  I was just trying to keep that in mind as I went out there. 
 
Q.  How did you strike the ball today?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I felt pretty good.  I mean, you can't really pick on too many things.  It was a very mental match.  Made a few more errors in the beginning, and once I settled down I felt obviously great.  My next opponent will play I'm sure a different style of game.  But, you know, considering only playing one match last week and having an opponent that could give me a hard time, obviously I'm thrilled with the way it turned out. 
 
Q.  Did you realize you hadn't beaten her in a Slam yet?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I didn't until Mr. Dolan just told me that.  Yeah, so, I was surprised at that, too. 
 
Q.  These days when you walk around, is it sort of weird that there's a lot of people you probably don't know because the tour is changing so quickly?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, we had a mandatory player meeting the other night, and didn't know many at all (laughing).  I mean, it's just the way it is.  Especially with how our ranking system works and the small 28 draws, you pretty much see the players in the Top 40 and the Top 30 and that's it except at Slams.  So for instance the girl I play in the next round I'm not very familiar with, Pastikova, I believe.  So, I mean, that's just the way it's kind of turning out.  I think I'm around the tournaments less and less in the training room and practice, and all that.  It just kind of works out that way. 
 
Q.  You said you thought by Tuesday you would pretty much be 100 percent.  Where are you?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, I feel good.  I still have some cough sometimes, but other than that the infection is gone.  My energy level is great.  I've been practicing hard -- since probably Sunday started practicing 100 percent.  So I think I would be fine at this point.  
 
Q.  Some distractions around the tour today and the last few days.  What are your thoughts on the whole sort of...
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, I mean, I've heard about it.  I don't actually know too much.  So, you know, he was filling me in a little bit Mr. Stat-man, as Lisa called him... 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  But I don't, I'm a little confused if it's a banned substance but not out of competition and all that.  I haven't talked to anybody.  I know Larry held a press conference that I didn't hear about.  I'm a little, you know, unsure.  But I think it is obviously irresponsible for them to come out in such a manner as they did, and especially how they would say it was one of four but it wasn't our own player.  I mean, that just seems everything's handled totally unprofessionally. So as far as the stuff actually taken, I don't -- I'm confused on that at this point until I talk to someone who has more, you know, insight into it. 
 
Q.  Have you ever been drug tested at an exhibition?  Do you think that's proper?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I think that you have the right to be tested anywhere.  I mean, I've been warned that when I've left to go on vacation, it could happen there.  I fully believe that the sport needs to be able to test anybody where, whenever they want, you know, whatever time of year it is. However, the people testing have to abide by certain professionalism if they expect us to at the same time.  So I don't have a problem with that, it's at an exhibition, or if she was at home or wherever. 
 
Q.  When you've had drug tests in the past, say you had a cold, do you give them a list of what you're taking?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yes, yes. 
 
Q.  Every time?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yes.  Write down any medication or anything that's gone into your system the last 14 days or so. 
 
Q.  Can you talk about the ramifications of having these headlines splashed all over the papers and the fact that the tour has a new title sponsor. 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, it's bad timing.  I mean, we've never had a player test positive for a performance-enhancing drug.  From what I heard, this is not a performance-enhancing drug, which I think is the real issue we're trying to keep clean, so I think we have a clean slate.  But anything that the media can take and run with, they do, and make it seem the most negative angle possible.  Sorry.  Not you two, but... So it's unfortunate.  You know, I was supposed to play that exhibition, and I would be dying if they had said it was one of these three players and hadn't told me if it was me or whatever.  So, you know, I can't -- you know, can only sympathize with Svetlana as well as the other two for the last few days who have had to deal with really unfair questions as well. 
 
Q.  You were supposed to play.  What happened?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I was supposed to play.  Didn't go (laughing).  
 
Q.  Svetlana replaced you?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Someone replaced me.  I don't know...   So, yeah.  
 
Q.  When you were out with your various injuries over the years, how often have you been tested?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, not enough.  In 2002 when I was out, I wasn't tested at all out of competition.  I think they started doing that more at the end of 2002.  We had a list at the player meeting the number of times every player was tested last year so everyone got to see how many times.  I think they're still trying to build up a budget for that.  I think with the more sponsors we get, and the more money generated for the tour, they'll be able to test more and more frequently. I believe I was tested I want to say I remember seven times last year.  Probably not enough.  Didn't have any out-of-competition tests last year.  They're trying, though.  They're testing.  A lot of players had 10 or 11 times, so I think we're getting better. 
 
Q.  Hate to ask you a hypothetical, if you were Nathalie or Elena, would you sue over this?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I don't know, but I would have been really nervous about it.  I mean, I'm nervous and I know I'm clean.  I always think, "Oh, my gosh, something's going to be tainted."  I mean, I would definitely.  If it caused them distress, I mean, I don't know how far, how much they worried about it or not, but I certainly would have been worried and would not have been happy with the people who -- the man, I should say, who leaked this. 
 
Q.  Have you seen any of them?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No.  I was here very late tonight and they were all gone.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT