US OPEN
September 10, 2004
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Lindsay.  
 
 
Q.  How much pain were you in going into that match? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  You know, I had strained it a little bit in warm-up this morning and it was a little tight maybe yesterday. But, you know, it felt okay in the beginning, just midway through the second set it seemed to pull a little bit more.  And, you know, it's going to make it tough to beat any player let alone someone in the Top 10 or 15; I'm not sure what she's ranked.  Just felt like I was playing from a disadvantage there. 
 
Q.  How difficult was it for you to move side to side? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, it wasn't easy.  At that point, I just, you know, tried to keep the points shorter and trying to go for bigger shots.  You know, you would like to think when you're out there that, you know -- I'm fine with losing, it's not the losing part.  You just wish that I had lost because, you know, I was terrible or I didn't play well and she played great.  She did play well.  I just felt like, like I said, I was working from a little bit of a disadvantage and that's never easy.  
 
Q.  So what time actually was the warm-up? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I'm sorry?  
 
Q.  What time were you warming up when you had the injury?  Was that like an hour before the match?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I think we hit like 10:45 to 11:45 or 11:30 or something. 
 
Q.  What shot did it hamper you on?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It wasn't, you know -- it was just trying to push off on the left leg, move side to side, which is essentially both shots. You know, it was just there.  You know, I think she played pretty smart, was just trying to move me around.  I was trying to hit bigger shots to try and keep the points shorter.  Just didn't turn out.  
 
Q.  You had a particularly disappointing way to lose when you're so close to getting to another US Open final, maybe your last? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah.  I think that's just, you know, probably what I'm most disappointed about.  Like I said, I'm fine to lose.  Like if what happened at Wimbledon happens.  That doesn't bother me.  I'm just disappointed that I didn't get the opportunity to either win or lose at 100 percent. And, you know, that's sports, though.  It happens to everybody all the time, and, you know, I've been, for me, very lucky that the last three months I haven't really had to worry about this kind of stuff.  
 
Q.  The break in the third, did you think you could hang on at that point?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I still thought it was going to be tough.  I thought that that was a good position, obviously, to be in.  I didn't feel like I had the rest of the tournament.  Like once I got one break, it was gonna really be the trick.  I still felt like I had a lot of work to do and, you know, the one side when you're against the wind, it was so hard.  I mean, I was headed to that side at that time, so that was a little bit of a disadvantage.  But we both had to deal with it. But she seemed to play a lot better against the wind than I did. 
 
Q.  Could you have played tomorrow night?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I don't know.  We'll see how it is tomorrow.  Who knows.  
 
Q.  Did you think about pulling out?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  You know, I was pretty bummed between sets.  It didn't really cross my mind too much.  You know, trainer, she's great, Carol, just telling me she was going to restrict it as much as possible and, you know, hang in there. 
 
Q.  When the injury happened did you think it was going to be as much of a problem as it turned out to be?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, you know, was a little bit strained in warm-up and afterwards, and made worse by the match.  So it's hard to say.  Obviously, the situation changed as the match progressed.  So when I started the match, no, I was confident.  As it got worse, I was less confident. 
 
Q.  When you got up, did it hurt?  When did it start hurting? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Pretty much the end of yesterday after practice.  I didn't feel really anything sharp in practice.  Had it worked on quite a bit last night.  Was warming up and still was just a little bothersome, you know, wasn't like I was dying, you know, before the match.  Just like I said, just got a little worse in the match.  
 
Q.  Can you say for sure that you'll be here next year?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Uhm... probably not, but I hope to be.  I mean, who knows.  
 
Q.  What are your thoughts leaving the court?  Did you think about it being the last time?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Disappointment, you know.  Had a great opportunity and was playing really well.  Just, like I said, bummed that win or lose, it wasn't, you know, it wasn't entirely up to me. You know, things have been going so well that, you know, I was thinking, "Well, maybe it's going to keep going well."  But eventually, my body just didn't handle it.  
 
Q.  Do you think you'll still -- is it too soon to decide whether you're coming in in the fall?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, I'm just going to see how I feel in the next few weeks and how my body feels and mentally how I feel and what my motivation is.  
 
Q.  Was that "probably not," you probably won't be here or you probably can't answer?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Probably can't answer it.  It's really soon.  Twelve months is really far.  So that's what I meant.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about what you're weighing when thinking about playing next year?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Hasn't really crossed my mind too much yet.  I mean, it's been a wonderful last few months, and I've enjoyed competing very well.  Something like this happens to everybody in all sports and I've overcome many injuries, so this isn't going to be like the nail in the coffin.  I don't need surgery and I don't have to be out for months and months.  Just see how mentally eager I am.  I, you know, really was excited to play this summer and play here.  I thought I had a great opportunity.  If I feel like I have a great opportunity and can challenge for the title in Australia, I'll go.  If I feel like, "Okay, maybe not totally into it," it's going to be tough. 
 
Q.  Andre talked about how as long as he was out here playing the best and at least challenging and making it close and people didn't want to play him, why should he quit.  Is there any of that with you, too?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, I guess so.  I mean, you never want to be going out hoping to win a round or two.  You'd like to still feel like you are challenging for the title.  I certainly felt like I reestablished myself this summer and even at this tournament. Disappointed I didn't come through today, but know that in my mind I had a very good opportunity to win here.  And we'll see.  I mean, jeez, Australian Open is still like four or five months away, so we'll see. 
 
Q.  What's the most attractive thing about not coming back?  If you say, "Tomorrow, I'm not coming back," what's the greatest part about that decision? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It's a full-time job and a lot of stress to always think, "Okay, am I working out enough?  Am I practicing enough?  Am I still getting better?  Do I really feel like I can win?"  Just a lot of stress questions like that.  It will be nice to know when you get up one day that it doesn't matter what I eat, doesn't matter what time I'm up.  I can do whatever I want today (smiling).  So that will be nice.  I don't know if that's going to be this fall or next year or two years; I don't know. 
 
Q.  At the end of the first set, can you tell us how you felt about your chances. 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, I mean, won the first set.  I came out playing very well.  Was handling the wind very well.  Felt good.  I mean, I had no reason at that point to doubt myself.  And even when I got down 2-1 a break, I still felt like I was playing well.  Somewhere along the line, I don't exactly know when, I believe it was around 4-2 when my leg got worse, then I knew I was at a disadvantage and it was an uphill battle. You know, she's a good player.  She was making me run.  She was serving well.  That's when it got a little tough. 
 
Q.  Did you have it retaped?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, the trainer added some more tape and made it a lot more restrictive.  Gave me a lot more support.  
 
Q.  At Wimbledon you said when you were talking about your future and all that stuff, you said that the wins weren't quite as wonderful, the losses weren't quite as painful now that you have so much perspective on the game and life.  Can you talk about that today.  How does this loss -- does this loss not feel as painful as it would have a couple years ago?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No, I mean, it's just disappointing, you know.  I mean, like I said, I mean, I'd rather lose playing 100 percent and have it be my fault.  While an injury technically is my fault, I just feel like maybe you would like to play one more set just at 100 percent for each of us, then see who wins. It's pretty disappointing as of right now.  I mean, hopefully tomorrow I get home, it will feel a lot better.  But it's still probably another day away from feeling better.  
 
Q.  Did this summer surprise you?  Did you in your heart think you were capable of playing that well again? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Probably not.  And I was surprised at kind of each tournament, and more surprised that I was able to keep it going.  And, you know, winning one or two tournaments, no, it's not a shock.  But to come through and to win four was pretty cool to me.  I mean, you know, would I give it all back to be able to win here?  Of course. But I think that I gave myself the best opportunity to perform well here.  Trained hard, played well, gained a lot of confidence and it didn't work out. But I feel a lot better about myself this year than I did last year at this time when I felt like I was, you know, barely hanging on, lucky to get to the semis.  Now I feel like I could have won here.  It's a lot different. 
 
Q.  Does that make you think about retirement differently than you were?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, probably.  I mean, you know, like I said, last year I felt like, "Oh, gosh, I got to semis.  That's good.  I think that's about as far as I can go." This year was definitely a different mindset about how far I could progress.  So hopefully, I mean... Little bit more exciting.  
 
Q.  At any time in this event were you mindful of all that bonus money you could have won? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  (Laughing) I mean, people would bring it up and stuff but, I mean, I've been pretty honest all along that I would take the trophy even if they reduced my money in half (smiling). You know, I mean, it was a great opportunity that they put out there for the players.  I was lucky enough to take advantage of the US Open Series and win it.  And, I mean, still get a nice bonus for the semis.  
 
Q.  The actual injury you have is what?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I think it's like a strain in the groin or hip flexor area.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about Svetlana?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  She's good.  I mean, she started off a little slow, but, you know, took control of her game a little bit better.  I think she's got a big forehand and was really kind of controlling the match a lot of times from that side. You know, I felt like when I wasn't able to really step in and force the ball, it was making life a little bit easier for her.  The ball was just kind of sitting there for her. But she's obviously a good player.  I mean, in the finals of doubles, too.  Very athletic.  Only 19.  I mean, I think she's going to be very good. 
 
Q.  Can you handicap the final. 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I mean, it's tough to say without knowing who gets there.  I mean, I would think that Jennifer, you know, even by virtue of not winning this match, is the favorite.  You know, she's had a difficult year and difficult summer and has turned it all around here.  Hopefully she can take advantage of this opportunity.  
 
Q.  Was there any sense that if you kept it close towards the end there that she might crack?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  You know, I was more worried about myself.  I wanted to more win it fast than have it close.  Just didn't feel like I was, you know, in a position to where I could step in and be aggressive.  And, you know, she wasn't gonna do it; my balls weren't that penetrating.  It wasn't like I was really able to force her.  I think at this level, that's probably too much to expect. 
 
Q.  Was there one shot or one move that you had done in practice or one of the matches that you think you did this on?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No, I don't.  You know, I think it's just something that happened over a lot of weeks of tennis.  I'm not exactly sure. 
 
Q.  Do you think you played too much on hard courts this summer? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No, I'm not going to second-guess anything.  I mean, a Grand Slam you have every other day off.  Your body should recover.  I've taken care of myself.  If I wasn't playing tournaments, I would have been practicing.  So, no, I just think it's bad luck and just two days too soon.  
 
Q.  Will you watch the final or do you just not want to see it?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, I probably won't (smiling). 
 
Q.  This great run you had would really rekindle the fire you have for playing more.  Do you feel that way at all or is it, "I played great, but that's still really not the issue." 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It did.  I mean, I definitely came into this Grand Slam more like a few years ago than the last couple years where I really felt like, you know, if I played well, I was going to win. I think it ends this run in disappointment that it ends this way.  You know, like I said, I lose at Wimbledon, fine with that.  Someone outplays me, I can handle that.  A little bummed that I didn't even give myself the chance to be outplayed.  So that's tough. But, you know, definitely, like I said, compared to 12 months ago, feel like I have better opportunities now than I did last year.  
 
Q.  Is it fair to say that the results this summer, the idea you could win here, has made you less certain about retiring?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  (Smiling) I swear, it's so hard to answer that.  I mean, some days I'd like to; other days, I don't want to.  But maybe.  I mean, it would be tough to walk away knowing that, "Oh, I still could have won a Slam," or, "I was still at the top.  I was ranked 2, 3 or whatever."  That probably makes it a little bit more challenging of a decision. 
 
Q.  Would you have considered that you might have retired from the game winning like Pete did?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No, I don't think so.  I think I would have tried to play a little bit more.  That's when it's really fun, when you're winning all the time. Thanks.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT