WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2004
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Lindsay, please.  
 
 
Q.  Are you going all the way? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  To the semifinals at least (smiling).  That's all I know now.  
 
Q.  No comment?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No, no.  
 
Q.  How pleased are you with today?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Happy.  You know, yesterday was -- you know, it was 4-4, but it was the toughest match I'd had here.  Coming out here, you never know what to expect.  I mean, she's very young, can obviously play great tennis.  I thought I handled the situation very well.  Got on top of her early in both sets and didn't really allow her to ever really dictate play too much.  You know, just really kept the pressure on her, I felt.  
 
Q.  Is this as good as you've felt?  How does this compare to your other Wimbledon semifinal?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It feels really good.  I mean, every match has been two sets, felt like I, most importantly, served well in every match.  That's saved me a lot.  So it's hard to compare.  I can't remember how well I was playing five years ago.  But I feel like at this point today, I'm hitting the ball well and serving well and doing the things that I need to do well on grass to succeed.  
 
Q.  I mentioned this to Jennifer.  With so much written, we're always looking for new faces, so much written about the young Russian women coming up, is it sort of interesting that you and Jennifer have been around for years, yet you're still going?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I think it's just a really great thing for us to achieve, just the consistency that we've had in our careers, the longevity.  I mean, this is like I think my 12th year, and to still be successful and still be at the top of the game is a huge accomplishment.  You know, I haven't won a Grand Slam in four years, but I feel like I've been - when healthy - in the Top 4 or 5 for almost the last eight years, seven years.  I mean, that's a pretty good accomplishment.  
 
Q.  As I understand, this is your last Wimbledon?  Is that definite? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Oh, no.  I can't be making statements like that here now.  
 
Q.  I think McEnroe or somebody or Tracy said on the BBC. 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  There's probably a good chance that's the case.  But nothing definitive.  
 
Q.  Will your performance at this year's Wimbledon help determine whether you'll be back?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No.  You know, I plan in my mind to, no matter what, play out this year and then kind of go over it in my mind again.  
 
Q.  You talked the other day about the problems tennis has in the United States with participation, popularity, TV ratings, et cetera.  Do you think this year, more than ever, it's important that there are two Americans in the final so that that can be given a little bit of a shot in the arm?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, I think in women's tennis, we've had so much success with American women the last few years, I don't know really what kind of overall factor that would bring.  I think the level of interest, especially in, like I said, women's tennis, with the Williams and Jennifer, myself, mostly due to the Williams and their just enormous popularity, tennis has gotten a little bit more popular and a little bit more reaching into other areas.  But I don't know overall what kind of impact that would have or would not have.  
 
Q.  Has it been the injuries that have taken their toll or is it just your desire to have your new life, your marriage, kind of move on from tennis that could possibly make this your last?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I think it's a factor of a lot of things.  I think, one, I still love to play tennis, and I still treat it very seriously.  But, I mean, there's no question, you know, marriage and everything else is a higher priority.  It just gets harder and harder to go away for weeks on end.  Most importantly I think injuries kind of curtail the excitement that there is to play.  You know, some days when you don't really feel all that eager to go practice, it just becomes harder and harder to do and more tedious.  So I have not set a definitive timetable.  I don't want this to become a major story.  But, you know, I mean, as you get older, I'm 28 now, I don't foresee myself playing many more, no. 
 
Q.  Is it weird, too, the locker room has changed, you don't have the camaraderie with the women that you obviously came in with, Monica and all the people you grew up with?  Is it strange now to just see a different generation in there?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I don't think it's strange.  It's intriguing.  I think it's funny, especially here, you know, to sit when there's six or seven Russians in the top locker room and there's only about 16 or 20 players in there.  That it's just different.  It's not any worse or any better.  I mean, a lot of my good friends don't play anymore.  They're retired now.  But, you know, I still have some friends around and it's still -- if I didn't enjoy it at all, I wouldn't be here at all.  So there's still some enjoyment left. 
 
Q.  With young players like Golovin and Sharapova and Sprem, do you sense your possible exit, sort of a changing of the guard a little bit?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No.  I think that young players come up all the time and older players go out all the time.  I think "changing the guard" is a little severe.  I think one point in the '90, we lost Novotna, we lost Graf, we lost Navratilova, Sanchez.  Still players like the Williams come up and take over the game.  I think that's just the natural cycle that happens. 
 
Q.  What are your thoughts on Sharapova's game, what you need to do to be successful against her?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, I think she has a big game.  I think I've always been honest with the fact that I'm a huge fan of her game and how she plays.  It's going to be a good match-up.  She serves well and hits big groundstrokes.  So I hopefully look to take her out of that.  I'd like to be able to serve well and serve a lot of consistent first serves, if I can, and try and keep the balls hard and deep and not let her get a first -- get ahead in the rally, get the offensive.  You know, that's about it.  It's not, you know, really strategic game plan, it's just kind of the basics I feel I need to do well.  
 
Q.  How similar is her style to yours?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  You know, could be similar.  I haven't watched her play all that much.  I've seen glimpses here and there.  We're both baseliners and we both hit pretty hard.  In those terms, I guess they're pretty similar. 
 
Q.  At this stage of the game, is grass your best surface?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  The faster surfaces definitely make life a lot more easy for myself, whether it's a fast hard court or fast indoor court or grass.  Definitely feel more comfortable -- the faster the court, the better. 
 
Q.  No difference between them? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Between?  
 
Q.  Well, grass and indoor, hard courts, outdoor hard courts. 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  You know, anything fast I'll take. 
 
Q.  You said you're going to play out the year and then sit and reflect and decide.  What is going to make that decision for you?  What don't you know at this moment that you think you'll know at the end of the year?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, I don't know.  It could be next week, it could be six months from now, it could be eight months.  I think there will just come a time when I'll know.  I don't believe in announcing a farewell tour and saying, "Oh, this is the last this place, the last this place."  I mean, I'm just going to walk away when I feel like I don't want to be out here competing and feel like I can really be a factor anymore.  
 
Q.  What do you credit your longevity to? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  You know, I don't know.  It's been, you know, an amazing career, such a consistent career in terms of rankings and results and everything in that regard.  I really don't know.  I mean, I know that I've always made really great contact with the ball and hit the ball well, stuff like that.  I've worked really hard on trying to improve the areas of my game that I felt needed to be improved and needed to be better.  I don't know too much more, though.  
 
Q.  Karolina said in her press conference that you had the game to go on and win the tournament here.  You certainly showed it today.  You made a very good player who has done well at this tournament look distinctly average.  Do you think it's now a case of whether your game -- whether you can bring that game to your semifinal?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I hope so.  I mean, I think that a lot of times my performance revolves around how I'm feeling and how I play.  You know, sometimes definitely the other player's too good, but more times for me personally I feel like it's my fault win or lose, or it's up to me.  You know, face my toughest opponent yet in the next round, someone that hits very hard and can take me out of my game.  I'm going to try to do that to her first.  Feel like if I can play up to a certain standard, a level of tennis for the next match, I've got a great chance.  Then I'll take it from there if I need to.  
 
Q.  What message do you think it's sending out that players, more experienced players such as yourself, are still doing well here at Wimbledon?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Well, I think it's great.  But, you know, three weeks ago everyone was saying how the older players weren't doing well because two new players got to the French.  It changes as each tournament goes on and depending what surface we're playing on.  But I still have a lot of confidence in myself, especially the faster the court the better.  And I've always -- the last few years anyways, have been very good record here at Wimbledon and I've enjoyed playing here very much.  
 
Q.  What's been the lowest point with the injuries?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Just having two surgeries in about a year and a half is just tough to deal with.  As soon as I came back from my knee, early the next year, I had some problems with my foot.  And it lasted six or seven months before I had to have surgery for that.  I think it just kind of breaks it up.  This year I've been really fortunate that I have had no major injuries.  You know, I've enjoyed it so much more.  It really is amazing when you go through stuff like that, how you take for granted just feeling healthy and waking up from a match and not hurting to put shoes on or to walk around.  So I'm glad that this year I've really gotten a chance to play with no major setbacks.  
 
Q.  Can you give us a scouting report on Serena versus Jennifer?  We've seen them play.  How do you see that playing out?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It's a good match.  I look forward to watching that tomorrow.  I think Jennifer is playing really well.  I watched a bit of her play today against Petrova.  I think the grass probably favors Serena slightly, because I think she enjoys the fast surface.  Probably even tougher to get her serve back.  But, you know, Jennifer beat her in Paris, has a lot of confidence I think here, and is fast enough and gets a lot of balls back.  She's going to definitely make Serena play.  I think it's up to Serena, how consistent she is with her groundstrokes and how well she serves.  
 
Q.  You never played Sharapova. 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I really don't think so (smiling).  
 
Q.  Robert obviously had a big influence in your development, has worked with her, as well.  Can you talk about that? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, I think it's exciting.  I think a lot of times he -- Robert Lansdorp doesn't get a ton of credit for the players that worked with him.  Pete worked with him for a bit.  I worked with him from about 9 to maybe 14.  He had a huge influence on my game, especially the years I was developing what shots and my strokes.  He's the one that really molded my game in that regard.  Other people then took me onto the professional level, but he's been a very important influence on my life.  I think he's been the same for Maria.  Although I think she also goes to Bollettieri's and maybe a couple other people.  He's a great guy and one that's always had a special place in my life.  Still a really big fan of his.  
 
Q.  Will you talk to him before this match?
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No.  I haven't talked -- I mean, no.  I mean, I haven't talked to him, haven't called him for 15 years about a match.  I see him and stuff, but no.  I think I still know his phone number, which is pretty good. 
 
Q.  A lot has been made about Serena's outside interests.  It probably brings more to tennis with all the magazines she's in and everything like that.  Have you noticed a change in her kind of lust for the game, whether it's affected her play at all? 
 
LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  It's tough to say that that would affect her play when she's still coming back from being off the tour for eight months because of a pretty major knee surgery.  I think that they're remarkable in their regards to being able to balance a lot of stuff and still have a successful career.  They've been able to do that the last few years.  But I would kind of rate her performance this year as not being as good as last year, more for being out of the game for so long and probably not being able to hit a ball for - who knows - four or five months.  It took her so long to come back and she's probably still feeling her way back and feeling confidence in her knee.  I would contribute (sic) it more to that than photo shoots and everything else she does.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT