WIMBLEDON
June 21, 2004
Lindsay Davenport
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Lindsay. 


Q.  Can you tell me how you feel coming out here?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Yeah, I was really excited to get out on the court today.  It was tough waiting around, but was really relieved when I saw my match was going to be able to get played.  I thought I opened up the tournament really well.  I played aggressive, felt like I was hitting the ball well, serving well.  I mean, I'm really happy with the way things went.

Q.  You're right where you want to be?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Exactly.  I feel like the last few days - I got her Wednesday- really helped me get prepared and turned my game into a positive in the last few days. 

Q.  Can you tell me, where do you stay when you come here?  Do you rent a house, stay in a hotel?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I have a rented flat here in the village.  I love staying out here.  I've stayed out here the last probably six years.  Actually probably stayed nine out of the 11 I played.  I only stayed in the city once or twice.  I rather enjoy it out here. 

Q.  Like a homey feeling?  Do you cook when you're here?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  No.  I bring take-in quite a bit.  My mom is here with me for the first time this year.  She'll cook a little bit.  It's a nice little town, very convenient to getting to the courts here. 

Q.  I'm doing a story on accommodations.  Do you do that at other tournaments or is this easy and natural?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  Maybe a handful of other ones.  At the other Slams, I always stay at a hotel.  This one, I think the convenience factor is very huge and a big part of staying nearby.  If you can get a nice place, you got to search a little bit, but the restaurants are great, and it's just super easy to be able to walk home.  If there's rain delays, go home if you're later in the day, everything that's included with it.

Q.  Do you go on the Internet a lot?  Can you tell me your top five sites that you like to visit?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  I do.  I stopped traveling with a laptop a couple years ago.  I have brought one here, though.  My five top sites would probably be AOL to get mail.  E Online, I like to read some gossip stuff.  Embarrassingly enough NeimanMarcus.com.  Probably ESPN.com.  For a fifth one, I don't know.  Those are probably the four.

Q.  Any news?

LINDSAY DAVENPORT:  On AOL they have quite a bit of news.  I usually search like top news stories from there.  Four is pretty good.  And the WTA Tour, of course (laughter). 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT