NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: MAPLE LEAFS v HURRICANES
May 18, 2002
Shayne Corson
Alyn McCauley
Darcy Tucker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Needless to say, staying out of the penalty box a lot more would be much more in order, you probably can't afford it to be able to win again? 
 
SHAYNE CORSON:   That's for sure.  Their power play is too good for us to be in the penalty box and it's going to cost us if we keep doing that.  We've got to be more careful to stay out of the box as much as possible. 
 
Q.  Can you pinpoint why you've been able to be so successful on the road, after losing the first four.   Anything that you can pinpoint?
 
SHAYNE CORSON:   Not really.  Just keeping it simple and playing our game.  I think it's just being more confident and playing better all around, and even at home.  Really can't put my finger on it.   Just playing hard and playing simple. 
 
Q.  As we see some of the injured guys coming back onto the ice, to any of the guys on the team that have come up from St. John's, what do you tell them? 
 
SHAYNE CORSON: The guys who have come up from St. John's  have played great for us.  Obviously, just tell them to stay positive and work hard and stay ready, because in the playoffs, you never know when you're going to be used.  Guys get injured, they get tired, so they just have to be ready and stay positive.  
 
Q.  Do you get the impression that you'll get some bodies back?
 
SHAYNE CORSON:   We're starting to feel that way.  We'd love to see them come back, the guys we are missing are a big part of our team.  Like I said, the guys who have come up have done a great job and we'll continue to play with the guys we have now.  
 
Q.  Based on the skating today, it seems there's a bit of chemistry there; any concern that guys won't get the same ice time if other players do come back?
 
ALYN McCAULEY:   I don't think they have thought about it a whole lot  -- or have not thought about it much.  If Mats comes back, I'm sure that he should get slotted and play the first line, play the first power play because he's done that for us all year long.  It was because of an injury that I got slotted in there.  He deserves to be there and I'm sure he will if he returns to the lineup. 
 
Q.  Any danger of disrupting the chemistry? 
 
ALYN McCAULEY:   Well, when you have a player of Mats caliber, sliding him in there is not going to hurt those guys at all.  
 
Q.  What about your role? 
 
ALYN McCAULEY:   I'll try to find some ice time and try to contribute.  
 

Q.  What's your status? 
 
DARCY TUCKER:   Obviously, I feel better today, but we'll see how it feels tomorrow and we'll go by that.  It's probably not healed up but it feels a lot better than it did.  
 
Q.  Do you want to play tomorrow or can you mentally wait until Game 3?  How do you feel about it emotionally? 
 
DARCY TUCKER:   Well, you always want to be in the lineup.  I think that's not even a question.  Anybody that's competitive wants to be out there and playing and be part of this.  But we want to get another win here.  The guys played and got a big victory and that was huge for us.  But guys have been playing a lot and it's tough on the body.  So hopefully get some guys back and give them opportunity to rest on certain occasions; that would be great for them.  
 
Q.  There are people who are wondering just how you could possibly play nine days after a dislocation and a break in the shoulder.  Medically that doesn't sound possible, but are you a quick healer? 
 
DARCY TUCKER:   The bone is not healed.  That's not the main issue.  The main issue is how the shoulder itself is, and whether it's capable of taking the hitting and the banging of a playoff-type game.  I skated yesterday and took some pucks and stuff like that to see how it would feel; and today in full practice, I felt confident out there with the puck.  So we'll see how it goes.  I'm not committing to anything.  We are just taking it day by day.  I've talked to the doctors every day since it happened, and it's progressively got better strength-wise.  So I think that's the number-one thing.  There's some discomfort there, but other than that I feel not bad.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT