THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 6, 2015
Zachary Blair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Zac, you finally get to play with your idol, and I'm sure this wasn't quite the scenario that you imagined.   What was that like?  
ZAC BLAIR:   I mean, it was obviously still great to play with him.   He's one of the best players to ever play.   It was nice to meet him.   I enjoyed playing well.   It would have been nice to see him play a little bit better, but he's working through some things.   He'll get back playing good.  
   
 Q.   When you've seen him struggle like that, is it shocking when you know where he's been?  
ZAC BLAIR:   Like I said, he's just kind of working through some things, obviously it takes some time to work through some swing changes and stuff like that.   But like I said, he's the best player to ever play, in my opinion.   He'll get back to playing good.  
   
 Q.   Do you have dreams about playing with Tiger Woods, and in those dreams do you ever beat him by 15 shots?  
ZAC BLAIR:   Yeah, I've always wanted to play with him.   As a little kid that was kind of my dream growing up.   But it was unfortunate to see him not play great.   But I hope to get to play with him again.  
   
 Q.   What was your reaction at the first tee shot‑‑ when you first saw the tee time?  
ZAC BLAIR:   Excited, obviously.   It was like the coolest thing ever.  
   
 Q.   Had you spoken to him before?  
ZAC BLAIR:   I had got his autograph when I was a little kid, maybe, but it was the first time I'd ever met him.  
   
 Q.   What was your reaction early on?   Was there chitchat?  
ZAC BLAIR:   Yeah, he was great the whole round.   He obviously had a tough day.   But he was super nice, super friendly, was always willing to talk.   And I thought we got along great.   It was fun.  
   
 Q.   As you're getting ready to tee off and you're standing on the tee by yourself, Tiger is still on the putting green and you're waiting on him, nervous?   What's going through your head?  
ZAC BLAIR:   Not really.   Like I said, it's kind of what you dreamed of your whole life, playing in front of a lot of people.   I wish he would have played better, but it was still fun.   It was nice to see all the fans out there supporting us.   But it is what it is.  
   
 Q.   Are you aware of when you got his autograph?  
ZAC BLAIR:   The PGA at Valhalla, maybe somewhere else, another PGA that my dad was playing in.  
   
 Q.   How did you come to know Tiger?  
ZAC BLAIR:   Just watching him on TV.   I don't really know exactly how old I was.   Maybe like six, seven years ago, five, six, seven probably, just watching him on TV.  
   
 Q.   As he's struggling out there, and you see him struggling, what do you take away, if anything, seeing how he handled it?  
ZAC BLAIR:   I thought he handled it great.   He never got super outwardly emotional.   I thought he handled it pretty good.   It was obviously, like you guys said, maybe the worst round he's ever played.   But I don't think he ever got disrespectful out there.   And he was always super courteous to me and friendly.   It was nice to see that.  
   
 Q.   How did your round go?  
ZAC BLAIR:   I played good.   I had it going pretty good, kind of had a little bump in the road on 16, but made a couple of nice pars on 17 and 18, which was nice.  
   
 Q.   Did you find yourself trying to encourage him a little bit as he was struggling or did you stay away from that?  
ZAC BLAIR:   I was probably pretty nervous.   I was trying to stay out of his way.  
   
 Q.   Did you say anything to him after the round on the 18th green?  
ZAC BLAIR:   He just told me a heck of a round and was really courteous and everything like that.   I just told him I hoped to play with him soon.  
   
 Q.   Was your dad in the gallery?  
ZAC BLAIR:   Yeah, he flew in yesterday.   I think he was just as excited as me.  
   
 Q.   Did you talk to him last night?  
ZAC BLAIR:   I think he was always supposed to come out.   He was supposed to come out yesterday, but I think after he saw the pairing he was definitely not going to miss that.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
ZAC BLAIR:   No, I think he was still coming out.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT