WOODBINE OAKS DRAW CEREMONY
June 10, 2010
Nick Eaves
Dan Loiselle
Joannie Rochette
Andrew Sequeira
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


   THE MODERATOR: Thank you for joining us. We'll get the proceedings underway. It is my distinct pleasure to welcome for the Woodbine Oaks draw legendary announcer Mr. Dan Loiselle.   
 DAN LOISELLE: Thank you, sir. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I'm Dan Loiselle. On behalf of Woodbine Entertainment and Labatt Breweries, welcome to WEGZ Stadium Bar and the draw for the 55th edition of the $500,000 Woodbine presented by Budweiser. Woodbine Entertainment is very pleased to continue its relationship with Labatt Breweries, the distributor of Budweiser in Canada. They are a tremendous corporate partner and the Woodbine Oaks presented by Budweiser is the first fuel of Canada's Triple Tiara and without a doubt the most important race for three-year-old fillies in this country.   
 We here at Woodbine Entertainment owe a great deal of gratitude to Labatt Breweries. Through their hard work and dedication, they have helped elevate the Woodbine Oaks presented by Budweiser to another level. In fact, on Sunday afternoon, 350 VIP guests of Labatt will be enjoying the race in our tent area having a big ol' party, many of them never having been to the races before. Not only will they have great races to watch on Sunday afternoon, we'll be introducing new fans to the sport.   
 Speaking of parties on Oaks Day, Q107 will be hosting their own trackside party, live entertainment, a chance to meet the Budweiser girls and at chance to win a 2011 Ford Mustang coup donated by Markville Ford and Craig Riley. Craig, are you here this afternoon? Thanks very much for the Mustang.   
 It will be hosted by Ryan Parker and John Garbutt of Derringer in the Morning. It should be popping at Woodbine on Sunday afternoon.   
 Also ladies and gentlemen on Oaks Day, it will be Community Day at Woodbine with Woodbine's community partners setting up booths throughout the racetrack. Stop by and pay those community partners a visit.   
 With it being Oaks Day, this is very important to us, the females taking center stage on Sunday, Woodbine Entertainment has taken the opportunity to raise awareness of women's issues. The jockeys in the Oaks on Oaks Day will be wearing purple arm bands with white logos stitched in them signifying ending violence against women. Ernestine's Women's Shelter will be collecting donations of baby food, diapers, formula, et cetera, for their food bank, which provides food to more than 30 families each and every week. Bring some of those items along with you on Sunday and help a very worthy cause.   
 At this time would you please join me in welcoming the president and chief executive officer of Woodbine Entertainment, Nick Eaves.   
 NICK EAVES: Thank you very much, Danny. I, too, wanted to welcome everybody back to WEGZ Stadium Bar for the post position draw for the Woodbine Oaks presented by Budweiser. If you can believe it, we're nine weeks into the Woodbine thoroughbred season. We've run 17 stakes races already. Although I think for most people, it really is Oaks Day that represents the beginning of the big event season at Woodbine and that's certainly going to be the case this year. You're about to be introduced to the deep field of three-year-old fillies in Canada. That obviously is the feature race on Sunday.   
 In addition to the Oaks, we're also going to be very during the Queen's Plate Trial. That obviously adds another element of events to the day. Each of the races will be something pretty special in their own right, but I think in addition to that, what they'll do is really give us a glimpse of what they can expect on the 4th of July for the 151st running of the Queen's Plate Stakes.   
 Danny already mentioned our partnership with Labatt Breweries Canada. I want to reiterate how important a relationship that is. I wanted to welcome Andrew to the horse racing business. Certainly the Oaks brand and the Budweiser brand have evolved together as we have jointly marketed this sport and race. Our team looks forward to working with you, Andrew.   
 Shortly, Danny is going to introduce our guest of honor Joannie Rochette. Those who understand the challenge of adversity, I want to say and thank you for the spectacular performance in Vancouver. You showed a grace and a strength of character that made all of Canada proud. For that, thank you.   
 It's going to be fantastic racing on Sunday. I know you're all going to be there. We're expecting to have a heck of a big crowd. To all the connections with the horses and race on Sunday, the very best of racing luck. Thank you.   
 DAN LOISELLE: Ladies and gentlemen, some of thoroughbred's racing heroines of turf have captured this storied race, including Milwaukee Appeal who won the Oaks last year and was subsequently named Canada's three-year-old filly champion. She added her name to a list of other great fillies who won the Oaks, Sealy Hill, Wonder Wear, Glorious Dancer and Dance Smartly. Could another star emerge this year? If I could direct your attention throughout the room, here are the starters of the Woodbine Oaks presented by Budweiser.   
  
(Video Shown.)  
  
DAN LOISELLE: Thanks to Woodbine Entertainment department for the production of that video.   
 Please join me in welcoming Andrew Siqueira, the regional distributor for Labatt Breweries.   
 ANDREW SEQUEIRA: I'm here representing Labatt Breweries of Canada, most notably today of Budweiser. Budweiser has been a strong supporter of sports all across the world from the World Cup. Budweiser is the official sponsor of the World Cup as well as it being the official sponsor of the NFL. Woodbine is a key piece of that puzzle for the Budweiser brand and for the Labatt family. It is my first time here and I'm excited to get going with the horse racing business and learning all about it.   
 Labatt is a proud sponsor of Woodbine and we're excited to be here and be here to say we wish all the participants well in their events on Sunday and again looking to a great Sunday and some ice cold Budweiser. Thank you all.   
 DAN LOISELLE: Thank you very much, Andrew.   
 Ladies and gentlemen, our special guest today is Canadian figure skating champion Joannie Rochette. Her outstanding presence on the ice immediately captures your attention. Dynamic, powerful and magical are words that describe her. Following her performance in this year's Vancouver Olympics, we can add the word 'courageous'. Taking up figure skating at the age of six, she has skyrocketed to stardom. She's the reigning world figure skating silver medalist, she is the six-time Canadian champion, and winner of the bronze medal at this year's Olympic Games in Vancouver.   
 Two days before the beginning of the ladies' figure skating competition at the Winter Olympics, her mother died of a heart attack shortly after arriving in Vancouver to watch her daughter compete.   
 Under incredible circumstances, Rochette, who few thought would even take to the ice, didn't just compete, she delivered. She didn't just attempt, she soared. She didn't just inspire us with her determination, she thrilled us with her grace, poise and ability. She became a Canadian legend, winning the bronze medal and capturing the hearts of a nation. Very fittingly, Joannie was chosen as the flag bearer for the 2010 closing ceremonies.   
 If I could direct your attention to the television monitors throughout the room, we have a short video presentation.   
  
(Video Shown.)  
  
DAN LOISELLE: Please welcome Joannie Rochette.   
 JOANNIE ROCHETTE: Thank you. Thank you very much.   
 DAN LOISELLE: I couldn't watch it. I turned into a puddle. You flew in from Montréal this morning. I understand you had a bit of a celebration in your hometown last night. Tell us about that.   
 JOANNIE ROCHETTE: Yeah, it was great to finally see people from where I'm from. I saw them at the funeral, but I wasn't in a great place at the funeral. Being together with my family, friends, a girl from the skating club where I started to skate. It was really inspiring for me for them to be being inspired by me. It was fun to be with them, have time to rest.   
 I was away doing shows for a while. I got back from Korea two days ago. It felt good to settle down and be with my people.   
 DAN LOISELLE: Tell us about your first set of skates.   
 JOANNIE ROCHETTE: My first set of skates was actually two blade skates that you put onto your boots so it's easier for balance. I was actually 22 months old. My father was a hockey coach. When he took me to the ice, I was very, very young.   
 I live on an island. We used to go ice fishing in the winter. So my father thought it was cool sometimes. He would take the snow away so I could skate on the pond and I would check the lines at the same time.   
 DAN LOISELLE: When you first heard of your mother's passing, were there any immediate thoughts, like, I can't compete? What went through your mind when you heard about your mom?   
 JOANNIE ROCHETTE: There were maybe four or five people around me when they announced me the news. My first reaction was to say, Tell everyone I'm going to skate, tell it to the press, then there was no way I could back down. Of course, there were some moments where I told myself, Okay, what am I doing here? I just want to go back home.   
 At the same time 'home' felt right in Vancouver because my mother's body was there, my family was there to cheer me up. So I also wanted to do this for my father who was there to support me. I wanted to prove to him that I could do it, all those years he's been behind me. If I couldn't do it for myself, I could do it for them, too. Great to have so many people support me there, too.   
 In the end, I felt such a good feeling of completion to just having done that.   
 DAN LOISELLE: Tell us about your mother a little. What were her dreams? What did you learn from her? How was your relationship with your mom?   
 JOANNIE ROCHETTE: Well, I think every mother wants the best for their child. Ever since I started to skate, she would always push me to my abilities, to my talents so I could always go for my dreams. She always said, When you start something, you need to finish it. I'm glad she did that because I became the person I am today because of her.   
 It's pretty hard to accept that she left without me having the time to say bye to her. But at the same time she's still part of my life because she gave me so much and I still feel her influence and her voice in whatever I do. I still hear her comments. She was pretty tough sometimes. But very dynamic lady. I can still hear her comments in whatever I do, Don't do that, do this. It's great I got to know her so much.  
 DAN LOISELLE: The short program is about to begin. You skate onto the ice. The world is watching. What is going through your mind as the short program starts?   
 JOANNIE ROCHETTE: Actually usually the short program is the more nerve-wracking program for me because you only have three jumping elements and you can't mess up otherwise you can be from third to tenth if you make a small mistake. That's always the hardest for me. At that time I wasn't so nervous for the skating, I was more nervous to get to my starting position in the required one minute, keep my emotions in and be able to get there. Once the music starts, you did it so many times in practice, it kind of gets automatic, you don't have to think.   
 It was pretty tough. But I got to my place before the one minute and everything went good. I didn't think about anything while I started.   
 DAN LOISELLE: Third after the short program. Two days later, the free skate. You have a chance to medal. You must have felt in Pacific Coliseum the love in the building. Everybody rooting for you to do well, not only Canada, but the world. Could you recognize that electricity in the building on free skate afternoon?   
 JOANNIE ROCHETTE: Yes, of course. I was a bit more aware of everything. I mean, during the short program, there was so much emotion when I got out there that it didn't really sink in. But for the free skate, I was a bit more aware of the situation, that I was at the Olympics and it really hit me there. Usually I'm more confident on the free skate when I have a good place in the short because it's more about endurance. I know I can do those tricks at the end of the program. So I'm a bit more confident.   
 At the same time, you're at the Olympics, you have a shot to make your dream happen, to be on the podium. It really hit me there. I felt a bit more pressure, but at the same time so much encouragement from people. So many letters I got from people.   
 DAN LOISELLE: Speaking of letters, you must have gotten hundreds of emails and phone calls. Was there one in particular that stood out for you among the many emails you received?   
 JOANNIE ROCHETTE: Well, actually there was one special phone call from Celine Dion, who is my favorite singer. I was so impressed, I couldn't believe she was on the phone.   
 DAN LOISELLE: She lost her father as well.   
 JOANNIE ROCHETTE: She lost her father and she told me she had to perform the same night her father died. That was inspiring to hear. Also a little girl, she was eight years old at the time, she wrote to me, a figure skater. We knew her through my coach. She lost her mother. Her mother was only 35. She had to skate the next weekend. The last sentence of her letter was, If I can do it, you can do this. That was very inspiring to me that someone so young could really have that courage. It inspired me to skate. All those moments when I wanted to go home, I inspired myself on that.   
 DAN LOISELLE: Besides winning the bronze medal, what was the favorite experience?   
 JOANNIE ROCHETTE: The hockey team winning at the end, I was there to see it, pretty exciting. Also I was very honored and flattered to be chosen as the flag bearer. That was a great moment. I wanted to live everything fully while I was there because I know my mother was watching and that's what she want would want me to do.   
 DAN LOISELLE: How has your life changed since Vancouver?   
 JOANNIE ROCHETTE: Just a little bit more busy. I don't have so much time for my boyfriend anymore. He's coming with me to some events. Other than that, it's different to be recognized on the streets of Montréal openly. It's great.   
 Just for example, I was walking in the street the other day, I started to pet a cat. The owner of the cat came out and says, This is Joannie Rochette, let's take a picture.   
 At the same time it's very great. People are nice and respect my private life, too.   
 DAN LOISELLE: What are you doing now and what are you about to do in the near future?   
 JOANNIE ROCHETTE: I did some shows right now. I'm trying to keep skating for the next four years. I don't know if it will be amateur or professionally. I want to finish school. One more class. It's taken me seven years. But I started it, I'm going to finish it next year finally. Maybe this summer comes the race. I've never seen horse racing before. It's really getting me excited to be here today.   
 DAN LOISELLE: I don't think I'm telling you anything you don't know. The way you handled yourself with such grace, dignity, the courage you showed, you're an absolutely amazing person. We are so proud to call you a Canadian and thanks for taking the time in joining us today.   
 JOANNIE ROCHETTE: Thank you very much. It's an honor for me to be here.   
 DAN LOISELLE: Joannie Rochette, ladies and gentlemen.   
 Ladies and gentlemen, Stich Lym, our director of racing and our racing secretary at Woodbine Entertainment. The Oaks close with eight fillies. The purse for the Oaks presented by Budweiser is $500,000. The winner will receive $300,000. Assisting us with the draw are our Budweiser girls Claudia and Alexandra. They'll put their names on the board. Joannie, your job, when I ask for them, pull them out one at the same time random. Steve will put in eight numbers. We're going to coordinate the two, the names and numbers, and we're in business.   
 Joannie was saying for figure skating, they have a draw, too. Nobody wants to be first. Sometimes it's that way in horse racing as well.   
 One at a time to me and we're in business.   
 The first Oaks filly out of the box is Resentless, Post 2.   
 The next one is Ernfold, Post 8. Owned by Jim and Susan Hill, trained by Roger Attfield.   
 Embur's Song, Post 6. Trained by Todd Pletcher who saddled the derby winner this year. Garrett Gomez will ride Embur's Song from Post 6.   
 The next one is Roan Inish, Post 3. David Moran in his first Oaks ride will fly in from Ireland to ride Roan Inish, Post 3.   
 Moment of Majesty, Post 7. Will be ridden by Robert Landry, who won the Oaks three times, Capdiva, Catch the Ring, and (indiscernible). Moment of Majesty, Post 7.   
 Oil Painting, Post 5. Josie Carroll trained, was second in '08. Patrick Husbands, aboard Kimchi and Sealy Hill, will ride Oil Painting from Post 5.   
 Tee Game, Post 4. Owned by the Hendry stable. Trained by Michael John Doyle, won with Blondeinamotel, will ride Tee Game from Post 4.   
 Isabeau's Elegance inherits the rail. Rode by Corey Fraser, Post 1.   
 There you have it, ladies and gentlemen, the field for the Woodbine Oaks presented by Budweiser.   
 Ladies and gentlemen, let me quickly give you the Morning Line. I won't give you the entire field, but when wagering opens on Sunday, Embur's Song 9-5, Ernfold 5-2, Resentless 3-1, Roan Inish will open at 6-1.   
 Ladies and gentlemen that concludes the proceedings this afternoon. Thanks for joining us.   
 I should also mention, especially to members of the media, besides the press kit, daily updates for the Woodbine Oaks presented by Budweiser, you can go to WoodbineOaks.com. There's lots of facts, some terrific information. Avail yourself.   
 If you can't make it to the track on Sunday afternoon, the Woodbine Oaks, along with the Plate Trial Stakes, is back on CBC this year, with the show airing from 4:30 till 5:30. Enjoy. Thanks again. We'll see you on Sunday afternoon. End.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT