AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 19, 2005
Karol Beck
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Is that one of the best wins of your career? 

KAROL BECK:  Yeah, I can put it on top five.  It was just second round, but the player, Tommy, is very good player, so I'm going to put for sure in my top five results. 

Q.  What about coming from two sets down in the heat? 

KAROL BECK:  Yeah, it was pretty hot.  But I saw he got some problems in beginning third set.  He start making more mistakes, not moving very well.  So I was trying to catch the chance. Third set was pretty easy for me, but then in the fourth he start to run I think much better and making not much mistakes.  So I'm happy that I won the tiebreak. In the third I saw him, he was starting to cramping so I broke him once - I broke him twice, in 5-3.  Then I finish the match, so I'm very happy.

Q.  What was the heat like out there?

KAROL BECK:  It was pretty hot.  I was surprised.  I play five sets and I was not feeling that tired, so I am very happy.

Q.  Do you think you're likely to feel it tomorrow?

KAROL BECK:  I think I'm going to play doubles, so we'll see. 

Q.  Do you know what happened near the end when Haas walked off and the umpire followed him?  What was that all about, do you know?

KAROL BECK:  I don't know.  I just went other side, to the crowd, and I turn and I saw the umpire was running somewhere.  I don't know.  I was thinking he fall down when he played the volley, so maybe he got cramping or something. 

Q.  Do you always play that many dropshots?  Is that normal? 

KAROL BECK:  Yeah, yeah, I like dropshot.  I mean, I saw him.  He had some problems so that's why I was playing the dropshots.  It was I think good strategy to make him run.  So that's why I was putting much more dropshots today.

Q.  It certainly seemed to work for you.  Has it ever worked as well as that, that tactic?

KAROL BECK:  Yeah, yeah, is work. 

Q.  You're now playing Olivier Rochus in the next round.  How well do you know him?

KAROL BECK:  Yeah, I know him very well.  I played him last year in Marseille.  He's very talented.  He move very well on the court, so I know it's gonna be tough match.  But also I am playing good here, so I'm looking forward to this match.

Q.  What will your strategy be then? 

KAROL BECK:  I can't tell you (laughter).

Q.  Is that a secret?

KAROL BECK:  Yes.

Q.  Does that give you confidence, though, going forward in the tournament today, that you can come back and win in five sets in these conditions?

KAROL BECK:  Yeah, I think I have more.  I play two good matches here, especially this one.  It was much tougher player than the first round.  So, yeah, I'm looking focus and I hope I'm going to play the same level like today. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT