US OPEN
September 7, 2004
Karol Beck
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Can you give us your impressions of how Lleyton played and how it was different from what you were expecting?
 
KAROL BECK:  I was expecting much more from me.  Today it was not really my day.  I played not really good.  My serve, I couldn't hold my serve too much.  The first serve, I didn't put a lot of serve in, so Lleyton, it was an easy way to break me.  He play, I think, his average.  Not really good, but it was easy to beat me because today was not really my day, so I'm little bit of -- I'm disappointed. 
 
Q.  Was it the occasion? 
 
KAROL BECK:  No, I wasn't nervous before the match.  Maybe I was thinking I can play better and better, and that's why I play well (sic). 
 
Q.  Any chance you might be underestimating him? 
 
KAROL BECK:  No.  
 
Q.  How far do you think he can go in this tournament? 
 
KAROL BECK:  I think he can win the next round.  I mean, depends, Haas or Berdych.  He's playing a good game.  I think his serve is better than Haas.  He can go to semifinals.  If Roddick get in, it will be good match.  
 
Q.  You never played him before.  Did you expect his serve to be that good?
 
KAROL BECK:  I was thinking before his serve is not that big.  Also the second he was serving pretty good.  So, yeah, today he serve very well and I was surprised.  So I didn't put a lot of returns.  He was serving good.  
 
Q.  Can you give us an idea of what your plans will be until the Davis Cup tie against Germany?  Then the other guys, Karol Kucera, Dominik Hrbaty, will you play the other tournaments or will you prepare early for the tie?
 
KAROL BECK:  Dominik is going to play Beijing next week, and me and Karol, we gonna stay at home and take some day rest after tournament and then we gonna prepare for Davis Cup tie.  
 
Q.  Nicolas Kiefer is 100 percent out with his wrist injury he suffered yesterday against Henman.  What do you think of the chances of Slovakia now?
 
KAROL BECK:  We have bigger chances now because Nicolas, in this time he is playing really good tennis.  I think he is No. 1 now player in Germany. So we have bigger chances, and it will be a good, tight match between both teams.  I think, yeah, we have better chances to beat him now, so it's good for us.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT