DAVIS CUP - SLOVAK REPUBLIC vs USA
February 8, 2002
Karol Beck
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Would you like to have those two forehands back serving for the set in the fourth set, 30-All you had the one, the short forehand and then   --

KAROL BECK: Yeah, I was pretty like nervous so I have to take a fourth set.  But I think after the game Jan told me the second one like forehand will be maybe good so was like mad or something.  Then I finished, was so bad.  But I play very good.  I made very good pass shot, everything.  So I served really well.  Yeah, I played good. 

Q.  Nerves, did you feel it because it was Pete Sampras or did you just look at him as another guy?

KAROL BECK: First set I was nervous, but then I lost my nervous so everything was okay.  First set was so bad I make so many doublefaults, but fourth was okay.

Q.  The third set, I mean, you win the tiebreak in the second set; you win the first five points in the third, then just was that him or was that you?

KAROL BECK: I think it is me.  I don't know what happened, I lost my mind or something.  I was very happy, then I won the second set.  I played second set was very good.  I returned serve, everything was good.  Then I was happy and then I lost my mind. 

Q.  Before you went to go out and serve out the fourth set did Captain Mecir tell you anything?

KAROL BECK: He just said:  Stay with him like good serve, stay with him and play harder to his backhand because he was there, like not so good so, that's it.

Q.  Do you feel good about pushing the match as far as you did?   Some people might have thought it was going to be three straight sets.

KAROL BECK: Well, before the match I was thinking like when I make a good result like break him or take a set will be like unbelievable.  Then I was on the court and was like, yeah, I can play with him and when I took a set I was, you know, I was very happy and like after first set I say, come on, let's go, keep it, like you can play with him and that's it.

Q.  How did you feel overall about your serving today?

KAROL BECK: Well, I saw I make 21 aces, Pete 17.  So I beat him.  (Laughter) But I don't know, I make like 11 or 12 doublefaults.  Normally I make like three or four.  So when it was like 30-All, or 30-40 and I was feeling like shaking hands, and then I make a doublefault, like there was a game like three doublefaults in the game.  So was like -- - I don't know what happened.  Normally I have a good serve.

Q.  Did you feel like the doublefaults came at some big times during the match?

KAROL BECK: No.  I mean, against Pete, yeah.  It is okay when I have like breakdown, you know, shaking hands, but normally like futures, challengers, I didn't feel like nervous or something. 

Q.  Was the atmosphere a great deal different here than it was in Dallas when you were down there most recently?

KAROL BECK: Here was like, I don't know how much people, but atmosphere was unbelievable.  From the USA, of course, everybody was like:  "Go Pete," between the balls, you know, it was a great atmosphere.  But I wasn't like nervous.  I didn't like  -- I was just concentrate to the court, Pete, that's it.

Q.  What advice would you give Jan for his match with Pete?

KAROL BECK: I think stay in the match.  Waiting for the break like when he missed some shots, doublefaults, and I think Miloslav told him the same like me, stay with him and play with him. 

Q.  You and Jan played a lot of doubles together?

KAROL BECK: Before, you mean?  

Q.  Yeah, before this week?

KAROL BECK: No, first time. 

Q.  Practice-wise do you feel good?  Do you feel pretty good, communication-wise?

KAROL BECK: Yeah, it is okay. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT