AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 14, 2015
Matt Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We would like to welcome Matt Jones to the interview room.   67 today.   7 birdies, 2 bogeys.   You didn't finish like you wanted to, but could you talk about your round today. 
MATT JONES:   Yeah, I think I started on the back nine.   And it was a tough start when you get to 10 for your first holing of the day. 
But I hit a good shot in there to 10 feet and didn't make it.   But let's see, a couple of pars, 13 I hit a good shot to about four feet and got a birdie, just to get the day started which is always good to finally get a birdie to get it going.
Made a great par on 14 after butchering that hole up a little.   And then another one on 15. 
Another one on 16. 
Yeah, it was a battle out there for the start of a round.   I wasn't hitting it as good as I would like, but got to the front nine and made some birdies on 1, 2, 4, 5, 6 and 7, I think. 
Made some really good putts and finished off with a bogey on 8 and 9, but I mean ‑‑ you're going to have them. 
Just hit a bad second shot on ‑‑ into the right bunker and had no chance.
And 9, I had a really great drive but it went into the hazard in the fairway and had no chance really of getting it on the green.   I could have got up‑and‑downed it but I just didn't hit a good enough chip.   But other than, that I'm happy. 
I'm in a good position.   A good position is always good and what you want on the weekend. 

Q.   Where did it wind up on 9?
MATT JONES:   All the way down the hill in that little ‑‑ I chipped it out, it was half‑‑ it was on the hazard line, but up against a ‑‑ yeah, I couldn't do it ‑‑ I hit a sand wedge.

Q.   When you talk about the battle that the back nine was for you, in the back of your head is there any comfort knowing that you can make your hay on the front, those are kind of the scoring holes out here?
MATT JONES:   No, I didn't, I just‑‑ it was just a battle more so of my ball striking that made the course tougher than it had to be for me.   Not being able to hit the drivers I wanted or control the ball flight or trajectory or the distances with my irons.   I just put myself in bad positions off the tee which makes it tougher to get access to these pins. 

Q.   With the forecast looking for another warm day out there tomorrow, what do you think you're going to have to do to get it done?
MATT JONES:   Be one shot better than everyone else.   Who knows what that number will be. 
I'm sure the greens will firm up tomorrow.   They will probably have the pins in some dicier positions since it's just the pros tomorrow.   So they're going to test us a little more. 
But I just know I've got to go out there and have as many birdies as I can and be aggressive. 
Looking at the leaderboard.   There's a lot of great players out there and you're going to need to make birdies to have a chance.

Q.   Curious now, do you play here a lot?
MATT JONES:   I play here every year.   I love playing here. 

Q.   Speaking of 9, have you noticed that at all during the week that given the warm air which is unusual as well, balls rolling and going farther than they normally do here?
MATT JONES:   Today was only the first time I played it.   I played it in the practice round but I hit 4 iron in here.   It was a little different when I teed off on Tuesday.   So it was‑‑

Q.   For your second shot?
MATT JONES:   Yeah, in the practice round.   A little different today.   How far it went there, I couldn't‑‑ I don't know if anyone would hit it through the fairway into the hazard there today.   This week I mean.   You probably have to hit it a little further left tomorrow to stay out that have hazard.

Q.   Did you get drug tested today?
MATT JONES:   No.

Q.   What's your best round here?
MATT JONES:   I wouldn't have a clue.   No idea. 

Q.   Last year I think you had kind of a rough final day, if I recall?
MATT JONES:   Yes I played well here in the past.   I think I had a rough day last year.   I think I have been in the final group here once before, or the second to last group here once before, so I'm comfortable out here.   It's a course that you can be aggressive at if you are playing well enough and be‑‑ you can attack some pins and make some birdies. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Matt and good luck tomorrow. 
MATT JONES:   Thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT