PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 7, 2014
Matt Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How do you feel like you played today?   
MATT JONES:   I feel like I played very well, probably the worst score I could have shot.   It's a good start to the tournament.   First time I've had a good start in a major for a long time, so it was good to get that out of the way.  
   
 Q.   Are you finding the course in good shape for your type of play?  
MATT JONES:   Yeah, the course is great.   It's softer and it's helping out longer hitters, which I'm hitting the driver nicely; I did today.   Hopefully it stays that way.   
   
 Q.   How were the crowds?   
MATT JONES:   Didn't see any really.   The crowd was on the other side, so it was perfect.   
   
 Q.   Just talk about having a good start.   
MATT JONES:   I left plenty of shots out there.   I had a lot of birdie putts, so it's a good start to the tournament.   
Probably look at putting and just tighten things up a little but it's very close.   
   
 Q.   Did you expect you could put this together?   Did you feel this was coming?   
MATT JONES:   Oh, yes, it's just a matter of time.   Just like winning the golf tournament is a matter of time, having Top‑10s, it's always there.   Just a matter of doing it.   I've had a good start, but that means nothing as we all know and can disappear quickly.   
   
 Q.   Talking about the putting, from what I saw, it wasn't like it was bad, you just had a few that just missed or whatever else.   
MATT JONES:   Yeah, just missed.   My speed was off today.   I read the greens very well.   I just hit it too hard or too soft, so my speed was a little off.   Some of them are a little firmer than others and some are a little softer; some are elevated, some are not.   
   
 Q.   Now you have the opportunity to go out early tomorrow and try to build on this.   
MATT JONES:   Yeah, that's the goal.   Go home, have dinner, have a good night's sleep and get back at it tomorrow morning and hopefully get off to a good start and continue on.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT