HONDA CLASSIC
March 21, 2021
Matt Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Was this arguably your best ball striking week of your career?  Because you're No. 1 strokes gained tee to green for the week.
 MATT JONES:   I would say yes.  I said that to Lance walking up 18.  That's the best I've hit it from tee to green for, ever.  And to be able to do it on this golf course is amazing.  I mean, you have to do it out here to have a chance and I did it.
 Q. Where did it turn for you today?  Those birdies at 11 and 12 were pretty special.
 MATT JONES:   I did.  I played great.  Daniel Berger said it great when he said winning a golf tournament's like having a heart attack every hole.  And to do that on this golf course, I think that heart attack was out there from my very first tee shot, but I just managed it.  I was pretty calm all day and I would say I just played well.  It didn't turn anywhere, I just managed the golf course.
 Q. You turned 41 in April.  Your first win in seven years.  Can you put that in perspective?  Because that's a pretty long run.
 MATT JONES:   It is.  And it's not easy to win out here.  I've had a couple of chances, but they're few and far between unless you're the top guys, which they're there regularly.  But for me to close it out today on this golf course is amazing and it's something that I can always look back on.
 Q. Now you get to go to some special tournaments like the Masters.
 MATT JONES:   I do.  It's going to be nice.  I can go prep for the Masters this time.  Last time it was an absolute blur.  I can't remember a thing about it, so I'm going to do some prep this time before.
 Q. First the Tournament Of Champions, PGA Championship, a lot of good stuff.  What car are you going to pick?  You get to pick your choice of any Honda, and you got a big family, are you going to go for the SUV?
 MATT JONES:   I had no idea I get to do that.  I have no idea of their whole range, so I'll have a look and go from there.
 Q. Seven years since you were in the winner's circle on the PGA TOUR.  What was different for you this week?
 MATT JONES:   I would just say my ball striking.  To be honest, I struck it amazing.  I have a funny text that I sent someone, because I was hitting it pretty good on Tuesday, Wednesday, and I said, if someone beats me this week they have cheated, which I was pretty confident going into the week, which is not normal for me.  So I was hitting it great on Tuesday, Wednesday, and something clicked, just clicked for me.
 Q. You had a 3-shot lead to start the day, got a little bit tighter on the front nine.  You looked so calm.  Did you have a sense of how you stood on the leaderboard throughout the day?
 MATT JONES:   I saw when I was walking to 5 that Aaron was 3-under through 5.  And then I saw it, I knew, maybe I was -- I saw it on 10, and then I saw it on 16.  So just, I mean, when you're out there playing you know what you've got when you make the turn and you know what you have to do and I was able to do that.
 Q. You said yesterday that no lead is safe on this golf course.  But you kept your composure out there.  Was it a case of having so much belief in your ball striking this week?
 MATT JONES:   Yes.  I mean it was.  I was very comfortable controlling the ball flight and trajectory all week.  So it was great.  And it's something that I hope I can continue on with.
 Q. Moving forward, what does this win do for you and your game?
 MATT JONES:   Just belief that I can do it.  I mean it's been seven years, it's been a tough seven years, I've had ups and I've had downs, as all golfers have, but, I mean, it gets me into a lot of big tournaments now and as I said earlier, I can go prep for Augusta, which is nice.  Last time I had a four days to prepare and it was a bit tough, so I'm looking forward to it.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT