THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2014
Matt Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Thoughts about your round today.   
MATT JONES:   I played decent.   I made some putts, which was nice.   I got off to a shaky start, but made a 10‑footer for par on first hole, which was nice to get going.   
I made a good birdie on 2 and 3.   
4, A par‑4 is always a good score.   It's a very awkward hole for me.   So I'm always happy to get out of there with a par.   
But, overall, I'm happy.   Get a good round tomorrow and we'll see what happens.   
   
 Q.   What are you going to have to shoot tomorrow?  
MATT JONES:   If I can shoot 5‑ or 6‑under I'll be happy.   That's my goal tomorrow.   Then it's out of my hands.   If I shoot that, if that's as good as I can do, that would be great.   If they play better, they play better and that's all I can do.  
   
 Q.   Would you prefer a lot of wind or a little more benign?  
MATT JONES:   I normally play well in good conditions or tougher conditions, so I would prefer a little breeze.   
   
 Q.   Talk about number 8 for a second.   I don't know what you shot, but what makes that hole‑‑ it's a 244‑yard hole.   What did you hit into it?  
MATT JONES:   I tried to hit a cut 3‑iron into the wind, because the wind's into off the right.   It's just a tough hole.   Even if you hit it on the green it's a tough 2‑putt, because of the way the slope and grain are.   It's just a very tough hole.   
   
 Q.   Is it one you don't really like to see coming up?  
MATT JONES:   No, because I know everyone's got to play it.   I know it's going to be tough for everyone.   It's just one of those tough holes, like 17 last week at Charlotte.   
   
 Q.   Run me through like how much the win recently has helped you in a situation you find yourself in now, like I'm assuming more comfortable now?  
MATT JONES:   I would think so.   We'll see what happens tomorrow.   I haven't played much golf since I won.   I missed the cut in the last two events at The Masters and Charlotte.   But hopefully I'm good to go.   
I had Gary over here for two weeks working hard.   I don't think I worked that hard for that extended period of time on my game.   So it's good to see some results from that.  
   
 Q.   It should be nice sort of being there tomorrow in those last few groups and just having those positive thoughts from only a month ago?  
MATT JONES:   Exactly.   It's going to be good.   It's still hard to believe that I won.   I haven't had time to let it sink in.   I went straight to Charlotte, and two weeks off with the family and kids, it's not a lot of rest.   
   
 Q.   There's plenty obviously at stake in this tournament, riches, etcetera, etcetera, but one of the big things for you coming up, too, is that qualifications for the British Open, just to knock that last one away.   Try to keep that out of your mind or do you look at that and say, let's go after it tomorrow?  
MATT JONES:   No, I just know if I play well, my World Ranking is going to get me into the British Open, so it doesn't matter.   It's how I play golf and if I don't play well enough and don't qualify, that's my fault.   I'm the only one that can do it, so if I do what I know I can do I'll be fine.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT