JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 9, 2010
Matt Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 9 Minus the last two holes, seems like you had a very good day out there today. 
 MATT JONES: I hit it good for 16 holes and hit a bad tee shot on my 17th hole, No. 8, and was happy to make bogey. And then the last hole I just wasn't thinking, made a bad, stupid tee shot.

 Q. Concerning the 59 and the 60 yesterday, you've got to feel pretty decent being four down going into the weekend. 
 MATT JONES: I think I'm five down, but yeah, if I play well on the weekend and shoot 10-, 11-, 12-under on the last two days, I'll have a good tournament. It's going to be tough to -- there's quite a lot of golf left, five-shot lead on this course and those guys are obviously playing well, so we're going to need some type of a slip-up from those two.

 Q. Is this going to be a case of you're going to have to go get them, or is this going to be a case of you hope they're coming back to you?
 MATT JONES: They're definitely not coming back. No, we're going to have to go and get them. Those last two bogeys kind of hurt because I was in good position, three back, now I'm like five back and four back. With Stricker leading, one of the best players in the world, you're going to have to go out and get him. He's definitely not coming back on this golf course.

 Q. What's working for you the past two days?
 MATT JONES: I actually switched drivers. I switched shafts this week, switched to the new Titleist driver that just came out. That's working. I'm hitting the fairways more consistently now. I didn't do it on the last two holes, but I'm putting well.

 Q. How is the course playing?
 MATT JONES: It's good. It's firming up. I think come Sunday you're going to see a completely different course than you have the first two days, and I'm looking forward to that.

 Q. Seemed like the greens were biting. 
 MATT JONES: Yeah the greens were very receptive to golf shots, even out of the rough. I think if you come on the weekend, the ball is going to start to bounce out a little bit more, especially Sunday, Sunday afternoon.

 Q. How aggressive will you be?
 MATT JONES: I will just be the exact same I have been the last two days. I'm not going to change anything because I'm playing well, I'm making the birdies, so it's going to be fine. 

 Q. Considering you've got to be aggressive, is it any consolation knowing that the course is to be had, that good scores are out there?
 MATT JONES: Yeah. You can attack these pins. It doesn't matter where they put them, you're going to be able to get after them if you hit the fairways and in some cases if you hit the rough. That may change in the next two days, especially on Sunday. I think with the conditions forecast, it's going to firm up a lot more. The fairways aren't going to be holding as much, so you're going to see a lot more 3-woods and hybrids off tees, I think, the distance the ball will be going. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT