THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 2, 2008
Matt Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  How do you feel? 
 MATT JONES:  Good and bad.  It was disappointing the way I finished on 17, but overall it's a good start to the year.  Got off to a good start, did pretty much what I wanted to. 

 Q.  The $209,000 in the bank account must make you feel a little bit better, but take me through 17. 
 MATT JONES:  I was in-between clubs, 3-iron and 4-iron.  It was pretty windy and I took a 4 and just got a gust of wind, hung it up in the air and went in the water. 

 Q.  Other than that, your driver was just a little bit off on the front nine, and you were hitting iron shots on the greens, that shot on 8, I told everybody, if you hit it on the green, I was leaving; I'm still here, but man what a shot. 
 MATT JONES:  That was a good shot.  But when you're as wild as I am like that with the driver, you get used to hitting shots like that.  The not one of my best clubs in the bag, especially today in the wind, any miss-hit is tripled. 

 Q.  How does it feel going into the rest of the year with such a good finish at this difficult golf course? 
 MATT JONES:  It's good.  I can only build from this experience.  I've never been in this contention in my career on the PGA TOUR, so I can only take positives out of it. 
 Next time it will be a different story. 

 Q.  Any chances to make birdies coming in? 
 MATT JONES:  I don't think there's any.  The last real good birdie chance was about 13, the short par 4.  The pin on 14 is tough, that's really tough.  15 is just a brutal par 3, 16 is a brutal par 4, and 17, I don't have to say anything about that hole. 

 Q.  What does it say about your mind-set when it's a course that you cannot antibiotic birdies and you're avoiding bogeys? 
 MATT JONES:  Exactly.  You're just trying to make par out there or if you hit a shot that's close or within 20 feet you hope to make that putt.  But overall, it's just a grind those last few holes. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT