HONDA CLASSIC
March 18, 2021
Matt Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. On your outward nine, three straight birdies to end it.  That was pretty spectacular.
 MATT JONES:   It was.  It was a very good day.  I struck the ball well actually all day, and it was probably one of the better ball-striking days with my irons that I've had for a long, long time.  Made a few putts, and to make a putt from off the green on 17 was good.
 Q. Your proximity was great today.  In these windy conditions, that is really golfing the ball.
 MATT JONES:   It is.  I started off really good.  I hit it close the first five holes.  6 is always a tough hole and then I hit a really good shot on 7.  It was a very good ball-striking day for me with my irons, especially with being able to control trajectory and shot shape was good.
 Q. In these conditions people tend to slow down because they're looking at it more cautiously.  It didn't slow you down at all today, this wind?
 MATT JONES:   No, it's actually a benefit sometimes because if you can feel the wind at a certain time that I feel like is going to help my shot, I'll go a little quicker sometimes.  Like on 18, I had a perfect wind so I went quicker off the tee to get that downwind to get that to be able to carry that bunker.  But there's very few times I would slow down.
 Q. There appears to be no good draw; it's windy in the morning, windy in the afternoon, just a tough day for everybody?
 MATT JONES:   It is.  The wind came up I think on our fifth hole maybe, nothing like it is now, but it's a weird golf course playing in no wind out there, too, because you're so used to playing it with wind, so it was good.
 Q. You shot a 9-under 61 today, tying the course record.  How did you get it done today?
 MATT JONES:   I hit it really nicely.  You have to be able to control the ball.  It was windy out there, and I turned with a good score, and then you know what you've got ahead of you here, and I was just lucky to make a few more birdies.
 Q. As you stood up on the tee box on 15, you've already shot 6-under, it's a place where most players are going to slow down and be a little cautious.  You end up shooting 2-under on the Bear Trap.  What's going through your mind on 15?
 MATT JONES:   It's not a terrible wind for me.  You've just got to trust that it's going to do what you think it's going to do.  I had started it on the right, I hit a really good shot, probably 15 or 20 foot, then 16 to an inch or two inches and 17 -- if you watch the coverage this afternoon 17 is not going to be a fun hole at all.  If anyone hits that green, they're going to be doing well.  I got lucky to hole it from off the green from 30 feet.  It was a good day.  I struck it really nicely.
 Q. How do you keep this momentum going into tomorrow?
 MATT JONES:   I'm done for the day.  I'm going to go rest, go FaceTime my kids, and wish me luck.
 Q. Your history here is not that special you'd have to agree, but today was an incredible day, probably your best performance at this course.  Sum that up for you.
 MATT JONES:   Yeah, actually my rookie year I think I finished fourth here.  I think I was tied for the lead for a long time, and I thought about that while I was out there playing.  Someone sent me a screenshot of that leaderboard yesterday, so it was good to see that.  It's just a difficult golf course.  If you're off a little bit you can't get away with it around here.  It was good to make birdies and get away with it.   It was good to make birdies and get away with it. Q. When did you know something special was going on?
 MATT JONES:   I don't know if you ever know it's special.  I was just managing the golf course and hitting good shots.  I could control my ball, the trajectory and the shape of it, and if I can do that, I'll be quite pleased with that.
 Q. How many course records do you have now?
 MATT JONES:   I've never kept track, and I wouldn't know.  It's like asking me if I have a hole-in-one.  I couldn't tell you how many I've had.  I've never kept track.
 Q. What do you remember most about 2008?  And during the weekend Johnny Miller had huge praise about you and your swing.  I wondered if that put any pressure on you.
 MATT JONES:   No, not at all.  I do remember it quite fondly a few holes.  Of course the Bear Trap.  I hit a great shot out of the bunker on 16 from the fairway bunker and of course I went in the water on the next and made double.   It's something that I do look back on when I play this golf course because it's a very tough golf course and it somewhat plays the same every time you're here with all the wind.  I'm happy it blew, and I do normally like golf courses when we play in the wind.
 Q. When you made the four in a row, it was breezy, it wasn't blowing quite yet.  Did you think that was the time to start to get something --
 MATT JONES:   I actually didn't know I made four in a row until I saw it on the scoreboard on 18.  I didn't even think about it.  You can't think about that on this golf course because every hole can bite you out here very quickly, and especially when you birdie 5 and then you've got to go play No. 6.  There was no thinking about what I had just done.
 I mean, I play golf for a living.  I mean, I should be able to shoot a good score occasionally.  That doesn't happen as much as I want, but yes, I'm very happy with it.  I was very calm and I was relaxed out there, which normally I'm a bit more amped up and hyped up, and I had a different goal this week to be a little more calm, walk slower, and that's what I tried to do today.
 It's fantastic to have fans back. I think as golfers we all like to play in front of fans and be able to perform.  It gives us probably a little more adrenaline, more focus when you know they're out watching you hit good shots.  To have them back is fantastic, and hopefully it just continues to grow and we continue to get more fans back every week.
 Q. In 14 years, 61 is the lowest round you've ever recorded in your PGA TOUR career.  What clicked for you today?
 MATT JONES:   Probably just my ball-striking.  My proximity to the hole was very good.  Normally that's my weakness, but today it was my strength.  I hit a lot of good shots and I made the putts when I hit it close.
 Q. What is it about the breeze that brings out the best in you?
 MATT JONES:   It probably takes expectations down.  You just manage the golf course and play the golf course, what's given to you, instead of being aggressive.  I'm naturally an aggressive player.  When the wind comes out I think my course management comes in, and yes, growing up in Australia playing in the wind can help, too.
 Q. (On why he feels comfortable on this golf course).
 MATT JONES:   I don't know why I always feel comfortable on this golf course.  There's so many uncomfortable golf holes out there.  But it is a course I do like playing, and if I'm hitting it the way I am today the rest of the week, it'll be a good week.
 Q. Tell us about how the Bear Trap is playing today.
 MATT JONES:   15 is not -- easy is not the right word.  It's manageable today.  17 is going to be brutal because you can't feel how strong that wind is.  Even if you hit it slightly left the wind has it all day, because the wind is hurting in off the right, and you just can't feel it, and the ball just gets moved so much.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT