KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 29, 2007
Shi-Hyun Ahn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Thank you for joining us, Shi Hyun Ahn.  You shot a 4-under par.  Have you ever been in a position to be leading a Major?  This is Vicki Lee, her manager, and she will act as the translator.   
 SHI HYUN AHN:  I feel that versus other tournaments, that I played well in this Major and that I really tried hard and have come through today.   
  
  Q.  I wanted to ask you about the experience last year at the McDonald's.  You were one of those that had a chance in the final few holes.  How much experience did you get from that?   
 SHI HYUN AHN:  Last year at the McDonald's, my goal was to come through all the way, and I didn't.  I don't want to make the same mistake this year, so I've been practicing and practicing to make sure that doesn't happen again this year.   
  
  Q.  What did you take away from last year?   
 SHI HYUN AHN:  Everything doesn't turn out the way you thought it would, so I changed my mental game, is one of the biggest things I've changed, and learned from that tournament.   
  
  Q.  The scoring seems very high today, and yet you got to 4-under quickly today.  Do you feel this is one of the best rounds you've played out here on this course?  And what do you think about this course?   
 SHI HYUN AHN:  I do love playing this course, and I love the Kraft Nabisco Major.  And although I was nervous today because of the way the course is laid out, I overcame that nervousness and really put my right foot forward and really just played through as best as I could.   
  
  Q.  Why were you nervous?   
 SHI HYUN AHN:  I was nervous because this is obviously a Major for me, and one of my goals is that I want to win a Major.  I feel this is the year, so I'm doing my best to do that.   
 Part of the other nervousness is I don't know about any other players, but for me the first tee is the worst, because I want to start off good.   
  
  Q.  I know you play at CrossCreek Golf Course, and I was wondering how you ended up playing there and how often you're out there?   
 SHI HYUN AHN:  Well, when I first came here, I was staying in Temecula, and that golf course is a course that I practiced at, and for me it's challenging, and I love that challenge.  I practice there five to six days a week from when the sun comes up in the morning to when the sun sets in the evening.   
  
  Q.  I think you said between last year and now you changed your mental game.  Can you tell us how you changed your mental game?   
 SHI HYUN AHN:  The biggest mental part of it for me that's different from last year is that I have fun.  I do put pressure on myself, but it's not to the point where I'm coming down hard on myself for not making a fairway or a putt; whereas, now I'm thankful for each time I hit the fairway or get on the green, and I'm taking it light-heard and having fun with it, so that's changed my game a lot.   
  
  Q.  I'm curious how you wound up in Irvine and Temecula instead of Los Angeles or somewhere else, Orlando?   
 SHI HYUN AHN:  For me, Irvine is definitely a safer place, a newer place.  There are a lot of golf courses around and it's accessible, whereas in L.A., anybody from L.A. knows how bad the traffic is, how hard it is to get out on a golf course, so I wanted to go to a quieter place so I could focus on my golf.   
  
  Q.  How did you end up in Temecula?   
 SHI HYUN AHN:  I went to Temecula originally because I had a friend that lives in Temecula and practiced there, so for me, as I am a foreigner from Korea, I went there with someone I knew, and I met my coach there, and that's why I stayed there for a couple years.   
  
  Q.  Who is your coach?   
 SHI HYUN AHN:  My coach right now is Sang Kyum.   
  
  Q.  How much of your time is spent in Southern California as opposed to going back to Korea?   
 SHI HYUN AHN:  While the season is in play, I go three times for about a week's duration, and then during off-season, I go there for about a month.   
  
  Q.  From California?   
 SHI HYUN AHN:  Yes.  I go to Korea three times during the season at about one week at a time.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Thank you, Shi Hyun Ahn.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT