MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 13, 2004
Shi-Hyun Ahn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Thanks for joining us, Shi Hyun I would like to introduce, and this is Kyumin Shim, he'll be helping translate for Shi Hyun.

You had a long day today, 36 holes, but you had a great final round, and the final round was five birdies, bogey free.  Can you talk about the day a little bit.  Just an opening comment about the day.
SHI HYUN AHN: It was her first 36 holes.  She never played 36 holes before, so she was kind of worried that, you know, it's going to be hard and boring and tiring, but as she was playing, she felt good and her shots were good, so she had a good time and she enjoyed the game.
Q.  Did she ever feel she had a chance to catch Sorenstam?
SHI HYUN AHN: She thought about it all the way through the whole round saying that, you know, I'm going to catch up with Annika.  That was her main determination.
Q.  Let's go ahead and do the scorecard then.

(Scorecard read.)
Q.  Any other questions?

What was it like for her playing these last two rounds with so much pressure being 19 years old, was she nervous at all.
SHI HYUN AHN: She basically told me that she's one of the youngest players, and she shouldn't be tired because they are all older players than her, so she thinks she shouldn't be tired.
Q.  Can you tell us a little bit about yourself, when you started playing golf, what are you doing this year?  Are you living here by yourself, are your parents with you?
SHI HYUN AHN: She started at 13.  She is traveling the tour with her parents, which they are right there, mom and dad, tournament to tournament.
Q.  How did she get so good and when did she start to get good?
SHI HYUN AHN: 17, started 17 she started playing better.
Q.  Maybe you can explain a little bit about she was on the tour before the KLPGA and how she worked up to the KLPGA.
SHI HYUN AHN: She was in, like, secondary tour in Korea in 2001.  She was a top money     2002, and she made top money list, number one player in 2002, so she made it to KLPGA in 2003.  During that tournament, she got exemption status in LPGA and so she joined LPGA in 2004.
Q.  What has the experience been like for her on the LPGA living in a foreign country?  Has that been difficult for her?
SHI HYUN AHN: The language is the hardest part, that she can't speak.  Other than that, there is not much different.  Speaking is the hardest part that she's having a problem.
Q.  Does she like America, the food?
SHI HYUN AHN: Yes, she likes everything.  She got fat after she came here.
Q.  What was it like seeing her name right at the top in a major championship, and her thoughts about going up against Annika down the stretch?
SHI HYUN AHN: She thought that I need to get more birdies.  That's all she was thinking about.
Q.  What about being up there with Annika?
SHI HYUN AHN: Yeah, she was just     kept thinking about getting more birdies, like, you know, that's it, I guess.
Q.  Anything else?  All right.  Thank you.  Congratulations?
SHI HYUN AHN: Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT