NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 1, 2017
Seth Reeves
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. One off the course record.
SETH REEVES: Oh, man.  You tell me now?
Q. Wasn't going to go up to you on 18 and be like, hey!
SETH REEVES: No.  I was just trying to make as many as I could.  I knew Keith was -- for a while I knew he was at 9 and then he was at 10.  So I was just like trying to go catch him really.  I mean it was tough, but I mean for some reason I like playing in the wind.  I mean the Bridgestone ball is really good in the wind.  All my best rounds this year have been in the wind, I feel like.  So you kind of wake up and you see the wind and you think it's going to be a tough day, but when I get out there, I feel really comfortable in it.  And just got off to a good start.  Hit some good shot, some things went my way, and I've been putting really well, for I mean months honestly.  And the ball striking has come together and that's where the score comes from.
Q. Being the second lowest round today was 4-under, how do you feel like the course played today compared to yesterday and are you surprised that no one else did better than 4-under?
SETH REEVES: I mean I think it was playing pretty tough, honestly.  I just played really well.  And I just was in control of my golf ball pretty much most of the day, and when I was out of position, I took my medicine and I just cleaned up around the hole really well.  So I didn't really have any big par saves or anything, just a lot of good five, six footers for par that I made and just kept the round going.
Q. Anything in particular earlier this week or in this tournament that you worked on that kind of fine tuned that you can pinpoint?
SETH REEVES: I mean really just -- it's so easy for me to be a perfectionist and to get mechanical.  And so honestly I'm trying to weed out all of these mechanical thoughts.  And with this course, I mean I like to hit my driver, I mean I'm probably one of the longer hitters out here, so this course allows me to hit driver a lot.  And I feel comfortable doing that.  So golf's fun for me when I can hit driver and hit it as hard as I can.  So I've taken more of an aggressive approach out here and it's working out.
Q. The mechanical thoughts, is that something that comes in like stuff on the range that you don't want to think about, just be driving and let it go?
SETH REEVES: Yeah.  I mean golf's just hard where you're not going to hit it great all the time.  So then you try and strive for perfection and you try and fix things, and you can always find something, hey, fix this, try that.  Maybe conversations with your swing coach even.  And you kind of without even knowing it, you kind of go down that road, and then before you realize it, you've got five swing thoughts and it's not even helping.  So for me, I like playing golf as athletic as possible, and so really the best way to do that is get the thoughts out.  It's more fun when I can just tee it up high and not think about it and just go bust driver as much as I can.
Q. The 18th hole here is one of the more like unique tee shots we've seen this year.  You have those trees and you have to take a line over the trees.  What's like your approach?  What's your game plan for that tee shot?
SETH REEVES: Really, I have to force myself to go farther left than I even feel comfortable.  I mean today the wind was helping, and so I almost felt like I had to hit it over Ohio State's winter indoor facility.  I mean it's that far left.  But you see some out-of-bound stakes over there and you're like, oh, I don't know if I can do that.  But really, it's a pretty interesting tee shot where they have us.  In college I played here my senior year and we played the other tee.  So it's a completely different hole from over there.  But it's fine.  Just all forced carryover the trees.  So it's fun.
Q. 15, I was complimenting you on your shot.  Talk me through that.  That's one that you'll never probably forget.
SETH REEVES: Yeah.  I mean things definitely have to go your way in a round like that with how hard it's playing.  That's the one I'll look back on and say, man, I got away with at least one there, maybe two.  I was trying to play smart and hit like a bunt, kind of cut driver, and my tendency is to get a little under it and I kind of flipped one over the right, got in the rough, got a good break.  And then my ball is almost in a hole in the rough, and I kind of blade it out and instead of flying on the green, it's landing like 40 short and just running.  It misses the bunker and rolls up there to three feet, and it's like I couldn't stop smiling.  I mean it was like I will gladly admit that was very lucky.  I mean it is what it is.  I can't change how it happened.  So it could have easily been a bogey, but it kept the momentum, and somehow I got one there and was able to close it off.
Q. Can you talk about what the emotion was like on 18 when you finish off a day like today and you sink that final putt, what that felt like?
SETH REEVES: It felt good.  It's kind of weird because I'm not afraid to look at the boards, and I knew kind of where I stood.  And I feel comfortable at the top.  I mean, obviously, you feel like if you want to get to the TOUR you need to feel comfortable at the top of the leaderboards out here.  So I felt fine.  But I just wanted to close off that round.  But I was at peace.  I mean I had to make like a six-foot par putt on 18.  If it didn't drop, I was going to be fine.  But you don't even really think about those things.  Me and my caddy, it was constantly just a lot of chatter about either the reads or the wind, and that almost takes your mind off of what's at stake or something, or you know, I haven't made a bogey today or I'm 7-under or something.  So you're just kind of in the zone and it feels pretty good, and before you know it, you make it and there's no holes left.  So that's a good feeling.
Q. What's it going to be like having a Bulldog-Yellow Jacket pairing tomorrow?
SETH REEVES: It'll be fun.  Keith's a great guy and he's been playing really well.  I'm just glad to put myself in that position.  But sheesh, I haven't played against him since forever really, probably high school.  So we'll be comfortable with each other and it'll be fun.  We'll make the most of it.
Q. Two of the longer hitters out here, too; right?
SETH REEVES: Yeah.  No, that's fun.  We played together I think Kansas City or something and we're both hitting it kind of next to each other.  We have similar games, and so that's kind of fun to play with somebody like that.
Q. You guys ever been in a tournament together like battling down the stretch, in junior amateurs?
SETH REEVES: I don't think so, but -- I don't think it's been him and me for the win or anything like that, but we've played enough with each other.  I mean we've probably played a few rounds in college where our teams were battling out for the top spot or something, because we both were on great college teams.  And so in that sense, maybe, but -- this will probably be the first.  But he's a pretty easy-going guy, and I mean I would think I am, too.  I'm probably a little more quiet than he had.  But we'll just make the most of it.  So it'll be fun.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT