NASCAR MEDIA CONFERENCE
January 9, 2015
Jamie McMurray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


  JAMIE McMURRAY: In a 24‑hour event, what's the durability going to be like, and once the headers are fixed, what's the next weak link in the system, and they've had a year of working that out, and I know in talking with the engineers, they feel really good about the package.   They've worked the car out a little bit better, so feel much better about it this year than what we did last season.   
   
 Q.   And then had not too many changes but a couple changes to the teams this year as far as those.   Do you think that's going to affect you guys' performance at all with Joey coming on?   
JAMIE McMURRAY:   No, I think that's a positive.   Joey did‑‑ I remember I was on the 02 the first year that Joey drove on the 01, and he did such a great job, and I remember Chip being really impressed and proud of the way Joey did.   I think they're super excited to have him back on and being full‑time with that team.   As far as on our side, it's kind of the same group of drivers, it just gets shuffled around, so I'm excited to be back on this team, though.   I really have enjoyed my friendship with Scott Dixon.   It's nice to be with Kyle, who I'm on the NASCAR side with, and then Tony Kanaan is just a lot of fun to be around.   So we have a really good group of guys.   It's fun racing the car, sharing the car with them, but it's also fun, all the hanging out, like going to dinners, eating lunch together, and just kind of catching up on what's going on in everyone's life.   
   
 Q.   And then I know a lot of the drivers who come from other series have sometimes talked about the Rolex as being the warm‑up for their seasons coming in.   Do you consider the Rolex sort of a warm‑up for the Cup season, or would you say there's too many differences to compare it too much?  
JAMIE McMURRAY:   A lot of differences for us.   It's nice to be back in a car driving.   We race so often that the month and a half that we've had off, it seems like you haven't been in a car in forever, so I'm excited just to get back in a car, get behind the wheel, and just get to race.  
   
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT