NASCAR SPRINT CUP SERIES: FEDERATED AUTO PARTS 400
September 10, 2016
Jamie McMurray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Making your second Chase appearance. You look at the grid, and it looks like you're 43 points to the good, but it had to be tense there at the end with the 5 coming and potentially moving that Chase line down. What were your thoughts there in the closing laps?  
JAMIE McMURRAY: Well, our Sherwin‑Williams Emerald Chevy was really good all night long, but especially once the 31 got in trouble I was racing so different than what you normally would, not taking any risk. And then when I saw the 5 car had tires and some of those guys didn't it got a little crazy, but really good day. Both of our cars ran really good again today. Our cars have been so great. The guys at our shop need to be really proud of what they've been able to build the last couple weeks, because it's a lot of fun to drive and to run that quick. I looked up at one point and I think there were four Gibbs cars and Kyle and I at one point. So we still have a little bit of work to do. We've made huge gains, and I'm really proud of all those guys.  
   
 Q. What are your expectations heading into the Chase in terms of what you can accomplish and how far you can go?  
JAMIE McMURRAY: Well, I feel better about our chances this year versus last year. I felt like last year headed into the Chase we didn't really have anything in our pocket as far as a little bit better cars. When I talked to you earlier today, I told you I did a Chicago test, different chassis, some different stuff on our car, and we though that was not a huge improvement, but a bigger improvement than where we've been and I feel like right now we have cars that are capable of winning, so I look forward to getting there. It's been a good track for both Kyle and I and it would be a great way to start off our Chase. It's the home of McDonald's, so that's a great track.   
   
 Q. I spoke with your team owner Chip Ganassi before the race. I asked him what it would mean to have two cars in the Chase. He said it would be the biggest thing ever. What's it mean to be able to deliver on that?   
JAMIE McMURRAY: Well, when you look at Chip's organization, he's been so successful in IndyCars, the sports cars. We've won some big races in NASCAR, but the NASCAR side is really hard to keep on top, and it's that way for everybody. When you get down, it's really hard to climb your way back up. We made some changes earlier in the year as far as personnel. He moved some people around. The crew chiefs, everybody is working really well together, and they've been able to build some great cars, and he's proud of that because when you make those changes, there's no guarantee that it's going to show up on the racetrack, but it has.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT