CAREERBUILDER CHALLENGE
January 18, 2018
Talor Gooch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Recap your round for me today.  7-under 65.
TALOR GOOCH: Yeah, it was a little bit, I don't want to say slow start, but I finished in a fury.  I made a bunker shot on 15 for eagle and then birdied 16 and 17.  So I capped the round off really well.
Q. Kind of made your round there?
TALOR GOOCH: Yeah, it was pretty steady and then all of a sudden it kind of burst at the last few holes.
Q. Talk to me about that bunker shot for the eagle.  What you were seeing, what kind of lie and whatnot, distance you had.
TALOR GOOCH: Right when it went in my caddie looked at me and said, I didn't say anything, but I knew you were going to make that one.  It was just a perfect lie, it was just as straightforward of a bunker shot as you can imagine and thankfully it went in.
Q. Talk about your expectations coming into this rookie season on TOUR.  What do you hope to accomplish and what you're looking to accomplish early on in the season?
TALOR GOOCH: As cliche as it sounds I'm taking it one round at a time.  I'm not Justin Thomas, I don't have all these goals set for the year, I just want to make sure every day I wake up I'm better then than I was the day before.  I know if I continue to do that, at the end of the season there will be some good things that happen.
Q. Going into this first TOUR season have you done anything different in the off season in terms of your routine or your preparation, getting ready for the season than you might not have done before?
TALOR GOOCH: We had a, I don't know if you could call it an off season, I had about two and a half weeks off.  But, no, the week before Hawaii I went out to Scottsdale for the week to get out of the Oklahoma cold and so getting down there a few days and getting some good weather and my coach came in and a couple of my good buddies came in and we just played a lot of golf and it was some good prep for the start of the season.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT