ROLAND GARROS
May 29, 2018
Alison Van Uytvanck
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. VAN UYTVANCK/I. Wallace
6-1, 6-0
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French, please.
Q. That was a slow start, as we could say.
ALISON VAN UYTVANCK: Yes, indeed.
It's indeed very nice to play at the right level from the beginning to the end, to play well, to feel so well on the court, and I'm very happy indeed.
It was a soft start, not a slow start.
Q. Did you know her before or how did you prepare for this match?
ALISON VAN UYTVANCK: My coach had seen a few videos of her.  And most of all we thought about myself, and we put the emphasis on myself so that I could play my own game, my own style, and to start to play right from the start.
And I let her play.  I knew that she was more nervous than I was.  It's normal.  I have a bit more experience than her, and that helped me at the beginning of the match.
Q. If you were to compare your current shape to your famous quarterfinal journey, do you feel as fine as during that period or even better?
ALISON VAN UYTVANCK: Even better, but that doesn't mean anything actually.  The next round will be difficult.  It's Goerges or Cibulkova.  Both play very well.
You should never forget the quarterfinals, of course, but you shouldn't think about it.  It was three years ago.  And so it's another year now, and I really have to focus on this particular year and to do the best I can, and we'll see.
Q. Although it was a match, couldn't we say it was like a training session today or is that exaggerated?
ALISON VAN UYTVANCK: It's a bit of an exaggeration.  Because although it was only 50 minutes, it was not like a practice session.  It's so different.  You do have some stress.  You are more focused.  You want to play each point to the max, 100%.  So it's different.
But, of course it's nice to have an easy win and to have a lot of -- (speaking in Flemish.)
Q. You were saying that it was a great success for Belgian players.  There were a lot of supporters.  How does it feel to be supported by so many fans?
ALISON VAN UYTVANCK: It's fantastic.  It's close to home, only three hours' drive by car.  It's like playing at home.  And it's like the atmosphere in a Fed Cup or a Davis Cup.
So it's fantastic to be playing here, and you can feel that you have a lot of supporters.  For all the fans, it's difficult if there are two or three Belgian players playing at the same time.  That is fantastic.
I hope that on Thursday I will have as many supporters as today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT