ROLAND GARROS
May 30, 2015
Alison Van Uytvanck
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  A. VAN UYTVANCK/K. Mladenovic6-4, 6-1THE MODERATOR: Questions in French, please.Q. You were previously in control in terms of your emotions and as far as your opponent was cornered.  Tell us about the game.ALISON VAN UYTVANCK: I think it was difficult for both of us.  I think we were both nervous.  Eventually I think I managed things quite well, and maybe she did not. I think 5-4 and then 6-4, my returns were good at that point.  I felt better in the second set.  I wasn't too stressed.  I served well, and I'm quite happy.Q. Does it feel like a dream?  Are you surprised or is this just normal?  Is it just making sense?ALISON VAN UYTVANCK: It is a dream.  I think I can probably do better.  I'm playing well; I know I can play better.  I will need to win more matches, and that's my intention.Q. Tell us a little bit about the atmosphere on the Lenglen Court.  First time there.  How was it?ALISON VAN UYTVANCK: It was fabulous.  At the beginning a lot of people were cheering, Go, KiKi.  There were a lot of people also with my team.  They were saying, Go, go.  You can do it.  Cheering me on.  It was fun to have the crowd.Q. I got the feeling you were less stressed, less impressed than she was.  Is that your experience, that she was more nervous?ALISON VAN UYTVANCK: I think she was maybe a little more nervous, but that's normal.  She's a French player playing Lenglen Court.  She has the French crowd.  So I think it's only normal for her to be more nervous.Q. Tell us a little bit about your plan.  It seemed that you perfectly executed.  I guess what was the plan?ALISON VAN UYTVANCK: I think my forehand was not as good as my backhand.  I simply tried to play the game.  It was difficult at the beginning, but then I was able to play a few drops. I was able to serve well right when I needed to.  I think this really made the difference at the end of the day.Q. The next opponent will be a real opportunity.  You could be seen as the favorite for the next match.ALISON VAN UYTVANCK: Maybe I am the favorite.  Fourth round, she's in the fourth round.  I think she is very confident.  She's a solid player.  She is a big hitter.  We have nothing to lose.Q. You've played her several times, haven't you?ALISON VAN UYTVANCK: I have.  I have played her several times on the tour.  She's a solid hitter but she doesn't really like to run much, so I'm going to try to force her into running.THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.Q. Congratulations.  Can you describe your feeling now?ALISON VAN UYTVANCK: I'm really happy.  It's really nice feeling to win first time on Suzanne Lenglen.  Really nice.  Lots of people so it was a bit stressing in the beginning, but pretty happy with the win. Let's go on in the fourth round.Q. How did you deal with this situation?  I mean, you played against French player.  Of course fans are behind your opponent.  How did you manage?ALISON VAN UYTVANCK: (In French.)  I'm scared.  There is a spider on the mic.Q. Do you remember my question?ALISON VAN UYTVANCK: No.  (Laughter.)  I'm sorry.Q. It's fine.  How did you deal with that situation?  I mean, you played against French player, fan favorite.  Did you get nervous or...ALISON VAN UYTVANCK: Yeah, I was pretty nervous before the match.  It was actually better -- like when I walked in the court it was better than the match before.  I think she was pretty nervous as well. For her it was tough to deal with all the French spectators.  In the beginning we didn't play so well.  We made some faults and there was not really a game.  I played a pretty good game from 5-4 to 6-4 breaking her.  I played two pretty well returns. Then I felt like I was the better one in the second set.  I was more attacking, more playing the dropshots.  Yeah, I was serving well at 5-1, so that's good.Q. I understand you speak both French and German.ALISON VAN UYTVANCK: Dutch.  I cannot speak German.Q. Sorry about my ignorant.  Belgium is divided into two regions, Flemish and French.  I want to make sure, which region do you belong to?ALISON VAN UYTVANCK: I am Flemish part, but I speak a bit French and English.  I'm from Brussels.Q. Okay.  Are you supported by Flemish Tennis Association?ALISON VAN UYTVANCK: Yes, the Flemish Tennis Association is supporting me.  I'm actually in the Federation, so I have a coach who's sitting behind of you, and a condition physio who's here.  Both from Federation.  We actually, yeah, work all the time together.Q. Are you close to like Wickmayer or other Flemish tennis players?ALISON VAN UYTVANCK: Yeah, we're tennis players, you know.  We're a bit on our own.  But I think we still have good contact.  We say, Congratulations after a match. So, yeah, still it's competition, but it's okay.  It's okay.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT