DIAMOND RESORTS TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 22, 2021
Greg Maddux
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Today we learned about the passing of Hank Aaron.  Talk about that a little bit and about hearing the news today.
 GREG MADDUX:   Yeah, I did.  Sadly I heard that today.  I got a text and saw that.  It's sad day.  Great man.  Obviously a great baseball player.  You know, one of my childhood heros looking up.
 You know, he kind of set the mark for home runs, and it seems like Barry and all the other guys were always trying to chase him down.  Was fortunate enough to have a couple conversations with him.  Class act.  Good man.  Really one of baseball's heros.
 Q. Is there a story or memory that stands out to you?
 GREG MADDUX:   Well, yeah, I don't know if I can say it on this, though.  (Laughter.)
 We had a couple jokes at the Hall of Fame one afternoon just sitting there.  You know, just guy talk.  Very special time for me.  I looked up to him as a kid, and he's a fixture of the Atlanta Braves there for 11 years.  Hank Aaron Drive, we drove down that road every day.
 Just a special human being and special baseball player.
 Q. As someone so connected with the Braves, give us a sense of the meaning of Hank to the city and the franchise.
 GREG MADDUX:   Yeah, I mean, you know, he kind of put Atlanta on the map.  Everybody came to see him hit a homerun, that's for sure.
 I still remember him hitting that homerun and running around the bases and seeing the fans just wanting to touch him and run the bases with him.  That was a pretty special day.
 And he was definitely the face of the franchise.
 Q. Just going to ask what it was like meeting a childhood hero for the first time and just how you felt.
 GREG MADDUX:   Yeah, it's a special day.  You're nervous.  Hey, I got to meet Hank Aaron.  You're nervous and it's just an honor.  I think so many memories of him as a kid being the best player in baseball.
 Q. What would the pitcher/hitter conversations be like between you and Hank, and what could he tell you that helped you with your pitching?
 GREG MADDUX:   You know, we really didn't talk a lot about strategy or baseball.  We -- it was -- we never really had that talk, sadly.  I would've liked to have heard about how he hit and how he saw the ball and all those things.
 You know, don't have anything for you.  Sorry.  Apologize.
 Q. He had obviously a larger than life impact on baseball and sports in general, but he didn't carry himself that way.  Weigh in on that dynamic, him as a person, just not really get caught up in ego or anything like that.
 GREG MADDUX:   Yeah, he didn't.  We would see him in Atlanta numerous times throughout the season.  Very pleasant and he never talked down to anybody.  Ever.
 Everything was positive.  You know, he was there and it was special every time you got a chance to say hi to him.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT