US OPEN
September 3, 2000
Jan Michael Gambill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Was fatigue the factor after playing a match yesterday?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  No.  I didn't feel like I was moving very well in the whole match actually.  I don't know if that was just a factor of me being lazy or if it was fatigue.  That's why I lost. 

Q.  Compared to last year, do you think your game has improved?  The outcome of this tournament right now compared to last year's one?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  I think obviously my game has improved.  I'm Top 25 in the world right now.  I've beaten a bunch of guys who are, you know, way ahead of me, and I'm moving in the right direction.  The outcome of this tournament compared to last year is simply irrelevant.  I cramped and couldn't even play last year.  This year, I just played a bad match today.  That has no bearing on how much I've improved, I don't think. 

Q.  Does the weather have any bearing, the fact it rains, it doesn't? 

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Well, I think, you know, in all fairness, we both had ample time to be ready.  Yeah, the rain's no fun.  It sucked that twice I was kicked off of the center court when I was excited to play on there.  It's just unfortunate.  You know, like I said, in all fairness, we both had plenty of time to be ready.

Q.  What did he do so well today?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  He didn't do anything so well today.  I played a bad match today.  I think that he played solid tennis from the baseline and hit deep balls, but I made way too many errors and I was too lazy in my footwork.  I just didn't give everything I had.  I'm very disappointed.  As usual, this is the tournament that it hurts the worst to lose in. 

Q.  Magnus Norman survived today.  Still, some seeds have had problems.  Who do you see right now?  Is Pete really the one person who is the foremost favorite?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  That's a funny question.  Once I'm out of the event, in all seriousness, I don't care, to tell you the truth.  Pete is the guy I look at as the player that I emulate, so I'd like to see him win the tournament.  I like Pete Sampras.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT