US OPEN
August 30, 2000
Jan Michael Gambill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







THE MODERATOR: Questions for Jan-Michael, please.

Q. When did you start cramping?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: End of the first set.

Q. Were you flashing back to Fabrice Santoro last year?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: Well, actually I was thinking -- to tell you the truth, I was
thinking of Jim Courier out there...(inaudible). I was just trying to focus on better
tennis and somehow get Mardy out of his zone that he was in. He was playing unbelievable
tennis, really great tennis. I'll tell you what, I'm excited to see another youngster is
playing that good. I didn't play that bad of tennis out there really, and he dominated a
lot of those points. It took everything I had to win the match and stay out there the
whole time.

Q. Ninth game of the third set, 4-4, you're serving. Did it get to 15-40 or 15-30 when
you missed that gimme?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: That was on his serve that I missed that gimme.

Q. Was it?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: That was on his serve.

Q. Short ball --

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: That would have been 15-40. That would have been 15-40 had I made
that shot on his serve. So that would have been definitely an advantage, but I still won
that game.

Q. Were you getting nervous about that third set at any point?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: Was I nervous?

Q. Were you getting nervous about the third set at some point?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: No, I mean I thought that, you know, after he beat me in the
second set there I thought that, "Well, now I have nothing to lose. I'm just going to
go out there and try and make it as long a match as I can and concentrate and focus on
making more returns, making him have to hit a few more balls," which worked out in my
favor. When I did well, he made more errors. He didn't make too many errors, and I had to
capitalize when he did. Every time I had break chances, I won them. I kept serving hard. I
kept serving hard, throwing in spin serves, throwing him off, throwing second serves to
his forehand. He just didn't miss returns on that backhand today. Just didn't miss them.
He was making me play every ball. You got to hand it to Mardy for playing some great
tennis. You know, I just stayed out there and kept trying.

Q. Was your knee hurting you?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: No, my knee doesn't hurt at all.

Q. I mean you were bending --

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: I couldn't bend because I was cramping.

Q. Okay.

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: I mean I was cramping. In the fifth set it was to the point where
had I gone crazy with a, you know, pumping myself up, run too much, bent too far, I would
have cramped and I would have been out of the event.

Q. Are you concerned at all about cramping in these long matches?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: Well, obviously. Absolutely concerned about it.

Q. Are you hydrating yourself properly?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: I am hydrating myself properly. I am loading on the hydration. My
body just cramps in the humidity. It's unfortunate. But I grew up in a real dry place,
Spokane's a real dry place. We have hotter summers than here, but it's very, very dry. I
need to get acclimated to the humidity a little bit more. I think I can play fine in the
humidity, but it takes a little more time for me. And those tough matches right away kill
me. Even last week against Moya I was cramping a little bit in the third set there, which
led me to believe I knew I was going to have to do something different coming in here, try
to load up on fluids. We're doing everything we can. We're going to try different
supplements tomorrow to maybe help that.

Q. What sort of things?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: Just different supplements. Trying to replace fluids and
electrolytes and minerals quicker, you know. Anything that will, you know, get it in there
quicker is something that I'll try. 

Q. You don't think you need a workup or something?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: No. What I have is just a sodium loss. I lose sodium quicker than
a lot of the guys out there. I put a lot of energy into all of my strokes, so it kind of
ebbs out and just happens. So it's not something I can really control physically without
maybe some addition of some other stuff. So we're going to try, you know, something.
Hopefully it will help.

Q. Are you a lucky guy, that you can play mixed doubles with Martina now?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: (Laughing.) I wasn't thinking about that. I got to concentrate on
our -- we have men's doubles first tomorrow. And then mixed doubles with Martina after
that. So am I a lucky guy to play with Martina? Absolutely. She's a great doubles player.
Couldn't have a better female doubles player on the court I don't think.

Q. Mark Philippoussis.

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: I'm excited, man. I'm excited to go out and play against him.
First of all, I didn't know if I was going to even get through this match at all; Mardy's
playing great tennis. I'm excited to still be in the tournament. I love playing Mark
Philippoussis; we have good matches.

Q. Why do you match up well with him?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: I don't know why I match up well with him. The matches I've won
are all real close. We have hard-fought matches. Go out there, it's great tennis, the fans
get into it, it's hopefully fun to watch me put on a good show and play some great tennis
out there. I've come out on top the last couple times. He's playing well, he's serving
huge, his usual, and his ground strokes are better and better. He works on those a lot.
It's going to be a tough match. I think I can go out there and play great.

Q. It's hard for anybody to get a feel for his serve. Do you feel like you have a
pretty good feel considering how hard and fast it's coming?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: What I like is the challenge of trying to return his serve. I love
going out there and playing against a big server because you're not supposed to return it.
So when you do, it surprises them. I just love having a chance at it, you know. If he aces
me, great, great serve. If he doesn't, maybe I made him play one more ball and maybe he
misses it.

Q. Did you have a chance to practice with Martina already?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: No, Martina and I haven't practiced yet.

Q. You'll just go in?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: We'll just go in and give it our all.

Q. Dog it out. No. 7 seed, you know that?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: No. 7 seed.

Q. That's some responsibility.

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: It is, it is. We played -- decided to play mixed doubles just
really to go out and have fun. Martina and I are friends. We get along well. I think it
will be a great time out there; it really will. There's not a lot of pressure.

Q. You didn't have to check with Magnus first?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: No.

Q. Do you have any goals?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: Goals? Our goal is to go out there and, you know, obviously to
play that match as good as we can. If we get past that one, then work on the next one. I
never look ahead. I haven't even looked at the draw. I haven't even looked at the singles
draws. I just go out there and play the next match, focus on what I need to focus on. It
doesn't help to look ahead for me. It just doesn't get you anywhere. It really doesn't.
You can say, "I'll play him if I get this far," but you have to get that far.
It's not easy. You got to look at the next match.

Q. Mardy's more of a competition than some of the younger players in the United States
at that age?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: Mardy Fish has all the strokes. He has all the shots. He's hitting
shots from the baseline that other guys on the Tour simply aren't hitting. They're not
passing me like that. You know, I'm a pretty decent volleyer now. I am reading where balls
are going. He was hitting these angles that were just unheard of. That's just too good. I
think that he's going to be a great player. I think that we're going to be fine. I think
we have some really good up-and-coming players in the U.S., with Mardy Fish and Andy
Roddick. We're going to be better off than everybody thinks.

Q. They're different players.

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: Mardy's definitely a thinker. I think he can come up with
different strategies. He tried a few out there on me. I was -- like I said, I was lucky to
get through that. I think he has a great backhand. He plays well when the guys come to the
net. Like I said, he has a very good forehand as well. Andy Roddick has a little bigger
serve and likes to play that forehand. He's more of a rallier on the backhand, gets around
and hits that forehand big, which he does as well. The only thing Mardy needs to work on
is improving his first-serve speed just a little bit. But just a little bit. He was
hitting it pretty hard out there today. He seems to miss some of those long. That comes
with just being young.

Q. Given the physical issues you talked about already, do you think that it's harder
for you to stay in three different competitions, or is it --

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: Well, tell you what, we're gonna find out 'cause I'm still in all
three, and I'm looking forward to playing tomorrow. I don't think that I'll ever cramp in
a doubles match. That's just not going to happen because they're not long enough and
you're not playing as much tennis, running as much. The only problem for me ever is the
singles. The singles is number one, of course. It's always been number one. But I thought
that playing three events here would be fun. After this I have some time off, and so, you
know, I feel like I can go out here and give it my all.

Q. You didn't face a break point in the last two sets.

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: Well, I feel like I really improved my serve. I think I placed it
very well. Like I said, I was hitting some of the second serves to his forehand, try to
throw him off a little bit. Also started increasing the speed of my ground strokes. I
said, "I'm gonna go out there, hit the ball a lot harder than I have been, try not to
let him control the points." (Inaudible) Ad court, a lot of aces, lot of success over
there. In the deuce court, he was moving it around to both sides. I definitely served
better and played smarter in those last two sets.

Q. Rallies are going to be a lot shorter tomorrow?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: They will be a lot shorter.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT