WIMBLEDON
July 5, 2000
Jan Michael Gambill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  What's the nature of your injuries during that match?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Well, something I did to my hip actually in the Enqvist match.  It wasn't very serious.  It hurts a little bit.  Wasn't able to push off as much as I would like to without that wrap.  So the wrap helped a lot, mainly to keep it warm.  It seemed to help.  Wasn't  that bad.  Just from playing so many weeks in a row, a lot of matches.  The bleeding was both here and here (touching chest).  I was bleeding from I guess the shirt rubbing against my chest there (indicating).  It was just weird.  Never had that happen before.  Not something you'd want to have happen to you on Centre Court.  I was a little disappointed with that shirt. 

Q.  Gave Pete a good, firm handshake when it was over, didn't you?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Of course, I did.  What kind of question is that? 

Q.  Jonas Bjorkman gave him a limp handshake, sort of grated on him a bit. 

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  I have nothing but good things to say about Pete.  He played a good match.  I'm happy for him.  I hope he wins the tournament.

Q.  What's the aura around Pete  - Centre Court, Wimbledon?  Is this his house, so to speak?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Well, I don't think there's a noticeable aura.  I don't think that I saw anything, force field around him or anything.  Must be one because he keeps winning.  I don't know.  You know, he knows how to win those big points.  He plays smart.  I don't think he did anything especially well to break me at 4-All in each of those sets that he broke me in.  I think I made the errors.  But you've got to hand it to him.  He made the returns, made me play the points.  It was my own stupidity that lost me those games.  He did put the ball back into play.

Q.  Pete said you're the future of American tennis, he was very impressed with you.  When you think about the Sampras legacy, the Andre Agassi legacy, they're getting towards the twilight of their careers, how would you describe what their legacy is to American tennis and the sport in general?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Well, you know, Pete and Andre have carried on from Jimmy Connors and John McEnroe before them.  You know, they pretty much have been American tennis, along with Jimbo, you know, Courier, Martin.  We had a lot of good guys that have done so well.  Those two seem to stand out the most because they've done it over, over, and over for so many years, have won so many Slams, been No.  1, done this and that.  They've always been up there, always in the spotlight.  They handle it very well.

Q.  Looked like he may have given you a couple words after the match.  Did he talk to you when he shook your hand?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  He did talk to me.  He said, "Good tournament, well played."  I said, "Thank you."  I told him to go for it.  Of course, I want to see the guy that beats me win the tournament.  Always makes you feel better. 

Q.  Are you going to stick around and cheer for the rest of the Americans in this tournament? 

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  I will be on a flight tomorrow ASAP.  I have been over in Europe for over two and a half months.  It will be nice to be home.  I'll be home as soon as possible.

Q.  What's your hard court tournament trail?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Davis Cup is first, then LA, Toronto if I make the main draw there, otherwise I might take that week off.  I need another week off.  We'll see if I make it.  After that, Cincinnati, Washington, then right before The Open there's New Jersey, then The Open.

Q.  You're going to play the week before The Open?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Yes, I am.  I like that tournament. 

Q.  What advice would you give Voltchkov, the qualifier who finds himself on Centre Court next against Pete?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Hmm, I don't know if I would give him advice, for a couple reasons.  Mainly, he seems to have gotten there himself, to the semis.  That's pretty damn well done.  He was able to beat a great grass court player in Pioline, able to beat Black in straight sets today.  I think Black was up a break in that second set.  I'm not sure if I saw that right.  Black is tough on the grass.  Voltchkov is obviously playing great tennis.

Q.  Your game was already at a good level before you played this match.  Does Pete bring you up even more?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  I don't know.  I had a few opportunities out there.  It was tough.  He was serving so well.  Some of the time I just had to applaud him.  Some of his shots are just impressive.  It's just fun to watch, even though they're going by me.  I'd rather get them back.  He serves such big second serves that it takes away any opportunities.  Every one of my breakpoints he got a first serve in, which is just well done, that's great.  I hit some good shots to get breakpoints.  I think in the third set I had one where I had two breakpoints in the game.  I think if I could have won that game there, I would have won the set.  He does that, he serves it out, plays well.  I was very impressed with his baseline play as well.  He did things from the back that in the past he just hasn't been able to do against me.  When I go into a match against Pete, I think I should win most of the groundstroke rallies.  He surprised me in a couple of those and hit some great shots.  I just take away from this match knowing that I played mentally tough this whole tournament, had a great event.  I'm going to be confident for the rest of the summer.  I feel like I'm playing good tennis.  I'm excited, you know, to get back out there again after a well-deserved rest. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT