WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2000
Jan Michael Gambill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  You have Pete Sampras next.  Pete was saying earlier that he thinks some players are somewhat skeptical about the extent of his injuries, that there's talk about it, that sort of thing.  Have you heard any such talk?  Do you subscribe that he's really not hurt as badly?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Pete's not going to fake an injury.  I think a thing that Pete's not going to do is go out there and, you know, act like it's hurt when it doesn't hurt.  He's going to give it a hundred percent.  Like I said in another interview, even if he had a broken leg, I wouldn't say the match is won.  He's going to go out there and play amazing tennis. 
 
Q.  You've been waffling around with your game for the last couple of years, trying to find a streak that would take you to this next level.  You've done that here.  What are the elements that you've accomplished this year that have taken you to the next plateau?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Well, I don't know if I was necessarily ever looking for a streak in general.  I was looking for what would make me become a better player, what would carry me to the Top 20 and even further eventually.  Those things are fundamentals:  being mentally tough when you really need to be, the big points, and also developing some things in my game that I didn't have in the past.  Right now I'm serving humongus, serving big second serves as well  - I think I hit six or seven second-serve aces.  Makes it tough for the guy to know what to do on the return.  It's not easy to play against a guy like that.  I'm doing a lot of things right and have a lot of confidence out there, which comes from winning the matches. 
 
Q.  Did you watch Sampras at all?  Seems to be playing as well as he has. 
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  I didn't get a chance to watch.  I was playing at the same time he was.  Jonas is a great player, great grasscourt player.  Pete must have had a great day. 
 
Q.  Put it into perspective for us what you're thinking going into this match?  Probably you'll play on Centre Court, a guy you have a lot of respect for, perhaps idolize.  What's going through your mind as you approach this in the next day or so?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  I'd say I'm one of the luckiest people on earth.  I get to go out there in the quarterfinals of Wimbledon, play on Centre Court, play Pete Sampras, the King of Wimbledon, the best player to ever play the game.  It's extremely exciting.  I'm going to go out there and have a lot of fun and I'm going to play great tennis.  It's something to look forward to. 
 
Q.  How could you avoid not getting overwhelmed by the occasion?  Beating Lleyton and Enqvist, but playing Pete on Centre Court is a different ball of wax.
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  To tell you the truth, there's nothing to be overwhelmed about.  I love and enjoy playing in front of a big crowd.  I've waited all my life to play on Centre Court Wimbledon.  There's really nothing for me to be overwhelmed about.  I'm just going to go out there and have a great time.  This has turned into a great event for me, a great trip.  There's nowhere to go but up from here. 
 
Q.  Before now, what's the biggest match or the biggest crowd you've played before?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  I played Centre Court US Open, as well, which was very special.  I think that stadium is even bigger, so there's more people there.  The Centre Court out here is more amazing.  
 
Q.  What happened to the top half of this draw?  Black, Gambill, Voltchkov, not what people would have filled in doing a pool on it. 
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  It's really tough to call who's going to win.  Certainly on the grass, you know, we don't get to play on it that much.  Voltchkov has played great tennis.  He had to play incredibly well to beat Ferreira that easily, in straight sets.  Byron Black has always played well on the grass.  I played him last week in Nottingham, two weeks ago in Nottingham.  He beat up on me. I think he's playing well, playing good tennis. 
 
Q.  Have the people that represent you ever tried, during your pro career, to portray you as a sort of non-tennis entertainment fashion in the same way Anna Kournikova's agents have done to exploit that particular aspect of her life?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Well, I don't know if FSX has done that so much.  There's been a lot of media about that kind of thing.  I recently signed with Ford Modeling Agency to do some extra stuff on the side.  I think we might get some good things coming from that.  FSX does pretty much sports marketing stuff so far. 
 
Q.  Could that be distracting to your tennis career?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Absolutely not.  That's something I would do on the side, and it would be  -- if anything, it would be a good diversion, you know, to give me a little bit something extra, something different to do.  It's healthy to have other things to do, I think.  I have a lot of hobbies.  That could sort of be sort of a job hobby I think. 
 
Q.  When you go in against Sampras, you talked before about how much respect you have for him, can you have too much respect for him going in? 
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Well, I don't think so.  I definitely respect Pete.  I think he's a great player, a great person.  I'm just going to go out there.  On the court, it's completely different, though.  I'm not going to see his face out there.  I'm just going to play the ball like I have been playing the whole week here, really continue to focus like I have.  Today I guess my match was a long match.  Sometimes in the rain delays, I have problems.  Today I came out and focused well after both rain delays.  Played great tennis.  I'm going to do the same thing out there whether it be Centre Court against Pete Sampras or Court 13 out here.  Whatever, it's going to be one point at a time.  That's how I've gotten myself so far. 
 
Q.  You haven't really had a great year until the last week or two.  What's really turned it around on the grass?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Well, a few things turned it around.  Like I've said before, it's the confidence, it's the fundamentals, being able to play the big points the right way, being mentally tough out there.  I did switch to another racquet earlier in the year.  That hurt me a little bit.  It was a very good racquet, but it's not good for my groundstrokes.  I switched back to my old racquet.  That gives me a little more confidence, as well.  You know, playing with things the right way feels good.  
 
Q.  We're doing a story on the tabloids.  Are you having a relationship with Britney Spears?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  No.  
 
Q.  What about Christina Aguilera?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  I never met either of those girls.  That's really funny.  I have a girlfriend.  No, my girlfriend lives in Connecticut.  She's a model, but no. 
 
Q.  Not a singer?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  No, not a singer. 
 
Q.  How many times has she been on MTV?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  I think she's been in a couple videos, but she doesn't look anything like those girls. 
 
Q.  John McEnroe recently said that in addition to Pete and Andre and Todd, he was leaning towards you for the additional spot on the team.  What would that mean to you to make the team and to play in Spain?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Well, I tell you, it's a huge honor for me to always play Davis Cup.  I mean, Davis Cup is something I hold very special.  Being from the United States, it's very tough to be on the team, you know, because we have Pete, we have Andre, we've had Jimbo Courier in the past playing tennis, Todd Martin, Michael Chang.  There's all these players that could play.  To be named to the team is huge.  A semifinal match, huge match against Spain, we're the underdogs going in there on the clay.  It's very exciting.  I'm thrilled. 
 
Q.  You think you can handle the crowd in Spain?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Absolutely. 
 
Q.  You indicated last week that you were not inclined to go to the Olympic Games.  If you don't go, Jeff Tarango could get the fourth spot.  Are you open to rethinking your position on that?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Well, I never said that I wasn't going to go to the Olympics, for sure.  I said I don't know if I'm even on the team.  I'm still an alternate.  It's something that  -- it's so far ahead that I'm just not going to look that far ahead. 
 
Q.  But you have to decide by July 31st. 
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Well, then I have a month to look at it.  You know, I'm still not going to make a decision yet.  I still haven't talked to the Olympic Committee.  I haven't been able to talk to the USTA about it.  I'm still in the dark about that.  I would never take the place of Tarango just to spite him.  I'm friends with Tarango.  We've never had a problem.  
 
Q.  I didn't suggest that.  Do you think there's anything in your game between this match and playing Pete that you'll have to maybe improve on, perhaps 50% first serves in as your average throughout the match?  Any specific area that you're looking at where you have to bear down in order to beat Pete?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Well, I think - is that what it was, 50 percent?  I think I served 34 aces.  My second serve was huge today.  Got to make sure to hit big second serves because I know Pete is going to want to come to the net, chip and charge, put a lot of pressure on me.  I've got to be ready to pass him if he does come in, because I expect him to do that.  Basically he's not going -- if I hit those big serves, they're still not going to come back.  If I go out there hitting those big serves and playing solid service games, then really focusing on my return, I could go out there and play an unbelievable match and still lose to Pete.  I'm just going to have a great time and really focus on the things I need to do.  If I somehow get a chance to be able to, you know, win the match or whatever, I'm going to take it still one point at a time.  The things I need to do are return well and serve big. 
 
Q.  Is there any way to rattle Pete when he gets into his serving zone, hitting ace after ace, service winner after service winner on grass?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Well, the big thing for me out there is to not let him actually hit the ace.  You know, I'm going to be diving, trying so hard just to get my racquet on the ball, to maybe shank a winner here or there.  Then when I do get a solid return, you know, be there.  Also be ready for him to hit his huge second serves.  He's hitting huge second serves.  Be ready for that, know that going into the match, be ready to execute the second serve returns.  You can rattle him, but it's not easy. 
 
Q.  Anybody who sat in the proximity of Chuck during one of your matches has recorded a lot of blue language.  When you listen to him, the first thing you wonder is how you react to that over the years because your personality seems so diametrically different.
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Than my dad's?  
 
Q.  Yes. 
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  I think we've done a good job of being friends and have a father-son and a coach-player relationship over the years.  I think he's going to be the way he is on the court.  He wants me to win every single point, which is hard to do.  That's not a problem for me.  I don't hear him on the court.  I'm just playing  -- out there playing.  None of that's going to change.  
 
Q.  If you knew that Sampras has a foot injury or think he might have one, is there any way to attack that, take advantage of it?  You just ignore it and play the way you play anyway?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  I guess, you mean attack him?  Tackle him, you mean?  
 
Q.  Can you make him run more, make him go certain directions?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  I'm always going to be trying to make him run more anyway.  If I get in the groundstrokes rallies, that's how I'm going to win the match.  He's not going to be staying back very much.  He's going to be coming to the net and play the tennis that's carried him so far in this event so many times.  If I'm lucky to get him at the baseline running him, that's something I'll definitely work on. 
 
Q.  You have a pretty distinctive last name.  With that in mind, if you had to set odds for the match with Pete, what would you set the odds at?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  That's sort of an evil question to ask me.  I don't think I'm going to answer that one.  I don't think I can really set odds against myself.  I like my odds.  I like my chances out there in the quarterfinals.  I'm really excited to be there.  That's all I can say.  
 
Q.  The racquet change.  When a racquet company like Prince comes to you and says they have a new racquet to try, how much pressure do they apply?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  They actually applied no pressure at all.  I tried the new racquet because I was so disgusted with my play at the Australian Open.  I played some great doubles matches with it.  It was a great match for my doubles, but not so good for my singles.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT