WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2000
Jan Michael Gambill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR: Good evening. Jan-Michael Gambill. The floor is yours.  
 
Q. Tough to come back and play right again after a big win yesterday?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: I think it was a little bit tough. May have showed there a little
bit in the first set. I think my concentration waivered there in the first set. Had a bad
game at 4-All, maybe it was at 4-5. After that I think I felt pretty confident and really
played well, executed my serve and returns very well through the rest of the three sets.  
 
Q. Tough to play another two-hander?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: It's always tough for me to play Fabrice. He's beaten me twice
last year in very tough matches. One was a five-setter, I think like we said yesterday.
He's a tough guy to play. You never really know what he's going to do. He passes really
well on the grass or any surface. He makes you play. If I make a lot of errors, I'm
probably going to lose. I went out there knowing I needed to play smart tennis and needed
to stick to the strategy.  
 
Q. You play Paul next. 
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: I think so. I haven't seen the draw. 
 
Q. Another American. Does that match-up mean anything to you?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: That's exciting. I mean it means that two young guys are in the
third round of Wimbledon. It's great. I'm excited to play him. 
 
Q. You played a lot in juniors, right?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: Paul and I only played twice in juniors. 
 
Q. Is he the kind of guy who would pull gamesmanship or anything like that during a
match?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: Paul Goldstein would never pull gamesmanship in the match. 
 
Q. Did you see the finish?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: No, I didn't. I was still playing. 
 
Q. Did you hear about it in the locker room? Were people talking about it?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: People were talking about it. I wasn't there.  
 
Q. Tarango basically wouldn't shake his hand because he thought he was pulling
gamesmanship by bringing out the trainer. 
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: Tarango has done that before. Paul, I've never heard of it. 
 
Q. Can you think of any circumstance where after a five-set, four-hour match, you
wouldn't shake the hand of your competitor?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: Well, I think for me, I can't -- unless the guy -- it would have
to be pretty outrageous for me to not break somebody's hand because that's the tradition.
There's a lot of times where I don't want to shake the guy's hand, but he's going to get a
handshake anyway. For myself, that wouldn't happen. 
 
Q. What is Jeff's reputation among the guys on tour?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: I've always liked Jeff. We've always gotten along. 
 
Q. What's his reputation among the guys on tour?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: I really couldn't say.  
 
Q. Were you concerned about being able to bounce back? One of the biggest hurdles to
becoming a real good player is getting a good win like you had, then backing it up with
the next day. Was that a concern of yours? Have to caution yourself?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: It was definitely a concern, like I said yesterday, proving to
myself that I can go out and play tough matches time and time again. I was a little
disappointed in that first set. I knew I could really come out there and play well in the
rest of the match. I knew he's going to have trouble breaking me, where I have a lot of
opportunities to break him. I'm happy with my performance, the outcome of it. I think it's
good. I'm excited to play my third round. This is very exciting. This is the only the
second time I've made the third round of a Grand Slam. I'm really pumped about it. It's
going to be fun.  
 
Q. Mark Philippoussis was talking about how he was selling a bunch of his cars, going
to move back to Australia to really focus on his tennis. Seems like you have some of the
same interests with the Jaguars. Is there a sense of comfort when you're doing well enough
to have those types of things that keeps you from having the hunger or the focus to be
like a Sampras, have the big success? What are your thoughts on that?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: I think Mark is a little bit of a different story. He's been known
-- he's even a far crazier spender than I have been in the past (laughter). I'm pretty
choosy. My money is very well-invested. The money I play with isn't a majority at all. My
dad was a stockbroker for 15 years. We're not stupid with it. My passion for the Jaguars
is simply that. I would never sell them. That's just not something that will happen. I'll
die with those cars, and I love them. I collect them as a passion. I enjoy driving them.
The experience that I can go back and go on a country drive or whatever, I can get away
from everything, it's something I look forward to a lot. I still live at home. I'm have
them in one place. We just built a garage for them. It's a little different. I don't buy a
car because I think it's cool and that's that. I really stick with the marquis that I love
and believe in. It's a little different story. But Mark has fun. 
 
Q. Is there a comfort? You have everything you want. 
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: I tell you what, I don't have everything I want. They have a lot
of cars I still want. Tell you what, I'd love one of their F-1 cars. 
 
Q. How many would you like to have?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: I don't know. There's a few more classics I would like to have.
There's a few really neat classics, but you're looking at the C and D type race cars from
the '50s that cost two million pounds. That's ludicrous really. I'm looking actually to
build a house next year, which I'm looking forward to, am excited about. 
 
Q. Is the house for your Jaguars?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: No. The house will be for me. No, we just finished a garage for
them actually. It's a little different. It's fun.  
 
Q. How many Jags do you have?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: I have six. 
 
Q. Again, when will you stop? 20? Is there any kind of top end where that would be a
collection or will this go on forever?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: That does depend on the success, my success, of course, how much
space I guess I have in my garage. I can see having 12, something like that. I wouldn't
sell any of the ones that I think are unique or are no longer produced, like my classics.
The new ones, I would see trading in if a newer, better model came out. 
 
Q. Work with me here. Jaguars are known for their elegance, workmanship, classic
quality. What player on the tour reminds you most of those qualities? 
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: I'm going to have to say it's me right now. No, I think I'd have
to say Pete Sampras. I mean, he's in my opinion the best player that's ever played the
game. I'll say it again. There's nobody that has better-looking strokes when he's at his
top. He can go out there and just make a lot of guys look terrible when he was playing his
best tennis.  
 
Q. Is there a burning desire for you to win a bunch of majors? Is it okay to have the
success you've had and be able to have the comforts you have?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: I think I've earned -- none of the stuff that I have is anything
that was given to me. I've earned it all. It's nothing that I'll ever take for granted. I
still have a major desire to do well and to do well especially in the Slams. I'm finally
finding out how to win in the Slams. It's a positive future.  
 
Q. You still live at home. Where in eastern Washington do you practise for grass court
tennis? Are there courts in Spokane?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: We have clay courts in Spokane. I go over to Mission Hills. I've
been in Europe for a long time. I've been here since Rome. The clay court season
transferred to the grass court season. I've just played the three events leading up to
Wimbledon -- the two events, Queen's and Nottingham. That's all the practise. 
 
Q. The house is in Spokane that you're looking to build?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: Right. Property right above our house where we already live.  
 
Q. Who is coaching you?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: My dad coaches me, always has. 
 
Q. Did you design your home, the house you're building? Did you turn it over to an
architect?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: I'm going to design it with an architect. I'm looking to build a
log-looking cabin-type of place.  
 
Q. Are you going to make the trophy room small, medium or big?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: I guess we'll have to find out. The house will take a couple
years.  
 
Q. Do you have any pets?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: We have four horses, five dogs. I think I have five cats right
now, as well. My charity also deals with cats, as well. It's a zoological park in Spokane
called Cattails. We have 45 big cats, tigers, lions and jaguars. I donated a lot of time
and money, learned to be a trainer there, walk the tigers, baby feed them with the bottle. 
 
Q. Learning to be a trainer?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: Learning to be a trainer. Taking classes and doing some extra
stuff. I really like cats a lot and endangered species in general. It's close, two miles
from our house. It's really Spokane Zoo. I'm looking to better it and better myself by
learning from the cats. 
 
Q. When you're talking about a trainer, we're not talking about Siegfried and Roy?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: Right. It's true. We walk the cats. There was four baby tigers
born about a year ago, we had a lot of hands-on with them. We've raised them. The keepers
have raised them. You want to have a lot of hands-on because people can learn so much from
these cats. You can have a lot of interaction. When you bring them up like that, they're
declawed because they work a lot with people, they're very well-mannered. We walk them
daily and bottle feed them. They're pretty big. It's getting a little scary. 
 
Q. Which came first, your love of the cats or your love of the cars?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: My love of the cats came first. 
 
Q. Is it related to why you like Jags?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: Probably. I think it probably is. I always have had a love for
cats. We've always had cats. We've always had animals. I just love animals. I think the
cars is maybe a little different. 
 
Q. What breed are your dogs?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: We have five dogs. We have a Chihuahua, Siberian Husky, a
Keeshond, a mutt and a dog that just appeared on our property not too long ago. I don't
know what he is. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT