WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2000
Jan Michael Gambill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR: Good evening. Mr. Gambill.  
 
Q. Pretty amazing performance. Can you flow some comment about it?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: Sure. I knew that I was playing Lleyton I think for quite awhile
now, since last week. I was getting pretty pumped for it the whole time. Very excited for
it. I think we have very exciting matches when we play. The previous times have been great
matches. I respect him a lot as a player, and as a person. I think going out there and
playing against a guy like that is enjoyable for me. I think that I'm playing good tennis
right now, so I was excited to go out there and have a good battle. I really played well. 
 
Q. Coming off a semifinal win a couple weeks ago, last week, do you feel that momentum
coming in here?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: I think I learned a lot last week. I learned against Byron. Why I
lost that match is because I was hitting the ball a little bit too short. I was hitting
the ball hard and running him, but it's just too short. My balls were landing just at the
service line or past the service line. That's not going to get it done. I knew I had to
come out and hit the ball deep and hard and serve well. I did all those things. I also
fought well in the third set. I was down a break; didn't let it bother me really, and
stayed in there. I was prepared if I had to go to five sets and to hopefully come through.
Played a good match. I'm happy for it. 
 
Q. There's been so much buzz about him since Queen's. Did that make it easier or more
difficult for you?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: Well, I think, you know, going into matches is always going to be
the same against Lleyton. I know he's a fiery player. I know how he's going to play. I
know how I have to play in order to win, in order to stay in there. He's been doing great
this whole year basically. He's just proven time and time again how good of a player he
is, how tough and fierce of a competitor he is. That's sort of the way I'd like to be out
there, as well. I think playing a match like that is very helpful for me confidence-wise.  
 
Q. How big is this win for you in terms of on this stage? I know you've had big wins
over top-ranked players, but where do you put this one?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: It's about time that I really come out and continue to play well.
I've been really sort of sidelined by various reasons: injuries last year a few times, and
confidence problems in the past. I can play well against these guys, I think, and I can
beat them. I can really play well. I think I can get my ranking up a lot higher than it is
right now. I need to come out and play a lot more matches like this. There's no reason I
can't stay out there and stay mentally tough the whole time. What that match proves to me,
once again, is that I can, against a top guy, play a mentally tough match for three
straight sets if I have to, and even go further. 
 
Q. How about that third set? You came back from down a break and really could have gone
easily against you, into a fourth. 
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: It was a tough third set. I think he played a good game to break
me there. I made a couple errors on where I was hitting the ball. But it's tough. He
returns well. He played a tough game. But I stayed tough and really forced him to make the
errors and made some good returns there I think at, what was it, 3-5. Also at the 2-5
game, he had I think two or three set points where I battled, even serve-and-volleyed
once. Knowing how well he returns, it's tough to serve-and-volley. I surprised him and hit
a deep volley. I kept it tough and really showed him maybe in that match that I wasn't
going to give up. That's part of it. 
 
Q. You've had some very big wins over top players. Why has confidence been such a
problem, at least maintaining it for you?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: Well, sometimes it's just that things will break down. My
fundamentals will break down. I'll be thinking about, why is that happening? What is
making me not play as well as I can when I know that this is the way I can play. It's
tough when things like that happen. My footwork sometimes gets a little lax. It's not
natural for me to be a quick mover, much like Lleyton. I had to work on it a lot harder.
It's something I've been working on. I think my footwork has improved a lot. Also my
fundamentals. Today I was out there and didn't really make any fundamental errors, which
is great. I had very few unforced errors, as well. That means that I'm moving my feet
well. That's the way I'm going to win. 
 
Q. If you qualified for the Olympics, would you go?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: That's a tough question. The problem with that is that the
Olympics is really at a tough time of the year. I go over and I play that Asian circuit. I
also play the European circuit. It's really going to be a long haul for me to go over and
go to Australia, come all the way back, go to Asia, then go all the way to Europe. It's
going to be a tough call. 
 
Q. When you scheduled yourself for that, knowing the Olympics were coming up, was that
a consideration, not scheduling yourself for it?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: To tell you the truth, my tennis hasn't been in the place where I
could really schedule the Olympics in because unfortunately I've had some bad tournaments
and haven't had enough good ones that I could really say, "This is the time that I
can go and play the Olympics when I don't really have to focus on the Asian
tournaments." I need to play well there and play well in Europe, as well. I have some
points to defend at the end of the year, nothing till then. It's time for me to make a
jump. Not knowing if I was going to be on the Olympic team, you can't really schedule it.
It's tough. 
 
Q. It's kind of a two-edged sword. If you do well here, you might qualify for the
Olympics. You're going to have to be in a position to turn it down which could create some
negative publicity from some sources. How are you going to deal with that?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: I think it would be unfortunate. The main thing is I really need
to think about me and really playing well this year. One of the things that's always on my
mind is Davis Cup and how much I want to play that and play for my country. It's
unfortunate that all that stuff is scheduled at once. It's tough to really make all the
decisions. We'll see when the time comes.  
 
Q. In your gut, do you think you can reach the really elite level, Top 10 player on a
consistent basis, regularly reaching the semis of Grand Slams? Is that something in your
gut you think is achievable for you?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: I think that's been the big mystery for me. I've never really had
a great result at a Grand Slam. I've never come out and played well and continued to play
well in three-out-of-five set matches. That's the thing that I need to know up here before
going out, knowing that I can win it in five sets if I have to. I lost a real tough
five-set match last year, but I was down two sets to love, came back and lost in the fifth
set. That kind of match is great, even if you lose it. I think the more I play Slams, the
better I'm going to do in them. I think I can be up there. I think I can really play well
in these tournaments and the smaller events as well. 
 
Q. On a larger scale, do you think your generation, with Paul and Justin, do you think
you can ignite tennis in a way that previous generation did? 
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: Well, you know, I think that we're good players. I think we can do
well. It's very tough to live up to what we have to live up to, frankly. Pete has done
unbelievably well. I think he's the best player of all time. That's very hard to live up
to. Andre coming back and doing as well as he has is great. I can keep naming them. Jim
Courier, who I look up to a lot, has done so well. All these American guys, it's tough to
live up to that. That's not exactly my goal. I'd like to do that, but I'm going to really
just look to keep improving my fundamentals and my game. If I somehow make it to anywhere
near that level, I'd be very happy.  
 
Q. Do you sense at all that after an initial flurry of interest in you, people have
written you off a bit? Did you ever get that sensation or feeling? If so, did it hurt your
pride?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: Well, you know what, maybe a little bit. There wasn't as many
people asking as many questions for sure after I did well at Indian Wells that year and
had big results. I've had some big results every year, but not enough of them to really
create and confirm the interest. I think that's what I need to go out and do.  
 
Q. From your experience today, what makes Lleyton Hewitt a big contender for the
tournament?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: Well, because Lleyton Hewitt, I compare him to one of the guys I
look up to the most over the years, Jimmy Connors. Lleyton Hewitt is such a fierce
competitor that he goes out there and he doesn't allow himself to ever have bad matches
really. If you give him an inch, he takes a mile and he beats you. That's why he's such a
good competitor. That's why he's so tough. He just knows how to win and doesn't ever give
up. I can learn from that. 
 
Q. Why wasn't it working today, though?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: Well, I think I played a good match out there today. I think that
I overpowered him from the baseline and I served big. I don't know what really he could
have done different. Maybe he could have served a little better in the first set there. I
think that I played a great match, and that's why I won. 
 
Q. You're serving for the match on Stadium Court at Wimbledon. Nerves?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: Yeah, I tell you there's definitely some nerves. Playing Stadium
Court is pretty amazing. I played only one other Stadium Court at a Grand Slam and that is
the US Open. I have to say that this is even more amazing, just the feeling of the court
is almost ancient. It's a neat feeling to be out there. It's an honor. I had a great time
and played a great match. I'm very proud of it. 
 
Q. What are you thinking when you go up to the centre service mark to serve out that
final game?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: I had a double-fault there I think at 30-15. But I went for a good
serve, missed it way long. Served some big serves, served well when I was down. I was
thinking then at ad-out, "If you lose this point, it's just going to be a tiebreaker
anyway, you have a great shot to win the tiebreaker as well." I was going to go out
there and hit a big serve like I had the whole match, hopefully play a solid game. I was
pretty focused today. Didn't really pay attention to what was happening. I just was
thinking about the next point. That waivered a little bit in the last game, but not much. 
 
Q. What kind of result here at Wimbledon would it take where you would go back and say,
"I've done so well here at Wimbledon, I'm going to add a car to my collection"? 
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: You know, I'm actually very happy with the cars that I have right
now. I'm excited to go back and drive them when I get home. I just got new rims for my
XKR, 20-inch rims. I'm looking forward to the Jaguar F type that's coming out in the next
year. That will be the next time I add to the collection.  
 
Q. Where does the feeling of ancient in the stadium come from?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: It's sort of hard to explain till you're out there. It's just this
feeling, knowing how many great players and people that I look up to, how many great
matches have been played on that court. It's just so perfect. The people are so close. It
just is this ominous feeling, but it's a great feeling. It's an honor to play there.  
 
Q. Hot player, obviously the place. How important is it for you that you rose to the
occasion?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: I think it's very important. It goes to show that I've been in
Europe for a long time now, over two months, and in the past that's hurt me. In the past
I've been ready to go home. I'd lose the match and say, "Doesn't matter because I'm
just going to be happy to be home for a while." Not this time. I've had a great trip
in Europe. Had some better results this year. I'm not looking to go home.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT