TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 30, 2000
Jan Michael Gambill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







GREG SHARKO: Questions for Jan-Michael. 

Q. Pretty good stuff out there in the first set particularly. Seems like a pity to
waste 20 aces out there tonight. What do you think finally happened?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: Well, first of all, I don't think any of those aces were wasted.
They all won me the points. I just had some trouble with that one service game - I don't
know what it was - 4-All. I had my hold chances. Kind of let a couple slip. You know, he's
tough. I knew he's tough. I knew he's going to run down a lot of balls. I was controlling
the points; I was the one making the errors most of the time. It was pretty much up to me
I think during the whole match. He hit some good passing shots and got some balls that no
other player on the tour would get. That makes it tough. I still feel like I'm playing
good tennis. I really think I'm going to play well this year. 

Q. You talk about the passing shots he ran down, which he does. I mean, can you see him
getting even quicker as well as being sounder?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: Well, I think that's up to Lleyton. I don't know. 

Q. I mean, in the way he's developed over the last 12 months. 

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: I'm not so sure he's going to get any quicker. He's pretty quick
already. He might eventually start hitting the ball harder. But what he does wins. If I
were him, I wouldn't change anything. I couldn't personally play that way. I think he's
got a great game. 

Q. Who do you like tomorrow night between him and Pete?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: Well, I think it will be a tough match. Depends on how well Pete
serves. Lleyton is returning pretty well. Pete is going to have to hit damn well off the
baseline in order to beat him or pull some great volleys out. 

Q. Does his ability to retrieve sort of unconsciously push you to hit closer to the
line, taking more risks?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: I think you asked me that question before. 

Q. Not tonight. 

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: A couple days ago. No, I don't think so. It's just long rallies. I
go for big shots anyway. That's the way I play. I played the way I wanted to play today.
Just made a few errors. Missed some balls a little bit wide and a little bit long. I'm not
going to miss those balls in a few months. I think I'm getting better every day I play.
I'll be able to play matches like this and win them. I'm pretty confident right now coming
out of this tournament. Even though I lost, I'm looking forward and working on a few
things, getting even better out there. You know, he's tough. I've got to hand it to him. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT