US OPEN
August 31, 2002
Jan Michael Gambill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  After that performance around the net two days ago, this one was even better.  You missed four points at the net today, 20 out of 24.  You probably could feel it. 

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Well, I think I was pressing  -- my goal today was to take it to him from the baseline, of course.  Any shot that was inside the court, I really wanted to nail and get to the net on, at least make it hard for him to get the next approach on.  My approach shots today were very good, very deep.  I think he passed me one time.  I don't feel like  -- I had a chance at the net every time.  I was closing it out very well.  I was putting it away.

Q.  This ace very dangerous baseline player, very good on both sides.  This must feel particularly good to have controlled him. 

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Well, I'll tell you what, I knew going out there he's got a big backhand, very good forehand.  I took the staple strategy I had against Moya with this guy.  I felt like if I was dictating the points on the backhand, I'm still going to be able to have that shot to nail to his forehand and dictate the points.  I felt like my backhand was better.  I didn't think he could hurt me backhand to backhand.  If he on occasion was able to rip a winner up the line, that's one thing.  I didn't think Centre Court to Centre Court he was going to have it today.  I was proved right. 

Q.  Agassi hasn't given up a game, been broken once, faced 10 breakpoints, hit 90 winners, 60 unforced errors.  Phenomenal tennis. 

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  He has been playing great tennis.  You know, I've only been broken once, too.  I didn't give up a whole lot of games today either.  I'm confident going into that match tomorrow.  I played Andre in the finals of LA a couple weeks ago.  I know what he did to beat me that day.  I know what I need to do to change, to at least give myself an opportunity to win against him.  There's nobody out here on the tour that I have more respect for on the court and/or off.  He's a great guy.  It's going to be a tough match.  I'm excited about it.

Q.  Was there a point at which you were intimidated by him?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Absolutely.  Intimidated by him off the court? 

Q.  On the court. 

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Both, absolutely.  For quite a while.  He still can intimidate on the court.  But I need to bring the presence that I've had in these matches out to that court and give it my all. I've been having fun playing this week, playing the best tennis I have all year.  What better place to do it than at the US Open? 

Q.  Regardless of what bravado you've told before the match, in the back of your mind, are you telling yourself that you can't beat him?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  I won't be telling myself that this time.  Going into the matches against him that I've had.  Last few times  -- well- LA I played decent tennis, made the final there.  I didn't think I played great tennis from the baseline.  Right now from the baseline, I'm playing great tennis, I think.  I think I hopefully can match up against him and give him a match.  At the same time I'm going to go out there with just a clear head, I'm going to play one point at a time.  I'm not going to think about it being Andre Agassi out there.  If he out-foxes me again, more power to him.  I'm going to go out with a clear mind, have a good time, not worry about who is on the other side.

Q.  You talked a couple days ago about how Nick and your dad got together, really worked on your net approaches, split stepping D that all take place in one session down in Key Biscayne someplace?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  No.  Actually, don't forget Scott, he has been with me the last two weeks, as well.  We have a fresh perspective coming from both Scott and Nick.  At the same time they agree with my dad on every subject pretty much.  Those three out on the court, you hear the same thing all the time.  It's a little easier to say, "Oh," forget it.  When you hear the same thing from different guys, it sinks in.  That was kind of my thoughts. 

Q.  When it all came together?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  It's like they're saying the same thing in the same way, reinforcing it.  My dad doesn't have to say it every time to me.  I try to listen all the time, but it's sometimes difficult.  At the same time my confidence is getting better.  I'm hearing the things I need to do.  I'm listening and just doing it, working hard in practice. 

Q.  When did the light actually go on?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Well, I think actually this first match this week here I started out very well, started playing great, just started to feel good in practice.  I'm hitting the ball really solid.  Scott is a great guy for me to practice with, doesn't miss a lot of balls, very intense out there, keeps me intense.  Having a good time off the court.  It's a good feeling.  I'm in a good space right now.  That's part of it.

Q.  Did you actually look at film of yourself?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  I watched the match with Andre and I from the finals before I played my first-round match.  Might even watch it again tomorrow or watch the Moya match just to get a feel of what I'm doing out on the court.  Maybe watch both of them.

Q.  Will you freeze frame it at certain positions?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Well, it got rewound quite a few times.  There is dad, "See that," rewind, "See that," rewind.

Q.  Were you seeing yourself still moving forward?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Number one, we were looking at my serve, my tossing arm, which I brought down lower now, which is helping me bring the motion together, make it more consistent - not that I served great today.  But we looked at that.  Also my footwork at the net.  Why are people passing me so easy?  Thinking about when to split step, also when to take a little pace off the volleys, just learning those things.  Actually I've been thinking about it a lot off the court.  I've been by myself stewing over the different things that I've been doing, trying to pay attention a little bit more.  I think I'm much more focused.

Q.  You watched Blake today?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  I watched most of that match.

Q.  Aside from the fact you're a professional tennis player, did you get into it as a fan?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Well, you know, I thought it was good tennis.  I did think it was very good tennis.  None of the sets got very far, very close.  They were all pretty one-sided.  Somebody had a break pretty quick, except for the first set.  The first set was great tennis.  James is playing very well.  Lleyton is playing as good as he has been the last two years.  It was just unfortunate there in the fifth set.  Would have liked to have seen the American get through.

Q.  Why did you watch it?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  I like James Blake.  He's a nice guy.  He's an American.  I like to see Americans win.  It would have been good to see him get through that.  I'm sure he learned something from that match.  Lleyton is a damn tough player.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT