EUROCARD OPEN
October 29, 1998
Jan Michael Gambill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. You seem to have his number? 
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: I guess this year I have won twice against him. Some important
matches for me. I feel like today, he actually played a better match. He certainly served
a lot better than I did. I just scraped and did my best from the baseline; played a little
better from the baseline, but the tiebreakers, I guess, told the story. I played better
tiebreakers. He made a few errors. 
 
Q. In that third set, particularly second half of it, you increasingly were having
chances, they were escaping you. Were you beginning to wonder whether or not you would be
able to hang on and grab it in the end?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: I was just looking at my service games really trying to play tough
during those. I felt like I could win the grand stroke rallies even though I wasn't
getting any first serves in. I felt like I could win off my second serve; hit some good
passing shots; hopefully get to a tiebreak. He hit great serves. I did have the one break
chance where he had a long rally; hit a slice down-the-line. I should have gone
one-handed; played two-handed; made him play to the ball. Overall, I am happy with my
performance on baseline and net play. Serve needs a little work for the next round, I
think. 
 
Q. Did you make a conscious effort to get in more at the end? You didn't really get in
much before the last two games; then you really put the pressure on him?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: Yeah, that was part -- I have a little bit of a back problem. I
didn't want to play as long as I was playing. It was a little bit of a problem for me to
run. I was trying to put pressure on him to win the point quicker and he doesn't maybe
pass as well as some guys off of a good approach, so I wanted to put the pressure on him
especially at the end of the match there. 
 
Q. What are your tactics generally when you play him? You have been successful at
whatever it is.
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: I guess it is the same as when I play anybody else, I try to
return well and serve big and I returned pretty well today. I usually play a pretty good
groundstroke game. Tim didn't get a few first serves in on key points, but on other points
he was acing me left and right. I didn't know what to do. I don't know if I have ever been
aced that many times. How many? 
 
Q. 18.
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: Nobody has ever aced me more than that. He was hitting out wide to
my forehand a lot; that is a weakness of mine a little bit, and -- but just hitting the
lines with those serves, that is just too good when a guy does that. I was trying to stab
at a few and make him make a few errors. 
 
Q. Are you actually aware of the British fans that you have behind the umpire's chair?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: One of those is my mom. 
 
Q. Two other ladies are British.
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: Ursula is from Germany, but she is British. She is a big fan of
mine. She travels to a lot of the events. I love her support. She had a friend there as
well. So, it is great to have people you are familiar with travelling and cheering for
you. 
 
Q. At times do you actually miss them when they don't say anything because they seem to
be galvanizing you at important moments in the match?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: I like it when the crowd is rowdy. I like it when the crowd, you
know, goes out there and has a good time watching hopefully an entertaining match. That is
what we are there to do is to entertain the crowd there in the first place, I think, and
play some good tennis. When they get into it and they are rowdy, at least not during the
points, but after the point, it is more fun for me to be out there and more exciting to
play. 
 
Q. Do you like Davis Cup crowds?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: Absolutely. 
 
Q. There is a possibility that you will be coming to Britain to play in what hopefully
will be a rowdy tie there?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: Possibly. I know it will be rowdy whether I go or not. It is going
to be a big match. I know the Brits will be excited for it. It is going to be a tough one. 
 
Q. Tough one for you, your debut in the Davis Cup. Was it a thrilling experience?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: It was. It has always been my dream to play Davis Cup. There was
my chance and I went out there and gave it my best and was a little nervous, but it was a
great opportunity. Every chance I get to play Davis Cup, I am going to take it up. 
 
Q. Prospect of playing Pete, assuming he wins, what does that say to you? What do you
feel with that particular prospect?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: Oh, it is always a huge opportunity to play the No. 1 player in
the world and particularly Pete who may be the best player to ever play the game. Any
chance you get to play a guy like that, both to learn from and hopefully go out and play
real good matches, is a great opportunity. I played him earlier this year and played a
close match. I will be excited. 
 
Q. This time last year were you getting ready to play those Challengers in Las Vegas
and Burbank that Agassi played?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: I did play both of them. 
 
Q. You were on the Challenger circuit -- Challenger circuit this time?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: Partially, yeah. 
 
Q. This week last year, which was the week before Las Vegas and Burbank, can you
remember where you were playing?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: Yeah, I played the tournament in Puebla, Mexico. I am excited to
be here in Stuttgart.  
 
Q. Your ranking then would have been outside 200?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: Yep, outside 200. 
 
Q. Did you think when you played in that Challenger with Agassi that (A) he would be,
what, No. 5 in the world and you would be where you are?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: I don't think I have really thought about it that way. Probably I
actually did think more of how was he going to get back into the top and I knew he had it
in him. I didn't know him real well then. I do now. When he wants to play tennis, he is
one of the most talented guys out there, and it was weird to see him in the Challenger,
real weird. In Vegas I had lost 6 in the third in the quarterfinals and I would have
played him in the semis there. That would have been really weird for a Challenger. 
 
Q. What are your aims, if you like, for the next few month?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: Fix my serve, really going to work hard on getting my serve to the
point where I am winning a lot of free points again. I missed too many serves, in the net,
all over the place. My motion is not just quite what it was earlier this year. Keep
refining my groundstrokes and my net game and play a smarter brand of tennis which I am
actually starting to do better. Especially here. Relish the time that I have off, take a
week, go to Hawaii for a week, and take a little time off, but I actually have the chance
here in December, and then come back excited to play and ready to play and in the Hopman
Cup which will be my first event to play. 
 
Q. Do you think by this time next year you could be a Top-20 player?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: I hope so. I look to the game as always advancing myself and
bettering my game and doing everything I possibly can. Definitely something I am looking
forward to. 
 
Q. Had you set yourself a target this year? You knew you were going to be full-time on
the regular circuit.
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: I had wanted to be top 100 earlier this year, so -- 
 
Q. What is your mother's name?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: Diane. 
 
Q. Who is coaching you at the moment?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: My dad, Chuck. 
 
Q. You look as if you just climbed off a surf board? Do you surf?
 
 JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: I will go body boarding and I guess I go to the ocean a lot and I
love the beach. I wish I could surf. I think it would take a little more practice for me
to be able to really surf standing up on a board. I don't think I have that much
coordination yet. I will give it a try, though, when we go to Hawaii. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT