DAVIS CUP - ITALY vs USA
September 25, 1998
Jan Michael Gambill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Difficult debut, Jan-Michael.  You played awfully well. Why do you feel you lost? 
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Well, Bud, I don't think I played that well.  I don't think I served very well the entire day.  Way too nervous at the start, even though I won the second set. Really poor tiebreakers obviously. 
 

Q. It was a nervous start?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Yeah, I was a little nervous.  And just stupid, really wasn't moving very well and can't be very happy about that first set. 
 

Q. The tiebreakers, why were they so difficult for you?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Just didn't make the right decisions and didn't play the right shots.  He played some good tennis; hit some good serves and I didn't.  I hit all second serves in the first tiebreaker, I think, and you can't win like that. 
 

Q. Have you ever been so nervous like today, I mean, Davis Cup is something special?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  I don't think so.  I don't think I have ever been that nervous, but it went away after the first set so it is certainly not an excuse after that first set. 
 

Q. Can you talk about the eight matchpoints, I think you saved?  You really fought hard.  Did you think you could get it to a fifth set?   Obviously you were very close to doing that.
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Definitely.  I still was serving 4-3 in the fourth set and gave it back to him.  He didn't really earn that game.  I missed an easy volley at 15-All and just made some stupid errors.  Then got to a tiebreaker and just didn't quite have it. 
 

Q. Was there ever any point when you were saving those matchpoints where you thought, yeah, I am going to overcome this?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Yeah, I think so on every one, it gave me hope every time that I saved one and I put forth as much effort as I possibly could and did my best and it just wasn't enough.  Very disappointing. 
 

Q. Everyone says your first Davis Cup is one of the most  difficult ones.  Anything that surprised you or was it about as difficult as you thought it would be?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  No,  it was pretty much how I thought it was going to be.  The crowd was behind me and, you know, the crowd was great.  Everybody really wanted to see me win and just didn't quite have it out there.  But I guess it is a good experience, hopefully the next match I will come out and play better.  I will play better in the next match. 
 

Q. Speaking of the next match, if schedule goes as it expected, you will be playing Davide Sanguinetti.  Any thoughts on that at this point?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Not really.  I personally hope that we just win the next three and it is over with.  But if it comes with the fifth match, I will be ready to play. 
 

Q. Have you played Sanguinetti before?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  No. 
 

Q. What have you heard about him?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  You know, typical Italian, you know, grew up on clay and has great groundstrokes and serves fairly well.  I watched Andre beat up on him at the US Open so I know a little bit about his game. 
 

Q. What did Gully say to you at the changeovers, anything in particular that may have helped at different times, anything to try to calm you down?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  A little bit of both.  He has given me good advice, keep my feet moving and trying to help me with my serve a little bit.  Gully was great and he did help a little; he kept me going, especially in the third set:  "Keep trying" and it is helpful to have him out there. 
 

Q. Is there a defineable difference between tournament play which you have had a lot of in your life and Davis Cup?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Yeah, definitely.  I think this a lot more disappointing to lose this match then any that I have ever played before.  Even third round US Open, even though I had a great chance there, this is far more disappointing in my mind.  I am playing for more than just myself and doesn't feel great. 
 

Q. It is almost like a feeling of helplessness when you started out, with nerves and everything, you didn't win a game for a while, do you think "I hope this passes?"
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  No, I looked just looked at it as a bad first set; that is why you have three out of five, gives you a chance to really fight hard and I certainly evened it up after the second set.  So there is no helplessness out there, just -- I  don't want to take anything away from Gaudenzi, he played a good match.  He is a good player.  I feel like I could have done a few more things. 
 

Q. If you had to play two more, would you be more nervous or do you think the experience today will help you?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  I think the experience today will help me. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT