US OPEN
September 6, 1998
Jan Michael Gambill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Do you feel like you missed a serious opportunity here or do you feel like you just
went five with the French Open champion?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: Definitely missed a serious opportunity. I mean, I gave him the
match basically. I mean, he should never have broken me after I'm up 40-15 on my own serve
in the fifth set. He didn't do anything special.

Q. Double-fault in the tiebreak put you in a hole right away. What happened with that?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: I went for it. It was just long. I went for the serve. My toss
obviously wasn't in the right place. It definitely put me in a hole, a huge hole. I didn't
get out of it.

Q. You had the trainer come out there. Were you cramping or was it a muscle pull?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: I felt like -- I was starting to cramp a little bit. It was just
enough that I wanted to make sure that I did everything I could to stop it from happening,
if I could.

Q. When you were broken at the 40-15, you said, "He didn't do anything
special." What happened to your game? Did you get a little tight?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: Not really. Actually, I'm happy with my mind set at least. I just
missed some balls. I set the points up pretty well, and didn't execute the shots when I
needed to, you know, on a couple of opportunities, missing some shots long, going for a
big forehand and missing it long, which in the future won't happen. I'll make those balls.
But today, it just didn't happen for me.

Q. Do you give him some credit for hanging in there?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: That goes without saying. Moya is one of the toughest competitors
on the Tour. I don't have to give him credit; he has earned that credit. Yeah, he's a damn
tough competitor. But, you know, with all said and done, I think I made some errors on the
crucial points.

Q. What do you think you take away from a match like this? You had the fans into it.
Just the whole atmosphere.

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: It was a great atmosphere. I mean, it was really fun to play out
there. I had a great time. But I think I take away, you know, everything -- I learn a
little bit from every one of these matches. My serve really wasn't on the whole day, but I
was able to stay in the match and play tough. Over time, I started playing better and
better. Groundstroke-wise, I wasn't hitting very well in the first set, missing too many
shots. I learned a little bit. So hopefully I'll take away some of that stuff.

Q. Pretty clutch lob in the tenth game. Do you remember that one?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: Yeah, of course.

Q. Can you talk a little bit about that point?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: You know, I think that you can -- he is a pretty good volleyer,
but at the net he's a pretty lob-able guy. He closes real hard. I just seized the
opportunity on that point. I lobbed pretty well most of the day, I think.

Q. On the ball that jumped over the net, you had that point constructed just perfectly,
closed on the net, ball hits the net and jumps over your head.

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: That's just bad luck. You can't do anything about that. You can
get mad about it, but that's about it. It was a good shot.

Q. When you lost to Vacek at the French, you used the word "despicable" to
describe your performance. What would you use today?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: Definitely not "despicable". I really fought hard; I
gave it a lot of heart out there. I tried until the end. I would never call it despicable.
I think there's an enormous amount of room to improve on certain things, shot selection,
those kinds of things, but I definitely played a better match on the whole today. I
wouldn't even compare it to the French Open match there.

Q. Were you nervous in the tiebreaker?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: Not really. It's kind of funny. I should have been. Maybe I would
have played a little bit smarter on that second serve. Just went for the shots. Even on
that last ball, I was going for my shots. I saved myself a couple times in the previous
games on my serve. But, you know, I hit the ball pretty hard, but I missed some shots.
Didn't work for me in the tiebreaker. He played a good tiebreaker.

Q. Can you put yourself in a frame of mind where you feel that, although results are
very important, as long as you keep advancing, making progress, even with a loss like
this, it isn't the end of the world?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: It's definitely not the end of the world. A loss is never the end
of the world to me. I'm going to learn from this. He's No. 10 in the world. He's a great
player. You can look at it two -- I did play a pretty good match against him, had a lot of
chances. Should have served it out or at least given myself a chance to serve it out. But
nothing bad is going to come from this.

Q. Do you expect to talk with Gullikson soon or have you already talked with him?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: I spoke with Gullikson.

Q. Do you expect to be named to the team? Can you give us an idea?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL: I would hope so. We'll see what happens, you know, Gully and I
have been talking. I can't really say. But they'll make an announcement.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT