NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 12, 1998
Jan Michael Gambill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MIKI SINGH:  Jan-Michael is a 6-2, 6-4 winner this afternoon over Jim Courier.  He's advanced to his first Mercedes Super 9 quarterfinal.  Tomorrow he'll play Andre Agassi for the third time in about 30 days.  First question. 
 

Q.  Is that a good news thing or a bad news thing?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  That's great news.  I love playing him.  I've gotten beat by him twice in close matches.  Those are maybe the two funniest matches I've ever played.  I'm excited to go out and play him again. 
 

Q.  Will you do anything differently this time?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Hopefully, I'll serve like I did today.  I had 5-4 in the second set last time, kind of choked a little bit on my serve out there.  But this time, hopefully, I'll go out and serve big.  I think I clocked one of my fastest serves ever today, 139.  The thing said it.  I don't know if it was a mistake or not.  It also said 536, and I don't think that's correct  (laughter).  Just go out and hit the ball hard.  My game is a lot like his from the baseline, we both hit the ball hard. It will be a good battle. 
 

Q.  What have you learned from the first two times playing him?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  I kind of learned how he plays a little bit.  He likes to jerk you around the court. He is the master at that, probably the best guy ever.  He hits the little angle, gets you wide, gets you running all over the court, then he pounds you away.  You have to counteract the angles pretty well and got to hit the ball deep to stymie him a little bit. 
 

Q.  Coming in as a qualifier, how well did you think you would do?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  I didn't qualify.  I was a wildcard.  But I didn't really think about it.  I saw Philippoussis' name first.  I knew I had as tough of an opponent as anybody.  I just went out there, tried to play point by point.  It's worked well so far.  Got a little lucky in the first round.  It was a tough match.  Next two matches went great. 
 

Q.  The way things are going here, do you go back to the hotel at night and go, "My God, what's happening?"  Is  it that kind of thing?  Do you feel you were ready for this?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  I'm ready for it because of the past few tournaments, I've done pretty well.  This tournament is the biggest tournament I've ever done well in.  It still hasn't sunk in quite yet.  I'm just kind of riding the wave right now, trying to play my game the best I can. 
 

Q.  I think you're assured of at least $58,000.  What's the most you ever made in a tournament before?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  $58,000 (laughter).  Before that, I hadn't been able to break the $10,000 mark.  In the quarterfinals of most tournaments, the $300,000 purse tournaments is around $9,000 or $10,000 for getting that far. 
 

Q.  You played Andre in Scottsdale.  When, prior to that, did you play him?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  I also played him in the quarterfinals in Sybase. 
 

Q.  Where?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Sybase. 
 

Q.  San Jose?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  San Jose.  It was certainly funny looking at the draw when I first came in, seeing his name in my quarter again, after playing him twice.  I didn't really think that far ahead.  I thought it would be neat to  play him again.  Now I'm excited about the prospect of playing him tomorrow. 
 

Q.  Can he be like a measuring stick for you on your own game, how much you've improved?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  I think so.  If I keep playing him, he can be a great measuring stick (laughter). Play him every other tournament and see how I do. 
 

Q.  Would you look ahead to the French already with the shape you're in right now?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  After the win today, I will be straight into the French Open, I think.  I think I'm in the Top 100 finally.  So this was a very big win for me. 
 

Q.  But it's a different surface.
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  It is a very different surface.  We'll see.  I've got to be practicing on the clay a little bit before that.  There's about three or four claycourt tournaments in the States that I'm going to play before I go over there to the French. 
 

Q.  How well did you do before on clay?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  I'm 0-3 from last year.  Not very good.  I had a little bit of a rough time last year.  I wasn't playing half as good as I am right now in my own mind.  Mentally, I was nowhere near as tough.  Hopefully it will be a different ballgame out there to me, and I'll be better able to play on the clay.  
 

Q.  What made you tougher?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  One thing, I've added the one-handed forehand to my game.  That's helped me a lot on service returns.  On clay where you have to play longer points, you're running lot more, balls are slower, I'll be able to use the one-hander a little better.  I'm also serving a little better.  Even on clay I'm be getting some free points. 
 

Q.  Obviously you played well today.
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  I feel like I played great today.  In the first set, I think the return game, where I broke him in the last of the first set was -- kind of showed how well I was playing.  I hit some huge returns off of first serves and second serves and broke him very easily to win the first set.  Then I kept my head the whole time.  All my service games, never had a breakpoint against me.  Just served pretty well.  I haven't seen the stat sheet for how high my percentage was, but I think it was pretty high. 
 

Q.  I walked by yesterday and you were out there signing autographs for thirty-seven hundred 15-year-old girls, I walked by an hour later, you were still there.  How long did you stand out there?  How many 17-year-old girls are there at this tournament?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  I'll usually sign as many as  it takes.  You see the guys walk by.  I'm still new at it. Maybe that's why, but I feel like I need to sign them.  The fans are what makes the game, you know.  They're here to watch us play tennis.  They're here to get excited and get the atmosphere going, which I love to play in.  If they want me to sign their autograph, that's what I'll do. 
 

Q.  You were probably preparing for your match, but did you have a chance to look at some of Agassi's match?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Yeah.  I watched the last two sets of Agassi's match.  I watching Agassi because I like watching Agassi play.  I've grown up watching Agassi play. I've grown up watching Jim play.  It was hard to play him. I had to blank face him when he was against me there.  I always watching Agassi play.  I just love watching how he plays. 
 

Q.  So you think he's ready for you?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Yeah, he's -- right (laughter).  He's playing some good tennis.  He knows how I play now.  Definitely we both know each other's game I think pretty well after the last two times we've played. 
 

Q.  Style-wise, would you think there is an older player, a famous player that you have tried to mold your game a little bit after?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  I don't think there's a  certain player.  I think there's a few players that I modeled it after.  I'd like to think that hopefully one day I'll serve a little like Sampras.  I like how he serves, I like his motion, how fluid he is.  That's how I modeled my serve a little bit.  After him.  My groundstrokes are pretty unorthodox.  I don't know who hits them like me.  I like to hit the ball hard, like Agassi or Connors.  Hopefully my movement can someday be compared to Steffi Graf's. 
 

Q.  You said the other day that you like kind of a raucous atmosphere, that you enjoy the crowd involvement. Andre being as huge a favorite as he is down here, you're obviously going to have that tomorrow.  Do you feed off of that?  Do you kind of take that as fighting the whole world?  How do you react to that?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  It's never fighting the whole world.  I don't think they'll all be for Agassi tomorrow.  I may have ten people out there for me (laughter).  No, I love it.  I absolutely feed off it.  The more, the merrier.  It's going to be a packed house tomorrow.  I hope it's loud and crazy.  I just love that kind of atmosphere.  That's how I hope tennis evolves to. When the fans and players are having fun, it's intense, electric on the court.  It's a great atmosphere to be in.  This is what I've grown up wanting to do. 
 

Q.  Have you heard at all from Tom Gullikson?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Yeah. 
 

Q.  What has he said to you?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  I've been speaking to Tom Gullikson frequently.  I've been recently asked to play -- I'm a hitting partner for the Davis Cup team.  That will be my first experience with Tom.  That will be pretty cool. He'll be coaching me down there.  I'll be watching the Davis Cup team play for the first time. 
 

Q.  Has he talked to you since you've had the big wins here?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  I haven't spoken to Tom since this tournament.  I spoke to him quite a bit in Scottsdale. He had some very encouraging things to say.  Before Tom, I had worked with Nick Saviano lot at the USTA. 
 

Q.  Did you live down there?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  No.  At tournaments, when I go down there, Nick helped me a lot with my game. 
 

Q.  When you knew you were going to play Jim Courier, was that a big match for you?  Is he still a big name for you?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Absolutely.  He's a huge name.  Going out there against him, I've practiced with him  quite a bit, about two years ago down here at Mission Hills, we used to have a place here.  We played him quite a bit.  Since two years ago, I was in awe of him, even in practice.  Out there today, I think it helped me a lot that I had practiced with him before.  I was not quite as shocked as much as I might have been.  I always try, whoever it is, they're them, and I'm playing the ball, hopefully, not letting the person that I'm playing get in to be a factor. 
 

Q.  So it was very satisfying?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Yes.  That was a great match.  Felt like I couldn't have done much before. 
 

Q.  Is Colbert, Washington, going a-gah?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Actually, I like to say I'm from Spokane.  I hope they are going crazy down there. Colbert, we just moved there, it's just five minutes outside of Spokane, so I still say Spokane. 
 

Q.  How many folks in Colbert, Washington?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  That's a good question.  It's not a real big place.  But we got about 700,000 in Spokane. Getting to be a pretty big city.  Great city, I love living there.  Colbert, pretty rural area, country.  It's not more of a town, it's more of a suburb of Spokane.  Our house is like five minutes outside in the country of Spokane.  It's just nice.  We can go and be away and then come back and we're in the city.  Colbert, I guess I'm from Colbert, but   -- 
 

Q.  Do you feel any pressure because of a lot of tennis youth look up to you?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  No.  If I've become a role model, I think that's great.  I always hope that kids have somebody to look up.  Sports is big.  If kids play sports, then they're less likely to be doing other things that are negative.  Hopefully that would be great if they're looking up to me. 
 

Q.  Can you describe your backhand?  What kind of a grip do you use on it?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  I have two backhands actually (laughter).  Which one, this one or this one (indicating)? 
 

Q.  That one.
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  My backhand is pretty normal.  I just grab the racquet.  It's pretty much a normal backhand grip.  If I was playing like a normal right-hander, this would be my backhand.  I switch over and use usually a one-hander.  I switch my grip to this (indicating).  Actually, these two fingers aren't touching the racquet when I hold it.  Don't ask me how I hit that shot.  I grew up doing it.  I'd never teach it to anybody. 
 

Q.  Given the scarcity of great tennis players that have come out of the state of Washington, do you get any  comparisons or people mention Tom Gorman very much?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  People do mention Tom Gorman.  I have never had the chance to meet him or see him play very much.  I know he was a great player.  If I was compared to that, that would be an honor. 
 

Q.  Do you know what your schedule is this year?  You going to play LA?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  I believe I will play LA. That's the old Infiniti, now Mercedes tournament.  That's at the same time as Aptos, last year.  It was kind of a close-to-my-heart tournament, my first tournament win.  I was thinking about going back and playing that, so we'll see. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT