RCA CHAMPIONSHIPS
August 14, 1995
Jan Michael Gambill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Yeah.


Q.  How tough was it to come back after you cramped up, was it, yesterday afternoon?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Yeah.  In the fourth set -- right in the beginning of the fourth set, we had a break between the third and the fourth, ten minute break; I actually sat down for a while; that probably hurt me because my muscles were cramping a little bit and at the beginning I started to feel like I was going to cramp a litle bit.  By the end, I got up 4-1; actually playing pretty well for not being able to move very well.  And got back to 4-All, he won come games. 4-All, I hit an overhead; totally cramped my legs, both legs, couldn't even move, so they defaulted me.


Q.  Did you think for a while maybe you weren't going to take advantage of this wildcard to play today or.... 

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Yeah, actually I was rushed to the hospital after that.  Put I.V. in me, put two quarts of the saline solution and felt a lot better today.  But I am not used to playing a three out of five match.  I haven't played enough of those, and so was a little -- still a little tired when I played today.


Q.  When did you get up here?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  This morning.  Got here about 9:45.  Today we had to drive -- last night we started from about 9:30 in Kalamazoo drove here; only got part way and so drove another hour and got here this morning.


Q.  How did that affect you today after the cramps and this heat, was it similar heat to yesterday?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  It wasn't quite as hot.  It was about 125 on the court yesterday.  That is unbelievably hot.  Here, it was still very hot, but it was also just two sets and so I wasn't quite as tired, but I was tired from yesterday, so...


Q.  Where did you stay last night?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  An hour outside here.  I don't know what the city was.


Q.  Did you come down 31?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Yeah. 


Q.  Kokomo?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Maybe.  We just found a Comfort Inn.


Q.  Did that affect your mental preparation for this; not getting down here 'til too late?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Little bit.  I like to get to tournaments early; especially for my Tour event, I'd much rather be here a few days earlier and be preparing and practicing on the courts and everything, but I just had to deal with it.  Nothing I can do - the finals were yesterday.


Q.  Does that also kind of take away from being able to savor your first tournament a little bit because you rushed in here?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  A little bit.  But   I will hang around for a while; watch some watches and see some things that I do wrong in my game and practice a little bit.


Q.  First wildcard you applied for, have you been through any qualifiers or anything?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Yeah, I have been playing mostly Satellite and Challenger tournaments and I have been qualifying in all those tournaments.  This is the first real wildcard I have gotten into a big tournament.  I have gotten come wildcards in some main  draws and Satellites before, a couple of years ago, but not for a while.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT