NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 25, 2002
Jan Michael Gambill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  It was a tough way to go out after three sets of really high-quality tennis? 
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Yeah, it really was.  A shitty way to end the match, you know.  He played two good points to get me down love-30, and, you know, it's unfortunate.  I mean, I think I played a good match.   It's a tough one to lose.  
 
Q.  You feel he's turning the momentum a little bit in your series? 
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Well, no, I don't.  He's won the last three matches.  But certainly in the first two, I don't think I was playing as good a tennis.  This match was high-quality tennis from both of us.  I felt I had the advantage the whole time.  I felt I had the ability to win the points.  Whereas, you know, he was struggling a little bit more.  But didn't end up on top this time.  
 
Q.  Are you going to be in the final four to go to Houston? 
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Rephrase that question.  
 
Q.  Davis Cup.  Houston.  Final Four. 
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  I'm not playing Davis Cup.  Not this tie.  
 
Q.  Is that your choice?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  No, that's not my choice.  
 
Q.  Pat's told you?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Patrick obviously feels that there's better players than me to play this tie. 
 
Q.  You didn't have a conversation with him to try to smooth some things out?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  There's nothing to smooth out.  He thinks that there's better players than me to play this next tie.  That's very simple.  Whether I agree with him or not is irrelevant.  He's the captain.  
 
Q.  Off the subject just slightly, do you recall how you heard about the September 11th events?  Where were you?  How did you find out?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Why does people want to keep dredging that up?  I mean... 
 
Q.  It's a magazine article.
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Well, I mean, shit, whose mind is that not on right now?  I mean, it's on everybody's mind.  I was home, you know, thankfully.  It's the most horrible thing that I've witnessed in my entire life.  And, you know, I love my country as much as the next guy  - if not more.  This is very painful.  It's very painful that it keeps being dredged up all the time. 
 
Q.  One-handed forehand is really coming around. 
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  You know what's really funny about that actually is I've only worked on that two days hitting more topspin.  It's been too flat of a ball, I've been hitting it way too flat.  I've been struggling with my returns, they've been sailing.  Having a real tough time in rallies.  I was able to go over there and hit one good one, then I was stuck.  If a guy hit a good ball cross-court I was pretty much out of the point.  I worked really hard on hitting an open stance with a topspin shot  - something that's going to help me very much on the clay.  Give me a lot of room to improve out of that corner.  
 
Q.  What's your attitude during the clay court season?  You haven't had great results on clay. 
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  My attitude's to go out there and take it to these guys.  I think my game is, you know, if I stay injury-free, which, you know, having this next week off and taking some time to really do the things that I need to do to stay healthy, you know, I have as good a chance as the next guy to really make a dent in some of those events.  I'm volleying better.  I'm hitting that forehand, like you said, better.  I'm less inconsistent and more patient from the baseline.  One thing I need to work on more is maybe a little more fitness.  I'm going to run for the next two weeks hard.  I'll be in Hawaii next week and running on the beach every day, so... I don't think I could have much better preparation than that. 
 
Q.  Why Hawaii?  R & R? 
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Hawaii's where I go for R  &  R.  It's where I like to be. 
 
Q.  Which island?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Both Kona and Maui.  
 
Q.  Are you going to run up Haleakala?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  (Laughing.) Maybe the last day if I can maybe just make a dent in Haleakala, that would be interesting.  I don't know about that.  That's a good run. 
 
Q.  How about running across it instead of 10,000 feet up?
 
JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  That would be good for my lungs.  I'll try that (laughing).  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT