US OPEN
August 28, 2001
Jan Michael Gambill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions for Jan-Michael. 


Q.  Considering your close matches with Cedric in the past, were you surprised how quickly you were able to jump on him and take care of the match?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  I think I knew I had to go out there and I think I was trying to get off the court as quick as I could, if I could.  That isn't always the way it can happen.  I knew I needed to return really well, which is something I think I did very well today, really got on his serve well.  Knowing that my arm was hurting me, I just wanted to get out of there as quickly as I could.  I served pretty good for having some problems and not being able to play the last two weeks.

Q.  Could you talk about that injury, how it is?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  I guess I have some inflammation of the infraspinatus.

Q.  Point to it. 

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Back here (pointing behind the back).  It hits a nerve, goes down my arm.  It's pretty painful.  I pulled out of the last two events and was a little bit disappointed I had to do that.  But, you know, I knew in preparation for the US Open, which is the most important tournament of the summer, our Grand Slam, I wanted to play well, I needed to do it.  I still have some problems, but I've been working hard.  I think with one more day off, I'll play Thursday, I can go out there and play another great match.

Q.  The two-fisted forehand that you use, all your life?  How did you first really get involved in that?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  I started out with a two-handed forehand when I started playing.  I was just too tall and skinny to hit the ball hard like I wanted to, which is fun.  I hit the ball hard now, but it's always been fun as a kid to hit the ball hard, even if I missed it long or whatever.  I couldn't do it one-handed.  Gave me that disguise which a lot of people don't have.  When I turn my shoulders, it's pretty hard to see where I'm going to hit the ball.

Q.  Does it contribute to the problem, do you think, the injury?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Absolutely not.  The problem was in a match, I played Henman in the quarterfinals of Cincinnati.  I felt something happen there.  You know, just happens.  We play a lot of matches.

Q.  You seemed to have some trouble getting speed on your serve consistently.  You're using a slice a little bit.  Is that how it was working?  Do you try to compensate by placement?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Well, today I was, yeah, absolutely.  I think one of the things that I do very, very well always is place my serve.  I have the most aces on the tour.  I don't have the biggest serve on the tour.  That's got to say something.  So I do have good placement.  But I knew I had to have even better placement today and use that spin serve, which was actually going pretty slow out wide.  It was getting by him, throwing him off with it.  If that works, great.  I need it to work when I can't bring out the big gun.

Q.  Was it a relief not to see Chris Woodruff's name across from yours?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  I could do without seeing Chris Woodruff jumping at my returns and getting them all back, especially when I can't serve them huge.

Q.  Anna Kournikova makes so much money on her good looks.  How much have you been able to capitalize on that?  Is it very different for men than it is for women?  Do you think the gap is not that big?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  I think Anna Kournikova is definitely in a different league than me.  I think she's the best looking athlete ever.  I think I've had some opportunities, and I think some opportunities will still keep coming through that.  You know, my main focus is my tennis.  I'm playing better and better, at least on the hard courts.  I just want to keep that in my focus.  I like to work at other things, but it's so difficult to really have the time. 

Q.  Was there ever a time earlier where you took some opportunities, let it get in the way of tennis, or were you clear on separating the two?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  The hardest thing is when you start doing a lot better, then people are asking more and more of your time.  I've always been and continue to be kind of a yes man.  I like to do things.  I like to try to promote tournaments and help out where I can, try different things.  Sometimes it does get in the way of the tennis.  I need to find out when I need to say no, just focus on the tennis.

Q.  You're in a difficult quarter of the draw. 

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  I don't know if "pretty difficult" describes it.  I think it's the hardest - by far - quarter of the draw.  That's what a Grand Slam is all about.  I'm not looking forward.  I only know that actually because my dad told me who is in that quarter.  I don't look at the draw. 

Q.  That was nice of him. 

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  I don't even know who I play next round.  We'll go talk about it.  It won't be till Thursday anyway.  I'm just going to take it one match at a time.  That's how I play my best tennis.

Q.  Periodically people will complain about the fact there's no rivalries on the men's tour.  Do you feel it's important to have that?  Since there aren't, why do you think none have developed?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  I think it's very important to have those rivalries.  I think you can look at the best rivalry we have right now, Agassi and Sampras.  When they play, everybody is so excited to go out and watch.  They played so many times.  One guy wins one time, the next guy wins the next time.  That's been great, especially for American tennis.  I would love to have a rivalry with Andy.  He's my good friend.  On the court, it would be fun for us to go out and play in big tournaments, further in the rounds, keep having a chance to play each other.  I think that would be great for American tennis.

Q.  Do you think a friendship would help that develop or it would be an impediment?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  No, I think it would be great.  Andy and I are going to remain friends no matter what happens on the court.  We have enough respect for each other on the court and off the court that nothing would ever come between us.  At the same time I think it would be just good for our tennis.  I would thrive in an environment like that because if he's out there beating me up, or vice versa, I think we're both going to get better for us.  I think it would be better for our game and, like I said, American tennis.

Q.  He's had three titles this year, win over Pete, ranking is soaring.  You know him well.  In your gut, what kind of a champion do you think he'll be in three or four years? 

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  I think that Andy is a smart guy.  I think that he learns every day.  I think in my opinion he's mature beyond his years, both on the court and off the court.  He knows how to deal with press already.  I think he speaks very well.  I think he's a gentleman.  Those things said, I think he's going to be a true champion.

Q.  Chang was saying he believes that maybe when he won a Grand Slam at 17, that that was a psychological breakthrough for the other guys in his age group.  Do you see something like that maybe for your generation, too - if somebody breaks through, it might open some gates?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  I think the tennis just kind of rolls like that a little bit, definitely.  Michael Chang was the best quicker than the other guys.  He was better than Andre and Pete and Jim at first.  They sort of caught up to him.  But he always played great tennis.  Like I said, those guys  -- it wasn't really a rivalry.  Well, there was a rivalry actually between them all.  They all wanted to be better than the other one, I think, at least in their own minds.  Maybe they never came out and said that.  It was healthy for the game.  It's healthy to have that kind of environment.

Q.  So with that said now, you broke through quicker than Andy did.  Do you feel like you have to catch back up to him this year?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  I don't know if I need to catch back up to him.  I mean, I don't feel like  I'm in direct competition with the guy.  He's my friend.  I'd like  -- I want to keep getting better myself.  But it's good for the game.  It was good for me to have a guy, he's playing great.  Definitely it can help. 

Q.  Do you think there's so much talk about the generations and the change of generations in this sport because it's an individual sport, there's no team to hang on to, we develop our identity with the celebrities?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Well, it is a singular sport.  It's difficult.  It's very difficult to really help an individual succeed.  I think through the USTA or whatever the Federation is, to really say, "This is our guy, he's going to do it."  With a team, you can help so many others.  Yeah, I mean, when you see these guys moving along, it's sort of like they're not a team, but they are a team at the same time.  There are American guys that are doing so well.  They're getting a little older, which really doesn't mean anything.  Andre said it very well last night.  He said those are just statistics.  It's an individual sport.  They're not going to be ready to go until they're ready to go I don't think. 

Q.  Has Patrick given you any insight for Davis Cup?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Patrick and I talk about it all the time.  I'd like to think that I'm going to be on that team.  You know, with all things considered, you never know till it comes out in the papers, when he really makes an announcement.  You know, he's been a great help as a Davis Cup coach and as a friend, really coming to all our practices, a lot of practices, getting to know the guys who could be on the team very well, taking time that a lot of the other coaches or captains may not have as much.  I'm impressed with Patrick McEnroe.  I think he's going to make a great captain for years to come.

Q.  How important do you think your performance is these two weeks for that decision?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Well, I think it's pretty important.  But I'm going to focus on the US Open first.  When it's over, I'll focus on Davis Cup. 

Q.  Is this injury going to heal during this tournament?  Are you going to be able to bring out your big serve?  Is that something you can't really focus on now?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  Well, it's funny.  It's a funny injury.  Yesterday it felt great.  I came out and I was serving big in practice and it didn't hurt at all.  I came out today and, "Gee, this really hurts today.  Why?"  I wasn't that nervous.  I couldn't figure out why that would be.  When it starts hitting that nerve, one day I sleep on it a little bit wrong, whatever, it could hurt worse the next day.  Maybe tomorrow, the rest of the time, it will be gone.  You never know.

Q.  Is it affecting other strokes more than your serve or is it just the serve?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  The only time it's affected the other strokes is last week in Long Island.  It's harder hitting my groundstrokes.  I've taken all the precautions, doing the physical therapy, really making a major effort to get rid of it.  So I don't think it's really affecting the other strokes, no, not at this time. 

Q.  Question on Davis Cup.  Such a wonderful team competition.  Many say, especially in America, it's undermarketed.  What do you think could be done to help Davis Cup particularly?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  I think we could promote it a little bit better.  It's very difficult, at least the past few years we haven't had Pete and Andre play.  The people want to come out and see.  They have to understand that they're not going to play.  Hopefully they're going to want to come out and watch Andy and myself play, whoever we have in the doubles.  Maybe we could promote it a little bit better.  Billboards, that kind of thing.  That does help.  That's really my only suggestion, TV, that kind of thing, letting people know how important, first of all, it is to the American tennis players, just getting the word out really. 

Q.  How does it feel to be in a winner's press conference at a Grand Slam this year?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  It feels a lot better than having  -- at least the curse is gone.  It's tough, you know.  I actually thought about it before my match.  "Gee, let's get through this one." 

Q.  Are you a threat here or are you thinking you just have to play well these couple weeks?

JAN-MICHAEL GAMBILL:  I'm going to go out, like I said, and take it one match at a time.  I think I'm a threat to anybody on the hard courts, definitely.  I have as good a hard court record as the guys out here, better than most actually.  On the hard, I think I can win against anybody.  Let's just take my next round first. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT