NL DIVISION SERIES: MARLINS v GIANTS
October 3, 2003
Dontrelle Willis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  How much did it help you to be able to get on the field and face a couple hitters before you make your start today? 

DONTRELLE WILLIS:  I mean, it was good for me to go out there and get playoff experience, get some good hitters.  I think everyone's a little more focused as far as the hitters in the playoffs.  So it was good to go out there and just go against a great team in their opposing stadium. 

Q.  Last year you were at Pac Bell in the stands watching.  What are your emotions now that you're on the field pitching and starting? 

DONTRELLE WILLIS:  This is a blessing, you know, just coming from so far away, being able to play against a team I looked up against.  You know, it's just like me facing Oakland, I just got to go out there, just check my emotions, calm myself down, just go out there and try to throw strikes. 

Q.  Which games did you attend last year? 

DONTRELLE WILLIS:  The St. Louis playoff games.  I can remember one, Santiago hit a home run in I think the eighth or the ninth, I can't remember, and then another one. 

Q.  While you only faced three batters, you were up and down in the bullpen.  Did you do more work than you would have at a normal sideline session between starts? 

DONTRELLE WILLIS:  Not necessarily harder.  I just had to get ready a little faster.  You know, you never know, you know, especially if someone gets early contact, before you have to face someone, you kind of have to be ready for the batter you're supposed to face.  So I just had to get ready faster. 

Q.  Does having retired Barry Bonds give you more confidence in facing him? 

DONTRELLE WILLIS:  Yes and no.  He's a great hitter and he'll make adjustments to the opposing pitcher, you know, that's why he's had so much success.  But in that situation, you know, it was good to get a lead out because, you know, in that stadium, they're looking, you know, to start something, maybe get a walk, start a rally, what have you.  It was good to at least retire one guy. 

Q.  From your usual pregame rituals, anything different tomorrow because it's a post-season game? 

DONTRELLE WILLIS:  No, not at all.  Like I said before, I'll just try to go out there and take it as another start and just try to be as consistent as I can. 

Q.  There was some talk that you might pitch Game 1, instead you're pitching Game 4, which could put you in a possible clinch situation or staving off defeat.  How do you feel about that? 

DONTRELLE WILLIS:  Well, you're going to have to ask me about that tomorrow.  You know, I just -- I just want to go out there and to take it as another game, even though there's a lot at stake, obviously, every game.  So, you know, hopefully tomorrow I go out there just prepared to go to battle. 

Q.  How were your nerves on Wednesday?  How do you think they'll be tomorrow? 

DONTRELLE WILLIS:  On Wednesday, I was just focused on, just like I said before, you know, stopping the really, you know, even though they're looking to get somebody on, try to cause havoc.  I just wanted to focus on just getting the lead out.  And tomorrow hopefully it's the same way.  Hopefully I just want to go out there and kind of just downplay everything and kind of just try to execute each pitch. 

Q.  What about the idea of having possibly 60,000 people in the stands here? 

DONTRELLE WILLIS:  I think it's awesome.  I think South Florida deserves it.  And I never experienced anything like it, so I'm looking forward to tonight, you know, seeing the atmosphere, how electric it's going to be. 

Q.  Thinking back to last year in the stands, now you're pitching in the post-game situation as opposed to a regular season game, did you think about that?

DONTRELLE WILLIS:  No, because you never dream of being in a situation like this.  As a kid, you just want to pitch in a big-league game, you know, let alone post-season.  You know, that's something I never dreamed of personally.  But now it's a reality and I'm just going to have fun with it. 

Q.  As a member of the team, what do you feel about the possibilities of sweeping the Giants in the two games here? 

DONTRELLE WILLIS:  Well, you know, I'm just -- me personally, I just worry about each game.  You know, you never want to look ahead, especially against a team like this, you know, of this caliber.  You just want to take one out at a time, you know, and hopefully we're on top at the end of the day. 

Q.  Did you have decent seats last year in the stands? 

DONTRELLE WILLIS:  Top row, you know, third deck.  But in a playoff game, they're all decent.  You know, just being in that atmosphere.

Q.  How much did you have to pay for your ticket? 

DONTRELLE WILLIS:  I didn't.  Someone hooked me up with those tickets, so... 

Q.  Have you thought that there might be the next Dontrelle sitting up in the stands tomorrow in the same situation? 

DONTRELLE WILLIS:  I hope so.  You know, hope you can just inspire somebody, you know, try to do something positive, no matter if you do well or not. 

Q.  Growing up, were you more of a Giants fan or an A's fan? 

DONTRELLE WILLIS:  I'm from the East Bay, you know, so I was more of an A's fan.  But, you know, when they made it to the World Series and played Anaheim, I was a Giants fan.  You know, I'm always a Bay Area kid.  So, you know, whatever circumstances, whoever goes the farthest, you know. 

Q.  Can you remember as far as back '97, were you for the Giants against the Marlins? 

DONTRELLE WILLIS:  Well, you know what, it was the middle of the series.  I was kind of just like, you know, kind of split in half just because, you know, it was a great series.  You know, to win it on a base hit, I just remember the base hit.  I don't remember who was on the team and what have you.  But, you know, I was a Giants fan then, too. 

Q.  Did you admire certain pitchers when you were growing up? 

DONTRELLE WILLIS:  Yeah.  Dave Stewart, always admired him just because of his mound presence.  And basically how he took the ball every time and just tried to win for his team regardless.  He just kept getting after it.  And off the field, he was a soft-spoken guy but he carried himself like a professional. 

Q.  Do you have any idea how you're going to handle Bonds tomorrow? 

DONTRELLE WILLIS:  I don't necessarily think anybody can handle him.  You know, so I just want to just try to do the best I can, just containing him.  You know, he's one of the best players in the history of the game.  So you can't necessarily handle someone of that caliber, you know.  So I guess that's just a game-time decision. 

Q.  Have you talked to your mom since Wednesday about getting Barry Bonds out? 

DONTRELLE WILLIS:  Not really.  They're just happy I got in the game.  You know, they weren't expecting me really to get in the game because me starting Game 4.  So they're just happy I was able to play, you know, in the stadium.  Everybody got to enjoy watching me and stuff. 

Q.  How do you feel about the Rookie-of-the-Year possibilities? 

DONTRELLE WILLIS:  I'm in the post-season.  You know, I have to worry about, you know, doing the best I can for the team, you know, for this team right here.  That's something that's decided on you guys.  You know, if you guys feel I deserve the award, then I'll get it, if not, then I won't.  You know, that's as far as it goes. 

DONTRELLE WILLIS:  Thank you. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT