NHL ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 1, 2002
Chris Chelios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 

Q.  How strange is it to have loyalties, and then go back to your own team? 
 
CHRIS CHELIOS:  Well, someone's going to be happy and someone's going to be sad.  Unfortunately, you have to go back with the same guys and live with it.  That will probably remind you more of it.  Everybody is going to go do their best.  You're going to play one game, maybe two against your teammate.  There's a lot of ribbing early, but now it's getting serious.  The pressure, whatever you want to say.  The thought hasn't crossed my mind.  
 

Q.  With such a veteran roster, there's been talk about possibly being (inaudible) with a compressed schedule. 
 
CHRIS CHELIOS:  With our team, because maybe we have an older team, more veterans, he spaces things out pretty good.  He's always moderating time, take days off, practice.  The season is going pretty good for us.  We're fortunate to take the time off.  Right now I don't see it being a problem.  
 

Q.  Because of struggling offenses in the league, Mario mentioned maybe taking the red line out. 
 
CHRIS CHELIOS:  As a veteran defenseman, slowing down, I don't want to see the game pick up.  Obviously, that will open up the game.  I mean, how many rules can you change?  They could try it.  They should do it in this game.  They're going to try doing things.  There's not much you can do with the systems.  And how great teams can play defense, that's the difference.  People are just playing better defense.  If they take the red line out, they'll figure out some other way to stop it, play defense against that.  It's a tough call.  Hockey is won on defense.  You hear that all the time. 
 

Q.  Did you like it in Nagano when you were there? 
 
CHRIS CHELIOS:  There was a red line in Nagano.  This is the first time they've done this.  It will be a test to us.  We're not familiar with this at all.  
 

Q.  Can you characterize the kind of team that the US has going into Salt Lake?
 
CHRIS CHELIOS:  We have a lot of guys that are young guys, been through this since the World Cup, seven years, eight years together.  A lot of experience.  Like I said, even though the age, there's a lot of experience.  The guys have got to come together quick.  We've done it before.  Just a matter of hitting the stride, coming together at the right time. 
 

Q.  Who is Team USA's go-to guy?
 
CHRIS CHELIOS:  I hope it's everybody.  I hope everybody chips in.  Last time around we never hit our stride, never got our confidence.  It's going to take a couple guys to try to pull this in together quick.  Hopefully this will happen.  
 

Q.  Assuming you are in the gold medal game, who does Team USA have to beat?
 
CHRIS CHELIOS:  Everybody.  Any team is capable of winning.  We've seen that, especially in a single-elimination medal round.  Everybody saw what Dominik.  Not to take anything away from Patrick, but I've never seen a goalie play that well.  You hope you don't run up against a guy like that in that game, because anything can happen.  
 

Q.  Speaking of Dominik Hasek, can you give me three words to describe him?
 
CHRIS CHELIOS:  How many words is this:  "Out of this world"?  How that is (laughter)?  
 

Q.  (Inaudible) nasty, mean, dirty. 
 
CHRIS CHELIOS:  That's what they're saying about me?  Nasty, dirty, that's good (laughter).  
 

Q.  Mats Sundin?
 
CHRIS CHELIOS:  I'm not going to say nothing about anybody.  How is that?  
 

Q.  Mario Lemieux?
 
CHRIS CHELIOS:  One of the best if not the best.  He can play. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT