NHL ALL-STAR WEEKEND
January 17, 1998
Chris Chelios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  This Olympics could make another big burst in youth hockey?

CHRIS CHELIOS:  I think so.  I mean, that's what happened in '80.  You look at the number of U.S. players that are playing now, how it's increased over the past five, six years after that.  I think a lot of kids are playing hockey now, with the TV coverage we've been getting, getting better and better.  But now we have to take to it a higher level.


Q.  What are some of the stranger playoff superstitions that you've seen in the years in the league?  Facial hair coming off?  Anything like that that you've been a part of or done?

CHRIS CHELIOS:  Nothing I can remember, no.  I probably do things I don't realize I do, or do things I see other guys do.  But I'm not superstitious.


Q.  Do you see it become more evident during the playoffs?

CHRIS CHELIOS:  Not really, no.  You notice a  difference in the attitude of people because it means so much more, the playoffs, but otherwise not really.


Q.  If you could be anybody from history, who would you be?

CHRIS CHELIOS:  Dick Butkus.


Q.  Why is that?

CHRIS CHELIOS:  He's my childhood hero.


Q.  Are you worried of any sort of letdown or hangover from the Olympics, the rest of the regular season and playoffs?

CHRIS CHELIOS:  I don't think so.  Canada Cup is before the season.  You don't have guys in the best physical shape.  Now you're going to get people in the middle of the season, players at the top of their game.  I think you're probably going to see the best tournament ever.


Q.  Are you looking forward to the game tomorrow personally?  You've been to a lot of them.  Different format.

CHRIS CHELIOS:  Yeah, I like it.  I'm glad I'm on Canada's side.  Won't have to be looking over my shoulder this game.  It's going to be good.  I think it will be good.


Q.  (Inaudible)

CHRIS CHELIOS:  Like I said, everybody's here for fun.  It's going to be entertaining.  I guarantee you, it  should be a lot more competitive.


Q.  LeClair is having a great season.  MVP?

CHRIS CHELIOS:  He's got my vote.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT