NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP
March 21, 2015
Matthew Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We're joined by Matt Brown.   Matt, an opening statement.   
MATTHEW BROWN:   When you're a little kid you dream of hitting that grand slam in the ninth inning, and sometimes it's a bunt.   Still get the job done.  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions?   
   
 Q.   Matt, if you can, can you describe the emotions going through your mind when you're standing there waiting on that challenge, one of many challenges there at the end?   Were you getting worried that you were going to maybe cool down a little bit, have to go out and wrestle a another couple minutes?   What was going through your head?  
MATTHEW BROWN:   I was disappointed I gave up the late takedown, but felt confident I could get away still and tie up the match.   Had a tough ride, kind of just trying to get the time off the clock.   Once the challenge started I felt comfortable because I knew he locked hands, trying to point that out.   The coaches were saying be ready for overtime.   And I was.   And I feel I was confident.   We were both sweaty but going to go get that takedown.  
   
 Q.   Matt, can you talk about reaching that goal of being the first return missionary to win this championship?  
MATTHEW BROWN:   Pretty cool.   I didn't expect the match to end like that.   But that's how the ball bounces and it landed my way this time.  
   
 Q.   Do you remember the last time you won a match, if ever, on locked hands or a technical point?   And what are Cael and Cody telling you during the seemingly never ending span when the reviews are taking place and you have to be ready?  
MATTHEW BROWN:   I never remember winning a match like that.   But it's kind of fun in practice we do that all the time.   Morgan, big strong kid, trying to ride me and I'll drop down to a knee and so he has to let go as a locked hands.   So that's something I feel comfortable with, and coaches, like I said, just positive reinforcing that I can go get a takedown.  
   
 Q.   But you put your knee down; is that correct?   Did you kind of catch him into that position?   
MATTHEW BROWN:   I got him in that position.  
   
 Q.   So it was kind of like you set it up?  
MATTHEW BROWN:   You go down to your knees, you've got to let go.   I mean, you gotta be fast to let go of that.   Happens all the time.  
   
 Q.   You gave up that late takedown and there's 20seconds left on the clock.   You've got to get that one escape.   What's going through your head and just what was your mentality and your technique to get out of that?  
MATTHEW BROWN:   I was going to give it all I had.   This is my senior year with 20seconds left.   You just gotta have some guts and give your best effort.   That's what I did.   I got to my feet and like I said he was running me out of bounds and I was able to get the second violation.  
   
 Q.   Could you tell us a little bit how much your ROTC and Army training and the fitness you received there contributed to your wrestling career?  
MATTHEW BROWN:   Our coach preaches kind of do everything right, whether that's eating right or being disciplined, getting enough rest and working out hard.   So I think it all plays into coming out on top.   Our coach preaches do certain things every day and those little things make up for it in the end.   
And I felt like that did.  
   
 Q.   The four‑year reign snapped today and you're not coming back next year but you know better than most what you have in the pipeline ‑‑ guys like Nolf, Nickal, Rasheed and Zain and Nico coming back.   How good a hand is this program going forward and do you think another long run is possible down the line?  
MATTHEW BROWN:   Yeah, I mean totally.   They're a competitive class, and I had a lot of fun with them, though they didn't wrestle in the lineup, they were every part of the team and they worked out hard.  
And I'm grateful that I got to wrestle with them this year and I think they're going to be real tough next year.  
   
 Q.   Do you have some more wrestling in you?   I know you wrestled in the last Olympic trials.   There's one in less than a year or so, are you looking to try to make that team?  
MATTHEW BROWN:   Yeah, I mean, I feel comfortable with the Nittany Lion Wrestling Company I think they're the best freestyle wrestling club in the country.   I would love to take advantage that with Coach Cael.  
   
 Q.   What's the weight having this finish?  
MATTHEW BROWN:   It kind of feels like my first state title in high school.   You think about it too much.   Not worrying about school again.   But it's what you work for.  
   
 Q.   To follow up on the locked hands, did the coaches suggest that might happen or did you think about it upon yourself that it might happen?  
MATTHEW BROWN:   I guess the coaches really didn't say anything.   So I thought of it myself.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel it earlier?   
MATTHEW BROWN:   No, I didn't.  
   
 Q.   What was it like waiting all that time, crowd yelling, on again, off again.   What was going through your mind and what was that wait like?   Did it seem like an eternity?  
MATTHEW BROWN:   No, probably seemed longer for the fans but my coaches were there trying to keep me positive and ready to do this.   And Coach Cael said, you gotta get a takedown for the national championship.   How cool is that?   Any wrestler anywhere would take that.  
   
 Q.   You made a lot of movement in your career, first at Iowa State, the Mormon mission and back.   The commitment was to Cael Sanderson that made you wanted to do all that or was it something else?  
MATTHEW BROWN:   I think it was commitment to be my best and I saw that in a Coach Cael run program.  
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT