NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 22, 2013
Matthew Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   To my left from Penn State is Matthew Brown.   Matt, first question to you, did you notice when the lights went out?   
MATTHEW BROWN:   Yes, I thought it was very strange.   I had no idea what that was about.   
They said to keep wrestling, so that's what I did.   
   
 Q.   You said last year when you got to wrestle a little bit that one of your dreams was taken away to be a four‑time champ.   Now that you're in the finals, does it feel like you thought it would?  
MATTHEW BROWN:   For sure.   It's a great atmosphere, fun, just like it was in St. Louis, watching.   Glad I can be here in Des Moines wrestling.   
   
 Q.   Going back to the lights question.   It was noticeable, but did it throw you off?   Did you wonder what was happening?   Did it have any affect on the last period there?   
MATTHEW BROWN:   I wouldn't say it had any affect, but I noticed it only for a split second.   
   
 Q.   Before you went to Penn State you were‑‑ you actually went to Ames for one year before you did your mission; is that correct?   
MATTHEW BROWN:   I took my red shirt year at Iowa State.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the fact that you came back to Iowa and now you have a chance to win the championship in the state where you almost started your career?   
MATTHEW BROWN:   It's a little ironic.   I've flown in and out of Des Moines just going to Ames; but, I like Iowa, besides the cold winters.   It's good to be back.   
   
 Q.   Been in the mix all year, maybe not one of the front‑runners until the last several weeks, but now running through this competition, what's changed?   
MATTHEW BROWN:   I don't think anything has changed but some bumps that I took along the way helped to expose what I need to work on, and my coaches are excellent and they helped me figure that out.   It was a learning process, I would say.   
   
 Q.   Guys like Chris Perry, his name has been on the scene for a long time.   He's been to the tournament before.   Does that affect you at all?   
MATTHEW BROWN:   No, I'm happy that they spelled my name right on the bracket, speaking of names.   But he's a competitor and it will be a fun match.   
   
 Q.   How much have the people around you helped you in your‑‑ how much has the momentum of the team help you?  
MATTHEW BROWN:   I don't think‑‑ go through the lineup, where I'm stuck at is right between two champions, so it a great place to be.   
   
 Q.   Matt, what kind of improvement do you think you've had during the course of this season?   Obviously, you found a weight class you needed to be at.   
                       You're wrestling with some high goals.   What parts of your wrestling do you think are better now than when you started at the beginning of the year?   
MATTHEW BROWN:   I don't know if any particular part is better, but I have refined a lot of areas, my set‑ups to my finishes, even to my riding, they have just been tweaked a little bit and it's nice to see improvements.   
THE MODERATOR:   Matt, congratulations.   Good luck in the final.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT