ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS SCOTTISH OPEN
October 1, 2020
Scott Jamieson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. So when you looked out your window this morning, did you think that sort of score was possible?  I know you got the best side of it, but arriving here, I didn't see that score coming out, the scores this afternoon.
 SCOTT JAMIESON:   Yeah, it was probably unknown to most, you know, because, of course, from the practice days was a lot tougher than we saw last year.  And then I looked at the scores when I got to the golf course and realized that it obviously had been really tough in the morning.  And I think when it's wet and cold like that, the ball just doesn't travel far.  And then if you're in the rough, it's tough to move to ball far.
 And so for me, very lucky to be on that side of the draw today.  But there's a long way to go, and we'll see what the weather does.
 Q. So what happened today?  So I see here tied 9th, English Championship.  Coming in, I don't know, would you have waited for this?  Was this about to happen?  Are you surprised?  Tell us about that.
 SCOTT JAMIESON:   Well, I think pretty much everybody here is -- they probably earmarked this one and Wentworth since we knew there were still going to be the Rolex events and keep the parts that was meant to be at the start of the year.
 I think everyone probably recognized that this week and next week is probably going to define how good a season you have.  You could play well the rest of the tournaments, maybe not do particularly well this week and next week, and you don't get to Dubai.  But the same could be said the other way, you could not play well in those events and then play great in just one of these weeks, and you may find yourself in Dubai.
 So, yeah, nice to get off to a good start in what's a very big event.
 Q. Do you like the links challenge?
 SCOTT JAMIESON:   Yeah, I do.  It's something I grew up playing, played a lot of tournament golf and links golf and links golf courses.  I miss it, but we don't see it very often.  So it's nice to be back.
 Q. And finally, so an opening round of that quality in a Rolex event, that means it must mean a lot to you.
 SCOTT JAMIESON:   Yeah, of course, yeah.  Like I said, I think everyone has probably recognized that this week and next week is going to be pretty much season defining.  So this is where -- the idea was always to try and peak at this time of year.  So we'll see if we can manage it.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT