BRITISH MASTERS SUPPORTED BY SKY SPORTS
October 14, 2016
Scott Jamieson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Please tell us about a presumably satisfying second round.
SCOTT JAMIESON: Yeah, of course, yeah, bogey-free and six birdies, I would have taken that when I got out of bed this morning, and I'll take a couple more of them, as well.
Q. First day wasn't bad but what made the difference today?
SCOTT JAMIESON: You know, yesterday was tough, 3-under yesterday afternoon, I felt was a really good score.  And it's cold first thing, wasn't as cold as I thought it would be, so we got to play 12 or 13 holes with virtually no wind.
So that certainly makes things easier, one less element that you have to worry about and the greens are rolling superb.  It's October, but I have no idea how you get greens like this in October.
Q. Any particular highlight?
SCOTT JAMIESON: I was solid on the front nine.  Birdied 15 and 17 and 18 after the kind of steady start and then a really good par save on the 13.  Didn't hit a good tee shot, was in the bunker short after two and it was a tough up-and-down.  I holed about a 7- or 8-footer for par there and that sort of really ^  kept the momentum going.
Q. In general are you feeling pretty good, there have been some very nice weeks lately.
SCOTT JAMIESON: Yeah, I've been playing well lately, scoring well.  You know, tee-to-green can always get better.  Everything can always get better.  But just controlling it a bit better and trying to stay calm and relaxed.
Q. Have you had a chat with Marc Warren since Sunday, and is that on your mind, what he managed to achieve there to get the job done?
SCOTT JAMIESON: Yeah, I had a good start last week, as well.  It was on my mind last week after the first round.  But then it wasn't to be in the end.
Yeah, like I said, it's amazing how quickly this can change, but I've still got two big days ahead of me, so try to just keep doing what I'm doing and see where it takes me.
Q. Inspiration is probably the wrong word given that you are in decent form anyway, but when you do see that happen, does it give you a lift?
SCOTT JAMIESON: Yeah, of course.  We're great friends, and it's great to see -- I feel as though if he can do it, then I can probably do it, as well.  Hopefully that will be me this week.
Q. You haven't got any little gizmo like he bought on the Internet to make sure the game is better?
SCOTT JAMIESON: No, nothing like that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT