PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 9, 2014
Scott Jamieson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Scott, very well played, describe your satisfaction opening up in your first‑ever Portugal Masters.   
SCOTT JAMIESON:   I got off to a great start.   5‑under par through seven holes on the back nine, fancied my chances of getting on 17 in two but unfortunately went in the water.   But just tried to stay patient because I knew I was playing well and was able to finish off with two birdies there, which will make lunch a lot nicer.  
   
 Q.   Been a weird day weather‑wise.   Does that help to focus your mind even more sometimes?   
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Yeah, sometimes when the weather is bad, you don't let your mind wander, so you don't really have the opportunity to think too far in advance.   We said that with the weather, we reckoned it must be a new record for the amount of time the brellies have been up‑and‑down in the space of such a short time.   Yeah, definitely helped just keeping it one shot at a time.  
   
 Q.   Three missed cuts coming into this week, what have you found this week?   What really clicked as you started off on this assault on potential title here in Portugal?   
SCOTT JAMIESON:   It's hard to say.   I've changed my putter.   It's a similar style putter, something different to look at.   I feel like I've been playing really well for the last three months.   
Had a few Top 10s a couple months back, and hopefully, yeah, this will be the week that I can sort of capitalise on it because I feel tee‑to‑green, everything's been very good.   
   
 Q.   What clicked for you today out there?  
SCOTT JAMIESON:   I was just able to hole a few more putts than I have been doing recently.   Wouldn't say I've been putting particularly badly recently.   I'm just not holing the right putt at the right time to keep the momentum going, and I was able to do that today, and I played lovely tee‑to‑green with the exception of one hole.   
If I did miss a couple birdie opportunities, I was able to maybe pick one up at the next but it was an easy day as far as momentum was going, which I think for me really helps me if I can just keep it ticking over.  
   
 Q.   You made a good start to the round and that really formed the foundations for the whole round itself, didn't it?   
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Yeah, definitely, the 10th hole I had a really good 2‑putt from far away.   I've never seen it play so long straight into the wind and the pouring rain.   
So that kind of settled me down.   It was a nice putt for par.   Then I was able to build on that, made five birdies to get me going and kept going, really.   
   
 Q.   Last year you came first fly close to the magical 59; do you remember that when you go back out on the course?  
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Of course I am, I've never stopped thinking about it.   (Laughing).   In the practise round, I stood and hit the chip, sure I holed it this time.   I joked with my caddie, as well, after a few holes.   I thought, oh, here we go, get it today.   Be typical in that weather, as well.   But obviously that's a fairly elusive number, but at the same time, I was just trying to take it one shot at a time.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT