ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 13, 2014
Scott Jamieson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How does it feel securing a place in   The Open Championship?
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Yeah, delighted obviously.   I knew I had a chance starting today.   Then I got off to a perfect start.   Was quite hot on the front nine. 
Then the wind never really seemed to get up, so I knew I had to sort of keep pressing and keep making birdies.   Yeah, looks like it's just enough.

Q.   I think you take a place in The Open regardless, but to do it in such style must be all the more exciting. 
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Yeah, I did it three years ago, I think I got the last spot with a putt on the last and a similar story here.   Obviously I like leaving it till the last minute.   Just missed out an automatic qualifying to The Race to Dubai from last year.   I was unlucky 31 and I think Mr.Casey pipped me by a few thousand Euros by the end of the year.   Would have been a sore one not to get to go, so delighted to do it in the end. 

Q.   Sounds like it's been gnawing away at you?
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Yeah, I had it many my mind last year, it would be nice to start the year knowing the Open is in your schedule and plan around it.   But I'll take it anyway. 

Q.   You just have to adjust things now, with the young family as well, you have to break it to them gently that you're away for another week?
SCOTT JAMIESON:   They will be coming with me.   They wouldn't let me go on my own, which will be great fun.   Zoe, my daughter, she'll be six months next week.   So a good week to be a nice way to celebrate her six‑month birthday.

Q.   Do you relish the challenge of links golf?
SCOTT JAMIESON:   It's great fun.   We never get to play it.   You either get when the wind blows it becomes extremely tough or a day like today without much wind and you can really get after it.   Either way, it presents a good challenge and it's good fun.

Q.   How familiar are you with Royal Liverpool? 
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Never been.   I don't know what I'm going to do over the next couple days.   I will definitely try and get on the golf course at some point on Tuesday, maybe relax tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT