PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 12, 2013
Scott Jamieson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   This is not a question I get to ask very often, how does it feel, what are you feeling when you see your 59th shot track towards the hole?  
SCOTT JAMIESON:   I said to Richard on 17, I said, I really want to make a birdie here, got a chance at it going down the last.   I was hitting off the downslope, it's a little flatter, pitched just short of the hole.   Quite a chip, as well.   
   
 Q.   When did the No. 5 and 9 enter your head?   
SCOTT JAMIESON:   I think I birdied the 13th, the par3.   I said a few more and we can be part of history.  
   
 Q.   Describe the emotions that you could be part of history over the closing holes.   How much more nervous are you than a normal good round?   
SCOTT JAMIESON:   A lot more.   I was definitely nervous, but‑‑ well, thinking about it from the tournament point of view, the leaders are going to be probably minimum, 17, 16, maybe 18 going into tomorrow, so that sort of kept me going.   
And then, yeah, just delighted with the putt holed on 17, so had a chance coming down the last.  
   
 Q.   Was there any sign this sort of round was coming?   3‑under par after two rounds didn't look it to us?  
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Played really well the first day.   Got nothing out of it really.   5‑under, and maybe the longest putt I holed was eight feet for par on one hole.   Felt like I have been playing well for a while, a few good rounds; Dunhill was good, and then yesterday, didn't necessarily play poorly.   Just didn't score well.   Had a couple of loose ones in there.   So, yeah, it was nice.   
   
 Q.   The way the course is set up and the way the pins are placed, do you see others going low?  
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Yeah, early this morning, there wasn't much wind.   If the wind picks up, that would do me a favor.   
   
 Q.   Excited?   Anxious?   Nervous?   Adrenaline going?   
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Right up there with the playoff earlier in South Africa when I managed to win.   Yeah, just delighted that I could keep making the birdies coming down the stretch when you know it was on the line.   
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts when you're on the fairway on 18?   
SCOTT JAMIESON:   The tee shots are hardest, with the wind and water off the left, most right‑handed golfers, it's their nemesis.   To hit one down the middle was a relief and I hit a great shot into the last.   Just pitched on a downslope and ran on.   Yeah, the chip looked awfully good.   
   
 Q.   How close did it come from your perspective?   Did you think it was in?   
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Yeah, a foot out, I still thought it had to break some more, but unfortunately just hung on the lip and just passed the hole.   But 60's not bad.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT