ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 27, 2013
Scott Jamieson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How does that score compare?   
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Good.   I've been playing really well over the last month, and not really felt like I've been getting much out of it.   Last week was the best I've played in a long time.   Just for some reason I couldn't play the last four holes last week.   Didn't really fit my eye obviously.   And if I take them out, then I played‑‑ I made enough birdies to win the tournament last week.   
Then yesterday, I got off to a flying start and then just had a bit of a mistake on 18 which is my ninth hole.   Killed my momentum in the middle of the round, but today was great.   Got off to a good start and just kept on going.   
   
 Q.   Did you sense something special?   You had a very good start to the season?  
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Yeah, I'm definitely playing good golf again.   Been frustrating the last few weeks playing better but not necessarily getting great scores.   So hopefully there's some good stuff on the horizon.   
   
 Q.   Good weekend and the Seve Trophy next week‑‑  
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Yeah, any week, obviously you want to do your best, but to play well in that environment can't do you any harm.   
   
 Q.   You played well last time.   
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Yeah, I remember being nervous.   I was okay I think the first day, first two days.   I think I played with Ross Fisher and I played with Ross a couple times that year already, so that wasn't too bad.   But then playing with Westwood on the Saturday, that was‑‑ that got my attention.   
   
 Q.   Did it help you?   
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Yeah, completely fine.   I think he could tell I was a bit nervous, but I had not really had many bad shots, but maybe just a bit uptight.   But I think he said something to me after the third and fourth hole.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.).   
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Had quite a big lead in the front nine, and he came back, I think was 5‑up through ten holes and he came back with some birdies and eagles to bring it back to, I think he got to back to 1‑up, and then I made a birdie around about the 14th hole, maybe 15, to get 2‑up with three to play and that gave me a bit of breathing room again.   
   
 Q.   Is that the most nervous you've been on a golf course?  
SCOTT JAMIESON:   No.   
   
 Q.   When was it?  
SCOTT JAMIESON:   The one‑‑foot putt to win the tournament in South Africa.   (Laughter).  
   
 Q.   To be going back to the Seve Trophy with three other Scots, such a great spotlight from a Scottish point of view?  
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Yeah, it's nice we all made the team.   Almost could have had five in if Martin Laird was a member.   But then it is Great Britain and Ireland, so Scotland should make up a large portion of that.   
   
 Q.   Have you spoken with Sam much over the years?  
SCOTT JAMIESON:   The last couple of years we've come across each other a bit, been known to have a quick conversation with him.   Looking forward to getting to no he him better next week.  
   
 Q.   Paul McGinley was your captain last time, how impressive was he?   
SCOTT JAMIESON:   I thought he was really good.   You know, obviously we all know how to play golf.   That's why you get in these teams.   So it just becomes a case of man management after that, because everybody's their own‑‑ they have got their own way of preparing and he was great at allowing us to do what we wanted to do, and I think he let everybody know what he thought their particular role was on the team.   
He was great with me.   That was my rookie year, and he just helped me, just explaining that the week was all about experience and take what I can from it and use that in the future to your advantage.   
   
 Q.   The great start you made, thought it was going to be hard to keep that going but with the big events coming up at the end of the season, nice to have a strong finish as well?   
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Yeah, some really big events coming up.   I'll get into three out of the last four as things stand, so there's a lot of money to play for, that's for sure.   
   
 Q.   What's the one you don't get in?   
SCOTT JAMIESON:   The HSBC.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT