VOLVO GOLF CHAMPIONS
January 11, 2013
Scott Jamieson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  PAUL SYMES:   Very well played, what is it about rain in Durban for you? 
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Yeah, not so sure, but rain for a couple more days and maybe that's a good thing for me.
PAUL SYMES:   Obviously the confidence that you get, as well, is all‑important; I guess you would go along with that.
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Yeah, definitely comfortable in this environment.   In terms of the quality of the field, this is certainly deeper than what I managed to win with, but all you can do is play the golf course and definitely want to go higher after winning. 
PAUL SYMES:   What were the highlights today? 
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Yeah, got off to a good start.   Birdied three out of first four, and then just was very steady.   Hit a lot of greens and had quite a lot of shots kind of inside 15 feet and was able to take advantage of the majority of them. 

Q.   Can we have the details of the back nine birdies, three in a row and then 17, as well? 
SCOTT JAMIESON:   13‑‑ I hit driver off the tee.   Didn't get very close to that green.   Hit driver off the tee just short of the green and chipped up about six feet and holed the putt. 
And next is the par 5, I hit one in two, and 2‑putted from about 20 feet. 
15, I holed a good putt.   Had 6‑iron probably 25, 30 feet.   I holed that putt. 
17 was about ten or 12 feet. 

Q.   You got back to the Vivendi Trophy and we how well you played there and how comfortable you were; does that help in an event like this, given the select nature of the field?
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Yeah, absolutely.   I think every piece of experience I've had up until this point always helps.   You're trying to learn something every day, and of course that was a massive learning curve for me playing there in amongst those guys. 
There were some real good players that week, as well as playing in Dubai, the Dubai World Championship twice there; and managing to win, also, is something that you have to learn how to win.   Just little bits of experience everywhere can hopefully build you into a better player. 

Q.   A long way to go, but if you can win again here, would you maybe consider buying a second home in Durban?
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Yeah, well, we'll see about that. 

Q.   When you won last month, which got you into this, what would you have been doing this week otherwise? 
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Probably what I did last week, which was practice for this week.   I was actually in Florida last week.   My wife's American, so I was in Florida last week visiting her family.   So I was meant to be there until Tuesday of this week.   So it was a nice change to have to make to come play here. 

Q.   Did you think about staying there‑‑
SCOTT JAMIESON:   No, there was never any question of me staying, just changing the flight.

Q.   A lot of guys have probably had five or six victories‑‑ is that something‑‑ playing these two days?
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Yeah, I would say so.   I'm not sure if Thongchai is or not, so, yeah, for me, two weeks off seems like quite a long time.   I always get itchy feet sitting at home and you kind of have to force yourself up to practise for a few days before you go into the tournament. 
Yeah, six weeks off would be difficult to come back to, and that's why I think a lot of the guys here is because know they are getting four rounds under their belt.   

Q.   You played in the Nelson Mandela and your wife during the rounds was giving some inspiration; will that happen here?
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Yeah, she's here.   I'm sure we'll go out for a nice dinner again and just be normal. 

Q.   For the last few holes, you got a taste of things to come tomorrow in terms of the noise and music and stuff like that.   How difficult is that going to be?   Do you just have to try and switch off? 
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Yeah, I think once it comes to‑‑ once you're ahead, you manage to get in the zone.   My tee shot on 18, the music had been on for a while and right before I pulled the trigger came off; it probably took me off more than if it had been silent and then started.   But you manage to put is in the back of your mind.

Q.   Scottish golf is on a high at the moment; can you put your finger on that?   Is it just individuals working hard on getting results? 
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Yeah, I believe so.   I think there is a feel‑good factor and we all kind of play our practice rounds together.   So you know, if you see someone else having some success, maybe you think, if he can do it I know I can do it.   There's maybe a bit of that.   But I think we all work hard at home and are all just striving to get better and better. 

Q.   Do you think the rain made the greens a lot softer and how different is it from yesterday?
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Just the fairways were softer.   The greens weren't necessarily much softer than yesterday.   They were maybe a fraction slower but not a huge difference. 

Q.   With a win under your belt at the end of last year, what goals do you set for this season?
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Before I won last year, my goal was always to get into the Top‑100 in the world so I could play the PGA at the end of the year, because before I won, I think I was at 160 or 170.   I was 101 last week.   I don't know what will happen this week. 
The goal is I just want to play more events like this where there's limited fields, no cuts; they are quite nice (laughter).   Yeah, just for me, it's all about the World Ranking now.   My schedule might change slightly now based on strength of field than necessarily the money that's up for grabs and things like that.   Just climb up the World Rankings as quickly as possible. 
PAUL SYMES:   Thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT