ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 17, 2019
Scott Jamieson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  That's a great second-round 66 and you got off to a very fast start with those four birdies in a row early on.  
SCOTT JAMIESON: Yeah, that was nice.  A fast start yesterday and a fast start today, so yeah.  If that keeps up, I'll be happy.   
 Q.  What's been the key to the opening two rounds shooting low around this golf course for you?  
SCOTT JAMIESON: I think both days, the front nines I drove it well and putted well, and then yesterday on the back nine I struggled a little bit off the tee, which makes it a lot harder.  The greens are softer this year than what they have been previously.  There's still opportunity for birdie even if you are off the fairway.   
 Q.  A little bit more breeze today that may pick up as the afternoon goes on.  Is that going to make it a lot more difficult for the later starters today?  
SCOTT JAMIESON: Yeah, I think so, yeah.  Hitting the fairways is always tricky here, I think.  They obviously change direction between 280 and 300, so you've got to get your lengths well going off the tee.  So yeah, a bit of wind is going to be a bit harder.   
 Q.  Obviously it was a difficult year for you last year, but you got off to a great start this year, Alfred Dunhill tied third and a good finish here.  How nice is it to start the season in positive fashion?  
SCOTT JAMIESON: Yeah, yeah, I've got a nice record in South Africa, so I'm always keen to get back down there when I can.  So yeah, that was a great start.  And then two good rounds to open here.  Still a long way to go.   
 Q.  You started with four birdies in the first five holes.  What was the key to that?  
SCOTT JAMIESON: Probably the second I got a little lucky with my second shot.  I thought it was maybe in some nasty lie, but it wasn't, and was able to capitalise with a birdie, and just kind of pressed on from there, holed a couple nice putts.   
 Q.  2-under from there in.  What was the key to the rest of the round?  Did you play particularly well?  Were there missed opportunities?  
SCOTT JAMIESON: There was a couple missed chances but nothing glaring.  Yeah, it was just kind of steady away.  When I was out of position, I just made sure I kind of hit the middle of the green and took my chances from there.   
 Q.  Your newborn child had heart surgery when it was just a few days old in October.  How is he doing now?  
SCOTT JAMIESON: He's doing excellent now, thank you, yeah.  He's gaining weight, and he enjoys his milk, so yeah, we're delighted.   
 Q.  Obviously at the end of last year you were 109th in the Order of Merit and you were battling for your card at the same time that was going on.  Has the pressure of that situation improving allowed you to go out and get a great start to this year?  
SCOTT JAMIESON: Well, I think I'm certainly probably in a freer place mentally than what I was obviously with things going on at home and my situation on the Order of Merit.  So yeah, it's nice to be out and start a new season.   
 Q.  Excited about the possibilities this year?  
SCOTT JAMIESON: Yeah, of course.  The start of every season is like that.  We're off to a good start, so hopefully I can keep it going.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT