DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 22, 2012
Scott Jamieson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How do you reflect on that today?   
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Yeah, it was a great start.   Played very well.   A lot better than my first round last week.   So it's nice to get out of the blocks with a good one.  
   
 Q.   Given that start last week, presumably you've been working hard in the meantime to make sure it didn't happen again?  
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Yeah, it's been strange, the golf‑‑ I'm sure I've said it to you before, it's such a fickle game, you're a fraction out and you don't know when your next good score is going to be.   It was nice to get it back on track today.   Looking forward to it.  
   
 Q.   Nice to be here, some edgy moments last week as you slipped down that board?  
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Going into last week, I was pretty comfortable, but then after the two rounds and I saw who had made the cut and who is doing well in the tournament and in South Africa, as well.   Yeah, spent most of Sunday morning, certainly, watching the boards.   It was quite excruciating but glad to be here.  
   
 Q.   What's the course like with the overnight rain?   
SCOTT JAMIESON:   It's playing exactly the same.   Once or twice, a little mud on the ball on the fairways, but the greens are quite soft here in practise, as well.   So they are much the same today.   The course is excellent, great shape, and I think without any wind yet, there's definitely room for some low scores.  
   
 Q.   Did you see and experience the rain?   
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Did I   ...  
   
 Q.   Were you here?  
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Yeah, driving in the car this morning.   I felt like I had woken up in Scotland.   Got to the course and for about five minutes in the rain but then it started warming up and died away nicely.  
   
 Q.   How will the score stand the test of time today?  
SCOTT JAMIESON:   I think there will be a lot of people between sort of 3‑, 4‑, 5‑under.   Without the wind and the greens being as good as they are, you can shoot some low scores.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT