BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2012
Scott Jamieson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  SCOTT JAMIESON:   Eagle to finish is something we would like every week.   I played well all day to be honest.   Just felt as though I was knocking on the door for something to kick on and get one or two, 3‑under perhaps, and just didn't really happen for me until the last four holes, which is great.   
   
 Q.   Presumably knowing this course and the way the changes have taken shape, you know that the possibilities are there when you close.   
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Exactly.   So that can help you stay patient during the round.   You know you're finishing with two par 5s, both of which if you have got a good tee shot away, you can reach the green, so there's a chance of eagle and so you can really turn a poor score into an average score and an average score into a great score with a good finish.   That's what I managed to do today.  
   
 Q.   Patience is obviously a key word just about every week, but did I hear you saying that all the more so you have to be patient, and perhaps changing it just a little from last year?   
SCOTT JAMIESON:   I think so.   I didn't have a great weekend here last year after being in a good position.   If you start getting aggressive and chase after it, if you get off to a bad start, it's not a good idea, and I learnt my lesson last year, so hopefully if a bad start does come up over the next few days, then I'll be able to just sort of dampen down the amount of damage.   
   
 Q.   Presumably you took a lot of positives out of last year and indeed coming back here with those thoughts in mind?  
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Yeah, this is obviously the Flagship Event, so it's something you think about this one all year, and if you're to win an event, then it's this one you dream about winning.   
So I think the last two weeks off, I spent a lot of time just trying to think about this week and get myself really up for it.   And then that motivates you to practise harder, and just get everything prepared properly.   So I've been looking forward to it, so I'm glad I got off to a good start.  
   
 Q.   Sounds like you felt the benefit of that break, as well, coming back from Asia?  
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Yeah, three in a row, and then going to Seville, I always knew it was going to be tough, and with jet‑lag.   I try never to play more than three in a row either.   I knew that was going to be tough but I had not been to any of the ones in Asia or Seville.   I thought, better go and have a look.  
   
 Q.   How do you feel the game is in general terms, not only today?  
SCOTT JAMIESON:   I feel as though I've been playing really well this year.   I've had one good finish, Qatar was 12th, Dubai was fifth.   Apart from that, there's not been any big highlights like perhaps there was last year, made a lot more cuts and been a lot more consistent but haven't gotten any fireworks going but maybe this is the week.   
It's just a great venue, this place, and it's a very fair golf course.   It rewards good shots.   So looking forward to the next few days.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT