OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 10, 2012
Scott Jamieson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  SCOTT JAMIESON:   Played very well again.   Didn't get off to the best of starts.   I think the Back 9 is slightly easier than the front nine, so I started in the back today and didn't really take advantage of the par‑5s, but managed to have a really good Back 9, so it was good.  
   
 Q.   And while the wind picks up a little during the afternoon, it's not really hugely significant, is it?  
SCOTT JAMIESON:   No.   It was never more than a one‑club wind.   Sometimes it can be to your advantage as well.   
So no, it was nice that it kept it slightly cooler.  
   
 Q.   I gather this is your first time to actually play in a competition out here?  
SCOTT JAMIESON:   At this course, yeah.   I played the Dubai World Championship, but yeah, this course is a great setting and there's some big names playing, so it's great to be here.  
   
 Q.   I presume it's one of those tournaments that's element become iconic, hasn't it?   You know the Desert Classic from years back.   
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Yeah, that's right.   It's been around for a long time on the same golf course, so it's one you remember in your head from watching it on TV.   
So yeah, it's just fantastic to be involved.  
   
 Q.   Do you have an earliest memory of seeing it and thinking one day?  
SCOTT JAMIESON:   I can't remember the first time I ever watched it, but I just always remember this is the one Tiger came to play, until this year.   But yeah, I can always remember the 18th hole and there was some dramatic finishes there, so hopefully I'll be involved on Sunday.  
   
 Q.   I'm sure now you can actually believe what they've said all the years about the pristine conditions and the way they treat people.   
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Yeah.   It's in unbelievable shape.   The greens are just absolutely perfect, and the whole course is manicured perfectly.  
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts going into the weekend in this fine position?  
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Just more of the same, hopefully.   Like I said, I think I'm swinging pretty well, so if I can continue that and hole some putts, then I fancy I'll be right up there.  
   
 Q.   And you feel competitive again, because it's a little while since you've been right at that top?  
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Yeah.   Again, I had a good last two rounds last week.   I had just one bogey in the second round and third round I only had one bogey for the two rounds and no bogeys yesterday and only one today, so I think the winter rust has worn off.   So hopefully no bogeys over the weekend.  
   
 Q.   And instead of winter rust, there's a lot of summer sun on your arms.   Boy, you caught the sun.   
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Yeah, someone said you must be the brownest Scotchman there is.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT