OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 9, 2012
Scott Jamieson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  SCOTT JAMIESON:   Yeah, it was great.   It was probably one of my best ball striking rounds ever, hit a lot of shots really close.   Didn't hole many particularly long putts, but holed out well, so they all lighted up in the end.  
   
 Q.   Give us a couple of highlights that made you think this could be my day.   
SCOTT JAMIESON:   The par 5, the 12th, 13th.   I hit driver, 3‑iron into about eight feet and holed it, holed it for eagle there.   At that point I felt as though it could be a low one, so that was a good one.  
   
 Q.   Have you felt this has been coming?  
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Yeah, played nice the last two rounds last week, played a lot better, felt a lot better with my putter as well.   
So I feel like there might be some good stuff.  
   
 Q.   I guess there was a time where we haven't spoken to you for a little while.   
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Yeah.   Definitely tailed off a bit at the end of last year, so it's nice to be back.  
   
 Q.   Is there any reason for it?  
SCOTT JAMIESON:   I think I probably played a little too much right between the middle of the season and maybe lost a little bit of hunger, because you're out week in, week out.   Sometimes a week off ‑‑ when you have a week off you kind of want to be back out there.   So I think I missed out a bit toward the end of last year.  
   
 Q.   And the obvious followup to that is have you learned your lesson?  
SCOTT JAMIESON:   I think so, yeah.  
   
 Q.   Time will tell.   
SCOTT JAMIESON:   Yeah.   I'm going to try to schedule slightly different this year, so we'll wait and see what happens.  
   
 Q.   Have you mapped out an ideal course for the season?  
SCOTT JAMIESON:   I've got a fair idea, yeah.   Not to play too many in a row.   You know, the way you travel and stuff like that as well.   But it can all changes.   It changes week in, week out.   If you have a good week, then you might have commitments to other tournaments that maybe you don't know you were getting in.   So yeah, we'll wait and see, but I've hopefully learned my lesson from last year.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT