ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 27, 2011
Scott Jamieson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MICHAEL GIBBONS: Thanks for joining us. I suppose, go back to Vivendi for most of the guys, Bernie was the only one there, talk about the experience that was for you and where it's going now.   
 SCOTT JAMIESON: Yeah, that was brilliant, just to be a part that have team, first of all, was great. And to play with world No. 2 Lee Westwood there, Darren Clarke, Ross Fisher, guys who have played a Ryder Cup or two. Just to be rubbing shoulders in close quarters with those guys was fantastic.   
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: A sense that you're on a level to that ascent?   
 SCOTT JAMIESON: Getting on the team one was thing and I performed pretty well, too. That was quite satisfying to perform on a high level and hopefully kick on, time will tell. Looking forward to this week.  
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Thoughts on this week, very special week and unique week.  
 SCOTT JAMIESON: Yeah, different from the usual format but any time, whether you're playing in a tournament or not, you come to this place here, home of golf, it's always special.   
  
  Q. Could helo if he is Captain in 2014?  
 SCOTT JAMIESON: Yeah, I mean, obviously playing well for him a couple of weeks ago was great. You know, first and foremost have to play well for myself and if I do, that that should take care of plenty of other things.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about his qualities as a Captain?  
 SCOTT JAMIESON: Yeah, I think he'll be excellent. You know, from my point of view, being a rookie, you know, he told me at the start of the week, everybody is going to have different roles to play, so he explained to me what he thought I should get out of the week and how I should approach the week, which made it a lot easier for me in terms of then going out and competing. So he was -- you know, from a personal point of view, I thought he was outstanding.   
 From 14 onwards he followed me. I knew that at that point that the scoreboards roundabout the 14th, I realised that I was going to have to win. He never said anything to me, like you're going to have to win, but the fact that he was walking with me, I knew it was going to be an important point.   
  
  Q. Happy how you performed under the pressure?  
 SCOTT JAMIESON: Yeah, I had a game plan. Obviously I was quite far up through ten holes, so I knew at that point I just had to keep hitting greens and make him win holes rather than me get giving him any holes, which fortunately I was able to do.  
  
  Q. What has been you best moment of the year - putt at Castle Stuart to get in The Open or Vivendi or something else?   
 SCOTT JAMIESON: Yeah, on an individual basis, that was by far the biggest -- the best part of the year because it was quite dramatic. You had to hole the putt to it get in The Open.   
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Did you know at the time?   
 SCOTT JAMIESON: I didn't know 100 per cent, but I knew if I didn't, I wasn't. I was in a tie for third place, and I wasn't sure how they did the tie-breaks, but I knew at that point I was this third place and that had a chance of getting in.   
 And the Vivendi, there wasn't any sort of one particular shot at Vivendi that was a make or break type thing. But the whole week was fantastic.   
  
  Q. Schedule rest of the year?   
 SCOTT JAMIESON: Still not sure. I'm next week and Madrid and Portugal will be quite tight and I should be at the one in Valencia. I won't get Valderrama. I won't get Singapore or HSBC, unless I win. I'll probably go to South Africa, the two in South Africa, and then hopefully Dubai at the end of the year.   
  
  Q. How much confidence do you take from Vivendi?   
 SCOTT JAMIESON: Like I said earlier, when I was able to perform at a higher level -- I think being in similar situations, I have that behind me and have had success and I think it will be good in a situation like that -- yeah, he sent me a text on the upon day after, kind of giving me congratulations and to kick on, have a strong finish to the end of the year.   
  
  Q. What advice would you give Michael Stewart after his disappointment of missing at PQ1.   
 SCOTT JAMIESON: I don't know if he has a the management group - but his credentials as an amateur golfer will get him plenty of invites to Challenge Tour events, if not a few main tour events. And he's good enough that he doesn't have anything to worry about. It takes some people longer than others to get out on to the main tour, but winning at any level is still winning.   
 You still have to hit the shots and hole the putts to win. Just that in itself breeds confidence. I think any level you play at as long as you're competing, that's the main thing.   
  
  Q. Can you remember the first time you played these three courses?   
 SCOTT JAMIESON: I can't remember the first time I played to be honest. I'd only played St. Andrews once because it was always too early in the when I was this college in the States. I might have played it before I went to the States in 2006. And then maybe I've played it once or twice apart from that, but Carnoustie is the one I've played the most, and then Kingsbarns I played two weeks ago for the first time.   
  
  Q. Do you know how many you will play nexct year with yur better category??  
 SCOTT JAMIESON: I think probably would keep it around 25 tournaments for the year. But again, it just depends on how different tournaments run back-to-back with one another and how the prize funds and things, and then obviously the experience I've had had this year, there will be certain courses that suit my eye and others that maybe don't. I know they have released half the schedule already but I've not really sat down and gone through it yet.   
  
  Q. Wedding plans coming along?  
 SCOTT JAMIESON: As far as I know. We are having the reception at TPC Sawgrass, I was there the other day for a tasting - it tatsed pretty good to me (laughter).  
    
  Q. When did you get in --  
 SCOTT JAMIESON: I went out there straight after Vivendi and got back to Glasgow on Monday. It was good - I had not seen her since the British Open.  
  
  Q. Did your house key still work?  
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Let us not go any further. Thanks for joining us, good luck this week. Cheers.   
   
    
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT