THE BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 10, 2011
Scott Jamieson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Scott, did you know how important an up-and-down that was at 18?  
 SCOTT JAMIESON: I wasn't sure. I said -- my caddie said, well, I think an up-and-down will get you in. He said, well, you have a higher World Ranking than those boys, but just make sure you get this one up-and-down. It was the first putt I had all day that I was really confident on my read and it just reached the hole.   
  
  Q. You left yourself a little bit to do with the chip.   
 SCOTT JAMIESON: It was an awkward one, down and back up and drops off behind the pin as well and didn't want to get too aggressive with it. Yeah, I can't believe I'm in The Open, it's great.  
  
  Q. Does that feel fantastic? Describe what that means.   
 SCOTT JAMIESON: It's not registered yet to be honest. First major, hopefully many more to come.  
  
  Q. Tell me the story of your round, you started in a very promising position?  
 SCOTT JAMIESON: It was so bunched, I knew that somebody was going to shoot a really low score. I thought if I could shoot 7-under, then I could probably have a chance of winning, because you've got the world No. 1 breathing down your neck, you know, it's going to take something special. But I set out to win the tournament obviously but it's disappointing not to, but that's certainly great news to hear.  
  
  Q. And the experience of playing with Graeme McDowell, you enjoyed that as well?  
 SCOTT JAMIESON: Yeah, it was great. I played with Martin Kaymer a few weeks as well and it's just great playing with these guys. Kind of learned -- not so much learning but just seeing what kind of game they have got, and you know, what you need to do to get even better.   
  
  Q. This goes down as a great few days for you with a special ending?  
 SCOTT JAMIESON: Absolutely. My fiancée was told she could have a week off next week if I qualified, so delighted.  
  
  Q. Your history with Royal St. George's? How well do you know the place?  
 SCOTT JAMIESON: Yeah, played the British Amateur in 2006 and got to the quarterfinals, and then won the home internationals there with the Scotland team in 2006 also.  
  
  Q. Which made it all the more important that you get back there.   
 SCOTT JAMIESON: Yeah, I love that golf course. I've had some good success on it, so hopefully the trend continues.  
  
  Q. Is Castle Stuart good preparation, anyway, playing on a links prior to that?  
 SCOTT JAMIESON: Absolutely, yeah. This is so different to what we play week-in, week-out on Tour. So yeah, this is definitely good preparation.   
  
  Q. And yet a different kind of links course, a different kind of challenge next week?  
 SCOTT JAMIESON: Yeah, imagine -- obviously we had a lot of rain the last few weeks. Imagine it was slightly more fiery than this, but this is definitely a lot more fiery than what we are used to on Tour.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT