THE BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 8, 2011
Scott Jamieson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   SCOTT CROCKETT: Scott, thanks, as always, for coming and joining us. Many congratulations on an entertaining day out there. It was very exciting, everybody was looking up for 59s and things. Give us your thoughts on the day out there.
 SCOTT JAMIESON: Obviously it was a great, starting with a bogey again, but it was nice to come back with four birdies in a row. And then chucked in a couple of eagles, which was starting to make it really exciting.
 But unfortunately, a little blip there on 17. But holed a nice putt at the last, and got a par, actually. 
 SCOTT CROCKETT: It was a good up-and-down at the last, it would be horrible to end with a double-bogey. What happened at 8.
 SCOTT JAMIESON: I hit the wrong club off the tee. So it was a long way short and left, and then just made the most of it after that, and caught my chip a bit heavy and ran my first putt a little too far past and misread the next one.
 SCOTT CROCKETT: As you say it was good elsewhere, give us the details of your two eagle, what did you hit on 18.
 SCOTT JAMIESON: Good drive and 3-iron to about four feet. 
 2 was a drive and a 5-iron, and holed probably 35 feet. 
 SCOTT CROCKETT: You're in excellent position, the weather is perhaps getting a little worse. Give us your thoughts on looking ahead to the weekend? 
 SCOTT JAMIESON: Yeah, in a great position. It's always nice to have an opportunity to play here in the Scotland in front of home support and to be in the position I'm in. 

 Q. Were you looking at the leaderboards? How much did you know about what was going on?
 SCOTT JAMIESON: It's just Friday, so no problem looking at leaderboards. Maybe they are a bit different if you are starting Sunday. I certainly don't think I would watch the leaderboards initially. But it's just Friday and it's not -- it's still not even halfway yet, so no problem watching the board and just nice to see your name up there. 

 Q. You spoke about playing the final round with Martin Kaymer in Germany and that helped you get used to the galleries and handling attention, how much did that experience stand you in good stead today when you are at the top of the leaderboard and everyone has their eyes on you? 
 SCOTT JAMIESON: Yeah, the experience of that, you have to put yourself in that situation to learn, everything approximate this year has been a learning curve and so it was very valuable, for sure. 

 Q. Terrific first season on the main tour, but you have had two, I would say bad tournaments, bad scores, and you come back immediately. How are you able to shrug that off, two very bad scores, I suppose you could say?
 SCOTT JAMIESON: Every week you play on a different course with different conditions. It's such a fine line between playing well and playing poorly. A lot of it's just momentum. You see putts going in, you see yourself hitting good shots, where some weeks if the course has certain holes that don't fit your eye, you maybe don't hit the best shots and then momentum can possibly go the other way. That's when you need to try your best and swing the momentum in your favour. 

 Q. With everything you've been achieving this season all over Europe, what would it mean to you to actually win your home open?
 SCOTT JAMIESON: That would be a dream come true to win your first tournament on home soil. It would be beyond all expectations, that's for sure. 

 Q. A year ago you won The Challenge Tour, and at this point in the season you didn't have very many good finishes or very much money at all. In your wildest dreams did you imagine you would be here, Scottish Open, top of the leaderboard?
 SCOTT JAMIESON: We all dream. You know, I'm the type of player that probably needs a couple of good results to sort of reassure the process of what I'm doing is the correct thing. Halfway through last year I had a good result on The Challenge Tour and ever since then I've managed to kick on. I've got a bit more belief that the things I'm doing are the correct things. 

 Q. A kind of follow-up on, that you've clearly got a lot of talent, just wondering what your ambitions are. And there's a lot of young golfers coming through here to break through into a more elite level. What are your goals and do you feel that maybe you've got it in you to make that step up? 
 SCOTT JAMIESON: Yeah, I mean, playing The Ryder Cup has always been my -- that was why I think that was one of the reasons why I wanted to play professional golf. 
 So obviously if you're playing The Ryder Cup, you're an elite golfer, no questions there. So I believe that what I'm doing right now will hopefully take me there. Obviously the next step would be to win a tournament, and then multiple wins after that, if you want to start talking about playing in Ryder Cups. 

 Q. At 28, fair to say you're a late bloomer --
 SCOTT JAMIESON: 27. 

 Q. Sorry. Is there a point you realised that you sort of belonged here, or know that your time is going to come around for you? 
 SCOTT JAMIESON: Sorry, wasn't listening. (Laughter).

 Q. A late bloomer, last season, things were starting to take shape and you knew you could go onto that next level?
 SCOTT JAMIESON: Yeah, I think Kazakhstan last year was a big turning point for me, I finished second there, I had a good last round there that propelled me up the leaderboard. I think went from about 70th in The Challenge Tour rankings up into the Top-20. 
 So then I knew at that point I was within touching distance of getting a European Tour card. So that was a huge step, 32,000 Euros cheque takes the weight off your shoulders so that you know the rest of the year will be financed if you like. I was fortunate, ever since I turned pro, I have had very good sponsors. So I'm very grateful for that. 

 Q. You've just had lunch, but will you allow yourself to think of Sandwich?
 SCOTT JAMIESON: Terrible. 
 SCOTT CROCKETT: Absolutely desperate. You actually don't have to answer that question, it was so bad. (Laughter).
 SCOTT JAMIESON: Yeah, actually I'm aware of that situation, but it was obviously a goal, you know there's a spot there if you finish in the top five, but you can only really concentrate on the tournament you're playing in. So I've just got to keep doing what I've been doing, and hopefully I win, and if not, that would be a nice consolation. 
 SCOTT CROCKETT: Try and raise the tone of the questions. 

 Q. What are you having for tea? Obviously great amateur career, Scottish No. 1 in youths and whatever. When you turned pro, you did have quite a good apprenticeship at the lower levels. Was there ever any doubt at all that you were going to get to this stage?
 SCOTT JAMIESON: Yeah, my first year as a pro, I played a bit in America, and then mixed in a few Challenge Tour invites, which probably wasn't the way to do it, because I was -- I wasn't playing enough on one tour to ever sort of build myself up if you like. But after my first year out there, I decided that I had to basically -- that's why I decided to go and play the Euro Pro Tour, because it's a stepping stone and it's a ladder from there up on to The European Tour. 
 But I wouldn't say I ever had any doubt. But had it gone on a couple of years -- say I had played a Euro Pro for two years and didn't finish in the top 5, I think I probably would have come to the realisation that professional golf, maybe wouldn't have been for me. But was fortunate, I won my first year. 

 Q. What special features of the course appeal to you, and what do you see as the particular appeal of the course to the tournament professional?
 SCOTT JAMIESON: The course is fantastic. Obviously playing well helps. But you know, I think every hole is really well defined. You get different -- all of the fairways are kind of green and you've got the longer grasses with a kind of brown colour, you play through dunes. But it's just a nice -- it's a really nice mix. The par 5s and the short par 4s you feel that you can attack if you like and pick up birdies. They are all very tricky greens, and there's tricky areas around the greens. So I think patience is probably an important thing on this golf course, as well.

 Q. It's been described as a fun course. Does that description resonate with you? 
 SCOTT JAMIESON: Well, it was fun this morning when the sun is shining. I wouldn't fancy playing it in the wind and rain. 
 SCOTT CROCKETT: Scott, well done today. Good luck tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT