NEDBANK GOLF CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY GARY PLAYER
November 11, 2017
Scott Jamieson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Terrific round of 5-under par 67.  What pleased you most about your play today?
SCOTT JAMIESON: I was much better on the greens today than I had been the first couple days, so that was nice.
Q. You looked like you were out there for a Sunday afternoon stroll, totally comfortable.  Were you?
SCOTT JAMIESON: Obviously something I could portray, but obviously it's exciting.  I'm in a good position.  Tomorrow will be a new challenge.
Q. You're moving to America next year but plan to go still play in Europe.  Tell us about that decision and why you made it?
SCOTT JAMIESON: Well, my wife's American.  Her family's there.  Just an easier life for everyone over there.
I think my golf should improve, as well.  I think I'll be getting on the golf course a lot more in the wintertime.  It's just something I don't do now, maybe just a bit of laziness myself.  I think it will be much easier.
Q. Give us your thoughts on tomorrow.  Could be a huge day in your career.
SCOTT JAMIESON: Yeah, exactly.  Still an awful long way to go but if I can obviously do what I did today, I'll be in with a good shout.
Q. You said yesterday, it was about keeping going and doing more of the same.  You've actually gone out there and shot your best round of the week so far, so things are definitely moving in the right direction.
SCOTT JAMIESON: Yeah, it was much the same tee-to-green probably as the other few days.  Just putter was a little hotter today.  I got rid of those 3-putts I had earlier on in the round yesterday.  Yeah, happy with that.
Q. Big tournament, Rolex Series, you're in the final group tomorrow.  What does that mean, exciting times, and what would it mean to you to win a tournament of this stature?
SCOTT JAMIESON: Yeah, it would be the biggest moment of my career.  I'll be well aware of that tomorrow.  I've got to see if I can step up to the challenge.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT