BANK OF AMERICA COLONIAL
May 22, 2003
Jay Williamson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JAY WILLIAMSON:  I hit a lot of fairways and I had some funky shots out of the fairways because of mud.  But other than that I just felt like I played pretty good.

Q.  Are you surprised they played it down?
JAY WILLIAMSON:   No, it was borderline.  But I think it's a good thing to see. 

Q.  You got a soft golf course here.  Do you feel any extra pressure on yourself to shoot a number because there's a woman in the field?
JAY WILLIAMSON:   Yeah, I mean I guarantee you there were, I don't know how many guys were in the field but I guarantee every one was thinking about it.  I got on the golf course and I told myself that on the first hole I felt like I was going to shoot 85 but I but then I hung in there and made a couple putts.

Q.  Did you check the leaderboard to see how she was doing?
JAY WILLIAMSON:  I saw her when I was walking on the 10th hole when I made the turn I had a comfortable one shot lead over her.  So I felt pretty good about that.  But I'll give her credit.  She's hanging in there and today will probably be one of toughest days for her.  She's never done this before.

Q.  Let me ask you one last thing, have you seen more tucked pins in your career this year than ever before?
JAY WILLIAMSON:  Yeah, definitely.  I made a six on number one and then I birdied No. 2 to settle me down.  I hit a good drive off the tee.  I had 92 yards and knocked it about four feet and made the putt. 
Then I hit a great drive on number 3, which is one of the toughest holes out here, obviously.  Didn't hit a very good second shot.  But I made about a 40 footer for birdie.  Obviously it's always nice to get off to a good start like that. 
Then I made par on the next. 
I birdied number nine.  I hit a 2-iron off the tee and then hit a 7-iron in there about probably four feet.  Made a good putt there. 
Then birdied number 12.  Actually drove right in the middle of a divot, right in the middle of the fairway.  Banged a wedge in there about four feet.  Made it.  I hit a really good second shot out of the divot. 
Then I actually hit a perfect drive on 14.  Right in the middle of the fairway.  I had mud all over my ball.  And I made a bogey there.  I missed a very makeable putt three, four-footer.  That was my only bad putt of the day. 
And then I birdied 18. 

Q.  How does that set up?
JAY WILLIAMSON:   18 I hit a perfect drive and I had 167 to the hole and I just hit, I switched to that regular Pro V ball, so I was able to be aggressive with the shot and hit a good shot in there about four, four and a half feet.  Made a good birdie. 
I also birdied number 6. 
I bogeyed number 5.  I hit a good tee shot off number 5.  I hit 3-wood.  And I hit it in the middle of the fairway.  And then I had some mud on my ball and I hit a 5-iron, it just didn't go where I thought it would.  It went in the left bunker and I couldn't get it up-and-down. 
Then 6 I hit a really good tee shot and hit a good wedge in there about, sand wedge in there about five feet.  I made it. 

Q.  Conditions overall, you spoke a couple times about mud?
JAY WILLIAMSON:  Well I have never played here before.  And the only time I did was on Monday when it was firm and 95 degrees.  So it was a lot different golf course than what I saw on Monday.  But I just had a lot of mud on my ball but everyone's going to if you drive it in the fairway.  And you know what, I don't really ever like to play lift, clean and place.  Unless it's absolutely necessary.  And today I don't think it was necessary. 

Q.  Even a couple times?
JAY WILLIAMSON:  Even a couple times.  That's just part of the game.  I'm certain that Mr.  Hogan would have wanted us playing it down today also. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
JAY WILLIAMSON:  Yeah I think so.  I think the golf course will be a lot different tomorrow afternoon.  I still think that this afternoon it will be wet and you know, it's just in good shape, I don't think it's in great shape.  But the greens are perfect.  The greens are as good as we played all year. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT