TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 25, 2010
Jay Williamson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Jay, kind of a nice start today. 10, 11, 12. Gets your motor running. 
 JAY WILLIAMSON: And I had a good shot at 13, but you know what, it was a good day.

 Q. Yeah, you didn't get 13. That was a par 5. What are you doing?
 JAY WILLIAMSON: I know. I don't like to make birdies on par-5s. But you know, I can't believe I shot 65 today the way I finished. 
 I was really leaking -- you know, I butchered the par-5 on the front pretty bad, and it kind of discombobulated me for a while, but it was nice to shoot 65. It was great playing with Scott and Rickie for two days, and it was fun.

 Q. You may play a little more with Scott since you finished both at 6. Talk about that. You guys both use the same sort of putting style with the long putter. Is that a good thing to see somebody else doing it while you're out there?
 JAY WILLIAMSON: I love playing with Scott because he rolls it so well, and he usually makes lots of putts, and it's always fun playing with somebody that's making a lot of putts. 
 We've been friends for a long time out here, and I always enjoy playing with him; and it was fun playing with Rickie, too.

 Q. I was going to say, the two of you old guys got to play with the kid today. 
 JAY WILLIAMSON: No. We were the veterans. 

 Q. Veterans. 
 JAY WILLIAMSON: Don't call us the old guys. We were the veterans, and we were playing with the rookie.

 Q. You've been playing really well lately. We talked earlier in the week, you've really got something going here. 
 JAY WILLIAMSON: Well, I'm trending up. You know, it's -- again, I don't really know. It's amazing, confidence in this game is hard to get, and once you get it, you just have to roll with it. So I'm hanging in there and just trying to make as many birdies as I can.

 Q. And a lot of people yelling for you, too. That's kind of fun, and in your second backyard. 
 JAY WILLIAMSON: Yeah. It's fun to come back to Hartford. I know a lot of people here, and it's great to see some friendly faces. And it really puts it all into perspective for me. I have to pinch myself a little bit walking down the fairways here.

 Q. What do you have to do for the weekend? What do you need to do differently?
 JAY WILLIAMSON: I need to shoot two 65s. That's my goal, 65, 65 and we'll see what happens.

 Q. Go get 'em. 
 JAY WILLIAMSON: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT