BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 5, 2008
Jay Williamson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How did it play? How did the course play?   
 JAY WILLIAMSON: Well, what I just said over there, two things I'm really proud of today -- well, three things. Obviously I'm proud of the way that I've handled my emotions and that I've been able to perform, but I'm really proud of the people that got this golf course together. I was shocked. The first putt I think I hit went ten feet past the hole on the practice putting green this morning. The golf course is in phenomenal shape.   
 And then secondly, I'm really proud of the crowd here in St. Louis. I wasn't convinced it was a golf crowd, but after making that putt and hearing that roar on No. 9, this is a golf town, and it was a lot of fun out there and I was really happy to be a part of it.   
  
  Q. Do you feel like with the conditions -- I guess the story is how the course plays longer.   
 JAY WILLIAMSON: Absolutely. It could still dry out. I'm not -- it doesn't really suit my game to be hitting 3- and 4-irons into these par-4s all the time. But I made a couple putts. I hung in there -- I think the golf course plays much more difficult into a north wind, which we'll probably have for the rest of the week. But if I can keep my emotions under control and keep it in the fairway, I'll be all right.   
  
  Q. Talk about your emotions. Was it difficult to stay on an even keel, concentrating on the course?  
 JAY WILLIAMSON: It's always difficult for me. I'm a pretty emotional player, so it seems to be always a challenge for me. Golf doesn't come real easy for me so I've got to grind on every shot, and I had a nice reward there at the end.  
  
  Q. Did they have some more challenging pin placements because they figured you guys were going to be shooting darts?  
 JAY WILLIAMSON: That's a good question. I don't play here as much as I used to before the renovation, but I saw 18 brand-new pin placements out there today. I haven't seen most of them. I just think the golf course was fabulous today.   
 I don't know what everyone else is saying, but I was really impressed with the setup, I was impressed with the shape that it was in, and it was a phenomenal day of golf.   
  
  Q. How about having to play 36 holes tomorrow, how difficult is that going to be?  
 JAY WILLIAMSON: Well, that's not going to be as difficult as getting up on Sunday morning. Tomorrow we can do it, we'll just walk around -- it's a long walk, that's for sure, but I've got kind of a bad foot, so Sunday morning -- basically it'll be an Advil weekend. That's kind of the way I'll look at it. But you know what, a lot of adrenaline, a lot of excitement, and I couldn't be happier to be able to perform in front of all these people that came out to cheer me on. I had great support out there.   
  
  Q. Was there any particular time out there today when you stepped up on the tee that you really did have to hold it in?   
 JAY WILLIAMSON: You know, the first tee shot was definitely a challenge. You know, I dreamed about being announced on the first tee here for a long time, and for that to come true, it was -- I mean, I don't really know what to say. I'm living a dream, and I just hope someone doesn't wake me up anytime too soon.   
  
  Q. You kept hitting good shots and finally got rewarded with those two putts at the end.   
 JAY WILLIAMSON: Yeah, I hit a lot of greens today but I didn't really hit it close to the hole. I hit a couple good putts that I thought may go in, and I really needed to just kind of make a couple. You know, making that putt on 8, I didn't hit a very good putt. I got fortunate it went in; that helped me on 9. It's just a battle out here, and I'm happy to be competing. That's what I wanted to do this week. I'm praying to compete, praying to have a fun week, and it's been great so far.   
  
  Q. What happened on that last -- off to the right there in the rough? What did you find?  
 JAY WILLIAMSON: Well, I was just over there by a drain. It was actually in my discretion whether I was going to hit it, and I felt like I might, the type of shot that I was going to hit, so I was able to get relief. Actually I was able to drop it in a pretty good spot.   
 It's a great way to finish. That was a tough pin on 9, and obviously you don't want to be in the right rough with that pin, but I was able to hit a really good shot in there, and then to make the putt, it was certainly something I'll never forget.  
  
  Q. Is that the shot you liked the least off the tee today?   
 JAY WILLIAMSON: It's just a tough tee shot, it always has been. I think that's one of the most underrated holes out here. The fairway is a little bit tighter than usual. Actually it set up perfect for me today into a right-to-left wind. I didn't hit a very good tee shot. I was a little anxious, and just didn't get to finish my swing.  
  
  Q. Is it weird going 20, 25 feet, somebody will actually reach out and try to shake your hand? Your brother said like your mailman showed up.   
 JAY WILLIAMSON: You really have no idea. I'm sure the guys that I was playing with today were -- they probably got tired of hearing it. But like I said, it was great support. I don't know what I expected from the crowd, but they certainly exceeded my expectations today. Like I said, it was great support, and I'm just thankful that they came out to follow me.  
  
  Q. It's nice to say that your score icing on the cake; it's hard to look at it that way?  
 JAY WILLIAMSON: I've said it all week, I'm not going to be happy shooting 80 here and finishing last. I wouldn't enjoy that. I only enjoy being on the golf course if I can compete. 2-under today is a good score. It's not a great score, but it's -- I couldn't have asked for anything better.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT