NBA DRAFT 2017
June 22, 2017
Lauri Markkanen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Please start with an opening statement about what you'll bring to your new team.  
LAURI MARKKANEN: Yeah, I'm just excited to get to Chicago, and I'm going to bring a lot of energy, and I can do a lot of things for the team and not just shooting the ball.  I can stretch the floor a lot and I can help the team on rebounding.  A lot of things.   
 Q.  Did you know you were going to Chicago instead of Minnesota, and what was it like when you got picked?  
LAURI MARKKANEN: I heard it right before the pick happened.  It wasn't really a surprise when they actually called my name, but I didn't know like too much before that.   
 Q.  And then they asked you to do the Timberwolves howl.  Was that kind of odd you were asked to do that and you're not going to play for them?  
LAURI MARKKANEN: Most of the questions were about Chicago.  But I'm just happy to be here and just glad to be involved in it.  Like I'm just honored if some team, organization, includes me in trades.   
 Q.  Looking at players in the NBA right now, are there any that you think specifically your game sort of is similar to or compares to, current NBA players?  
LAURI MARKKANEN: I know the game is changing all the time, so there's more and more big guys who can shoot the ball and stretch the floor.  But I don't think there's like one similar, one exactly like me.  I'm trying to learn from everyone and just play my own game.   
 Q.  Are there any guys' highlights you like to see to kind of see what they're doing or anything like that?  
LAURI MARKKANEN: Like I said, there's no just one player.  I like to watch everyone.  I try to take a little bit of everything from those guys and add them to my game.   
 Q.  Clearly the Bulls are transitioning, going in a very different direction, probably going very young.  Means a lot of minutes for you as a rookie.  Are you ready for that?  
LAURI MARKKANEN: Yeah, I'm definitely ready to play right away.  Whatever Coach asks me to do, I'm going to do, and I know I'm in good shape and I'm ready to play.   
 Q.  There have been a lot of talk about Jimmy Butler and how much the Bulls valued him, they didn't want to trade him unless they got back a lot in return.  To be the guy that is part of that package, how much does that say about how they feel about you and what kind of an honor is that?  
LAURI MARKKANEN: I mean, it's just a great honor to be here, so I'm blessed to be a part of a historic organization, so I'm just going to do everything I can to help the team win.   
 Q.  I saw you were showing a Finnish flag.  What does it mean for you as a Finn to be pick No. 7 in the NBA Draft?  
LAURI MARKKANEN: I mean, it's a great honor to be picked by an NBA team.  That's a big thing for me, for my country, just because it's been a little while since there's been a Finnish player on the court.  I take a lot of pride in that.   
 Q.  Chicago is obviously a very historical basketball city.  What do you kind of think about that, Michael Jordan, all the history that's what happened in Chicago?  What does that mean to you?  
LAURI MARKKANEN: I mean, just like I said, I'm really honored to be part of this organization, and can't wait to go there and do what I can.  It's just a blessing to be here.  And of course Michael Jordan, greatest player ever to play, so it's huge to be a part of it.   
 Q.  Is it surprising the Bulls took you?  Did you have an indication they were interested in you?  Doesn't seem like there was as much talk about them taking you as some other teams.  
LAURI MARKKANEN: No, I didn't have any idea that was going to happen.  I just knew that I didn't want to expect anything from that because I know there's going to be trades and so anything can happen.  But this is the first time going to Chicago, so I'm looking forward to it.   
 Q.  After a year in Arizona, how does it feel to go back whether it was Minnesota or Chicago, just to go back to weather you're kind of used to a little bit.  
LAURI MARKKANEN: I really don't know how is it, but I'm prepared for everything just coming all the way from Finland.  Arizona and Finland, they're quite opposite, so I think I'm going to be good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT