NCAA REGIONAL SOFTBALL TOURNAMENT: BATON ROUGE
May 20, 2018
Lexie Comeaux
Gerry Glasco
Kelli Martinez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LSU - 3, UL Laffayette - 1   
COACH GLASCO: It was a great way to end the Regional, I guess, as far as the quality of play and it being 18 innings for the fans.   
For us as a team, it's a hard ending.  But I'm proud of the girls.  I thought they came out today and did what they needed to do the first game to get it extended.   
They fought really, really hard.  I thought Kylee Jo Trahan and Summer were both outstanding in the circle.  I don't have the box scores from the first game.  Happens to seem like yesterday.  So I don't remember all the details of the game, but I thought Aeriyl Mass made a really key part of that last inning, when we were able to get the lead.   
And I thought -- people that did the little things in that game, we put JoJo in to run and told her she had to score from first, and she was really hauling around the bases.  And big hit from Kourtney Gremillion to put the ball in play.  And I don't know what happened out in left field.  I didn't get to see it.   
But somehow the ball got by and I was proud of JoJo for scoring, and I thought our kids did a great job of coming from behind down 4-0, and I don't remember what inning it was in, the ninth, it really doesn't matter, I guess, ninth, tenth inning, finally got the lead.  And I think the score was 5-4.  It was a big win for our ballclub.  For a young team, we need to show we can fight and play with grit in that situation.   
LSU's an outstanding ballclub.  Very well coached.  Outstanding senior pitchers.  And their team, they're just a really good team.   
So we knew it was going to be a battle today.  And Game 2 I was really proud of the kids.  I thought we battled so hard and again we came out from behind got it tied 1-1.  I thought we made a great play obviously at the plate.  And I'm 50 feet away.  I know I can't see it better than the guys six feet away.   
I thought she was out.  I thought she was safe.  He thought she was out.  So I'm sure he's right and I'm wrong.  But at that moment I felt like I needed to fight for my team.  When we got the out at second base it would have been three outs, score 1-1.   
It is what it is.  We'll find out later if I was right or I was wrong.  And probably I meant to get warned.  I didn't intend to get thrown out.  I did mean to get a warning.  When I got the warning, I started to walk towards the dugout, I didn't expect to get tossed, but I did.  It's been a long hot day for him and me both, so it might have been better, too, just to get it over with at that point.   
But at any rate, really proud of the girls.  Our seniors outstanding, can't say enough about the leadership of Kelli Martinez and Kylee Jo, Kalyn Watts and Brittany Rodriguez.  They just have been so good all year.   
And the team that we have in our clubhouse chose to stay here and play for me.  I can't say enough about these girls.  To be in my first season here, to come in and start practice on January 3rd, and for them to carry me all the way to the final game of a Regional championship and play the way they did today, I'll always be indebted to these girls and I'm really proud of them and just -- I thought they played a great game as well as I thought LSU played a great game.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Lexie and Kelli.   
 Q.  Kelli, as a senior, talk about not just what you all did today but evidenced by what you did all today, the fight in this team and how proud are you about it as far as the way you all played today?  
KELLI MARTINEZ: Yeah, I think today showed -- today showed our fight, for sure.  I don't think anybody was expecting us to even get this far.  And to end up where we were at.  It was a pretty good feeling.  This team is something special.  They were all very young, but they're so talented.  They don't even understand how talented they are.   
But being able to have that like fight and that heart is what made the game fun.   
 Q.  Lexie, can you just kind of describe what you saw on that play at the plate?  
LEXIE COMEAUX: It's probably better that I don't comment.  I think if any of you guys or anyone in the world will go back and watch that on replay, they'll know exactly what the right call is.  There was no question.   
 Q.  Coach, to start this Regional off losing you've got to battle your way back and battle back with LSU.  What was this weekend kind of like for you and this team?  
COACH GLASCO: Well, you know what, we needed it.  I mean, as a new coach in the program I need the kids to -- I've got to earn trust with my players.  I've got to earn their respect.   
And I think it put us in a stressful situation where we had to come together and they've got to learn to trust me as a coach and we're going to -- I want to be aggressive.  And sometimes when you're aggressive, you can always look silly.  But you also can, you can't be timid.  You have to attack, you have to attack.  And so I thought it was really good for our team to experience the fight that it takes to come back that far.  And to get to where we did really proud of my team.   
 Q.  Was that a set play, the double steal, just to draw the defense in?  And then were you yelling at the baserunner to hold and then tell her to go home to score the tying run?  
COACH GLASCO: Yeah, the double steal's just something you take advantage, you recognize if the opportunity is there, you look at the other team's defense and you see the holes, you see what you try to take advantage of.   
And it's something we've worked on really hard all year and early in the season it was a disaster.  And then as the season went on, the girls finally understand and they've done a good job.  I was proud of them right there.  And actually on the ground ball, I had them on go.  I had them running.   
And she made the decision to stop.  I felt like when the third baseman, I believe if you watch the play she dove, I'm not positive about that, I think she dove and got on the ground.  If she did, we could have made it either way.  She held up, and then when the girl threw to first I was hollering go and she went.  She's got great speed, great little athlete.  The way she did it was probably the proper way to run the play.   
 Q.  Do you think today's both games were a good representation of how well you guys have played all year and kind of sum the fight within your team?  
COACH GLASCO: Yeah, you know, I think so.  I would like to, I'm proud of my kids.  I guess you can always play better.  I'm certainly not going to be -- I want to get better over the next 12 months.  I think to be where they are and to be this new to me as a coach and as young as they are, we started a lot of freshmen and sophomores.  I have to be proud of them.   
I think we played really well here.  Anytime I lose, you know, they're not paying me to get second.  I hate second.  Seems like we've been second, second, second in a lot of stuff this last month.  So that's tough for me and I don't want to ever say losing is good enough, because it's not.  But my kids are good enough and my team, love those girls, and they've just been -- it's been a big blessing to me as a coach.   
 Q.  Can you talk about the future of the program, obviously with so many young athletes, really working hard this year, just the future from your perspective?  
COACH GLASCO: You know, this is a first step.  Anybody that thinks we're just going to sit right here doesn't know me or the program or the kids.  We're going to go out.  We're going to work really hard.  Our fall will be essential.  For me fall's a teaching time and spring is a competition time.  The fall will be all about teaching and we'll get so much better in that period and then we'll be able to compete at a higher level next year without any doubt.   
 Q.  That double that tied the game in the first one, what was your thought process throughout that play?  Did you think she had it and kind of surprised?  
COACH GLASCO: You know, when you're coaching you're getting glimpse because you've got to have your eyes in a lot of different places I thought I saw the left fielder slip at one point.  And at that point I picked up the runner, if she catches it it doesn't matter, right.   
As soon as I thought what I thought was a slip, I was bringing JoJo bringing her the whole way.  I didn't see what happened, how the ball got away from the left fielder.  I wasn't watching that point.  I was watching JoJo, make sure she hit the bases and do the things I had to do up there.   
 Q.  I know it wasn't anything you wanted but did it feel good or right to have ULL and LSU going head to head like this to the very end?  
COACH GLASCO: I think we ought to play every spring home and away.  Why would you not?  You've got softball in this state and the kids in the area that grew up playing travel ball.  They want to see us play.  I think we should play twice every spring.  It felt really good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT