ALLSTATE SUGAR BOWL: OHIO STATE v ALABAMA
December 30, 2014
Cardale Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Also you went to Fork Union alum, huh?   
CARDALE JONES:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   What are your feelings right now, about to play on the biggest stage or one of the biggest stages in college football, this being the playoff against Alabama.   How has your preparation been and how has the experience been for you thus far?  
CARDALE JONES:   The experience has been unbelievable, but the preparation not just by myself, by my teammates, has been more special and more prepared and more ready than I've ever seen since I've been here.   
So we're preparing because it's a one‑game season.  
   
 Q.   When J.T. went down with the ankle injury.   We didn't know the significance behind it.   What was going through your mind at that particular time in preparing to play Wisconsin and the game that you had, what was going through your mind at that point?  
CARDALE JONES:   Just picking up where he left off at, making sure we don't skip a beat as an offense, as a team, as a unit, and always being ready.  
   
 Q.   When you look at Alabama's defense, what jumps off the page at you when you look at their defense?  
CARDALE JONES:   Speed, size, the strength, the physicality.   This is going to be the most physical defense we've ever played against.   We've got to be ready for that.  
   
 Q.   When I played at Ohio State going up against the SEC has always been a problem for us.   Has that been talked about in the locker room, and just what's the mantra been for you guys this week as you prepare for it?  
CARDALE JONES:   No, we're not really talking about going against the SEC, we're talking about going against a very good team.   The Big Ten has very good teams as well.  
So we're preparing more like it's just any other game, but we know our opponent a little better.  
   
 Q.   When you look back on your performance against Wisconsin, are you shocked by the magnitude of how you did in that unbelievable stage where you had never started before?  
CARDALE JONES:   Yeah, a little shocked.   But you know our coaches did an unbelievable job in preparing me and my teammates to play on that stage.  
It was the biggest game of the season, and we was down to our third quarterback.   So all that credit goes to the coaches and the guys around me.  
   
 Q.   How have you proven to your teammates that they can count on you in the biggest game in their lives?  
CARDALE JONES:   Just preparing, just show them that we're taking it serious.   And putting in the same amount of work that they put in there.   
So as long as I've got their trust and their faith and we're all good.  
   
 Q.   When did the light turn on for you, when did you get serious preparing and doing all the stuff that it takes?  
CARDALE JONES:   Always, always been that type of way to prepare even though I wasn't the starter for two or three years, because like I say, you never know when your time will come.   So if I wasn't prepared or taking my preparation seriously in the weeks before, I would have went into the team‑up‑north game a couple steps off.  
   
 Q.   Even when you first got to campus, the stories are that it took you a little while‑‑  
CARDALE JONES:   Yeah, definitely that's a whole different year.   That's a whole different animal right there.  
   
 Q.   When you look back at you when you first got to campus, do you say, I don't know, that was some immature kid, does it seem like a long time ago?  
CARDALE JONES:   Definitely, seems like a long time ago.   And with the help of my teammates and my coaches they helped me to get to this point where I'm at right now.  
   
 Q.   When did it flip?  
CARDALE JONES:   I would say probably around last year, spring ball, maybe somewhere around there when Coach Meyer basically told me get your act together or I wouldn't be here.  
   
 Q.   Cardale, who is your backup?  
CARDALE JONES:   Jalin Marshall.  
   
 Q.   How does he feel about, considering the year, the way the year has gone?  
CARDALE JONES:   He's feeling pretty good.   He's smart.   He's a smart guy.   He's a receiver and punt returner.   He understands the game of football, the Xs and Os.   
It's all about him being ready to go at any given time just like J.T. was and I was.  
   
 Q.   What do you remember from that meeting with Coach Meyer?  
CARDALE JONES:   It was really tough and uncomfortable because I never had‑‑ I never was on the spot like that, and it was almost a do or die decision at that time.  
   
 Q.   And did you immediately know that then, okay, I can't lose this thing, I can't leave school?   
CARDALE JONES:   Yeah, definitely.   Because come to school for more than just to play football.   Our education is the most important part.   And I mean leaving here or getting kicked out of school was not really an option for me.  
   
 Q.   What's your favorite class?   What have you taken academically that you like?  
CARDALE JONES:   Some form of economics.  
   
 Q.   Macro or micro?  
CARDALE JONES:   Micro.  
   
 Q.   Interest rates and all that stuff?  
CARDALE JONES:   Yeah, man, it's really difficult, but if you are interested in it you go put the time and effort into it.  
   
 Q.   What do you think you'll do when you're done playing football?  
CARDALE JONES:   Be a financial planner.  
   
 Q.   And is that because a lot of professional athletes struggle with that over the years, is that an emphasis?  
CARDALE JONES:   I don't want to just work for athletes, but just being good with numbers, it interests me.  
   
 Q.   I know you've talked about this quite a bit but can you walk me through how things have changed for you being a third string guy to now being the guy in the Sugar Bowl with all of this on your shoulders, what's that been like for you this year?  
CARDALE JONES:   It's been very humbling.   But all this is not on my shoulders, because my coaches, my teammates always let me know that I don't have to do it on my own.   We have unbelievable guys on offense and defense as long as they pull their weight we'll be okay.   Life has changed a little but not that much.  
   
 Q.   A lot of guys say they don't know what to expect from you even though they saw you did in the Big Ten title, what you did is just one game, what do you expect from Cardale Jones?  
CARDALE JONES:   Just to lead my team not to play within myself.   And just get the ball to the playmakers.  
   
 Q.   In the Alabama defense, when you look at them on film as far as any holes that you might be able to exploit, anything that you guys can beat them with?  
CARDALE JONES:   There's a couple things we want to exploit as far as holes and weakness we don't see any.  
   
 Q.   What about the thought that that Alabama defense is so multiple and complicated it's going to be hard for an inexperienced quarterback?  
CARDALE JONES:   I don't think that they will do anything that we're not prepared for.   Maybe a couple of things we haven't repped against or practiced or seen on film.   
But as far as the lack of preparation for anything they throw at us, we'll be pretty ready.  
   
 Q.   Are they pretty multiple and complicated from what you've seen?  
CARDALE JONES:   They're not trying to trick you, they're trying to line up and play football and beat you.   So all that tricking, they don't need to do that.   
They have the top guys in the country.  
   
 Q.   How important was the Wisconsin game for your personal confidence?  
CARDALE JONES:   It was very important.   My teammates and coaches always let me know they had a lot of confidence in me and to go out there and perform the way I did, it just helped a lot.  
   
 Q.   Was there a level of nervousness at all in that situation?  
CARDALE JONES:   Not really.   Not really.   It's hard to be nervous when you've got some, like some of the unbelievable athletes around you.   It's not like we're playing with one top guy.  
These guys come from all around the country and we are here for the ultimate goal.  
   
 Q.   I know Jalin runs some wildcat, looked good, made plays there, what skills does he have as a passer?  
CARDALE JONES:   Really good, actually.   He was a quarterback in high school even though they ran a triple option.   He can throw some really, really good passes and we always are joking with him about Coach Herman taking him down to Houston with him for his quarterback, so he's really good.  
   
 Q.   Was there a point‑‑ I'm sure you've answered it a million times‑‑ when Urban Meyer told you all right, Cardale, it's time to get serious or else, is there a time when he had that talk with you and said you need to dig in here at Ohio State?  
CARDALE JONES:   Yeah, like I said, it was about last spring or two springs ago, I can't really remember, but he basically let me know, you know, it's time to show why you're here and stop acting like a clown off the field.  
   
 Q.   Was that hard for you?  
CARDALE JONES:   It was a hard conversation, but it wasn't hard to, hey, I can't stop acting like a clown or anything like that.   It was a really difficult conversation.   That was the hardest part about it.  
   
 Q.   When you have seen how far you've come, how much you've matured probably nice to look back at it now see where you are now, can you talk about that process?  
CARDALE JONES:   It was just tough.   It was a lot of growing pains because having to change your ways and change the person you are and how you were raised and the way you were accustomed to.   So it was a lot of growing pains, but it was something I had to go through to be at the stage here.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel you can lead this team to a national title?  
CARDALE JONES:   Definitely, with the guys around me.  
   
 Q.   What will it take?  
CARDALE JONES:   Everybody putting in, chipping into the pot.   Not just all on me.  
   
 Q.   Is there a feeling that Alabama is going to be looking at you as a third stringer and they've had a month to prepare.   Do you feel like they've had time to do things that can confuse you because you simply haven't had that level of experience yet?  
CARDALE JONES:   Like I said, I don't think they're going to try to come out and confuse or trick or anything like that, it's the top team in the country.   They didn't get that way by tricking guys every other week.   
So I mean coming out with trying to do something that is confusing, I don't think so.  
   
 Q.   Are you a guy that enjoys film study?  
CARDALE JONES:   Definitely.  
   
 Q.   What do you like about it?  
CARDALE JONES:   Just understanding the tendencies get different tips to recognize different coverages and blitzes.   Helps you a lot.   Slows down the game.   The lack of experience makes up in the film room.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT