ANA INSPIRATION
April 3, 2021
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Inbee, this course, when the winds really pick up, can present its own certain challenges.  How do you think you fared today?
 INBEE PARK:   Well, I mean, it was definitely windy conditions and I played front nine really well.  I think just couple of shots and putts left out on the back nine, but overall I think the play was I think good.
 Could have been better, but I think it was pretty decent.  Obviously we have one more day and we just don't know what the condition's going to be, so just deal with the conditions tomorrow.  Hopefully hit some more greens, fairways, and putts.
 Q. I was going to say, those three birdies on the front nine, what was working so well and got you off to such a hot start?
 INBEE PARK:   Well, you know, I putted really good today.  I have had some great par saves, couple of long par saves, and I probably missed some birdie putts but I played really good on the par putts.
 So except for No. 17, I think everything else was pretty good.
 Q. I remember at the beginning of this week you were saying that you're still working on your putting.  Do you feel as if it's improved through the week?
 INBEE PARK:   I think so.  I think putting has improved definitely.  Just ball striking is not probably 100%.  It's getting there.  I feel like I'm hitting it more consistent.  Just got to hit it a little bit more consistent on the drives.  Especially a course like this, you just can't miss the fairways.
 Q. As we head into the final day tomorrow, the temperatures will be soaring once again.  What does it take to refocus and not let the heat or the temperatures get ahead yourself?
 INBEE PARK:   I mean, heat always gets me.  I'm just so in the heat.  I can't really bear much of a heat.  I'm not a hot weather person, so it's definitely going to be a hard couple days for me.  Just one more day left.  So I did well today, yeah.
 Q. What is there to look forward to heading into tomorrow for yourself despite the heat?
 INBEE PARK:   You know, nothing else.  I feel like I'm playing good, getting my feel.  That's all that really matters.  I'm putting good.  Hopefully I get a lot of opportunities tomorrow to hole some putts.
 Q. Patty has opened up a six-stroke lead.  You won by five last week.  What are the challenges that come with maintaining that?
 INBEE PARK:   Well, if she plays the way she did the last three days the trophy is hers for sure.  I mean, unless we get a little bit of help from her I don't think anybody else has a chance.
 So I think she just got to I think handle herself really well under the pressure.  I mean, no matter the six-stroke lead, two-stroke, one-stroke lead, I think the more the gap is you feel more pressure.  I definitely feel some pressure last week because you're leading by five.  If you don't win you done something really wrong.
 If you're leading by one or two, anything can happen in golf.  But if you're leading by five or six and if you don't pull it off tomorrow, just don't feel that good.  So I think that pressure that she has to deal with tomorrow.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT