RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
August 1, 2015
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How good was that round of 69? 
INBEE PARK: It feels great. In these conditions, after yesterday, the golf course was so miserable and so hard. I think we actually got really lucky on the back nine. The wind really died down and we only had a little bit of a sprinkle of rain. I think we got really lucky with the weather. But rain and sideways‑‑ that's what I expected. 

Q. Going for the career Grand Slam‑‑
INBEE PARK: I really haven't thought about this tournament all year long. I just don't want to put too much pressure on myself. I'm just trying to play good golf, and that's what I did the last three days, try not to think about it so much. There's three girls in front of me and I need to play a good round tomorrow to do it. I just have to go out and play good golf. I'm just going to do my best tomorrow. 

Q. At the beginning of the work you said you came in with no expectations. What expectations do you have for Sunday now? 
INBEE PARK: Just going to try to stick with the same game plan. I think because I didn't have any expectations, just try to play some good golf and just try to be patient out there. That really helped me this week. Nothing is going to change tomorrow. 
Obviously I'm going to be somewhat in contention. I don't know how they are going to finish off. But two, three back, is not that bad. I'm just going to try to play some golf. I don't know how the conditions are going to get but one thing for sure‑‑ today we got rain and wind and we got sun. That's typical Scotland. We have just got to be patient.

Q. Difficult weather all three days, but you were pretty fortunate with the draw. How much do you think that has helped? 
INBEE PARK: I think there is definitely one stroke there for sure. They had an awful afternoon yesterday. We played in a bit of wind yesterday, as well. It always comes into play in British Opens what side of the draw you're going to get, and this time I was lucky. Hopefully that's a good sign. 
The last few years, I really have not been on the right side of the draw. So I mean, you know, last year, I was leading the tournament going into the last day and I couldn't get it done, so hopefully the other way around this year and hopefully it will be somewhat different. 

Q. You said at the beginning that it might take you a couple of weeks to find your game. You had some back problems. How were you able to put your game in this position? 
INBEE PARK: We were having a tough time this week trying to get the ball‑striking into the right position. I am still a little bit struggling. It's getting better and better every day. Today was much better‑ball striking day than the last couple days. 
I'm still struggling a little bit, hit a couple of bad shots here and there but obviously a little bit more comfortable going into tomorrow, which is a big help. So yeah, hopefully I can hit the ball straight and hole more putts tomorrow. 

Q. You talked all year about tomorrow being one of the most important days for you, a chance to win a career Grand Slam. How confident are you you can get it done?
INBEE PARK: It's just great that I get somewhat a chance instead of sitting at 3‑ or 4‑over par. Having somewhat of a chance the last day was just a great opportunity. I get another crack at it. You just keep cracking and some day it's going to crack. That's what I'm trying to do, just give it a try every time and that's all I can do is play good golf and maybe enjoy one more day of Scotland. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT