MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 15, 2015
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome World No. 1 Inbee Park to the media center.   Five weeks in a row at No. 1; does that ever get old? 
INBEE PARK:   Never gets old.   Feels great to be up here.   Obviously I am playing good game.   We just finished our third major of the year, and got little bit of confidence from there.
This week and next week before British is going to be really good preparation for me, so I'm really looking forward to playing this week.
THE MODERATOR:   About anyone else on tour would gladly accept a top 5 at a U.S. Open.   Is it almost a disappointment when you don't win now? 
INBEE PARK:   No, a top 3 finish in a major tournament is always great.   It was really close.   I really thought that I really had it for a couple of days. 
I just really had a really bad putting week last week.   Hit the ball great.   Left a lot of opportunities out there.   Left so many putts short, just lipping out.   I just did everything on the greens that I can. 
A lot of my fans and a lot of my family and even commentators were commentating on my putting last week, that nothing was falling.   Just wasn't my week. 
Yeah, everything is great.
THE MODERATOR:   You've talked about the No. 1 ranking.   More than anything else this year you wanted to win the British Open.   How much have you prepared for that? 
INBEE PARK:   It's getting really close.   It's coming a lot quicker than I thought, that's for sure.   I just really try to really get ready for that event this year pretty much. 
Yeah, I mean, it all depends on the confidence level and how good my body condition is by the time.   I still have two weeks.   So far I feel pretty good about my game.   Just got to work on my putting a little bit more, get a little bit more confidence over these two weeks before I go to Scotland.

Q.   How does this course fit your game this week?
INBEE PARK:   It's a great golf course, and course looks like it's in great shape.   Got a lot of rain, but I mean, it's wet, but it's in really good shape.   Rolling extra much quicker than last week, so I'm just kind of surprised.
Yeah, really second‑shot golf course.   Got to hit your second shot from the right spot and make a lot of birdies out here.   Yeah, trying to sharpen up my irons and obviously the putter. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions. 

Q.   What would be a key for to you take control? 
INBEE PARK:   For me particularly will be the putting.   Everything else in my game I feel pretty good about right now.   Just depends how many putts I'm going to make.   It's been quite inconsistent.   Some weeks I putt really good and some weeks I putt really bad.
Hopefully it's going to be a good week.

Q.   (No microphone.)
INBEE PARK:   I just lost count but I'm sure it's probably more than 20. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
INBEE PARK:   It's always good to come to a tournament where I don't have my name on this tournament's trophy.   It's a challenge.   Obviously haven't played that well in this event, but I really like the challenge and I really want to overcome this golf course.
They made a change to what I played last time.   I played two years ago.   They took couple of the big trees down, which was really my problem in this course because my ball flight is little bit low and I couldn't fly them. 
So that's been really helping me.   I don't know.   Obviously they didn't do it for me, but the trees down was good for me.   It's playing a lot more easier and a lot more suited to my game. 

Q.   Which holes? 
INBEE PARK:   No. 3, right side.   They had a really big tree there that I had to hit it over. 
There was another hole.   I can't remember exact one, but it's two holes that I remembered, so...

Q.   I know the environmental people wouldn't be happy. 
INBEE PARK:   Right, right.   I don't know whether they'd bad weather or whatever happened, but it was gone.   Yeah. 
THE MODERATOR:   Lydia said last night the only thing on tour that intimidated her was Stacy Lewis.   Anything intimidate you? 
INBEE PARK:   On the tour?   Everything in general.   I think ‑‑ I really think intimidation can be anything.   It can be an individual, it can be just one week where like where you're mad at something.   I think it's going to be not one big thing.
What really intimidates me right now is going into the British and really wanting to put my game in the level that I want.   Just trying to play better every week in, week out.
Yeah, just trying to be better than I was yesterday.
THE MODERATOR:   I know you've mentioned the British.   The career Grand Slam, is that something you thought about going into this? 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I been thinking about that pretty much since I won three majors.   That's the only one I haven't won.   I haven't won Evian since it became a major, but I have won that tournament and I have my name on that trophy.   I really want to put one on the British Open.
So, yeah, I have been thinking about it.   It's something I probably want forever in my career if I don't achieve that goal, so... 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you so much, Inbee, for coming in.   Good luck this week.
INBEE PARK:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT