U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 2015
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How would you characterize that round?INBEE PARK: It was moving day and one birdie is not great.  I hit the ball probably the best out of the three days, but nothing really wanted to drop.  It was really disappointing out there.  I did everything today but just couldn't drop the putts.  Left it short.  Left it right.  Left it left and lipped it out.  You name it, I did everything on the greens today.Q. Is that maybe the most frustrated you've been on the greens in a while?INBEE PARK: Well, obviously the last tournament I putted horrible. The last couple of days, I saw the good side of my putting and I was putting a little better, rolling the ball a little bit better, but it just didn't go in. Today obviously was -- I hit in a few good putts but just unlucky, and one birdie is not going to go anywhere.Q. How do you feel about your placement on the leaderboard with where the leaders are?INBEE PARK: I'm not really complaining about where I am.  I think it's still good.  I haven't shot an over par.  Been hitting the ball great, pretty consistent play. But I don't know how the leaders are going to finish off, but I need to hole a lot of putts tomorrow to catch them, for sure.Q. This is pretty general, but what do you attribute to the rise of popularity in women's golf in South Korea?INBEE PARK: I don't know, I think it's just a lot of inspiration from the players that are actually playing the LPGA Tour right now.  Watching us play and giving themselves the confidence that you can do it, too.  It's probably just everybody loves golf in Korea.Q. Is it really a big thing?INBEE PARK: Yeah.Q. Is it the most popular sport for women by far?INBEE PARK: Yeah, I've got to say it's definitely one of the top, yeah.Q. And have you seen the number of south Korean participants in the LPGA and the U.S. Women's Open rise?  Do you notice it a lot?  Is it significant?INBEE PARK: I see new faces every year I play on the Tour.  And a lot of really young generations of players from Korea come out and play really well.  It's always good to see and have the company.  And obviously they're ten years younger than me, but they're the new generations of golf.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT