U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 10, 2015
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How did the course play today compared to yesterday?INBEE PARK: It was a lot wetter and softer.  It was playing a little bit longer this morning and we got the wind yesterday, as well.  But today I think it was a little more tricky.  The pin positions were a little trickier, they had a couple of pins on the false fronts.  There were some tough pins out there.  I had a lot of good shots and good putts.  But I ran a lot of the edges. I left a couple out there, but I still feel good.  The first two rounds in The Open and I have shot under par, so I'm happy with that.Q. Do you feel like your ball-striking improved the second round?INBEE PARK: It was better than first round.  But I'm trying to get to how I hit it in KPMG.  It's not quite there.  It's slowly getting there.  It was better than yesterday. Hopefully over the weekend I'm going to get to where I want to.Q. Being as soft as it is, are the green speeds where you expected them to be and are you comfortable with the green speeds?INBEE PARK: I hit probably every putt short, I missed it short.  I think that's what everybody has been doing.  It's hard to think that you have to smash the putts at a U.S. Open.  That's where putts are really, really slow.  You can't hit it hard enough to get there. Yeah, I would like them a little quicker, but obviously it's really tough with the soft conditions and the rain we're getting.  I just felt like I was stupid because every hole I stood over and I hit it harder and I kept coming short.  It's a little bit disappointing.  Par is always a good friend here.Q. You've got to be pleased to be that close?INBEE PARK: Yeah, it's always fun.  It's always so much fun being in contention in a major championship and I really know how it feels like.  It's very exciting.  Yeah, to have a chance at a trophy on the weekend is always so much to play for and definitely gives me a lot of motivation.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT