U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 10, 2015
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MIKE TROSTEL: My pleasure to introduce Inbee Park, a round of 68 and 70 for a 36-hole total of 138, 2-under par.  Inbee a three-time USGA champion and two-time Women's Open champion.  Anytime you're here in the media center, it means good things.  Can you talk about how the round -- your first round ended and your second round began?INBEE PARK: Yeah, overall I played 22 holes today and I made -- I felt like I played consistent out there today.  The ball-striking was a little bit better than yesterday.  Not perfect, not where I wanted it to be, but I was able to get it up and down.  And I gave myself a lot of opportunities today.  I hit a lot of good putts, a couple of them just lipped out.  Yeah, I feel like the first two rounds at the Women's Open feels great.  Yeah, I feel like I'm in good position.MIKE TROSTEL: 11 fairways today, 13 greens, and 31 putts.  You mentioned leaving a few putts short out there.  Does it take a little bit of a mental adjustment at the Women's Open to make sure you get the putts in the hole?INBEE PARK: Yeah, it's really tricky and it really gets me all the time.  Every time I stood over it and I know this is the U.S. Open, I just keep leaving it short.  And it's disappointing, because it just stops just in front of the edge.  If I had more speed, I would have made more putts today.  I think everybody is making the same mistake here.  I'm trying to get adjusted to the speed a little bit more over the next two days.  I feel like I'm putting really good, but the speed is a little bit off.MIKE TROSTEL: You're in good position in 36 holes.  You have to feel comfortable about where you sit.INBEE PARK: Yeah, because it's really a good position to be in.  Obviously after two rounds.  And we still have a lot of golf to play, but my goal would be to be under par and hopefully I can hold the trophy by the end of Sunday.  But too early to think about the trophy, I'm just going to try to play the course and try to make a lot of pars and birdies if it comes.  I'm just trying to be real patient.Q. You mentioned your ability to keep your emotions on an even keel in an event like this, how does it help you in the pressure of a major championship that you can't keep your emotions pretty steady?INBEE PARK: Obviously it really helps you, because you can stay calm and not to overreact on anything.  I mean it's not -- it's not good to have too much of ups and downs on the golf course.  I'd rather make all pars than seven birdies and seven bogeys.  If you stay calm, it gives you more opportunities and just a little bit more steady golf.Q. My question to you, if you can describe this a little bit, I know that every player here spends a lot of time working on ball-striking, fundamentals, putting, chipping.  It always appears to me that patience is without question the most important thing that you have to have in this type of event.  Can you talk to me about how you actually approach that part of your game, maintaining your patience making par after par after par?INBEE PARK: Yeah, I mean, you kind of get tired when you're making too many pars in a row or you miss so many opportunities at a birdie, you get a bit disappointed. But I have to keep reminding myself that this is the Women's Open and par is a good score.  That's what I always tell myself.  I think today I played 22 holes and I thought that it's good because of where I'm finishing today, at least.  I just try to think really positive.  I think it's all about the positive thinking, you've just got to deal with what you have.Q. You started out this morning, what kind of condition was the course in?  Did you find it playing long or did it play less long?INBEE PARK: At 6:45, it was probably playing a club longer at every hole.  It was definitely playing long this morning, but this afternoon it's starting to get a little bit more -- the balls are flying a little bit more in the air.  It was a little bit better, but obviously I still think the golf course is really long.  I hit a lot of 5-woods, probably three holes I hit 2-iron.  There's not that many opportunities out there. I really tried today, but I still feel pretty good about the way I'm playing.Q. As the greens dry out and get more difficult, do you prefer that?INBEE PARK: First thing, I really like the way it is right now.  But on the greens the way I'm putting, I would like it to be quicker.  I think it's half and half.  When this gets fast and dry, I think it's almost impossible to stop it.  Yeah, but I would like the course to play a little bit shorter, so I guess I'm more on the faster and drier side.Q. Do you like these kind of greens where even the short putts get a break to them?INBEE PARK: I do.  I like a lot of -- I like the greens that they break a lot, maybe a right edge putt or left edge putt.  I think that's more tricky.  You obviously know where it's going to go, it's just a matter of how much it's going to go.  So you work on your speed to get your speed right.MIKE TROSTEL: One more question about course conditions.  They cut the rough between the first and second rounds just based on the weather conditions.  When you missed the fairway, could you tell there was a big difference in the ball sitting down in that rough?INBEE PARK: Well, I was lucky I was only in the first cut today.  Three times I missed, I was in the first cut.  And I didn't get to experience the thick rough.  But around the greens I got in it a couple of times and it was really, really thick.  I couldn't really control the ball. Yesterday, some bad lies we got, I just tried to make par from there.MIKE TROSTEL: 138, 2-under par for 36 holes.  Best of luck on the weekend.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT