VOLUNTEERS OF AMERICA NORTH TEXAS SHOOTOUT PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 2, 2015
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Inbee, great round again today.   Will you take us through your day? 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I mean, today was‑‑ I'd say an average day.   I definitely left a couple putts out there.   I had one three‑putt and 33 putts total today, so quite a lot of putts compared to the last two days.   But that also means my ball‑striking, I hit more greens today.   So yeah, ball‑striking was I think pretty solid.   I mis‑drove it a couple times and that brought me a little bit of trouble, so I made a couple bogeys.   There was really birdie chances there that was just so close but just didn't go in.   Yeah, I feel like I'm rolling the ball much better this week, and even if I had 33 putts today, I feel good about my putting, so yeah, still leading the tournament. 

Q.   What does a final hole like that do for you, to hit one, lands out a foot, knock it in and tie for the lead?   What does that do for you heading into tomorrow?
INBEE PARK:   I think it's always good momentum going into tomorrow when you finish with a birdie, and obviously all day today I hit good shots, but inside 10 feet it wasn't going in.   I had to hit it closer.   That was definitely a really nice way to finish. 
I've been playing really well this week, so I'm confident with 18.   I remember two years ago I made a birdie there to win, so it's been a lucky hole for me, and hopefully it is tomorrow, too.

Q.   What's your comfort level on this course? 
INBEE PARK:   I mean, I love this golf course.   Some golfers say they have a lot of slopey fairways and it's tough and challenging to play, but I like a couple holes like that and I think I love the challenge here, and obviously the golf course is playing really similar to two years ago with the dry conditions now.   Yeah, it reminds me of a lot of good memories here when I come here, so yeah, I think having a lot of fun, even if I don't win tomorrow, I'm getting a lot of things from this tournament.

Q.   At this point do you scoreboard watch at all?   Do you pay attention to I'm climbing up there and I'm looking and you can tell by the crowds and how they're reacting?
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I do look at the leaderboard, and I like to see where I am, what I need to do.   Yeah, I definitely watch the scoreboard. 

Q.   You said that conditions have dried out a little bit.   Some of your balls got a pretty good jump when they hit the greens except for 18.   Was that just wedge game versus your mid‑irons?
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, it was definitely‑‑ the greens are still soft if you hit the wedges; it can hold.   But obviously with the long irons, a couple of greens like 17 it's really firm, and a couple of greens are getting really firm, and you're going to get bounces tomorrow, definitely, and it's going to be I think really similar to last year and two years ago.

Q.   Your shot on 17, were you surprised to see it release that much?
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I thought it was a really good shot.   I knew that green was firm but I couldn't have hit the other club.   It wouldn't have carried the front.

Q.   With so many people up there and the way the course is playing, going into tomorrow do you take an aggressive approach regardless?
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, there's a lot of contenders out there that's within like two shots.   Whoever plays well tomorrow is going to win, so I definitely need to play aggressively and score well tomorrow to win.   I think it'll take three or more to win tomorrow.   I need to definitely improve myself from today. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT