VOLUNTEERS OF AMERICA NORTH TEXAS SHOOTOUT PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 1, 2015
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Looked like you really got it rolling there today, didn't you?
INBEE PARK:   Yeah.   Yesterday my ball‑striking wasn't good, but today was much better, and obviously last two days I've putted really good, which I have been struggling this year, so I'm just happy the way I'm rolling the ball.   Yeah, looking forward to the next two days.

Q.   Yesterday was kind of an uncharacteristic week for you.   What's better this week?
INBEE PARK:   Putting.   I mean, last week I think I have reached like 32, 33 putts every day, and this week obviously these first two days, I had like 28, 29 putts, so that's a big difference.   I feel like I'm getting a lot of looks at birdie, as well, and a lot of the putts last week, I just knew straightaway I was missing, but this week I'm hitting a lot of good putts, even if it's not going in.   I'm just really close.   Yeah, I feel like my stroke is much better.

Q.   Strong way to finish there; pretty excited about that heading into the weekend?
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I think a couple birdies on the last two holes will definitely help going into the weekend, and I know how this golf course plays because I won here a couple years ago, so yeah, I mean, I'm still going to need to shoot a couple good rounds, but yeah, I feel like I'm in good shape.

Q.   You've won here, so you've got to feel pretty comfortable on this golf course, right?
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I think it really suits my eye here.   This course is playing a little bit different to the last couple years obviously with the rain, but I think it's drying out a lot better now, and the greens are in really good shape.

Q.   One win so far this year, a lot of top 10s.   How do you assess your year so far?
INBEE PARK:   I think it's in a good position.   I started off the year really good, and I really feel good about the game.   I just need to get a little bit better with the putter, a little bit more consistent, but yeah, I'm happy.

Q.   Right when you started talking last year about being better with the putter is when you really got better with the putter.   Do you think that's going to happen this year?
INBEE PARK:   Hopefully that's going to be it.   Yeah, hopefully‑‑ I mean, I just changed the putter this week, and hopefully this putter can stay in the bag for a long time.

Q.   You always talk about the putter.   It seems like when you're not winning basically it's the putter.   I was just wondering, do you seem like you kind the hit the ball the same almost each week?   It doesn't seem like you really ever complain about your ball‑striking?
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I mean, the ball‑striking, there is in a couple days, in a day where you're not too happy with the ball‑striking, obviously, but this year has been very consistent with ball‑striking, and last year, as well.   I mean, this week is not the best ball‑striking week for me.   Yesterday was just a little bit off.   But yeah, still, you get somewhere on the green, and the putting, you know, is very important, even if you're 15, 20 feet away and if you're five feet away, you can still‑‑ 20 feet away, you can still make a birdie, and five feet you can still miss the putt and make a par. 
I've noticed that a lot the last few weeks that I've played.   I hit a lot of great shots, but if the putter doesn't work, you're just going to walk away with a par.

Q.   Pretty crazy the way you lost in Hawai'i.   Is that a motivating factor, and have you ever seen anything like that with the way she finished? 
INBEE PARK:   No, I've obviously never seen anything like that before, and I don't think I will ever again.   I mean, if you're going to lose, it's better to lose that way, I guess, instead of making a bogey or making a par and losing it.   I mean, it's just‑‑ the couple shots she hit in there, obviously you've got to say there was a little bit of luck, as well. 
It's just God was on her side and not my side that week.   But I still feel like I played good.

Q.   I was going to say it's pretty unlucky.   Do you kind of feel like you're due?
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, hopefully it's coming, and obviously we're only one third of the way, and we still have a lot more tournaments to play and a lot of important ones to play.   I'm just going to try to keep my game in shape and just, yeah, play hard in the summer.

Q.   Were conditions better today, another day drier?
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I think the fairway is getting a lot more drier and the greens are getting drier, so it's going to start to firm up a little bit, so it's going to play somewhat similar to last year the next two days.   If we get a little bit of a wind, it's a tricky golf course.   If the greens are‑‑ even with a lot of rain, they're rolling so pure.   It's a great week for putting.

Q.   Is the golf course tougher when it's wet and you can actually hold the fairways there and it's a little wider fairways but it's playing longer, or is it tougher when it's a little firmer but playing a little shorter?
INBEE PARK:   You know, I think I like to see this golf course a little bit shorter.   For me, I'm not a long, long hitter, so I would like to hit a little bit of a shorter iron, like a 9‑iron or a wedge or an 8‑iron instead of like a 6‑iron or 7‑iron.   It's obviously tougher to go in with those irons.   Bounces on the greens you can kind of control and then the short and try to get it there, so yeah, hopefully it dries out and plays a little bit shorter.

Q.   Lydia has never missed a cut in an LPGA event, and this is her 51st start.   She's got 50 straight cuts, 18 years old.   She's 4‑over going into today.   What do you think about that streak? 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, it's a pretty amazing streak, and obviously she's proven herself that she can play like that, obviously, to everybody.   You know, even if she had a bad first day, I think she's still very capable of making the cut today.   Yeah, she's just so consistent.

Q.   Stacy joked that she wouldn't be surprised at all to see her in contention on Sunday even after that 75. 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, it wouldn't surprise me, either. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT