KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 12, 2015
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Course is playing difficult today.  You had one of the better rounds of the day.  What went right for you?  INBEE PARK: You know, I thought the golf course was playing pretty similar to yesterday.  I thought they were playing quite fair and there wasn't as many birdie opportunities as I thought there would be. Yesterday I played kind of conservative.  It's a major championship and there's not going to be many birdies.  I ended up making a few mistakes yesterday, and looking at the scoring yesterday and this morning, the scoring was still good.  So I thought I should play a little are month aggressive and play for more birdies and seemed like it worked.   Q.  So you were playing more aggressively today?  You were going for it a little bit more?  INBEE PARK: Yeah, some greens they release.  Some greens they seem to hold really good.  It's hole-by-hole different.  But there's definitely a lot of short iron holes here where you have to make birdies.   Q.  As one of the best players in the world, do you enjoy these difficult conditions?  INBEE PARK: I do.  I t seems like it really suits my game.  I've been playing really good golf in the major championships and it's all good to see my game come around in major championships like this and good golf courses like this.  It's a really great test for the game.  Yeah, I think I feel quite confident playing on a tough course.   Q.  What is it about majors that brings out the best in your game?  INBEE PARK: I think everybody tries to concentrate a little bit more extra and a little bit -- I don't know, it's more concentration and more focus, and I think that's why everyone brings their A Game to the major championships.   Q.  What's your strategy tomorrow?  Are you going to play conservative like you did yesterday or are you going to keep going for it?  INBEE PARK: I think today's strategy worked quite good.  I only made two birdies on the par 5s today.  So I'm just going to try to play a little bit more better on the par 5s tomorrow and obviously no bogeys would be nice.  But if I made a couple bogeys, I'm going to try to make up for it with birdies.   Q.  In 2013 you got a lot of attention going for the Slam.  Do you think people are paying a lot of attention to you or are you underappreciated?  INBEE PARK: I still get a lot of focus.  I would like to be a little bit maybe under covered.   Q.  You like that?  INBEE PARK: Yeah, I do.  But it's always not easy to play under pressure, and I've done that before.  But when you play good, you have to handle pressure, as well, so just trying to go day by day.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT