KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 11, 2015
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  2-under today, you have to be pretty happy with your start to this week?  INBEE PARK: Yeah, I mean, 2-under in the first round of a major championship is always not a bad round.  I hit a lot of good shots today.  But my putting was a little bit bad today.  I had 33 putts.  But 2-under and it's been a long week and still three days to play.  Yeah, I'm happy with the way I started.   Q.  In the morning it seems like a lot of people are around the 2-under, 3-under number.  Is that what you expected from this golf course?  INBEE PARK: We just kind of didn't know what this course was going to play like.  Obviously it was playing a little bit firmer and faster on the greens today than what we thought it would play.  I think the scoring is actually better than what I thought it would be.  I think because they have a lot of par 5s here, it's scorable.  You can make birdies on the par 5s.  You've just got to make pars on the tough par 3s.  I think that's kind of the strategy.   Q.  What holes were playing toughest for you?  INBEE PARK: The long holes, No. 11, No. 4, No. 3, the par 3 on No. 16.   Q.  And then obviously you won this event two years in a row.  Do you feel any added pressure coming back here?  I know it's a new venue was it was the last two years but still a pretty big event?  INBEE PARK: I think everybody feels a little pressure because it's a major tournament and everybody wants to do well.  I feel the pressure on what I want to do and I want to win.  Yeah, nothing bad about the pressure.  Because it is a major tournament and this is a great event, that's why we feel the pressure.  So I'm happy to feel the pressure.   Q.  And currently only sitting one back, have to see what happens in the afternoon, but what's the approach going into the final three days of this tournament?  INBEE PARK: I think 2-under every day is a pretty good score.  I think it's just going to get even firmer and faster and it's going to get tougher and tougher.  I'm just going to try to make birdies on the par 5s and just make pars on those tough holes.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT