LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY HERSHEY
April 15, 2015
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   Happy to be joined in the media center by one of the co‑leaders in this event, Inbee Park.   What was the key to your strong close to the round? 
INBEE PARK:   It was a very good day today.   I played very solid.   I hit a lot of great wedge shots out there and judged the wind great and I holed a lot of good putts.   Especially the last putt was a very long putt I holed.   I can't remember how long back I holed that long of a putt. 
Yeah, feels great to finish like that.   I mean, still have a lot more days to play, but I had definitely a good start.
MODERATOR:   Speaking of that putt, how long was it on 18? 
INBEE PARK:   Probably 40‑footer.   40, 45 I think, yeah.
MODERATOR:   Has to be a good feeling to end the day on something like that. 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I mean, it was a tough putt.   I was happy with a two‑putt, but it just went in.   Had a little bit of speed as well, so if I had to work it back if I didn't make it.   I'm happy with the way I finished. 
MODERATOR:   Questions. 

Q.   Must especially feel good to be tied for the lead when you had to deal with the afternoon wind; tomorrow you get to play in the morning.   So more likely you have an advantage tomorrow, right? 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I think afternoon is a little bit more windier than the morning usually, but you just never know with the island weather.   Hopefully we get a little bit calmer day in the morning tomorrow and hopefully we can score well as well. 
You just never know, but hopefully we are on the good side of the draw.

Q.   Do you feel like this is one of your better rounds on this course in the years you've been coming here? 
INBEE PARK:   Is this one of the better rounds?   I played pretty good last couple years and shot 4‑ or 5‑under couple times before.   I don't think I've shot anything under 6, so hopefully I can do that this year. 

Q.   You had such good history here.   What does it take to make that last step and finally win?   I imagine you're a little bit frustrated. 
INBEE PARK:   What is it? 
MODERATOR:   What will it take to win this year? 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, yeah, last couple years I came really close.   You have to make a lot of birdies on this golf course and avoid the bogeys. 
I mean, same with other golf courses, but I think this golf course you just got to judge the wind really good and you got to putt really well. 
But I think it's going to be around 15 to 20, in between there.   If it stays like this.   If it doesn't blow any harder. 

Q.   The long putts you had, the 40‑, 50‑footer, a lot of times people think about the wind and we think about it affecting other shots besides putts.   Obviously putts, too, for you folks out there.   So on that one, was there some special way you played it or did you just cross your fingers or what? 
INBEE PARK:   I think it just had too much speed to actually be bothered by the wind.   Because, I mean, short putts definitely have to read the wind and play the wind. 
Obviously I had the long putts.   I just tried to put it close to the hole.   I had a little bit of speed and just ended up going in the hole, so...
MODERATOR:   Anything else for Inbee? 
Appreciate the time.   Good playing.
INBEE PARK:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT