VOLUNTEERS OF AMERICA NORTH TEXAS SHOOTOUT PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 3, 2015
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   All right.   I'd like to welcome the champion, 2015 champion, Inbee Park to the media center here.   15‑under for the tournament Inbee.   How do you do it out here in Dallas?   
INBEE PARK:   I don't know.   I don't know how I did it, but I did it twice.   Yeah, I mean I love this golf course.   Some people say they have a couple of they say it's tough to play on.   But I really like it.   It seems like it really suits my eye.   And yeah, I've been playing really good the last three years here, and I love to come here and play.   The crowds here, the atmosphere is great, so I love to come here to Texas.  
THE MODERATOR:   It seems that when Sunday comes around you always have a huge surge.   You're just pulling away from the rest of the leaderboard.   What's going through your mind, what's your mentality when you go into the final round.  
INBEE PARK:   You know, I don't do anything special.   I just try to play same as the last three rounds I've played here.   And the main key this week was my putting.   You know, that's been something I've been struggling last couple weeks, in Hawaii and in San Francisco.   I hit the ball great, but I just couldn't putt.   So I tried to give a little bit of a change this week, and this week was totally different putting week for me.   I putted really good.   Even though I missed a couple of short ones, I holed a lot of long‑range putts this week, so yeah, I'm really happy with the way I'm rolling the ball.  
THE MODERATOR:   Now, you classify it as a bad putting day.   I'm pretty sure everybody else would die to have that day.   What did you do to work on your putting?   You said you've been through changes for this week.   What did you do.  
INBEE PARK:   I mean the first‑‑ the big changes is my putter.   I changed my putter this week, and a little bit of tweaks with the degrees of the putters and stuff like that.   Just trying to make the ball go a little bit the way I want to go.  
Yeah, it seems like I found a really good putter.   So I'm very happy to finally be really happy with the putter.   I mean even though it misses, you know, I know what was wrong with the putt.   But sometimes with a couple of weeks, you know, last couple weeks where I didn't know what was wrong with my putter.   And just I was really just struggling.   
So yeah, just happy to find what was the problem and finally solved.  
THE MODERATOR:   Now, it always seems to be a battle of the top for No. 1, you, Lydia and Stacy.   Is that in the back of your mind when you're coming to a tournament?   Do you want to add a few points and go up the rankings as well?   
INBEE PARK:   I don't really try to think so much about the rankings.   I think it's just really out of my mind now.   
When I was No. 1, I probably looked at it a lot more often than what I am right now, but obviously eventually I really want to be back on the top again.   But that's not my only goal this year.   
I'm just trying to play good every week and try to win every week and just play good golf, and hopefully if I can achieve the career Grand Slam this year, that'll be my biggest goal.  
THE MODERATOR:   All right.   I'd like to open it up to questions.   
   
 Q.   How about staying in the fairways?   It seemed like‑‑ how important has that been for your success the past three years?  
INBEE PARK:   Yeah.   There is a few fairways here that you really need to hit, but they are really tough to hit.   
But you know, I found a way to kind of hit the fairway.   Even if I miss the fairway, I know where to miss it.   I feel like I know this golf course really well and play the golf course as well.  
So yeah, I think it's just the experience I have from the last couple of years, and the course was playing quite different this year with the wet conditions.   It was a lot easier to hit the fairway that way because the ball wasn't running as far, so that was an advantage this week that we were able to keep it in the fairway a lot easier.  
   
 Q.   You didn't seem too happy with your chip on No. 11 today.   You didn't seem too happy with your tee shot on 12‑‑ or 11.   You seemed really happy with your approach on number 12.   How key was that hole for you and kind of going through your round how much was that key and your being able to separate yourself?  
INBEE PARK:   I think No. 10, that was definitely a birdie hole, and obviously hitting that chip short and having a bad lip‑out with the putter, that was a really tough break, I think.  
I thought if I could birdie No. 10, I think I thought I could separate myself a little bit from the field and give a lot of confidence and momentum going into the Back 9.   But obviously it didn't happen on No. 10.   And obviously the No. 11 tee shot was just I think just from a little bit of frustration from the previous hole, obviously.  
And number 12, I finally got a really good iron shot, and I didn't really need to make the putt.   I mean it wasn't really close.   So I was really happy with that hole.   That was really important because I think number 12 that gave me two strokes of lead.   
And it was a tough hole to make a birdie on.   So it was a really good birdie.  
   
 Q.   How hard is it to get a shot back to that hole?   Is that difficult hole to play?  
INBEE PARK:   I think it's mostly the tee shot was the harder part about that hole, because you can miss the tee shot left or right.   It's a tougher shot.   And it's not a short hole.   So I hit a perfect tee shot.   I only had a 9‑iron in, so I had a perfect distance.  
   
 Q.   You talked a minute ago about 10, but right before that, No. 9 the, Lexi had a shot that obviously set up a birdie, but before she even made the birdie to tie, you made the long putt.   Talk about how that kind of changes at least the momentum.   
INBEE PARK:   It was a little bit weird front nine because I missed a short one at No. 4 and 5, missed a short birdie putt.   I misread the putt on No. 5, you know.   I thought I wasted a couple of opportunities there.   But it went in on No. 9.   
So I think that really got me going into the momentum and that definitely gave me a lot of confidence on the greens, obviously because I thought maybe today is not the day for me on the putting because it didn't want to go in on the front nine.   So No. 9 definitely gave me some kind of momentum going into the Back 9.   And obviously No. 10 was disappointing, but it's been good since then.   
   
 Q.   How difficult is it to play with the lead in the conditions?   You said before that you needed to be 3 or 4‑under to win, bogey‑free, 65?  
INBEE PARK:   Yeah.   It was tough conditions, but scoring seems like it was really good out there.   Everybody really played well.   I didn't expect, you know, that many people in the two digits after four rounds, but obviously everybody got really fired up and everybody played good, and obviously looking at the leaderboard and looking at everybody playing good, that really motivated me to play well as well.   
So I said maybe three birdies is not enough, I need to make more, and I went and made more.   
THE MODERATOR:   Now coming up 18, a few weeks back you were kind of coming up for the win actually, had a chip‑in to go to playoff.   What was your mindset coming down 18 today knowing that Lexi wasn't too far behind, but still, just kind of a little bit hesitant that maybe that would happen again?   
INBEE PARK:   Yeah.   I mean I never really‑‑ when I had a two‑stroke lead I never said, I probably won this tournament, being the par‑5.   I said even if it misstrokes, then I would see same from holing it from the fairway.   I thought maybe Lexi might do that, too.   She might made a 2 on the last hole.   
So I haven't won this tournament yet, so I just really tried to play hard until the end, and I think that should be my mindset every week, because the result was great.   
THE MODERATOR:   Any more additional questions?   
   
 Q.   Inbee, the past three years you seem pretty comfortable out here.   And I know your post‑game speech you said that this course has been pretty good to you.   What about Irving or what about this course makes you feel comfortable playing on this course?  
INBEE PARK:   You know, I think this golf course, a lot of the fairways are sloped left to right, and I have a little bit of a draw.   So my ball doesn't kick as much right as other balls.   So I think it was a little bit easier for me to work the ball a little bit the other way because when you hit the fairway‑‑ I hit more fairways than I think other girls here.   And it's a little bit easier on my eyes.  
And I think it's just‑‑ not exactly about the setup or the golf course, but I think it's just really the mindset whether you like this golf course or not.   I think this golf course I had a really great memory in 2013, and since then I really try to tell myself I really love this golf course and I can play good on this golf course.   I think that raises the confidence level and really your mentality.   
THE MODERATOR:   All right.   Inbee Park.   Well done.   
INBEE PARK:   Thanks.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT