HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 7, 2015
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Inbee, you just keep playing great.   You've been so consistent, it's amazing. 
INBEE PARK:   I played another solid day today.   I played really good out there.   I gave myself a lot of opportunities, and I didn't make all of them, but I was able to handle myself out there being patient out there and no bogeys out there is a really great result. 
Yeah, I hit a lot of shots really close and probably could have made a couple two, three more.   But still have tomorrow, and yeah, hopefully my putter works tomorrow.

Q.   Taking last Sunday into account, this is your fourth round without a bogey on the card.   So you must be really thrilled how well you're keeping it together. 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I think it's because I play aggressively.   I'm not afraid of bogeys.   I can make bogeys out there but I've just got to make more birdies.   I mean, same thing tomorrow, I'm not going to think about no bogeys and how many holes.   I'm just going to play same as what I did for the last three holes, and I'm not afraid of defeat.   So just go out there and play tomorrow. 

Q.   We are all a bit excited, not sure if you're aware but tomorrow we have No.1, No.2, No. 3 in the world playing together.   That is going to be some day. 
INBEE PARK:   I think it's going to be a really fun day tomorrow.   It's a great leaderboard and everybody, all the fans are looking forward to seeing our play tomorrow, and having a two‑shot lead over No.1 and No. 3 is a great result. 
Hopefully I can keep my lead till the end, and, yeah, just keep playing great. 

Q.   How much do you want that No. 1 Rolex Ranking back? 
INBEE PARK:   It's just, you know, I want it, I just know I want it, but I'm just not going to push myself too hard to get something.   I mean, it's not something‑‑ it's something that if you push for, it's just hard to get.   Just a couple of wins and playing great golf, and it's going to come, so I'm just going to not rush anything and just play good golf. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT