HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 5, 2015
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Very solid opening round here in Singapore, where you really started to find some good form. 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I had a really good round last week, the last day in Thailand.   I felt like my putter was coming back a little bit better.
Today was a really good day.   I had a bogey‑free round, especially on this golf course, this golf course is a very challenging golf course and I was able to manage myself with a bogey‑free round which I'm really proud of.   Yeah, I feel very good, a lot more comfortable over the putter. 

Q.   You played a very strategic game because the front nine is harder, and the back nine, you really kicked into gear on the back nine. 
INBEE PARK:   I started on the front nine, and the front nine, it was the tougher nine to play.   I didn't play too aggressively on the front nine.   I made a couple birdies on the par 5s but I didn't‑‑ I wasn't able to do what I wanted to do.   But I was able to make a birdie on No.9 and that kind of got me started on doing things. 
The back nine was a great nine.   I holed a lot of putts on the back nine, hit great shots.   Yeah, if I can play the back nine like that, it's going to be a good week. 

Q.   The greens here are very big and hole locations are 35 paces on.   You really have to trust your yardage and your caddie. 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I think you have to trust your caddie.   These are big greens and you have to pace yourself really well on the greens.   Yeah, it's a tough green to read, as well.   It's very grainy greens, and I hit a lot of shots close today.   I think today's pins are one of the easiest pins we're going to get all week, so it's good that I took advantage of that. 

Q.   You shot 6‑under today, a very consistent round of golf; even through eight, you birdied the ninth and then just kicked into gear after that. 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, the front nine is a tougher nine on the Serapong Golf Course.   I didn't play too aggressively on the front nine, but the back nine I had a lot of shots.   I hit a lot of shots close and I was able to hole a lot of putts on the back nine, which we have to take advantage of.   Yeah, it was a good round, bogey‑free round, a very solid round, and I putted very good today, so I'm very happy with that. 

Q.   The last time I spoke to you, you said that was something you were working on.   Is it where you want it to be at the moment?
INBEE PARK:   If I can put like today every day, yeah, that's definitely where I wanted to be.   I've always been up‑and‑down and I had a couple of good days of putting and a couple of bad days of putting, so if I can even that out a little bit, it's going to be good putting.   Yeah, I feel like it's coming back slowly.

Q.   Tell us about the conditions out there, very, very hot and humid; does it bother you? 
INBEE PARK:   We played in hot weather last week.   This week, today, I teed off in the second group off, very early, so I think it wasn't as hot as now, so I took a little advantage of that, as well.   It's hot but everybody expects to be hot in Singapore and we play hot. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT