PURE SILK BAHAMAS LPGA CLASSIC
February 4, 2015
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Run me through last week.   You played very well. 
INBEE PARK:   Last week, yeah, I just haven't been putting that well last week.   The first couple round the putting wasn't there.   Round three and four, I was getting much better, so I got my confidence back a little bit there.   So, yeah, just first week back, I didn't really expect that much and I just thought first couple tournaments, just get the feel of the tournament and just get it going again and, yeah, that's just what exactly I did.   And this week as well, I know I played I played with probably less expectations than the middle of the year, I'm not like a quick starter, I'm a little bit of a slow starter and I usually play well in the summer.   So if I can start something quicker, that would be nice, but I'm just trying to enjoy myself in the Bahamas.

Q.   Take what you can get.   Perfect.   Did you work on anything in the off season?   Did you put your clubs away for a little while?
INBEE PARK:   About two or three weeks.   Then I worked for about a month or so before I start. 
I just wasn't happy with my putting last year, so I tried to work on the putting a little bit more.   Obviously, the number one in the world now is only 17 years old, I'm getting older, so I need to watch my body a little bit.   So, I tried to get stronger and a little bit more flexible, so I can prevent some injuries.   Just working more like rehab on my shoulder and my back and shoulder is usually the weak spot of my body, so I try to strengthen that a little bit.

Q.   Do you get sore?
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, like tightness in the front. 

Q.   So you been doing a lot more stretching before and after?
INBEE PARK:   Yeah.   Yeah. 

Q.   You're washed up at what, 25?   26?
INBEE PARK:   26, yeah. 
(Laughter.)

Q.   Old woman. 
INBEE PARK:   No, not old.   Feels older here.   Like so many people are playing like they're born in like 1995. 

Q.   I see that.   All right.   Any changes to the stroke?
INBEE PARK:   Not a big change but I made the putter two degrees flat.   I like my hands a little bit closer to my body when I putt.   But whatever I did though with the regular putter my toe was getting too far off the ground, so I just flattened the putter a little bit, so like the putter has stayed on the ground and I like the feel of that. 

Q.   You flattened it two degrees?
INBEE PARK:   Two degrees. 

Q.   Okay.   All right.   Then you played well here last year. 
INBEE PARK:   I didn't play here.

Q.   Oh, you never played here before?
INBEE PARK:   I played two years ago when it rained. 

Q.   Oh, okay.   So maybe ‑‑ okay?
INBEE PARK:   Pretty much, yeah.

Q.   So course set up you're saying you think you're feeling starting fresh?
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, yeah, I like the golf course here and I'm just trying to enjoy myself out here.   I feel like my game has gotten better than the first tournament, just by looking at the practices and stuff and, yeah, after this really we have another two week, I have another two weeks off, so I can kind of see myself ‑‑ I'm just going to test what I've done for the off season and obviously if something is wrong here, I can work on it for two more weeks.   So, yeah, I think that just the main thing is just trying to get the confidence back and trying to get to the level where I was in the last year when I was playing hot, so, yeah. 

Q.   Obviously with Lydia going number one, that gives you a little we always say the ranking gives you guys a little motivation, something to work for.   Is it funny that it's not stay see any more, that now it's Lydia who probably doesn't know how big of an honor it is or what's going to be happening?
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, it was actually not a surprise.   I don't know, she doesn't play, she didn't play that many events like not as many as stay see or me, so like her averages are a little bit differently to us.   So I thought at some point if she keeps playing that consistently, she's going to take‑over.   And, yeah, it came pretty quick.   17 years old and number one in the world is quite an honor and it's just pretty amazing.   She's very consistent player and she's a very good player.   And that gives me, obviously, more motivation to play on for this season and only my only goal this year was to win a British Open, but here you go, it's another thing to do.

Q.   What did you say your goal was?
INBEE PARK:   British open. 

Q.   Oh, okay. 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah. 

Q.   So that's your main goal?
INBEE PARK:   Yeah. 

Q.   Okay.   Cool. 
INBEE PARK:   If I can get that in the number one spot back again by the middle of the year or end of year, that would be great, but I've been in this position before, so. 

Q.   It's old news for you. 
INBEE PARK:   Well I'll just work hard and see where the numbers come out.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT