HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 8, 2015
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How are you feeling right now?   What was working for you today especially?  
INBEE PARK:   I mean, it's been really solid all week, and today was another solid day.   I didn't make mistakes.   I was bogey‑free.   There was a lot of opportunities out there but I was only able to make two.   But I mean, luckily it was enough.   Lydia and Stacy didn't play well enough.   But they are great players who can post 5‑ , 6‑under, but it wasn't their day today.   So I think I was a little bit lucky there.  
Yeah, everything's been working fine.   Just a couple more putts, but everything else tee‑to‑green was perfect all week.   
Very happy to win the HSBC Women's Champions.   I wasn't able to play well the last seven years, but I was able to pull it off this year and with a great finish.   I was bogey‑free for 72 holes and just so proud of myself.   
I would like to really thank HSBC for holding a great tournament.   It's a world‑class tournament and I love to play in this tournament, especially in particular to Guy Harvey‑Samuel and Giles Morgan and Sentosa and also Sentosa Golf Club, the LPGA and all of the core sponsors and fans and media for supporting this tournament.   It's an honour to be in this spot.   Hopefully this is a good sign for this season and hopefully many more to come.   
   
 Q.   You've had your family following you this week, and I believe you had a bet with your father on the number of birdies you would make.   How did that turn out for you?   
INBEE PARK:   I mean, I had a bet with him, because I didn't really like this golf‑‑ it's a tough golf course.   So it's hard to make birdies.   
So he was telling me, every birdie you make, I'll give you $500 (laughter).   So with the extra money I made this week, I made 15 birdies with no bogeys, I said, my make bogey, I pay $1,000.   So I was really trusting myself (laughter).   Thanks to my family for supporting me and I'm really happy to win.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT