HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 4, 2015
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MOLLY GALLATIN:   I'd like to welcome Inbee Park into the interview room.   
Inbee, three tournaments so far, two Top‑10s, business as usual for you.   Are you pleased with your start thus far?   
INBEE PARK:   I didn't play that bad.   I mean, first tournament, I was a little bit rusty and didn't play as well as I want to.   But the next two tournaments have been good.   I had some up‑and‑downs, but especially last week, I had some bad rounds and good rounds.   
But I feel like I'm warmed up now, and it's not that bad of a start.   I mean, I started last couple seasons really good by winning the first tournament and finishing second in the first tournament last two years, but compared to that, it's a little bit slower start.  
But there's so many tournaments to play and there's about 25 more or so to play.   So looking forward to it.   I had a really good putting day on the last round in Thailand, so hopefully I can keep that going this week.  
MOLLY GALLATIN:   What were your goals coming into this year?   
INBEE PARK:   My main goal was winning the British Open.   That would be my dream until I retire, until I get that win.   
Hopefully many wins will be nice.   But obviously I let Lydia have my No. 1 spot earlier this year.   So if I can capture that back at some point, that will be a very good goal to have.   
But I'm just trying to have fun out here and it's not‑‑ not worried about so many numbers or so many stats or things like that.   I think enjoying is the most important thing I need to worry about.  
MOLLY GALLATIN:   You mentioned the No. 1 spot.   Is it for you a lot less pressure being in the No.2 position and getting to come out here and not have everyone chasing you?   
INBEE PARK:   I think so.   I've been in the No. 1 spot and No.2 spot before, and it's a lot more relaxing position I would guess.   You don't have as much pressure as No. 1, and I mean, people probably expect a little bit less from you being in the No. 1 spot.   
But I'm trying to play the same game when I was No. 1, and I've experienced that before and I feel like I'm mature and I feel like I'm ready for the position.   So I'm just going to go out and just play my game and just see in this case capture that back.  
MOLLY GALLATIN:   Yesterday afternoon you participated in the HSBC fashion show.   Did you have fun with it, and what do you think of it?   
INBEE PARK:   I really liked the outfit.   The dress was beautiful.   A lot of people said it was really good.  
It's something different to golf.   We are always in the heat and wear our golf shoes and we don't get to wear heels or get to do what women get to do.   Like sometimes, if you get to do something different, I think it's just so much fun, and if you can make people laugh, if you can make people smile, I think, what can you do better.   
   
 Q.   Thursday is International Women's Day.   I don't know whether you knew that.   
INBEE PARK:   International Women's Day.  
   
 Q.   What does it mean to you and, and what do you think it should mean to people from apart obviously it's about women.   
INBEE PARK:   International Women's Day, it's actually the first time I ever heard of it.   I think maybe a good day for women and good day for women to participate in any sports or anything.   
I think it's a day for women, so we do whatever we want, everything is forgiven and just, yeah, I think that's it.   
   
 Q.   I don't know whether you know but there's a stretch of holes, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 which is called the Dragon's Tooth, because it's a Dragon's Tooth in the bunker‑‑ the general manager's idea.   I think it's quite an interesting stretch of holes because you have that difficult third and fourth, the par5, long par 4.   Do you think that's a make‑or‑break?   Are you careful around that?   Can you just talk us through that?   
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I think so.   My 3 to 7 is definitely one of the toughest hole on the golf course and there's definitely a lot of hazard that comes into play.   You have to be careful.  
If you hit good tee shots, you can make birdies; but if you don't hit good tee shots, you can make big numbers there.   So I mean, I would be happy with pars there.   I mean, except for the par5, I think the par5, you definitely have a chance for a birdie, but then other holes is quite tough hole, especially No. 6.   
No. 6 is quite a tough hole and I still am not decided what to do with my tee shot whether I go left side, right side, short of the bunker.   There's so many options.   
I think that's why this golf course is so much fun.   You can play around in so many ways.   You can do so many things on this golf course and I think it's one much the toughest golf courses we play.   It's in great condition.   I played Monday and it was a little bit slower, the greens, but I played today and it was quick.   So I think it's in good shape to play.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about your British Open aspirations?   
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I'm already looking forward to playing the British Open and we're playing in Turnberry this year, but it's going to be a very memorable place to go.   I think last year, I did really good in the British Open and ended up finishing fourth.   But I really had a good chance at a win.   So if I can do something similar to that last year, it will be nice.   
Every British Open I've played the last couple years, I had so much pressure on myself.   So this year my main goal would be getting the pressure off a little bit and just playing like a normal tournament, which is going to be hard.   But I'm going to try to just stay the same.   
   
 Q.   Do you like links golf?   
INBEE PARK:   I do.   I do like the links golf course style.   I like the wind.   I like the challenge there.   So yeah, hopefully I can do‑‑ hold the trophy there.   
   
 Q.   You had green speeds last week of up to 14 I think on the Stimpmeter.   Is it easier to come to somewhere like this where it's a little bit slower to adjust to?  
INBEE PARK:   Well, it's a very grainy green, so when it gets slower, I think it gets tougher, because it breaks a lot more than what you think.   But the greens are a little bit quicker; it breaks a little bit less, it gets less grainy.   So I rather prefer less grainy greens because I'm not the best putter on grainy greens.   
So I would like it to be fast, but I mean, last week it with a grainy greens but it was fast, fast enough to take the grain out of play a little bit.   It is getting similar to that, this golf course.   So I think I can put similar to last eagle.  
   
 Q.   Do you notice any other changes to the course from last year?   
INBEE PARK:   I think that they are quite similar condition to last year.   I think all the greens, I think it was a little bit slower, but it's pretty much the same as last year now.   
MOLLY GALLATIN:   Thank you, Inbee.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT