FUBON LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY TAIWAN MOBILE
October 31, 2014
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Happy to be joined by Inbee Park after a great 10‑under today.   What was really working for you out there? 
INBEE PARK:   Well, everything was working really good out there today.   I probably didn't hit as close as yesterday but I holed a lot of putts today, and this season, I've been struggling with my putter. 
This week has been totally different to what I've been putting this season.   I'm doing really well on the greens this week and obviously two days without the wind here in Taiwan is really unusual and I thought I should take advantage of that for two days and I feel like I did that. 
THE MODERATOR:   You really had it going in the middle of your round.   Did 59 enter your mind at all? 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, definitely thought it was possible going into 13, 14, because coming down the stretch, I thought it was a lot of birdie holes.   Especially the last, it's a par 5.   Yeah, I definitely had that in my mind.   I had a score this year, 61, which was my best round and I really wanted to beat that one.   But yeah, just came one short. 
THE MODERATOR:   How important was it for you to go low today?   A lot of people put good rounds together.   How important was it for you and your chances this weekend to keep putting up numbers? 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, if the weather stays like this, it's not going to be a freebie for me.   I still need to play quite good.   I shot 8‑under and 10‑under for two days and I'm only leading by three.   That tells how the course is playing really easy and everybody is playing well on this golf course. 
Yeah, playing with Shanshan today helped me a lot to go lower obviously because Shanshan played really good, especially on the front nine, we were making birdies on pretty much every hole through like, four, five.   We got off to a really good start which was the key to playing well today. 

Q.   On 18 green, you tried to make the birdie, were you aware that you might be breaking the record again?   Mirim Lee already broke your record before?
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I didn't know Mirim shot 10‑under before.   I remember shooting 9‑under here in the first event and I didn't know if 10‑under was enough to beat that record.   I was trying to make a birdie to go lower and tie my own record. 
So yeah, I think I had that in my mind, but also the chip was not good. 

Q.   Did you feel you were struggling before the LPGA Championship and if you do, how do you adjust? 
INBEE PARK:   I was struggling on the greens but not overall.   My game has improved a lot this year.   I'm hitting the ball a lot consistently and I've been consistent all this season.   I just couldn't hole the putts.   That's why I couldn't win but I was still finishing in the top 5s, top threes, just not really winning any tournaments until Wegman's. 
But after, Wegman's played really good golf but just a couple of putts didn't drop.   So I finished a lot in second and third place.   But I think I definitely want to take this opportunity to win. 

Q.   So there are two more rounds to go, and you are right now 18‑under.   What's the champion's score you think will be?
INBEE PARK:   I think it all depends on the weather.   If it stays like this, then I think like my goal number to go is probably going to be like 20, 30. 

Q.   What's your personal record for 18 holes in relation to par?
INBEE PARK:   I remember when I won‑‑ I think it was like 27‑‑ I think the LPGA record is like 27, 28.   I shot like 11‑under the last day so 23 is my record. 

Q.   Can you describe the eagle for us?
INBEE PARK:   It was about 82 yards.   I had a 58 degree wedge. 

Q.   You go back to the world No. 1 place after you're married and now you play very well in this tournament.   Do you think it's brought luck? 
INBEE PARK:   I think it doesn't make me feel that much of a difference to me to be honest.   I feel like I feel more comfortable‑‑ I haven't won any tournament since I got married, so this is going to be my first one if I win this week. 
Yeah, I feel like marriage life is a new beginning, so yeah, hopefully I start this week. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT