FUBON LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY TAIWAN MOBILE
October 30, 2014
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   The back nine you really found the pace of the greens toward the end. 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, the front nine I struggled.   Probably missed my opportunities a little on the front nine.   I hit the ball really solid all day, and on the back nine, everything seemed to drop.   I can't remember the last time I putted like this.   It's been a really good putting day, so I'm really happy about that. 
I really concentrated on my putting this week and tried to improve a little bit and I practiced a lot on the greens this week, and the hard work is paying off so I'm really happy.

Q.   That's an ominous sign when you're working on your putting to send to the rest of the field.   You've shot 63 around here, joint‑course record at the moment, along with Shanshan Feng, and a very different golf course today, not that much breeze. 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, this golf course can play really easy or really tough depending on the wind.   Today was obviously not a windy day.   It was a perfect scoring condition day and the greens were rolling good, no wind. 
So we hit a lot of shots really close and I hit a lot of short irons in.   So it was a fun day and there is birdies everywhere.   So it was a really good day.

Q.   Certainly married life is suiting your golf game, too. 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I can't really seem to find a difference.   It's only been obviously two or three weeks.   So, yeah, I feel comfortable and yeah, I'm just trying to play my best golf. 

Q.   The course really is playing extremely well, indeed.   How slick are the greens? 
INBEE PARK:   They are quite quick downgrain, especially, because these greens can get so much quick when the wind picks up, when you're putting downhill, downwind, that's when it gets really tough.   But today was obviously a lot easier. 
I think we could get a totally different day to today, maybe the next three days, but I feel like I definitely took advantage today. 

Q.   Playing with Stacy, you had a nice little back and forth going.   What was that like?
INBEE PARK:   It's always fun to play with Suzann and Stacy.   We've played with each other so many times and today was a good day.   The course was playing easy today and there was a lot of birdies.   We all played quite good, so it was a good day.

Q.   You were mentioning the course playing a little bit easier today.   How important is it to go low the when conditions are like this?
INBEE PARK:   Obviously everybody is going low today.   So you've got to go low today and obviously it could play tough the next three days and being today's score, it could make a big difference.   So I think it is very important to play very good in these conditions. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT