LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 18, 2014
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Very good day.   Do you feel like you had to make up a little bit for yesterday?   Did you have a mentality of make this up? 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, the last two days have been‑‑ nothing was really going well.   I putted really horrible yesterday and I really wanted to have some kind of a change.   And today I changed the putter to the old putter and it was working a little bit better than yesterday obviously.   Yeah, I don't know, I was just struggling with the putter, so couldn't think of anything else. 

Q.   So did you have the Sabertooth? 
INBEE PARK:   Sabertooth.   

Q.   You changed to the Sabertooth?
INBEE PARK:   I had the TaylorMade. 

Q.   And you changed back to the Sabertooth?
INBEE PARK:   Yeah.

Q.   When is the last time you played with that one?
INBEE PARK:   Nabisco.   I changed to like PING putter and then TaylorMade and now back to it. 

Q.   Any highlights? 
INBEE PARK:   It was a very nice day today.   Hit a lot of shots close.   Many people are hitting a lot of shots close.   Many birdie opportunities, and I hit a couple of them really close today.   Like No. 6 was one of the toughest holes, but I hit it into like two feet, so that's been probably my best shot today.   And yeah, I just had a lot of opportunities today, and probably everybody else does, yeah. 

Q.   Playing with So Yeon had to be fun. 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, we know after the drawing came out yesterday, we text each other that we're together tomorrow, so let's have fun.   Good energy going on in the round, so it was a fun round and we both played good.   So it was a good day. 

Q.   What about tomorrow, most exciting thing for tomorrow, playing in one of the later rounds? 
INBEE PARK:   Excited for waking up late, because I've been getting earlier and earlier and earlier.   Because like first day I played last group and next day one hour earlier and next day another hour earlier.   So my wake‑up call will be late tomorrow, so I'm excited for that. 

Q.   Anything that you know you'll have to do to get in contention to have a chance? 
INBEE PARK:   I just want to have the ball‑striking the way it is right now.   I'm probably going to be a little more nervous tomorrow but want to keep the ball striking and hopefully a few more putts will drop. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT