LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 16, 2014
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Like to welcome No.2 in the Rolex Rankings, Inbee Park.   Inbee, 1‑under today.   I keep asking players about the wind, had to be tough conditions, not a lot of low scores.   How do you think conditions played a factor today? 
INBEE PARK:   Obviously I didn't expect this much wind this morning but looked outside, it was so windy but this golf course changes when it gets this windy, because it can play so easy when there's no wind and warm weather.   But the weather can play a factor and it obviously did today. 
The pin positions were probably a little bit easier than what I thought it would have been but the wind made the scores go not low. 
THE MODERATOR:   I know you had a lot on your mind earlier this week, other than the golf, and you had a wedding on Monday, congratulations.   How do you collect yourself?   How did you turn on the switch to say, all right, I have to come play in this event, and I know you love to play and you have a lot of expectations and it's a lot to balance.   How did you mentally prepare for that? 
INBEE PARK:   Whenever I go to a tournament, I'm just very quiet and just doing my own thing.   You know, this week I really tried to approach it the same way.   Obviously it was a busy week and I didn't get a practice round this week or practice.   I just played the Pro‑Am day, which is quite different to what I usually have. 
It was different but I tried to not think about it so much and just do what I usually do on the golf course.   Yeah, probably I didn't putt as well but my ball‑striking was there.   Probably not playing my hundred percent, but close to getting there.   It will take a couple days.

Q.   As a newly‑wedded person, has it changed your mind‑set on your game?
INBEE PARK:   Not really, I can't say that anything has really changed anything.   This is the first tournament since my marriage but it has not really affected me.   It doesn't feel like I had a wedding.   It feels like I'm here for the tournament.   And I think whether you're single or married is really ‑‑ on the course, first I am a player, and I really tried to focus on my game today. 

Q.   This tournament will give you a chance to recover the top Rolex Ranking; do you have any goals in this championship?
INBEE PARK:   I think that's basically it, in the first half of the season, there was a considerable gap between myself and Stacy but I feel like I'm catching up.   
             So I think that recovering the title as being the Rolex Rankings No. 1 player is achievable if I focus week‑after‑week.   This week will be a good opportunity for me to achieve that goal, especially because Stacy isn't here this week.   And although I've been very busy myself, I feel that I can do well.
For me right now for this championship, recovering my top ranking position is less of a priority because I really want to win Korea.   I haven't had a win in Korea.   I really want to show my Korean fans that I can win in Korea. 

Q.   You played under par today, and as you mentioned earlier, the wind was very strong.   Have you played in similar conditions? 
INBEE PARK:   I haven't played under these conditions recently.   However, this time around, the wind was strong, so there was difficulty in terms of distance control but I think my shot control was good.
I noticed the wind more on the greens, because the ball would move slightly and I reacted for sensitively to that so I missed a couple of putts.   I can't do anything about the wind but I think I can definitely do something about the putting. 

Q.   This is the first tournament after your marriage, so I'm curious to know what's changed now not just in your game but what's changed in general and what your husband said to you this morning? 
INBEE PARK:   I don't think anything has changed significantly.   I have to say nothing has really changed much.   But the way people address me has changed a bit.   Some people are calling me newlywed, and I think that married people are feeling a bit of camaraderie with me.   
             It's only been a few days, so I'm a bit awkward being addressed or being called a newlywed, but I guess I will become used to it. 

Q.   How special was it to see the players come and celebrate at your wedding? 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I made the date on Monday, because we always travel together and always play together, but I really wanted to take a few of the close friends, take part of my wedding.   I'm really thankful that they came, because it wasn't close.   It was about an hour, hour and a half away.   I'm really happy to have them there and it was really special to have them dressed up differently and in a wedding ceremony.   I think for them, I think it was kind of awkward to experience a Korean wedding because they never have done that before. 

Q.   Did it go just as you hoped and planned? 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, everything was good.   It was just a little bit chilly and windy. 

Q.   And then lastly, planning up until that, I was looking at your finishes recently, how did you balance planning and playing so long?   You had been playing well leading up to it.   I know you said you had a lot of help, but mentally, you just played through the stressors? 
INBEE PARK:   Every week, I feel like this season overall, my ball‑striking has been just there, very consistently.   But my putter was just kind of on and off.   I feel like it's getting a little bit better.   
             So I think that's why I've been playing a little bit more consistent.   I mean, the putter is obviously not there, like not to my expectations.   But it's getting there. 

Q.   Has it been kind of a relief; the wedding went great and now it's like, let's move on. 
INBEE PARK:   I think so.   Like before the wedding, planning for about a month or so, and now it's like, the wedding is coming and I was thinking so much about the wedding.   But now it's all over, so I don't have to think so much about that anymore and just kind of move on from there, so just celebrate it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT