REIGNWOOD LPGA CLASSIC
October 4, 2014
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Inbee, you're right there again.   Great round.   Two straight birdies to end it.   How does you feel going into tomorrow now?  
    INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I mean, yesterday I putted really bad.   I hit the ball great all week this week and gave myself a lot of opportunities every day.   I made probably couple bogeys ever day.   I think that's been the mistakes I've been making for three days.  
    Obviously I'm going to need a really good putting day tomorrow and shoot a low number, because this golf course is in very scorable condition and everybody is playing well.  
   
 Q.   What was your approach today knowing how wet the course was going to be?   
    INBEE PARK:   I think we can really attack the pins today.   A it was a little bit colder so the ball wasn't flying as far.   Course was playing a little bit longer but softer.  
    Yeah, I think it's playing quite fair all three days.   I think just my putting was just bit different to yesterday.   Today I putted much better, and that gave me a lot of confidence going into tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   You changed the putter recently.   
    INBEE PARK:   Week before Wegmen's, yeah.  
   
 Q.   What are you using now?  
    INBEE PARK:   TaylorMade DA‑14 it's called.  
   
 Q.   Question mark?   
    INBEE PARK:   DA‑14, yeah.  
   
 Q.   What do you feel is the key week in, week out?   You're always in it, especially on the weekend.   
    INBEE PARK:   I think the more and more you play in the contention and more you get in the contention you want to be in the contention more.  
    You know how it feels to be leading and be in the contention, and obviously it's a lot more exciting.   You really work harder to put yourself there obviously.  
    I think yesterday was probably the day I feel a little bit disappointed.   But the first day and the third day was a good round.  
   
 Q.   So you felt disappointed.   Does that make you more motivated then today?  
    INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I had really nothing to lose really today.   I was in the middle about 12th or 15th place.   I had to make some kind of move today to have a chance tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   And finally, wedding coming up.   Is this going to be the best wedding gift you can give yourself if you can come back?  
    INBEE PARK:   I think it'll be the best wedding gift for me and for my family as well and for my future husband as well.   Yeah, I think good result will be very good, but I'm just going to try to enjoy my last day before getting married.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT