WEGMANS LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2014
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   It's my pleasure to welcome in Inbee Park into the interview room.   Inbee, stellar round today, 6‑under 66, ties your lowest round in a major championship, which is a little surprising, but you have to be very pleased with the way you played today, just 3 shots off the lead.
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, it was a great day to day.   Quite different from yesterday, where yesterday nothing really wanted to drop for me, and today it was just falling from outside the greens.   So my putter decided not to be used today that much.   I chipped in and I holed a bunker shot, I never had those kind of rounds before, only two outside the greens.   So it was a really good round.   I feel like I rolled the balls a little bit better on the greens as well.

Q.   Take us through the chip outs.   What holes were they? 
INBEE PARK:   Number 14, I was in the bunker on the left, that was for eagle.   That went in from the bunker.   And number 1, I was just off the green and I chipped it from there short.

Q.   You've never had that done before? 
INBEE PARK:   A bunker and chip shot?   I don't think so.   I can't even remember when I holed in from a bunker.   I think it's been a while, yeah.

Q.   Fast start today, 4‑under through six holes.   Was the mentality coming in today to be aggressive and get going pretty quickly? 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, yesterday after the round I shot even par and I thought maybe it's not that bad of a score.   Maybe around maybe 20th or 30th, then I went back home and I was around 50th.   So I thought man, this golf course must be playing easy because it didn't play that easy for me in the morning.   So I thought I need to change things a little bit and get a little more aggressive on the second day, and that's what I did today.

Q.   Your second best round today, did you look at the scores coming into this afternoon?   There weren't many low scores.   Did you think maybe the windy conditions were going to play a factor?   What was your thought process there? 
INBEE PARK:   I think it was really consistent yesterday and today.   It was windy all the time.   Obviously, with all these trees it's kind of tough to judge where the wind was coming from because it was swirling a lot, and it was on and it was off.   So it was quite tricky out there, but I did well today. 
THE MODERATOR:   For those that don't know, I know you said your putter was working well for you today.   Give us the background story.   Still using the putter that you ‑‑ I want to say stole ‑‑ from So Yeon.   Tell us the background on that? 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I just at International Crown she was holing so many putts, and I said good putter.   That must be a really good putter, and I told her, can I give it a try?   And I hit a couple and really liked it, so I started using it. 

Q.   Did she get any compensation for that? 
INBEE PARK:   No.

Q.   Did you take her actual putter or did you get another one like that it? 
INBEE PARK:   I got another one like it.

Q.   You didn't actually take it from her?   You ordered it and it came in? 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah.

Q.   From the stats it looked like you only needed 15 putts in the first 14 holes?
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I had 25 putts today, so to start off the round I putted a lot from just off the fringe, so I think that really got my average down on putting.   I think I putted just off the green four or five times today.   So I was really long.

Q.   Inbee, you were so fabulous in the majors last year.   Have you missed being in this position?   How hungry have you been to return? 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I mean, this year major golf tournaments this year I haven't been playing as well as last year, obviously.   The course was playing a little bit different last season, the course like Kraft Nabisco and this year they got longer, they had no rough.   So it played a little bit different, and I think it didn't really suit my game that much this year in the majors. 
But the majors this year has been really firm greens and just long distance and not many roughs out there.   So it's been a little different from last year's set‑up as well, but I just didn't play as well.

Q.   We talked a lot about expectations and you knew coming into the season how difficult it would be to replicate last season.   But how much would it mean to you to be able to get at least one major win this week and Evian left? 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I just came so close the last two weeks.   I played in the British and last week.   So I feel like something is around the corner.   Hopefully, I can do it this week in a major.   That would be great.

Q.   Not to be a downer or anything.   But do you think about the last hole at the British that much?   Does that go through your mind?   I mean, you were so close, as you say. 
INBEE PARK:   I think that's kind of a tournament I can't really forget this year.   I think it's been the last round that I didn't play well, and I had a really good chance.   I don't know when that kind of opportunity's going to come back again.   I kind of still think about it, especially when I see Mo.   Yeah, it's hard.   It's tough to forget, but probably the week after was probably the toughest.   After a couple weeks from there it was okay. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT