CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 24, 2014
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  INBEE PARK:   They're playing great golf.   They're shooting 5‑, 6‑under par every day.   I'm really happy to see them playing really good, finally breaking through.   They haven't won for a couple years, and I really feel for them.   Yeah, hopefully one of them can pull it off.  
   
 Q.   I know they're both in your wedding party coming up in October.   Is this an even bigger reason to celebrate?   
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I think so.   It's really hard to pick who I'm rooting for, obviously, but I don't know, whoever is winning I'm rooting for.   Yeah, I'm sure they're really enjoying themselves out there.   I know it's going to be tough when you lose, but obviously they're going to have a chance next week.   
   
 Q.   I want to focus more on what it means to see both of them in contention, that kind of thing, what it means to you to see them both out there.   
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I know how hard they work.   They were having a very tough time a couple years when they couldn't win for a couple years, so I really was rooting for them to finally break through because they're such great players.   Once they start winning, they can be up on the top very quickly.   Yeah, they have definitely good potential, so yeah, I'm sure even if one of them finishes first and one of them finishes second, that's still going to give them so much confidence playing the rest of the season.   Yeah, I think you'll see their names up there more often.  
   
 Q.   So Yeon in particular said you gave her some advice on how to break through here.   Do you feel like she felt a little bit of pressure there or are you even aware of what was happening?   
INBEE PARK:   Well, obviously it's tough to play with the lead all four days.   It's always easier to come back from behind.   But So Yeon has had that for four days on her shoulders, so if she really does it this time, I think it's going to be a great win.   Obviously wire to wire is the toughest win to do, so obviously I'm rooting for her.  
   
 Q.   Are you going to be dumping champagne on the winner out there?   
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, unless they go in a playoff because I'm really tight on my flights.   Yeah, hopefully they don't go in a playoff.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT