CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 23, 2014
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Nice to be able to stay in it for the past couple of days and have a nice round like you did today.   
INBEE PARK:   Yesterday's round was kind of disappointing.   I hit the ball pretty much the same all three days, but I just could not hole anything yesterday.   It was 17 straight pars, which was very disappointing on this kind of golf course.   I managed to drop one on the last hole, and I think that kind of started the day off today.   
I mean, front nine today was really bad.   I only had one birdie, and I had probably nine looks at the birdie and just holed one.  
I wasn't really comfortable with putting at all.   On the back nine I seemed to drop.   My pace on the greens was really good on the back nine and it started to drop.   It's good that I can have opportunity tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Does it help when you are playing with someone like Azahara who's playing well?   Does that push you?   Does that make it harder?  
INBEE PARK:   I think it's actually easier because you see a lot of putts going in and you see her playing well and that kind of gives you confidence and has a good momentum.   She shot 8‑ or 9‑under today.   I played really well as well.   So it was a fun to play with her, yeah.  
   
 Q.   You had said on Thursday that it could 20‑under to win this tournament.   That seems conservative now.   Could it be 25?   What is the score now that you think it will take to win this?   
INBEE PARK:   I don't know.   It's going to be over 20, that's for sure.   And then I don't know how So Yeon is going to play tomorrow, but if she goes really low tomorrow, 25‑under par is definitely possible.  
   
 Q.   You came from behind last week in the Wegmans.   Anything is possible.   What do you expect for tomorrow?  
INBEE PARK:   I just got to go out there and probably shoot 8 or more tomorrow to actually have a chance.   I'm kind of a few back, like four or five shots back, at the end of the day.   
So hopefully I can go out there a hole some putts and play like how I played the back nine.  
   
 Q.   So Yeon has had 27 top 10s since her last win.   It seems like she's up there every week.   Is she due in your opinion?  
INBEE PARK:   I think she is due.   I think she was due a long time ago, but she probably threw her opportunities away.   Hopefully, if I can't do it this time, hopefully she does it.   I'm really rooting for her.  
   
 Q.   Normally in the second to the last round, you are playing in twosomes, is normally the case on the LPGA Tour?   You are not today.   Was that any problem today?   
INBEE PARK:   I love to play because I'm a quick player.   It was really slow out there today waiting on every single shot.   Hopefully it will quicken up tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT