RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 13, 2014
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   When you made the turn heading into the back nine on Sunday, you were in control of this championship.   
INBEE PARK:   On 10, I thought the grass was going with me and I thought I had a decent lie.   I just hit a pitching wedge there and it just really grabbed it.   I didn't hit many shots out of the rough this week, so I didn't really know what it was going to do.   Just looked good and I gave it a try.   
   
 Q.   Were you thinking about the career Grand Slam coming down the back nine?  
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I started thinking about it yesterday and this week I thought about it, because this is a tournament I really want to win and I really had a good chance today.   So I tried hard.   Didn't happen this week, so hopefully next week.  
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on Mo Martin, this is a pretty big surprise win.   
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, obviously she eagled the last‑‑ that's an amazing finish.   I guess this golf course really suited her eye and she played well for four days.   She played better than everybody else.   She played fantastic.  
   
 Q.   Walking away do you feel like you let this one slip through your fingers?   
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, definitely I think today I could have shot at least three or four shots better.   It just didn't happen‑‑ my putter, just nothing seems to be going in today.   Obviously the back nine was really disappointing.  
   
 Q.   I know how much you wanted it and you were right in with a shot coming into the last couple holes.   Didn't quite come together.   
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, just the whole back nine, it just didn't go the way I wanted to.   I made a lot of mistakes on the back nine.   Especially 17 and 18, there was definitely a birdie opportunity, but I just let it go.   
The last hole was obviously very disappointing.   
   
 Q.   Along with the disappointment, is there a bit of confidence and hope for the next time around that you gave it another close shave?   
INBEE PARK:   It's good that I came close to winning this time.   I was just so close this time.   Hopefully it means something for next year.   I try to learn from my mistakes what I made this year, and hopefully yeah, I don't make the same next year.  
   
 Q.   Was there anything specific that made the difference that stopped you from just quite getting there or just a general?   
INBEE PARK:   I've got to say, it's No. 10, double‑bogey was stopping me from having a go at it.   Yeah, I thought I had a good lie and I tried to go out from there.   
   
 Q.   So you thought you could make it and get on to the green?  
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I only had 100 yards, so it wasn't long.   I tried to just punch it out with my pitching wedge and it just really grabbed it.  
   
 Q.   Fourth place, do you feel like you left a few out there?   
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, it was just a little bit disappointing day obviously.   I really battled through the front nine but just the back nine, nothing seems to be going my way.   Made a lot of mistakes that I really didn't need to make.   Obviously the last hole, drive was really disappointing.   
Today was a tough day for me but I gave it a hard try and just didn't work out.   
   
 Q.   What part of your game do you think failed you?  
INBEE PARK:   My ball‑striking was good today but just my putter didn't work out today.   I was missing opportunities.   I was missing par putts.   Yeah, just it wasn't really there.   
   
 Q.   What are your emotions now?   
INBEE PARK:   Just what's gone past is past.   I just have to forget about what's happened today and move onto next week and just try to play my golf.   I still played great.   Not a great back nine on this last day but other than that it was good.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you want this championship more since it's eluded you?   
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I came really close this time, so hopefully it's some kind of sign for next year.   Hopefully I can give it another try for next year.  
   
 Q.   Are you going to be able to celebrate your birthday at any time?  
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, it's already gone but I think I can.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT