SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
May 30, 2014
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   All right.   Like to welcome Inbee Park to the media room.   Great round, 5‑under 67 today.   Talk about what it was like to birdie that hole, what that does for you going into tomorrow. 
INBEE PARK:   It was a very good round today.   Obviously I wasn't really confident after last week's cut, so today I really tried to really work on something that I really needed to work on, something that didn't work last week. 
And yeah, looks like the new tweaks are working really well.   And it feels like I hadn't had a good putting day in a while.   And yeah it was a good putting day.   And that's what I like the most about and I'll try to get the ball striking going for the next two days I think I'll be good.
THE MODERATOR:   What were those tweaks, something in your swing, something in your putting? 
INBEE PARK:   A little bit of everything because last week seems like nothing seems to be working.   I was really missing every putt to the left last week, so I was trying to have my upper body a little bit more calmer this week and I feel like I'm rolling the ball much better than last week.
THE MODERATOR:   All right.   Like to open it up for questions.

Q.   Talk about your putting being a bit of an issue last week.   Were there certain things you did specifically to fix that this week?
INBEE PARK:   Yeah.   I mean even if I wasn't putting good this season, I was still finishing like Top 5, top 3s, and you know, with the good finishes, you don't really try to change anything even if it's not working so well, but after last week I think everything really clicked, and I really thought I need to change something right now. 
And yeah, my shoulder was going down too much during the follow through, and that's why I was missing everything to the left, and so I tried to really calm it down on my right side.   And it seems like I'm missing it less and less. 
And yeah, last week was‑‑ after the putt I didn't even need to look at it.   It was off line as soon as it started.   So yeah, it feels like now I can look at the ball a little bit more and see it going in a little bit more.

Q.   Inbee, when you have a problem that you're trying to correct, do you practice extra‑‑ about how many hours a day were you practicing on the putting and were you practicing on any other aspect of your game?
INBEE PARK:   I mean I'm not like, you know, long practice person, but I had a lot of time after last week, obviously, not playing the weekend.   So I mean I spent a lot of time on this golf course and played a lot of holes when I came here.   I came here on Saturday and started playing since Sunday, and tournament didn't start till Friday, so I had a lot of time to myself and a lot of time to practice, and I spent probably like a good four, five hours per day practicing and playing out there. 
So yeah, I feel like I got good practice done, and yeah, the results are showing, so that was very good.

Q.   Inbee, talk a little bit about your confidence.   Was there a point out there, an early birdie or something where you felt your confidence come back, you felt like your old self again out there?
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I mean I was a little bit worried before I teed off today because of the last week's finish, so I was a little bit unconfident.   But after I birdied the first hole, that really gave me a lot of confidence going into the rest of the 17 holes.
And I probably holed about a 15‑footer on the first hole, which I wasn't able to hole a 15‑footer for the last, I don't know, the last month, so yeah, so I feel like something was going the right way today, and yeah, since the first hole.

Q.   Was this the best you putted all season today?
INBEE PARK:   I would say one of the days that I putted the best.   I mean I really don't think I got everything today.   I mean I strike the ball very well today and gave myself a lot of opportunities within 20 foot, about 10, 12 times, and I made 6 out of that, so I think that's still very good.

Q.   How important is being No. 1 to you?   Is that way up on the list? 
INBEE PARK:   It is very important, but I mean I try to have the fun before I try and think about the numbers or somebody is trying to catch me.   Not to try to think so much about that, and I mean my main goal is to play well in the tournaments and strike the ball well, you know, and trying to hole some putts.   And yeah, No. 1 is very important, but I mean it's not everything.

Q.   Do you know where other people stand in terms of how close they are to you?
INBEE PARK:   I mean I don't know like all the numbers, but I know they can take me over if they win.   I think that's all that matters. 

Q.   Was that 15‑footer on 1, was that your longest putt you made today or what other longer putts did you make today?
INBEE PARK:   Yeah that was the longest one today.   The other birdies were quite less than 10‑footers today.

Q.   What made you come here on Saturday after Alabama?   Obviously you could have taken a couple of days off and shown up on Monday or Tuesday.   What made you come here right from Alabama on Saturday?
INBEE PARK:   I played bad for two days, and I mean to be honest with you, I just didn't want to stay there anymore and just go to the new spot and try to have the new mindset.
There is no need to practice on that golf course when I don't need to play any more, so yeah, I was trying to come here early and prepare for this week.
THE MODERATOR:   Any more questions?   All right.   Thanks, Inbee. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT