U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 22, 2014
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How are you feeling?  The tournament's over and I know it must be a bit disappointing that you weren't able to contend.INBEE PARK: Yeah, it was wasn't really fun playing the weekend without contending.  But the last couple days I struck the ball better than first day and I just couldn't hole anything this week.  Those 5, 6-footer par putts I couldn't hole any of them.  And I probably hit the ball best today, so that gives me a little bit of confidence coming into next week. But just putting, I got to work on it a little bit more and just try and, yeah, next week is a new week, so start over.
Q. You feel you weren't able to execute the putts or just these greens are so difficult?INBEE PARK: Yeah, I wasn't hitting bad shots into the greens.  A couple of missed shots but that really penalized and I couldn't get it up-and-down from anywhere and obviously because I wasn't holing 5- and 6-footers.  So, yeah, just mostly just putting.  It was just not anything that's severely wrong.
Q. As two-time Women's Open champion what did you think about the way the course was set up for the weekend?INBEE PARK: I never played this bad in the Women's Open before, so it was definitely a very tough golf course and probably one of the toughest I've played all nine years I've played.  So, yeah, it played really tough for me because my ball releases a lot more on the greens because I have a lower ball flight.  So it was tough to hold the greens.  There were some holes where I couldn't, I didn't have any kind of shot in, I just had to try to hit it into the bank, try to jump it up.  If you get unlucky you're done.  It just wasn't my golf course.  But yeah, I think it was very good golf course at the same time.
Q. You were talking the other day about the pressure that you put on yourself when you were winning regularly and won three Majors in a row.  And you said how, that you learned to maybe accept a little bit that you're not always going to be able to win tournaments.  And so does that mindset help you accept weeks like this where it's just not there for you?INBEE PARK: Yeah, you're not always going to win or contend every week, obviously, so the more times -- last year it was actually, I didn't contend many weeks, but the weeks I contended I won.  So it's -- I'm probably more contending this year than last year.  So that gives me a little bit more consistent, but, just little putting, short game, around the greens, it's just, it cost me probably maybe one or two shots every day and that's fine as well.
Q. Was there anything in your practices leading up to the championship that gave you an idea of what you might or might not be able to do here?INBEE PARK: Well, obviously, I think this golf course definitely favors a fade ball hitter, where you can land the ball softly on the greens.  So, no, I knew it was going to be a very tough challenge for me, but obviously if you get it up-and-down from everywhere, you can still score, so now I was really relying on my short game this week, but obviously it didn't work.
 
 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT