U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 20, 2014
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. You said yesterday you were beyond disappointed.  So obviously it was a good round, right?INBEE PARK: Yeah, I'm very happy that I'll be still playing tomorrow.  Just a couple of mistakes on the back nine and I could be out of this field. So, yeah, I had a tough start today, a couple of unlucky bounces earlier today, but obviously I played really good on the back nine.  I'm really proud of myself how I played on the back nine.  I thought under par was not possible on any nine, but I shot 2-under on the back nine today.  So I'm going to try to do that on the weekend.
Q. So that gives you a lot of positive incentive going into the weekend?INBEE PARK: At least it gave me that I can do it.  There's a possibility, it's probably one of the toughest golf courses I've ever played, but, yeah, I'm just really going to grind it out and just I got to be really patient out there.
Q. What is the mindset for weekend?  Just to go out there and play two solid rounds and see what happens?INBEE PARK: Yeah, just trying to put myself in a good position on the green.  Try to give myself a birdie opportunity whenever I can.  Even if it's a 30- or 40-footer, it's a birdie opportunity.  It's better than just off the green trying to make a good bogey. So, yeah, on the back nine I hit a lot of greens and on the front nine I missed a lot of greens.  So that was the difference on the two nines.
Q. You were saying the other day that there's been a change in mindset, you were talking about when you won the streak of majors and you felt you almost had to win all the time and were in the No. 1 position in the world.  Is this an example of you're not putting too much pressure on yourself, you're just saying let me get back in it and not get too frustrated?INBEE PARK: Yeah, today is definitely different than yesterday.  Yesterday I come first day trying to think about leading the field or thinking about the trophy or being in the contention in the final round and all that stuff.  But obviously the mindset today was a lot different.  Just trying to stay in the field and, yeah, that definitely did less frustration out there.
Q. Too far back do you think?INBEE PARK: It's never too far back in the U.S. Open, I think.  Anything is possible on this golf course.  Everyone can shoot 5- or 6-over par and 2-under par, that's seven or eight shots a day.
Q. What was your strategy on the third hole?  It's playing really short today.  Trying to get to the green in one?INBEE PARK: Yeah, it was only 220 to the front and, yeah, I hit a three wood.  I hit actually the shot I wanted to, but the rake stopped my ball.  I wanted to put it in the left side trap and the rake -- somebody in front of my group left it there and it stopped my ball just in front of it, giving me a really wicked lie.  I think that's like where it like turned everything around.  That really brought me into a tough day.
 
 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT