ANA INSPIRATION
April 2, 2021
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Here with Inbee Park.  Take us through this second round with you today.  I know it was highlighted by that eagle on the Aon Risk-Reward hole this week.
 INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I had a great start.  I shot a 3-under on the back nine which was tougher conditions with the windier conditions.  But on the front nine I had opportunity but I wasn't able to hole some putts.
 But overall it was a good day.  Pretty solid.  Hit a lot of fairways and greens.
 Q. Is it a little surprising that there is not as much wind here?
 INBEE PARK:   Well, yeah, I mean, we usually get two really windy days.  Looked like it was going to be really windy this morning.  Played probably five, six holes in a little bit of wind this morning.
 Other than that, it was pretty calm.
 Q. I know before the tournament you said that you were still feeling rusty, even though you were coming off a win there.  Are you still feeling rusty or are you getting more into your game?
 INBEE PARK:   I think my warmup session has finished really a lot quicker than I have thought.  I feel like I'm ready to play now, and I just got a little bit of things here and there; every golfer does.
 Q. Especially as the temperatures here get up.  Like we have said all week long, you have such special memories of this place.  What's the mindset heading into the weekend in contention?
 INBEE PARK:   It's just the heat that we just got to watch out for.  The course is going to play firm and fast, which is a good thing, and obviously you just going to have a lot of energy to play in this heat.
 Q. How did your putting last week transition over to this week and how well you're rolling it?
 INBEE PARK:   You know, I think I been rolling it much better this week definitely, because, I mean, the green conditions are so much better and my speed is a lot better this week.
 I think it's probably the same condition for everybody.  I had some good putts last week but I also missed a lot of short ones last week, which everybody probably does.
 This week I feel like I'm holing them much better.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT