LPGA LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY J GOLF
April 16, 2014
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   It's my pleasure to welcome Inbee Park into the interview room, a great 2‑under today, four birdies, two bogeys.   Take us through the day.   Obviously the wind was a big factor.   Talk about the conditions today and your round overall.
INBEE PARK:   I got off to a really good start today, four birdies early, in six holes. 
Obviously, the wind wasn't blowing as hard for my first five holes, then it started to really blow.   I've never seen this golf course playing this hard before.   It's been definitely the most it's blown so far. 
The greens seems like it's a little bit more slippery, especially downwind.   I had trouble on the back nine with controlling the distance.   I hit it over the couple of greens.   It was almost impossible to get it up‑and‑down from there.   A couple of mistakes on the back nine, but I feel like I'm putting a lot bit better than I have this season.
I got to watch out for a little bit of distance controlling the next three days, and obviously everybody is going to make mistakes in this wind.   Obviously it's really tough to control the distances, so I'm just trying to make ‑‑ I really scrambled for pars on this golf course.   Today all day was scrambling for pars on the back nine.   Trying to give myself more opportunities for the next three days.

Q.   How much does the bag play a factor with you in yardages and clubs and all that?
INBEE PARK:   I mean he thinks‑‑ he's not always right, but most of the time he's right. 
Today we both made a mistake on calculating the wind for a couple of holes.   Except for that, I think we did pretty good on distance controlling and reading the wind.   You have to have a perfect contact to actually ride the wind.   If you have a little bit of a bad contact, your ball is going to go everywhere.

Q.   You had a week off after Kraft and you had kept saying, I've been working on the putting, need to find my putting.   What were you working on in the offseason?   Was there anything specifically that something start clicking this week?
INBEE PARK:   Last couple of days in Kraft Nabisco where I felt like I was putting a lot better.   I wasn't hitting the ball great at Nabisco, so it didn't really look like I was putting good.   But I was definitely putting better in Kraft than I‑‑ I felt like my confidence was coming back in the last couple of days. 
And then obviously I didn't get much time to practice last week because I was everywhere.   I was in Vegas.   I was in Atlanta.   I mean, I was in Augusta.   I was pretty busy trying to forget about golf, trying to refresh. 
Still pretty tired from a ten‑hour flight, but I feel good about coming this weekend.   Obviously I have my close friends living here, so it feels like home to me.

Q.   You got to go to Augusta for the very first time.   It was a special event for you.   You were the Female Golfer of the Year at the GWAA award ceremony.   Talk about that experience.   To be recognized is such a good honor. 
INBEE PARK:   It was an honor to be recognized by the writers of golf.   They know me better than I know myself.   It was great to get that kind of recognition, and it was a special experience going to Augusta.   Never been there before and never really seen the guys playing before.   I probably learned a couple of lessons from the guys, looking at them playing.   I think that will help me playing this week.

Q.   What kind of lessons was the biggest takeaway?
INBEE PARK:   I think I was watching them a lot on the range and the putting greens.   I didn't follow them much on the golf course, trying to see what they do on the range and what they do on the putting green, what kind of drills they do and what are they trying to do. 
I'm trying to figure those things out to really help me think about my swing and imagination for my swing.

Q.   Who impressed you the most?
INBEE PARK:   Out of the guys, like I followed K.J. Choi and Sang Moon‑Bae.   I was trying to watch them play.   And I saw a little bit of Adam Scott play, and obviously they are a little bit different.

Q.   What kind of difference does the wind make on the putting?
INBEE PARK:   It was tough to concentrate and you have to‑‑ with this strong wind, you have to read the wind also.   Even the break is left to right a little bit.   Sometimes the wind is going to right to left, you have to play straight.   It definitely comes into the play, and obviously the concentration part.

Q.   What were you doing in Vegas? 
INBEE PARK:   We were house hunting again.   And I was with my friends and family, so they wanted to go over there and look at the house together and I found a house.

Q.   (Inaudible?)
INBEE PARK:   I've only be there in Vegas twice this last year.   It was my second attempt and I got it.

Q.   So what are some amenities?   You were trying to look for a pool?
INBEE PARK:   No, no pool, just a normal house. 

Q.   Why Vegas?
INBEE PARK:   I went to high school there, I grew up there my high school years.   I think flying in and out is quite easy.   I like the West Coast side of the U.S. 

Q.   You mentioned the wind wasn't as bad when you teed off this morning.   At what point did you notice it picked up?
INBEE PARK:   I think it was about No. 4 or 5, it really picked up.   When we were warming up, it was almost calm.   When we teed off, it started to blow and got stronger and stronger.

Q.   Did itsurprise you, the wind? 
INBEE PARK:   We were expecting the wind.   All week this weekend we played in the wind in the Pro‑Am and the practice round.   I think it's going to be like this all week so it will be tough.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT