NORTH TEXAS LPGA SHOOTOUT PRESENTED BY JTBC
April 29, 2014
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   All right.   We're happy to be joined by Inbee Park, world No. 1, defending champion here at the North Texas Shootout.   Inbee, this is the third time this year you're going into a tournament as the defending champion.   
INBEE PARK:   Yeah.  
THE MODERATOR:   Does it get any easier?   Is there a certain routine you have or what's it like?   
INBEE PARK:   Obviously it's always great to be coming back as a defending champion and obviously having really good memories on the golf course and the area.   And yeah, it's just lovely to come back and try to enjoy and try to do the same is obviously very tough, but I'll try to do the same this week.  
THE MODERATOR:   Las Colinas Country Club.   Can you kind tell us about this course and what kind of suits your eye?   
INBEE PARK:   You know, I think just you know, Las Colinas here is so close from the city and everything around it is very comfortable, like the food and everything is here, so it's so easy to get around.   And obviously we're really close from the Korean community here.   So it feels like we're kind of back home, and not like in the West Coast and like middle area, there is a lot of Korean population.   So yeah, it feels very comfortable here.   
THE MODERATOR:   I know you were a little sick last week.   You still battled to a Top 5 finish.   Are you feeling better this week and what was wrong with you last week?   
INBEE PARK:   It was food poisoning last week, and at first I thought it was just catching a cold, because I was having a fever.   And obviously it was not food poisoning‑‑ it was definitely the food poisoning, not the cold.   
Yeah, I was really sick last week, and you know, the finish last week was actually very good finish, you know, considering how bad I was feeling.   
Yeah, definitely feeling a lot better than last week.   I wouldn't say I'm like 100 percent back to normal, but 70, 80, so hopefully by the week starts I'll be 100 percent and ready to go for this week.  
THE MODERATOR:   We're certainly hoping.   Let's open it up for questions.   
   
 Q.   Inbee, last year you finished this tournament with 35 straight holes without a bogey.   Have you been on the course already this week?   Have you been out there yet?  
INBEE PARK:   I played nine holes today.   It was really windy today, so it was playing very different than last year.   I mean the clubs we were going in was totally different.   And last year we didn't have this much wind.   And yeah, it was playing quite difficult out there today with the wind.   I don't know what the wind is going to do the rest of the week, but if it blows like this, this is going to be a totally different golf course to us.  
   
 Q.   Still, is there a comfort level knowing that you've had that kind of success on this course, even though that would have been the first time you guys have been here?  
INBEE PARK:   Yeah.   I think Colinas course having a good memory of this golf course, and obviously having bogey‑free holes for 35 holes gives me a lot of confidence.   And coming back to the golf course where you played well, you always feel so good and comfortable around it.   So I think that gives me a little bit of an advantage over other girls here, because you know, I played on this golf course well.   
   
 Q.   You've been No. 1 for a long time.   What about your game has allowed you to maintain that consistency?  
INBEE PARK:   I think, you know, everything is really just coming together for me for a couple of years.   I think from my ball striking to my putting to just my mental game, everything is just getting a little bit better and better and I'm getting a little bit more experienced and I'm getting a little bit more mature as a person and as a golfer.   So I think just overall game is just improving every day, and obviously having really great competitors around me just helps me to improve every week and every day.  
THE MODERATOR:   Kind of building off that, you were mentioning the people behind you.   There's been a little bit of a turnover in the past year so far with Michelle moving up in the ranks, Lydia moving to No. 2.   Kind of talk about how that younger breed, you're pretty young yourself, only 25 years old, how that kind of motivates you to keep going and staying in that No. 1 spot.  
INBEE PARK:   Yeah.   I definitely think we're seeing a lot of new names, and obviously a lot of the names and rankings are changing really quickly the last few weeks, and yeah, I think it's good to see a lot of people playing well because that just gives‑‑ you know, that just gives us that there is not only five girls can win.   There is like 20 girls that can win out here this weekend.   You just never know what is going to happen and everybody is playing so well.   And you've gotta play better than everybody.   So just trying to improve yourself and yeah, try to be the best of it.   
   
 Q.   I know at one point this season you said it was your putter that was holding you back from getting into those Top 10s which was everybody's surprise, everybody didn't believe you for your putting prowess.   What's really clicking?   I know you said your putting has come along.   Was it something that you need to change?   I know you said you made a putter change.   What has been clicking for you recently?  
INBEE PARK:   Yeah.   I just tried everything because I just didn't seem like I was rolling the ball as good as I did last year.   So I tried different putters.   I tried different things, different strokes.   And nothing really seems to be changing and a couple of weeks ago I tried to change my posture a little bit, and that seems like it's working really well, and I feel like I am rolling the ball on line.   So since then I've been putting really good.   
Yeah, just I was not too far away last few weeks, and just you know, waiting for my‑‑ you know, that week everything just clicks together.  
   
 Q.   Is it straighter posture?  
INBEE PARK:   Just like my shaft angle was a little bit more up right.   I made it a little bit more up right.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about this course and some of the things you have to avoid and some of the things you have to do to be successful out here this week?  
INBEE PARK:   I think like tee shot on the first few holes are quite tough on this golf course, and like to start off here, they‑‑ you have to hit a couple of good drives, especially No. 1 and 2, you have to hit the fairway, and obviously No. 1 is a very tough fairway to hit.   And just if you start yourself really good out here, I think there is a lot of opportunities out there.  
Yeah, and I had very good start last year here in the first couple of rounds, so I mean just driver probably is the most important for the first few holes and you just gotta hole a lot of putts in.   Obviously the wind is going to come into factor when it blows like this.  
THE MODERATOR:   And finally, Inbee, let you off on something that's not really a golf question.   Heard that you recently purchased a new house.   You have the week off next week.   You got any plans for that?   
INBEE PARK:   Yeah.   I think I'll be just, you know, using my credit card a lot next week.   (Laughs) so I better make some money this week.   
Yeah, just I'm going to furnish my few house next week, so I think it's going to be really fun.  
THE MODERATOR:   Exciting.   Well, we hope you finish high and get some of that money and get that house fancied up for you.   
INBEE PARK:   Okay.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Inbee.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT