JTBC FOUNDERS CUP
March 21, 2014
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What did you finish with?  
INBEE PARK:   3‑under.  
   
 Q.   3‑under.   Okay.   You guys all played very well in your group.   Did that have anything to do with you guys playing off each other?  
INBEE PARK:   Yeah.   I think maybe we had a quite slow front nine, Lydia and I and Jessica probably.   On the back nine I think things went really well for everyone and especially last five to finish was a great finish.   
Today is probably worst day for me than yesterday because I probably missed a couple, two to three shots, and I mean I left a lot of putts out there today, request especially No. 1 through like 13 I didn't make anything.   So yeah, it was very good to actually see the putt drop on the last five holes, so it was a relief.  
   
 Q.   Do you know Mirim Lee very well?   If so, could you tell us a little bit about her game?  
INBEE PARK:   I know she's still one of the founders of the LPGA, and I really haven't seen her playing, but I know she's a legend of the game, and I know everyone wants to be like her.   
THE MODERATOR:   You mean Mirim?   
   
 Q.   Mirim Lee.   
INBEE PARK:   No.   I don't really know much about her.   I never really played with her.  
   
 Q.   Were you just kind of waiting for this day to get going?   Like you said, neither you or Lydia did much on the front nine.   Settled in and nothing was happening really until 13, 14, 15.   
INBEE PARK:   We still hit great shots into the Green but nothing just wanted to drop on the front nine and obviously I hit one bad shot and ended up with double bogey.   Except for that holy didn't really have much of a mistake, but definitely I need putts to drop on the weekend.  
   
 Q.   Definitely the two eagles kind of jump started both of you a little bit.   
INBEE PARK:   Yeah.   I think so.   All day, everything today is just lipping out and didn't want to go in and finally putting drop was good, and it was a very good hole.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT