JTBC FOUNDERS CUP
March 20, 2014
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You turned it on there on the back nine.  
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, just on the front nine, I was hitting the ball good all day today, but just on the front the putts didn't seem like they wanted to go in.   I read a couple of putts wrong, and on the back nine I had shots a lot closer than the front nine, and obviously I holed some putts on the back nine.  
So it was a very solid round and very good irons today.  
   
 Q.   What was your distance and club there?  
INBEE PARK:   134, pitching.  
   
 Q.   When you play with Lydia, somebody who's 16 and playing like that, what are your impressions when you watch her play?  
INBEE PARK:   Every time I play with her she's very impressive, and she's very mature for her age and her game is very mature.   She's putting really good and hitting the ball straight, and that's what you need to do out here, and looks like she's doing it.  
   
 Q.   Is there anything she does on the course that reminds you she's only 16?  
INBEE PARK:   I don't treat her like 16, because she's obviously not playing or acting like 16.   I think she's very mature person as a person and actually on the golf course as a player.  
   
 Q.   Last year was such a big year and it had to be exhausting at the end, but you seemed fresh.   Can you just talk about how you got yourself fresh and ready for this year?  
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, the LPGA season started very early this season, and I didn't want to rush and start, and so that's why I took about five weeks off and just practicing for five weeks, and I think that really freshed me up, and I feel like, you know, I was well rested and fresh to go for the first tournament in Thailand.  
   
 Q.   Did you not touch a club?  
INBEE PARK:   No.   I didn't play for about three weeks after the first.   And once I got to Australia, that's when I started playing golf.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel good about the gold coast, doing your training there for the first time?  
INBEE PARK:   Yeah.   It was something different.   I think the weather was very nice this year, and everybody there treated me very nice, so I like it.   Obviously, you know, being bred there, it helped a lot.  
   
 Q.   How important was it for you to feel like you were fresh and starting the new year?  
INBEE PARK:   You always feel fresh when you start the season, but I was a little bit exhausted last year after all the things happened, and yeah, I think just trying to relax every moment you can and obviously have good Christmas and new year with friends and family.   I think that really gives you a lot of energy to go for the next year.  
   
 Q.   What were some of the things that you did for fun in Australia again?  
INBEE PARK:   I think I just did like everything that I could do, like tourist stuff, like going to the zoo and looking at containing radios and equal as.   I did some paddle boarding and surfing.   
   
 Q.   Are you a good surfer?  
INBEE PARK:   No, I'm not.   (Laughs).   I just spent a lot of time at the beach and in the water.  
   
 Q.   Seemed like you were going for a lot of pins on the back nine.   You guys were all being pretty aggressive at the pins?  
INBEE PARK:   Yeah.   We hit a lot of short irons on this golf course.   You have to shoot low scores for four rounds on this golf course, and obviously there's a lot of opportunities here and you have to hole your putts.   And obviously on this back nine I hit a lot of good iron shots, and only mistake today was the 3‑putt on No. 3 or 4, and yeah, that was my only mistake today.  
   
 Q.   You said you felt really good about your ball striking starting the year.   Your putting wasn't as sharp.   Is the putting pretty sharp now?  
INBEE PARK:   I wouldn't say I'm putting as good as my highlight of last year, but I think it's coming.   I think it's coming.   On the front nine it was a little bit disappointing putting but on the back nine it seems like it was going in a little bit better.   I mean my putt wasn't going in the center.   I was lipping in, like three putts lipped in, and I wanted to get it right in the center, but sometimes that's golf sometimes.  
   
 Q.   Is there anything that you learned from last year about pacing yourself in terms of not to get too exhausted?  
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, last year I hardly missed any events last year, especially beginning of the year.   And this year I'm just trying to pace myself, you know, to focus on the majors.  
   
 Q.   So which events will you skip?  
INBEE PARK:   I mean I don't know for sure right now.   So I wouldn't say, because I mean I took off early in this year, so in the middle of the year probably a couple before.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT