THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 27, 2019
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How shocked are you that you weren't playing in bad weather today?  Pleasant surprise.  Talk about the conditions.
INBEE PARK: Yeah, we got stuck in a delay yesterday, so I looked at the tee times.  It was early.  It was really quick turnaround, but I thought as long as we get it done it's a better team.
Yeah, I think we got lucky today that we got it just done at the right time.  Hopefully we finish 72 holes.
Q. The Koreans are dominating the board.  Is there anything about this golf course you think that suits Korean players?
INBEE PARK: I really think this golf course suits Korean players because all the golf courses in Korea are built in the mountain.  We are really used to the undulations and the lies that we get.  Like a lot of hitting downhill, uphill.  It's a similar conditions, I should say.
Q. And your position on the board.
INBEE PARK: That's good.  I mean, I had two bogeys today.  I had a lot of birdies, but too many mistakes today.  Hopefully get the bogey a little bit off.
But, yeah, what's done is done.  Just go out there tomorrow and try to have less bogeys.
Q. What will it take, do you think?  What number?
INBEE PARK: I think it's just going to be a lot.  I mean, I play with Hyo Joo last two days and she's pretty solid.  I think she's -- I don't think she's going to falter that much.
I think it's going to be a low one.  Has to be.
Q. 11-under through three rounds.  You have birdied the 7th and 8th holes in all three rounds.  What are you seeing on those three holes to be so successful?
INBEE PARK: Yeah, I mean, I think I played really well on those holes.  I started off a little bit rough every day 1 through 6, even par or 1-over par every day.  Starting No. 7 everything started to click.  And, you know, coming into the clubhouse I have been playing really, really well.
But No. 10 I have made three bogeys in a row, so I think that really makes up for it.  Yeah, hopefully I can just (indiscernible) tomorrow as well.
Q. What do you think is accounting for the slower starts?
INBEE PARK: I think it's just tough holes in the beginning to start and some long holes for me.  I always thought that No. 1 through 6 is a pretty tough start.
Q. Par-3s here are also difficult.  You're 5-under on them through three rounds.  What's helping you find so much success there?
INBEE PARK: I have been hitting the iron shots really solid this week, so I think that really helps me to get some opportunities on the par-3s.  Yeah.
Q. You're in contention here at the Evian Resort Golf Course for a chance to take home the super slam.  What would that mean to you?
INBEE PARK: Well, I think it's maybe too far back.  I think Hyo Joo and Sung Hyun have been playing good golf today.  We'll see what happens.  Try to go out there and post a number and just see what happens.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT