HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 22, 2014
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Very strong start.   Two birdies.   Take me through the birdies.   
INBEE PARK:   1st hole was about 77 yards, sand wedge, and hit it to less than a foot.   Tapped it in.  
No. 2, what did I do?   I hit 8‑iron to five, six feet, and holed that.  
No. 8 was a missed green to the right and didn't get it up and down to the bunker.  
No. 10, I chipped it to about a foot.  
No. 11, iron shot, 8‑iron to four feet.  
12, 7‑iron to six feet.  
13 was about 9‑iron to a foot.  
   
 Q.   So all very short putts.   
INBEE PARK:   Yeah.   I hit a lot of great iron shots out there today.   I think I still left four or five birdies out there.   
It was very good ball striking day, but obviously putter wasn't as hot as the ball striking.   67 is still a very good score.  
   
 Q.   What were you thinking coming into today?   
INBEE PARK:   Just I was like four or five back behind the leader, so last couple days been like a little bit of rusty from five‑week break.  
I think just a little bit of everything didn't really work out last two days.   I was just trying to work things out and get used to the tournament feeling.   That's what I did today.   
Yeah, I feel like I'm a lot more comfortable and a lot less nervous.  
   
 Q.   How badly did you want to get a good start this week?   Being defending champion, did you think, I really, really want to do well, or did you want to ease into this?  
INBEE PARK:   Being your first tournament you want to think that this is only a start so you don't need to win, you don't have to play so well.  
But I had a start like last year where I won the first week and had such a good season, so just know that if I can win this week it's going to be a very good lucky charm.  
So, yeah, think it'll be a very good start.   I felt so comfortable last year after winning this event.   That made my year.   Yeah, I think it would be nice if I could do that again.  
   
 Q.   Be kind of a rerun.   
INBEE PARK:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Going into tomorrow you're two back off Anna.   You have a number in mind going into tomorrow?  
INBEE PARK:   I think I shot exactly the same number until today.   Last year I shot like 5‑under, 1‑under, 1‑under, and this year was 1, 1, 5.   So last day, 5‑under.   Yeah, what's what I'm shooting for, or maybe one better than last year would be great.  
Like I say, these three rounds been great for first event.   I'll just do my best tomorrow.   Even if I don't win, there are 30 more events left.  
   
 Q.   How about the weather today?  
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, a lot hotter.   Obviously the fairways were a little bit drier so the balls were running.   Course was playing a little bit shorter.   
Yesterday and day before was really wet and it was playing quite long for me, so I was hitting a lot of long irons and not giving me a lot of birdie putts.  
Today was tougher day, but golf game worked out much better because I was able to have a lot more opportunity.  
   
 Q.   You said you were nervous coming into this week.   Did you expect that?   
INBEE PARK:   Yeah.   Always like the first week back is always nervous.   I usually get that on the first day and last day when I'm in contention.  
Obviously I got through the first day, and one more day to go tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   You think you'll be a little nervous tomorrow?  
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I think so, because this is only first week back.   I think everybody else will be.  
   
 Q.   Like the first day of school.   
INBEE PARK:   Yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT