RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
August 2, 2013
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  INBEE PARK:   A little bit of everything wasn't really working well out there today but it was very tough conditions.   I just don't feel like I played horrible today.   I think I grinded really well out there today.   1‑over today, a little bit unlucky with the draw, getting afternoon today, not playing in the morning when it's lovely but that's the way it is. 

Q.   You said yesterday you were a little concerned with a couple of shots you hit on the back nine, did you manage to fix those today?
INBEE PARK:   Well, not perfectly fix it, but I didn't miss that many shots to the right today, mostly to the left.   I would say I fixed it a little bit because it's going the other way, but I'm trying to get that straight the next two days; whether I win or whether I don't, the last two days that I had here, lots of great moments that I've collected‑‑ if I can handle this kind of pressure, I'm not afraid of anything in my career from now on. 

Q.   Do you feel like you've handled it well?   Are you satisfied? 
INBEE PARK:   Well, not satisfied‑‑ but last two days‑‑ it was a great experience, I've got to say. 

Q.   Your caddie said you found a little something on the back nine, what did you find and how much confidence can you take from where you finished up? 
INBEE PARK:   Well, today my play was overall pretty much the same with the ball‑striking.   Not everything clicked, but I feel like I'm almost getting there and I feel like it's getting better than yesterday's back nine, so just trying to take it step‑by‑step.

Q.   Would you like the wind to blow tomorrow?   With you like conditions to be tough or like it was on day one?
INBEE PARK:   I would say I wanted it to blow and conditions to be tough, because I'm so far back.   Just I need to narrow some gap in these tough conditions. 

Q.   You're a very composed person, so when you're nervous, how does that show in you?   How do you feel when you're nervous? 
INBEE PARK:   Well, I can see‑‑ because I'm not striking the ball that bad or putting that bad, so that tells me that I'm not feeling the pressure.   Might not be 100 percent, but trying to get there, trying to make it there.   Whether I win this week, whether I don't, the last two days what I experienced was great.   You know, if I can handle this kind of pressure, if I face this kind of pressure, I'm really not afraid of any kind of pressure from now on in my career. 
That's something that not everybody gets to experience, so yeah, it's a great experience. 

Q.   You had a few lucky breaks on the back nine, too, can you talk about that part of it, deal with the bad breaks? 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, this course, you're always going to get a bad bounce, bad breaks.   I guess everybody gets bad bounces here, so you have to kind of play with that, too.

Q.   When did you start feeling this pressure?
INBEE PARK:   Just every‑‑ I think since I got here I think I started. 

Q.   When you first got to the golf course? 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, yeah. 

Q.   How difficult was the wind on the back nine?   A lot of the players have said it was pretty tough. 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, especially coming in holes from 13 to 17, it is playing really long with the wind and everything blowing sideways, it's tough to hit it right at the pin.   You have to really aim far away from the pin, so that's the tough part.   Yeah, I mean, the course was playing a bit long for me, and on the back nine, I was hitting like rescues, 5‑woods, 3‑woods. 

Q.   What happened on your shot on 14, the third shot on the par5? 
INBEE PARK:   That was a really bad lie, and everything was going into the grain and going into the wind.   I thought it wasn't going to come out very nice, but actually it came out really hot and ran‑‑ I think it ran a lot.   I didn't see the shot. 

Q.   You were still able to save par there, so maybe you didn't score as well as you wanted to, you still had some big putts, actually, on the back. 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, especially on 13, 14, the par5, great save there.   You know, I made some good putts out there today.   Made some great saves.   I think everybody would have made some great saves today.   I think a lot of people was putting for pars this afternoon. 
Yeah, that's something that you have to deal with when you're playing with the wind.   It's tough playing with the wind. 

Q.   Are you still in it? 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I would say you just never know what's going to happen the next two days.   Especially if the conditions get tougher, I think anything could happen out here.

Q.   Some people love to play from the lead and some people like to come from behind.   Do you mind trying to catch up? 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I don't mind both ways.   When you're behind, you feel a little bit less pressure, but you have to play harder to get there. 

Q.   What did you do on the first hole? 
INBEE PARK:   I missed the green to the right and didn't get up‑and‑down from there. 

Q.   That drive on 1 was probably‑‑ did that get you off to a little bit of a bad‑‑
INBEE PARK:   It was left.   I was trying to avoid right because I missed a couple of shots right yesterday.   The left shot, I didn't really mind. 

Q.   Can you think of a putt where you felt like the way you hit it, that the pressure was there, when you're talking about your swing? 
INBEE PARK:   I mean, I don't feel it like in one putt or some putts, but just I think overall, you know, I think I just feel it‑‑ I don't know exactly what putts or what shots I hit. 

Q.   How have you handled other people here, everybody is asking you so many questions everywhere, so how do you think?   How do you handle this? 
INBEE PARK:   Well, this is pretty much the only week I'm going to get that much, so I should enjoy this moment (laughter).   I'm trying to enjoy every moment that I'm here.   Yeah, it's something different, and yeah, I should enjoy this moment. 

Q.   Did you foresee this, that you would one day have all these people around you? 
INBEE PARK:   I mean, it feels a little bit awkward for me, but this is coming with good playing and with great results of golf. 
So, yeah, I'm happy with it. 

Q.   When you talk about having the experience of feeling the pressure and it will help you the rest of your career, do you think this could all relate, sort of, to when Annika played the Colonial, and having gone through that experience, it helped her the rest of the way?
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I think so.   When you experience something big like this, some kind of big pressure like this, you're just really not afraid of any kind of pressure.   How can this get bigger than this?   If you experience something like this, you're just ready to go and ready to experience something‑‑ anything's going to be less than this. 

Q.   When you go back to your room at night, do you feel more exhausted than a typical week, just carrying the load of everyone?
INBEE PARK:   I mean, not exactly.   I think I still have a lot of energy, so I don't feel like I'm exhausted when I go home, especially with weather here, it's not so hot, so it doesn't really exhaust you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT