CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 23, 2013
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   I'd like to welcome in our co‑leader, Inbee Park, into the interview room.   Thanks for coming in.   You're at 8‑under, another very solid day of golf.   Just take us through today what was really working for you?   
INBEE PARK:   Everything worked really well out there.   I hit the ball really good, and I obviously putted really good out there.   I mean, a couple of the bogeys on the front nine toward the end a little disappointed.   It was very makeable putts, but I missed a three‑footer and a six‑footer.   We got through about everything else, but I gave myself a lot of opportunities and made a lot of opportunities.  
THE MODERATOR:   Yesterday you mentioned that missing a couple putts and really trying to move on.   Have you gotten to the point now where you're missing putts but doing a better job of putting it behind you because you're not used to missing any?   
INBEE PARK:   Not really.   I wouldn't say‑‑ I'm not used to missing really.   On these greens, you can two‑putt from anywhere.   I think it's pretty good.   If you slightly overhit it, you can easily three‑putt.   So the three‑putt is something that I was trying to avoid.   I kind of three‑putted just off the green on number 2 which was a little disappointing.   Except for that, I think I putted really good and putted really solid out there.  
   
 Q.   I had asked Cristie about you guys playing off each other, and it kind of looked like you exchanged birdies back and forth.   Talk about playing with her and any momentum that you guys were playing off each other or getting a little competitive there?   
INBEE PARK:   I think it's always good when you're playing with a partner while she's making a lot of birdies and it makes you want to have more birdies.   It already felt like a final round, and trying to make more birdies and trying to get the momentum going.   So I think it's really good.  
   
 Q.   Your start when you holed it from the sand on number 1, how far was that shot from about?   
INBEE PARK:   About 20 yards.  
   
 Q.   Does that set you up with a good feeling the rest of the day?   
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I always love to start with a birdie.   It's like a good luck charm for me.   I almost never finish around over par when I start with a birdie, and I love to start the hole with a birdie.   That was a good start.  
   
 Q.   Were any of your birdies from long range or any of the short ones you hit in?   
INBEE PARK:   I think that was the longest one, actually.   I think most of them were probably within 15 feet.   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Hitting really close, did you almost jerk?   
INBEE PARK:   A couple of the ones were like a couple feet, like three feet from the hole, yeah.  
   
 Q.   Just more a human interest question.   What do you do when you're not doing golf?   Do you have hobbies that you love?   Are you into K‑Pop at all?   
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I listen to Korean music.  
   
 Q.   Who is your favorite K‑Pop group?   
INBEE PARK:   I have a lot of them.   But recently I liked the Korean singer, Psy.   I like him.   It's called A Girls Generation.   I like their songs.  
   
 Q.   Have you ever put any songs in your mind to give you some energy to play at all?   
INBEE PARK:   I don't really think about music when I'm on the golf course, no.  
   
 Q.   What thoughts do you have?   Are you just pure focus?   
INBEE PARK:   Just when I'm walking I just think about whatever.   I think of anything.   Whenever I'm trying to concentrate, I try to concentrate on one thing, whatever that is, I try to set a goal before I go to the round.  
   
 Q.   Earlier this week you said how relaxed and rested you are after a couple weeks off and after the experience in Scotland.   Now that you're 36 holes and on the lead, who knows what's going to happen the rest of the day, but has your thought process changed at all in terms of where you are with your confidence and your game?   
INBEE PARK:   No, I mean, not exactly.   I'm just trying to play with the same mindset as I came here with this week.   I felt a lot more relaxed.   Like I said, I felt less pressure and I'm trying to keep that going.   You know, just trying to put a good thing and a good stroke, and that's what I'm going to try to do all week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT