CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 22, 2013
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Just talk about the round, the course, how everything unfolded today.   
INBEE PARK:   Well, the course dried out a lot so it played a little bit shorter than it did in the practice round, so I was hitting a little bit shorter irons, so I was able to attack some pins and I was able to make more birdies than I thought I could have made out there.   I putted really good out there today, so I feel really good about it.  
   
 Q.   Is that something Brad helped you with a lot in terms of yardages and changing clubs?  
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I mean, a lot of the holes we needed to change our plans, hitting like 3‑wood, 5‑wood off the tee instead of hitting driver almost every hole.   Tomorrow morning it'll play a little bit longer probably with the cold weather, but the course is playing very fair, and I think it's a very good challenging course.  
   
 Q.   When you have to do that throughout a round do you think that helps you concentrate and really kind of look into each and every shot in terms of yardage, or when you said you had to change your game plan does that throw you off?  
INBEE PARK:   It doesn't, because it's most likely we're hitting a shorter club, and we're almost having the same distance.   I mean, the course was playing a little bit shorter, so it really played to my advantage, hitting a lot of short irons.   I don't mind changing plans.   It always happens in golf.   We don't play the same golf course every day.  
   
 Q.   What was the wind like today?  
INBEE PARK:   There was no wind out there today, so it was a perfect day for scoring, and also the fairways dried out a lot.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
INBEE PARK:   Well, the first couple bogeys were not that bad of shots, but out of the rough it's just tough to judge how much release you're going to get.   I have been getting like 20 to 30 releases, sometimes I get 10, sometimes I get 30, so a couple of bad bounces on the first couple holes were the bogeys.   
   
 Q.   A lot of the girls in the later tee times were struggling with the greens.   Were they really quick in the afternoon?   
INBEE PARK:   Well, overall I think the greens are just really quick and pure.   Even if we play in the afternoon, they might quicken up a little bit, but they are still so pure it doesn't get bumpy.   I love these greens.  
   
 Q.   Nice little break between the British and here.   What did you do in that time off?   
INBEE PARK:   Well, just pretty much everything.   I had to do some things for sponsors, I did some charity work, I did some TV stuff, I did some media, I spent time with family.   I was just really busy.   Everything really kept my busy.  
   
 Q.   Why do you think this year has been such a breakout year?   You're at the top; what happened?   How did it evolve?   
INBEE PARK:   Well, I think I've played really well in the tournaments that I had chances.   I don't really have a good answer for that.   It just clicked.   
   
 Q.   It's amazing how many Korean players are at the top right now.   There's an overall movement.   Why is that?  
INBEE PARK:   Since I got on the Tour there was always a lot of Koreans on the top.   I think everybody is just inspiring each other, and when your friends are playing so good, you want to play so good as her.   I think it's really good, and it's pressure for each other.  
   
 Q.   You've formed sort of a club almost, haven't you?   
INBEE PARK:   There is no clubs, but we hang around a lot together, yeah.   
   
 Q.   If somebody sees an issue with your swing, will they tell you?   Do you guys discuss that with each other?  
INBEE PARK:   Well, sometimes we try to help each other out on the greens.   Sometimes we help each other out on the swings, yeah.  
   
 Q.   If this would have been last year and you hadn't had the start you had, would you have been bothered by your start today, or is it your confidence coming through a little bit that you didn't get rattled when you were down quite low on the leaderboard early?   
INBEE PARK:   Well, I mean, the first three holes doesn't really mean anything because you still have 15 more holes to play, and I was just 1‑over, and on this golf course that's not that bad of a score.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT