U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 29, 2013
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How was today different than the other two days? 
INBEE PARK:   Obviously, the wind was a bit stronger than yesterday, so the conditions were tough.   The pin positions were tough, a lot of long irons hitting into the greens.   It was just a very tough day, but I think I battled it really good out there.   I had my tough times in the middle but ended up finishing very good, so I'm happy with that.

Q.   Can you talk about bouncing back from those bogeys? 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I mean, 11 and 12 was a tough hole, and it wasn't that bad of a bogey.   You could make up a couple of bogeys.   But 13 was a little bit disappointing, and I think that actually got me going after that bogey.   I mean, I was actually very generous on number 11 and 12.   Those two bogeys were okay, but 13, that bogey was a bad bogey, so after that I really got my concentration going after that.

Q.   We don't think of you as getting mad, but it sounds like after 13 you were a little mad? 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I mean, that was a very bad bogey.   I was looking for a birdie, but that bogey, that was two shots right there.   Yeah, that was disappointing.

Q.   You have a great team work relationship with your caddie.   What is that like and how long have you been together with him? 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, we've spent a lot of time together.   He's a very good friend of mine.   Yeah, I mean, we've been reading the putts very good together.   I think it's just the relationship between the two of us is just great.   You get to rely on somebody on the course, and I think that's a big help.

Q.   I ask that because one of the other players fired her caddie during the middle of the round.   Have you ever seen that before? 
INBEE PARK:   Not in my group, I've never experienced that before in the middle.   That wouldn't be good.

Q.   (Indiscernible) when you hit the putt, what are you thinking? 
INBEE PARK:   I try to keep the right rhythm.   I just try to make it.   I'm trying to hit it where I aim.   I like Ai's stroke, she has a very good rhythm through the ball with the swing and the putting stroke, so, yeah, I like her.

Q.   The putt on 14, how confident are you feeling standing over that putt after 13?   It's a tough putt, so what are you feeling? 
INBEE PARK:   At the first point I'm thinking the second shot to go over the ridge was a little bit unlucky there.   Yeah, so I mean going into the breeze I thought it would be a little bit slower.   I hit it a little bit aggressive, but I went too aggressive, and obviously I had the right line.   I think that was just a very lucky putt.

Q.   Do you love being in front going into the final day?   I mean, you were in the lead at the LPGA and it just seems you're very comfortable leading going into the last day. 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I mean, I like to play in front of the leaders and I like to be leading also at the same time.   I mean, leading means that you played better than everybody else for three days and you're in the best position going into the final day, so I think you have an advantage over others. 
You probably have a little more pressure, but I think you should be able to handle that.

Q.   There is a lot of history on the line tomorrow.   How do you keep from getting lost in that moment? 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I mean, I'm just going to try to do the same thing that I did for the last three days.   Yeah, I mean, it will be a big day, but it's just a round of golf, and I just try not to think about it so much.   I just try to concentrate on whatever I'm doing on the golf course. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT