U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 29, 2013
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  CHRISTINA LANCE:   Good afternoon, everyone.   We are here with our leader at the 2013 U.S. Women's Open, Inbee Park, who is actually our 2008 Women's Open Champion.   Today returned a 1‑under par 71, today's only under par round for an overall 10‑under 206.   Inbee, you had the stretch of the three bogeys there the first maybe wobble we've seen from you this week.   But overall you still looked outstanding out there.   How do you feel? 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I think I played very good today, especially after the three bogeys.   I came back very strong.   I mean, overall playing today I think I putted very good.   I probably putted the best out of all the three days.   Yeah, it was tough out there with the wind.   It was probably the strongest that we've played all week, and the pin positions were just really tough out there today.   So I mean, it was a very grinding day. 
CHRISTINA LANCE:   If you could very quickly just walk us through the four birdies and three bogeys that you had today? 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, number 9 was a pitching wedge to three feet. 
And number 11 was, I hit 6‑iron into the right rough, hit it to 20 feet and didn't make that. 
Number 12, I hit it into the bunker with 6‑iron and that was to about 20 feet. 
Number 13, my third chip which was like 20 yards from the green, I hit it into the green side bunker and then didn't get up‑and‑down from there. 
Number 14, I hit 6‑iron over the ridge of the green about a 30‑footer and made that. 
And 15, I hit a pitching wedge to 15‑18 feet. 
And Number 18, I hit it out of the bunker about ten feet.

Q.   You talked a little bit about the putt on 14, but, again, just how big a relief was that for you after those three bogeys?   What was going through your head after that? 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I mean, that was a big putt for me.   Yeah, those three bogeys were very tough to handle in the kind of situation that I was in.   You know, I thought the putt was going to be a little bit slow going into the wind, but it ended up being very quick, quicker than I thought.   It was a bit strong, but I think I was just very lucky.   I think I was just lucky there, purely.

Q.   When you have a multiple shot lead in the weekend of a major, how do you keep from getting kind of complacent and just kind of ho‑hum out there? 
INBEE PARK:   Well, I think I'm just going to think that I.K. and I am tied starting in tomorrow's play because anything can happen out here.   I mean, four shots, it could be nothing around this golf course.   So it can't be too‑‑ I just have to keep pushing myself to make pars.   I think par is going to be good enough tomorrow, but I'm just going to try to do my best. 
A lot of thinking going on, a lot of pressure.   But I've done that before, so I think the experience is going to help me going through it tomorrow.

Q.   You go into tonight with the lead, you said; what are your plans for the evening? 
INBEE PARK:   Probably just make dinner and try to go to sleep.   I might not get too much sleep, but I'm going to try to sleep and be fresh for tomorrow.   What else can you ask for?   I'll probably have a good time with my family and friends back home.   Yeah, just trying to have fun.   I'm going to enjoy tomorrow anyway.   Whether I win or not, I'm just going to try to enjoy tomorrow.

Q.   Inbee, I'm curious about your putting grip with the cross‑hand style.   When did you start using that and why has that been effective for you? 
INBEE PARK:   Just when I started playing golf I just started that way.   I never gripped the other way, never.   So that's just been how I've been putting for a long time.   And at the time, I had a coach‑‑ I mean, he's not like the coach that I have now, but I was just like 10 years old.   Coach told me to try that grip, and I tried it, and I just stayed that way. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT