THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 25, 2019
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Inbee Park, 65, 6-under.  You birdied four of the final five holes.  What clicked into gear at the end of this round?
INBEE PARK: I think just at the end of the round it was just mostly the putting that just went in.  I hit shots close, but I was able to hole some good putts out there today, so it was a big relief.
And obviously starting the first day with seven birdies is always a great feeling.  This golf course you can make a lot bogeys out here, so you got to avoid that next three days.  I think that will be the strategy:  try to avoid the bogeys.
Q. This season you talk about how your putter has just not been there.  You had 27 putts today, a few better than your average this season.  What's it like to finally have the putter turn around?
INBEE PARK: Yeah, I always kind of thought that if I can have the putting average under maybe 28, 29 it would be very ideal and probably will be able to win with the golf tournament.
That's what I'm trying to do all week this week.  Hopefully I can read these greens right and hole some putts out there.
Q. You won here in 2012, and your last three appearances you finished in the top 10.  What is it about the Evian Resort Golf Course that fits your game so well?
INBEE PARK: You know, played so many times on this golf course.  This is my 13th year playing, so it's just more than probably like 50 times I played on this golf course.  I know this golf course really, really well.  This golf course has been a great memory of me.
Winning golf tournament in 2012 really got me started to be really, really well on my golfing career.  It's a special tournament for me in my heart, and I think maybe the positive attitude is just helping out.
Q. What is the biggest lesson you've learned over the 13 appearances about this golf course?
INBEE PARK: I mean, this golf course can really get you.  The tee shot is really, really important on this golf course.  Rough is up and fairways are narrow.  The greens are quite tricky.
Once you hit the shots you got to read the putts.
Q. Well played.
INBEE PARK: Thank you.
Q. On a scale of one to ten, one being the worst and ten being the best, what mark would you give yourself today?
INBEE PARK: I think today was nearly ten, but maybe save the best for the last.  Maybe nine; hopefully ten to come for next three days.
Q. That bunker shot at 14 for birdie, talk us through that.
INBEE PARK: Yeah, I hit my tee shot just a little bit past the hole.  That bunker is definitely the popular spot on that hole.  I've been there and I've done the practice there.  I knew that I had to be quite cute from that bunker shot.  I hit a perfect shot and hit the hole and just went in.
Q. Mel Reid was saying the bunkers are very sandy.  Do you agree with that?
INBEE PARK: Yes, bunkers have a lot of sand, especially in the fairway bunkers.  It's really tough to get the ball clean.  I think it's a little bit easier on the greenside.  Sometimes hard to control the spin when you have so much sand.
But except for that, I think just try to stay out of bunkers and just -- or just hole it.
Q. You've won the majors many times, all the majors apart from the Evian.  How badly do you want this one?
INBEE PARK: Evian has always been in a special place in my heart.  I won this tournament in 2012 just before it became major.  Since then my golfing like was totally changed.  I've changed so many things since that Evian Championship.  This tournament is so special to me.
This is just when all the history began for me, so special place.
Q. One final question:  How are you tackling 18?  Are you laying up?  Going for the green in two?
INBEE PARK: I think it's just depending on the distance.  If I have under 200, maybe I think about going for it.  But other than that, if you're in the rough or just maybe more than 200, I think I'm just going to lay up.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT