U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 2013
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   We're here with the champion; your second win of the U.S. Women's Open.   You looked so calm all day.   How calm were you after your finish on Sunday?   
INBEE PARK:   I had a four‑shot lead going into Sunday, but you just never know what's going to happen out there.   I was really nervous last night at home.   Everywhere I was really nervous, but as soon as I was on the golf course, it somehow made me really feel calm and somehow it really made me concentrate on golf.   
Yeah, I played so good this week.   I'm very proud of myself.   I just don't know what I did.   I mean, I knew what I was playing for, but if I thought about it for once, I probably wouldn't be able to do it.   It's a great record, and it hasn't been broken for over 50 years.   I've done it, and I just can't believe it.  
   
 Q.   How did you stop thinking about it?   
INBEE PARK:   I mean it comes to me from time to time when I'm on the golf course too, but I don't know.   I think just a lot of experience this week from the tournaments where I was going into the final round, winning a lot of tournaments before this took a little bit of pressure off of me.   I just thought, even if I don't win this week, it's okay.   I've played very good golf for three days, and I'm just happy that I could actually play for a win tomorrow.   I mean, that's all I could ask for.  
   
 Q.   You win this tournament in 2008 and you go 72 events without winning on the LPGA, and now in the last 12 months you've won eight times including three majors in a row.   What do you make of this 12‑month stretch?   
INBEE PARK:   I don't know.   It has been chaos.   One year, I mean, a lot of things happened in one year.   I've won a lot of golf tournaments.   I've played fantastic golf over the year.   It's really scary to think what I'm really capable of doing.   I don't know what my limit is.   Every day I try to play my best, and every day I try to break my record, yeah.  
   
 Q.   And what do you do to celebrate this evening and for the rest of the week because the LPGA has a week off?   
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I mean, it's great because I get a week off after a major championship, and I get to enjoy it with my family.   My family came from Korea and they're spending time with me on the off.   So I'm sure we'll have a good times and parties.   Yeah, it's just great that I get to spend this kind of great moment with family.  
   
 Q.   Enjoy, party hard.   You deserve it, and we'll see you in a couple of week's time.   Thanks, Inbee, well done.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT