U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 28, 2013
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CHRISTINA LANCE:   We are here with Inbee Park, shot 6 birdies and two bogeys today en route to a 68 and an overall 9‑under 135.   Inbee, you got done before the fog came in, it's got to be a relief to be done today.  
INBEE PARK:   Yes, I think we got very lucky that we finished today.   I played very good golf today.   I gave myself a lot of good opportunities, a very good ball striking day.   The long putts seemed to be going well today.   I left a couple out there, but very satisfied with today's score.   
CHRISTINA LANCE:   If you could give us a quick rundown of your birdies and bogeys, a little detail?   
INBEE PARK:   Number 1 was 21 degree rescue to about six feet.   Number 5, hit it into the fairway bunker, hit it out and hit about 20 feet past and two‑putted.   
Number 6, I hit 8‑iron just off the green about a 30‑footer, just over a 30‑footer, made that one.   
7, I hit 7‑iron to the right and chipped it to about seven feet, missed that.   
8, I hit a sand wedge to about 15 feet, 20 feet, I made that one.   
13, what's 13?   Yeah, 13, I hit a 51 degree over the green about a 20‑footer and made that.   
15, sand wedge to about a foot.   
18 sand wedge to a 12‑footer, yeah.  
   
 Q.   How bad was the fog, and was it affecting your putting any on 18?   
INBEE PARK:   Well, I'd say it was a little tougher to play in the fog, but I made a birdie so I don't think it really came into effect for me.   I was able to see the pin on the third shot, so I think that was good enough.   Yeah, I hit the ball where I wanted to, and I was able to read the greens.  
   
 Q.   Do you like the idea that now when your name is on top of a leaderboard, that there is an intimidation factor?   I think people say, wow, she's up there.   I don't know if we can catch her.   Do you sort of enjoy that factor?   
INBEE PARK:   I think everyone would enjoy that kind of feeling where you're playing very good golf and everybody wants to play as good as you.   Yeah, I think I've been into positions where I was looking at Annika or Lorena or Yani playing so good, and trying to play like them and trying to improve myself, trying to push myself.   I think that's a good inspiration for everyone.  
   
 Q.   I was just wondering if you could maybe talk a little bit about I.K.   She had that disappointment a couple years ago, but she's still pursuing a major.   She played pretty well this morning.   Just some of your thoughts on her game?   
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, she had her tough time two years ago at the Nabisco, but I think she handled herself very good in a very positive way.   She came back very strong, and she's a very consistent player.   Yeah, I mean, I watched her playing yesterday on TV and she was playing very solid.   I'm looking forward to playing with her.  
   
 Q.   What are your memories of that 2005 Junior Amateur against her?   
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I think I lost to I.K. in the final, but I think I was just very proud of myself that I made it to the final.   It was Match Play, and Match Play was so hard that you have to beat everyone on the way.   I think that just made me a lot stronger and hopefully this time I can play a little better.  
   
 Q.   When you're playing in a pairing with a 1, 2, 3, but 2 and 3 aren't playing as well, is that an even quieter than usual threesome?   What was the vibe out there?   Because you were playing well and Suzann was struggling.   
INBEE PARK:   I think you just get ‑‑ I think it just happens on the major tournaments where if you're not playing so well, you can shoot a lot of different numbers here.   Yeah, I mean, I think we still got quite a bit of a crowd.   We got a lot of Stacy's fans following us around today.   I had a lot of family watching me playing.   I think it was a fun day, yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT