U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 27, 2013
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CHRISTINA LANCE:   Welcome to the first round of the U.S. Women's Open.   We're here with Inbee Park who has come in with a great round of 5‑under 67, carding six birdies and one bogey.   Inbee, your great play continues.   Tell us how you felt today.   
INBEE PARK:   I played very good today.   I hit the ball very good, didn't miss many fairways or greens.   I was able to take some pins today where the USGA was a little generous on us today.   A lot of tees were moved up.   
So instead of hitting like 5‑irons, we were hitting 9‑irons, and that was making the course much easier.   I was actually able to go for some pins and give myself a lot of opportunities today.   Yeah, I made a lot of putts and didn't leave much out there.   
CHRISTINA LANCE:   If we could quickly ask you to run through your card.   You started on 10, and you started right off with a birdie.   If you wouldn't mind walking us through your round really quickly.   
INBEE PARK:   You mean like shots?   
CHRISTINA LANCE:   Yes, birdies and your one bogey.  
INBEE PARK:   Number 10 was‑‑ what did I hit?   I hit a 47‑degree wedge to about a foot, and I just tapped in for birdie.   
And 14, I hit 5‑iron to seven, eight feet.  
And number 1, I hit pitching wedge to five feet.   
Number 2, I hit 5‑wood to 15‑‑ no, 10, 12 feet.   
Number 4, sand wedge to 15 feet.   
And a bogey on 6, yeah, I was in the thick grass off the tee, and I just laid it up and hit it on the green and two‑putted.   
Number 8 was a 30‑yard chip, and I did to about five feet, six feet.  
   
 Q.   On number 16, you hit a 3‑wood, I think, off the tee there or driver.   I'm sorry.   This is number 6, you hit a driver.   Were you trying to carry that bunker there?   
INBEE PARK:   No, I mean, they moved the tees up about 35 yards, and it wasn't a driver hole from behind, but then I knew I was getting into the left or right bunker.   But that hole was a quite tough hole, so I really wanted to take the risk and going with the short iron, but I pushed it and that just slightly went over the bunker into the thick stuff on the right.  
   
 Q.   And on number 16, you hit 3‑wood, I believe.   Were you trying to stay short of the bunker there?   
INBEE PARK:   16?   
   
 Q.   The uphill par‑4.   
INBEE PARK:   Yeah.   Well, 16, what did I do there?   17 is the par‑3.   I remember the par‑3, but‑‑ I was just trying to stay short of the bunker there on the right.   Driver brings the bunker into play, and it wasn't worth it.   Even the bunker is an automatic bogey.  
   
 Q.   When you make a birdie putt or you hit it close from the fairway, it's difficult for us to even see an expression change.   But I'm wondering what goes on in your head, and do you allow yourself to get excited?   What do you think when you do something really good on the course?   
INBEE PARK:   Well, I get my happy moments and I get my angry moments.   But it's just a shot in golf, and you sometimes hit a good shot.   You sometimes hit a bad shot.   I don't think it's a big deal.   You're excited inside, but you can't be too excited because you've got to play the next shot.   So I'm just trying to stay as calm as possible when I'm on the golf course.  
   
 Q.   When was the last time you stood over a putt and thought I just can't make this?   
INBEE PARK:   Maybe like a 30‑footer.   No, I've been feeling quite confident over the putts I guess the last couple of years.   
I had a little struggle with my putting in Shop Rite this year in May and maybe in the Bahamas.   After that, I really haven't felt that bad.  
   
 Q.   We hear a lot of athletes say "in the zone" when they're feeling it.   Since you've won so much at these majors and last week, do you feel like you're in that area right now in your game that you just can't be stopped at this point?   
INBEE PARK:   I mean, I do have a lot of confidence in myself at the moment.   I mean, the way I'm playing, the way things have been going, the way I've been getting the luck, I think I am in the zone.   I mean, I've been playing my best in my career at the moment.   Yeah, I mean, I really just want to enjoy the moment.  
   
 Q.   You used the word "generous."   That's not a word that most people use when they talk about the USGA in terms of set‑up.   Do you think they'll be less generous tomorrow?   
INBEE PARK:   I'm not sure about tomorrow, but I think on the weekend they'll definitely go difficult.   I think with this golf course, they can do so much on this golf course.   You could play a totally different golf course tomorrow and they can do so much with the tee boxes and pin placements.   You just can't expect anything from them.   They can do whatever they want.  
   
 Q.   And along that same line, this course was played completely different than when you practiced on this week, didn't it?   I mean, no wind, some receptive greens.   Were you surprised that you got those conditions?   
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I mean, I never had practiced from those tees, so I was a little bit shocked when I went to the tees.   I didn't know what line I had to hit to.   I mean, it was just a learning experience today.   But I didn't hit‑‑ I hit my shots where I wanted to today, which helped a lot.  
   
 Q.   As many great birdie putts as you made today, you also missed two or three short ones.   The last hole, number 18, and I think number 15.   What happens there and what do you tell yourself after you miss a makeable putt?   
INBEE PARK:   I just tell myself when putts are not going in, I mean, it's going to go in maybe the next hole or some time.   I mean, you can't miss everything.   We have 18 holes to play, even if you miss a couple putts, you'll get more opportunities.   It's bound to go in.   You have your handicap.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT