U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 27, 2013
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Just your general thoughts on how the round went?   
INBEE PARK:   This morning, I think we almost had a perfect condition for scoring.   A lot of the tees were moved up.   I played on the tees that I had never played from on the practice round.   I mean, it was playing a lot shorter than the practice rounds, so I was able to go in with a little more short irons, and I was able to attack the pins a little bit and gave myself a lot of opportunities and made a lot of putts to day.  
   
 Q.   Was it what you had expected in terms of conditions?   How much different was it?   
INBEE PARK:   I mean, they can still make this golf course really tough, but today I think they were maybe expecting a little bit of bad weather, so a little bit of the tees were moved up.   
So I think we had to take advantage of today of good scoring.   I mean, they can play around with this golf course so much that it can play so long tomorrow and so short the next day.   It just depends on the weather and where they put the tee.   
I think it was very fair today.  
   
 Q.   Did you have a score in mind for today?   
INBEE PARK:   I think anywhere in red numbers were good today, yeah.  
   
 Q.   How do you think you played today?   
INBEE PARK:   I played really good today.   I hit the ball very good.   I didn't miss many fairways or greens, and I hit a lot of shots really close.   Yeah, I putted really good.   I made some great up‑and‑downs from around the greens.  
   
 Q.   Are you the best putter in the world?   If not, who is better?   
INBEE PARK:   I don't know.   I think there are a lot of good putters on this TOUR, I think.   I think Stacy is one of the good putters, yeah.  
   
 Q.   But do you feel like you're kind of in a groove with the putter?   Have you ever been on a run like this when you were younger?   
INBEE PARK:   No, especially with the putting, I don't think I've been‑‑ I don't think I've ever putted this good in my life ever.   I think I'm putting my best in my career at the moment.  
   
 Q.   Do you look at everything and assume it's going to go in?   Everything you stand over?   
INBEE PARK:   No.   I mean, sometimes maybe inside 15 feet I try to make it.   You know, it comes down to some days I can really concentrate well, and a lot of putts go in that day, and sometimes I have trouble concentrating somehow and I miss quite a bit of putts that day.   I think it's just really ‑‑ it all comes down to the focusing and concentrating.  
   
 Q.   One of the things that the USGA likes to do is put the top three ranked players in the world together.   They did it at the men's and they did it here.   What was that like, the top three players in the world playing together?   
INBEE PARK:   I really enjoyed playing with Suzann and Stacy.   We had quite quick group, three quick players.   It just makes your day much easier when you play with quick players.   I'm one of the quick players, so I think it was a perfect match‑up.   Yeah, we had a great time.  
   
 Q.   Could this day have gone much better?   I mean, first day of a major, you've got to feel pretty good.   
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I think I'm in the best position I could be in.   I didn't leave many out there.   Probably left a couple out there, but I made up a couple, so I think I had pretty much everything that I could have done today.  
   
 Q.   What was the longest putt you made today, and what was the shortest putt you missed?   
INBEE PARK:   Longest putt today would have been like 20 feet today.   I didn't put myself in like long, long putts today.   I think everything was pretty much inside like 30 feet today.  
   
 Q.   What was the shortest putt you did?   
INBEE PARK:   I don't think I missed any that were inside six feet today, no.  
   
 Q.   How are you a different golfer right now than compared to a year ago when you began this run?   
INBEE PARK:   I think I'm just a lot more experienced, and I think I've been in contention a lot of times.   So I don't feel as pressured as before.   You know, when I'm in the winning position, I know what I need to do.   I just don't get as nervous as before.  
   
 Q.   Have you done a whole lot different with your putting?   
INBEE PARK:   No, not at all.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT