KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 22, 2019
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How do feel about the round out there?
INBEE PARK: Yeah, played a little bit easier than the last couple days we played and a lot of wind the last couple days.
So, today was obviously really good day especially with bogey-free round was great, especially really good front-9 but on the back-9 I think I could have made couple more but I think the opportunities flew by.
But, yeah, just another day like today would be nice tomorrow.
Q. How do you feel about Hannah and her position?
INBEE PARK: Yeah.  I think it's just a matter of how I can putt.  Today was -- today's front-9 was probably like the putting stroke that I was looking for.  Last couple days my ball-striking was fine but I felt like my putting wasn't there.
I should say maybe last couple of years just the putting just wasn't there.  Everything else about the game was solid.  So, I can keep that going and hopefully I can make some more putts.
Q. What did you think of 16 today and take advantage of?
INBEE PARK: I thought it was really, really, really great move and it made a lot of people go at the pin, at the green.  If you miss it, it's really tough up and down.
So I think it is actually a really good hole and obviously eagle-able as well if it comes down to tough finish.  So, yeah, I think it's a great move.
Q. How do you feel about your game overall like this year?
INBEE PARK: Yeah, I feel really good, just you know, I'm not quite that far off the tee so 10, 11, 12, 13, is really, really tough holes for me, especially yesterday like some holes I was going in there with like 5-woods and 3-woods.  Made it really tough.
Today with less wind I was able to play those holes little bit easier.  So, hopefully I can put the wind down a little bit.  Yeah, just the back-9 is a little bit of a challenge for me.  But, other than that, I think they are birdie opportunities out there.
Q. Everybody who saw you at Interlachen in 2008 talks about the putter.  How long was your stretch of really putting?
INBEE PARK: I think putting really, really good until probably 2016, maybe, yeah, then maybe last couple of years or so my ball-striking got a lot better.  I hit a lot more greens which gave a lot more opportunities.
So it feels like I'm missing more putts and I think I did miss more putts.  Yeah.  I think just went the other way, ball-striking got better and putter got a little bit maybe not as sharp as before but I'm definitely looking for like one of the Interlachen days of putting tomorrow.
Q. Is there less pressure being in the chase position that you're in right now?
INBEE PARK: Yeah.  I mean this is I think the best I can put myself today.  Last couple of days was really tough conditions and I thought even par was not a bad score out there, especially yesterday with that 20-mile per hour wind, it was really tough out there.
Yeah, I think bogey-free round today I'm really satisfied with it and just don't know what's going to happen tomorrow and with the tees moved up, I don't know how the weather is -- what the weather is going to do.  Final day of a Major.
Q. What makes this course so hard, Inbee?
INBEE PARK: I really think it's a lot to do with the distance, the irons, the long irons, the hybrids and woods that we're going into the holes and luckily we had some rain so the green is little bit softer but if the green was firm I think some of the pins here you can't go for it and really try hard to make the course fair to everybody and I think the PGA of America is doing a good job of setting up the golf course.
Q. Was the bounce you got on 18, might be in a bunker there a bit?
INBEE PARK: Bad shot, second shot.  I think either in the bunker or even in the rough, it was pretty tough shot.  I thought, you know, walking away with a par was a great finish.
Q. Inbee, compared to a decade ago, how far are the big hitters hitting it compared to then?
INBEE PARK: I played with Lexi and Ariya the first two days.  I really felt like I was really, really behind, really couldn't keep up with them and yeah, they hit it really, really far and just the golf course that they're playing is totally different than mine.
Q. Have you thought at all about, reflected at all on your first Major win at Interlachen being this tournament is back in the same area?
INBEE PARK: Lot of the stories I can think of coming to the Minnesota area again and really I was really pleased with so many people still remember me, 11 years that it's been, but so many times out here, still rooting for me, still remember 2008 U.S. Women's Open.
I was really happy with that.  Got really good vibes from them.  Hopefully I can pull something off tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT