NORTH TEXAS LPGA SHOOTOUT
April 25, 2013
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We welcome Inbee Park to the interview room.   Congratulations.   A great first round, 4‑under par, 67.   Take me through your day out there.   What was really working well and how were you able to put together such a great round today? 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah.   There was no wind today, in the morning.   It was perfect conditions of scoring out there today this morning. 
I hit the ball really good.   I hit a lot of fairways and greens.   Putted really good on the front nine.
Back nine I probably missed a couple of four or five‑footers.   That's been my only mistake of the day.   And everything else has been going very good.
THE MODERATOR:   Was there any certain hole you can kind of point to that got you going in the right direction today? 
INBEE PARK:   I gotta say No. 8 when I made my third birdie.   Yeah, because it was almost going in the hazard and it just stopped a foot short of the hazard and I made birdie from there.   So that was a turning point.
THE MODERATOR:   When you talk about this golf course and we know it's harder when the wind is picking up.   When you have a day like today, is it really kind of a thought that you gotta take advantage because the weather looks like it could change, maybe some rain and possibly more wind on the weekend? 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I think so.   We might not get this kind of day the next two days.   So when it's good you gotta score good.   And my game was going really good out there today, so I was able to score today.
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Inbee. 

Q.   Okay.   I've gotta ask, what happened for your bogey that you had on 14?   What happened there?
INBEE PARK:   Yeah.   I just missed the green and I used the putter, but I just two‑putted from there.

Q.   You said it's not really windy out there.   That wasn't kind of what you guys expected when you went out there, was it?
INBEE PARK:   We played in really tough conditions the last two days; wind, cold, yeah, everything that you could ask for.   It was very tough and cold. 
But today it was very warm and nice, so it was a totally different golf course today.
THE MODERATOR:   Talking about missing some of the putts, everybody's been talking about how fast these greens are.   Has it been kind of an adjustment getting used to that, and do you think that's kind of led to maybe some of the putting woes today? 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah.   It was quite different with the speed because it's such a difference from last week.   But I'm very glad that I'm playing the fast greens.   I love fast greens, rolling greens. 
Last week was a very challenge for me with slow and grainy greens which I struggle, but I was able to play better last week.
So this is tough to adjust, but I love the greens here. 

Q.   Your driving distance was 271 yards today and you mentioned being just a foot short on No. 8.   Did you get a lot of rollout today on the fairways?   Were they cut a little tighter?
INBEE PARK:   Yeah.   It was 260 out of the hazard.   I hit it through and it went about 60 yards, and that's been the run that I've been getting all day today.   I'm not driving 270.   It's firm and faster here. 
THE MODERATOR:   Any more questions for Inbee?   All right.   Thank you very much and best of luck this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT