WEGMANS LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 7, 2013
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Solid start first day, even par.   Kind of take me through the day and what was really working well for you?  
INBEE PARK:   I was hitting the ball great today.   I mean didn't putt as well as I thought I would have, but I mean I putted really bad last week, and it was getting better this week.   So I mean that's a positive to take.  
And I mean I played very good until the last hole.   I had a double on the last hole, which two holes that I came today was just bad clubbing for the back pins.   I was going too aggressive and just hitting it over the greens a couple of times and that was my only mistake.  
   
 Q.   Take me through 18.   What happened on 18?  
INBEE PARK:   I hit the drive on the left side and punched out.   It was like 100 yards, I was in between club, and I decided to control the bigger club, and it was just over the green, which you know, you shouldn't be there.   Just wrong club.   
   
 Q.   Coming off having won the first major of the year, now the second one, do you feel ‑‑ I mean sometimes people talk about the Slam, different things that go on.   Do you start thinking about majors after you kind of capture one early in the year?  
INBEE PARK:   Yeah.   I mean you get to think about it a little bit more than ‑‑ because since I won the first major and I want to do it really bad this week, too, but it's a tough golf course, and you know, I'll take even par every day here.   It's not a bad start.   And I have three more days to play this good.  
   
 Q.   And just how nice was it?   I mean you guys saw how much rain out there.   To be able to come out here and play this morning and actually get out there on time?  
INBEE PARK:   I think they've done a great job of cleaning all the water on this golf course for us.   I was really surprised that we were actually starting on time today.   That was a very good effort.  
Yeah, and the course is in fairly good condition.   It was in perfect condition before it rained.   But I feel kind of bad for them.   It was in best condition ever, and they got this much rain, but I mean I'm sure it's going to be all right.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT