NORTH TEXAS LPGA SHOOTOUT
April 27, 2013
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Okay.   We'd like to welcome Rolex Rankings No. 1 Inbee Park back to the media center yet again.   Another great round, 67 4‑under par.   You're two shots off the lead here at the inaugural North Texas LPGA Shootout.   Tell us about your day.   What went well for you?   
INBEE PARK:   When I was warming up this morning, there was a lot of wind this morning, so I thought it was going to be really tough out there today.   But luckily, you know, we didn't have much wind out there today.   It died down when we teed off, so it was playing much easier than my first day.   I was putting much better.   Hit the ball much better today.  
THE MODERATOR:   Can you take us through your birdies, what club you hit and how far the putts were?   
INBEE PARK:   Yeah.   No. 3 was par‑5.   It was downwind.   So I just hit a 6‑iron onto the green and two‑putted for birdie from there.   And on the back nine, No. 11, I hit 6‑iron to about 15 feet, made that one.   
And No. 13 or 14 ‑‑ 14 it was about I think like 15‑footer.   And No. 17 was about three‑footer.   But everything was actually 6‑iron.   No, 17 was 6‑iron and 18 was pitching wedge to almost 20‑footer.  
THE MODERATOR:   So 6‑iron was the club today?   
INBEE PARK:   Yeah.   I made two birdies with 6‑iron and a couple with the shorter ones, yeah.  
THE MODERATOR:   Just talk to us about the conditions out there.   Not too bad, a little bit breezy, especially a little bit earlier.  
INBEE PARK:   Yeah.   I mean somehow the greens were stopping a lot better.   There was a lot of shots that we were playing a little bit into the wind with the club.   So we were able to stop the ball really good on the greens, and yeah, they were stopping pretty much right there, even with 6, 7‑iron, so it was attackable pins out there today.  
THE MODERATOR:   There's still quite a few youngsters on the leaderboard, a couple of rookies.   Do you think when they see your name, knowing you've won four times since last June and you've been so consistent with the putter, do you think they are a little nervous when they see Inbee Park on the leaderboard right behind them?   
INBEE PARK:   I don't know.   You'd have to ask them.   I'm sure whatever happens, whether they win tomorrow or not win, it's going to be a very good experience for them anyway.   And yeah, they're just going to go out there tomorrow and enjoy and that's what I'm going to do, too.   
THE MODERATOR:   If we have any questions for Inbee Park.   
   
 Q.   You know, there are a couple of youngsters, but there's also the No. 3 player in the world up there.   So there is some experience.   Talk about that.   Do you look at the players differently or do you look at all players the same when you look at that group?  
INBEE PARK:   Well, I mean when it comes to the final round, I think a more experienced player definitely has an advantage going into the pressure conditions.   I think Na Yeon will be one of the ones to beat tomorrow.   She had a very good day today, and I think she's going to ‑‑ she's really good friend of mine.   We are really good friends.   She was struggling a little bit with the putter last week, and you know, she changed her putting grip, and I think it's working really good.   
   
 Q.   Tell us something we don't know about Na Yeon Choi.   
INBEE PARK:   I think you know pretty much everything about Na Yeon.   She's really nice.   I mean I can tell you we were friends since we were elementary kids.   Yeah, she was really shy, and she didn't even want to talk to people.   She was really shy.   I mean ‑‑ yeah.   Even to friends she was very shy, but now her personality has really changed.   She get along with a lot of friends, and she learned a lot of things out here now; and she worked very hard to learn English, and she is doing very well.  
   
 Q.   How nice would it be to battle with your friend Na Yeon coming down the back nine tomorrow?  
INBEE PARK:   I don't like to see so much of a battle in between friends.   I mean we had one experience in Malaysia last year.   We played in the same group, and hopefully we don't play in the same group tomorrow.   
Hopefully we just play our own game and see what the scores will be like.   It's always tough to beat friends or get beaten by friends in the same group in the last days.  
THE MODERATOR:   You talked to me the other day in the back just about how you got involved in golf and then you first came to America.   Can you just talk to the media about what it was like the first time you came to America and some of the things you had to overcome in terms of learning the language?   
INBEE PARK:   Yeah.   I mean I came here when I was in sixth grade and didn't speak a word of English.   It was very tough to get along with.   Even in the tournaments, you know, I didn't know how to say to my opponent say, can you tell the pin, and I just took it out and I just putted it not looking at the hole even.   And first if I win the tournament, I had to make a speech, so I didn't want to win.   
So I finished a lot of second places, and I felt really comfortable.   And that was, you know, that was my experience.   
THE MODERATOR:   That's very similar to Annika Sorenstam who told us back in the day she used to try to lose because she never wanted to give speeches.   You're pretty good at them now, though.   Any others for Inbee?   
   
 Q.   I just wanted to ask you about how well you've been hitting the ball this week.   Has it been like that all year or has this week been especially good?  
INBEE PARK:   I've been really good since Kraft Nabisco.   That week I hit the ball very good and this week.   
You know, I hit a lot of good tee shots and a lot in the first two rounds.   Today I was a little bit here and there with the driver, but I hit a lot of good shots with the irons.   So I'll just go work on my driver a little bit today after we finish here.   And if it helps for tomorrow, that'll be good.   
THE MODERATOR:   All right, Inbee.   Thank you so much for coming in again.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT