NORTH TEXAS LPGA SHOOTOUT
April 26, 2013
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome Rolex Rankings No. 1 Inbee Park into the interview room.   Congratulations, another solid round out there.   Just take me through your day and what was really kind of the key to your round today.   
INBEE PARK:   Yeah.   Today was a little bit more windier than yesterday.   So it was a little bit more challenging with picking clubs.  
I didn't hit the ball as good as yesterday.   I mean I didn't putt as good as yesterday.   I mean looking at the scores, you can't tell, but a couple of those putts that I just read it wrong, and especially No. 8 and 9, the last two holes, I missed a couple five‑footers.   Just left a couple out there today, but still very close to the lead and looking forward to tomorrow.  
THE MODERATOR:   I guess we've gotten so used to watching you just putt in everything, it seems, that you see.   How much was it just a read miss on those last two holes or what were you thinking on those putts?   
INBEE PARK:   No. 8 was just a very bad lip‑out.   I mean I had a pretty good putt, but it just lipped out.   You can't do much about that.   I haven't had that many lip‑outs in a while.   But it happens.   It was just one of those days.   
And the last hole looked really straight to me, but it broke left‑to‑right, and yeah, I was really confident that it was going to go straight, but it was just a bad read, and yeah, it's all right.  
THE MODERATOR:   Sometimes the breaks go your way; sometimes they don't, but it did go your way on the 18th earlier in the day.   Take me through that hole.   We saw the second shot hit the rocks and ended up getting a nice little break there.   
INBEE PARK:   Yeah.   I thought after I hit the ball, I thought it was definitely in the water because I wanted to hit it to the left on the bunker side, but I hit a push and I thought it was definitely in the water but everybody clapped, so I thought I got really lucky and ended up with a birdie on that hole.   So it was very good.   
And until that hole on the front nine I thought everything was going the right way, but back nine I didn't finish that strong.   But yeah, I got a good break on the front nine, a little bad break on the back nine, so it evens out.  
THE MODERATOR:   Sometimes a lot goes your way and sometimes maybe luckier than good.   Overall as you head into the weekend, what's the plan and do you change anything about how you approach this golf course?   
INBEE PARK:   No.   I think it's just really similar.   I mean yesterday was a lot less wind so it was a lot easier to hit more fairways.  
Today it was a lot of left‑to‑right wind with left‑to‑right fairways, which was really tough to keep it in the fairways.   And yeah, if it blows a little harder, I think I gotta aim more left and hit it like left edge of the fairway and hopefully it ends up in the fairway.   And there was a lot of holes that I really need to hit it to the left side.   That was the toughest part.  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Inbee?   In terms of the conditions out there today, like you said, the wind seemed to be a little tougher.   I also was talking to the other players who played in the afternoon and they said the course got a lot harder and firmer.   Is that something if this wind keeps up it's going to be a challenge over the next two days?   
INBEE PARK:   I thought the course was playing quite harder from yesterday also.   I mean we were playing in the morning, but you know, it was playing quite tough and it was very firm, and I was getting like 50 yards of run every hole.   So I mean I think if the wind keeps up like this, it's going to get even more hard and fast on the greens, so I think it's going to be slippery.   
THE MODERATOR:   Any other questions for Inbee?   All.   Well, thank you very much for coming in.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT