DIAMOND RESORTS TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 17, 2020
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Inbee, not a blemish on the scorecard from 36 holes. What's your game plan to attack this windy golf course today?  
INBEE PARK: Well, I didn't expect the wind today. After being so calm yesterday, I thought it was going to be similar conditions. It was definitely really different, and I was able to make a few up and downs out there to have no bogeys. So I'm really happy with the round. It was fun.   
 Q.  I was standing behind you on the 18th tee box. Larry Fitzgerald and Justin Verlander, two future Hall of Famers in their respective sports, were raving about you. What's it like for you to play alongside them?  
INBEE PARK: Justin and Larry was really good guys and really good guys to be around, and I know how much successful they are in their sports. They were really good golfers as well. So really happy to be out there with them. I had a lot of fun.   
 Q.  What's the game plan for the final 36 holes?  
INBEE PARK: No bogeys would be really, really nice. I wish I can keep that going and just try to hit a lot of greens here and give myself a lot of opportunities. That's, I think, all I can do.   
 Q.  Inbee, back-to-back bogey free rounds to start your 2020 season and take the co-lead into the weekend. How does it feel to start off on that kind of a foot?  
INBEE PARK: Yeah, I had a really good solid two rounds without the bogeys, which is really good. It's a really nice way to start the year. I haven't made many mistakes on the golf course, and that's what I really look to do all year. Hopefully, I can keep that going for the next two days. Today was definitely a little bit tougher conditions with the wind. I hit a lot longer clubs and missed a few greens, but I was able to make some great up and downs.   
 Q.  Sounds like the wind is going to stay the way it was today over the weekend. Does what you were able to accomplish today give you some hope for the weekend?  
INBEE PARK: I think everybody is playing in the same conditions, so I experienced it today, so it's going to be a little bit more easier the next two days. The golf course is going to play a little bit tough to everyone as well. Yeah, I think still there are a few birdie holes out there, so you've got to take advantage of those holes and try to make pars on those little longer holes.   
 Q.  You had a couple days to kind of get settled in. Does the weekend bring a different level of energy with where you're at?  
INBEE PARK: I think it's always fun to play in contention. That's what we play for. Especially where I'm positioned, I really love where I am positioned for the weekend. Yeah, hopefully I have a good weekend Saturday and Sunday. Yeah, it definitely gives me some excitement.   
 Q.  Justin Verlander and Larry Fitzgerald were the playing partners today. You said you had to Google them last night. What did you learn about them, and what did you learn about them today?  
INBEE PARK: They're great players in their game. They were actually really good golfers as well. So I was really surprised. They were great guys to be around, and they were really nice. We had a lot of fun.   
 Q.  What did you guys talk about out there?  
INBEE PARK: I was just really surprised how much Larry knew about women's golf and myself. I just asked him how much they love the game, how often they play. Yeah, Larry talked about when Lydia won in Canadian Open first place, like did you get the first place check because you weren't an amateur? So he asked me that. I was like, yeah, I did.   
 Q.  You're tied for the lead going into the weekend. What do you need to do to pull ahead of everyone else and secure the win?  
INBEE PARK: I think there should be still a few birdies out there to make. Girls are playing well on this golf course. So I don't know, numbers-wise, I'm not sure because depending on the conditions, but bogey-free round will definitely do it.   
 Q.  Did you feel, Inbee, like you were ready to come out and be a factor right away? Are you surprised with yourself for that?  
INBEE PARK: When I was practicing in the off-season, I was hitting the ball good, and I felt like I was putting a little better. I didn't know when it was going to come all together. The first two days has been very satisfying, but golf is a long sport, and you have to do that for four days in a row. Hopefully, I can keep my form going and hopefully some good results.   
 Q.  You're using a Sabertooth putter. When was the last time you used that?  
INBEE PARK: I used it since last year actually.   
 Q.  Since last year?  
INBEE PARK: I think CME maybe.   
 Q.  Was that when you put it in your bag?  
INBEE PARK: Yeah, a couple weeks last year.   
 Q.  What is it you like about that?  
INBEE PARK: It has so much good memories with me. It's a little different model. It's a newer model, but same head type. So the won I three majors in a row, so that gives me a really good memory.   
 Q.  Prior to those couple tournaments last year, have you used it since '13?  
INBEE PARK: I don't think I did, no. I change so many. I can't keep track.   
 Q.  Trying to get an Olympic spot, what would a win this week do for your chances?  
INBEE PARK: I think it would definitely up the chances a little bit, but we still have like 15, 20 events before the cutoff date for the Olympics. So we've got a lot of golf to play.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT