KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 5, 2013
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We would like to welcome clubhouse leader, Inbee Park to the interview room.   A 67 today with 6 birdies and 1 bogey.   Tell us about your day, pretty consistent? 
INBEE PARK:   Obviously putted really good out there, and especially on the back nine.   The wind picked up so it was tough out there on the back nine.   Last four holes I made all pars.   I'm really happy with that.   We were playing about a club and a half of a breeze there, and it was getting tough out there.   And hopefully‑‑ I'm just happy that I have a chance on the weekend that I can win this week. 
I played this golf course about eight years in my career and never really had achance on the weekend so I'm happy to be in the mix. 
THE MODERATOR:   You won your first major in 2008 at the U.S. Women's Open, but last year you had your break‑out year you got a couple of wins and then you won the money list and then won the Vare Trophy for low‑scoring average.   Tell us about how much last year helped your confidence coming in here? 
INBEE PARK:   Sure did.   I had a lot of weeks that I was in contention, I had a lot of experience winning, losing, all different kinds of experiences that helped me a lot coming into this year, also.   And, yeah, that definitely gave me a lot of confidence last year.   I think everyone would have done that. 
THE MODERATOR:   Do you feel like you're under the radar?   Like people maybe they're not surprised to see you on the leaderboard but you don't get a ton of attention. 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I know that, but I just like to stay a little quiet and just doing my own thing.   If I win a little more I think I'll get a little bit more attention. 

Q.   When did you start feeling the wind and knowing it was picking up?
INBEE PARK:   I think it was No. 14, I hit a good shot but wind took it to left and went into a bunker and made my first bogey today. 

Q.   Do you feel like you're good in the wind?   Or do you not like playing in it? 
INBEE PARK:   I do and I don't.   I don't think I'm bad in the wind because, you know, the golfers, you got to be used to the wind.   We play wind probably at least one round out of four days so you got to be used to it. 

Q.   What does it feel like to be a leader in a Major like this going into the weekend?   Do you like coming from behind or would you rather play from ahead? 
INBEE PARK:   I think it's good to be ahead because you're in better position than anybody else for the weekend. 

Q.   Obviously you have a strong record in Majors.   What do you think has stopped you from being there on Sunday afternoon in this tournament? 
INBEE PARK:   I don't know, I think it was because of‑‑ this golf course‑‑ it was playing pretty tough for me.   I never had a good two days.   This is something new on this golf course for me, and I don't know.   It's good. 

Q.   The shots that you hit in on those three straight birdies and the putt lengths?
INBEE PARK:   No. 11 was sand wedge about 2 feet and No. 12 was 9‑iron about 7, 8 feet and same on No. 13.   It was 9‑iron about 7 to 8 feet. 

Q.   I remember when you won the Women's Open, your caddy took a dive in the water there.   I don't know if you remember that. 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, yeah. 

Q.   I think somebody pushed him in.   Have you thought about what you might do?   Thought that far ahead? 
INBEE PARK:   I'm not trying to think too far ahead but my dad keeps talking about whenever I play this week, he's been talking last eight years he's going to fly from Korea if I'm in contention, so maybe he's going to fly in after tomorrow, I don't know. 

Q.   How often is your dad out here? 
INBEE PARK:   He comes three, four tournaments a year. 

Q.   You won your first Major a while ago.   Are you surprised it's taken this long?   Did you think they would come faster? 
INBEE PARK:   I don't really‑‑ it would be good to win a Major, but I think in normal tournaments are as important as the Majors, and if you can play good in normal tournaments you can do good in the Majors.   So it's a tough course, challenge for the week, and I like the challenge, and we'll see what happen on the weekend.   I play my best on the weekend. 

Q.   What makes you such a good putter? 
INBEE PARK:   I think I'm good at judging the speed and the up‑‑ the breaking on the greens. 

Q.   So if your dad flies from Korea you better tell him to bring a swim suit. 
INBEE PARK:   I don't think ‑‑ it's too far to come for one day, I don't know. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, so much, Inbee for coming in. 
INBEE PARK:   Thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT