SUNRISE LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY AUDI
October 27, 2012
Inbee Park
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome our leader, Inbee in the interview room, and also Suzann Pettersen, who is in second place two shots back.   First of all, thank you ladies for joining us today.   Congratulations, and great rounds by both of you.   First of all, since we have you both in here together, why don't each one of you just talk about your rounds and what was working well for you today and then also what was most impressive about the other person's round that you witnessed today while playing in the same group.
INBEE PARK:   I don't know.   I think today probably was almost perfect for me.   I hit the ball great and putted really good today.   So couldn't ask for better weather.   It was a perfect day.   The conditions of the golf course was perfect.   I mean I was able to go at every pin, so I was able to play aggressive, and play with Suzann, I mean she hit the ball perfect.   I mean not everything fell for her, but she played really fantastic, so I'm looking forward to tomorrow.
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yeah.   Today was another great round of golf.   Feeling very good.   I think it was all three of us that played pretty good and we kind of managed to kind of keep ourselves kind of keep the momentum going from hole to hole.
It was kind of tough at times to play with Inbee that chipped in from everywhere.   I think Inbee had two eagles, but it was great because we pushed each other and you just kind of pushed the limits and it was great.   Inbee played fantastic today, 8‑under, so flawless. 
THE MODERATOR:   Suzann, as you were talking about, take me through that sixth hole and watching the two of them both chip in for eagle and then you had your own shot to play after that. 
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Well, walking up there and then we saw one ball that was kind of just off the green and Brian was like, yeah, we'll take that because Inbee saw the other lie.   I think Inbee had the most challenging lie from what I saw from up there. 
And I'm like, well, it's possible.   It takes a perfect shot, and I know Inbee can hit those flop shots, and it came out perfect, and from the minute that landed on the green that was right in the middle of the hole.   And Beanie looked at me and was like really?   And then she steps it up and chips it in.   I'm like, well, if I hadn't made birdie there, it would have felt like a double bogey, but I was just glad I made a birdie.   But it was fun to watch and it was kind of fun to first watch Beanie, her reaction on Inbee's kind of shot, kind of where did that come from and then she chips it in and looks at me like, what are you all doing.
THE MODERATOR:   Inbee, we talked about the weather conditions yesterday, but today it seems like the way they set up the golf course this was even more ideal for scoring.   What was it like playing out there and when you look up at the scoreboard and you see all of these low scores, is it what you guys expected when you teed off this morning.
INBEE PARK:   I didn't know all the tease were moved up.   And a couple of holes we were able to reach the green in two on the par‑5.   So moving up the tees were making ‑‑ it was perfect weather today.   It wasn't as hot and fast today.   So it was a lot better conditions today for everybody to concentrate.   So I think that's where the lower scores came in.
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for either Inbee or Suzann?

Q.   Suzann, your group just made three eagles, 40 birdies.   In this kind of group what do you feel about that?   Are you happy to play with these two great players or just, oh, my God, they are just hitting everything?
A.I feel like I contributed with six of those birdies, and that's about it. 
These other girls made quite a few eagles, but I like it when they kind of move around the course.   Today they made it very playable to reach par‑5s.   They tucked a few pins, moved a few tees up.   They want us to go low, and I think that's fun.   I think it's good for us, it's good for the crowd, and the fans want to see us go low.   So I want to see them do that more often, move around tees. 
You still have to hit perfect shots to kind of get to certain pins.   I mean it's not like it's a walk in the park.   So I think it's ‑‑ today was a great job by the rules guys.   I think they did a great job, and the conditions have been fairly similar all week, and who knows what tomorrow brings.   I mean it could be a hurricane or it could be like today.   I've seen it from all kinds of different angles.
THE MODERATOR:   They are calling for more wind tomorrow, possible rain.   How does that for each of you kind of suit you?   Are you looking forward to some challenging conditions in the final round or would you rather see it once again like this where conditions are perfect for scoring.
THE WITNESS:   I think it's ‑‑ it doesn't really matter to me.   I think we played three days in the perfect condition.   I think if it's a little tougher tomorrow, a little be challenging for everybody, too.   It's the same for everybody, so I don't really mind whether it's a good day or a bad day. 
THE MODERATOR:   You guys both see Yani is trailing four shots back of the lead.   What does it mean when she's that close in the hunt, especially here with the way the fans are and the way they root her on.
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   It's good to see her playing good, especially here in Taiwan in front of her own crowd.   I really don't care where she is, personally, but obviously good for the crowd and the tournament that she's up there, good for the media.   I'm happy to see that she's playing better.
We practiced, I know her really well.   We share ideas, we share thoughts, and it's kind of fun that we both kind of the games are starting to click.   And I guess we're playing together tomorrow, so I guess there will be a few more bets in the group.   I lost today shooting 66.   So that's no good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT