KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 6, 2013
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Fantastic round of golf and yesterday.   You've played quite a few rounds here at the Kraft Nabisco tournament course and haven't had the greatest success over the years.   What is the difference this year?   
INBEE PARK:   Well, I don't really‑‑ I think I played really good the last few years, but then I just didn't putt that well on these greens.   But this year it seems like I'm reading the breaks really good and the putts are rolling in, so I think that's been a big difference.  
   
 Q.   The front nine it was pretty calm conditions out there, but would you say you had a better back nine than front nine today considering the winds were higher?  
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, because I was really used to the wind after yesterday because we had a really similar wind to yesterday.   Today it was the same wind for me, exactly the same locations, so it was a lot easier to judge today than yesterday, so I was hitting better shots.   
   
 Q.   Does it just come naturally to you, this stroke, or have you worked on it to get to this point?  
INBEE PARK:   Well, I think I've always hitting the cross‑handed grip and always hitting the same stroke over the years.   
   
 Q.   These are not short putts, these are long‑range putts, so were even you at one point thinking this is going to be a great day?  
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, yesterday I was hitting shots a lot more closer, and today my putts were falling from long distance.   
   
 Q.   How was the ball‑striking by your standards today?  
INBEE PARK:   It was fine.   I mean, I didn't hit it that close, but I hit many greens and many fairways today, which is what I need on this golf course.   
   
 Q.   What did you hit on the 17th today?  
INBEE PARK:   A 7‑iron today, and it was actually a little bit of a mis‑shot, and I aimed a little more right, but I slightly pulled it and it ended up perfect.   
   
 Q.   This round of 67 coupled with yesterday's round, how much confidence do you have going into tomorrow?  
INBEE PARK:   Well, I feel really good about my swing and the stroke at the moment.   I feel really comfortable around this golf course, too.   That helps.   Three good rounds, and I just need another one tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   You told our broadcast team that your father said he would come and watch you play from Korea if you got to 8‑under but then you made a bogey and got to 7‑under.   Do you think he's on a plane right now?  
INBEE PARK:   I don't know.   I'm going to call him after we play today and see what he's up to.   They're definitely coming to Hawai'i.   
   
 Q.   I know that you sold your place here in the States you told me yesterday, and now Korea is your main home.   How often do you get to see your family?  
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, but my family comes to my tournaments around maybe four to five events per year, and I go back to Korea four or five times a year, so I see them maybe once a month.  
   
 Q.   Already with a U.S. Open trophy on your shelf, what would this one mean to you?  
INBEE PARK:   This one would mean a lot.   This is going to be the second major in my career, and it's just been a tournament I always wanted to win, and with the special ceremony jumping in the water, everybody just wants to do that, I think.   It just feels special.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT