SUNRISE LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY AUDI
October 26, 2012
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome one of our current leaders, Inbee Park into the interview room.   Congratulations.   Another solid round today, a 3‑under par 69, tied for the lead with Suzann Pettersen at 10‑under par.   Take me through that day of quite an exciting finish to the round that we all got to see.   What was working well for you, and I know it got off to a slow start, but then you got things going a little bit later in the round.   
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I think I had about two short putts missed early in the round.   I mean it was hard to get my momentum going after that.   And I finally did it and I made four birdies in a row on the Front 9 and the Back 9 I just didn't hit it any close.   So it was a little bit slow on the Back 9, but the last hole just makes everything really for giving.  
THE MODERATOR:   Take me through those four birdies that you had on the Front 9.   Like you said, a slow start, but all of a sudden things started going.   When you get on a roll like that, how confident do you get going each hole that the streak is going to continue?   
INBEE PARK:   At the first birdie, I made a putt, I think about a 15‑footer, and I wasn't really comfortable with the putter after missing two short putts, so I just needed that one putt to fall, and that fell and just gave me a lot of confidence after that.   And then I hit a couple shots close after that.   So four birdies was the highlight of the day today.  
THE MODERATOR:   On the 18th hole you and Yani exchanged yearly ‑‑ you were all impressed by those shots.   Can you just take me through watching that and what was that like when you hit it almost in and then to watch her?   
INBEE PARK:   It was a really exciting finish, especially for Yani, too, because she has a lot of fans, and she gave a lot of them a lot of surprise on the last hole.   So I was happy for her.   
It would have been great if either one of us or two of us would have went in, but it just didn't happen.   Maybe tomorrow.  
THE MODERATOR:   And what was your distance on that?   What did you hit in there?   
INBEE PARK:   120 pitching wedge.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Inbee?  
   
 Q.   With all the crowds following Yani today, was it more pressure?  
INBEE PARK:   No.   I think pressure is more on Yani because a lot of people are expecting her to play good.   I mean I felt that way in Korea last week.   It was kind of expected coming here that there is going to be a lot of fans for Yani.   It's her country and it's good.   I don't have much pressure.   I just go out there and have fun.  
   
 Q.   You played with Yani last week?   
INBEE PARK:   No.   
THE MODERATOR:   Inbee, the way you've been playing lately, you've put yourself up at the top of the money list and now you're starting to kind of close in on Stacy Lewis in the Rolex Player of the Year award.   What would it mean for you to win these types of honors, and having been out here for six years, to see yourself up there to finish at the top of these races, what does that mean to you.  
INBEE PARK:   I mean if I end up getting Player of the Year, I think that's the first time as a Korean.   I mean looking at all the Korean players playing, I thought there would have been ‑‑ somebody would have gotten that, but nobody got it, so I was really surprised with the result.   
If I would be the first one, it would be a really great honor and it would be a gift for me.  
   
 Q.   How would you describe your swing because a lot of texts are saying that you have one of the most easy swings on the LPGA Tour.   Tell us the secret.   
INBEE PARK:   I mean there is no secret.   I mean there is a lot of ‑‑ I mean not a lot of them, but some slow swingers out on the tour.   Ai is one of them as far as slow swingers.  
I think swinging slow and easy just prevents from the injury, I think, and it makes me play for longer and just for consistent, I think.  
   
 Q.   Do you copy your swing from anyone else like Ernie Els or anybody?  
INBEE PARK:   No.   
   
 Q.   What it be all right if a journalist will describe your swing like a Miss Easy Swing?   
INBEE PARK:   What is it?   Sorry.  
   
 Q.   Like Miss Easy Swing?  
INBEE PARK:   Easy swing?   
THE MODERATOR:   You know how they call like Ernie Els "The Big Easy."   They would call you miss easy swing.  
INBEE PARK:   Oh.   I think that's a good thing.   (Laughs).  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT