SUNRISE LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY AUDI
October 25, 2012
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   All right.   We'd like to welcome our current leader, Inbee Park.   Congratulations.   A great round, 7‑under par today.   Take me through your day out there and what was working well for you.   
INBEE PARK:   Obviously with that number, everything went really well today.   I hit the ball great.   I mean I hit a lot of short irons in, so I hit a lot of shots close and I was able to make a lot of birdies and I holed the 15th hole first today.  
THE MODERATOR:   It's been a remarkable second half of the season for you.   Before last week you had gone ten straight tournaments with a Top 10 finish, two victories over that stretch.   What has it been about your game that's been working so well that you've been able to be so consistent.  
INBEE PARK:   Earlier in the season I was hitting the ball ‑‑ I stayed probably the same as right now, but I wasn't putting as well earlier in the year, and I was just trying to find the right putter and the right stroke for me.   And I finally find it the middle of the season and it started working really good and I'm rolling the ball great.  
THE MODERATOR:   As I talked about the two victories that you had, one of them was two weeks ago in Malaysia.   To put together two wins in a season is something that you haven't done before in your career.   How special would that be for you to be able to accomplish that feat.  
INBEE PARK:   Yeah.   I mean that was a big accomplishment for me, and a lot of really a lot of confidence boost for me, and I mean it's the first time that's happened for my sixth year on the tour, and I'm really happy for that and really want to give myself credit for that.   And hopefully it's going to be a better one next year and two years later.   I just want to improve myself every year.  
THE MODERATOR:   Can you also just take me through the conditions out there today?   We're used to a lot of wind and it didn't seem like there was as much wind as we're used to.   How did that affect play today?   
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I mean coming to this golf course we were expecting a lot of wind and I was prepared for it.   But today it was really calm and a very nice day.   So it was really good scoring condition out there.   So I was able to go actually at the pins, a lot of the pins.   We were able to attack a lot of the pins, so I think that was making the play a lot easier.  
   
 Q.   Could you please compare last year to your play today?  
INBEE PARK:   Overall or ‑‑  
   
 Q.   Overall, yes.   
INBEE PARK:   Last year I wasn't hitting the ball as solid as this year, and my ball striking skills have been improved a lot from last year.  
I think putting ‑‑ putting I think has gotten a little better, but mostly the ball striking gotten a lot better than last year.  
   
 Q.   It seems Yani has a home advantage to get the champion or not?  
INBEE PARK:   I think she does.   She has a lot of fans here, and I know she's really comfortable with this golf course.   I think she does have an advantage.   She won here last year, and she likes this golf course.   And she played well last week, too.   So I think she has a good opportunity.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT