EVIAN MASTERS PRESENTED BY SOCIETE GENERALE
July 28, 2012
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome Inbee Park, one of our current co‑leader into the interview room.   Congratulations.   Great round today.   2‑Under par puts you tied for the lead with Stacy heading into tomorrow as final round. 
Just take me through your day out there and what was working well for you.
INBEE PARK:   Today was a tough day.   Out of all three days, the playing conditions were the toughest today because of a little bit of rain and wind. 
But really satisfied the way I hang in there today.   Still putted good today, so I'm really happy. 
MODERATOR:   Overall, how much did the conditions change the golf course compared to the first two days? 
INBEE PARK:   It played a little bit longer, and I think it was most like concentration‑wise it was tough to concentrate out there. 
So, yeah, I think I did pretty good today.
MODERATOR:   You've had a pretty solid season so far.   What would it mean for you to be able to capture another victory on the LPGA Tour tomorrow? 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, it's been a while since I won, and I'm really wanting to win.   I'm really excited where I put myself, especially at this event, because I never play good at this event.   So looking forward to tomorrow.
MODERATOR:   I know you said yesterday you were finally starting to figure out these greens in your fifth try here.   What's been the biggest key to learning them, and how much has that helped you this week? 
INBEE PARK:   I think most likely it's like experience.   I learn from my mistakes last five years, and it's working better this year.   Very happy with that.
MODERATOR:   Questions. 

Q.   Great round from you.   Well done.   Good play all week.   Can you just tell us a little bit about Hyo Joo Kim?   You've heard of her before, the Korean amateur? 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I've heard about her before.   A lot of Korean medias and Korean people talking about her.   I heard she's really good, but I've never really got to play with her.   I really don't know what her game a like.

Q.   But are a lot of girls in Korea, do you see a lot of girls really good that age?   She's 17. 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I think so.   And especially like KLPGA, there is a lot young players playing really good out there and a lot of young girls playing good in Korea.

Q.   When you say a lot of young girls playing really good, would you have 50 with scratch handicaps that age or more? 
INBEE PARK:   50?   I would say it's got to be more.   I really don't know like population for junior golfer in Korea, so it's really tough to say. 
MODERATOR:   We've seen a lot of players come over and have had success.   To see a 17yearold up there right in the mix...
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I mean, she's won professional tournaments twice or three times this year, so I think she's really proven that she's good and she can compete out here. 
Looking forward to tomorrow, yeah. 
MODERATOR:   Overall your game this year, how much more confident have you been playing and how happy are you with how you've been able to play so far? 
INBEE PARK:   I'm happy with the ball‑striking this year.   Hitting the ball much better and further and straighter this year, so I think that helped me a lot with the scoring.

Q.   How are you hitting the ball further? 
INBEE PARK:   I think just better impact.   I mean, I'm not hitting as much of a cut this year, so I think I gained a little bit more distance like that. 
MODERATOR:   Any more questions for Inbee?

Q.   (No microphone.)
INBEE PARK:   I mean, first day I went for it and I went in the water.   I really learned from my mistake.   I had a perfect lie and only 200 to hole, so it was no question about it. 

Q.   What did you hit on that second shot?
INBEE PARK:   4‑rescue.

Q.   4‑rescue.   I don't hit my 4‑rescue that well.   (Laughter.)
INBEE PARK:   It was a great shot.   (Laughter.) 

Q.   It was a great shot. 
MODERATOR:   All right.   Well thank you very much, Inbee.   Best of luck tomorrow. 
INBEE PARK:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT