U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 6, 2012
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How do you feel about your round today? 
INBEE PARK:   Just like yesterday, I hit the ball great today, gave a lot of chances out there, but I left a couple out there, but I'm really satisfied with the way I played today, and just keep up this ball striking I'll be good.
Just stayed really patient with the greens over here, I think it's possible.

Q.   You said missed opportunities.   Where did it happen?   Did you not hit it close enough?   Did you miss putts?
INBEE PARK:   I mean I hit a lot of good shots out there, but about like 15, 20‑footers out there a lot of them out there I just didn't make any of them.
But still, just giving myself a lot of chances is good out here, and just keep doing that and it'll just fall one day.

Q.   You're one stroke off the lead.   Is there anything in your mind that's reminding you of Interlachen at all?
INBEE PARK:   I mean I think they're a little bit different.   I mean with the no rain this week I think it's a little bit similar to Interlachen the fairways playing a little hard and the greens getting a little bit firmer, but the greens over here are really similar, I think, because they have a lot of breaks and they have a lot of mounds, so I think that reminds me a little bit of Interlachen.

Q.   More specifically, I meant how you felt when you were playing Interlachen and that was a championship that you won.   Is there something that's clicking like it did at Interlachen?
INBEE PARK:   It was so a long time ago.   You know, I think I was in similar position after second round, and I'm really happy the way I'm positioned right now.   Still a lot of golf to play out there, so just stay patient and I'll be good.

Q.   What's your game plan for tomorrow?   Is it just the way it has been?
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, definitely.   I mean keep up the ball striking, and just I think I had maybe too much pace on the putts today, so a little bit more speed on the putts ‑‑ I mean a little less speed on the putts.   I think that will be good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT