CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 23, 2012
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  KELLY THESIER:   I'd like to welcome Inbee Park into the interview room.   Congrats on a great round today, a 4‑under round.   Take us through your day and tell us what was working well for you out there?   
INBEE PARK:   Today was like the day nothing really went bad.   I mean, I hit a lot of fairways and greens, and I was able to hole the putts that I needed.   I still left a couple out there, but it's always like this.   I'm really satisfied with the way I played today, and hopefully three more days like this will be good.   
KELLY THESIER:   Everyone seems to be talking about how the course has played differently today with the rain.   Do you think the rain helped or hurt your game today?   
INBEE PARK:   Well, I don't really care about the weather because everybody has to deal with the weather and everybody is in the same situation.   I try not to get that in my mind and just try to focus on my game.   
The course played a little bit longer than the practice rounds, so I put longer clubs in.   But at the end of the day, it ended up really nice, so it was almost going the regular distance at the end of the day.   
KELLY THESIER:   This seems to be a familiar spot for you, especially in the past seven events.   You've got seven Top 10 finishes.   So how important is it to start low early on and how much confidence does it give you going into tomorrow and the rest of the week?   
INBEE PARK:   Starting low, you just put yourself in a really good position going into the weekend.   If you're too far behind going into the weekend, it's really tough to shoot a low number on the weekends.   But you're really confident with your game and you put a low score in the first two rounds, that gives you a lot of confidence so you can do better.  
   
 Q.   You're on a super roll right now.   What do you attribute that to?   
INBEE PARK:   I've been hitting the ball really good.   I don't really think about this is my eighth week in the Top 10 or seventh week in the Top 10.   I try to not think about that and just play week by week.   That's been working really good.   I've been hitting it really good and putting it really good, so I think that helped.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the greens?   Some of them are a little severe.   If you get on the wrong side of them, do you obviously keep that in mind, trying to stay below the hole on a lot of those greens?   
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, you have to put yourself in a really good position on your second shots to give yourself an uphill putt.   Because some of these downhill putts, you can't really stop them.   
The front nine has a lot of severe greens, and I think the back nine is really scorable.   I think you really got to be careful on the front nine to put yourself in the right position and keep your score on the front nine.  
   
 Q.   Just wondering, how familiar are you with Lydia Ko who was born in Korea and now lives in New Zealand.   She's out there now 4‑under through nine holes.   Have you had a chance to play with her at all or met her?   
INBEE PARK:   No, I haven't had a chance to meet her or play with her.   But I've heard she's really good.   She's had a really great amateur career, so...  
   
 Q.   You mentioned you left a couple shots out there and who doesn't.   At number 6 I think you had a short putt left out.   
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, on number 6 on the par‑5 I gave myself a really good opportunity, but I missed that putt.   It happens.   So hopefully tomorrow I'll give myself a lot more opportunity for a birdie, so I can make more birdies tomorrow.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT