U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
May 30, 2019
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How did you find the golf course today?
INBEE PARK: It was actually a little bit breezy in the morning.  So I played one round in the morning and it wasn't breezy at all, but I was surprised with the wind in the morning.  But I think it really cooled things down so it was actually nice being out there today.
I hit the ball really good today.  I hit a lot of fairways and greens.  I almost could have made, maybe, two or three more putts out there.  But except for that, I think it's been a quite solid round.
Q. Do you like where you're positioned?
INBEE PARK: Yeah, I mean, under par start is always good.  Just keep that ball striking going for the next three days and hopefully, I can hole some more putts.
Q. Does this course remind you of any other previous Open sites?
INBEE PARK: I really think it's different to all of them that we've played in the last ten years or so.  It's quite different.  It really reminds me a little bit of Florida golf courses, like Naples, like where we play CME.  Just a little bit more hard and faster.
Q. The putts that you feel the like you could have made, was it just a read situation?  Difficult to read?
INBEE PARK: Yeah.  I mean, with the greens here and a little bit of wind, gets a little bit tricky.  And, yeah, I mean the hole locations were not in, like, flatter spots so, I mean, there were a lot of breaks at the hole.
A couple of them I just read it wrong.  A couple of them I probably just stroked it a little bit awkward.  Yeah, just a little bit here and there.  I think I definitely could have made a few more, but it's okay.
Q. How hungry are you to win another one of these?
INBEE PARK: How hungry?  Pretty hungry.  I would love to have another Major trophy in my memorabilia.  I think that would be great.
Q. What's the most difficult aspect of this course?
INBEE PARK: I think it's the second shots into the greens.  It's just hard to manage how much release it's going to get.  And a lot of holes have -- looks like as everything falls away from the hole so it's trying to get close to the hole is always quite difficult.
The distance control has been quite difficult.
Q. Is this course a worthy test for a U.S. Open, do you think?
INBEE PARK: I think so.  I mean, I think if it was a little tougher off the tee, I think it would have made it much tougher.  But second shots and on is definitely quite a good test.  I just think with not much rain here, I don't think they could have grown the rough here.  So yeah.
Q. Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT