RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 29, 2011
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Inbee, thank you very much for coming in. Great round of 64 today, 8-under par, currently leading the championship. How did the round go today if you could just start with some general comments. 
 INBEE PARK: It was a very solid day. I putted really good out there, and I hit it really good out there. Really happy with the way I played today and looking forward to the next two days.
 THE MODERATOR: Are you surprised how calm the wind has been the last two days? 
 INBEE PARK: Yeah, the wind has been really nice to us until now, but we'll see the next two days.
 THE MODERATOR: You've played this championship a few times. It is quite unusual for a links course to be like this, isn't it? 
 INBEE PARK: It is. At the moment it's really scorable golf course right now, but links golf course, you really don't know what's going to happen the next two days.
 THE MODERATOR: Would you be surprised if it doesn't get a little bit windier? 
 INBEE PARK: I think we might get at least one day with the wind.
 THE MODERATOR: You came in here having finished tied 6th at the U.S. Open, so you're obviously confident coming into this tournament.
 INBEE PARK: Yeah, it was been a good season and really satisfied with the way I'm playing right now. The U.S. Open gave me a lot of confidence, so I'm looking forward to it. 

 Q. Can you talk about Se Ri and how she's motivated you?
 INBEE PARK: Se Ri, not just to me but to a lot of young golfers in Korea. I think she influenced a lot of them. She's up there with me, and I'm really happy the way she played and really looking forward to playing with her. 

 Q. When you were growing up you obviously respected her. Do you think you would be here without Se Ri? 
 INBEE PARK: I don't know, probably not. But she's been playing good ten years ago, but still she's playing good, so it's really surprising the way she's done it. It's just very good.

 Q. Was she the first player in Korea to create headlines?
 INBEE PARK: In the U.S., yes, I think. 

 Q. So you yourself, you've actually lived in America for quite a long time?
 INBEE PARK: I've lived in America about ten -- close to ten years now, yeah. 
 THE MODERATOR: Could I get the details of the birdies, please, and the very few bogeys. 
 INBEE PARK: I holed a 20-footer on No. 1. I hit 8-iron into it. 
 2, I hit 50-degree wedge to about ten feet, made that one. 
 4th, I think I hit A-wedge there to about ten feet.
 Par-5, 6th, I hit 3-wood second shot, and I was just off the green short, and I two-putted from there.
 And the 7th, I hit A-wedge again and then to about eight feet there, made that one.
 Birdie on 8, I hit 8-iron to about five feet, four feet. 
 Bogeyed the 12th, missed a driver to the right, and second shot rescue into the bunker, then just hit it out of there and two-putted from there. 
 Birdied the 14th, I hit it on in two with a 5-wood -- 3-wood, sorry, and then two-putted, about 30 feet.
 16, 5-wood off the tee, 20 feet, made that one. 
 18 I was in the bunker. Second shot was 5-wood. I was in the short right bunker and then hit it to about five, six feet?

 Q. Before you came here, had you ever heard any of the stories about how hard Carnoustie was?
 INBEE PARK: Yeah, I heard a lot about it, and it was one of the toughest golf courses we would play all year, and it's seemed nice to us so far.

 Q. The fact that you were out in 30 today, that must be quite a surprise?
 INBEE PARK: I think it is. I think it's still really good scoring out there and really happy with it. 
 THE MODERATOR: Inbee, thank you very much. Good luck tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT