EVIAN MASTERS PRESENTED BY SOCIETE GENERALE
July 29, 2012
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   It's my pleasure to welcome our 2012 Evian Masters champions, Inbee Park, to your winner's press conference here at Evian.   Congratulations.  
INBEE PARK:   Thank you.  
MODERATOR:     What a wild day on the leaderboard.   There were a number of different leaders.   You were able to finish the tournament at the top.   Tell us how it feels.  
INBEE PARK:   After yesterday, I mean, there was a lot of players that was in contention, so I knew that I have to shoot a good number today out there.  
It looks like it wasn't going to happen until the middle of the round.   But at the end I had a really strong finish to finish the round, so it was a great putting day today.  
MODERATOR:   Can you just talk about how good it feels to be a winner again.   You won the 2008 U.S. Women's Open, and at least on the LPGA you haven't won since.   
INBEE PARK:   Right, right.   
MODERATOR:   How good does it feel?   
INBEE PARK:   How would I describe in words?   It feels great.   It's been four years.   It felt more than four years.   Just really happy.   
MODERATOR:   How satisfying was it to win the event with a birdie on 18 and not have to worry about making a par putt?   
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I mean, yesterday and today when I was playing, I was thinking, What would I do on 18 if I was leading by one or two or if I'm tied with somebody?   
My plan was to go in three shots, and that really worked out well on the last hole.  
MODERATOR:   Let's go through your scorecard, birdies and bogeys.  
INBEE PARK:   No. 3 was a bogey.   
MODERATOR:   What happened there?   
INBEE PARK:   I hit my second shot over the green, and then I chipped it on about 15 feet; missed that putt.  
No. 5, hit gap wedge in about 15 feet; made that putt.  
No. 7, yeah, hit gap wedge also about 12 feet; made that one.  
No. 9, hit my second shot to the left just short of the bunker, and then hit a chip shot about 10 feet and made that.  
No. 10, yeah, also a gap wedge.   Hit it to about seven, eight feet.   
No. 11 was a bogey.   Hit my second shot into the bunker on the right.   Then I hit it short again, and then put it on and one putted.   
13, hit my pitching wedge about four feet to the hole.   
No. 16, birdie.   Sand wedge, ten feet.  
17, gap wedge, three feet, four feet.   
No. 18, sand wedge to about 20 feet, 25 feet.  
MODERATOR:   Three birdies to close the round and become the Evian champion.   When you were on 16 tee, did something changed that you felt you could birdie your way in to win?   
INBEE PARK:   With a good tee shot on 15 I knew I had a chance, a good shot at birdie.   Especially 17 and 18 were really short hole, so I knew that it was possible.   I knew that a lot other players can birdie also, so I knew I had to finish strong.  
MODERATOR:   How amazing was it to see the skydiver coming down with the Korean flag and then drape you in the flag?   
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, it feels great, especially this is the only event that does it.   I feel really special.   In the Olympics when I was watching all the athletes have their flags on when they had a medal, I wanted to do that also.   I did it today, so I'm very happy.  
   
 Q.   A reporter that was with your group today said he hasn't seen anybody putt the way you putted today.   Was there something about your putting stroke that felt good?  
INBEE PARK:   This green is really tough to putt, and I really had tough time last five years putting over here and didn't play good over here.   I was not really confident with the greens.  
This year I came and the greens were a lot quicker than last five years.   I like the fast greens, so I think that really suited me as well.  
MODERATOR:   Next year when you return here it'll be in September, a different name, and you'll be defending at a major.   How does that feel?   
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I'll feel really special playing this event as a defending champion.   I'm really excited for this tournament, because they're redoing all the golf course and all that to make it a major.   
I think this is a well deserved tournament to be a major, so looking forward to next year.   
MODERATOR:   Questions for Inbee Park?   
   
 Q.   What makes it so special winning here?   
INBEE PARK:   I think it's just this place is really beautiful and everything is in pink.   This event, everything just goes well this week.   With the lake and everything, I just love this place.   
To be able to play good at this event after six years is really special.   
   
 Q.   Next year not only the name is gonna change, also some significant changes to the course.   I think you can see it over there; there are a lot changes.   Are you looking forward to that, or in your opinion it should be as it is?  
INBEE PARK:   I think a little bit of change will be really good on this golf course.   Some holes are really hilly, so if it's a major I think a little bit of change will be more challenging.   And all the other golfer really like it.   I think it'll be really good golf course.   
   
 Q.   Can you confirm before this you had five international wins in total?  
INBEE PARK:   Uh‑huh.  
   
 Q.   How does it rank amongst them all?  
INBEE PARK:   I got to say it's‑‑ I mean, winning U.S. Open as a first win was great.   This one and U.S. Open has got to be really up there in the top.  
MODERATOR:   You've had a lot of the success playing on the Japan LPGA.   Talk about your decision to play more over there in the last couple years and how good it feels to come back to the LPGA and win again.   
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I mean, I wasn't playing good on the LPGA Tour after the win in the U.S. Open.   After that I was just trying to find a place that I felt more comfortable.   
But I was never going to give up LPGA.   The more I play over in Japan, the more‑‑ I was getting confidence over there.   Playing over here with that confidence helped me a lot.   
Yeah, I have a lot more friends on the LPGA Tour and I been on the tour long here.   I really feel comfortable on the LPGA Tour.   I really like playing.  
MODERATOR:   What are your plans for next week and moving forward?   Going back to Korea or the United States?   
INBEE PARK:   Going back to Korea tomorrow and coming back to United States on Sunday.  
MODERATOR:   Thank you, Inbee, for coming in.   Congratulations on a fantastic win today.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT