EVIAN MASTERS PRESENTED BY SOCIETE GENERALE
July 27, 2012
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   First off, congratulations, great round, 8‑under par.   Big difference from yesterday.   What was the biggest difference in your game?  
INBEE PARK:   It was the par‑5s that cost me yesterday because I have made three bogeys on the par‑5s yesterday.   Well, I was going for it, and most of the time it gave me a lot of trouble.   I tried to play a little bit more conservatively today on the par‑5s, and that really worked out well.   
And over the five years I had really problems with the greens because I couldn't read them and I just couldn't putt around this golf course.  
Today I putted great.   I think that was why I was able to shoot a low number.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel pretty good about your game?   Even with the way you shot yesterday, did you feel a score like this might be possible?  
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I mean, a lot of people had great scores yesterday.   Greens are a little bit quicker this year, so thought it might play a little bit different this year.  
Lengthening the course, and I think a little bit harder, harder on the ‑‑ the (indiscernible) are a little bit harder today.   Playing in the afternoon, so that gave me extra distance to go for it in the par‑5s.  
   
 Q.   As you were saying they lengthened some of the holes.   There have been some slight changes getting ready for next year when this will be much bigger.   Is it playing much different?  
INBEE PARK:   Um, I actually think it's playing similar except for the greens.   Greens got a lot quicker.   
   
 Q.   Knowledge of the greens everybody says helps.   Is that the biggest thing?  
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, definitely.   It took me five years.   Yeah, took me a lot of time to get to know these greens.  
   
 Q.   At the top of the leaderboard again heading into the weekend, what are the biggest keys for you?  
INBEE PARK:   I think it's mostly putting good.   I think getting comfortable with the putting around this golf course, because in some places are really quick, some places are really slow, some places breaks a lot, and some places just doesn't.  
It's really tricky, these greens, so it's getting used to the greens.   
   
 Q.   Thank you very much.   
INBEE PARK:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT