KIA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY J GOLF
March 28, 2010
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DAMIAN SECORE: How was it today.
 INBEE PARK: The greens got bumpy in the afternoon and it was tough to play. My putting was better today, a lot of birdies. 

 Q. What was going well for you? 
 INBEE PARK: Just -- I think I missed one green today and hit every green and putted very well today. 

 Q. Any long ones? 
 INBEE PARK: No, not really. I made eagle on No. 3 but it was, what, 6, 7-footer? It was mostly my long shots that were good. I was making the putts. 

 Q. Talk about your start: Birdie, birdie, eagle, great way to start. What's your mindset after that? 
 INBEE PARK: It was a great start; it was tough to beat. Just good start, and I forget about it, just think to start over again, next 15 holes, just play as good as you can and see what happens.

 Q. Have you reached 3 in two at any other time this week? 
 INBEE PARK: No, today was the first day. I hit 3-wood. I hit 5-woods, and laid it up short, and today was the pin that I wanted to go for it, and the drive was on the right position, so that's why I went for it. 

 Q. Did you feel like you had to be aggressive today? 
 INBEE PARK: Yeah, I mean, nothing to lose. I played good on the first day but next two days I didn't really play that good, so I knew it was going to come sometime, and it did. It was good. 

 Q. Was your approach and mindset to be playing for second place, trying to put yourself in contention for second? 
 INBEE PARK: Well, I don't know. My mental coach yesterday told me that, "Inbee, I think you should play for win," and I was like, "Well, we're 11 strokes apart!" 
 So that's what I did, and it went really well. 

 Q. Who is your mental coach? 
 INBEE PARK: She's in Korea. 

 Q. Talked to her on the phone? 
 INBEE PARK: Yeah, I talked to her on the phone and she said that for the first time. She never just told me to play for the win before, but she said yesterday, when I was 11 strokes apart, so I thought, okay. 

 Q. You had two low rounds and then two so-so rounds. What was the difference? 
 INBEE PARK: Yesterday No. 14 I made a double on it and it wasn't -- the shots I hit into was great, but it pitched on the pin and it released a little more than I thought, and it got on the worst lie I could get, and that hole threw me away, and I just got punished too much with the good shots. 

 Q. Winning the U.S. Women's Open at such a young age, 19, how does that set up for your career? Do you feel extra pressure, or certain expectations?
 INBEE PARK: Not really. Having a big win on a big tournament is good for me, and I have that done, so I don't need to do that anymore. 
 That was good for me, I got my major tournament and keep playing well. I don't feel any pressure. 

 Q. Do you know Hee Kyung?
 INBEE PARK: Yeah. 

 Q. How well do you know her? 
 INBEE PARK: I play with her couple times last year in Korea. 

 Q. Is it surprising that she is running away like this? 
 INBEE PARK: No, actually she's a solid player and looking how she played the first two days, I knew that she would be -- she won't play bad, she won't have, like, 5-over, 6-over. I knew she was going to play solid. 

 Q. How impressed are you with the fact that she is double digits under par on this course? 
 INBEE PARK: The score is impressive, she is putting good around this golf course, which is tough to do. That's what I did today. 
 If I did this two days before, it could have been great, but I like it. It's as good as I could have done in this tournament and today. 

 Q. (No microphone.) How have you learned from that? Especially mentally?
 INBEE PARK: When it gets windy it's tough to grab my club on the ground, and even when I'm practicing swing I have to not grab my club, and it's very tough, bad memories. 

 Q. Is it in the back of your mind? 
 INBEE PARK: A little bit, yeah, when I'm putting on the slope or putting with the wind, yeah. 

 Q. I guess a mental coach helps with that? 
 INBEE PARK: I really haven't asked her for that yet, so maybe. 

 Q. Thanks, Inbee. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT