U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 29, 2008
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







FULL AUDIO INTERVIEW

  
Q. Can you talk a little bit about how you feel right now?
 INBEE PARK: I feel very, very happy. Really don't know what's happening right now. I have no idea what's happening right now.
 I  
am very honored to win this championship as a first win for my  
career. And hopefully there will be a lot more coming up. 
  
But I'm very honored and this is a very special tournament for me and  
I won't forget this moment. 
 
  
Q. You ever been doused by two bottles of Bud before?
 INBEE PARK: No, obviously not, because this is the first time I'm winning as a professional. So winning the first tournament as a professional, U.S. Women's Open is the biggest honor I'll ever have.
 
  
Q. (Inaudible.)
  
INBEE PARK: Just my friend Jeong Jang and I.K. Kim. 
 
  
Q. When you watched Se Ri Pak 10 years ago had you taken up golf  
prior to when she won that or was that just starting?
 INBEE PARK: It was about two days after she won this championship in 1998. My parents were really big fans of golf and they were watching it. I had no idea why they were watching like 3 o'clock in the morning golf. I didn't know what that was. But just watching it, it was just so big in Korea and a lot of people picked up golf after that. And I was just one of them. And in ten years I'm here winning this event, it's very special.
 
  
Q. You got your first clubs then a couple days after?
  
INBEE PARK: Yes, yes, I did. 
 
  
Q. Did you know who Se Ri was?
 INBEE PARK: Well she was very famous back in Korea, so I knew who she was. But that was the first time I'm -- that I was watching golf on TV, so I thought it was a pretty good sport and it looked very interesting, so I just started playing golf after that.
 
  
Q. How much scoreboard watching did you end up doing today and  
how hard was that to keep your nerves about you when you saw the gap  
widening?
 INBEE PARK: On the back nine pretty much every hole there was a scoreboard there. And I am one of the persons who watches the score boards all the time. And I just did the same thing I always do. And I don't think it bothered me too much. It gave me motivation to stay on the top, so.
 
  
Q. You came off and someone was hugging you. Was that your  
mom?
  
INBEE PARK: Yes, it was my mom.
 
  
Q. What's her name?
  
INBEE PARK: Song Kim.
 End of FastScripts 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT