U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 27, 2008
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







FULL AUDIO INTERVIEW

  
Q. You have to love where you are right now. 
 INBEE PARK: Yes, thank you very much. I played very well today. Very solid. Except for the first two bogeys earlier in the round, almost it was a perfect round for me. And I hit a lot of good shots and good putts today, so.
 
  
Q. Minus four today, there aren't a lot of people that are going  
to match that. What worked for you?
 INBEE PARK: Today, like I said, just everything was really good. Just couple mistakes earlier in the round and after that I had a really good round. Good tee shots, good second shots, and good putts.
 
  
Q. Are you comfortable watching your name on that leaderboard?
  
INBEE PARK: I got to be. It's a very nice place to be and  
I'm glad there's a lot of people coming out to watch and it's a very  
good tournament. I love it. 
 
  
Q. You do well at USGA events. Is it something about the  
harder courses that you like?
  
INBEE PARK: Yes, I like challenging golf courses and I like how  
USGA sets up the courses and it's really a lot of fun and a really  
good test for the game. 
 
  
Q. What's the most important thing about shooting a low score  
here? An awful lot of people are hitting greens in regulation  
but not making a lot of putts?
 INBEE PARK: Yes, there are a lot of breaks on the greens and they moved a couple tees up today and the course played a lot more fun today because of those tees.
  
And it's just, just be careful with the downhill putts and just try to  
be on the right places with the second shot so you get a good uphill  
putt and that's how you do it. 
 
  
Q. How about just going over your birdies and bogeys with us. 
 INBEE PARK: Okay, on No. 2 I made an eagle.
  
5, I made bogey. 
  
6, bogey.
 
  
Q. Go back to 2. 
 INBEE PARK: 2, I hit a 5-wood on the second shot and about 15 feet putt. Made that one.
  
Number 5, I made a bogey. Hit my five rescue to the right bunker  
and didn't get up-and-down from there. 
  
6, another my second shot another one went to the -- well actually it  
was my driver was left and it was in the trees. I tried to draw  
around the trees, it didn't draw too much, so it ended up in the right  
bunker, didn't get up-and-down from interest. 
  
Number 7, hit 9-iron about six feet. 
  
No. 9, 6-iron to about three feet. 
  
No. 12, 7-iron, 15 feet. 
  
17, 7-iron to about 10 feet. 
 
  
Q. That ninth hole a lot of people having trouble with that, but  
you got a birdie. That's like an extra shot. 
 INBEE PARK: Yes, it is. Yesterday I really played that hole very, very good yesterday and today. Yesterday I got a little bit unlucky with the bounce and just went over the top and made a good bogey from the back.
  
And the -- I kind of got a lesson from there yesterday and hit a good  
shot in there. It just ended up right by the hole. 
 
  
Q. Are you ready to be where you are?
  
INBEE PARK: Yes, I had a couple chances this year and I just  
didn't play good on the weekend. So hopefully this time, yes. 
 
  
Q. Are you a player that's always been able to shake off a bad  
hole or two and just kind of put it behind you and go forward?
 INBEE PARK: Sometimes I do, sometimes I don't. It's really depends on the day and it really depends on how you're playing and you really have a, you really got to have a good mental approach to overcome that. So I guess I did today.
 
  
Q. What made the difference today?
 INBEE PARK: I just felt really comfortable out there today with the eagle start it really made me comfortable and this course I really like this course very much. I think it's just my game, so. Yes.
 
  
Q. The eagle. That sort of sets up the whole next three  
hours, doesn't it?
 INBEE PARK: Yes, it does. And I was really, really happy with that eagle. Especially on a course like this, two shots is really, really a lot. So I was really happy with that.
 End of FastScripts 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT