KIA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY J GOLF
March 25, 2010
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: How did it go today?  
 INBEE PARK: I putted well today. It's a good start, going to be a good weekend.   
  
  Q. Do you feel good about getting in fairly early today? Seems like the breeze is picking up.   
 INBEE PARK: It looks like -- been here a couple days, looks like it's picking up in the afternoon, but we play in the afternoon tomorrow anyway. It will be the same for everybody, and I'm glad I played in the morning today, too, because I had a good start, so very happy.   
  
  Q. Talk about your putting. Did you make some long putts or consistent putts?   
 INBEE PARK: Not long, long putts, but overall I made the opportunities that I had and good par saves.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 INBEE PARK: It's rough, it's tough to get up and down so you have to putt good to make the par putts and the birdie putts, and if you're on the green it's really good so you have to concentrate hitting the green.   
  
  Q. Is there a good example of a great up and down for you today?   
 INBEE PARK: Yeah, I missed the fairways, and I chipped it out and had a couple of 100-yard shots, and hit it to 10 feet and made those couple times today.   
  
  Q. Where were those?   
 INBEE PARK: One of them was on No. 3, I think, and one of them was -- I was in the bunker on No. 17 and I hit it and it didn't go too far, and I made a par from there.   
  
  Q. Somebody had 6-under today. How do you think those scores are going to hold?   
 INBEE PARK: I think the course is a pretty challenging course, and 4-under I think will be around the scores.   
  
  Q. How did you feel about your game coming into this week? How were you playing?   
 INBEE PARK: I played couple tournaments before this in Japan.   
 I finish both second place finishes, and I was confident coming into this tournament.   
  
  Q. So you've been playing well?   
 INBEE PARK: I've been playing well.   
  
  Q. So the Japan tournaments were for the Japan Tour?   
 INBEE PARK: Yeah.   
  
  Q. Was one of them Okinawa?   
 INBEE PARK: Yeah, one was Okinawa.   
  
  Q. How close did you come to winning those?   
 INBEE PARK: Second tournament I really won that tournament but got a two-stroke penalty.   
  
  Q. What happened there?  
 INBEE PARK: It was on the putting green, I was trying to finish the putt, and I didn't address the ball but during my practice swing the ball moved, so I thought that wouldn't be a problem so I just finished it as it is.   
 And they thought -- the rules officials in Japan thought that I made the ball move in the process of making a practice swing, so I got a penalty.   
  
  Q. Were you upset about that?   
 INBEE PARK: I got the penalty after everything was done, so I was disappointed but what they say is what they said.  
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 INBEE PARK: Yeah, first time that happened.   
  
  Q. How did they determine, did they watch replays?   
 INBEE PARK: They watched a video.   
  
  Q. Are you going to be more careful now?   
 INBEE PARK: I think I got to be more careful. I guess it was a really good experience.   
  
  Q. Sounds like today's round is a continuation of how you've been playing.   
 A. Yeah.   
  
  Q. Did you change anything in the off-season?   
 INBEE PARK: No, I concentrated on my swing, putting and so forth, swinging, it's the same but I try to hit the ball more consistent, not much of a distance but more consistency, and that's working.   
  
  Q. Did you grow up in Las Vegas?   
 INBEE PARK: I came here when I was sixth grade to Florida and I lived there for four or five years and then moved to Las Vegas for a couple years.  
 Now I'm here in L.A. with my coach.   
  
  Q. Who is your coach?   
 INBEE PARK: Chong Paek, he's Korean. L.A. is where I spend most of my time these days.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 INBEE PARK: Orange County.   
  
  Q. He's an Orange County guy. Who is your coach again?   
 INBEE PARK: Chong Paek.   
  
  Q. Where does he teach?   
 INBEE PARK: West Ridge.  
  
  Q. On the penalty, anything like that happen to you before?   
 INBEE PARK: No, I haven't had anything like that before. I didn't address the ball, so I totally thought that wouldn't be a problem.   
  
  Q. So the ball moved. In your opinion why did the ball move?   
 INBEE PARK: There was a slope on the hole, the green. Who knows what made the ball move, it might be me, might be the slope.   
  
  Q. Had you won in Japan before?   
 INBEE PARK: No, I haven't.   
  
  Q. So that would have been your first?   
 INBEE PARK: Uh-huh.   
  
  Q. You said you were going to be more careful. Did you change anything in the approach? Is your set-up different?   
 INBEE PARK: No, I just be careful not to grab my club and get too close during my practice swings. As long as I call an official right after the ball moves, I think it's going to be fine.   
  
  Q. When was that tournament, Inbee?   
 INBEE PARK: Week and a half -- not last weekend but the weekend before.   
  
  Q. That was the Okinawa tournament?  
 INBEE PARK: No, that was in Kochi, right after the Okinawa.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT