U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 29, 2007
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  All right.  In-Bee Park, you had to play two holes this morning, parred the 17th and 18th holes.  Then you went out in and you only hit 8 fairways off the tee and fewer greens in regulation, but you putted better.  Tell us your analysis of your round? 
  IN-BEE PARK: Today I was having a hard time keeping the ball in the fairway with the driver today. But I was getting really good bounces in the rough, had good lies in the rough luckily. 



 So I was able to get the ball actually on the green or by the green.  And my short game was really good today.  So I was able to get up-and-down from the side of the greens and it was really good. 

 Q.  How glad are you to be finished with playing golf today? 
  IN-BEE PARK: Very, very glad. Because I think that it took us like 10 hours to play yesterday, so I think it was a lot shorter day today, so I'm very glad that we actually finished. 

 Q.  What sort of strategy are you going to pursue?  You're even par, that looks like a really great spot to be in with two rounds to go.  What are you going to be trying to do? 
  IN-BEE PARK: We're halfway there and there is a lot of golf out there to play and the holes are playing tougher and tougher. And I'll just stay patient out there and keep making a lot of pars and I think that will do it. 

 Q.  So many weather delays, we have already had one today and we'll probably have some more later on and certainly tomorrow the weather is going to be questionable.  How has that affected you and how do you think it's going to affect the rest of the field? 
  IN-BEE PARK: Well, I don't know. I think it's sometimes good and sometimes bad. Because sometimes people need some rest after playing maybe 18, 20 holes. And I don't know, if they get enough good warm-ups out there and then I think it should be good. And I hear a lot of thunder, but it's not raining, so it's not going to get wet or anything. So I think the course is going to be in good shape. 

 Q.  To be at even par, does that give you confidence going into the weekend? 
  IN-BEE PARK: Yeah, I'm just going to play as if I just started the round tomorrow. Because I'm right at the zero. So I think it will be good. 

 Q.  Do you sense the course getting tougher?  I mean the scores are up a little bit? 
  IN-BEE PARK: Yeah, greens are getting harder, faster. So I think around the greens I think we really got to be careful. 


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT