U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 28, 2007
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  RHONDA GLENN: In-Bee Park, 2-under par, 2 holes left to play. You're obviously pleased with the way you played today. 
  IN-BEE PARK: I had two birdies out there and it was really a fair test out there. The course was playing great. It was playing long, definitely. I putted well out there and hit the ball well, definitely got some up-and-downs around the greens that saved me some pars. So no bogeys yet. 



 RHONDA GLENN:  You're the first one I've talked to since we had the weather delay.  How did your game change between the morning and early afternoon when you were playing, then that long wait and playing again, how did your game change? 
  IN-BEE PARK: Well, my game didn't really change. I actually putted better on the back nine. 



 Condition-wise it was really -- they didn't get a lot of rain, so it didn't get wet or anything, so it was pretty much the same condition out there on the back nine. 
 RHONDA GLENN:  How did you pass that time during the weather delay? 
  IN-BEE PARK: Had lunch and talked with friends, enjoyed my time off, I guess. 



 RHONDA GLENN:  Talk on the cellphone or -- 
  IN-BEE PARK: We just had a talk with players. I didn't have a cellphone, I left it in the hotel room. 



 RHONDA GLENN:  You're going to have a pretty short night.  It's quarter to nine, you go home, you sleep, you have to be back here at seven to tee off and play two more holes.  Have you ever done that before? 
  IN-BEE PARK: I think I've done that a lot of times with the rain delays and everything. So I'm pretty used to it and I'll just go out there and be patient and just play my game. 

 Q.  Having that time off, do you go back over things you did, do you think too much, do you try to block the holes you already played out of your mine? 
  IN-BEE PARK: I played 9 and then there was a delay. So I just thought I would play -- think that I would play -- teeing off on No. 10 and playing a new game. So I think it worked out pretty good. 



 RHONDA GLENN:  Thank you so much.  Good luck tomorrow.  Good play. 


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT