HUGEL-AIR PREMIA LA OPEN
April 27, 2019
Inbee Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. All week long only missing four greens.  I think we all were jaw dropped with that second shot on 17.  I have to ask you what happened there?
INBEE PARK: Well, I just really wish that wasn't on air, but I guess it was.  Yeah, just my back was a little bit tight and I was just trying to swing a little bit less aggressive.  I think I just got too quick on the ball.  I don't know when was the last time I hit that kind of shot.
Yeah, it's been a great ball striking week this week.  All three days it's been really, really good.  I can't complain about the one bad shot, but that was really bad shot.  (Laughter.)
Q. When you hit the ball as well as you're hitting it and as solidly, how tough is it to stay patient on the greens when the putts aren't always dropping?
INBEE PARK: It's extremely hard to stay patient on these greens.  I really feel like I should be 15-under par easily by now.  These greens are just so complicated, and you can't be aggressive or it's either you leave it a foot short or you're five feet by.
It's really hard to get the speed right on these greens.  I kind of managed myself, just keep telling myself, Just don't be aggressive.  Don't be aggressive.  Doesn't matter you have a 5-footer; you can't be long.  That's what I been talking to myself.  Even if I try to leave it short, just keeps going.  Just one of those greens.
Q. I want to ask you about your putting again.  Do you work on it after the round or do you just say, Hey, this is...
INBEE PARK: I work on it just before the round usually, because after the round, especially in the afternoon, these greens get extremely bumpy.  I don't think it's a plus seeing your ball miss the hole all the time.
Yeah, like I said, it doesn't matter what distance, you just try to get away with the two-putt and try to get the speed right, which is really tough to do.
That's just been the tough task here.
Q. What would you compare these greens to in terms of previous tournaments you've played in?
INBEE PARK: I think it's just hard.  Probably one of the most toughest greens, because I think it's just not consistent.  I can deal with the fast greens because I have done that a lot.  I can't do fast and bumpy together.  Yeah, just really hard to do that.
So, yeah.
Q. So overall then, I know you said you felt like you should be 15-under par.  Are you frustrated or still...
INBEE PARK: You know, just the amount of shots I hit maybe inside ten feet this week is just so many of them and I've missed so many of them.
First day I think I hit 18 of 18 greens and like not anything more than took 20 feet.  Ball striking is good, and really trying to take that as an advantage.  You know, the more greens you hit and the more putts you're going to miss.  That's just a (indiscernible).
So just trying to take it, and under par on this golf course is always a good round.  Yeah, I mean, it seems like this green really suits me because I like do this on every other courses that I play this year with the putting and I have been missing a lot of putts.
Looks like we're on the (indiscernible) with other people.  So, yeah.
Q. What's your playing schedule after this?
INBEE PARK: San Francisco and back for US Open.
Q. Will you go to Korea?
INBEE PARK: Yeah, I play Korea for defending champion for match play.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT